All communication with the LL must be in writing so that you can get a paper trail together in case he decides to be stupid enough to sue. In your letter to him to cease and desist, do a step by step chronology of the events, just like you did in your post. Then, add the local tenant law. Finish with something like, "If I am forced to retain counsel, I will be seeking any and all attorney fees and costs incurred by me in the prosecution of this matter, in addition to any punitive damages for your harassment and ...." You get the point.

Ideally, yes. It would be great to have people with a complete blank canvas on the law until the judge explains it to them during instructions. Regardless, the judge goes over the law, what you can and cannot focus on, what is what etc, so by the time deliberations start the jury should have some knowledge.

Done (a few days ago)

I guess the bigger question is whether my wife has committed a crime:  this notary didn’t conjure these documents on their own.  So she must have induced this notary to do this.

Maybe she hit her head in the accident?

Give it back right now or grandma is gonna sue you!

our lease ends June 30

You are responsible for rent through June 30.   

In another state with a month-to-month rental agreement you would be due a refund in the amount of pro-rated rent between the time you delivered a clean and vacant apartment and the end of the month.

In this case, you kinda sorta broke the lease by moving out and not paying June 2026 rent.  Your landlord remedied their damages by taking possession and re-renting the apartment.

new tenant who confirmed they moved in on the 1st [of June 2026]

That allows you to tell your landlord to shove their June 2026 rent demand up their asses.
So tell 'em to fuck themselves.

No. The deal is for "quiet enjoyment" of the property. This does not mean actual absence of noise but that no one else is going to (or has the right to) enter the property. This is what they lease conveys.

Imagine the property rights as a bundle of sticks. When a lease is created the owner takes some of those sticks, those that relate to use of the property, and gives them to another person while they keep some of the sticks, those related to ownership of the property, for themselves. They can't give the same stick to two people, so any time they would use that stick for themselves or another person by moving someone new into the property they have to take that stick back first.

The guy moved in and has a lease, in order for the landlord to not owe that new tenant money for not passing along the stick promised in the contract they need to have first taken the stick back from the prior tenant. Whether or not money changes hands with the new tenant is official not the old tenant's problem. This is true even when the landlord moves family they never intend to charge rent to or moves in themself, the property is now occupied by someone else who has that "quiet enjoyment" therefore the old tenant can't have that "quiet enjoyment" therefore the old tenant can't be made to pay for that "quiet enjoyment".

They can't charge rent to 2 different people during the same time frame.

nope.. DO NOT do this - OP doesn't own the panel..  He would fuck up his chances of getting his money back if he does this..

BEST to follow the legal route - a judge will find in his favor, no question..

I believe she did, she told me her lawyer told her they’d only do that if she got two doctors notes saying she has pulmonary issues, so that’s why she had her lungs tested by a pulmonary doctor, but it came back with no lung issues.

That doesn't work that way, they can't just know its alcohol. They have to prove it is alcohol, and if they just go "Well we know its alcohol because xyz" unless xyz is we see "beer" written on the side then they are full of shit and 100% violated your 4th amendment rights.

Your insurance company should be handling this for you. Are they doing that?

Report the notary to their licensing board, which may be the Secretary of State.

Recipes can’t be copyrighted in the first place if they are just a basic list of ingredients and instructions.

this...  in spades.

make sure you've saved everything from your landlord.. in writing.  and make sure you reply IN WRITING.   

And make sure you can get hold of the electrician - even if you need to pay that guy to come back out...

your documentation on this can likely turn it into a slam-dunk of both treble damages AND an even bigger lawsuit if the landlord uses fraud like this as an excuse to evict you/refuse to renew...

No I dont know what state you're in. Why I said hard to believe instead of calling you a liar. 

But I needed 4 acres in Appalachia so I dont know how much more lenient you can get.

Doordash has already marked them in the system.

Your parents might be acting cold because they want you to learn from this but you still need proper legal help here. Municipal courts sometimes work different than regular criminal court - they might have different rules about when you qualify for public defender or maybe you need to formally request one at your first appearance instead of calling ahead. Show up to your court date and ask the judge directly about getting appointed counsel if you cant afford lawyer.

I will be doing all this first in the morning! Thank you.

Thank you! This was so helpful! I'm going to the city's animal control in the morning, then a walk-in clinic that can handle dog bites. If not, the ER. After I'll make a police report. Does that sound right?

you seem to be expecting reddidiots to have comprehension skills...

dude. this is fucking reddit.

You have no idea what state I'm in. If you do, feel free to point out laws contradicting my above statement.

It’s on me - I read the initial comment and just jumped to reply and wanted to help. All good, I’m glad they were able to recover it. If folks feel good about responding this way, I’m ok with it

a couple seconds long.

Likely falls under fair use if they are reporting/commentating/transforming it. You'll need to speak with a local copyright attorney for the best answer.

Get documentation all together of everything that you have and will be paying for, it all will be taken into consideration as well. I would make sure that all communication about this with mom is done through text/email as well

I'm sure it hurts that you got banned, but that part is mostly a dead issue legally. Businesses and platforms have the right to decide who can access them, and unless you evidence that the banned was illegal discrimination, there is not much you can do on that.

Where you could have some kind of case is the loss of your property. I'm having a hard time following exactly what this store is (feels like maybe an NFT type marketplace?) but there is an argument depending on circumstances that you have a right to what you purchased.

This is the best answer. Unless dad has been declared incompetent by a court he can still transfer the funds. Get him to do it and skip talking with the brother at all

That recipe stealing bitch

So your accommodation request is a more thorough description of your day-to-day duties? Why does your disability necessitate that?

Your supervisor may very well believe they are meeting your accommodation because it is so nebulous. Is there a more objective accommodation you can request?

I think the unfortunate thing about dBA is that it's a poor way of measuring low-frequency noises, so that number seems low but the level of noise and erratic quality of it are more severe than it is in person. I work in construction and deal with acoustical consultants, so I'm going to pick their brains on this issue. But yes, they really do not care. They are also giving me the option to pay for the repair to be done, which I might opt for because it could be cheaper than moving.

To anyone reading this post, it is definitely not true that brass knuckles are not illegal to possess. Brass knuckles are illegal or strictly regulated in all but about 12 states. They may also be outlawed at the county level, so there’s a far better than even chance it was illegal to have brass knuckles in the car.

Eager jurors could have an ulterior motive or agenda. They also seem more outspoken, and could sway jurors who are on the fence. Or they could be relying on outside information (e.g., true crime podcast fans). Regardless of the reason, they're a wildcard and not worth the risk, imo.

A reprimand would come from the school districting or the state.  In either case, they would take the information you provide and open an investigation.  You may or may not ever hear the outcomes of the investigation depending on what is actually being alleged.  As far as a reprimand goes, what does that look like?  Reprimands take very different forms (from an administrator saying be better next time to the state suspending a license). It is also rare that if that happens that there would be feedback to the people filing the complaint.

It is obvious that this is emotionally distressing, and advice can often sound mean or cold-hearted (especially in a legal advice forum).  No, a school should not be able to “straight up lie” about what is going on with her education and graduation.  What I am saying is that a school does not normally leave themselves open to this accusation.  From personal experience doing this type of work, especially with a more complicated situation as this one sounds like, there is quite a bit of documentation kept that would contradict much of what you are saying here.  For example, there is no way to prove that the school never tried to call.  You could probably prove they never spoke, but not that the school never tried (who is to say it didn’t come across as spam because the teacher was using a google number because they were calling from their personal cell and didn’t want their number showing up? That is just one example).  Also, diploma requirements are diploma requirements, they do not change by student.  Parents also have chess to transcripts and report cards, so it should never be by word of mouth if those requirements have been met.  Grading pass fail is actually worse for recovery as it would rely on a set rubric for overall course grade instead of averages.  

Regardless, school does make mistakes and they should not lie about them, but proving they actually lied when they probably have substantial documentation is a steep hill to climb and even if it is successful, you will likely never know the outcome.

Maybe even talk to a tech professional who might be able to identify timestamps for app commands. Detailed evidence.

I took the recipe, good day.

it was held in their store like all of their art in such with its respective characters, I paid for them using paypal/cashapp but they have the ownership log to look through when theyve been purchased and I have receipts as well, Im just so confused how I was banned for “scamming” when I have receipts to every purchase I have ever made + multiple people to vouch for me

Its not ok, its a 4th amendment violation, you can sue them with a good lawyer

What's wrong with wanting to be on the jury?

and a tetanus booster.

**Incorrect Subreddit**

* Hypothetical and general legal discussions belong in /r/legaladviceofftopic.

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

You could invite the manager or delegate to observe from your bedroom, but honestly it seems like they don't care. I looked up the acceptable decibel level and it's higher than what you measured.

That's fair enough, I suppose. I'm not well-versed in law at all, though; I just understand things that are directly explained to me. Didn't think that was a high bar!

Your family member has no idea what they are talking about. Your employer can legally do all the things your family member said they can't. The best recourse is to seek a new job.

Make sure you tell your insurance too.

It would honestly be very hard to sue for being kicked off the site. Most every website has terms or service which allows them to terminate any account for any reason.

Having said that, do you have actually momey in the account? Like were you paid for things and never got to withdraw the cash? Or did you buy merchandise through their store which is only held in thier store?

A good lawyer will have this case tossed out immediately. Illegal search so long as you didnt give them permission. A hunch or assumption doesn't give authority to an officer to violate your 4th amendment rights

Probably the latter- small claims court? Or at least for the lawyer to send Jane some scary letter so she gives the recipe back (if she really took it). Grandma is, as stated, really serious about her recipes. It sounds dumb to me and worse written out, but Grandma is seriously upset about this.

lol yep totally stopped reading - downvoting accepted

People love to go hard on downvoting sometimes.

Has she spoken with IID manufacturers/the court on getting the air volume requirement lowered

I can give  you a stir fry recipe. In order for something to be actionable there must be damage. I cannot conceive of any damage attributable to a stolen or lost recipe for I assume, a stir fry sauce.

Omg! 
I'm so glad you posted this, my mil had my husband use her card on my account for the kids Christmas gifts, SAME THING happened! 

She disputed it, I never heard or noticed one thing or another about it. I swear up and down I deleted it, but I'm also forgetful, so there's that..  but I just wanted to say your post makes me feel a little less crazy!

So they want to fill the jury with people who don't actually understand the laws we're supposed to be judging people innocent or guilty of breaking?

I knew next to nothing about the jury selection process prior to this experience, so this is all absolutely wild to me.

You’re being downvoted for sucking at reading.

Each side is given an amount of peremptory challenges. They can remove jurors without a reason given. You could think about it like removing to top and bottom percent in scores or data. They can remove the people they think will definitely or have a higher likelihood of voting for or against them.  This helps ensure the defendants right to a fair trial. It’s hard to say what the reason was but it could very well be that you seemed too well versed.

Once again, I don’t care that people know I’m nosy that’s just who I am, babes

Perfect - love I’m being downvoted for it though - that’s new lol

Does grandma have the recipe registered and copyrighted? Did she actually create the recipe or copy it from somewhere? See where this is headed.. tell her to be flattered somehow enjoyed her lunch that much.

Look into Project Sentinel - a local housing non-profit that can give legal advice. They did me solid a few years back when my place got a new owner and shenanigans ensued.

its just an mip i wouldnt sweat it too much

I'm a criminal defense attorney. I dismiss potential jurors for a slew of reasons. But the number one reason is when I can tell they want to be on the jury.

The fact that you had to comment this twice and they have upvotes shouldn’t be acceptable.

the defense team does NOT want people who THINK   if there is any chance there client is guilty.  Especially one that might influence the jury during deliberation.  Welcome to the real world of law 😞

Or he is drugging her to rape her in her sleep. That could also be affecting memory. Unlikely explanation but this is also unfortunately a rising trend. I think bloodwork and a physical is warranted.

Yeah, I'm weighing if it's worth it.

Thanks, if this gets deleted I'll post it there instead.

And, I figure the requisite morons were already covered by all the people who couldn't even manage to understand the question...

Being nosy isn’t a positive trait. Have some decorum.

You just stop reading?

You may need to have a drug panel run as well, just in case someone has been slipping something into your food/drink. In the meantime, while you look into everything, be very careful about what you eat and drink (including meds) making sure nothing has been tampered with. Setting up some hidden cameras around your food, water, and medicine wouldn’t be a bad idea either. I only mention this as you mentioned you have no recollection of these conversations (which may actually have never happened), and because you said your friends said you’ve been acting out of character, as well as you mentioning that you haven’t been sleeping well. Good luck and trust your instincts!

Go to the deleted files and recover them.

You won't have control over what they do with the information you provide.

I would not say you got dismissed for listening too well. You got dismissed because the prosecution clearly did not have any evidence - such as text messages, etc. - to show the defendant’s premeditation. My guess is that premeditation would have been based on  circumstantial evidence alone. Your answer clearly showed that you understood that that would be enough, whereas the others’ answers indicated that they thought the prosecution would need to tender evidence they do not have - which is most helpful to the defense. They don’t need you in the jury room during deliberations pointing that out.

I mean, if you’re the defense attorney, do you want someone on the jury who considers premeditation to include just thinking about the crime — or would you prefer people who think you need to take more concrete action for it to count as premeditation? Are you going to be easier or harder for a prosecutor to convince of premeditation than your fellow jurors?

That's what I'm worried about. I want to report everything but I don't want them to take action yet.

YOU NOT TALKIN ABOIT MYBFRIEND JAN SHE A CHRIETSN LADY

Again, not legal advice. 

An approach you might consider: 

1) IMMEDIATELY electronically notifying her that you withdraw acceptance. You want a time-stamped record that you canceled the agreement before she attempts to send you the money. If she immediately sends you the $91, let her know 'as of my time-stamped email, this does not satisfy my complaint' It makes sense for you to include in your email something like "I will be sending a formal letter shortly regarding the outstanding breaches of our original contract"

2) No need for notarized.

3) No template, just be professional and state the facts truthfully (assume that everything has to be 100% verifiable in front of a judge). Include:

\* you're asking for a partial refund of failure to perform services.

\* bullet point how they failed to perform

\* reiterate that their prior offer to settle is void bc they took too long

\* ask for their payment via an appropriate method in two weeks or you'll promptly submit it to small claims in your district court.

  
Don't submit a big round number. Even if you don't send her the itemization, you might itemize it yourself to come up with a precise amount (like $322.50 instead of $300).

\---

And for the rest of you reading this...elope. No dealing with florists, photographers, mothers.

I’m no expert on this but I’ve been thru plenty of stops before and have definitely gotten lucky with having open containers in the car with me during a stop, this post is making me realize I got lucky not having to deal with cops like you did, hell they just made me pour it out and sent me on my way (I was not actively drinking it just had it leftover for when I would hotbox and drink in my car when I got home haha) as far as California laws go there’s nothing wrong with having sealed containers in the car in fact you had them in the perfect spot so I’d definitely make sure your lawyer is willing to be on your side, cops seem like they are trying to get anything to stick but as far as I can tell you should be Scott free. This would affect nursing I’m sure and it’s just simply unnecessary to have to deal with any charges. I mean hell so what if you were going to a party? If anything they’d want to hatch you coming from a party rather than heading to it.. anyways that’s just my 2 cents, again not an expert  but I hope everything goes in your favor brotha

I hope this post is appropriate for this forum; I read through the rules about 10 times and am still not sure. 

Probably better at r/legaladviceofftopic.

Did I actually get dismissed because I was the only one who listened to and understood what the judge said about how premeditation works? I'm surprisingly angry about this; I not only wanted to be on the jury, but now I also feel I've lost some faith in the legal system if they dismiss people for understanding words. 

At the risk of catching a ban here for a LAOT/BOLA-style remark, the defendant's  peers in "a jury of one's peers" should generally include at least some proportion of morons. There aren't very many smart criminals.

This, be the voice the dog doesn't have. You can ask your local county animal shelter, they will have good advice on how to proceed.

There is nothing illegal about making a police report in good faith. However, in abusive relationships, police involvement can cause escalation of abuse. Tread carefully.

It’s very VERY unlikely an MIP will impact your nursing career. My girlfriend got one in college and has a successful career in law. You’ve done all you can, listen to your lawyer.

I was able to recover them because of recently deleted.

I was able to recover them because of recently deleted.

For a landlord, she sounds pretty nice. I used to have my local tenant’s law handbook pretty much memorized and I can’t recall any laws about a landlord moving a few small things during a showing. As long as nothing was damaged, I can’t see a court case here.

Take her to court, you have been way to accomandating to this LL, she seems like the one to have been taking advantage of you and your family, those excessive charges are signs she may not be able to pay you back your deposit so, she's trying to cover her azz in overcharging you.

There’s entertainment tax for trial lol

The photos can still be recovered either on your phone or in the cloud.

I would grab that peace bond and I’m a criminal lawyer lol

and I was immediately dismissed on a peremptory challenge  
  
From the defense, I assume?

Yeah you’re probably right thank you

I'm sure Grandma might be able to find lawyers who will happily take her money, but there is no way on earth anything actionable would come of this. 

This doesn't sound like a memory issue, it sounds like pettiness between two old 'friends.' 

Is GMA hoping to get her friend charged with theft? Sued in small claims court? 

What's the end goal? Because it's clearly a she said/ she said situation. It's not like gmas friend just started a business using the recipe for monetary gain.

Good. Make sure your lawyer knows that. Im not saying you did I’m saying that the cop lied when telling you it was illegal to own brass knuckles. He was right to raise an eyebrow because, during police investigations, brass knuckles are viewed as weapons, however there is no charge that would have stuck related to you just having brass knuckles in your center console.

Some weapons are legal and some are not. Students who have proven that they are proficient with firearms are allowed to practice the right in some states / schools.

They said they knew the jacket was covering alcohol and made it ok 
The town had this thing called “senior week” where like 50k highschoolers mob everything drunk for the entire month of June the week after they graduate highschool 
A good half of graduates in the general region

Unless your dad is legally unable to make his own financial decisions, he is still fully authorized to do whatever he wants without the need to involve the POA brother at all. Just have him transfer funds. Maybe do a little research on the process at the specific bank, such as required forms, in order to make it easy for him.

Well, the unrequested sexually explicit content is something to look into. I am just spitballing, as I have never practiced in this area, but it is possible that is a federal offense. Unless she threatens him with bodily injury it is unlikely you are going to get a RO against her. Contacting her family again might be a good idea. Because of the two different jurisdictions issue, you may be limited  to federal causes of action but California is pretty oriented to stalkers in light 💡 f the fact that so many celebrities live there and seem to attract stalkers. You really need to consult counsel. This could be defamation and libel if it impacts his career, which might be a round a bout wayto stop her. Again, just issue spotting as this is not my area.

Bud. School zones and construction sites are the "only" 2 places I'm an absolute stickler for driving the speed limit. I've spent many nights tearing up the streets of mexico, even a few reaching speeds higher than yours with a 1 added to the front.  ALWAYS DO THE SPEED LIMIT (OR LESS IN SCHOOL ZONES WITH PEOPLE PRESENT) and the ONLY exception to going above the speed limit in construction zones is if you drive that route more than once a week for 3 weeks and there is never anyone working. "Even then, no more than 10" (pronounced 7).  Outside of that, remeber, its always cheaper to pull over when you see the lights. 

And word from an "old man in an activity where men die young" dont do over 80 until you've been the driver in an accident that left both cars undrivable (not minor dent, but literally cant drive it to save your life). There are some things that can literally not be comprehended by the human brain without first-hand experience.  Its best to have those experiences going less than 80mph.

Are cops allowed to search your car for a traffic stop?

What does that mean?
I did not have them on my person they were under 20 other things in my center console

Is there a loophole, where if the landlord knowing the previous tenant is on the hook for the next months if collecting rent from a new tenant, does not collect rent and gives the new tenant the first month free?

I'm worried because their behavior throughout this has just been bizarre, and my father's wife has said she has a grudge against my brother. 

I wouldn't call the records damaging - I think it would look worse for them to release them - but they're not about me.

Some of the medical records that are missing detail abuse against a small child and resulting tests.

No
They said they knew the jacket was covering alcohol and made it ok

I didn’t leave anything out I have some things put on shelves some decorative pieces from my mother I shouldn’t have to hide all of that. Why would I?

No, there is absolutely no chance this goes anywhere.

Ok so here’s what you do: go to the cabinet under your stove top, smoke some weed, and chill tf out. 

this is a non-issue and you are overreacting

Did you give consent to search your car?

Grape or strawberry for your tossed salad?

It’s also sad that the officer knows the speeders will just get a slap on the wrist. Almost double the speed limit yet only considered 5 over?!

Decided to leave that shit out & now you’re acting shocked for some reason?

he lied to you, brass knuckles themselves are not illegal to possess, they are just treated as weapons when performing investigations.

Thanks so much for taking the time to respond, I really appreciate it. This is actually one of my biggest concerns. The immediate outcome of a peace bond sounds appealing, but I’m trying to understand the long term impact and what records may continue to exist afterward.  
I hadn’t heard much about the distinction between a section 810 peace bond and a common law peace bond, so thank you for mentioning that. I’ll definitely add that to my list of questions for my lawyer.  
Do you happen to know whether you’ve seen common law peace bonds come up on vulnerable sector checks or enhanced background checks, or was your comment more about the police/Crown record side of things?

don't have just ignore him. One write a letter explaining your side take a photo copy of all your information include it into the letter, and when you mail it back to him make him sign for it. Also have a copy of everything you sent him. Remind him that you want your security deposit. also anything that he may or may not have taken off you need to document it if you took pictures when you left showing how the home looked more than likely he is charging you for things and he’s got approved. Why he’s charging you for those things if it hits natural wear and tear most of the time that’s not allowed for a landlord to keep your deposit. I’m not sure how old the carpets were. The paint was things like that. Landlords are naturally supposed to repaint the home. They’re also supposed to change the carpet after a certain period of time carpets actually have a a lifespan and being a rental. It’s usually less than what it’s in your actual home, which is 5 to 10 years. Not sure when he changed the carpet. You have a right to question him, but make sure you are talking to an actual attorney have only had to deal with landlord, but I am not an attorney. I am not here to give you actually legal advice that you need an attorney for I’m giving you wisdom’s as a person that is dealt with landlords read over your contract as well with a fine tooth comb and if you really think this guy is scamming You or attempting to scam you out of money, you need to be in touch with an actual attorney you can use a free legal services. There are places and most states that have state schools that have law libraries. Some of them will actually kind of help you.

It was the counselor, and the administration team. We have documented evidence of both discussing with her father. The real problem is that they continued to tell her she has met the requirements for a diploma and then would change their story, and they were grading her work as passed because her school does pass/fail. they also lied to her about calling her and giving her information, when we have proof the school never called her. they also lied and send she never sent the documentation for her home hospitalization, but she did and we can see the email had been read. we weren't seeking monetary compensation, but the counselor should be reprimanded at minimum for the things she said, and the school shouldn't be able to straight up lie to her about what's going on with her education and her graduating.

Just tell her she didn’t move weed paraphernalia, she moved your used anal toy that hadn’t been washed yet.

If you have an iPhone, just go to recently deleted, and recover the photos. Just my thought process unless they were smart enough to delete those too

Is there any way to recover this that's huge for me.  I just want my deposit back. I don't want anything and I will never gamble again in my life.

Sorry. I realize that I didn't give a key detail here. It's not that the garage door itself is the issue. It's that the garage door motor is rigidly attached to the floor slab and is rattling the studs and materials in the walls and in my ceiling. The garage door itself is actually extremely quiet. The ask here is to have them put vibration isolators so that the rattling noise in our bedroom walls isn't excessively high.

Am I the only one who thinks this post is sus?  User is a month old and the fact her boyfriend is an accountant but then later they met at his accountants office?

All three bureaus extended free weekly access. You can check it once a week.

Call the police if the dog barks incessantly (noise complaint) or if the weather is terrible.  Call local animal control and explain the general situation of the dog.  He needs help.

Lesson learned stop gambling on off shore sites that are not regulated.

Listen, I’m just nosy so I’m gonna ask regardless I don’t really care what any of you think if you think that it’s not my business that’s OK. It’s not my business, but I still wanna know.

What does your lease say? My lease states that the landlord can enter the property for any reason WITH at least 24 hours notice.

Hence the phrase "Ignorance of the law is not an excuse"

So why do you think they would publish them instead of destroying them? Is there something particularly damaging in there?

I worked for an electric utility for years.

There is no way my utility would have done ANYTHING about someone complaining about the wiring of the building. That's a private dispute. The responsibility of the utility ends at the point of service, which is the meter. Sometimes, for other utilities, the consumer also owns the wire from the transformer to the meter, but still, the utility is not responsible past the meter.

Past the meter is a whole separate code (the NDS), and the utility would not inspect or be required to know how things are wired, unless it somehow affects safety, such as solar panels that could backfeed into the system.

But to stress the point, this is a private issue, or civil issue, not the responsibility of the utility.

Lol what do you mean fight it?? Ask for diversion program

I genuinely don’t understand what her endgame was

I don’t believe there are damages I need to check when I get home. I honestly just want to understand if she’s allowed to do that. And if not can I report her or something because I don’t think it’s okay she thinks she can do that.

Man in a construction zone too, probably loss of license at the bare minimum and insurance will be a nightmare for 7 years. Lawyer up and should avoid anything worse

Prob will have to do some first time offense program with a class and some community service to keep it off your record. Probably pay a fine. Court costs for sure.

This is from a teacher who has worked home hospital tutoring / alternative ed for a very long time.  What would be the purpose of/ goal of legal action?  Some kind of monetary payout?  A diploma that does not have the requirements met?  Sanctions on the school or teachers?  Based on the information and timeline you have outlined here, I think that you do not have a complete picture of what has gone on / is going on as far as credits are concerned.  Alternative education and recovery work is complicated and does change frequently based on what the student is producing.  Assignments being completed and them being done successfully can be very different things.  Regardless, diplomas are not given out until requirements are met and reviewed by the district (usually counselors and admin) those are the only people who can tell a student that they are done, not anyone hading out a packet.

Was trying to avoid too many specific details to follow posting rules. But if it matters, the sites he is getting background checked to go on are military bases. He is a civilian and this only happens every few years, but they are all government/military background checks.

And she didn’t take/throw out/destroy anything yeah? Just moved it?

okay, firstly, you need to go to an urgent care center or emergency room. this will be your first documentation of the event & it is imperative that you get their as quickly as possible for insurance purposes (& obviously for proper rabies protocol since this family is not cooperative). 

you need to make a police report with your local city police department.

you need to look up a plaintiff personal injury attorney in your area that takes dog bite cases & workman comp cases as well (AT THE SAME FIRM). figure out who all you need to file claims against: the homeowner or dog’s legal owner, landlord potentially if the home is rented, doordash for your worker’s injury rights (DON’T FILE A CLAIM OR TALK TO DEFENSE LEGAL/INSURANCE WITHOUT PROPER LEGAL ADVICE), & not to mention your own insurance.

i don’t know what state you’re in or i could be more specific.

post this on your state’s personal injury & workman comp subreddits for some great advice.

- former plaintiff PI litigation paralegal (who worked at a firm with workman comp)

how do you plan to fight it? can you prove you weren’t speeding somehow? seems tough since 89 and 45 mph are drastically different speeds that even just visually observing would be easy to see a difference between. sounds like you need to slow down/be more aware of your surroundings when driving

My sense of humor would be to text them to he with the message "Looks like you tried to text them and they went into my trash, here they are!"  😉

He said she said for all we know your partner walked up to the dog you come on Reddit expect everyone to believe one side.

Especially on rt 422.  That road is a traffic nightmare and a deathtrap at the same time

What are the damages and what would your desired outcome be?

Get a lawyer. You deserve to lose your license

It also makes no sense.  Even if you did delete them you just make it a little more annoying for insurance.  It is like the lack of photos matter

Anyway this is why teenage boys’ insurance is the absolute highest. Judging by your Reddit posts this won’t be your last ticket 😂 def see about a lawyer as in PA they def do not mess around with tickets in construction zones, especially if it was issued by a state trooper.

I don't know if they have intent to publish, so it seems that I don't have anything I can do until they do something.

You need an attorney. Any thoughts or opinions otherwise will result in you loosing your license (suspension).

There are many successful law offices that specialize in speeding ticket. This is why they exist.

Reddit can't help you otherwise.

This is helpful thank you! Just a couple of quick questions: 
- is there a formal demand letter template or format I should follow? Does it have to be notarized or anything? 
- should I send her a text letting her know I plan to do this? I’m just thinking ahead, if she sends the refund in the next couple of days before she gets the letter.

The papers appear to have been taken by either the son or the grandsons of my father's third wife, who has directly said that she has an issue with my now-adult brother to such a degree that she was refusing to turn over things of my father's.    

No one has threatened to publish them - It's just clear they're missing while other files were in the trash bags, and that the people who had access to take them have been behaving badly throughout this.

My earlier post about this mess is here :

Did you give her permission to show the place?

Attempting to get rid of evidence is a crime lol

Destruction of evidence is a crime. 

Write down what happened step by step in a doc with time codes and proper order. 

Refer to that document every single time. 

Make sure that your experience  documented and be vigilant about pressing charges!

Oh, well, yeah. That's a massive development in your favor. There is no 'satisfaction' of her end of the bargain. Granted, I'm only skimming that entire post because my kids are being little shits about bedtime, but looks like you should be able to sue for breach of the original contract. 

If you choose to pursue this, next steps would be: 

1) immediately formally withdraw your acceptance before she has a chance to pay you

2) Send a new formal demand letter (you can't sue for $915, but determine a fair difference in value that is defensible for the court). Send the letter via Certified Mail outlining original breaches and demand the new amount to avoid small claims court.

You’re right. I accidentally thought I lived on 40 acres.

This might be lawyer territory. Depending on impact of the 5 points on your insurance and potential loss of license. I would at least pay for a consult. And slow down! There is no reason to be going 89!

This might be lawyer territory. Depending on impact of the 5 points on your insurance and potential loss of license. I would at least pay for a consult. And slow down! There is no reason to be going 89!

Just a guess but a garage door would be considered reasonable noise. Them offering to have you change apartments in the same place at no charge seems reasonable

Just letting you know that sometimes even when you get something expunged, states/ counties can still report it EVEN THOUGH THEY SHOULDN'T, and the background check companies are only reporting what the court itself is reporting. Indiana has a fun habit of listing cases on public records as "expungement approved" but still listing them. 
If the charges were dismissed more than 7 years ago, the companies shouldn't be reporting it, and if it's multiple companies, it sounds like the state itself is reporting incorrectly.

Thank you. This is my first roadway accident so I’m a little confused on what I’m doing. I also didn’t think I’d have to deal with this on top of it

Thats none of our business and frankly doesnt change the legality of the situation

It seems reasonable on the surface, but is it really reasonable to force a family with a 1 year old to move after only a few months because the building won't address a noise issue from their own equipment? Aren't there tenant protections that require buildings to maintain reasonable noise levels on equipment they own and operate? Aren't there habitability standards that need to be met?

You were in possession of the alcohol. Do what your lawyer says, and avoid the various excuses contained in your post if you’re asked to speak in court.

If you have the list and remainder now, you have no legal recourse, because if they *had* missed the deadline your next step would have been to send them an official reminder/demand to send it within five business days. 

Regardless, if they put it in the mailbox on June 1st, which is the 30th day after you delivered possession, it would not be surprising at all for the postmark to be the next day.  Utah law does not say anything other than that they 'shall mail'.

You should absolutely report this to police. Call the responding officer, and let him or her know exactly what you have posted here.

Is there some specific person you can prove has the file, got it illegally, and has intent to publish it? Or are you picturing a scenario where a judge just says "if anyone anywhere has File X, you are forbidden to publish it"?  

If the former, it could be worth talking to a lawyer about writing that person a scary letter. If the latter, no, that's not a thing a judge will do.

And not a good tax move. What ever they pay in a bonus is going to be taxed higher than earned income!

1. Consult an attorney.  
2. Do not surrender anything without consulting an attorney. 
3. Once the employer finds out you have an attorney they may back off, (know this because I’ve been through it).
4. When there is a company takeover they are always looking for easy ways to get rid of people without laying off and no need to give severance deals.  Consulting an attorney will ensure if that is the attempt the do it with YOU in mind.
5.   See #1…

Renters insurance is dirt cheap. And they’ll protect your interests

Nah dude. Also report that shit to police.

That’s wild behavior

My young son often accompanies my partner on errands to the facility. He could have been killed by a dog like that. If you care so much about animals then you should be in favor of responsible ownership which includes keeping animals on leash, and taking responsibility for their behavior. We had no ill will towards this owner nor the animal and tried to deal with this in a chill manner. They lied, fled and can’t even have the decency to provide the vaccination status.

If you have an Android or an iPhone, deleted photos are put into a temporary storage area where you can recover them for a few weeks if you dont want them permanently deleted.

OP said they already recovered the images. They are asking if they should report the person for attempting to destroy evidence.

An IEP does not carry into adulthood. An IEP is an individualized education plan. Once the child leaves the educational setting, an IEP has absolutely no standing. So unless he has been labeled as a disabled adult, none of that has any bearing.

This is the one to use. You can get reports for three credit bureaus once a year for free.

That’s fair. But she offered the refund and said she would provide that within 30 days. It’s been 31 days now. Would that negate me accepting the refund offer?

Lawyer and accidental landlord here, this is generally correct. Though, I want to add that this is still a venue specific issue. So you need to double check the law in the state/city in which the original rental is located.

I'm a lawyer, not your lawyer, blah blah blah...  
  
The biggest hurdle is you accepted the refund. In contract law, there's 'accord and satisfaction'. If you have a dispute over quality/service, and they offer you a refund, and you accept, the law considers the dispute settled. So if you sue, the florist will tell the judge that they offered a refund and you accepted it. You could maybe craft an argument, but like, I don't know if a judge will be receptive.

If the judge looks past this, then yeah, seems like there was a failure to deliver. But like, you accepted the refund, so I'd recommend you let it go.

Buy a handyman special, cheap and use some of the cash to renovate and pay contractors they will be happy to help you

If you are looking at his IEP for diagnosis please be aware that there is a difference between qualifying for an IEP under autism and a medical diagnosis of autism. The IEP only qualifies him for special education services under IDEA. A medical diagnosis will specify his level of need (level 1,2,3 with 3 being most intensive needs). A medical diagnosis is needed for disability outside of school.

Is someone threatening to publish them? Who? Why?

Doesn't sound unreasonable. It's a horrible job to have these days, if you don't pay your police competitively you lose them to other departments. Jails are a massive liability so renovations are rarely anything beyond bare minimum. Just my experience with this stuff.

It all depends on where OP is from. Some professions don’t allow for ANY conditions. Especially in healthcare. Things have changed DRASTICALLY for anyone being arrested for ANYTHING. No company wants to have an employee with a record (and a DUI is a serious lapse in judgment, which can be detrimental to any person looking to secure employment). 

I’m not a professional or a lawyer, but I’ve seen people lose jobs because of scenarios like this one. Any profession that requires a license can issue the license even with a conviction, but the larger company may not want anyone with a record.

As others have said check your credit report. You can dispute any records on your report. Credit Karma has an option for file a dispute. There may be an investigation that could take several months but if you have evidence to support the error they will correct it. I had an error on my credit that was resolved. It took a few months but it’s all fixed.

Are they still in the recently deleted box?

Meaning yes? No? Delete the whole post? lol

I am sure if it's been mentioned but you can look at the insurance policy bulletin for pediatric dental. It should help you to determine what they cover and when. If you don't have access to the full policy, you can Google policy bulletins for your insurance company. It's possibly a prior authorization issue between the dentist/hospital/insurance.

Laundry is a convenience, not a necessity. Strictly speaking.. it’s not heat, or water

Lawyer here. That's a lot of text.

That's what I thought, he's threatening that and to tear up plants in the garden he helped plant. Just being petty over little stuff.

They literally said they recovered them in this post.

No he cut me a break

Under 21 in possession 
He cut me a break on the knuckles

He has to go before a judge to get a bail amount. If it wasnt today should be tomorrow and youll know.

Just worry about getting insurance to fix your car

Look in your Trash folder.   Just because someone deleted the photos, does not guarantee they are gone.

It says that all approved improvements must remain with the property when you leave. That's the new lock that you bought.

The lock has to stay, but that's your key. If they want the key when you eventually leave, they can pay you for it.

What have you been charged with ?

A cease and desist is just a letter.  It has no force of law.  Unless it contains compelling legal reasoning as to why the person should stop doing whatever you want them to do, there is no particular reason they should take it seriously.  Such a letter would have more impact if it came from a lawyer who is prepared to take next steps.

No your mom has no real obligation to do what he’s asking. He chose to install it. It’s part of the house now essentially because it’s fixed in place. If you call the cops they will say it’s a civil matter and he can’t tear up the carpet if your mom says no.

Not real legal advice but...Should have just said you lost you key. Lost key replacement probs has a smaller fixed cost in your lease and if the landlord didn't care to have a copy on hand that's on them at that point I'd assume?

File a police report ASAP.

Her parents are, she tells me she considers herself LDS, but has her own set of rules that don’t align perfectly to the church’s

She is LDS and you are not?

You should be emailing yourself every time something like this happens. So you have a chronicled list with timestamps showing this isn’t some off the cuff response.  Having a word doc or something isn’t enough in my experience.

If there’s a lawsuit some locations a sheriff can serve them notice of it.

The sign specifically indicated that petting the puppies is allowed?

You’re free to request they replace the lock with their guy. But it’s not free for you and anyone can follow a YouTube video to do so. They gave you a key. They keep a spare so they can enter when needed without you. That’s not a legal guarantee to have free lock out assistance and it’s fine for them to charge even if they had a spare.

This is only true in some jurisdictions—Texas for example you can no longer do this.

Dude, if rhose are the lengths you need to go to to keep the person you love from stealing money? Then there is no reason the relationship should continue. That’s absurd. Either nut up and have a serious sit down convo about y’all’s money , or terminate the relationship. There is 0 reason to put up with this!! They aren’t married! No idea why any one who isn’t married (and even when they are I don’t think they should combine) would ever do this.

I dont have a yard to break out of, we live in an apartment complex. And like I said in another comment, even if we do eventually get one hes an expensive dog and a small breed so we wont be leaving him outside unattended. 

Yes I agree its a common clause but as I stated in 
my post, we did not sign *any* contract from the breeder. Im trying to see if we are still legally obligated even though we didnt sign tht. So if anyone actually wants to answer that I would appreciate it lol

Like I stated in another comment, if we see any negative behaviors like marking, aggression, etc we will get him fixed. And im not a person that let's their dog off-leash in public so aggressive interactions are way less likely.

So I could just draft up a letter and have it mailed? My sister is a paralegal and she mentioned that usually a cop serves you the paperwork

Now post the part from your lease that discusses how lockouts are handled.

He has to go before a judge and they set a bail amount. Aggravated assault is a felony so it might be a lot.

Maybe something like bi-polar then which has impulse episodes and depressive episodes, but either way that in no way impacts her ability to consent. Even if it did (which again it doesn’t) if they don’t have a legal guardianship over her they absolutely can’t successfully sue you you’re right. Also want to reinforce against some bad advice I saw do NOT take yourself to the police for the love of god. If you have an immigration lawyer I’d tell them about what’s going on anyways in case a complaint is filed.

Cease and desist are just letters. They hopefully come with an or else that someone takes serious enough that they stop. There’s not really anything actionable here.

If your sister's insurance covers permissive drivers, then the court will probably care more about whether the vehicle was insured at the time of the stop than whether your name was specifically listed on the policy. I'd bring proof of her insurance and if you're concerned, call the court clerk and ask exactly what documentation they want for deferred disposition.   
  
Since this is your first ticket, I'd also ask whether defensive driving is available in addition to deferred disposition. If you qualify, a lot of drivers use approved online courses like onlinetxdefensivedrivingcourse. com to keep the violation from affecting their record and insurance. Works like a charm.

Try Credit Karma. Pretty sure they do free accounts and credit checking. Once you find the issuing bank, you should be able to get a copy of paperwork to see who took the loan out. 

I hate to tell you, but there’s a good chance your dad took out the loans in your name and spent the money.

Does anyone have any concrete California law that says anything about this? So I can stop her from continuously asking

I appreciate your insight. Were not unreasonable people, if we see he has those kind of behaviors we will get him fixed. Marking with urine and aggression are things I do not tolerate but I also feel like it depends on the dog. Well see how he operates as he gets older and if we see it as necessary we will take that step. As for accidental impregnation I responded to another person as to the steps we plan to take to avoid this. Thanks again!

Thanks, appreciate this!

That makes sense, I just don’t know if he has already seen one or is waiting I’m not even sure who to call to find that out

You need to re-file that complaint every week until the complaint is actually cleared because she’s not allowed to place anything inside of the dog park. 

The squeaky wheel gets the grease, be squeakier than her.

Why do y’all have a shared account to begin with? You’re not married, and even when you are married I see no reason to give up your financial independence.

You dont know me, so I get it, but im not an irresponsible dog owner. Ive very experienced and have adopted multiple dogs over the years from said kill shelters. Of course, if our puppy remains intact we will not be letting him off-leash anywhere off of our property. We live in an apartment complex, hes not getting left outside. And even if we somehow manage to buy a home in this economy we will not be leaving him outside unattended because of how expensive he is and because hes a small breed and im afraid of predators getting to him.

There are damages, it was battery. She can get damages including punitive damages for battery in California.

You should consult a lawyer. We just don’t know enough to know here you stand. 

On one hand Florida has a lot of limitations on HOAs. On the other, “I tried,” does little against your obligations here.

NAL. Sounds like they've given you pretty reasonable options. What are you trying to get them to do, install new mechanisms to reduce the noise/vibration?

I find that hard to believe. 
I looked at land years ago and I was looking around 4 acres minimum to have at least a 100 yard range. Anything smaller and I was running into issues with being too close to the road, other houses, etc.

You’ve done all you can given The circumstances. You have a lawyer who will do their best to minimize consequences. 

Were you cited for anything related to the brass knuckles?

He may have to wait to appear before a judge who will determine bail/bond conditions and amounts. The charge is serious enough that usually has to happen.

That dog is a dangerous animal and needs to be put down.

Got reduced down. Just can’t contact her. Feels like a win.

She doesn’t even care about her own job, so why would you care about it? 

To behave so improperly demonstrates that she does not care one bit about either her job or her freedom.

This is a well known scam where they try to get you to reimburse a trailer that they never booked.  I’d block them and move on but ask them for an itemized receipt and proof of purchase if you want to toy with them

As u/auraseer said, under the law in the USA there are very few things that an employer is not allowed to discriminate on.

Aside from those few "protected classes" employment protections are, for all practical purposes, non-existent.     And in some limited cases, they can even discriminate based on a protected class.

Alcohol is legal if it’s sealed and out of reach of the driver, provided the driver is legally allowed to possess alcohol. You are not. Brass knuckles are illegal whether or not you think they are “novelty”.

You can work with your lawyer. For a first incident like this there are probably options that will keep your record clean.

Wow 
First, document everything. Literally have a notepad by the door and write down notes of what's happening and when, before you go outside. Half the time this will calm you down enough to not go out. Great. You probably won't accomplish anything outside anyway. But the judge will LOVE documentation, and so will the press, if you have to go that direction. 

Next up, fully understand the laws in your area regarding the recording of things outside, specifically where there is no expectation of privacy. It looks like PA is pretty strict, but look to see if you can get this person yelling at you about how much of a big shot they are. Bonus points if they call out the power they have over others. 

Eventually you'll capture enough. Work hard to stay calm until then. Talk to a lawyer, because this will likely stray towards local politics, and you want to avoid that.

Storage facility is responsible if you contact animal control they’ll put the poor dogo down I can’t give 2 cares in the world about either of you getting bit and the dog will always be above both of you but go after the storage place.

My ex use to do this. I thought it was me because I had a pretty bad head injury a few years prior and was asleep for a week before I woke up so thought it was just memory issues popping up after some years. I started getting paranoid at work similar to you about deadlines and such. 
I ended up secretly recording our conversations because I needed to know I wasn’t crazy. Nope, he 100% was gaslighting me telling me he never said those things and/or did them when I in fact had evidence showing otherwise. Thank goodness he is an ex though. 

I would immediately move your money to a separate account he doesn’t have access to or even a different bank altogether. Change your phone password too in case he can get access to your accounts on there, as well.

NJ Consumer litigation attorney here.   You are not listening.

The contract controls.  Verbal statements are not binding unless you have a witness and can prove it explains an essential term of the contract OR if something is missing that should have been included.  This is called the Parol Evidence Rule.  

You have no recourse based on verbal statements.    People say things all the time that are not included in a written contract.  The writing reduces the terms of the contract to what the parties agreed to.   You should have caught this when you signed the contract.  It’s now too late.

Get ready for a fun ride!

You can hire your own attorney to try to force the release of the footage.

Depending on how important this footage is to you, the cost or may not be worth it.

use condoms. it is rape because he forced to do something you were not consenting to, but unless there's others, it's your word against his.

Yes exactly. I know it sounds dramatic to say “thousands of pieces” but when you consider shattering a single wine glass on your tile floor, except it’s grass and dirt and gravel walkways and it’s times what I imagine to be dozens? Hundreds? Of times it is a LOT

Got nothing to worry about if you disclosed it. To be honest it sounds like your boss is just going out of their way to try and give you a hard time, or trying to give you the impression that they have authority that they don’t.

NAL: I'm sorry this happened to you. I've been hit on the highway before skin to vehicle to ground, ran over, etc. It's really unfortunate when it's happening especially if your bike doesn't make it. 

My friend died in a car accident and no one would tell me anything. I got bored and decided to lookup his name in the clerk of courts for just be FL in general... Easily find this website online. Anyway I found out the court cases and all the parties involved and who killed him etc. It's been years but I mean it was all online. 

Since this is an accident involving a vehicle, your friend should be on the clerk of courts website even if it's just the investigatory period. I apologize for your loss and wish you good luck.

I'm sorry for your loss. Any criminal investigation will be handled by the police and they likely are already in contact with her next of kin

I would offer him the option to fix it and he pays for it or you’re going to get it fixed and see him in small claims.

Awesome, thank you so much for the advice! We will do both!!

I talked to someone who runs these deals, he said they're being charged 32/unit. It just sucks that my previous internet was better and cheaper

It was an officer. I googled his name and he works for the department in the area. The phone number was the official number of the District Court

That would be a negative in Florida.

They’re free to change rates at any time. Same as you’re free to counter with any rates you want. It would get into a legal matter if you signed at a given rate and they wanted to change it.

I want $1 million. Sometimes you don’t get what you want.

NAL - If the online form won't accept a blank SSN, try calling the company and explaining what you would like to do - you might be able to mail in a form the old fashioned way.  It should be possible to name someone without their SSN but you should be as specific as possible with the other information - full legal name, date of birth, relationship to you.  However, it would be up to your sister to pursue the claim and prove her identity.  You might also be able to set up a trust and put your assets, including life insurance, in it, naming someone other than your father/stepmother as executors.  But you'd want a lawyer to help you with that.

WA state does not allow a landlord to collect rent from you and a new tenant for the same period.

For the sake of mitigating damages, a Washington landlord must take reasonable steps to re-rent the unit once a tenant moves out. This means that a tenant may not be wholly responsible to pay the entire amount remaining under the lease agreement. That is if the landlord is able to find a tenant before the expiry of the original lease term.

Likely the time for an itemized list is over I’d file in small claims for your deposit now.

Check your local municipality rules for a noise ordinance or any general kind of disturbance rules. If there’s a local ordinance, the police can enforce it if you want to call them (it could be anonymous if you want).

If your neighbor is consistently excessively loud, consider moving. Otherwise you could consider building a civil private nuisance case against them, but you would need a lot of evidence to support your claim like police reports filed, recordings, decibel meter readings, detailed logs of occurrences, etc.

Doesn’t mean he should be an asshole. Civility is much more effective.

This is satire, right?

Thank you, I called and they were incredibly helpful ♥️

I’m sorry for your loss. The police conduct their own investigation and you can’t really force their hand.

Kind of curious about this obviously British poster writing about Texas. Being a foreign resident adds a new layer of dependence on an American boyfriend whom you clearly don’t trust. Speaking as someone who’s been there, it’s imperative to avoid being dependent on a significant other for your financial and legal life or you’ll be in a nightmarish situation if/when the relationship ends.

Thank you, I appreciate that! That’s great you two were able to work it out amicably. I would absolutely be in favor of money going directly to my kids for tuition/savings.

Advice I really wish I had taken: Consult with all of the best divorce lawyers in your area. At least six. By doing this, he won’t be able to use them, including the ones you end up not working with.

Good luck! You sound like a great dad. Hope things work in your favor. 
My ex and I have a handshake agreement on child support. With our son going to college in a couple of months, we decided that money can go directly to him. Maybe putting it like that could work in your favor. Still child support but directing it to the child.

The property I purchased was covered in glass too. Although probably not as bad as yours but I don't know. I'm still picking up pieces few and far between. Nobody helped. Thousands of pieces.

Yes no doubt I’m getting a lawyer. Found one that looks like a great fit on paper, calling tomorrow to schedule a consultation.

Sorry see what you’re saying I misread. And yes, they are primarily going to be staying by now. We’ll typically do that over the summer. And if/when J starts work with me it makes sense so we drive together.

Then they owe YOU rent for June. Tell them they can pay it directly to the LL.

Call the life insurance company amd ask them if they need it. Or can you just designate her

Seems wild that people can just disturb a neighborhood whenever they want

How could u tell? Need to know for future reference

They should tell you where you stand legally. Or pointed to resources that can. I think send him something in writing quoting from this.

You need a lawyer. If she's bringing one to the table and is willing to fight for the money, you're gonna need one too to fight back

You start by doing a consultation with a local lawyer.

Did the person who left the message identify themselves? If so, was it a clerk or a police officer?

If you're paying rent, then you are still the tenant and have full rights to occupy the property. The landlord cannot charge you and have someone else live there.

I said that in the comment you're responding to

It did, that was the first thing I checked.

Not legal but: You usually need antibiotics after a dog bite.

I went through a similar situation with my little sister's dad. CPS got involved. After a year they terminated his reunification plan. He lost at trial. Once the gravy train stopped and promise of financial gain faded, he disappeared. Should be different in your case since the petitioner for guardianship is not a parent and therefore does not have parental rights, but I'd still prepare for the possibility of a long, cententious battle.

Texas's flavor ban got overturned.

Under RCW 10.97.060 they can request that all records of the arrest and charges filled deleted from all records. Most these background companies go thru the same background checking companies and he can reach out to them to inform them that it’s not a conviction and that they are falsely reporting his background. It’s a violation of the  Fair Credit Reporting Act for them to be falsely reporting a criminal conviction

OP needs to answer more questions because - on its face - the neighbor hasn't done anything wrong.

Get an employment attorney. They can’t just fire you because of your DUI.  That’s illegal, DO NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES VOLUNTARILY SURRENDER YOUR LICENSE as occupational therapist.  It’s probably not even legal for HR to ask for it.

Ideally the system would print the rounded total on the receipt. Worst case there needs to be a sign saying "We're rounding due to the discontinuation of the cent coin". Are you doing actual rounding? Some up, some down? or always rounding up to your benefit? It needs to be actual rounding.

Oregon permits home buyers to terminate a tenant’s lease in some situations. If they do that, you may be entitled to relocation assistance. 

Here’s a list of resources from Portland Tenants United:

Depends on your municipality rules but PA pretty much allows fireworks of most kinds and there's no state "quiet hours"

He might not be breaking any rules

Honestly, if you don’t understand the difference between the board and the hospital go ahead and turn it I’m 💀

Okay. That was exactly my question, so I appreciate the answer. 

I had told him I would consider signing the title over for $300, and the other half he would pay in a month once he gets his disability payment and/or a few more paychecks for picking up shifts. It's really not about the money so much as wanting to make sure he is actually committed to treating this responsibily. He's got a pretty sweet little set-up over here and has been here for like 5 years so I don't *think* he'd dissapear, but I am also not naive. If I really needed to see that money I wouldn't even entertain this.

"Just getting a clean record" isn't a clean record. And judges can see your full driving record, including anything that's "dropped off" for insurance purposes.

You can request a deferral or a diversion program, usually done by requesting a "mitigation" hearing, but I wouldn't challenge this unless you have some **very** compelling evidence of wrongdoing by the officer.  In most states a deferral or diversion is at the judge's discretion, so it will be a bit of a coin toss for you.

Not so fast! Look up Florida’s laws on recording conversations. It’s a felony if more than one other person is being recorded and they don’t know about it. Also, your company policy on doing that as well. And, don’t forget that attorneys are in the business to make money. They aren’t going to give you advice without being paid, or encouraging you to sue to get them paid more. If you are still a probationary employee, it’d be easier to just fire you for reason and make you look disgruntled, burning every bridge on the way out. Good luck

Lol, demanding rent but threatening to trespass you. Pick a lane!

She doesn't have a say. Custody aggrements typically cease at 18 because at 18 that person is now a legal adult.   Ask them if they would like to live with you.  

She is free to say no.  Her no most likely has zero legal standing as both your kids are adults.

Eh, whatever. That's how I found it. Text is my own, but Google was no help finding the law.

That law is for the tenant deciding of their own volition to move out early/break the lease

It doesn't apply to tenants moving out early at their landlord's request so that a new tenant the landlord found can move in

I am not a lawyer, but a VA car dealer.

1.  Yes, if they cannot honor the terms of the contract, you are able to return the car.

2.  No, they have likely been spending the past month unsuccessfully trying to find a bank to buy your loan.

3.  You are entitled to your down payment minus costs to reconditioned the car to the state it was in when you purchased it, and they can also charge you mileage fees for however many miles you have driven.  

4.  The safest way to return the car is in person.  I assume you want the independent inspection to confirm the damage looks older than your period of ownership.  This is only going to be worthwhile to you in the event this ends up going to court (unlikely) and you want to travel all the way back to VA for any court proceedings.  

5.  They're already telling you the contract is void on their end.  You don't need to reject it.  They will repossess the vehicle if you don't return it in a timely manner.

It's their property, it's in your lease, and your bed doesn't look anything like an "outdoor bed."  You will lose this battle if they pursue it.

Make sure this is the hill you want to die on.

I have a WhatsApp group for software engineers in AB, I asked them the same question, will update you soon

Awesome input and thanks again. My friends building down the street from us is actually going thru a big lawsuit if this nature right now so it’s got my gears turning.

Yup that’s going to be my offer. But she’s going to say no, guaranteed. This is a source of income for her.

If I’m right they can’t go back ten years only law officers can. And it can’t be used against you at that point. I could be wrong

So do you get a cut if the new tenants are paying more?

The legal side. sealing, potential civil action. is worth talking through with a MA attorney like the top comment says. But there's a parallel problem that won't get solved by the court, and it's probably hitting your job search harder than you realize.

When you're arrested, that record gets scraped almost immediately by data broker sites (Spo͏keo, BeenVe͏rified, People͏Finders, etc.) and sometimes by local news aggregators. The court dismissal doesn't trigger any automatic removal from those sites. So employers who Google your name before an interview can still see the arrest, even though the case went nowhere.

The fix for that piece is separate from the legal process. You have to go through Google's 'results about you' tool to flag anything that surfaces there, and then individually opt out of each data broker site that's showing it. It's tedious but it's fr͏ee and it works.

The Discove͏rability Company has a free write-up that breaks down exactly how arrest records stay visible after a dismissal and what you can actually do about it. worth reading before you start job hunting again.

"The board might be cool with this skeleton in your closet, but we aren't."

  
"okay, that's just like your opinion, man. The board was cool with my skeleton in my closet years ago. You can show me the door, but I'm taking my fucking license with me."

No double dipping-you’re good!

I mean, it's kind of amble notice, as they were ambling on outta there...

Hmm, seems weird. Did they get a new management company or head property manager? Or maybe they're thinking about selling the complex and wanting to make it look nicer. Regardless, the language in the lease about being able to regulate balconies is broad but probably has teeth if they're applying the same restrictions across the complex now, which it sounds like they are based on their attitude about your neighbors' stuff. You paying for a storage room is not really relevant. If anything, I'd say to bring the "storage" stuff you have on the balcony inside and ask them to clarify in an email what exactly constitutes the difference between indoor furniture and outdoor furniture, since it sounds like you'd like to have the bed out there. (I am a lawyer for a landlord).

an attorney in NJ can typically appear on your behalf. you generally don't have to be there in person for the hearing itself, especially on a routine expungement petition. confirm that with whoever you hire, but it's pretty standard.

one thing worth knowing ahead of time: getting the court to grant the expungement is step one, but it doesn't automatically scrub the record from Google or the data broker sites. after the order goes through, you'll still want to:

send the expungement order to the NJ courts and any relevant state repositories so they update their records
contact data broker sites (Spokeo, BeenVerified, MyLife, etc.) directly with opt-out requests. some will remove based on the order, others just have a standard opt-out form
use Google's content removal tool to flag any search results that still surface the old record

a lot of people do the hard part (getting the expungement) and then wonder why it's still showing up six months later. it's because the data sites re-scrape and re-index on their own schedules, not the court's.

there's a fr͏ee step-by-step that walks through exactly what to do after the court order comes through:

Really wasn’t trolling. Stated a fact and got ambushed.

"But the bolded sentence is not correct" 

Except it is, in the context of the scenario being commented on.  You replied to someone who was directly commenting to OP about their situation where the landlord requested the keys back because they had a new tenant ready to move in.  Stating that they should be entitled to the property if they are paying is a valid comment on OP's situation given that they did not hand over the keys and property without a request from the landlord due to imminent occupancy.  

If you just reply to a comment in isolation without the context of the comment, you demonstrate a complete lack of reading comprehension, hence why you're getting dogpiled.  You seem very dim or like you just want to argue.

Don't surrender a goddamn thing. 

  
if somebody's going to take away your license, make them do it with a fucking crowbar.

This ^^ 

Washington state AG also has a renters rights and resources page: ( 

I know Seattle does too and was heavily in favor of renters. So as Durga9 says, check to see if your city has specific resources that can give you support and advice!

Ya I’ll talk to the lawyer about that one I’m pretty certain I had to file a motion, as I did, to terminate support. Also it would probably just tick off the judge if I tried that at this point.

Hire a lawyer.   Thats is the only answer.  

Why not offer for them to live with you full time until each goes to college.  Take the manipulation out of the picture.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Then you all arent in city limits, you lot are confused

Your options appear to be to talk to him, call the police, or do nothing.

This sounds like the right call. I've offered to pay when I was picking out the tree service, if he asks I'll see if he wants to pick a tree service and get a quote and I can pay him that amount.

My mom has always been male centered

\>I work as a licensed occupational therapist

\>Your a licensed lawyer

Are you confused about something?

Sadly yes, the trees most likely can't survive having half of the root system removed, it's possible for smaller young trees but old ones, they have their amount of roots for a good reason, remove enough and the tree will slowly die even with the best intervention, best... Remember it's you or the city paying for this, they'll say "nope! Cutting it down is so much cheaper, why attempt when it's probably going to fail" so if you want to attempt to talk them into even allowing you to try, you will be paying for it.

A good point, if the tree survives, are you going to be doing the yearly root checks? Yes you can put a tarp, or concrete, whatever you want, the tree will grow right through it with time. It's more cost effective to cut it down than to keep the roots from making their way back over.

Landlord really thought he could have his rent and trespass them, too.

I can’t speak to cook county but you might reach out to the clerk’s office to just ask about terminating it. Don’t go into the details. See what they tell you. If the child support was coming out direct from your paycheck it may be the same as it is in DuPage (where i am) where they can just take care of it.

Though Cook County has always been a different bird. Good luck!

I wouldn’t just assume this won’t come back to bite you, handle it while it’s fresh. I had a landlord in Olympia try to pull a fast one on me and the city of Olympia has a renters rights program. They have lawyers and everything. Contact your city and see if they have something like this. They are so helpful. They will give you documentation and everything. It solved my issue. It’s free. Protect yourself.

OP, please read the well researched comment above.

Honey, he's not a lawyer. He’s an occupational therapist.

That's interesting honestly Lol I'm surprised it's that easy. I really thought there would be a lot more paperwork and documentation to it.

I'd document everything and push this further, a $50 credit is honestly insulting. That barely covers a weekend of normal usage.

You probably need to talk to an actual (hired by you) attorney. 

Two states. A LOT of hair. This has more moving parts than you are going to get addressed on reddit.

No you're reading that wrong

The seller does not have an obligation to disclose. 

BUT if they fail to disclose, the buyer can return within 30 days. 

OP bought it a year ago. That ship has sailed

Yep. If this was rent or a deposit paid before transition that’s a them problem. But since it was after you need to fix it.

If the property lays vacant then you might be on the hook, but the moment the landlord is collecting rent from another person is occupying the property and paying rent then the landlord can't collect from the person who broke the lease any longer. It's a common law thing going all the way back, and so isn't a state-by-state issue. Across the entire country landlords can only collect rent from one source at a time, even if people who break lease are generally still on the hook for the duration of the lease even if they are living elsewhere. The landlord is obligated to stop collecting rent from the former tenant when the new tenant starts paying.

My great grandma always said 

“For your spouse and your children, neither all your love nor all your money.”

Get a lawyer, speak to an accountant, talk to the bank and go to the doctor for full blood panel. PLEASE! Last thing you want is for him to be slipping you substances in your food and not just gaslighting you but also drugging you and causing some of the paralyzing paranoia and insomnia. Like this man IS stealing your money and he IS gaslighting you, make sure he’s not actually slipping you anything to make this situation worse for you.

Also what he’s doing is financial abuse. Change your direct deposit and track all of YOUR interactions. It’s best to speak to the accountant and lawyers first so that when you speak to the bank maybe they can deter the bank from needing approval from your bf in order to obtain account information or to retrieve your money. (Like some folks have mentioned)

Good luck!

It sounds like there's a good chance you'd lose this one in court since you knew it was dead AC didn't deal with it promptly.  I'd suggest telling him you're willing to pay and asking him how he wants to handle that since he refused the service you scheduled.

I’d print out that confirmation and hold onto it. But you should only use the car in order to get it registered.

She could be acting weird because her BF is scamming her and making her feel crazy. I’d be acting weird too. There’s a lot of good advice here please follow some of it. What about parents or older siblings that could help you? How old are you? How much money do you have? Please do something. After you fix the financial issues break up with him not before.

Honey your a licensed  lawyer. You should know the answer. If they fire you sue the shit out of then. If you're not disbarred it's wrongful termination, and go have a cocktail in your office like every other lawyer. I think I would have questions for the people that hired you.  You're litigating but you couldn't figure out I had a dui before you hired me? And now it's an issue? Fuck that dude

This likely falls under basic bailment and negligence.

When you leave property with a business for repair, they have a duty to return it in the same condition. If it comes back damaged, the burden is usually on them to explain why they're not responsible. A simple it might break warning isnt the same as you clearly agreeing to take that risk.

You also told them not to replace the center stone, yet they proceeded knowing its condition. As professionals, they either needed to do the work safely or refuse the job not break it and charge you.

I wouldn't pay upfront. Ask them to cover the damage, and if they refuse, thats exactly what small claims court is for.

Sounds like Respondent's attorney made a (very) dumb mistake. Perjury requires intent. Not saying it wasn't boneheaded but not actionable.

I've held my license for six years, clean record, no complaints, genuinely good at my job.

Before I got sober I had a DUI. This was four and a half years ago, before I was licensed

what

Because a tenant occupying the unit is a whole different scenario that was not mentioned. I understand that is the case here, and agree OP shouldn’t pay. But the bolded sentence is not correct - there are plenty of scenarios where someone moves, hands in keys early, and keeps paying rent through termination date without access to the unit.

You don’t need an attorney for small claims. Start here

While it is true that the only right answer is to get a lawyer, the burden of proof regarding the son being disabled enough to qualify for post majority support falls on the parent requesting that support continue (unless the current child support order contemplated this child requiring post majority support). OP still needs to prepare all evidence at their disposal to argue that their child does not qualify for further support, but the other parent must prove that the child does.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

Invalid Location.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Child support/JPA clearly states support ends when children are 18 and graduate high school, or no later than 19. This most recent agreement was signed in 2014 I believe, so he was 7. We clearly knew about his diagnosis at that time.

A video saved in Snapchat is how I found out my ex was cheating on me. 

We were already growing apart so a huge part of why I was upset was the fact that it was Snapchat.
The WHOLE point of Snapchat is that it’s supposed to be temporary and disappear, so to intentionally save it there felt just so stupid.

Thank you, that sounds awful, but thank you for the info

If you like your place, just be quiet for two months until you sign a new lease. Then you can report him for code or take him to small claims court, and make him pay for the electricity. If you wanna go to war start turn off your breaker or if you don’t have access to it, make a plug that will rip the breaker. Trip the breaker every few days.

In most states your landlord cannot collect double rent. My guess is you will win in court, if your landlord wants to take you to court.

State Attorney General office has consumer affairs division. No business owner wants that letter. Did they pull a permit for original install? Inspector should have caught gas line issue.

Even if he does, what’s to keep op from flipping the breaker off after the LL leaves. 😎

fyi, not that it matters, but i'd remove the &utm_source=chatgpt.com from your link

19 day old account. I thought this sub had account age minimums to prevent trolls like this.

Did I reply to OP? No, I replied to the incorrect comment stating **“if you’re paying for it then it’s yours for the time paid and you should have access to the property”**. Never once said OP should pay.

Why do you think the bolded is incorrect?

That is the issue. There is no way to loan a vehicle without generating liability. 

It would require a change of ownership (and ideally returning your plates to the DVM) to completely shield you from external liability.

Again, you could sell it to him with a payment plan with a written contract, at which time the title would be signed over to him. But the only protection you could put in place there is a lien on the title. And again, it would be difficult/expensive to ever recover anything.

As people mentioned, no good deed goes unpunished. And there is a 99% likelihood you will get burned or out more than $600.

I would have taken action before. Told my neighbor and/or their insurance company that there is a dead tree and when it falls, it’s their fault.

Guarantee that is a max on a shared line so he will never get that

We’re trying to give you advice but it’s hard to know what’s gunna fly if we don’t have any context. I understand you think she’s being difficult, I just don’t know whether the judge is going to think that’s the case, or even if the judge does think that if they will think it’s perfectly reasonable for her to be difficult under the circumstances. 

I also can’t tell if you truly have the full story, because you sound very dead set on “he has done nothing wrong, this is all his ex beating bitter” but the fact that either (a) he agreed to this situation, or (b) the judge ordered it anyway, seems to suggest that either he or the judge knew that him spending unsupervised time with the kid would not be good for the kid. So there is at least one person here, your bf or the judge, who agreed with his ex her requests were reasonable. Maybe you do know everything that happened though and you just didn’t want any nasty comments, but you trying to prevent that also prevents anybody from helping you out. 

Like your bf could be a pedophile for all we know, you know? And you should understand how our guidance might differ if we’re talking about him just recovering from substance abuse vs. him sexually abusing kids, etc.

What does your original child support agreement state? That’s what you have to follow. 

We are in a collar county and my ex and i had a verbal agreement to continue the support through college in exchange for not having to contribute to tuition. All he had to do to terminate it was see the county clerk who terminated it. We didn’t have to get lawyers or file motions or anything.

With respect, your son is now an adult and if he cannot work and needs support, he needs to go through the appropriate channels and get on disability. 

EDIT: NAL

No forms at all, none were required or at least none were asked for. And full transparency I did my taxes through H&R block.
I’ve created a month by month spreadsheet with receipts attached and that was pretty much it.
I’m unsure if they did filled any forms for me tho, not sure if that’s something they do.

KFC will most likely pay this, but it won't be quick. They aren't going to pull money out of a cash drawer and hand it over. Think at least a few weeks to make it through their internal processes, more likely a month or two.  Suing or acting rudely to the GM and those above her will more likely than not, slow things down.

I suggest you call once or twice a week, trying to get a step or two up the chain. Stay polite and business like for fastest results. Eventually you want to be connect to someone in their 'risk management group' (or similar name.) This is the person who will eventually send you a check.

You can ask the bank for details on each transaction, including how it was authorized. If something was signed, they should have copies. If it was online, theres usually a log. Thats going to give you something objective to work with.

Gotcha. If it was a close friend, I'd say sure, borrow my car, but I realize that would be very dumb in this situation. I did talk to him about making a contract like you said. But I'm not gonna create a lean or take him to small claims court if he dissapears or anything over a few hundred dollars.

What a curious fellow. Thank you for keeping the many many people who have bothered to follow this thread amused. Without folks like you, Reddit would be incredibly dull. :-)

Not legal but you may have a degree in your name I’d find that out and if it was a decent one I may need a reprint lmao

Im not sure you personally have anything to do. The roommate who had stuff thrown away could probably sue for reimbursement, but that is about all there is.

You can look up the home ownership on your county auditor’s website.

What forms do you use? I saw the W-8BEN and also another one. But if you're not living in Canada they might be different as well

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Medical Malpractice**

Medical malpractice is very fact specific and it is unfortunately beyond the scope of this subreddit.  We recommended you speak with a medical malpractice attorney; your local or state bar referral service may be able to refer you to one. They typically work on contingency, meaning there is little up front cost to you. Similarly, consultations are often free. It wouldn't hurt to meet with one, have them look over your records, and go from there. You should be aware that many states have very short statutes of limitation for medical malpractice, so delaying contacting an attorney could be detrimental or fatal to your case.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Voice recordings and so on

I don’t know about your state.  If you have a union speak to them, but I would hire a lawyer on the side someone that has ties to your state education department good luck and hang in there.

Do report this to police. You need to know if the dog is up to date on rabies vaccine; even if it is, it should be isolated and observed for at least 2 weeks. Tell Doirdash also. They should put a warning on this account.

To double back on the tires, I mean tires that have spacers too big and stick out past fenders both fail but he wont let us fail for.

I had wanted to get it taken down last year, but it was too expensive so I wanted to save up some money to take care of it this year, but mother nature had other plans.

This sentence right here most likely makes you liable for damage on both sides. Your neighbor at least has a decent argument that you neglected to remedy the situation before. Be glad it didn’t hit their house. 

I went so far as to schedule a local tree service to remove the tree debris from both of our properties, but my neighbor refused to sign their terms and conditions because the tree company has an exception in their liability for damage to his driveway, and they would need to drive a skid loader on his driveway to move tree debris to the wood chipper.

I don’t blame your neighbor one bit on this. I wouldn’t let a company drive heavy machinery on my property with a “not our problem” clause. 

I ended up calling my insurance, they only cover any debris on my property and recommended my neighbor talk to his homeowners insurance. 

They can recommend that, but you’re probably still on the hook for the cost. Your neighbor doesn’t HAVE to do anything with their insurance in this situation. Insurance is for catastrophic problems which is sounds like this is not. 

My neighbor has been rude with everyone involved in this

Ok … but it sounds a lot like something that was your problem to fix has now crossed into their problem to deal with. Can’t say I blame them, I’d probably be pretty pissed too.

I agree with the others, a real entry level job isn’t going to be sending you large amounts of money like this.

Unfortunately because it was fairly recent and contract language may deem you as a liability, it might’ve been acceptable by your old company ownership but sadly the new company standards/metrics may still consider you an active liability. You’ve landed in the land of technicalities unfortunately. And DUI’s man they are such a huge thing to linger on your record. It really sucks cause it sounds like you turned your life around but sadly it’s not always enough. I almost lost out on a huge opportunity cause of speeding tickets from 15 years ago but the points were still active. Had to call the state capital and everything just to have some points I got as young dumb kid. 

Have you considered careers abroad?

Thanks. I'm for sure highly aware of that, which is why I'm not trying to loan him the car without making sure I'm legally protected. He is ready to get insurance, tags, inspection, etc., but he doesn't have the budget for those and the car outright, which is partially why I'm trying to work with him on some sort of payment plan if I can do that while protecting myself. Perhaps there's another way to do it idk.

that’s pretty rough that they just went straight to a lump deduction. A lot of public employers will do that for overpayments, but you can usually still ask HR/payroll for a repayment plan if the hit is too big all at once

About as special as your jewelry, or an ASU degree :)

that advice makes sense for prevention. But since it’s already down, it’s more about where it originated and how insurance wants to split responsibility

This is no different than any other rental situation, except who you pay rent to is changing in the middle of your lease.  Your options are largely the same as they are in any other rental situation.

The difference might be if the new owners want to end your lease early.  In that case, you've got negotiation options -- you can say, "No thanks, I like it here and will be staying until the end of my lease," or, "Ok, I'd be willing to move out early, but only if there's something in it for me (full return of security deposit, moving costs covered, first month or two's rent at a new place covered, etc.)."

Did I reply to OP? No, I replied to the incorrect comment stating “if you’re paying for it then it’s yours for the time paid and you should have access to the property”. Never once said OP should pay.

that’s pretty much how it goes in most cases. Your lease should still hold until the end, but after that it’s really up to the new owners whether they keep renting it out or not

I figured, it sounded pretty wrong. Do you have any advice for moving forward?

Well isn't that special.

If I were your mom, I would've let myself be arrested if necessary and then appealed or escalated to higher courts.

If you go through teams you can have it set to record it and  notify all parties

Yes, it is legal because his name is on the title, allowing Indiana to treat the payout as his asset and place a lien on it.

The exact number is 538 and some change, plus ill need to have it tinted to match the other side

What??? Tons of people didn’t have a DUI before they got sober

This doesn’t make any sense. Your math ain’t mathin’, and a hospital can revoke your privileges, but they have no authority to take your license. That’s up to the state board, and if they already approved your license, and there’s been no actions taken against you, then they have no grounds to suspend/revoke.

Downvoting this post from a virus ridden clanker

"The landlord CANNOT move a different tenant in and then ask for the payment"

You mean the exact thing that the OP described as happening? You are astonishingly stupid and can't seem to read.  Take the loss and walk away.

If theres already a new tenant living there, your landlord generally cant double dip and collect rent from both of you for the same period. Thats a big red flag. Id push back on that.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Medical Malpractice**

Medical malpractice is very fact specific and it is unfortunately beyond the scope of this subreddit.  We recommended you speak with a medical malpractice attorney; your local or state bar referral service may be able to refer you to one. They typically work on contingency, meaning there is little up front cost to you. Similarly, consultations are often free. It wouldn't hurt to meet with one, have them look over your records, and go from there. You should be aware that many states have very short statutes of limitation for medical malpractice, so delaying contacting an attorney could be detrimental or fatal to your case.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

So they went through a legal adults phone whom they have no guardianship over and viewed and probably saved their sensitive adult only media, and are now trying to scare you with said consensual legal adult material. Which included you in the nude as well, I’m assuming? I’d be leading with that if they tried anything.

Don’t engage either of them at all. Anything you say can and will be used against you. Block and move on until you get some official paperwork (you won’t).

None of those laws matter in Eastern Michigan. Don't put yourself in the middle of that beef.

In Indiana, dogs are property, so proving the other dog initiated the attack, generally eliminates liability based on defense of property. The police report is huge evidence.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

This isn't the sub to find a lawyer in or to get a referral.

Try the CA state bar association website.

If you can't afford an attorney, ask to be appointed a public defender at your arraignment.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Possible Trolling**

* Your post here has been reported as a potential troll or falsified post. Please message the moderators through the link below with proof of some kind that this isn't a troll post. Your evidence will not be available for public viewing, it will only be reviewed by the moderators for the purposes substantiating your claims. 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Im pretty sure you could turn it in on insurance and let them deal with getting the money back, but that being said, get a few quotes on the glass.  $600 seems astronomical. Im currently looking to get the windshield on an Audi Q5 replaced and thats's going to cost $1200, including the dealer charging to recalibrate the camera. Ik windshields are one of the cheaper windows to replace, but i dont imagin the quarter glass costing that much to have installed.

Please see a doctor in case you are doing these things but have no recollection of it. Sure, your BF could be doing this to you, but you need to also explore the possibility that you need medical attention.

I would be furious if a tree fell on my property that was dead for a while.

but i think it would be a nice gesture.

No, you don't and nobody believes you do.

Yes, that *can* constitute harassment.

A PSC can protect Medicaid eligibility if structured right, but it wont automatically shield her Section 8 or SSI since housing programs look at household income and assets diferently.

Oh man, okay. Thank you so much for informing me; you’ve been incredibly helpful💗

Ask for the materials.

The materials being ordered before permit approval is pretty standard practice actually. Most fence companies do this to keep projects moving since permits can take weeks or months sometimes

  
Your contract clearly states 33% cancellation fee so legally they're probably in right to keep that amount. The timing with permits doesn't really change what you agreed to in contract. Sorry about your family situation though, that's really tough timing with everything

The real problem here is this man and his relationship to your family. You have learned something not only about what he thinks of you (and your mother), but about him. His reaction to this is…to threaten to sue you? IMHO, your mother should divorce this guy ASAP. What benefit could one get from remaining married from someone who so disparages you and your child? When people show you who they are, believe them the first time. 

You said he was “staying” in the VT house you own with your mother. It is unclear if the three of you live together or if he and your mother live separately and he was just staying there to pet sit or watch the house or something. If he is living in a home owned by you and your mother, it is pretty clear what he is getting out of the arrangement. Why tolerate this bozo who dislikes you and is taking advantage of you?

You have also learned how he is going to react to a divorce proceeding: angrily and with AI, Esq. giving him advice. You and your mother should lock down any individual assets immediately. She should withdraw her half of any joint accounts and move them to a different financial institution. Change any beneficiaries on any accounts or insurance policies. It sounds like he is her second husband, so maybe their assets are separate anyway. Then give him the boot.

1. No, not to my knowledge. If he is it’s something she did behind my back but I highly doubt it. 
2. I don’t recall this ever being part of it. I just see “Primary Disability O-Autism”
3. No

This. Also a landlord (though in PA). If the unit is rented before the previous lease is up, you cannot charge rent to the previous tenant. Its very strict here.

It sounds like you own some fencing materials. It is common to order materials while the permitting process is on going. If you waited for the permit before ordering the material, the jobs would take significantly longer

No, rolling in glass to make smooth custom art necklaces lol

Yes, but the law allows that. Conviction history is not a protected class.

Just to help you in the future, you mentioned this will be your first job in another comment I think. Remote, entry level jobs are pretty much non existent and in EXTREMELY high demand. Unless you know someone who can get you the job, or have an extremely impressive educational background, finding a remote entry level job is pretty much impossible. Assume anything you see like that will be a scam. WFH white collar jobs are pretty much only going to highly desired established industry professionals. Engineers, sales, stuff like that.

Point me out where anything I said was wrong? Happy to hop on a zoom call and show you you’re an idiot. I’m probably one of the only people here who actually practices law and is a landlord, getting downvoted by a bunch of uneducated idiots

I would keep at it.  Missing an email or not responding for a day or so is not great but not unheard of, i'd give it a week and continually following up politely.  If you can swing it just pay for the glass and seek restitution, then after no response or refusal move forward with small claims.

You finish your lease and hope the new owners continue to rent it out (not likely). I would start looking for a new place to live tbh especially if the new owners offer you a buyout of your existing lease or something

You need to immediately call your bank, lock your credit down with the reporting agencies.

You are living proof of that. It's rare for people like you to admit that sort of carelessness. Attaboy!

AI post. "Before I got sober, I had a DUI." Well no shit.

Yep, I am making a brand new account tomorrow as soon as I can😖😓

Hard to get into a conversation with someone that has an account that’s 14 days old, seems to have a sketchy timeline and fails to understand licensure.  You need an employment attorney.  Your salary range in The State of Washington would be between $97,000 to $120,000 yearly.  You can afford it.  DUI’s and a 12 Step plan put you into a special category of being a privileged WOKE entitled employee.  Hospitals really do not merge.  They are absorbed.  Anyone without a nursing license from the acquired entity is considered a liability.  Cannot tell you how many medical professionals I work with wear the triangle symbol that represents the three AA legacies of recovery, service, and unity around their necks like they were walking into a Vampire convention.  Or a politician.

Tenant didn't terminate. LL asked if they were renewing, they said no, LL asked if they would vacate by 6/1 to facilitate a new tenant that LL already had on board.

Understood. You can ask, but that's not likely going to happen. 

They're counting on you and the other tenants to settle to avoid the hassle of suing/getting sued. If you go after them, you'll need to front your legal costs and it could be months to years before the matter is resolved.

If the situation is egregious, take it to a local property/regulatory attorney and see what they think. Maybe you and the other tenants can flex that way.

A lawyer who has handled such a case is very crucial for the matter

I hope they win it! I’m a layperson and I’ll add that the roommate needlessly dumpstered the whole situation. I’d cut off the roommate and that worker (if I still had a job there).

I know premeditation is just a first step, but it’s not like they were going to bring a gun or knife to work.

If this had been a live healthy tree, it’s his tree and his problem now.

Because it was dead, you can be liable for removal. If he approaches you again, tell him
you will pay for removal.

If the lease still had time, and payments were current, then almost certainly what they did was illegal. Going in and  throwing away stuff in a unit that is still bring leased im sure is nkt allowed in any state.

Reading comprehension is hard for Reddit:/

Guy sounds unhinged.  I would file a PPO

Tell your brother to check his credit too. I bet you're not the only one that's accumulated fraudulent debt...

You meed to up your efforts. Its unfortunate but sometimes nagging gets the notion across that you wont go away. Start calling 2-3 times a day, leaving voicemails, send a text message as follow up. Start calling other local locations and ask if coordinator is at your store today? Its a urgent matter.

Good luck on this.

Do I need to register or title it first?

Document document document and when they tell you something crazy, send an email to them directly following up so they have to address it / deny it

If you provided your bank account info I would also closely monitor your account. Depending on where you bank, you may be able to have them issue you a new account number. It's probably going overboard, if they take any money it will eventually be reversed, but idk if you can afford to be out that money when it's being reviewed

I was born in 1998 and I have a lot of unpaid credit cards in collections with accounts charged before 2003. Obviously not mine. I gave up trying to fix my credit. Now I just ask the collection agency callers: **Why you gave a credit card to an irresponsible 5 year old child?** Then they leave me alone for a couple of weeks until another agent takes over.

What do you hope to achieve by spreading this info?

Not in this situation.

Texas has a victims' rights law (similar to other states) that says a victim has the right to be informed about certain criminal proceedings (like sentencing) and to submit victim impact statements. But many of these rights only kick in if the victim requests notification. So it may be that this time you requested notification and didn't in early cases. Or this DA is simply notifying you given the severity of the crime, and other DAs didn't.   
   
Since you know who the DA is, you could call and ask about submitting a victim impact statement or attending the sentencing hearing. You could also ask if it's likely he'll receive jail time. The DA will know the sentencing laws and the specifics of the case and can hopefully give you an idea. Also, most DA offices have a victim services division and staff that can help guide you. You can often find them through the DA's office (by calling or going online). Or try contacting the Victim Services Unit for the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.

I see, thank you sm for telling me the difference.💗

Go get a lawyer should be an auto-bot first comment for this entire sub.

Definitely talk to your professor.  I adjunct teach one class a year and I'd be fine with a student in this situation just submitting their old work if they talked to me about it.  

However, remember that you are PAYING for the course, both in money and time.  I'm constantly amazed that some students are looking to get the least possible education for their investment.  Do not cheat yourself and waste your money and time by "checking the box" without actually learning the stuff.  Can you remember half the things you learned in class 2 years ago?  When I was a student, I could not.  You might be better off at least deeply reviewing your old work before submission.  Then consider how you might improve it or remind yourself of the pain of it's original creation.  This way, you're maximizing the learning you get for your $$$$.

Either way, ask your instructor - for a CS class, they probably care way way less about so-called "self-plagiarism" than someone teaching a writing or research class.

Yeah, you definitely still have to do the worksheet. When I had to deal with an uncontested matter in Indiana, the court clerk kicked my paperwork back twice just because a formatting line wasn't exactly what the judge wanted

I helped a client purchase a home with a fenced yard and a dead tree just on the other side of it. She was concerned)rightly so) so we consulted the closing attorney. Their advice was to first have a friendly conversation with the neighbor and if they had no plan for action then send them a registered letter expressing the concern. That alone would have given her the right to take legal action for any future damage. Doesn’t sound like that happened here.

Yes you are responsible, for both the tree removal and the damage to his property. And you’re responsible for him being angry too, because you should have taken care of that tree before it became a danger. So make nice, and pay what you owe.

Sure you can reach out and see what your options are.

This has the potential be one of those no good deed goes unpunished situations.  1. You lease him the car and he disappears and never pays you.  2. he has some sort of accident.  Car and insurance are in your name.  They come after you first and you get the pleasure of sorting it out.  

He will need more than the $600.  He will need money for sales tax, tag, title and insurance also.  NC is one of those states that will send a trooper to get the tag off the vehicle for no insurance.  Chances are he will use your address and then they come visit you.  

You sound like a good and caring person.  Whatever you do make sure you protect yourself.

there was still plenty of time on the lease, about a month

Get a lawyer first if necessary. Surrender nothing! Total BS

So from the leasing office standpoint I have one other follow-up question: the day they went in and started throwing out stuff, was the lease over at that time? Or was there still time on the lease?

Not to encourage harrassment, moreso to let people in the area know & be aware of who their neighbors are.

Which translates into, "I have no legitimate reason for doing this and I hope other people in the neighborhood harasses this guy." If you end up getting harassment charges, no one is going to be surprised. If you play stupid games, you could win stupid prizes.

I have asked them over email if we could do a payment plan and it was never addressed. Fortunately, my work doesn't end with the school year.

Man, I feel so naive😓, thank you so much for letting me know!

The gm was entirely unhelpful. She told me she would reach out to her area coordinator, who would then have the appropriate department contact me, but that she couldn't do anything else for me because she had no idea what to do. The next day I went in person to speak with her again, since I hadn't heard anything back. She informed me that the AC asked her to have me contact him (im not entirely sure how she planned to communicate that information to me, since I had to come back in person to hear it 🙄) I have since been unable to reach him for a second day in a row, so at this point I have left 2 voicemails on his phone, and not heard a single word on the matter. 

Unfortunately I do not have comprehensive insurance, and will have to pay for the repair out of pocket. 

I really appreciate your thurough advice! This whole situation has been a fucking nightmare.

No real company is going to send you funds to buy equipment. 

Either you're an employee and they'll send you your equipment, laptop, phone, printer, etc. 

Or you're an independent contractor and you'll buy your own equipment.

Some companies will give you a small expense allowance to buy things like monitors, keyboard, mice, etc. But you buy them and submit expenses and are reimbursed. But all laptop, phones, tablets, etc are company owned and managed. 

This is a scam, 100%

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

You’re not married, WHY would you allow him to have full access and control of your accounts and finances????? 

Things you should do: 

✨ make sure he’s not drugging you. Go see a doctor to get checked out.
✨ open a brand new account with a different bank without telling him. Transfer all your money to the new account  and set up all activities to send you a text message directly to your phone and email. Change all passwords. 
✨ he most likely have your signature saved as an image file as to explain why all these documents have your signature s on them 
Better yet. Create a new secret email and use it to receive alerts and activities. Any transfer of money will be notified to you 
✨ set up direct deposit to new account 
Transfer all your money to new account 
✨ put a note in your new account that only you have access to it and not to link this account to a different account 
💥 breakup with your boyfriend. The trust factor is no longer there. He will continue to drug you and make you feel paranoid and make you lose a sense of reality. 
A good partner will make you feel safe and secure, and not one who will make you doubt your self. 
If it’s the D*ck you want, there’s plenty of men out here 😜🤣 
💥💥💥 never ever give someone full access to your accounts again !

First Amendment/Community Connections.

Yeah it was for like pay raises and jail renovations afaik so LEO’s are kinda bitter

This is 100% a scam. Do not send them any money they deposit into your account. These funds will be reversed later by your bank as stolen, and then you'll be out the funds.

The lender may or may not do a judgement search before extending you credit. I can’t say for sure

Not to encourage harrassment, moreso to let people in the area know & be aware of who their neighbors are. But could they twist it that direction?

His father said he didn’t want anything from the settlement and wants all of it to go to my child so i guess it doesn’t matter.

Plaintiffs bar is notorious for giving free consultations - use them for this.  There are too many factors (sale terms, identity of seller, contract terms, etcetera); leverage the accident/injury bar ti evaluate his specific situation.

I gave them my account number, and now they are asking about what my daily deposit limit is to see if the equipment check will go through. Exact words: “If the check exceeds your daily limit, your bank will reject the deposit, delaying your start date and equipment delivery.”

They’re allowed to ask for it back and even do a payroll adjustment to accommodate it. But their calculation should be cognizant of taxes as well. If it were me, I’d request that they break it out over a few paychecks rather than all at once. If your work year ends with the school year, you might be SOL.  But it’s not unreasonable to ask them to spread it out.

If the info is already public, it’s usually not considered doxxing. But if they’re sharing it specifically to encourage harassment, that’s a different story

Well they’re alleging more that she may have something other than depression? At least it’s the impression they’re giving me. They keep saying she has a “psychiatric disorder” that makes her impulsive. But they never disclosed what that was, and from what she has told me before all of this went down the only thing I know for sure she has is depression. Like one of the comments above mentioned, unless they have legal guardianship over her, then it should be fine, right? As far as I know they don’t. Which is why I’m more inclined to believe they’re bluffing about the whole thing.

Either gift him the car with a bill of sale and title, or sell it to him with a bill of sale and title. Immediately file with the state your a change of ownership form and return the plates.

The main issue here is that you are trying to be kind, but in no way managing your risks. There would be no reality that I could recommend creating liability for yourself over $600. 

There isn't anything against the law about lending your car out assuming the driver is insured (in this case through your insurance) and has a valid license. However, should he get in a wreck, commit a crime, or injure someone you could be held financially liable. 

You could also create a simple sales contract with periodic payments, sell the car to him and file a lien on the title -- but again that is a lot of effort for such a low $ amount. And being able to exercise that lien in the event of non-payment would 1) cost most of that $600 and 2) likely be unrecoverable due the person being indigent. 

And if they are indigent it is unlikely they would ever be able to afford keeping valid registration and insurance on the automobile even if free which will create a huge cycle of legal harassment upon them.

I would love to see the landlord try to explain in court why they expected you to pay rent for a dwelling that was already occupied by someone else.

The comment I responded to said nothing about it being occupied by another tenant. The comment said “if you’re paying for it then it’s your for the time paid and you should have full access to the property”, which is wrong. Reddit has low IQ and can’t read.

Like I could see maybe having a joint account just for the household bills if you live together but if you don’t? No.

And what did the GM say?

Law firms are turning you down because the amount involved is too little for them to get involved.

If store management/ownership doesn't offer to make you whole, send a demand letter via certified mail to the franchise owner along with the police report and invoice demanding they make you whole in 10 days (or some other short timeframe). If they don't, file a lawsuit in small claims court. You don't need a lawyer.

It's also possible that incident is covered via your auto insurance policy's comprehensive coverage. But that will require a conversation with your insurer to determine whether they'd pursue subrogation and whether you'd get your deductible back. Unless your deductible is way lower than the repair cost this may not be an attractive option, though it saves you the time and effort of demand letters and court.

Ideally, you'd wait to file suit until after the criminal case is resolved since if the employee is found guilty it'll strengthen your civil case against the franchise owner (or against them and the employee).

I do feel his ex was hoping he would just give up trying to see their child. She has told him to just leave them to live their lives. She also chose to bring this conversation up on his birthday after him asking to speak with them that day. As someone who had a dead beat pretty much absent father for my kid I wouldn't choose to lay up with a man doing the same. I see how much this hurts him. Even last year she stopped visits for 3 months straight including his visit that landed on his bday. I honestly don't care about down votes I'm not a regular on here. I just came here looking for advice, not judgement or to air anyone's past or dirty laundry.

What are they asking you about your bank account?

Record everything then sue then into 2032.

It’s an administrative assistant position, so they’re asking me to record any orders, respond to emails, setting up calendar schedules, etc. This would be my first job, so I’m not really sure what is the norm..😓😅

Not much. I don't have comprehensive coverage, so ill be paying for the glass repair out of pocket.

Nothing the landlord is doing is unlawful. It's not even shady. It's their prerogative as to when they accept applications. A lot of landlords don't do advance applications because they can't guarantee the previous tenant is going to be moved out. If that happens, then they have a holdover tenant they have to deal with and likely have to go through the application process all over again.

Right?? Sharing a bank account with a boyfriend you don't even live with is so strange, it actually made me wonder if this was posted by a chatbot. Because why would someone do that if they aren't even splitting household bills?

You actually could, in this case where you knew the tree was a problem and did nothing, be liable. 

But this person has given you no reason to talk to him. Disengage. Get the tree removed if he sues.

NAL

1. Is he currently receiving disability benefits? Its hard to get those unless the disability is profound.

2.The disability code in the IEP and school records will provide more information on the extent of the disability (profound, mild).

3. Are there medical records of any kind that supports that he will/will not be able to live independently? 

(If it were me, and i had the funds, id help him get a job, pay his damage deposit and help with rent and furniture and  ensure he can live independently first and foremost... because that puts the kid first and also collects evidence.. cause if he can't do it.. then I know for sure what I need to do to help out with).

What did your insurance say?

Have you been able to figure it out at all? I’m currently considering this for my father in North Carolina but unsure where to even begin

Then I would demand the people living in my apartment through June vacate in 24hrs. The landlord asked them to move out a month early to get a new tenant in. They put the new tenant in June 1. There is no court that is going to make them pay the June rent since landlord requested they vacate and landlord also has a new tenant in for the entirety of the last month. If you’re paying for the space they have to maintain access to it for you. They cannot make you pay for the space and comp a tenant a a month of rent.

I would talk to the current resident to see if the landlord is trying to double dip. I’d also maintain all texts/emails/paperwork.

Probably a scam. What exactly are they asking you to do? What type of “job” is it?

Yes I realized after I posted and I can’t actually edit the title 😭

I've done the form for several local attorneys, but none have called me back.

Wtf is the point of AI posts like this. Like honestly, WHY

I already spoke to the manager, who was entirely unhelpful. She contacted their area coordinator, who told her to have me contact him, but that was not communicated to me until I went in person again the next day. Today marks day 2 of trying to reach the area coordinator, but only reaching his voicemail.

You're ignoring FACA.

While you're checking, create free accounts at each Experian.com, equifax.com, and transunion.com and freeze your credit. That will prevent anyone from using your SSN again. When you need to use it yourself, just login and unfreeze it the day before.

I swear, something should be done about it

This might be the most useful thing I've heard. Because that actually makes sense why I'm not getting a call back or any traction with them. 

Thank you.

I do not, if she is it was never brought to my attention.

But the comment you responded to was in fact correct. The landlord cannot require payment and then deny access to the property.

Consider going online to look for probate attorney who specializes in real estate. Go to their website and they often have a form to fill out online. Then someone contacts you by phone to let you know if they handle this kind of thing.

$600 is small claims. Your local court will have more info on that process, it doesn't require a lawyer

And I would first exhaust any other remedies. Contact the manager, owner of the franchise, corporate.

Check to ensure that the number the call came from is associated with a court clerk.

Now that you have the temporary order, the law requires notice to the restrained party before court can issue the full protection order. 

* If he doesn’t respond, the judge may issue the full protection order without hearing his side of the story. 
* If he does respond, you can still get the full protection order, but you’ll likely have to attend the hearing and testify. 

In either instance, you can present the additional evidence to support your request for the full protection order.

Talk to your free DV attorney or advocate and ask questions on how the process works. They can help you navigate the court process. If you need additional support, they might be able to help you with a safety plan, find a shelter, or refer you to other helpful organizations. 

WashingtonLawHelp.org also has information online about requesting a protection order. Finally, know that you can report a violation of a temporary protection order to police just like a full protection order.

No law firm is going to handle a case with $600 in damages.  You need to read up on your state's small claims court process.  This will almost certainly include sending a demand letter to the KFC's legal agent, after which I predict you will be paid.

I haven't even been able to speak with a lawyer yet. Ive been sending info about the situation via their website. 

If I have to, I will take the employee to small claims court and get her to pay for it, but frankly I'd rather hold the corporate entity accountable if I can. I realize it might sound silly, seeing as she broke my window, but I don't necessarily feel great (morally speaking) about the prospect of suing a fast food employee.

The problem with the lawyer is you don’t seem to have anything to ask for. No loss to pursue.

Completely agree, but people are just saying straight up if you don’t have possession of the unit then they can’t charge OP and that’s wrong

that statement is correct :
"handing over keys did not release you from the contract"

In this case Landlord actual requested the lease termination by having someone move in in June not OP.

Yes, that’s an entirely different situation that was not mentioned in my comment

Thanks for response, and basically a higher amount given the massive mishandling that’s rendered my shower unusable for a month.

Landlord came back with a tenant for June!  OP did not ask to terminate early.   Landlord cannot legally ask for termination fee or for June rent!

I agree that landlord can’t ask for rent since they moved someone in. I am just saying that people are saying handing over keys early means you don’t have to pay rent through end of lease are wrong. Two different things

Landlord came back with a tenant for June!  OP did not ask to terminate early.   Landlord cannot legally ask for termination fee or for June rent!

No advice. Just: man, this dude has some kind of issue and was triggered hard. It seems like he had ideas about gender roles, and anything outside that threaten him. His response seemed unhinged, and it’s possible even he realizes that to some degree. So, now you know what topics aren’t productive to discuss with/around him.

Landlord came back with a tenant for June!  OP did not ask to terminate early.   Landlord cannot legally ask for termination fee or for June rent!

Landlord came back with a tenant for June!  OP did not ask to terminate early.   Landlord cannot legally ask for termination fee or for June rent!

Yup.. doesn’t surprise me the Reddit lawyers don’t know though. Unless the LL agreed to terminate the lease, rent is still due whether you hand over keys early or not.

Do you know if she has been receiving disability payments?

Landlord came back with a tenant for June!  OP did not ask to terminate early.   Landlord cannot legally ask for termination fee or for June rent!

Landlord came back with a tenant for June!  OP did not ask to terminate early.   Landlord cannot legalky ask for termination fee or for June rent!

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Duplicate Post** 

Your post has been removed because it is a near or exact duplicate of a previous post.  Do not repost unless you have permission from the mods to do so.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Have any of the lawyers mentioned suing the individual employee? If they are convicted, they may have to pay restitution.

We sent 311 photos of the flooding and the cement washout and I just left a message for a real estate lawyer. My husband and I are both teachers and it looks like our summer school money is going towards that instead of our original plans.

I believe you have two questions hidden in there since being "sealed" isn't the same question immigration is asking. Being sealed may prevent foreign immigration officials from looking up your family member's record (assuming they have access), but it doesn't alleviate the issue around the issue of disclosing their conviction(s).

Example: Japan

**Immigration Question:** Have you had any history of being convicted of a crime. 

They would be required to disclose their criminal history, or lie and be willing to face possible consequences if they are caught lying (unvoluntary hold for several days, deportation and lifetime travel ban).  There are no exceptions for sealed or even expunged convictions (unless political).

Even the bellow issues are likely to result in refusal of entry.   

"A person who has been convicted of a violation of any law or regulation of Japan, or of any other country, and has been sentenced to imprisonment with or without work for 1 year or more, or to an equivalent penalty...

or "A person who has been convicted of a violation of any law or regulation of Japan or of any other country relating to the control of narcotics, marijuana, opium, stimulants or psychotropic substances, and has been sentenced to a penalty."

  
Other countries can be a bit more lenient on the level of conviction, but disclosing past convictions and them being sealed are two different things. Regardless, it is up to your family member how important the trip is, versus the risk lying to immigration and getting caught. That is really an individual choice.

Actually not.  tenant told LL they were not renewing!

tenant did not ask to be out early.   Landlord found  a tenant for June start.   Lease termination fee and June rent are not legally allowed to be collected. Landlord requested then to move out early.

Ask for proof of original debt. If you don’t know what it is, whoever placed the garnishment should have mailed you something.with explanation long before a garnishment happened. This can also be another persons debt with the same name . Check your credit report and see if it’s on there. I personally have been called and asked for by name but the reality was the debt belonged to a former relative only by marriage. Then the caller swears they asked for the former relatives name. I called them out on their lie and reported them for harassment. Another thing is this could be something you paid for already and the garnishment is a scam.

I am a union member and she ignored our contract… My question is do I have a fighting chance if I go to the union and file a grievance?

Sounds like it

Ok, thank you. I've reached out to a few on their consultation forms, but I haven't gotten any callbacks. I'm only able to work on this outside of my work hours, which is outside of their office hours so I can't call. I assumed maybe they were the wrong type of lawyer?

Don't. Consult an attorney. The court has free help.

Ask them to draft an agreement for you.

Please have him read that letter out loud, and to use his big boy logic!  You can’t demand payment and trespass you in the same sentence.  He is looking to double dip, ignore and tell him to sue you

LL told them they doing a tenant for June.  LL returned security deposit.  LL found tenant for June, leesee  moved out early to accommodate.  Therefore no termination fee and no June rent owed.

It's good for finding websites like google used to.

They said it was civil and they won't be able to investigate but to find an attorney.

Did she have a will?

If she didn’t have a will it’s a formula to split it between your father and her children, it doesn’t automatically all go to your father. You might have to probate her estate too to resolve the car.

What in the incomprehensible AI slop is this?

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Requesting Outside Contact** 

Requesting or offering private messages or chats is against the rules of this subreddit.  Please review the following rule before commenting further

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Call the sheriff and the landlord to come out at the same time for illegal occupancy

You can report a wage claim with NC Department of Labor. Except for very limited educational situations associated with a college/trade school program, there's no such (legal) thing as "unpaid apprentice". If you did work, you get paid.

You can report crimes to your local PD or Sheriff.

You’ve got to go through the DMV to fix it. Start here and see if you’d be allowed to complete the process on the estate’s behalf

If not, you’ll have to do the other transfer process

AI doesn’t drink. Stop feeding it.

This is exactly what I took away from the post. Some kind of AI rendered one?

This is false. You can hand over keys early but still be required to pay rent through lease end. Fairly common.

Landlord here.

Even if the new tenants aren't paying rent until July, the LL choose to move then in early (he is using the place for his benefit) and you are in no way obligated to pay June. Just stop responding to your previous Landlord until you are being sued or he tries to put it on your credit report.  If they do either then you fight.

There isn’t anything you can do really

Do you think I would be unable to trade it in? It’s not in collections on my Credit Karma report. Sorry for the dumb questions

Yeah, good point. I suppose a DUI could be seen as evidence of somebody with an addiction.  Not sure why I got downvoted for asking but whatever. Lol.

This is very helpful, thank you

Thank you for your help, I appreciate this very much

In a recent email to my wife, he declared that his current girlfriend will be his executor and that my sons must view a video from him when they turn 22 (the year 2040) in order to claim the inheritance he's leaving for them.

If your FIL wants to create a trust that is distributed to your sons when they are 22 years old, on the condition that they watch a video, he can likely do that. 

My sons have never met this man. They don't know he exists. We can only guess what he might say in this video, but he would surely throw us under the bus and make himself a martyr.

What does it matter? Your sons will bw grown men at that point. 

When he dies, what are our options to claim the estate? 

None if there is valid will or trust and he didn't leave anything to yoi. 

We're willing to let the money go if it's a nightmare,

From what you said, the money will be left to your sons, not you. 

 >but I would like to add this money to our existing trust for our boys, never revealing the source.

It's not your money. 

My wife and brother-in-law have been subjected to a lifetime of trouble from this man. We don't need the money. 

It sounds like he isn't leaving you money.  Your sons can make that decision for themselves when they are adults. 

But I think it's worth going to court if necessary to unshackle my sons from a ticking time bomb that will go off in 14 years.

By that, you mean they have to watch a video?

The man has the right to leave something to his grandkids if he wants. He could also change his mind and leave nothing. Your specific concern is confusing.

Okay, I will call the non-emergency line tomorrow and ask for their input, and I will look into civil suits. Thank you for your input, it is greatly appreciated

Wow. It's illegal to take something without permission, right? I don't know why you're hung up on me using that word when it's perfectly valid. And ridiculing my position, nonetheless.

But anyway, when I sent the demand letter, I expected their response to be a middle ground. That's how negotiations work.

The point of this post was to see what remedies I have if they don't negotiate in good faith to repair their mistake.

The bank definitely knows where it is. The impound lot wants their money, so they contact the title holder for it. Tell the bank to release it, and you will pick it up.

NDAs are quite common with settlement agreements. In exchange for whatever they're offering you agree to keep some stuff confidential.

It being CA, I expect that there are some laws in this area. I'd check to see what the scope of the NDA is and whether there are carve-outs for things like compelled disclosure pursuant to a court or government inquiry.

Take it to a CA contracts attorney and have them review it.

I doubt they'll accept redlines from you. What else do you want that's not included in their "concession"?

If he wants to charge you for the month of June the he needs to have the tenants move out and move back in on July 1st. I wouldn’t be paying for someone else to live there. Your landlord has lost his mind.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. **Do not make a second post.** Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

The storage facility is responsible.

Only a handful of states prohibit rate increases for not-at-fault claims and Maryland isn't one of them. OP's rates might go up for this claim.

i bought clothing from the online store and found out after i bought it from anyone i can see talking about it the clothes will never arrive and there is no way to cancel the order and returns are not possible because they do not respond to emails.

But importantly, there was no contract signed. Just an estimate for work. That i never signed either. No authorization for them to charge my card.

The people saying you should have had access through June if you are required to pay rent are wrong. It is fairly common to hand over keys for early move out, required to pay rent thru lease, but no liability/obligation to keep utilities on. But they are right that owner can’t double dip

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**AI-Generated**

Your comment has been removed because it appears to be generated by artificial intelligence or you have recommended that someone use it.  While AI can provide helpful information, it is not appropriate for legal advice for the following reasons:

1. **Lack of Accountability**: AI-generated content cannot be held accountable for the information it provides. Legal advice must come from a licensed professional who can be held responsible for their guidance.

2. **Accuracy and Relevance**: Legal matters are complex and often require personalized advice based on specific facts and circumstances. AI-generated responses may not fully understand or address the nuances of your situation.

3. **Ethical and Professional Standards**: Legal professionals adhere to strict ethical standards and continuing education requirements to ensure they provide accurate and current advice. AI does not meet these professional standards.

4. **Potential Harm**: Relying on incorrect or generalized legal advice can have serious consequences, including legal liability or harm to your case. It is crucial to seek advice from a qualified attorney who can provide tailored and reliable guidance.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**AI-Generated**

Your comment has been removed because it appears to be generated by artificial intelligence or you have recommended that someone use it.  While AI can provide helpful information, it is not appropriate for legal advice for the following reasons:

1. **Lack of Accountability**: AI-generated content cannot be held accountable for the information it provides. Legal advice must come from a licensed professional who can be held responsible for their guidance.

2. **Accuracy and Relevance**: Legal matters are complex and often require personalized advice based on specific facts and circumstances. AI-generated responses may not fully understand or address the nuances of your situation.

3. **Ethical and Professional Standards**: Legal professionals adhere to strict ethical standards and continuing education requirements to ensure they provide accurate and current advice. AI does not meet these professional standards.

4. **Potential Harm**: Relying on incorrect or generalized legal advice can have serious consequences, including legal liability or harm to your case. It is crucial to seek advice from a qualified attorney who can provide tailored and reliable guidance.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Totally AI. Only 14 days old. Timeline is crap. Also he is posting in an English based smurfs post using French. “Drinkie Smurf m'a toujours fait rire, surtout après
Bernie qui vire deux gens puis traite Howard d'impoli.” Check his comments

Sue. It's a federal offense to evade taxes.

Her kids are not exactly responsible adults. I do not want to be her executor. There’s really no debts she had or any large items. Just these cars, which I thought my dad would have automatically owned if she died before him.

That might solve the problem for sure

How were you scammed?

What did police do when you reported this apparent crime?

It was a service. Electric work for my house. That is why it is so much money. Lots of issues with project. Oh also... I received different letters from different divisions of Citi with wildly different reasons as to why they sided with merchant. One of the letters says that I never responded to their call on Jan. 4th or email on Jan. 6th. But the disputed transaction was on Jan. 18th, and i filed the dispute a few days later.

You keep blustering this “ILLEGAL!”  But 1. That word has a surprising amount of latitude in definition and still I find it hard to apply here, and, 2. If we apply it, so what?  What then?

You’re making a couple sort of classic mistakes. 

You seem to think that if you can hang that illegal tag you can shake them down for an extra $2k. Thats not so. If they’ve broken the law or the contract thats a reason to get back what you lost, not a doorway to free money. 

And you seem to think they’re not coming with a side. That at trial you’ll say “they didn’t make the lease payment, UH-LEGALLY NO LESS,” and they’re going to stammer and look sheepish.  The truth is they’ll say *something* that probably ends with “and we’re happy to pay the lease payment now and a reasonable late fee.”  And the arbitrator will turn to you and say “so why are we here?”

Also suggest saving up money for however much the judgment is and you can usually workout a deal for them to lower the original debt to get it paid off. Ignoring it will only make your problems worse and accrue interest, they will also be less likely to work with you when you need it.

You might grab some quick evidence like video or a picture of running water flowing in from their property or how their building is blocking runoff from yours whichever is the case and show someone in charge what's happening. They might be willing to deal with it without lawyers. But yes, if they're doing this to you and don't care, you will need a lawyer.

If you have collision coverage, you could file with your own insurance. You will have to pay your deductible but they will try to get that back (through subrogation) from the store's insurance. You say that you did a "report only" but that's not usually a thing in insurance unless you spoke to your agent instead of the claims department? For most insurance companies, if you called the claims department, then you filed a claim.

You can go through the store's insurance though commercial insurance can sometimes be slower to respond than personal insurance. You wouldn't have to pay any deductible if you go this way.

Whichever insurance you go through will have you take the car to a shop for an estimate. That estimate is only for the damage they can see because of state regulations. If/when additional damage is found during the repair, the shop will request a supplement payment to cover that damage. So don't panic if the original estimate seems low compared to the shop or your husband's estimate.

As for your rates, your state allows rate increases for a not-at-fault claim but there's no way to tell if your specific company will increase your rates until your next renewal. It doesn't matter which insurance company handles your claim because it shows on your CLUE report either way. If your insurance does increase your rates, find an independent broker to shop around for you. You don't pay brokers (the insurance companies pay them commissions) so it never hurts to have one shop around for you.

She really isn’t even paying for any programs or housing for him. Actually, he doesn’t technically even have a bedroom at her house. Until a few months ago he and his brother shared a bedroom (yes, 18yo young men). Now she gave him the lower room of their split level. Just a few steps down from the front door. Not even a door to his “room” for privacy.

alright, i purchased an hour ago but im positive now it wont come in, should i wait a bit before doing that or would it still work if i did it now?

You didn’t terminate early.  It sounds like the landlord offered to terminate early and you accepted.

Oh then nothing to worry about. As someone else said, they’d like go after any income you’re receiving but not physical property like a vehicle. 

If you’re really worried then sure transfer it to your husband.

Assuming you paid by credit card, you can dispute the charge with your bank should they never ship the item.

Be aware that it will keep coming up for years, but in lesser amounts over time. We had a similar situation. We find a bit more every time it rains. And while there is still a laceration hazard, weathered glass has usually duller edges.

It's one of those companies that says they can save you from foreclosure. He initially wanted me to deed him the house back in November. But since there was no probate he said it had to be through an affidavit of heirship. And I told him not seemed sketchy. 

But I guess at the same time he was also moving someone into the house? Because I told him I wanted nothing to do with it, he thought I wouldn't find out. 

He has no relation to my mom.

Visit 

This is the federally authorized site for obtaining your free credit reports.

A video would work if there is clear audio but gotta be clear audio

I’m sorry for your loss. The car dealerships are correct, they need more than a death certificate to know that you’re authorized to sell the car on behalf of both your father and his wife. Is there a reason no one put her estate through probate already?

Credit Karma is free

Again, you can report this to law enforcement.  Law enforcement has discretion.  That means that they are not required to investigate or prosecute any particular complaint of misconduct.  So you can report this to law enforcement…but if they refuse to investigate/prosecute? There is no way to force them to do so.  Still, no harm in asking

And if the cops will not assist you can consider a civil harassment suit.

Check your local levy laws, our area does it constantly only it's the school districts or road taxes.

Filing a police report is a good idea to create an official record of the incident.

This is a very serious situation because your friend committed insurance fraud by lying to the police and her insurance company.

You're going to have to give a whole lot more detail around what you purchased and the nature of the dispute if you want a detailed response. Right now all that can pieced together is that you bought an unknown item at some point, had a unspecified disagreement with the merchant which may have resulted in additional charges, and then contacted Citi who may have rejected your argument for any number of unspecified potential reasons.

You likely need to clear the title through your father's estate probate process first, rather than trying to jump straight to putting it in a trust.

Yes, he graduated and has a diploma from the same hs as his brother. Walked just like any other graduate.

It would only come into play if you sell the car and they put a lien on that vehicle directly. OR if you try to get financing it’ll come up as a mark on your credit. BOA wants cash not assets.

They've already acknowledged that they owe us the amount designated to extend the primary term of the lease. 

I'm just trying to get compensation for the fact that they've been taking from our property without our consent for over a year.

It is almost always a good idea to at least get a free consultation with a local personal injury lawyer to see if your claim is worth pursuing.

You need to consult with a probate attorney who specializes in estate litigation.

You could check with your lawyer if you put the money into an ABLE or similar account for him while he’s with you and working, if that would honour any support commitments so the money would be there “to support the child” up to age 21 if he did need services- but would not be going to mom each month while he didn’t live with her and she stopped paying for programs and housing etc. for him.

You are going to be fine - one way or the other.  Keep being a friend of Bill’s no matter what.  If you need an employment lawyer, let me know.

This is the only accurate post that identifies what’s happening here, OP. Please read this. You’re being asked to surrender your clinical privileges, not your license. You were credentialed when you were hired by your hospital after you were licensed. You should hire an attorney who specializes in healthcare privileges - profession and state specific if possible.

NAL - you should get J reassessed through a credited autism institute. J clearly has executive function skills and doesn’t require accommodations and support services. Did J get a high school diploma? The school district has until age 21 to cover them under the IEP but not if they graduated.

You need to stop discussing the details of the incident on social media immediately, as these posts can be used against you in court.

Tell the landlord that if you are paying for June then you will “work from home” everyday there. And the current non-tenants will need to be out of the house everyday until 10pm. And you will be throwing a birthday party next weekend and a baby shower the weekend after that. And your little brother will need the guest room for a few days the following week as well. And your uncle will be working on his motorcycle in the garage. Wow, it’s great to have two places for a month! Will make our busy schedule easy with all the available room!

Yeah I finally found out what happened. The other driver is claiming that we were pulling away from the curb which is false since we were at the stop sign/cross walk waiting to turn right down the street with blinker on and oh by the way which had kids actively crossing. Because we don’t have a rear dash cam it became a he said she said scenario and we were found 50% at fault for something called improper lookout? Seems ridiculous that we can be found at fault when someone hits us from behind and we have a police report but I found out they rarely use those

This sounds worrisome. I think one of you definitely are having memory issues and they should definitely be looked at

When Citi first closed the matter, before I appealed and they re opened it, the customer services rep told me they had never heard back from the merchant

The person who hit your SO is going to be the one footing the bill here.

FL is a no fault, so OP's PIP coverage pays medical bills and lost wages up to $10k.

Also the at fault would need to have enough bodily injury coverage to pay the claim. FL requires $0 in bodily injury coverage and $10k minimum besides that, so OP could be very limited in terms of receiving compensation if the other is poorly insured.

So you think it was something else, not a restraining order? That was my guess. I’ve never been to the area where the court called me from.

He had a DUI 4.5 years before being licensed. 
He’s been licensed 6 years. 
He’s been sober 3 years. 
His DUI happened 10.5 years ago. 
Doesn’t say how long he’s been working at the hospital

A peace bond will avoid the risk and cost of a trial. It offers a predictable outcome with no criminal record. BUT a section 810 peace bond creates a permanent record that the police and Crown will always be able to access and see. No record suppression or pardon will cure that. It might be shared on future criminal record or vulnerable persons checks. If you are considering a PB ask for a common law PB. No regulations that make it a permanent record.

Your should revise your title - your daughter got bit, not your dog.

Who is doing it (their relationship to you and mom, not their name)?  What did police do when you reported this?

is that something that I would need a lawyer to prove or is that something 311 will notice and tell them to fix when they get out there?

I know exactly who it is, and have all the documents compiled on my drive. But I don't know what to do next, and attorneys keep telling me it's not their area. 

I didn't want the house or anything to do with her estate. I was told by probate attorneys I talked to back then that was the easiest way to protect me from her debt. And it was supposed to be foreclosed on in December. Then a continuance got filed, and it moved to January. Then February. And in March a non suit without prejudice was signed by the judge. 

The whole time, the house was being rented out, and I had no idea. I thought the banks were going to handle it.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

She has already made a collision claim, so the PIP claim for her medical bills (and lost wages!), which she needs to use in FL, won't make a difference, the claim is already there.

Delaying treatment won't help and you actually only have 14 days to seek treatment under PIP or you could run into problems. If she needs medical treatment, get medical treatment! She'll also have a bodily injury claim with the other insurance. 

And to answer your concern, which should be the least of your worries right not. Review FL Statute 626.9541 (o)(3)(a).

You're wrong for OP's state. Only a handful of states prohibit rate increases for not-at-fault accidents and Maryland isn't one of those. OP's rates could go up for filing this claim.

public no it's a pretty bad public school too also we have a policy that stops teachers from weighing attendance into grading such as not allowing students to take test even if they miss them

Apparently the Facebook post blew up and the local PD called my wife to apologize about how things went down last night and is now willing to help facilitate the capture of these birds with assistance from the game and fish department to identify and verify the ducks captured are not wild.  

Big turn around in a short period of time.  Hopefully we can get these little guys caught, put through a quarantine period and evaluated and sent off to good homes.  We aren’t looking to keep the ducks or profit from them in any way.  

Side note, since we already have the facilities we are now working on becoming a licensed bird rescue and rehab center to mitigate future issues.  I’m guessing local pd probably are going to get a refresher course on “wildlife” related issues and how to handle unusual situations.

Yes as mentioned in another comment we DO fail some cars. Worn suspension components etc. He wants us to pas trucks with tires that fail, offroad lights with no covers I could go on. It would be hard to get it in writing due to shop dynamic, would a video work?

Did you sign any early termination documents?

your landlord is nuts

This sounds like it has elements of probate and real estate.  

Do you really not have any idea who is behind this?  Who forged your signature on a lease to this tenant?  

What did you think was happening with mother's house when you didn't do anything with probate?  Who else is involved?

You should consult a qualified local real estate attorney.  They may need to control the runoff from this change in the land.

That's crazy, I have 1.99 acres and have plenty of room to shoot safely and while abiding by state law.

math aint mathin, had license for 6 years got DUI 4.5 years ago but claim this happened before you got your license

What started out as a grant became an interest bearing loan. I wouldn't have put in a claim in hindsight, knowing FEMA does everything in its power to work against the American people instead of with us.

They wanted $640 a month and wouldn’t budge. We just can’t swing that so we’re continuing with the whole process. I have a small business and bring in 5k on a good month but nothing consistent and it shows in my bank history. assuming I’ll be judgment proof and just mediate for a lower amount if they’ll go for it during the meeting

You gave him amble notice, he rented the property, I doubt he is not getting rent for the month of June, it’s as judge Marilyn used to say, it’s a case if ring a ding ding, let the cash register ring.

What you need is **written** evidence of being forced to pass the cars. Verbal is where the risk you’re worried about is a risk. 

Do you have anything in writing? 

If not, you need to get some. Like an email saying to pass a specific vehicle despite your concerns. 

—

Separately, you might consider law enforcement, because this is fraud. It sounds like the manager or the business in general is driving inspection business by being the place that always passes you. 

Do they ever **not** pass a vehicle?

I would also suggest getting a separate device that he knows nothing about and keeping the new account info there - also take your devices and have them scanned for keyloggers etc

Any insight into how they would garnish my wages or levy my bank account if I don’t have any thing to take?

If you have wages- they can be garnished. As to the possibility of them levying the account- depends on the state and how aggressively they are going after you. If you are making monthly payments as agreed they aren't going to levy your bank. 

Have you called them and asked about setting the debt for less than the full balance?

Should I file a police report?

You're welcome to, I would be shocked if they responded to a child being bitten while playing with a puppy.

but I don’t want anyone else to go through what we are going through

What happened to you is industry standard for pet stores. Display and sell dogs that are too young to have finished their puppy boosters. You can ask the store to pay for your medical costs, if they say no you'll sue in small claims and let the judge decide if the store is liable.

Getting the details in writing was a smart move. I'd also keep records of the restroom restriction, the deadnaming, the misgendering, and any complaints or conversations going forward.

This sounds like the kind of situation where speaking with an employment attorney sooner rather than later could be worthwhile.

The fact that coworkers have heard comments about wanting someone of a specific heritage is something I'd take seriously. Your wife is doing the right thing by documenting everything while it's happening.

Nobody here can tell you whether you have a legal case, but based on what you've described, I would absolutely consult an employment attorney before the situation escalates further.

Sorry wrote it in a rush. I moved out 3 months before the lease expired, while roommates A and B continued to live there. Roommate A harassed me by following me around the apartment while we were alone, saying slurs and insults to me- and punched a freezer door open when I tried to close it. I couldn't afford to break the lease so I continued to pay rent while I lived elsewhere for three months. The final rent payment I noticed a potential shortage from roommate A- who also attempted to not pay the wifi bills. I had been communicating this through roommate B, who I wasn't on the best terms with- but roommate B wasn't harassing me. I went to the leasing office, explained the situation, cleaned my room, paid my portions first, and then I sent roommate A back his payment minus the wifi bill total he owed me. When I went upstairs to clean, much of their things were packed up, they had also left google reviews bad mouthing the apartment complex saying that they were happy to be away. It looked like they had been in the process of moving without communication to the leasing office. I gave up the keys the day I cleaned up. The leasing office went in after I gave the office my keys and started throwing all of their things away without any warning. I thought roommate B was lying to me at first, but leasing office confirmed since a set of keys were given up they could do that. It sounds wrong to me, as the three of us were all on the lease- and I told them I am the only one moving out that day. I followed up with the leasing office on the fourth for a payment confirmation and they had told me everything was paid. I received a letter a week ago stating there is an outstanding balance. It didn't reflect my balance as the office accidentally applied my funds to the wrong account. Come to find out roommate a and roommate b did not pay their portions.

Start documenting everything. Keep records of your schedules, hour reductions, conversations with management, and anything that happened after you raised concerns about your medical condition.

The timing between requesting accommodation and losing hours is something I'd take seriously. It may be worth speaking with an employment attorney to understand whether disability discrimination or retaliation could be involved.

Take a look.  Florida has certain protections in the form of exemptions from judgment creditors.

NAL and nor is this legal advice. However, in Indiana, if a POA oversteps (not following the principal requests) is listed in that category.  The principal if they are of sound mind can revoke the poa and call to make the directive to MS

It depends, if a former drug addict working in a hospital, I would think it would be valid to discriminate because they could steal drugs. Or if someone was convicted of something money related Banks should be allowed to discriminate.

Do not listen to AI for anything in general, doubly so where it can tell you something with electricity that can get you killed.

That rule requires you to file the request in court, which you admit you’ve not done yet. You need to go back to the start and actually follow the discovery process if you intend to base your whole case on it.

Your best revenge is to live life well. My situation isn't completely dissimilar and I've considered legal action and instead dismissed it - at 35 I'd suggest investing the time, money and mental energy in therapy.

NAL

What can I legally expect of him at this point?

Nothing.   It's unfair but it's not illegal to treat one kid with a different mother in a less favorable manner.

Why did you respond?

Poor communication was one of the reasons I switched lawyers during my case.

When you're injured and already stressed, waiting days or weeks for updates makes everything worse. I don't expect constant calls, but I do expect transparency.

Experian is one of the websites that does free credit reports. Their website can be tricky since they want you to pay and they push you toward that option, but it is possible to get a free credit report. 

Do you know your SSN?

You’re right to stay away from the police. Do you know who your family’s attorney is for your asylum process? In your shoes that’s who I would be talking to in order to prepare in case this becomes a real issue, definitely not the cops.

I'd want to know exactly what evidence and arguments were presented during the arbitration, because from your description the outcome sounds frustrating.

Even if arbitration is final for the insurance dispute, that doesn't automatically answer every legal question that may exist.

I agree with what’s been said. The state licensing board decides who holds a license so your employer is unable to revoke it. I think it’s odd they would consider terminating you based on that information unless it was not initially disclosed.

I would tell the landlord "OK, but you need a copy of the signed lease agreement for the new tenant as proof.

My guess is they will refuse to provide that (because it shows the new tenant is paying for June).

I would also tell them your are not even considering paying for June without that proof.

If, by chance, the new tenants are living rent free there for June, the landlord will have no problem sharing a copy of the lease with you, as you would legally be obligated to pay as an early leasde break by you.

\---

Under Washington State Landlord-Tenant Law, landlords have a legal "duty to mitigate damages," meaning they cannot "double-dip" by collecting rent from both an old tenant and a new tenant for the exact same days. \[1, 2\]

If the new tenant occupies the unit for that month—even if the landlord grants them a free or delayed-rent period—the landlord cannot charge you rent for those same days. The landlord is expected to absorb the cost of their chosen move-in concession, rather than passing it on to you. \[1, 2\]

However, liability depends on whether your lease was broken early or if it expired:

* **If your lease was broken early:** Under RCW 59.18.310, you are legally responsible for rent until the unit is re-rented or your lease expires (whichever comes first). If the new tenant has a rent-free grace period, technically the unit is not "generating rent" during those days. You can be held responsible for the days the unit was vacant while the new tenant was moved in but not paying. \[1, 2\]
* **If your lease expired or was properly terminated:** If you moved out on or after your lease end date/proper move-out notice, you are not responsible for any rent, fees, or prorated charges for the following month. The new tenant's delayed payment is the landlord's responsibility.

If you'd like to clarify your situation, please tell me:

* Was your **lease up naturally**, or were you **breaking it early**?
* What **exact dates** was the new tenant in the unit before their paying period began?

Knowing these details will help determine if you are owed a prorated refund for the month or if you are still liable for the landlord's loss.

If your name was on the account, you have full legal claim to the money.

I’m so sorry I don’t understand this. I have the money for the last payment. I am just trying to see what will happen after I pay it off.

I said "services not as delivered" when I first filed because it made me choose one. I then clarified that the charge was also not authorized. I did this in email many times.

And I think Citi is wrong because I never authorized the charge. I had authorized one before... But then we had a lot of problems. The company agreed to give me credits. None of those were reflected on the final invoice. 

The merchant sent me numerous invoices and past due billing statements. They did not have to charge me again. But they did.

I am very sure I never signed any paper giving them authorization. And if I did...Citi never provided it. 

Citi looked at it as fraud and basically said because I at one point gave the merchant my card, it was authorized. 

I am quite sure Citi never heard back from the merchant.

If they were able to show me the second charge was authorized, it would make sense. But they never did.

That’s a great idea, thank you. I keep feeling that I’ve cleared a small area and then I notice that I’ve missed pieces when they catch the light. This could help

They did not. Belief isn't a virtue.

I would just keep it and invest slowly overtime

No. 

We’re done here. I should have quit. But this is where all the themes come together. 

They’re not obligated to prove this the way you want (your command of the rule is soft). They’re ignoring your bad faith demands doesn’t break the law. The responses we know they have are good enough. And when they prove it your smoke blows away and you’ve got nothing. Your nuisance strategy has not even so much as a credible idea behind it.

Also! They technically could have charged a lease break fee since your lease went to June 30th. It’s ridiculous how those things work! Sorry

Licensing board controls the license qualifications and status.  Agree, credentialing (allowed to practice under the license) is a local matter in the health system.

It doesn’t even seem like they live together either? She talks about making an excuse and leaving and then him “coming around” the next day? Like wtf?

How do I check that? If its not too much to ask, sorry its just that i've never had to check anything like this.

It looks like you can change your last name after marriage any number of times in NC -- it's only your full legal name that you can only change once (or twice, to revert back to your original legal name).

We are also in WA state and had renewed a lease back in April that was supposed to end and renew in July. I gave notice today and we are only responsible for Junes rent, and prorated until lease end date on July 5th. They could have charged us a lease break fee but did not. Technically with you guys, your lease would have needed to be paid through the end of June, HOWEVER they cannot double dip and charge new tenants and you as well. So it comes down to proving that new tenants already paid for June, other wise you are technically responsible for June. Would be tricky to prove unless you get attorneys involved.

Do you even live together ?

AI post, especially with its response on getting called out making zero sense and reading exactly like an AI.  To anyone else reading this, just down vote and move on.

Just mow over the weeds. A fence when or where required is usually paid for jointly by both parties desiring a fence or if you’re NOT required to have a fence. Pet people have to pay to portion part of their yard in for a pet.

Thank you! There was nothing in the disclosure

I wondering if the person meant they got their license, 6 years ago, I’m assuming therapists are like nurses , have to renew their license every 2 years, you have to disclose when you renew, if you have been convicted of a crime, DUI etc

They have not proven it it so far to me and legally they’re obligated even without a lawsuit. And if they don’t show me they’re breaking the law. I really don’t care what they do or do not possibly have they have the burden of proof not me. So they must prove it, and since legally I’m asking them to prove it legally they are obligated to produce the document to prove it. Which so far they have not.

I don’t work or yes they would

Iowa has strict liability for dog bites.  There's no "one bite" rule here.  The dog bites someone - your fault, dog's fault, the person's fault (trespassing or assaulting it or you don't count), you are strictly liable for the dog bite even if it's the first time.  Encouraging adults and especially children to come to the fence and interact with the dog would absolutely increase chances of something going wrong.  Something to consider.  As for your insurance policy, you would need to read it and see what it says you can and cannot do.  There might be a broad clause that prohibits something like this.

Recovered addicts are a protected class of people as far as employment.  Cannot terminate based on learning about a workers past, or not hire due to past addictions (that are over).

It may be voluntarily surrender your credentialing or privileges-- those are just at your hospital. I still wouldn't do it.  Your license is through the state and it's a process to suspend it.

Even if the LL didn't, the language is arbitrary because it's not a tenants responsibility to source a new tenant.

They are wrong. I'm a PM in Washington. The new occupants *are* paying for the time, but they're paying with a rent concession. Unless they moved in without a lease, in which case your previous landlord is among the most shit I've ever encountered.

The landlord's explanation is odd. If the new tenant is physically occupying the property in June, it's hard to see how the property is simultaneously being held exclusively for you through June 30

They *do* own it. You know it. I know it. 

And they establish that adequately with the collective bill of sale we know they have because no one buys a portfolio without one and the spreadsheet we know they have because they know your name and they you owe money on a Cabela’s card. 

So you *can’t* win. Logic establishes they have what they need. 

And *again* when the go to court and say “here’s the bill of sale and the court can review our spreadsheet in chambers,” you’re sunk. And they’re now unwilling to settle.

IANAL. In most cases if there wasn't a new tenant for June, then yes you would owe. Since there was a tenant for June, I would say that you wouldn't owe, with it being the landlord's fault for not staying the lease for June for the new tenants.

Then I read what you put for early terminaton:

Early Termination
* Clause: If tenant terminates early, they are responsible for rent until a new tenant is found, plus a $3000 releasing fee.

According to this, you would still owe $3000. I just don't know if this is allowed by State law, especially if a new tenant was found

Depending on the amount they're saying you owe, you might need to wait and see if this goes to small claims court.

Every state is different and hospital is different,   Our hospital can not revoke you license, they have no justification over it, they might subject you to random drug and alcohol testing, usually you get a pass with you first one, unless the driving resulted in a death or bodily injury.  I would get my ducks in a row,   I worked with a nurse that got a DUI and she was let go from the hospital, but she retained her license

You can get a copy of your birth certificate with just your unexpired state-issued ID, and then, once you do that, a replacement SSN card is easy, and after that, most any other document you need is even easier.

Sure, defend the EEOC complaint and bring a defamation action would steps to take.  Be prepared to spend more on a lawyer than you may get out of it.

It is not your fault that the landlord gave a free month to the new tenants. They can't bankroll tenancy perks off your back.

What's the disputed charge, what's Citi's position, and why do you think it's wrong?

“4.5 years ago, before I got licensed” is different from “4.5 years ago before I got licensed” but it still doesn’t read to mean 10.5 years ago to me unless it’s an English as a second language issue.

As long as you disclosed the dui, if asked, while being licensed it’s fine. I commented above. But I work for a behavioral health practice. We had an md get a DUI recently and the board has not given 2 shits about it for a first offender.

Check your credit report. It’s free and it’ll show you the student loan. From there you can try to work with the financial institution to prove you never took out that loan.

I really don’t understand how as they as a third party have not proven that they themselves own the debt

Sue the storage place

Exactly. We have an MD get a dui a few months ago. Our internal rules are damn near more strict about it than the state (NC). A one off they don’t really care about.

OP u/Inkwell_5RT I want to make sure you see this comment I'm replying to. Research was done here, and you need a real lawyer ASAP. Especially if you're turning off your own electricity and causing issues for others; that may be justified, but it could cause you more trouble.

That is troubling how insensitive the troopers/police were.  Is it known if the dump truck driver was driving an excessive speed or perhaps had a turn signal on?  These stories are always tragic to hear.

Nope. Any advice about talking to the police, without a lawyer telling you to, is horrible advice.

Are you implying that judges treat pro se parties different than parties with representation? Or follow different statutes and laws because of their status of having an attorney? 

Go ahead and say that to a judicial officer's face and I want to hear what happens.

Get a title loan on the car, from your bank, so they have the title to it. Bank might get 4or5% interest, don’t spend the money, use it to pay off the car loan.

It’s coming up a lot because it’s not clear. You had the DUI 4.5 years before you were licensed, meaning 10.5 years ago and you have an errant comma. But then you have the same vague answer and errant comma in the follow up. So I think you’re a bot.

I’ve gotten the PIP going, and the other drivers insurance seems to be responsive. I never signed anything saying I felt okay, or any documentation with the others insurance so hopefully I’m okay.

For context of "fast," since it is subjective, one incident where my dad was yelled at by the neighbor was when he was on his way home from the store. My brother was out for a walk on the dirt road, coming back from checking the mail, and my dad was going slow enough to carry a conversation with him through the open window. The neighbor came by on his golf cart screaming at Dad to "slow the fuck down." He couldn't see my brother from the angle he was coming from. Later, he went over to my parents' to complain that my dad keeps going much too fast and needs to stop. He had a wrench in his hand during the confrontation and was speaking very animatedly and angrily, and it frightened my mom.

He has a history of intimidating my parents, or at least seeming to attempt to, and he's making them feel unsafe by constantly surveilling them and yelling at them from his property. Is that really not harassment? I'm not a lawyer (hence the post) but surely there's something my siblings and I can do to protect my folks. They're in their sixties and live quiet lives and I hate that this is just something they have to accept.

Terrible and naive advice to go to the police "first". The police are there to enforce laws. They would love for you to come in and admit to something that might be a crime. You did the work for them.

The first rule of not getting deported or put in jail club, is you don't talk to the people who might deport you or put you in jail.

I'm so sorry for your daughter. In CA, where I live, it any such interrogation were to take place, the student would always be required to have a parent or advocate present.     
Here is some info for you:
-Youth is one of the strongest risk factors for false confession. In a survey of confession experts, 94% agreed that being young increases the risk of a false confession.      
-In one study of incarcerated boys aged 14-17, more than one-third reported having made a false admission to authorities at some point.      -Research on proven false confessions found that more than half of the juvenile false confessors were younger than 15, which would include many 13- and 14-year-olds.  (I assume your daughter being in 8th grade she is 13 or 14)  
-For a 13-year-old specifically, researchers generally consider that age group among the most vulnerable because:

* They are more likely to focus on immediate relief (“Can I go home now?”).
* They are more likely to defer to authority figures.
* Stress interferes with decision-making more strongly in adolescents than adults.
* They may not fully understand the long-term consequences of agreeing with an accusation. 

In my opinion, you should take your daughter to a therapist to get his or her opinion of your daughter and her character, and their opinion on whether or not she is capable of doing this. Also, I'd contact a lawyer. Your daughter had no advocate, was clearly in distress, was lied to, and gave a false confession to make it stop. To me, that sounds like a lawsuit. Maybe harassment of a minor? Where you live, are there laws on bullying? B cause that's what the principal did to your daughter. He bullied her into a false confession. Get loud. See it your local news will do a story on it. Embarrass the principal. Whatever you can do to wipe it from your daughters record and punish the misbehaving adults, do it.

You will be legally liable when your intact male dog breaks out of your yard to impregnate an intact female dog. At a minimum, you'll be responsible for the spay/abort. 

The breeder probably doesn't have a way to verify whether you did or did not neuter the dog, but it's a pretty common clause in breeder contracts to have the puppy spayed. Some breeds it's better to wait until 1-1.5 years after growth plates have set.

Neutering is better for their long term behavioral and physical health. Not neutering increases your risks of being liable for aggression.

Commercial vacuum, and a rake?

**Requesting Outside Contact** 

Requesting or offering private messages or chats is against the rules of this subreddit.  Please review the following rules before commenting further

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

unless the "ago" was also a mistake it still doesn't make sense. Neither does the fact that OP responded to another comment about the mixed up timeline and their response didn't do anything to clarify. 

A better explanation is that they're leaving something out or they're faking the entire story.

That’s what I thought. Her lawyer said “he has autism” and the judge said “oh so he’s disabled” and shut down my motion on the spot. 

Unfortunately, this judge has a history of being unfair to fathers. There is a petition for their removal with almost 2,000 signatures on it.

THIS!!!!

I was married to a very manipulative and emotionally abusive woman. She gaslighted me about so many things I seriously thought I was experiencing early onset dementia. Turns out she was lying to me about almost everything.

I appreciate the info. The counterpoint they have made is that although the new tenant occupies the residence, they are not paying rent until the beginning of July and that this still obligates me to pay June.

In this, you're looking for B.ii

You're only responsible for the difference between what you would have paid for rent minus whatever the new tenant paid. So if the new tenant is paying exactly what you would have paid (or more) then you don't owe anything. In other words, you're only responsible for losses, and if there are no losses then you owe nothing.

If the new tenant hasn't paid rent (because the lease hasn't started yet) then that complicates things. However, under Washington state law the landlord has responsibility to mitigate losses by attempting to re-rent the property. If he made no effort to rent the property for June and simply offered it for free, expecting you to pay for June, then he ignored his legal duty to mitigate damages.

Seems pretty clear to me

Although wouldn’t that be discrimination based on conviction record?

Animal control said they would contact LEO tomorrow morning so maybe that will yield something. There were only 4 people in the facility at the time so it’s not endless possibilities. We went to urgent care and they also filled out a dog bite report which they turn in to the county as it’s mandatory.

NAL.  I can't really answer your contract question.  But there a several reasons to get a male dog neutered if you don't plan on breeding.  Of course the most obvious is that is the responsible thing to do to eliminate accidental breeding.  But also it can help reduce some unwanted behaviors like marking with urine and aggressively mounting.  Health wise it of course reduces the risk of testicular cancer which isn't uncommon.  

Anyway, just something to think about.

What’s the case you’re making?  You seem to be confusing “you can’t prove to my arbitrary satisfaction you own this debt,” with “there is some actual chain of custody issue.”

You’re entitled to challenge the fact that they own the debt. You’re not entitled to say “the way you’ve done so isn’t good enough.”  Or to invent documents you know don’t exist as a gotcha. 

You’ve asked them for things. I’d guess they’ve decided you’re nutty and are blowing you off. At some point they’ll respond more formally along the lines of “we object to defendants request but offer this.”

Then what?  Thats the problem. Your “defense” isn’t a defense. It’s smoke.

Yes, get the puppy fixed.

Texas kill shelters are full because of the lack of neutering your animals. Every day dogs are euthanized in your shelters because people "felt bad" or whatever bs accuse. When your dog knocks up another dog, that will be their future. I know because I saved a dog out of one of those kill shelters and I follow the rescues. We don't have that problem in my state, but you do.

No, Washington state laws RCW 59.18 do not allow landlords to "double-dip" by collecting rent from two different tenants for the same unit and time period. \[1, 2\]

Key Legal Rules

* **Duty to Mitigate:** Under the Residential Landlord and Tenant Act (RCW 59.18.310), a landlord is legally obligated to make a reasonable effort to re-rent the unit if a tenant moves out early. \[1\]
* **No Double Rent:** If the landlord successfully finds a new tenant to move in during a period you have already paid for, they must prorate and refund you for the overlapping days the new tenant is paying. Landlords cannot collect double rent. \[1\]
* **Exceptions:** If the landlord incurred legitimate re-renting expenses—such as advertising costs or tenant screening fees—they may legally deduct these costs from your refund, provided those charges are explicitly outlined in your lease agreement. \[1, 2\]

In many jurisdictions, TROs are effective when issued by the judge, not when served on the restrained party. If you weren't present, this was either issued as a temporary order or a permanent order by default. There are **a lot** of side-effects of TROs that might affect you (a friend I knew couldn't own a gun in her 30s because of a protection order they got **in high school**...). Specifics vary, and it may show up on background checks for things like employment.

You should consult with an attorney in your jurisdiction about how to file to have the order lifted, and be prepared to possibly travel back to the jurisdiction that issued it to argue why it should not be enforced.

Just having an autism diagnosis does not mean he is disabled.  There is a whole involved process to getting on disability as an adult and it does not sound like he has gone through that (or needs to, or would likely be approved for it.).

can the landlord force entry to re-enable the power? on the theory that it's an emergency?

That’s not at all applicable to this situation as the landlord asked them to vacate early since they had a new tenant moving in.

The comment I replied to didn't mention any media, so I assumed people would understand I wasn't talking about any media

Better to address it than stick your head in the sand.  Eventually, the court will give her permission to serve you via some other means, such as email or publication.  Then it will turn into a permanent order if you don’t appear.

Dealing with it out of the gate will make you look better to the judge and decrease the chances a permanent order will issue.

I’d recommend calling a family lawyer in the jurisdiction to help you out.

Call your bank and work with them. The police may not care that much but a bank might actually get the secret service involved. You won't get your money back but that dude could find himself in a world of trouble.

I was informed with talking to a law office this judge rarely  does that. He just let's them go with no penalty  and child isnt retured. Now im worried can I request another judge

I don't practice in Massachusetts, but I have never heard of a court leaving a voice mail for a potential party to a lawsuit.

You’re really glossing over why your bf only has supervised visitation. Which I get, you don’t think it’s relevant, but it absolutely is and that’s why you’re getting downvotes. Because the way you’re wording it makes it sound like he just said yes to whatever she wanted, but I guarantee she did not want exactly 1 day of supervised visitation per month that required her to give up her whole day, and I guarantee she did not want to have to ask her friend to give up her whole day once a month either. If I’m wrong and this is just all what her preferences would be regardless of his behavior and he was just being deferential, then yeah go ahead and go in and ask for an unsupervised weekend visit. But if I’m not wrong, and there’s a good reason why he only sees his kid 1 day a month and it’s supervised, then going in and saying “well if the supervised visitation is inconvenient for her, we’ll just switch to sharing custody with no supervision” is not a very good plan. And if that is the case, trying to foist most of the costs on her for the visitation center is also not a very good plan, especially if he hasn’t been helping his ex with gas money for visitation so far (e.g., if his bad behavior is the reason she is so inconvenienced, and she is seeking to be less inconvenienced by it, asking the judge to just inconvenience her in a different way is not the way to go and doesn’t look like he’s taking accountability for his past actions - which would involve trying to make this as easy on his ex as possible, since his behavior is the reason she’s inconvenienced in the first place).

What's the rent per month? Did you pay the $3000 early termination?

I copied this from the nda

“Obligations of Non-Disclosure
4. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Evaluator must not disclose the Confidential
Information.
5. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Confidential Information will remain the
exclusive property of the Inventor and will only be used by the Evaluator for the Permitted
Purpose. The Evaluator will not use the Confidential Information for any purpose that might be
directly or indirectly detrimental to the Inventor or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries.
6. The obligations to ensure and prevent the disclosure of the Confidential Information imposed on
the Evaluator in this Agreement and any obligations to provide notice under this Agreement will
survive the expiration or termination, as the case may be, of this Agreement and those obligations
will last indefinitely.
7. The Evaluator may disclose any of the Confidential Information:
a. to such of its employees, agents, representatives and advisors that have a need to know for
the Permitted Purpose provided that:
i. the Evaluator has informed such personnel of the confidential nature of the
Confidential Information;
ii. such personnel agree to be legally bound to the same burdens of non-disclosure and
non-use as the Evaluator;
iii. the Evaluator agrees to take all necessary steps to ensure that the terms of this
Agreement are not violated by such personnel; and
Non-Disclosure Agreement Page 4 of 8
iv. the Evaluator agrees to be responsible for and indemnify the Inventor for any
breach of this Agreement by its personnel.
b. to a third party where the Inventor has consented in writing to such disclosure; and
c. to the extent required by law or by the request or requirement of any judicial, legislative,
administrative or other governmental body.
8. The Evaluator agrees to retain all Confidential Information at its usual place of business and to
store all Confidential Information separate from other information and documents held in the
same location. Further, the Confidential Information is not to be used, reproduced, transformed,
or stored on a computer or device that is accessible to persons to whom disclosure may not be
made, as set out in this Agreement”

Carbon monoxide poisoning in the apartment?

Seriously get a lawyer and have them contact them moving forward. And document everything.

Perhaps he meant four and a half years before he received the license? Comma might’ve been a mistake.

You are most welcomed. Now pls lawyer up.

It sounds like you should file a motion with the court to compel discovery since the plaintiff ignored your request. If they don't produce the documentation you can move to dismiss.

If they ignore that motion to compel and show up to court with them you should object and state that they failed to produce those in response to your discovery request. The judge will likely be unsympathetic to their stonewalling tactic, though whether that's enough to lead to you winning the case is impossible to speculate on.

Are you drunk rn because you can’t be licensed for six years but get licensed 3 years ago. Thats what everybody wants to know

Arguably, you shouldn't mix ALL of your money even after you get married. A better strategy is your money, joint bill accounts (only if you want to), partner's money. You'll be happier for it.

So if they’re suing me and I ask them for evidence to build my case and they refuse to give it that’s just fine? So then I have no way to build a case or see what my options are? That’s seems pretty illegal

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. **Do not make a second post.** Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

thanks for your comment, makes me feel more confident and less stressed

I'm not sure such an agreement would be legally enforceable, as it seems strongly against public policy and the state's interest in ensuring child support is managed under the applicable statutes.

That said, if he pays the lump sum and monthly support on time, there's little to no downside here, other than you can't tell anyone the terms of the settlement or who the father actually is.

Whether it's legally enforceable would only come up in the event of a breach.

And they can. And they will as I already covered. There’s no real concern they can’t. 

But you don’t get to dictate terms and form.

If your description is accurate, your kid needs to start advocating for himself. I imagine the judge will want your kid to testify, and it should become pretty clear quickly that they should be treated as a non disabled 18 year old adult. Get a lawyer, and make sure they have previous experience with this particular issue.

If you’re paying for it then it’s yours for the time paid and you should have full access to the property IMO.  If they want to fight just tell the LL you’ll happily take possession for the month to alleviate any more back and forth.

The house is in my uncle's name and he called the city to ask about it but just got an answering machine. Hopefully we can get into contact with them

I've stopped corespondence with the landlord but from our last communication. This is the new tenant currently at the home. Although they occupy the home, they state that their lease starts on July 1st and them I am still obligated to pay for the month of June.

Police generally don’t get involved in child custody cases absent extreme circumstances.

Your recourse is to go back to family court and have the other parent held in contempt if they’re violating the agreement.

Feel free to dm me. Can send you both of our Petitions. And my Google Drive link with all evidence!

This is why it’s an uphill battle - you have evidence. A ton of it. None of it is proof.

They will have evidence as well - the training for their technicians, maybe performance evaluations who knows … but that is also evidence, not proof.

No one can predict which side will provide the better evidentiary case to earn a favorable ruling. It might rely on the mood of the judge, who knows. 

There’s no way to prove they didn’t tighten it or not tighten it. There’s no way to prove you didn’t untighten it maybe in a misguided effort to get the whole job paid for, for free.
I’m not saying you did that, I’m just saying that’s a theory they may bring up. 

File the claim, bring your evidence, and cross your fingers.

Telephonic or virtual trials are generally permitted at the discretion of the judge in the matter. Because you failed to fulfill the terms of your sentence, it's like that the judge wants you to appear in person so that you can be jailed for that failure. If you don't show up, you will likely have an arrest warrant issued for you for Failure to Appear -- it will be a low-level warrant, more than likely, and they probably won't pay to extradite you if you're detained on it in the near future.

Since you're homeless and probably don't have any assets to speak of, you could find a legal aid provider somewhere in Charlottte who might be able to assist you with negotiating with the court based on your current circumstances.  There's no guarantee there, but since you know you won't be able to appear, getting legal assistance is pretty much your best option.

Paralegal who also handles bills here. Not an attorney. Not this law area. 

Every firm is a little different and it depends on what all was done in details that might not be on the invoice. For my part, were I reviewing this invoice prior to sending, I wouldn't have kept most of these activities as billable because it is closer to firm administration items. I may have still shown it as non-billable so the client can still see the effort and time that we are putting in in dealing with their case and its management. But yeah, I wouldn't have billed for all of it.

You can talk to them about it. Make and appointment. Be polite and calm. Explain your reasoning. If you are otherwise satisfied with the attorney, understand this may be an issue the effects your relationship. If they are willing to negotiate it, everyone wins. If not, you'll have to decide if you want to push it which may result in the need to find another attorney.

The fact that they didn't yet send you that evidence of ownership is unlikely to mean they don't have it. You can hold out hope that they don't actually have it, but that is very unlikely. Documenting the purchase of the debt is a core business process for them, and they could even go back to Cabelas and get the documentation of that transactionfrom them. So long as they have that documentation, I don't see how you win.

Early Termination
* Clause: If tenant terminates early, they are responsible for rent until a new tenant is found, plus a $3000 releasing fee.

This Lease will be governed by the laws of the State of Washington, and any additional laws of the city or county in 
which the Property is located. This Lease will be binding on and inure to the benefit of all permitted heirs, legal 
representatives, and assigns of the parties. This Lease, along with the attached Addenda and legal disclosures, contains 
the entire agreement between Landlord and Tenant and may not be changed except in writing signed by all parties. If 
any provision of this Lease is found to be invalid or unenforceable, all other provisions contained in this Lease will remain 
binding and enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law.

These are the only two clauses I could find the lease related to this situation.

My understanding is it's generally illegal to charge you rent on the property if another tenant is paying rent there, but I'm not a lawyer and have never lived in Washington.

Yea...that is what they all say...

Your state license to practice is safe.  The hospital on the other hand could get rid of you especially if u never disclosed it to them

Correction the dog did this, can’t say never after it happened. Get definitive medical treatment and an Attorney. medical

Legally they have to prove that they are the owners of the debt. They have not done that I am entitled to that under Ohio law

Thank you for that ❤️

This doesn’t work the way you want it to. You’re not going to demand things you’re not entitled to and then say “so the money I actually owe goes away.”  

Meanwhile you’re burning the chance to resolve this in some reasonable way.

I think you might be right..

I also live on Long Island…Send me his info and for 17.38% of the $3.2k I’ll make sure you are paid before the end of July.

Unfortunately, in person, or have an attorney (HI allows it, but no award of fees).

The third party did not show evidence of ownership of the debt. No bill of sale or chain of custody. My defense is they need to prove they bought it and that it’s mine. So far they have not done that.

I wouldn't worry about it. 

An employee probably messed up by locking the doors without making sure they cars were empty. What crime do you think you committed? Falling asleep on public transit isn't a crime. Escaping a train car you were trapped in isn't a crime.

You are an amazing father! With that said, Lawyer up and don’t back down.

What did your lease say about early surrender, rent obligations, giving notice? Was there a written agreement releasing you early? 

If the new tenant took possession in June, the landlord generally can't charge both for rent. Can you ask for documentation showing why June is still owed when another tenant took possession? Is there a chance the new occupant is staying there informally, or are you sure this is a replacement tenant who is paying rent for June?

Give that information to the police. 

his first name, and city he lives in 

I wouldn't even be so sure that's accurate

That's a faulty assessment by the technician.  If gaskets are going out, even a little, they are already failing.  A more direct but less saleable answer was to note the head gasket had started to fail and could go out tomorrow or work fine enough for the life of the vehicle but should be replaced.  And that's the point, they didn't tell you that because they knew it would affect the value of the car or that they'd have to fix it themselves.  So they pawned it off on you hoping it wouldn't blow - but it did.  How much are the repairs? And what was the cost of the vehicle?

Thank you for the questions. I have a consultation scheduled with an attorney now, so this will help me know a bit more with what to expect.

I'm 28 with a husband and 5 year old child. My husband and I have stable employment and a small business which provides us with more than enough money. My husband is so supportive. We have a spare bedroom in our house. Although she has not been to my house, we have facetimed so she can see where I live. I plan to visit her as soon as possible. 

I believe the motive for the other person wanting to keep her would be for financial gain, but I feel as though the money left by our dad should go into a savings account to ensure her future financial security. There are also younger children in the home and my sister has been responsible for feeding, bathing, changes diapers (I do not agree with this). They are also a low-income family without adequate space for a teenage girl. There are 2 boys in the home and she is expected to share a room with them. 

I have contacted the local Clerk of Court to try to get more information on the matter and our brother (who is local to her) will go pick up paperwork for me later this week.

Are you prepared to lie in court? Are you prepared to tell a judge you did not make those purchases on credit at Cabelas? 

The other party is going to present evidence that you do owe that money, and that they then purchased that debt from Cabelas. It does not sound like you have any actual evidence to contradict those claims, absent maybe your own testimony, which begs the question of whether you are going to claim the debt is not actually yours (which it sounds like would probably be an act of purjury). If you're not going to affirmatively claim that the debt is not yours and you didn't open that credit with Cabelas, I don't know how you would possibly succeed here.

What in you're opinion is considered exceedingly rare?  To the man being accused it doesn't matter how rare it is.  Even if found not guilty or charges are dropped, it's still a stain on him for the remainder of his life.  Which could be a short one if he doesn't take himsself out due to being ostracized by his family friends and community at large, some one else who may not have more than two braincells to rub together and decide that the system is broken and the little girl needs justice and they are going to send this person to the afterlife..

If you still believe this is "exceedingly rare", please do some research and find studies on this that show actual numbers instead of the ones that I've found that just shows numbers with the caveat of "it's believed to be".

I've held my license for six years...  
  
Before I got sober I had a DUI. This was four and a half years ago, before I was licensed...

This. Log with photos, time spent removing glass and photos of anything you remove.

At least attempt to go after them to cover your costs.

Could I do that online, or over the phone, or does it have to be in-person?

Both. I want to use that money to support my kids directly. Pay tuition and college for D, fund accounts for J for long term success (not saying it's needed but happy to do so since I'm paying D's tuition and don't want to make it seem like it's strictly about me keeping the money).

Don’t voluntarily do anything

What does that mean?

Is this college? High school? Public or private?

What is his "behavior comparable to bullying"?   Have you spoken to your parents?

Do they teach punctuation at this school?

You could go to small claims, but it would be requiring filing in HI court and not Colorado's.

Your cousin is doing some really evil, dirty work. Making your dad think you don't want anything to do with him so he turns his estate over to your cousin. That's despicable. Go see your dad and explain what your cousin has been doing.

You really ought to consult a lawyer here. Your command of the rules is soft.

So now I will file a motion to compel after my good faith effort under Ohio Civ R37

Jefferson county, I’ve already contacted U.S. department of fish and wildlife since waterfowl are federally managed for clarification on definitions.  State fish and game says not our jurisdiction so now it’s a fight with the city.  We’ve included a licensed wildlife sanctuary into the operation now and they are going through their channels to recapture these ducks.  One of the other members of the incident posted to Facebook with the details and apparently the aggressive entitled behavior is pretty common in the police department there.

Thank you for the detailed response. I appreciate it very much.

There may not be any other way. Trees with root systems so large that they break up concrete sidewalks often times can't survive having huge chunks of that system cut out to repair sidewalks. It could be a situation where if they only cut the root system and left the tree that your grandfather's property could have a big dead tree in that might fall and destroy stuff.

No I haven’t filed it with the court because in order to do so in Ohio you have to show good faith that you have tried to contact the other party. Which is what I am doing now. Which is what I’ve been explaining. Under Ohio law if I ask for their evidence the have to show it to me if they don’t they are violating Ohio Civ. R34

What does the lease say?

Yes, that part doesn’t make sense. Agreed.

Have you called the city?

Honestly given your history with your ex and the OOp, id let it go and file with your insurance and be done and move on with my life. No good can come from suing your ex.

The main problem is that he claims to have been licensed for six years

No, he’s saying the DUI happened 4 years ago. He got sober a year and a half after that.

You should involve police or animal control as may be appropriate in your location. They are reasonably likely to chase, at least a little, the owner. Especially in the context of vaccination information. 

The facility should refuse video and customer info to you but is more likely to cooperate with LEO.

Are you objecting because you don't want to pay your ex or because you don't want the disability designation to hurt your son.  It sounds like the designation was in response to not wanting to pay her.  So tell her you will back off not paying her if she gives you full custody for the next six months and you see if he can hold down a job independently for that time.  And you deal with him getting his license and being comfortable with driving and working and get him able to live independently.  Because if she gets him declared disabled when he is not and gets herself appointed his guardian just to suck money out of you that is a lot worse than six months of child support.

No point of that. It’ll be all done by prob Friday

It's actually attached to the LL unit. 

I used Ai to come up with a comprehensive plan, there are so many possible outcomes.. I'm noticing some signs of modifications, which may make it a crime or at least rock solid in civil court.

Gotta stay positive.. I'm moving at end of the month and the LL has been nothing but a pain. Either way she's done leaching off of me and I'm shutting off the gas next week after inspector comes.

Abuse can make you start acting differently because you can no longer trust your own memory of events. That’s part of why abusers discourage outside relationships. If you have no one to tell you something’s off except them, that’s more power in their hands.

They are forcing me to be something im not

That is, unfortunately, called "parenting." Nearly every parent projects their wants and goals onto their children and puts work into shaping their kids into who they want those kids to grow up to be. There isn't much legal difference between pushing someone to pursue a trade or a degree or pushing someone to conform to a gender or social norm in this context, even though you or I might see that those things are very different in practice.

what to do to make emancipation easier for me

First and foremost, become financially independent. That means having the income or assets to both pay for your own rent/mortgage and groceries and fund at least your high school education. You cannot be emancipated if you are financially dependent on others, or if emancipation would leave you without adequate financial support.

Second, move out. For a court-ordered emancipation, you must be living independently. Furthermore, you need your parents' approval, both practically (they can have you brought back as a runaway if you move out and are not emanicpated) and legally (their objections will be taken into account if you apply to be emancipated).

Alternatively, you could enlist. Personally speaking I would not recommend that you enlist as a trans minor, almost no matter how difficult your parents are about your identity. The US military in particular has an appalling track record with queer identities, and the current admin has moved to block trans people from enlisting; that's a policy warning I think you should take extremely seriously. However, the option exists.

we have have done sexual things before

Ordinarily, I'd ignore this, but I think in your situation it's worth discussing.

California's age of sexual consent is 18. There is a close in age exception, but it only reduces the offence from a felony to a misdemeanor. _Usually_, California prosecutors are not interested in pursuing charges against a teenager for consensual sexual contact with a peer who is close to their own age, but if your parents - or your partners' parents - push hard enough, then it is possible that any sexual contact with you or your partners could lead to serious criminal charges.

That is not fair. Speaking from outside of California, I think it is not just. It is nonetheless the law in California. If you are in regular conflict with your parents about your sexuality and gender identity, I think it would be prudent not to also risk legal conflict with the state of California, so that your parents can't wield the threat of charges against you or your partners. I think your actual legal risk is low, but it's not zero.

-----

This is a rather grim and depressing post, and I'm sorry for that. My perspective is that you don't have much reason you should be emancipated, and that your parents' wishes for you, while troubling, do not appear to rise to the level of child abuse or neglect.

To try to end on a more upbeat note, I'll say this: you're not alone. Please reach out to organizations like Lambda Legal, and try to find a local trans advocacy and support network that can help you make it through the balance of your childhood. Nothing at all stops you from walking out the door the day you turn 18, and getting a support network in place can prepare you to do exactly that.

If you don't like your lawyer, or you feel they are treating you badly, fire them and find another.

Actually that's not true especially in my state which is CA. Eventhough it's highly unusual a judge in a child custody dispute can subpoena those records without the person's consent. OP's ex would've had to provide the judge through his attorney with some serious accusations, evidence or lies to get the judge to take such action.

Well I’m assuming it is a legitimate claim as she was arrested and charged for it

The two exceptions to the warrant requirement might be "plain sight" or "inevitable discovery".    If investigators have a warrant to review an entire phone's internal memory, or both messaging and photo apps, they probably aren't required to ignore evidence of other crimes.

that he had not solicited or asked for, and he had not shared them

Knowing possession of CSAM is a crime by itself.

prosecuting him with those charges on top of the other ones.

Prosecutors often charge all the crimes they have evidence of that can lead to a conviction, in order to encourage a plea agreement.

since they're both underage, is he still likely to be convicted and made to register as an offender

Ohio doesn't have a commonsense teen sexting law that reduces the penalties for close-in-age, otherwise-consensual possession of CSAM by minors.   Many counties plea bargain or dismiss the charges, but they don't have to.

Your family member is going to have some very candid and difficult discussions with his attorney.

Illinois legal aid Society has a detailed guide that answers your questions

Which is kinda crazy cuz they have literally responded to people already with personal info. So if it is a bot that advanced ad lmao but I doubt it is a bot.

The money is most likely gone. Never go off platform for any reason. The ID, bank account info, and SS card belong to someone else. Someone had their information stolen and that is why the scammer felt comfortable sending the information. 

I’m sorry, but legally there is not much you can do. The scammer is likely in another country.

If you are licensed with the State, do NOT give it up!!  That’s a credential you worked hard for and it’s valuable.

They “might” require you to “voluntarily” do this ? No. Just no. Something fishy is going on with the merger - is private equity involved? They are trying to trim headcount, or pay you less to do the same work, or something else that’s wrong. Document everything and try to find a lawyer to be on standby if you need one.

Nah, one missed call isn't enough to panic. The bigger question is whether they get back to you before the hearing and explain the plan.

There are HIPPA violations all over this. Not only that, but I can't imagine my state allowing any of that into evidence. A good judge will throw it out because you can't determine parenting based on your teen self.

No. An employer can’t take your license. They can fire you for whatever, though. F them.

We did do a walk through but they were in the middle of painting/replacing floors so the house largely smelled like paint. Is it okay to contact animal control to remove the cats ourselves?

Why won't you answer the simple question?  Did you file your discovery motion with the court? 

Here's the important part of what you're asking about: 

You're following the *pre-litigation* playbook for nuisance defense to debt.  But this doesn't work in litigation.  The screenshots, the bill of sale, and the spreadsheet listing your account (that they won't show you but they'll show the judge) are enough to get them to the preponderance of evidence they need to win.  

Past that set of evidence we already know they have, you have to establish something real to win. Your nuisance strategy is now short.  

If you have a substantive argument that takes the form "I don't actually owe money on this account because..." make it.  If you don't you may come to regret pushing the nuisance strategy beyond where it has any positive effect.

The orange X marking is usually bad news - I've seen this happen in my area too and they generally don't mark trees unless they plan to remove them. You should check your property deed or contact city planning department to see exact easement boundaries, sometimes trees can be saved if they're just barely outside the easement zone or if you can prove they're not actually causing damage

Sadly your money is gone.  It is some place 1,000s of miles away from you.  You will likely be contacted by recovery scammers.  They often frequent subs like this looking for people to scam.  Or the original scammers will contact you claiming they can help you. They will offer to get your money back for a fee but you will end up losing even more money.

I didn’t figure it was a police scandal but there’s been some stuff about the department in my area coming out lately bc the levy to increase tax for a pay raise was voted no on so there’s been some incidents lately. I don’t know a lot of details bc it’s hush hush and they’re trying to delete a lot of the stuff about it. Thanks for your response!

I hope that the constant stress and anxiety will end soon.

We're beyond the scope of this sub, but one important thing to keep in mind with the above is that it's a marathon and not a sprint.  Having been in a similar place to where you are now, I wish you the best of luck.

You’re so right - I misspoke about the mandate vs the option to. Cheers and thanks for the correction!

That's the idea. He is primarily staying with me this summer and will begin working. H is trying to stop that from happening.

and no i figure someone is not watching every second, but they do pay someone to sit and watch them

I sent a discovery request, next I’m sending a good faith to resolve letter and then I will file a motion to compel

If you Already have your license... As long as you Haven't violated the terms of the license you should have Zero issues! 
Maybe the place where you Work is having a "Personal" conflict with THEIR policies... But that should NOT affect your license.

Take it from me, court is not somewhere you want to be unless you have a legitimate claim. Also even though small claims is meant to be so anyone can represent themselves it was extremely difficult to navigate the process as someone with zero legal training.

I would not use any former employer documents, templates, pricing, client lists, methods, or confidential information.

This is good.

Otherwise, I'd run this past a PA employment attorney. 2 years not being able to work regionally with a competing company may not be enforceable in PA. Generally non-competes have to be reasonable in time, scope and geographic area and not otherwise against public policy. PA does not want to pay for you to be on welfare. The other option is they pay you to not compete (aka: "gardening provision"). I don't know if PA judges/courts blue pencil (i.e., change the terms of) a non-compete.

PA might be more likely to enforce the non-solicit.

We're you a c-suite person?

I'd remember, you are getting the edited version of events, there may be others on his phone (along w girlfriend). Sometimes guardians only share part of the story out of embarrassment, esp if they're trying to pull the "you can't just go looking for crimes" card. Remember, a lot of criminals are found after being pulled over in a traffic stop. Police have to be able to act on evidence lawfully obtained.  I'd just try not to assume there's some police scandal until you sit in court and listen to all charges yourself.

Difficulty regulating emotions and conflict with authority figures sounds like normal 16 year old behavior. Your attorney should be able to rip that apart, besides the fact that it’s 13 years old.

Your name and where you go to school are not protected information.

She did get J into transition services. I think this was part of her goal. She specifically said J was not to work until after transition services. Even though he has a job already lined up for him.  
  
She also put J into 4 years of a special theater intended for mostly non-verbal disabled children, though he is, as I mentioned, a fully functioning individual. These are beautiful programs and I'm thankful they exist for the children and young adults that need them, I just feel that H has been extorting them and, as someone else put, infantizing him.

That exact thing has happened on these wage cases. Then comes the inevitable, well you broke this or were a terrible employee, etc.  OP, make sure to get all correspondence about this in writing!

They ignored my discovery request though

The court granted your discovery motion? 

So they have not proven anything consequential

Piss on my leg and call it rain is the cornerstone of good approaches to debt right up until they actually file suit.  But the judge isn't as malleable as putting a collector through their FDCPA paces.

NAL, but why are you co-mingling finances if you are not married? In the event that you break up, it’ll be confusing to sort through.

Another red flag is that most school districts would have destroyed your school records by now (they're only obligated to keep records for 7 years in most contexts), so even if they went through legal channels to get them, most school districts wouldn't have been able to provide anything. 

If these were purely school-based services, this is a potential FERPA violation.

If they were documented in a more medical setting, this is a potential HIPAA violation.

Potentially, both laws could apply depending on what exactly happened.

The only situation I could see that wouldn't have involved something shady happening (while it's not impossible for people to get legal permission to access these sorts of records, it shouldn't happen without your knowledge at minimum) is if you (or your parents) had copies of these records at home already, and your ex found them in an area you had given him permission to be.

Gonna be honest, he’s yelled, sworn at me, aggressive on phone and in person. Idk if that’s normal. I can take it, but didn’t expect it.

I believe it is interfering with the sidewalk it has pushed it up and created a large bump, but is there really no other recourse than to cut down an other healthy tree??

Aside from everything else, what teenager doesn’t have trouble regulating their emotions and issues with authority? That sounds so extraordinarily normal to me.

The biggest red flag here is the landlord's response. If the laundry room is on your meter then this isn't really your bill to pay. I'd keep the evidence and stop taking his word for it.

They ignored my discovery request though and have not proven their ownership. So they have not proven anything consequential

well idk how to prove that was my thought process but it was 🤷 not saying it was a smart thought process

I do apologize for the lack of clarity, the security officer spoke to someone at my place of work completely across town that he didn’t know worked there if that makes more sense. Essentially told a random person my first last name place of work description and where I go to school to simplify it. Thank you for your help!

I'd be less worried about what's in the notes and more worried about how they got them. Using therapy records from when you were 16 to judge you at 29 feels really strange.

Being subpoenaed is not enough. The client would have to agree to the release of records. It would take a court order to obtain them without the client’s consent, and that can only come from a judge.

It means whatever you've discussed with your attorney in regards to the litigation of this matter is still privileged information whether they still work for you or not. The only person that can sever the attorney/client privilege is the client themselves. For example, if you reported this attorney to the bar for something that happened during the course of their representation, you would have have severed the attorney client privilege on the matter which would allow the attorney to defend himself in terms of any disciplinary procedure where he would have to explain his version of the allegations.

He’s got a juvenile criminal defense lawyer. They’re most likely doing it to get a plea deal- his original charge was tampering with evidence and now they’re charging him with assault with a deadly weapon as well. The assault is a much harder one because there’s no forensic evidence pointing to him (no gunpowder residue on his hands or clothes, no blood, no DNA or fingerprints on the weapon, and the other person he was with had his fingerprints and blood on him, etc). He’s said already that he was there against his will and forced to take the evidence under duress, so I think they’re just throwing anything that will stick.

Thank you for your detailed response. Obviously this whole situation sucks but I appreciate getting some clarity and insight on this.

Psychologist here, APA guidance (and common state law) is to consider whether to destroy or continue maintaining the records after the minimum retention period, but I'm not aware of any state that has a mandate to destroy records after the retention period (it's good practice, sure, but not actually required).

A yard full of broken glass isn't something most people would expect to discover after buying a house. If it's really that widespread, I'd have a hard time believing the previous owner didn't know. Definitely worth talking to a lawyer before accepting that this is all on you.

I will be seeking that, trust me lol. 

I hope that the constant stress and anxiety will end soon.

i did with the 1st water and all she said was “ok” so i continued

In general, one party can't change the terms of a contract on their own. Additionally, threatening to change one term of a lease doesn't automatically void the whole lease. 

Without reviewing whatever your husband signed, it's likely that he will only be obligated to continue paying $250 + 30% through the end of the term.

That said, there **may** be a provision in the agreement he signed that says the community representatives can change the terms with some notice.

He needs to review what he signed or have an IN business/contracts attorney do the same and let him know what his options are relative to the signed lease/sublease/license - whatever it was.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Did you got tell your manger like the time with the shoes? Do you think there’s someone watching every camera at every second and writing down everything employees take to bill them? You realize that would be absurd right?

You say she kept the car after the divorce was finalized.   It sounds like its her car, not yours?

Did your divorce decree say anything about the car and/or the loan on the car?

the only evidence they had were screenshots of a Cabelas website of statements. 

That's the evidence on which most collection suits are won. 

sent their lawyer a discovery request for a bill of sale specific to my alleged debt, a chain of ownership

That's certainly the playbook.  They'll win with the generall bill of sale and the spreadsheet listing your account and the affidavit or statement of someone.  

any contract with my name on it and a full transaction record of the card to show how they got their number. 

They don't need either of those to win. 

What should I do next?

You can press this as far as you like.  It sounds like perhaps you did not actually file a discovery motion with the court.  And you perhaps should.  

There's a some degree of reality here.  It sounds like they probably have what they need to win.  You're burning goodwill that might be helpful to you in trying to get a payment plan instead of a wage garnishment.

This response was brought to you by the letters A and I

I’m sorry to hear about what you are going through. Custody issues can be a really difficult thing to go through. It sounds like you have an amazing therapist. Hold on to her, in case she no longer takes your insurance work something out with her. A good therapist like her is hard to find.

I’m thinking that he is floored by your foolishness, not anything on Walmart’s part.

Nobody believes that you thought you could just steal shit from your employer and someone would magically watch it on camera and bill you.

In Iowa there needs to be a written agreement for deductions.  They can make him sign one or fire him, but cannot automatically deduct things.  I have made employers learn that one the hard way.

A lot of time cities have easements that run from the center of the road and feet into a property. It's there for things like maintaining power, telephone, internet, sewage lines, and sidewalks. If your grandfather's trees are within that easement, the city may be able to cut them down if they're interfering with any of those things named above. It sounds like they're already interferring the sidewalk.

Got it, thank you for the detailed response!

He does have a lawyer right now!! But since he’s a minor and I’m not his legal guardian I can’t discuss things with his lawyer, which is why I thought I’d ask here, since I was curious more than anything.

It makes sense if you consider OP is itself an AI, or if he/she used AI to write this story.  This is almost exactly how AI responds to being called out.

It has to be a written agreement for them to do so in Iowa under 91A.  Of course, they could make him sign something and fire him if he does not agree.  But they would owe him for all deductions two years prior to date of filing suit.

Find another job. There are so many jobs out there.

Thank you. That's what I was thinking as well, and hoping to hear.

The law does not require that officers ignore things they see in furtherance of a legitimate warrant.  

But if your family member has been charged with possession of child pornography, they should discuss this with their lawyer.

I applaud you for doubling down on your position, while providing absolutely no evidence for your position. You may want to consider representing yourself pro se in all court actions going forward. I want to hear what happens.

"Threatened with felony theft of wildlife charges"

If not for the unending hassle of it all, it would be interesting to push them into trying to make this stick.

What county was this?

Like others have said the math ain’t mathin’ and you’re not clearing anything up. It sounds like you got licensed, got a dui, then disclosed it after and now you’re being reviewed again. 

There is no way you got a dui 4.5 years ago and it happened before you were licensed 6 years ago unless the dates are flipped.

That's an awful lot of not very important stuff. 

The remedies to eviction are:

1. Get current on rent. 
2. Make a deal with landlord.  It sounds like landlord has offered such a deal. 
3. Arrange the surrender of the property to avoid the actual eviction.  

If you can't do 1 or 2 you should look seriously at 3.

Well have him move in with you now and with the job and see.

Sounds like you need a better attorney bc a good one would push way back on that for every reason

Any evidence of a crime found incidental to a search warrant is fair game, so long as it was discovered in the lawful execution and scope of that warrant.

Unfortunately, possession of child pornography is not generally covered by so-called "Romeo and Juliet" or like-age exceptions that statutory rape charges are.  They are relatively strict liability statutes that define "minor" as someone under the age of 18 -- **not** under the age of consent.  There have been a few known cases of a minor being charged with child pornography for having pictures of **themselves** on their phones or computers.

Without knowing what the original crime is, it's entirely possible that the prosecutor is using those images as leverage to secure a plea bargain to the original charge -- but they would in all likelihood be able to charge the crime of possession based on their existence.

Your family member needs **immediate** assistance from a criminal defense attorney, preferably one specializing in such crimes.

They violated HIPAA and now you can sue them

Yes. As mentioned, these aren't total meltdowns. I don't want to make it seem like he's on the ground yelling and screaming. When it happens, he gets pissed off and then goes about his day.

You are not the first person to come up with this idea.  Your attorney has probably had clients that have wanted or tried to pull this stunt in the past.  They are not going to assist you in an end run around an order of protection.  "I was saying it to the room and not her" is absurdly transparent and not a fig leaf that will save you from the consequences of your actions.

Listen to your attorney.  Put this behind you.  Ideally (and I say this from a position of sincere care and without judgement) you should also seek some counseling to deal with the psychological issues that are driving you to pursue this course of action.

Not something most lawyers will learn unless they seek it out or they go into a field that requires it. But a family attorney handling a custody dispute should have at least a basic understanding.

As long as the police are executing a lawful search warrant, they can bring charges for anything they find incidentally during the lawful execution of the search warrant.

For example, if the police get a search warrant to search your house for a stolen car, they can’t prosecute you for drugs that they find in your sock drawer. There is no conceivable way the car could be in your sock drawer, so the search wouldn’t be lawful. But if they have a warrant to search for drugs and they open your closet (since drugs could fit in your closet) and find a murdered body, they could prosecute you for murder.

If they had a lawful search warrant to go through the phone data, they can prosecute for anything they locate on the phone during the execution of the warrant.

State of Illinois will provide services for up to age 21 for special education kids. 

This may be what you ex is looking at. Or not. This is what the state provides if you apply for it. I would contact the kids school to see if she’s filed extension of services and even if they approved it.  

If nothing as done by her and or school denied a claim then you have evidence to take to a lawyer to demonstrate that her filing is not for his interest but hers. 

Suggest looking into some aspects of his ongoing continuing support requirements and get a lawyer. The lawyer will be able to more succinctly tell her to stop filing petty motions. And the lawyer can ask that their fees be paid by her due to the frivolous filing ( if it is frivolous).

a (competent and experienced) divorce lawyer for sure deals with these statutes and regulations all the time

hostile work environment, you have.

NAL. CPS deals with abuse. Call them, or talk to a school counselor or teacher.

This is very strange for two reasons.  Other posters have surely mentioned them already.

1 - How did they get your records?  I can't speak to Oregon law but only you (or potentially your parents when you were a minor -- in some states, not even parents have access for minors above a certain age) can access those records.

2 - It is bizarre that your ex and/or their attorney thought records from 13 years ago when you were a child were in any way relevant to now unless you are doing literally the exact same things described in those records.

To answer your questions directly:

(not an Oregon attorney - you should be asking your attorney these questions)

Anything can be subpoenaed (there may be some ethics or jurisdiction specific rules).  What should happen in response to a subpoena is that the therapist/business files a motion to quash the subpoena and you are also notified and have an opportunity to file a motion to quash.  There is almost certainly substantial case law in your state about when these records can be accessed and they are almost certainly extremely narrow.  Most of this area of law is regulated heavily at the federal level.

There is always many possible bases to exclude evidence.  The only limit is your attorney's imagination and how much time they are willing to put in.  I'll list some obvious ones: if the records were literally stolen; not relevant 401; more prejudicial than probative 403; etc.  In general, as I pointed out above, I'm curious why the opposing party would even think these records are helpful.  Normally, you don't file something without explaining specifically why.  Lay people think court records just have treasure troves of documents, but in most cases, almost all of the documents you obtain or use to prepare your case are never filed with the Court.

Maybe.  I would start by contacting the therapist/business from which these records were obtained.  If they are in PDF form, there is potentially some info in the metadata if it wasn't scrubbed.

As a lawyer who does family law I would be surprised to say the least to have these records show up in a custody dispute between adults for a lot of reasons, so I am not sure this should shake your confidence in the lawyer.  Unless there are important details you are leaving out (clients LOVE to do this), there is a lot of unusual stuff here.

Even if the case is closed? What do you mean by the last sentence? I would be dumb to fire someone who would be done probably by the end of the week

True, but OP has taken no reasonable steps that you and I would normally take, such as going to the bank and asking how an account in my name was opened without my authorization or how someone else was able to authorize a transfer from her personal account and where did it go.

NAL, work for a bank

1) Open a new bank account at a new bank, that you have no prior relationship with. Go in person and ask that no paper statements get mailed to your address. Reroute your direct deposit. Enable two factor authentication and biometric login.

2) Get a new phone that he doesn’t have the access code to. Keep it in your car or somewhere he can’t access at night while you sleep. Put your banking app on that phone.

(A women’s shelter should be able to advise on scanning your existing phone for spyware, but that’s not my area of expertise)

3) Don’t tell him about the above until you have the new account and phone set up. Once you have your new account working that he doesn’t know about, withdraw all funds that you earned from the joint accounts (and if your contributions/earnings are more than half, take your full amount anyway - you’re not married). If you don’t know how to access the investment account, call them first before withdrawing funds from the other accounts. Get your own login established and schedule an outgoing transfer to get your own funds back - sent to your new account. Then immediately go to the branches for your checking and savings and withdraw your funds. I highly recommend doing these actions immediately while he’ll be occupied in an important meeting.

4) File a police report for identity fraud. Get the report number and cite that when creating an FTC report. Submit copies of both reports when going to the financial institutions where he opened accounts in your name without your consent. Submit a fraud report with the financial institution and ask them to close the fraudulently opened accounts. 

Exception: if he put his own money in an investment account he opened in your name, you may prefer to gain access and control of that account, rather than close it, so that you can reimburse yourself for the funds he stole from you.

“Is this something that is fine? Again it’s not directed towards her.”

No, this is the exact opposite of “fine” 

“his response was he’ll no. He said it’s not my choice.”

That’s because he’s saving you from yourself. 

“he then said if I don’t like the answer I can fire him. “

Yes, many attorneys refuse to continue representing clients determine to self- destruct. 

“The attorney client privilege will be done after that appearance.”

No, it won’t. Attorney/client privilege endures.

It was also part of the old lady’s trusts and her will.

Yes, I could have gotten out of it, but that wasn’t the topic under discussion.

I understand.  When facing difficulty, many people tend to overexplain.  I'm just trying to let you know that this makes it less likely for someone to be able to offer you good advice, because the details that matter get lost in the picture you're trying to paint.

The fact that she is trying to spin "he had an IEP" into "he is a nonfunctional disabled adult" absent any other issues would be something that I would think would work in your favor as your attorney should be trivially able to refute that.  Outside some rather extreme circumstances, "the idea of going to work makes me feel nervous" is not going to convince anyone that there is a bonafide disability requiring ongoing parental or state support.

It would be more impactful if you'd actually appear at the hearing to testify under oath.

Can he hold down a full time job without a meltdown that causes him to lose it?

Whatever this bullshit compliance team is has nothing to do with your license.  The state controls your license not your job

god this is making me scared to share anything with my therapist…

You’ve been scammed, there is no recourse for that the odds of even finding the scammer are slim. Situations like this are why Depop warns people to not send money outside their payment options.

A court is not Toastmasters. They are not going to let you go up there and act like this is a romcom. 

Your lawyer speaks for you in court. 

If you go in without a lawyer and try this stunt, they will shut you down.

I plan on bringing her to small claims for the $1000 damage she did to my car

Medical records person here. This is one of the few cases where HIPAA slams down. Your medical records were potentially given out illegally and are being used against you. 99% of HIPAA violations do not see a courthouse. They are usually accidental or innocent, self reported (by the violator), and cause no damage to the victim. As long as the mistake is caught, reported, and corrected against ever happening in the future, the governing body lets it go and there aren’t damages to be recovered. It’s in cases like this, where it’s used against you for custody, in court, or for being fired (usually in regards to an STI but sometimes mental health records) that the governing body slams down and you have the right to sue for damages. You need to find out how they got those records. 

If it came from your old therapist or the school, report it. Report it hard. Spell out the damages it has done and how those records are being held against you. Just being your spouse does not give your ex the right to get those records from someone being held to HIPAA. If your ex got those from your parents, there is nothing you can do. They aren’t held to HIPAA. find out where those records came from today. Report it even if you don’t know because I bet they will investigate and potentially subpoena your ex for how he or she got those records. Those records are drawing out the custody battle, increasing your lawyer fees and potentially costing you custody (potentially doesn’t count as a damage but if you lose custody, it will count). Report this immediately

I understand. Thank you for the insight. I definitely get it

I am, but just an fyi, my “harm” was 10x less than her lol. Not even exaggerating to make myself feel better

I went through this. My father had the courts and the lawyers by the nuts. He was able to lie and manipulate everyone. Once we were the age of 16, we were allowed to refuse to go. But before that the court told my mom that if we refuse to go, she would be arrested.

Not a lawyer. Used to be a petroleum engineer.

You need a **mineral rights** attorney who is familiar with these specific contracts. Your right to compensation in Pennsylvania depends on several factors (where the well was drilled, what geologic formation, how deep, etc.) 

There are situations where a company can drain resources from beneath your land, without compensating you, and it is 100% legal. Stamping your feet and complaining they’re stealing from you will not help you, you need an attorney who is familiar with this exact situation

Not sure about the retention requirements for Oregon, but when I'm training our school staff on educational record retention, I tell them we are required to keep them until the heat death of the universe.

I hate to break it to you, but the likelihood of you recovering anything here is probably pretty slim, unless your chargeback requests are approved -- which is probably a 50/50 proposition given the details.

You could/should also report this to the police both in your jurisdiction and wherever the "seller" supposedly lives.  Again, that's not going to get your money back, but it might build a paper trail that you and/or others could use later on if they continue to run their scam(s).

Also, be very aware that you will likely receive outreach from someone or a company claiming that they can help you get your money back. **THIS IS A CONTINUATION OF THE SAME SCAM.** Do not fall for it, do not give **anyone** any more information or money related to this transaction.

Yo, if you need somebody to reach out for you, I will gladly help. If you need to do some type of three-way operation where I talk to them and you tell me what you need said, I will help you

I said I w wouldn’t directed towards her. Obviously, in the end I have the longer order of protection anyway.

But I would be saying after we withdraw.

There's no procedural mechanism from which you're allowed to address the court once the motions have been decided. If the court *allows* you to make a statement and you said anything that was basically an admission to the allegations presented before the court, the court could decide to change their decision about dismissing everything. Or, if heaven forbid, you end up back in their court over another matter involving this person, whatever you said on the record could then come back and bite you for this subsequent litigation.

There's no tangible benefit for doing what you're wanting to do, only potential downsides.

Not possible.  Emancipation is for things like child movie stars.  You need to be making enough money for housing (no roommates), medical, household expenses, and be in school or equivalent.  It also takes awhile, so even if you met the impossible requirements, you'd likely turn 18 first.  Get a job, open a bank account in only your name, save every dime, move out at 18.

Just leave it be.  You already did your harm.  Move on.

This is made up for engagement.

You should read the above again.  And again.  And then again if exactly what a terrible plan this is has not yet sunk in.

Your motives in using court as an excuse to talk to/at the person with an order of protection against you will be just as clear to the court as they are to us.

NAL, just someone who just won a small claims case and won the maximum damages possible. The judge isnt gonna give a shit and will likely punish you for gran standing. That’s exactly what happened to my ex-landlord, she tried to go on a monologue and the judge shut that shit down promptly and told her she’d be removed from court if she brought it up again.

Emancipation is not a remedy for abuse or other home problems. It is a solution for financial circumstances that don’t sound to apply to you.

Emancipation is for minors who, immediately upon emancipation, can already provide for themselves. 

Being “willing to get a job” does not get you there. You need to demonstrate how you are already paying for housing, utilities, food, transportation, healthcare, etc).

The timeline thing is only being brought up a lot because what you wrote doesn't make sense. Did you mean that you got your license 6 years ago and the DUI was 4.5 years prior to that?

The court is not your personal soapbox to stand on and elocute from.

The court is there to hear relevant testimony as evidence when it is required.

There is no evidence required to withdraw an order of protection voluntarily, unless the withdrawal is contested (why the restrained party would contest the withdrawal of an order of protection is beyond me, but I suppose they technically could).

Thus, the proper procedure is to file the withdrawal without requesting a hearing.

That you "want to say something" is irrelevant to the legal process to withdraw the order.

Your lawyer is doing the right thing, by the book, and not bothering the court with an unnecessary hearing that would waste time and money.

Contact the state board and ask about this. Also contact the state boards of education about this. There may be violations. Also have your lawyer contact the bar association to check on this. Also after so many years the information is no longer relevant as people change. Someone is pulling a fast one

Yeah that guy was getting 1G

Legal advice for all: Never date/marry an accountant.

They can withhold both until subpoenaed, and then request to still not release therapy notes and only release what you're referring to as medical.

Just provide the year you received the DUI and the year you were licensed. Simple and clears everything up.

I have heard that there is a difference between a personal privately retained therapist and a therapist who works for the school district.  

I have witnessed private therapists advising against using school therapists for certain issues as privacy is not guaranteed or as comprehensive as a private therapist.

In my state, my professional licensing board will generally allow people to maintain their license even after drug or alcohol convictions if they complete a prescribed rehab program.  Once completed,  the offense is expunged.  I have seen a couple of doctors go through the process more than once.  Do nothing unless your state board contacts you.  I would look for another job as I wouldn't want to work for an organization that would treat you this badly.

It was clearly stated in the contract -- both the time period and the penalty for late notice. These provisions are very common in residential leases and I've see far higher penalties for far lower rents.

Hire/rent a skid steer. Maybe a road grader....push the top 6 or so inches off to the far edge of ur property. Pile it up. Cover it with a tarp n some tires or something. Or spend more money hauling it to the dump. But then you'll need a loader or excavator to put it on a truck....thats probably a fair chunk of that 30k$ it will be quite a bit cheaper to just push it off to a far corner. The grass will grow back eventually.

NAL but a PT who works in a hospital. The most they could do is attempt to get your states licensing agency to review your licenses but unless something new comes up there is a next to zero chance your license is in danger. I know plenty of therapist with worse background who have a licenses. 

That being said I would start updating your resume and be ready to start job hunting. I would be more worked with this being used to fire you. Post mergers they love to reduce staff. Even more so if you were part of a non profit network before the merger.

The fact that you're worried about retaliation doesn't automatically mean retaliation will happen, but I wouldn't ignore that concern either.

This sounds more like a certification rather than an accredited college degree. Can you explain the program in more detail?

NAL, but never "offer" to let them search your car. You have no idea what they'll find. 

My son in his idiot teens was driving my car w/o a valid license and got pulled over. The car was then legally impounded and searched. If they search your car there is NO DOUBT because they find everything and I mean everything. When I went to pick up the car I had to move stuff out of the footwell on the driver's side just to drive it home, they had pulled everything out of everywhere and just dumped it on the floor. The seats had been taken apart and panels were pulled off. It was a huge mess and they didn't find anything illegal or they would have kept the car. 

The bright side was that when we cleaned it out we found so much stuff that had been lost including several sets of keys to our house and other car. Also there was over $60 in coin and small bills rolling around on the floor. There was stuff that we didn't recognize and had no idea was in there, perhaps somebody we had given a ride to had dropped it. My son had some questionable friends at the time so it was a stroke of luck that it was all "clean" because he, as driver, or I, as owner, could have faced charges. 

We even joked (much later) that we needed the cops to "detail" a car when it got too messy.

I’m trying to come up with possible explanations for the lawyer being complacent about this apparent violation of privacy. Maybe they do know but are being myopic about the divorce. Maybe they don’t know. Maybe they don’t have time for it. It does seem like the sort of thing a lawyer would want to investigate if they were a vigorous advocate for their client.

He is as ready as most 18 year olds, especially these days.

Was the DUI offense more than 1.5 years before the conviction?  Thats the only way I can see this timeline making sense.

It’s unusual that your board approved without conditions. DUI’s usually have a negative impact on licensure in the health field

What does that mean?

He got all of her friends in on it too to tell her she’s been acting differently?

That would depend on the actual terms of the NDA you signed. What does it say about their company making derivative works utilizing your confidential information? And did the NDA have a set term in which information had to be protected?

Ya I'm not going down that avenue. Not because I don't want custody or anything like that, but because it's not the point. They are adults, he is capable, I shouldn't have to pay her. I would rather give the same amount I currently pay her to my kids. This isn't about me not getting the money back, it's about the money not going to her. Especially because I know it's not warranted or properly allocated.

OP - someone I know had a tornado hit their house and there was window glass all over their yard, removing and replacing the soil was part of the claim. Glass is absolutely a hazard.  I’m so sorry this happened.

I understand. But I would be saying after we withdraw. Not before. We already both have OoPs so there’s no hurting the case for myself

Thank you, this is the EXACT point I'm trying to make.

Yes, as I just said, I missed that and was assuming based on the phrases/wording she was using

I want to say a brief statement that isn’t directed towards her/talking to her. But something more that I hope that we both can now move on from this situation and all of the stress and anxiety we have experienced can come to an end

You should read the above again.  And again.  And then again if exactly what a terrible plan this is has not yet sunk in.

Your attorney is not going to help you sabotage yourself and court is not a venue where you get to make a captive audience listen to you speak.  Listen to your attorney and put this behind you.  Your other alternative is to fire your attorney, appear pro se, and make your situation worse in every conceivable way, though I would not suggest this route.

I'm thinking ada is gonna have a field day with that lawsuit.

The one the School District had would suck up complete bottles as well the broken glass.  If you can’t find a contractor with one, possibly you could rent one from a rental shop or say Home Depot. They do make smaller walk behind ones that you likely could buy and resell when you are done.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

I think very few kids, autistic or not, are ready to be independent at 18. It sounds like OPs son is extremely high functioning. I'm unsure he should be treated any differently from any other kid in this regard.

Was this written with AI?

Sorry, I realize I'm a rambler. Was just trying to paint the picture. 

When I say legally disabled, I just mean he has a diagnosis of autism as documented by the school system. Like, he has an IEP. Wasn't sure how else to label that. He does not have any general difficulty that seriously impacts his life. I'll update to clarify.

Seems very unethical since you were a minor. How exactly did they get copies of the therapy notes? This should be reported to the licensing board as a potential HIPAA violation, as you didn't consent

Even without the financial abuse, you shouldn't be sharing finances with someone you're not married to. He can walk out of your life with zero repercussions or liabilities. Especially him having access to your bank accounts, personal information, etc. Sounds like you need to separate yourself from this person and see if your finances and quality of life increases.

they’re illegally stealing

That’s a *bizarre* position not serving you well.

It is not harassment to record so long as the recording is done from the neighbors property.  Yelling at folks who drive by "fast" (fast is a subjective term)? I tend to do that...and would not think it is harassment

You can certainly call the cops...but frankly speaking nothing you describe sounds like criminal misconduct.  So the cops may refuse to engage (they have that right)

If they feel harassed (that the behavior is targeted at them with the intent to annoy them)? They could consider a civil lawsuit for harassment

They should also probably not use this as an argument for custody... "I want to change the status quo because the other parent wants more money" rarely works out too well for whoever is arguing that.

That can definitely backfire 😂

This exactly. As long as it was disclosed when you applied for your license, you are fine.

Regarding your work contract. That is a whole other ball game. If the initial company’s policies allow for you to have a DUI in your background, and you disclosed it upon hire, then you were good to go. But now that they have sold the business to another entity, that new entity could have different hiring requirements. But the new company can’t expect that the state board is going to change your license status because of the new company’s contractual expectations.

There is so much unnecessary information here that it makes it hard to read.  You might want to edit this and focus on the salient facts to get some better answers...  that you have furniture for them, bought cars, etc, really isn't relevant to "is support required going forward?"

You say your son is legally disabled (which would tend to indicate that he's not simply "on the spectrum" but has some difficulty that seriously impacts his life) so continued support ***may*** be warranted.  With this in mind, the denial of your motion pending a hearing makes sense (as does your "but I barely got to talk" bit.  The court will deal with the specifics at a later time when both parties are prepared to present on the issue).

It says her location is Texas

Absolutely. This would be a must do.

It’s legal but you have the right to question witnesses. Odds are the therapist won’t want to be involved and they won’t use those records.

Yes, this is common.  But it’s not legally binding.

Is this something that is fine? 

No, it's stupid to admit to anything on the record and it's a waste of time for the court for you to give speeches. 

his response was he’ll no. He said it’s not my choice.

It's not your choice. I heard a judge describe a lawyer's representation decision making ability like a patient needing a medical procedure done and hiring a surgeon. You can decide you want the surgery. You can decide who does the surgery. But once the surgery is happening, you don't get to stay awake and order the surgeon on what they can and can't do to you once they've opened up your body. Those decisions are now in the hands of the surgeon because they are the ones that are qualified to do what they're doing.

That's the case here. You can hire your lawyer. You can tell them you want to withdraw your petition. You don't get to dictate how the lawyer handles withdrawing your petition.

His response was appropriate. You were wanting to go into court, essentially admit to doing what you've been accused of doing and then hoping that the court would grant all the withdrawals. That's just tempting fate. 

he then said if I don’t like the answer I can fire him.

That's an appropriate response to you wanting something that could tank your case and is against the judgment of the lawyer.

Oh wow totally missed that. I was going off of some of the words/phrases she was using (“had a row”) but you’re totally right

He wasnt sober when he posted this.

Listen to your attorney.

Often the less you say, the better.

Am I allowed to point out on this subreddit that this comment was 100% generated by AI?

Therapist can withhold therapy information but not medical information…

Psychotherapy notes can be strictly withheld…. Many even keep medical notes and psychotherapy notes separate.

Parents can leave instructions as to who they want to raise their child. I don’t know if those instructions are in a will or some other legal document.

I tend to agree with your lawyer.  The courtroom is not, generally, a platform for one to "grandstand"...and that (in my view) is what you are describing.  You want to "say your piece"...don't wast the court's time...they do not care (literally).

She says TX in the post

After a merge, companies may try to let people go if there are redundant positions.  They may be hoping you leave without them having to terminate.  Hold strong.

She tried to spin it to me at first like she was doing me a favor by allowing me to pay the bills. Which was naive of me- that I admit.
I got a job opportunity in Arizona and told her that I’d be leaving and she needed to figure it out and she went ballistic. 

I see now what I did not see then. My dad made good money and she never wanted for anything but she spends beyond her means already so I think she will do whatever she can to secure her meal ticket. 
I’m trying to go about this the most concrete, legal, way I can. 

But I do not want her to have this house either. Maybe that is me being petty too but I have been paying her bills and I’m tired of it.

No they can’t pressure you into surrendering your license because they have nothing to do with the board. You would need to be doing something currently deemed unethical/illegal to bring your licensure into question and then they would need to report it to the licensing board. With all that being said they could let you possibly go for some reason but they can’t ask you to surrender your license.

Yes, the lawyer recommended the demand letter, but he wanted to write it for us (and charge another $250 to do do), which is why I did it on my own. 

He indicated this was a low enough amount that they'd prefer to pay it rather than go through mediation, but high enough considering they're illegally stealing gas/oil from beneath our property.

OP is very confused and seems to be conflating hospital credentialing with board licensure. The timeline also doesn’t make sense like you said. Sounds like there’s more to the story than OP is disclosing

Is it possible one of your parents had access to a copy? Not suggesting that they gave the notes to your ex, but maybe the ex scooped around and found them.

I'll address the insurance part, there's nothing unusual or suspect going on. They are pending all the claims to know how to split up the limits if that's necessary.

Yes, limits can be requested to be disclosed in CT, you can Google the proper process for CT.

I work for a school district and am not a lawyer. But my thoughts are unless  these records were subpoenaed, the school district could not have released those records without a signed doc called “release of records”.  We ask parents to sign them often enough when they request communication between outside sources or want service in the district that requires some info from an outside source.  

I would go to the school district office and request to see if release of info was signed by someone.  Perhaps someone falsified a signature?  The ex by chance?  If not, you can file complaints on the district and you can sue them.   

If an ex falsified a signature, you can file charges for identity theft and idk what else, talk to you lawyer.   

My gut is that your ex falsified something to get that info to their lawyer.   Go to the source.  Go down to the school.  Request the records. Request to see any release of info.   Even to get copies of records you have to sign docs.   Go get those.

I am wondering if I can break the lease **without** penalty and get my money back since it’s not habitable at move in.

Probably not right away. KY doesn't have any "cooling off" laws regarding leases, and I doubt early termination is an option in your lease, but you can check. You can break the lease but there might be penalties, and you might have to fight them in court. Did you not/were you not able to visit the unit beforehand?

Your options are going to largely depend on where you are located in the state. In addition to state laws, there will be county and local laws and regulations regarding pests/nuisances. In some jurisdictions you can ask to have your hotel/other living arrangements costs reimbursed. If you live in a bigger town/city, there might be a housing department or similar that deals with LL/tenant matters.

Finding out who to call might be challenging too since some counties might require LL permits/licenses and will have an oversight process while others may only have a Housing, Zoning or Health Department person who handles complaints. If you can get a local or county person to document the situation right away, that may help in your efforts. Cat urine and feces are pretty hazardous to health in general.

You'll want to provide written notice to the LL by certified snail mail with signature on delivery to their offices or hand delivered and signed, to start any clock ticking. You may want to call animal control to remove the cats (or if there's a local TNR group - maybe they can assist in relocating them).

It isn't illegal, but it may be against the student code of conduct, and you may face punishment if so. That will depend completely on the school and the code of conduct, so you're unlikely to get any legal answers beyond that.

First sentence says they haven’t even gone through probate

This is obviously not legal advice, but you may want to start job hunting. Whatever happens, do not voluntarily surrender your license.

Click the driver Improvement link in my first post, it has info and further links to the two actual statutes—one is the program and the other contains the specific violations.

It's two convictions for other Driver Improvement violations only, so check that list of specific violations and ensure you're not about to hit 3. If they're not on that list, they don't count towards your total for driver Improvement.

If you do hit 3 in-scope violations within 24 months, restriction but not suspension is the punishment along with the fine, which is also defined at that link in my first post.

I hope this goes without saying, but please consider driving in a more responsible manner if you're approaching the limits here. Driving is a team sport and we all win when we can safely use the roads to go about our business.

Sounds like they want to fire you and are looking for an excuse. They can’t make you surrender your license. I would start looking for another employer.

Ok, so I’ve calmed down a little but I have some questions.
 I didn’t have any official things in my name in any other state. We were staying with friends, and I was cleaning homes with my fiance. We didn’t even make much for each year. It definitely wasn’t enough to live off of. We had people gifting us money here and there. It all feels too much of a grey area and blurred lines to me. Do they usually open an investigation before just arresting people off the bat in Louisiana?

You're right, I spoke too soon -- if she was on the title, she would be a survivor in title and own the house outright.  I'll scratch out my prior comment.

"I've held my license for six years"

"This was four and a half years ago" 

So were you actually fully licensed during the DUI or not?

Not strictly true if she was on it, but as it appears not, it’s a moot point.

Education records are kept for 75 years and therapy through the school are supposed to be kept 7 years after turning 18. Sounds like this started before the destroy date. Is your lawyer aggressive enough? Your ex is not playing.

I would expect the $2k to cause them to tell you to fuck right off. 

Did the lawyer tell you to ask for $2k as trespass?  That at a blush sounds crazy. And certainly their position will be “when you’re paid all rent there’s no loss and no other compensation in order.”

~~Who's on the title doesn't matter if they were married -- intestacy laws will divide the house according to the terms of the law, house included.  People sometimes mix up estate law and community property law -- CP mostly applies only in divorces; estate law is entirely separate.~~

If she was on the title, she'd take ownership through survivorship, outside the probate process.

In WA when you are applying for your license through DoH you are required to declare, which you did. You disclose and the licensing board reviewed it and issued a license. You're fine. It's been reviewed. There's nothing to re-review. A single DUI is not sufficient.

It seems to have initiated when I reported inappropriate behavior with management , bullying and stalking
My new manager is the old ones best friend and came into the workplace with an issue with me 
I brought these concerns up with HR when it began last year.
I think because I reported her friend rather than her it doesn’t fall under protect retaliation?

Right. The bank is never going to solve this. 

In the best case your remedy will be suing the joint account holder when you’re 18. And if that joint is your guardian they’ll have room to say “no, that money was spent on food / clothes / band uniforms.”

She has legal rights to object to the distribution of the estate -- your best bet is to get a probate attorney to help you push the process through to the end.

The math's not mathing on this. 

1) You said the DUI happened 4.5 years ago before you got sober. You claim you've been sober since before being licensed. But you also claim to have been licensed for 6 years.

2) You were issued a license by the state after disclosing the DUI. However your employer is now telling you that you might have to voluntarily surrender your license. Your employer doesn't decide the fate of your license, the state does. Your employer can only determine the fate of your employment with them.

Fiber.  100-200Mbps over WiFi.  Unlimited Data.

You can contest distribution during probate, which is probably what she's doing.

Look up the dates you need to have the request to the court. It may be on the back of the ticket, or you may need to look online. You HAVE to have the request there in time, otherwise you broke the rule and it means nothing.

sorting the glass from the soil is not gonna be fun.  There would be way too much soil for that to work out.  The average cement truck holds about 10 cubic yards.  

Let's say a quarter of OP's 1.5 acre lot is contaminated (hopefully the house foorptint, walkways, etc ar mostly clear).  That's 1815 square yards of surface area to strip a foot deep.  That would be 605 square yards to process.  So 60+ cement trucks worth of soil to process.  

5 days tumbling per load, running a non-stop diesel engine at ~1.5 gal/hour is 10,800 gallons needed.  At current prices, about ~$5/gal, that's at least $50,000 in fuel on top of the cement truck and water costs.   

It would be cheaper to pay for the disposal and hire a lawyer, which is what OP should do.  At least send the invoice and demand letter.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

This would make sense why they needed someone present to collect the parcel. Good catch!

Don't have an industry insiders knowledge, but AFAIK the employer and the licensing board are completely separate.  The employer can report something to the board, but the status of your license is up to the board, not your employer.

That all being said, your employer can have their own standards all they want and can refuse to employ you, but your license is yours, not theirs. 

Refuse to "surrender" your license unless told to by the licensing agency.

Stay strong. And bring proof of the request to court. The judge will say you can't take a "deal" from the DA multiple times....  just trust that they have to follow their own rules. If they don't respond to a legitimate request for discovery (to show you the evidence they have against you), they break their own rules. Case is tossed.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Incorrect Subreddit**

* Hypothetical and general legal discussions belong in /r/legaladviceofftopic.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Is this two convictions for other class A violations, for the same violation, or any traffic violation at all?

Maybe, but nobody here can tell for sure from timing alone.  
  
When I dealt with a workplace issue, I learned that retaliation usually comes down to whether you engaged in a protected activity, whether the employer knew about it, and whether there was a negative employment action afterward.

You’ll probably write it better the second time around.

You can’t object probate. It has to happen

My court date is the 16th of this month, and this is in a small rural county where the court is very slow. I could totally imagine them not responding in 5-10 days.

Or the ex faked a request for records from OP.  Exes often have the info to do that in a way that makes it a big issue for the ex and her lawyer, but not the provider’s fault.

Your explanation still doesn't make sense.  You said you got the DUI four and a half years ago, during grad school, when you weren't licensed.  But then you say you've held the license for 6 years.  Which is it?

But how have you been licensed for six years when you got dui 4.5 years ago and didn’t apply for the license till after that ? Looks like you have been licensed three years, not six.

Seriously?  Sell the car and payoff the loan. Might have to reach into your pocket a bit.

Your child may have rights here that the grandfather doesn't, especially if there are wrongful death claims involved. California gets complicated fast with this stuff.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Personal Attack or Otherwise In Poor Taste**

Your comment has been removed because it contains a personal attack or is otherwise a tasteless comment.  Please review the following rules and focus on answering legal questions instead of insulting others.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

I had something similar in my child case. My lawyer did move to strike it. The strike got denied and then my lawyer pretty much used it against them. When someone is building a case especially in family law that is full of non-relevant items at some point it starts to make that individual look bad and discredits them.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

I get what you are saying. Again consulting an attorney is about the only real practical option you have to find out.

The timeline thing comes up a lot and I get why it looks weird on paper. I got the DUI in my last year of grad school, before I was licensed. Then I applied for my license and disclosed it at that point. So the sequence is: DUI -> finished grad school -> applied for license and disclosed -> got licensed. It's not that I held the license during the DUI, if that makes sense.

And yeah the last part is what scares me honestly. I do work with some vulnerable adult populations. That's probably why HR flagged it. They can't touch the license but they might not need to.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Is there a code of conduct associated with the school/class? Many institutions consider submitting previously produced work for new evaluation to be a form of academic misconduct.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Bad or Illegal Advice**

Your post has been removed for offering poor advice. It is either generally bad or ill advised advice, an incorrect statement or conclusion of law, inapplicable for the jurisdiction under discussion, misunderstands the fundamental legal question, or is advice to commit an unlawful act.  Please review the following rules before commenting further:

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

shouldn't any lawyers have basic knowledge about federal and their state laws protecting educational and medical records? especially for a family law laywer where such records would be frequently relevant. sounds like OP's may want a new lawyer?

Having just gone through this with my sister in law. If they fire you, it still may be difficult to get unemployment. Here's why. She may be able to claim misconduct by you not having your daughter vaccinated if it's company policy. Please make sure you get a copy of the company policy regarding vaccines and enrollment. And absolutely do not write a resignation letter. It's her fault for not reviewing your paper work before hiring you.

God I hope you're right. The terms were completed before I even applied, that's partly why I was so caught off guard by this whole thing. I disclosed everything, the board said "okay" and gave me the license. That felt like the end of the story to me.

What's messing with my head is that it's my employer pushing this, not the board. HR at the new health system apparently has their own "standards" and I don't know if they can pressure me into doing something the board never asked for.

The seller is in Poland

Did you confirm with FedEx whether or not there are customs duties or fees or tariffs that need to be paid? In my experience FedEx will pay the costs upfront and collect from the customer later. They will ask for payment when they try to make the delivery and if there is they will not just leave the package without that being taken care of. 

Occasionally I have to ship products internationally for my job and there is a 50/50 shot that the customer will call and be livid that they have to pay customs fees and duties on the shipment for it to be delivered to them.

Then you should apply for custody if he is disabled and needs it.  It does not sound from your description that he is ready to be independent.

In my state, they can be destroyed, but they are not required to be.

just say the word HIPPA and see what the judge says 

its bizarre are strict the guidelines are for HIPPA violations

Also, OP should be aware that refusing to write a resignation letter doesn't automatically guarantee receiving unemployment benefits. The Wisconsin DWD says that knowing something is a condition of employment and failing to take action to comply may make the employee ineligible for unemployment insurance benefits.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

It's not illegal, but it almost certainly counts as plagiarism in the context of your academic program. Talk to your prof about how they want you to handle this: it might be as simple as citing your prior work as a source, or you might have to rewrite the code.

You can be _very_ confident that your school will notice if you resubmit the same assignment. Checking assignments against past submissions is an off-the-shelf service provided by a lot of technical products for academia.

Roll it over to an IRA immediately!!!!!

Right- and I am FINE with that. 
I just want her gone and to move on.

She had reported it stolen before the incident. I’m unclear exactly what happened. It was her ex bf who had been driving the car while he lived with her.  She said he had run down and killed his new girlfriend.  Several days later she said the girl didn’t die. I checked the DCSO website and it listed Criminal Homocide among other things. No bond.  I also discovered he has a long record. 😡 I really don’t understand how he wasn’t in prison long before this. 
I checked their website yesterday and he’s not listed at all.  I assume that means he’s been transferred or released. I’m guessing though; I don’t know how these things work. Sister won’t tell me and I know I’ll not likely get the truth from her. She’s defended and stayed with him through many prior shenanigans. I really hope he’s in prison for a long time. He’s a horrible person.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

The OP referenced rolling with/shrugging off weeks of this kind of banter, but okay.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

The amount of posts I’ve seen of people being literally drugged or poisoned by their partners makes this so terrifying.

You don't need to write a resignation letter, but nothing you're telling us suggests they need to keep you or your daughter either. 

You have to accept that terrible things happen to people sometimes. It's like how the rest of society has to live with upticks in measles numbers because of dumbasses who refuse to vaccinate.

Feels highly unfair to many people forced to generic due to supply issues with Suboxone but seems there's no avenue for us unfortunately.

“Not doing great” is legally meaningless. She has a right to 1/3 of the estate. So if a probate judge says you can sell the house, 1/3 will go to her

I love making this joke to friends. My "permanent" record was so permanent that my high school couldn't verify I went to middle school. (I moved districts in between and also that middle school shut down literally right after I left). That took months and multiple three-way phone calls to resolve. I think after that middle school shut down the surrounding ones all said that a different middle school had my record.

This is so dirty. I don’t think you have much to worry about with the teenage records but how dare they

Do you want your kid to become an adult?

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

That was my first thought. I wouldn't be surprised if my mom still had copies of my teenage therapy records, and I'm OP's age. 

Could be somewhere digital, too. If you were to dig deep enough in my google account you'd probably find similar stuff. I've had it for decades and never delete anything. 

I think theft and snooping is very possible.

Your option is to realize that as long as you don't rectify the cause for your termination, you can be terminated.

You can rectify it by either arranging different childcare for your daughter or by doing the thing you asked not to suggest you to do.

I'm not an Oregon attorney, but I am a divorce lawyer. Before you go too hard on HIPAA and federal laws and all those things comments on here are repeating over and over, I would highly suggest researching your state specific laws. For example, my state explicitly has an exception to patient privacy laws for the purpose of custody cases - I can and have gotten therapy records of opposing parties as a matter of course. It is something I try and warn all my clients of. 

That said, if your attorney wasn't worried, I wouldn't jump to them being incompetent like most here seem convinced of. It's possible they know the judge won't care about therapy records that old from when you were a teenager, and has the opinion that them bringing it up will just make them look petty and foolish to the judge. Before doing anything drastic, ask them!

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Bad or Illegal Advice**

Your post has been removed for offering poor advice. It is either generally bad or ill advised advice, an incorrect statement or conclusion of law, inapplicable for the jurisdiction under discussion, misunderstands the fundamental legal question, or is advice to commit an unlawful act.  Please review the following rules before commenting further:

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Gotcha. The lawyers taking on the mass of clients are suing the brand name manufacturer specifically. So yes taking the generic they would not want your case. 

You can contact an attorney directly who works in this legal field and speak to them. I have no idea if the generic manufacturer is facing the same legal environment right now, but they would and could advise you. At the same time I wouldn’t get my hopes up because the “real money” for these types of cases come from class actions so many attorneys might not be interested in just an individual

Having an unvaccinated child is not a protected class. You can (and should be) be terminated for this. You are literally putting all other children there at risk.

It’s kinda weird how we’ve decided to let people abuse their children like this

How would one go through the probate process without her objecting? 

I have a consult this week but she is a nasty individual- I just want peace.

The only way is to go back in time and plead not guilty, or if you did commit the crime (not asking you to say if you did or not), not commit it.

I’d wonder about his parents maybe giving them to his ex.

Oregon lawyer here.  If your mental health is at issue with a custody battle (it often is for one or both parents), these records were likely lawfully subpoenaed as a part of discovery in the case.  That being said, you likely can have a strong argument they are not relevant due to age (they are old) and age (you were a minor at the time).  I suspect (but do not know for sure) your lawyer was surprised not that they could obtain the records, but that the Judge (and/or the opposing attorney) will think they are relevant.  I do think a Judge is not likely to rely on old mental health records from when you were a minor, especially if your situation has changed quite a bit since then.

They were married when he died. However, they were not doing great. But legally married.

The point about voluntary surrender functioning as an admission is the one people miss most often in these situations. It sounds like a neutral administrative step but it creates a record that doesn't exist if you simply wait for the board to contact you directly, which they haven't done.

Six years of clean practice, a disclosed conviction that the board already cleared, and no formal notice from anyone with actual authority over your license. That's a strong position to be in. The pressure you're feeling is coming entirely from your employer's compliance process, not from the board itself, and those are two completely separate things with very different consequences.

If the board wanted to act they would have sent something. Until then you have nothing to respond to officially.

She is not- not that I know of.

If your son is 22, then he is an adult.

He can make whatever decisions he wants at that time.  
Do you think an old man that he has never met and has not reason to trust is going to change his perception of you (you have had 22 years to define how he thinks about you, what is a 30 minute video by a dead person going to change).

Play stupid anti-vaxxer games, win stupid anti-vaxxer prizes....

Sounds like a legitimate reason to fire you for cause, which would negate unemployment anyhow.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

You refer to her as his ex wife? Is that correct and they were divorced before he died? Or is she his widow? 

Either way you need to complete the probate process to be able to do anything with the house. It’s not up to you to “let” her have the house or not- that will be decided by a court based on the rules intestate inheritance

I'm trying to really see if anyone on a generic form has any legal avenues.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

They will definitely keep appearing over time even after you think you get them all. The soil will keep pushing them up when it rains.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

While we love them, it’s not much different than furniture you bought during the relationship. You can’t split the couch so one gets it one gets half the fair market value of the item.

The landlord has the right to end the rental agreement since they are monthly. They've given 30 days written notice, your friend needs to move

If you are especially concerned with the last two points, perhaps you can order a camera from Amazon or Ring for the interior of your living space.

I was going to reply, but every thought I had was already here.

Exposing your child and others to diseases that we've had a handle on for half a century or more should carry its own legal liability, but such is the world in which we live.

How is the house titled?  Is she on the title?

I got told I'd receive a decent pay-raise when I raised a huge stink after being denied raises for two years in a row for the dumbest bullshit ever (the manager in charge of approving raises was notorious for finding any excuse he could to deny raises).  
Imagine my surprise (not!) when I found that I had recieved barely a quarter of the promised amount as a raise, which ended up being only $0.05 more than the raise I'd recieved 3 years prior (which was itself a shitty raise). Not a word was said to me until I questioned it, at which point I was told that I'd receive the rest as my pay raise the next year.    
I have no idea if they actually planned to, because I quit a couple months later. The worst part is, that issue was actually low on the list of grievances that I had with my employer. Things like other employees stealing my expensive tools that I was required to have on-site, plus basically doing the manager's job for 2 consecutive incompetent managers, then being overlooked for the manager position only because they "didn't think the rest of the employees would respect you."  
Joke's on them though. When I left, 3/4 of the rest of the crew  and the newest "highly promising" manager all quit within 3 weeks. They had to pull together a skeleton crew from several nearby locations until they could hire and train enough new people. Last I heard, they were still struggling to operate as well and as smoothly as when I was there.   
  
OP, make sure all of your communication with HR and managers regarding this issue happens via email. Forward copies of it to your private email or print them off. Keep that and your offer letter in a secure location.  
Tell HR they have 30 days to rectify your payrate and give you your backdated wages or you will file a wage claim.    
Find an employment lawyer and consult with them for any further actions.

Pharmacist here-

Yep :)

He has the bill of sale and adopted them, so they're his cats. Pets are essentailly treated as property in the legal system- you don't acquire ownership by paying their expenses over time.

Nobody is the same person at 16 as they are at 28. Eat shit

Mass tort lawyers screening process.

Because she’s on the deed from the marriage.

I'm more so asking if there's any pursuit for patients that took the generic form, since it's the same formula.

I heard some people mentioning innovator liability.

Not a lawyer but i wonder if proof of recent therapy even be a positive in that it shows long term committment to raising child in a healthy environment and to not pass along the problem along to next generation.

Therapist here, this likely varies state to state but everywhere that I’ve practiced to date has regulations regarding preservation of records. In fact, most places have separate laws/standards governing adult records vs. minor records. In the case of adult records, typically these are to be destroyed after 7 years as the information is considered out-of-date. This is done in part to avoid situations like the one you’re describing. The equivalent laws/standards for minors tend to have more variability, but ultimately are some version of records are destroyed at age 18 or some period after last point of contact (eg, 3 years). 

I won’t comment on what others have regarding how the records were obtained and who introduced them into the legal proceedings, but purely on the mental health side of things I’m floored that these records are even available TO BE part of litigation.

To be honest I was freshly 18 and they were using my record against my mom so her lawyer handled everything.

Yea sure it could, each state has their own rules of evidence, though I do think most draw from the federal rules. Coincidentally I did look at the Texas Rules of Evidence not that long ago while in an argument on Facebook lol and they did in fact have an additional enumerated hearsay exception than my state and the federal rules though I don’t remember what was different exactly. 

I was thinking about it more and I think the best way to say it is I’ve never seen a letter like that introduced into evidence over objection. Both sides could agree to it being introduced is one way it could get in. Or the opposing counsel could just not object. Knowledge of the rules of evidence is not equal across all lawyers and domestic relations lawyer in my experience often seem to not give it its proper due.

Is there any chance your parents had these records and are intentionally or unintentionally assisting your  ex?

NAL..but sounds like a huge HIPAA violation. 

If it was me EVERYBODY better lawyer up because that ain't right.

I Hope the best for your kids.

Their little green eyes only show up if you get a direct reflection. We call it spider sniffing where we put the led headlamp right between our eyes to get the reflection of their little green eyes.

Some estates can be wrapped up quickly (a few months to a year) but it's not at all uncommon for it to take a few or several years if there are issues.  (Such as tax problems, heirs that can't be found, assets that are hard to liquidate, etc.)  Nothing here sounds unusual on its face.

I would expect them to provide you an accounting and a release to sign before they close the estate and give you your final distribution, so you'll be able to see what the full estate consisted of and where all the money went.  If not, you can ask for an accounting.

Sounds like she made the right call

Or hey you could get your daughter vaccinated and not let her suffer because your views.

You can't sell the house because you don't own the house -- it's currently owned by the estate and any disposition of the home must happen through probate before anything else can happen.

It also doesn't matter who's paying the bills, etc -- intestacy laws are specific in how the estate is distributed, and are binding in this situation.

This is a perfectly legal and righteous reason for terminating your employment. That she didn't catch the issue sooner doesn't help you or change those facts.

You can refuse to write a resignation letter.

Is your mom helping you with college?

Bingo. He is stealing from her. No doubt.

You were an adult… why didn‘t you sue them?

That makes sense, thank you for the clarification. I'll start looking! Hopefully it goes well.

It looks like the intestacy laws in VA favor non-shared children. 1/3 goes to the surviving spouse (assuming they were still married when he died), 2/3 goes to the children from a prior marriage.  How that plays out with the house depends on how the estate is divided, of course -- which will only happen once the will is probated.

The "someone sent you into a panic for nothing" part is worth sitting with, because that's exactly what happened. HR flagged something, nobody with actual licensing authority looked at it, and the word "voluntarily surrender" got passed down the chain like it was a reasonable ask.

The distinction between what your employer wants and what the board has actually said matters a lot here. Your employer has no mechanism to revoke your license. They can make your work life uncomfortable, but that's a different problem than a licensing threat, and conflating the two is how people end up making decisions that hurt them.

If I had a dollar for every time someone has pointlessly down voted one of my replies I certainly wouldn't be on here asking about how to fix our financial issues.

I wouldn’t worry about legality as much as truth. You may not be the right person to have custody based on your behavior. Sixteen year olds are not infants and that part of you is still there, possibly shoved down but it’s there. Seek help.

FWIW, several of these are practically word-for-word matches for the examples given in the yearly anti-harassment training I just completed.

His legal source is AI and unsurprisingly, is wrong. Unless him saying negative things about you to his buddy is somehow causing you harm, it’s best to just ignore that aspect of it. Legally compelling him to “correct the record” would be arduous and likely pointless. Your mom is unlikely to be successfully sued for reaching out to her husband’s friend.

It’s interesting you say that because there are some quite large pieces of glass and I wondered how something like that could happen. Sometimes around the size of my hand. Those are easiest to find but also the most concerning to me because I feel like I’ve looked at the area before and possibly new ones are popping up. Or I’m losing it

Do not voluntarily surrender anything. That is the most important thing here, and it needs to be said clearly before anything else.

Voluntary surrender sounds administrative and temporary but it functions as an admission and can follow you in ways that a reviewed-and-cleared disclosure never would. Your employer cannot revoke your license. Only the board can do that, and the board already looked at this exact conviction, during your initial application, and issued your license anyway. That decision doesn't get undone because a compliance team at a merged hospital system got nervous.

What's actually happening here is that HR flagged something, passed it up the chain, and your supervisor is now relaying pressure that probably came with very little legal analysis behind it. "Voluntarily surrender while we review" is the kind of language that benefits your employer, not you.

Get a licensing defense attorney before you respond to anything in writing. Washington has attorneys who specifically handle healthcare licensing board matters and this situation is well within what they deal with regularly. One consultation will tell you exactly where you stand.

You don't need to write a resignation letter. They can fire you. 

It's too bad that your boss didn't read your paperwork before allowing your daughter to attend and put the other kids at risk. 

Not looking for any opinions about vaccinations.

Most people don't like being told that their bad ideas are bad.

It's certainly possible they will continue reporting you if you violate the codes. It's unfortunate and probably "unfair", but there's nothing they're doing that's really "wrong" here even if it's annoying and nitpicky.

The fact that you believe it's your neighbors submitting these violations with pictures as opposed to the city itself just singling you out for punishment means the city is in the clear legally as well.

Overall, document, document, document. You're doing the right thing with photos, etc already. The good thing about a hearing is that you'll actually get to talk to some humans who usually have discretion on these sort of things. If you're able to show them that there wasn't intent, that you have cleaned up the code violations once notified, and that you are committed to making sure code violations aren't happening in the future, it's at least possible that they might reduce or rescind some or all of the violations. There's no guarantee on that, but it's important to build that case for yourself to at least make that a possibility.

Depending on the size of your city/town, it may also be worth asking the department in charge of these codes how you might properly go about your projects without violating the codes. Most cities aren't in the business of just handing code violations out for fun. They do so when their hands are forced by people like your neighbors. If you can be proactive and say "this is what I'm doing, I want to do it the right way within code" you're likely to find some people willing to assist you in figuring out how to do it.

Do. Not. Call. The. Police.

This seems like a reasonable approach

If you have a lawyer why is your lawyer not handling this?

Even if you are comfortable sharing finances and having joint accounts with this person, he should never be logging in with your credentials to the account (which makes it look like you initiated any activity performed during the session). Joint account holders still have separate logins and the bank can track which person made the transfer. If he's logging in as YOU, that's another huge red flag (amongst the many in your story).

She shouldn't be able to do it without you being a party to the petition.

Solid. I'm happy to do whatever is necessary to appease them. I'd be really stoked if they let me stay the remainder of this season as I've already planted, but I'd do whatever to make sure no one is upset. My intention was absolutely never to step on toes, it was my first home purchase and I realized a lot of things a little too late 😅 lessons have been learned, I'll survey any future property.

I’m getting the max 😊

Where you are working -- blue collar fields -- is full of guys who *mentally, emotionally* do not fit with white collar fields. Not all of them, but a lot. They talk like this all the time. The stuff that's said between blue collar guys of different races would shock you, and definitely goes over the line into actionable "discriminatory" environment, but unless one dude is actually firing or physically harming another b/c of racial dynamics, they just deal with it.

To be completely honest, probably the reason why they are scared shitless of you is because, as a woman, they probably worry that you're likely to report and try to ruin their lives for stuff that even the most objectively heinous racist statements wouldn't even if they were directed at at a person of that target race. 

Legally speaking, you'll have very little chance at internal reporting being successful -- you'd have to sue. But do you really want to be that person who is the most sensitive in the company's history, and makes them regret ever hiring a woman and never do it again?

What's the probate status of his estate? Were they married when he died? Did he have other children?

The estate/probate needs to be dealt with above all else. If your father died intestate in Virginia, ownership of the house passed according to those succession laws, it's not based on who pays bills or who has lived there the longest. She may have inherited part of all of the estate.

The estate needs to have an administrator/representative appointed to have authority to sell the house. I would talk to a probate attorney so you can figure out who inherited what and finish probate- only then can you potentially sell.

Ok thank you. I plan on going to a magistrate court and filing today because I didnt leave that house in disrepair like they are claiming. I've just never had this happen as a renter. I like to consider myself a good renter but I have anxiety so the moment I thought something was fishy my head immediately second guessed myself. Thanks again for the advice!

I don't know anything about the actual law here, but it sure sounds like it shouldn't be legal. The first thing I'd be doing is calling that old therapist and see what they have to say about how someone came by those records. Did you have any copies that your ex could have found? It seems like it should be disallowed by the judge either way. And also, impress to your lawyer how concerned you are, and you want her to follow up on this to the fullest extent.

First, toxic black mold is rare. There are plenty of forms of mold and mildew that present themselves a black in nature that isn't toxic and only require basic cleaning to eliminate them. This is especially true for things like bathrooms, window sills, and AC vents. 

Second, ants and gnats are things that even highly pest controlled buildings are still going to have issues with. They're incredibly tiny bugs that can come into the tiniest cracks. Ant and gnat bait traps work wonders. They're super cheap to buy and/or make. 

Third, It's not really clear from your narrative what this security officer was doing interacting with you and colleagues, but my full name, workplace, school, and housing affiliation is not protected information from which security couldn't give to a co-worker or anyone really. Next, campus security likely has access to basic information about students which would likely include a picture of you. That's likely how they identified you so quickly.

What’s stopping someone with a master key from entering my room and going through my belongings?

Nothing. But that in and of itself doesn't make having keys to your room illegal. There's likely dozens of campus staff that have access to your room. Just because they can't doesn't mean they will. If you're uncomfortable with that, on-campus housing may not be for you. 

What’s stopping them from putting something in my room without my knowledge?

See my answer to your question above.

Your legal team  should have been told beforehand so your lawyer has a chance to object as over reaching.

They requested all my medical records for last 5 years in a work lawsuit, including therapy. Just made them look worse however.

This doesn’t have to do with OP’s situation, but I’m just curious about your comment.

Could this vary by location?

The only experience I have is in one county in Texas. My initial divorce was very messy and there were several subsequent modifications regarding our kids that were just about as equally messy.

Very creative, but are you a licensed electrician and also a lawyer?  

There is in fact a distinct possibility that there is in fact no danger to safety, and that the justification is reckless and uninformed. A professional electrician informed OP of the fact of the wiring, but did not illuminate a safety concern. Nice try, but you are trying to retrofit a good reason into a circumstance where it doesn't belong.

Furthermore, given the context of the thread and the suggestion to hold the laundry facilities of other tenants hostage in furtherance of OP's financial dispute, it could easily be seen for the pretext that it is.

Again, while preparing for a battle that depends entirely on balance of probabilities and credibility, the last thing OP needs to do is to undermine their credibility with obvious pretext.

A lot of folks are busy trying to find ways to justify shutting off the electricity to the laundry facilities as a way to solve this problem. That's not the *legal* way.  The legal way is to make a complaint with the regulatory authority, to put the landlord on notice, to demand compensation, and then wait.   if the problem is still not fixed and compensation is not forthcoming, sue the landlord.

Shutting off the electricity to make a nuisance for other tenants in the hopes of getting torches and pitchforks involved is NOT going to improve OP's future position in court, and may damage it.

I'm not sure I understand how you've held a license for six years, were convicted of a DUI four and a half years ago, and yet somehow disclosed your DUI on your license application. The timeline may matter.

However, your employer is not the issuing authority. They can't revoke your license. The state department of health can, and if they receive a complaint about your conduct or qualificiations they will investigate. However, if the substance of the complaint is a conviction that you already disclosed and they already reviewed, and if there's nothing else that would suggest your license should be revoked, then in general you can expect nothing to come of it.

Your employer can _ask_ you to surrender your license, but you don't have to comply. However, your employer may also be able to consider your DUI when deciding whether to continue employing you, especially if your job regularly brings you into contact with kids or vulnerable addults.

Could I sell the house? What would I have to do to sell the house?

You need to work through the probate process.  At this point, due to the contention between you and your father's widow, and the length of time that has passed, I recommend you hire a probate attorney to assist.

Should be able to, but if they won't you file what is called a Replevin action.  If worth less than $6,500, you file in small claims, cost $95 plus service.  Would be billed to other side if you win, but then you need to collect it on them.  Just need to figure out if it is worth it to you to do all that.

Thanks, I really wanted to avoid involving other neighbors but I'll keep that in mind.

My argument is that I am more than willing to support my son, I just don't want that money going to my ex as I know she needs/uses it for personal finances not directly for the care of my son. I know that's a loaded argument that is heard a lot with support, but as he is 18 my hope would be that if some kind of financial support is deemed necessary it goes in an account that is accessible to him, not his mother (and, an idea I had, his brother D would help him manage this support as an unbiased third party)

going to HR might be smart move actually - you already have pattern documented and waiting for escalation could make situation worse in your position

Right, but that’s not a legal issue. If you’re not required by law or covenant to have a fence then you don’t have to, but you still have to maintain your property up to code.

You were also a minor. Did you ask your parents if they know anything about this?

Sorry, didn't really end my post on an actual question. With the threat of neighbors suing and an upcoming hearing is this something I need to worry about long term? I've taken pictures of my backyard with the pavers removed, no fence debris, no overgrown weeds, etc. I'm no longer violating any codes but I'm concerned this will be ongoing and I can't even continue outdoor projects I had planned for the summer without fear of another violation in the mail.

If you let your therapist make a statement, opposing counsel can request ALL of your records from your therapist. This whole thing could be a trap to get the current records because those will actually matter in the case.

Good call
The other way is a sympathetic friend, who happens to have access to the therapy files.

The eviction is going to have to come from the homeowner, you do not really have any standing there. If you do not think your mother can take care of herself and is a danger to herself and others you can reach out to social services and something at least temporary may come of it, but if your grandparents are willing to support her there might not be anything to do.

In NH this is a criminal offense of theft:   
New Hampshire Revised Statutes  
Title LXII - Criminal Code  
Chapter 637 - Theft  
Section 637:3 - Theft by Unauthorized Taking or Transfer

You received your license because a single DUI (provided you completed the terms of your conviction) isn't enough on its own to keep you from becoming licensed. And the board isn't going to revisit something they already looked at. Someone sent you into a panic for nothing.

I remember a very similar situation like this on Reddit before and it turned out it was bedbugs

When you say were submitted, was this in court with an opportunity to object or was this something was just sent to the court?  Those records can’t just self authenticate, even if they are business records. Someone will have to testify as to foundation.  
I am a lawyer, but not your lawyer and I handle privacy issues, HIPAA issues, and ADA issues for a rather large state agency. Those records should be damn hard for anyone to get a hold of let alone opposing counsel.

If the invoice is truly remodel work rather than tied to damage you caused, then no- you shouldn't owe for that. They can't charge you for renovations and capital improvements or replacing worn out items. 

Start documenting everything, and I would send a formal response (with your pictures and the walkthrough details) disputing the charges. Request an itemized statement for any damage they're claiming and state they cannot charge for remodel/renovation costs that do not appear to be related to damage, and you are reserving your right to have your security deposit returned. See what they say. If they can't substantiate any damage charges, you could take this to small claims for the return of your deposit.

Going through the lawyer will mean it is done properly though it will cost more. The notes on the sessions can be introduced if properly authenticated but I’ve never seen a letter like that make it into evidence. It’s just simply hearsay subject to no exceptions. If they are going to introduce old psych records this is subpoena your therapist and pay her what’s it required to get her to testify territory.

Absolutely agree and plan on getting a lawyer ASAP. Just looking for some community info as well.

You obviously were never told of the “permanent record”.  🤣

They wont just take it back, I mean, they will, and most likely they will send it to auction and you will still be on the hook for any amount left over.

Try carvana, car max, private, but end of the day you are most likely going to need funds to complete the remaining balance.

Not to my knowledge, would she be able to do that without my approval?

It sounds like multiple laws may have been violated here. It sounds like you need a serious sit-down with your lawyer and possibly another lawyer

Around 2018, I needed to get my first communion records from 1989. I prepared myself for a huge uphill battle. I called my childhood church, gave my name, and they told me it would be in the mail. Less than a 5 minute phone call.

Of course as a kid you don't know any better, but this is exactly why you should never ever EVER tell everything to a therapist. They are legally required to keep records and will have you arrested if you say the wrong things. Anything you say to them should first be filtered by asking yourself how this would look in court.

If they got it without a subpoena then the therapist or doctor can get in a lot of trouble with regulators and this is a pretty big disclosure. It depends on what type of therapist or doctor they are and who is covered under HIPAA. 

If you signed a blanket disclosure of your own medical records or they were subpoenaed then these would not necessarily be admissible. They may also be in trouble with their associated regulatory body because this type of disclosure is antithetical to a therapeutic relationship. 

If the individual who treated you made the disclosure and this is allowed, then they potentially opened the door for a deposition or questioning by your lawyer. This is usually unpaid.

They may not have been as alarmed as you feel not because the situation isn’t alarming but because the remedy for it is a standard thing for them to navigate and they aren’t stressing over it.

That isn’t to say that you shouldn’t feel stressed or alarmed over it, but that if it is a common or easy thing for them, they won’t see it the same.

I would reach out for clarification - tell your legal team you are worried and are just looking for reassurance. I wouldn’t necessarily communicate just about this, depending on how your legal office bills because some bill for every bit of communication back and forth. Wait until you are already communicating about something and bring this up so you can get the reassurance that you need.

Yeah, ask them about the process to roll it over into an IRA.

This is “family law” in a nutshell. There’s prob 10% or less who actually care. Another 10% that are just cut throat sharks charging crazy money to win at all cost. And the rest just hold people over a barrel during a difficult, often unavoidable time in peoples lives.

Did you have the records in your possession at any point when you were still married?  Parents have a copy? -NAL

It will look bad if you do report it, too. 

The crime is the crime, whether you report it or not. You have no duty to report it, and you have a constitutional right not to.

Then what's your legal question?

I want my mother removed from their property and committed to a mental hospital for incompetency and evaluation. I want the partner and pets evicted.

Them reporting you is them targeting you. I think that's pretty clear. But there's no legal issues with them reporting you for what appear to be actual violations just because it's targeted.

Where to go from here is be up to code so they can't report you.

You talk about other houses in the neighborhood with issues. You are allowed to report others if you find that they aren't up to code. If the enforcement from the city is not consistent, then you may have something that at least approaches a legal issue, but you're a long way from that right now.

Instead of going through the district, I'm wondering if you / your parents / someone else had copies of these notes and your ex obtained them by snooping through your stuff.

It's concerning, and certainly a red flag, but no - we don't have nearly enough information to determine there's no damage.

And on top of that police won't do anything as it happened in a parking lot. I had someone door ding me and was told it was a civil matter and not vandalism.

His attorney should still move to strike those notes from the record. First, because they were obviously improperly obtained and, second, because the developmental concerns of a teenager are not relevant to an adult thirteen years later.

Yeah  that's why I sent a demand letter, to try to get it resolved quickly on my own.

It looks like mediation in my area will still cost at least $100/hr, so yeah, it's something to think about whether it's worth pursuing any further. 

Thank you for your help!

Most social media services operating in Canada rely on either innocent dissemination as a defence, which can be quite strong as long as the service meets certain obligations on becoming aware of defamatory messages, or on being treated as a telecommunications common carrier, or on both, backstopped by business liability insurance and competent legal advice.

Talk to a lawyer! You're in the same position as anyone else starting up a social media product would be, and there's no problem at all with being honest that you're looking for advice on your risks around defamatory content. A lawyer isn't going to expect you to know what you need to know - that's their job. While you're at it, talk to them about your obligations regarding criminal content, ranging from simple harassment all the way up to CSAM, and about your obligations regarding data privacy and removal.

Also, your current therapist being willing to testify about your present mental health could carry a lot of weight.

But this may also introduce material during cross that may not be beneficial to OP's case.

The advocate is right - that's standard procedure. After you file, they serve him notice and he gets to respond at a hearing where the judge decides whether to make it permanent. You can absolutely bring additional evidence and a more detailed narrative to that hearing, even if it wasn't in your original temp order paperwork. Don't let his past manipulation make you think you're going to mess this up - you've got this far already and the attorney thinks you're in good shape.

Have either of you applied and been appointed to be guardian over J? If not, your ex has no say in what jobs he takes or does not take. If neither of you are his guardian, that makes her argument a lot weaker. You should consult with an attorney in your area about this.

they literally titled it "remodel" which is wild - that alone shows they know it's not actual damage repair

All I know is that the landlord provided a written notice to my friend’s family saying his family had until July 5th to move out. My friend also did mention that it’s the only thing connecting the landlord to the United States and that’s the reason the landlord is selling, but do take that with a grain of salt since it’s coming from the tenant living there.

Step one is never, ever debate about gender roles, religion, and beliefs in the workplace.  Especially with your boss.  As for your questions.  No, you aren't overthinking this.  No, this isn't acceptable industry culture or blurred boundaries.  Yes, I would document with HR immediately.  Especially knowing it's possible or even likely he has already started the process himself.  As for the position it really depends on the company.  For a smaller-midsize company I would probably start updating my resume.  For a larger company it's possible you could get moved to another boss or if it was bad enough get him replaced.  Nothing he did, as you described it, is acceptable behavior from a work supervisor (or another worker in general to be honest).

Your divorce lawyer may not be knowledgeable about federal and state laws protecting educational and medical records. You may have a civil lawsuit against the school district if they unlawfully disclosed your records. It’s possible your ex forged your signature on a release form. Who knows. In any event, if your divorce lawyer ain’t going to pursue this, maybe another lawyer would. In any event, you need to act quickly to find out what happened and make a claim. If your current lawyer isn’t going to get opposing counsel or the school district on the record as to how they obtained these records, I wouldn’t have a lot of confidence in their ability to represent you.

You're not overthinking it dude. People argue yea but It's the repeated gender based comments from your supervisor and the fact that he's your boss that makes it well beyond normal workplace banter.

Personally, I'd keep documenting everything and save any messages or emails. Unless the behavior escalates or starts affecting your job directly, I'd be cautious about going to HR immediately, especially since you're new. But you're absolutely right to trust your instincts here.

You learned a big lesson about your family today 😄

I’m just worried if it eventually does get to the police itll look really bad if i didnt report

Because the defendant in the existing lawsuit isn't the party that harmed you. You are free to consult with an attorney and discuss potential action against the manufacturer of the drug you took.

Generally lawsuits about harassment at work stem from you reporting it and then company not taking action to correct it. Yes his conduct was completely inappropriate, you can report it to HR. It’s your decision if you want to do that. 

Personally I’d report it. That was way over the line.

How did they even subpoena those? Do you have the same therapist?

Your therapy records belong to YOU! The therapist, practice it in this case school are custodians.

Why would you turn yourself in for a crime that is apparently not even being investigated? What possible upside are you imagining?

Report this to the police.  

Depending on how that goes, sue him in small claims court for the value of the tools.

Do you mean the clinical notes for therapy sessions?

I didn’t mention above, but it is worth pointing out, that anything brought as evidence of your current status will be fair game to both sides.

If there is information in the clinical notes that you don’t want the ex to know, you will need to work with your legal team and therapist on the best way to navigate that.

The way I did it to save the most amount of money was this:
- I requested clinical notes and a letter from my therapist (I lucked out and she did the for free, some therapists bill for the time spent putting this kind of stuff together)

- I gave everything to my lawyer’s office and they went through it to see if there was anything that shouldn’t be made available to the other side. (This generated billable hours)

- The information was formally submitted as evidence by my legal team

Lawyer is afraid to 'stir up trouble' with opposing lawyer.  Worried more about their own professional future than the client.  Basically a piece of shit ignoring code of ethics.

Ok I gotchu. I moved out april 24th and they send me a bill may 18th with nothing on it just that I owe 4,000$ for damages. When I asked for an itemized bill they accidentally sent me a bill titled remodel and everything on the bill was definitely for a remodel, it was stuff like replacing tubs, fauets, flooring, etc all stuff i know didnt need replaced. I didnt do a walk through with them but I took my own photos (no vid) when I left. (I also did a before walk through with someone at evernest before I fully moved out because I knew I wouldn't be able to do so when we were moving and he said everything was fine. And i hired a moving company no damages were left i swear.)

For sure, I get that. The brick pavers were unloaded in my backyard and the project was finished the next day. I was trying to emphasize that it seems like they are looking for any excuse to keep this ongoing until the fence is back up.

Exactly. FERPA protects student records just like HIPAA protects medical records.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. **Do not make a second post.** Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

**Get rid of every single asterik.  They are not helpful. Do not replace with bold or underline either.  And make this significantly shorter in addition to getting rid of the PII.**

**Difficult to Read**

Your comment has been removed as it is difficult to read.  It is either far too long, incoherent, or it has been improperly formatted for use on Reddit.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to be more concise and readable.  This includes the  proper use of Reddit markup tags, paragraphs and sentences, as well as proper spelling and coherent thoughts.  **Do not make a second post.**  Please review the following rules before participating further:

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Are you asking why you can't sue the company that wasn't the manufacturer of the product you took? That's akin to asking why you can't sue Ford for a problem with your Chevy.

The only right answer is to get a lawyer.

Any judge will be hesitant to take away support from a disabled child, so if you think your child is fully capable enough to not warrant support, you'll need to prove that. This is not DIY territory.

Thank you.

Do you have an idea of what might constitute proof? I brought it to the dealer to address a problem, then after a relatively short period of time another problem emerged that was both in the exact area that was worked on and could only have been due to negligence. 

I have both receipts saying the area that was worked on, and the part being found not to be torqued to specifications should be proof enough, but the other commenter seems to think that will not be sufficient. Should I ask the second shop for a statement? Should I bring excerpts from the owner's manual? What would be enough to be considered proof?

Is the landlord legally evicting them or is he/she ending their lease?  If they are month to month and he/she wants to sell the house, that’s perfectly normal. Not everyone wants to be a landlord. Selling a house with a tenant in it narrows the pool of buyers because not everyone wants to be a landlord and it’s never advisable to buy an occupied property to live in. 

If your friends are being legally evicted, through the courts, they need to do whatever it takes to avoid the situation. It will be nearly impossible to find someone that will rent to them.

You may be alarmed how they got it he is probably not alarmed because how they got it isnt relevant to his case and old information about a teenager also isn't relevant to his case so he likely doesnt care about it. He cares about the family law side of things not the possible medical malpractice side.

Don't let your lawyer off the hook from doing her job. Press her to get answers as not only does it effect your case, but could be grounds for others to take legal action.

I would consider talking to another attorney about suing the school bc I don't think they followed the correct process....

If JH has your account and demographic information, then they should have everything they need to have you login at johnhancock.com or whatever their site is. They shouldn't need HR for anything at this point.

Either way, you can simply call JH and ask them to roll the 401k to an IRA at whatever firm you want. Or to your new employer's 401k.

How are you finding out you are not eligible?

Yes.  You can sue.  If you did not damage the property then you are entitled to your deposit back.  So if they withheld your deposit improperly?  That is a basis to sue them to recover the money they owe you

And if you can show the landlord acted in "bad faith" you can get "treble damages" (3x the amount wrongfully withheld)

Not even strict limits like where an adult cannot withdraw - I just want peace of mind that in case of a dispute I can recover the funds that belong to my business. The reason I went to this subreddit is because I've read that banks do not enforce privately signed contracts regarding these kinds of things.

Sue for what, have you already paid the bill?

Can you add more information here- when did you move out, did they send you an itemized statement within 30 days of your move out and did it say what you damaged? Did you do a walkthrough and take photos/video of the condition when you moved out?

Sometimes lawyers will take the case on if you agree to let them get a cut of what the court awards you. Then let the lawyers decide the amount to fight for.

They didn't say the attorney was flustered, just slightly surprised. In another comment they said the attorney didn't seemed worried afterwards.

I would also make a bar complaint against the opposing lawyer if f they obtained the records illegally.

Yes. That's how the agency I work at is.. we have shred parties for when the clock rolls around.

If you’re violating city code then you can be cited/fined/ summoned over it. It’s not illegal for your neighbors to report code violations.

Storage is a huge issue in most schools. Mine has filing cabinets labeled with the year the records they contain can be destroyed, and the second the clock rolls to the right date those files are in the shredder because the cabinet is needed for the next batch of files.

Nope. Accountant so still math heavy 🤣

The good news is the cost to file a small claims action is pretty low. Go to court, fill out the paperwork, take a day off from work and make your case. You might get your money back for the second appointment.

The bad news is you have an uphill battle - you have to show proof that it was them that caused it, and nothing that occurred during the last 3 months. You will testify that you didn’t mess with the plugs during the last 3 months. They will probably testify they have expert mechanics trained in what they do and they would have tightened them to specification.

It’s up to the judge to determine which side to believe.

From what it sounded like when I called, I don’t think they’re able to do anything with my account being incomplete, but I will call again and ask about this

Be careful giving that kind of information to a combative ex.

Why not just sell thr home outright from under her? Home sales take a good couple of months. Seems to me that you sell the house, tell her closing day is on this day and wash your hands of it?

Call the police, report the items stolen.

Bout it.

My comment was based on Washington administrative code that states that behavioral health agencies only have to retain records for six years or until the 21st birthday, whichever is longer. I am aware that agencies can hold for longer if they choose but seems like storage would've been an issue before EHRs came about.

In the US, those records belong to *YOU*, the school or therapist merely has custody of them.  That’s why doctors cannot deny you those records when you ask for them.

Then do like the first person suggested and move it out of that company.

You're not talking to the right person. I believe they are required by law to assist regarding 401ks.  Cc the owner and say something like, "I don't want to involve an attorney over this trivial matter..." .  Use AI to research the law in your state.  Good luck.

I would see a judge about getting the old records sealed if possible. That is not acceptable.

Judges don’t give a shit about this nonsense. A judge wants to make a parenting plan for the future, not talk about therapy sessions from 13 years ago.

So, is she a math teacher?

Yep...that is the problem with "litigation". It costs a LOT of money to hire an attorney to fight your fights.  In some cases, it makes no sense. What you are describing? If the case is worth less than $3K?  You could burn through that real quick, even in arbitration. 

Start with mediation on your own...then you can decide if it makes sense to hire a lawyer for arbitration

Very familiar story. I was in an efficiency studio apt and my electricity bill was insane, but since it was my first place on my own I had no frame of reference. In my frustration, I flipped my breaker as I left for work. When I came home, my breaker was back on and note from management said my apt was too unkept and warned me about what appeared to be a cat hairball on the carpet. I was furious with the note and why had they come in and flipped my breaker? So I flipped it off again and went outside as it was now nighttime. I quickly noticed the pool lights, pool “hum,” and Coke vending machine were on my power! I called the electric company who sent a representative to investigate and confirmed my findings. I went to the apt office with my findings and their first response was anger and threatening me with eviction because I’m to use THEM for any electrical or plumbing questions or concerns. I was livid, but calmly reminded them my lease was up in 3 months—and they were comping the rest of my contract. Or else we could make this a thing. Manager angrily said she would discuss with the property company.   
  
I got word the next day, “okay.”

Let's assume your father in law passes away before 2040. His assets would be distributed, in full, in the months after his death:

* To his creditors. Your father's debts must be paid before his assets can be distributed to any heirs. If he dies in debt then what he wants people to do in return for his money is moot because there is no money to claim.

* To designated beneficiaries. Money and assets set up with joint ownership, or in accounts and investments with named beneficiaries, will transfer to those beneficiaries directly. Your father-in-law's wishes as set out in his will or in other testamentary documents would not matter. This includes things like insurance, retirement accounts, jointly-owned real estate set up with rights of survivorship, and a few other things.

* As per his will. His will can set conditions on bequests. "To my grandson, if he watches my video statement," is a valid bequest. It would be the executor's responsibility to administer the bequest, by providing your son with the video to watch and confirming that he did so before disbursing his share of the estate. If your son did not watch it, then that share would either be rolled into the residue of the estate and distributed to its residual beneficiaries, or given to someone else, depending on how the bequest is set up. Alternately, your son or his representative can challenge the condition, which I'll come back to.

* Into a trust. A trust is a separate legal entity, operated by a trustee, to own assets and hold money on someone else's behalf temporarily. The trust must eventually close, transferring its assets unconditionally to _someone_, but a trust can be set up with a conditional beneficiary who stands to take those assets if they meet some condition. A trust to hold money for your son until 2040 and then distribute it to him if he watches a specific video isn't obviously invalid, but it would have to make arrangements for who gets the money if your son dies, or if he refuses to watch the video. Trusts also generally cost money to operate; professional trustees charge an annual percentage of the trust, and even a bank account held in trust but supervised by a family friend will still accrue account fees that must be paid. A trust expected to last until 2040 would need to be funded to pay those fees, or it'll disappear into its own expenses.

It sounds like your father-in-law wants to set up a trust, which is the standard way to make an estate plan if you want assets to be distributed at a later date rather than immediately on your death. The proposed condition that your sons watch a specific video in order to be eligible to receive his trust is petty and stupid, but it's not immediately obvious to me that it's unduly coercive, contrary to public policy, or amounts to an illegal attempt to control their affairs from beyond the grave.

Equally, it is possible that, when the time comes, the trustee will have no interest in policing your sons' viewings, and will take them at their word if they are willing to affirm that they did watch the video, without checking. Lying would be fraud, for fairly obvious reasons, but it would be fraud of a kind that is hard to spot and irrelevant to anyone likely to be alive at that point.

When he dies, what are our options to claim the estate?

None. Your father-in-law is within his rights to put his assets in trust for your sons, under conditions you don't approve of (and which your sons might ultimately choose to challenge), if he is competent to do so.

co-mingling finances with a boyfriend and giving him access to you personal accounts is insane.  
Period.     
and here you are with suspicions, trust your instincts, something is terribly wrong.       
   Dont ask, remove his access to your personal account(s) 
Today, you dont need his [permission.

you actually cant get help with that here because they remove all posts with actual legal advice

I didn't recieve any notice about a subpoena, that's the thing. And I'm pretty sure the school district didn't contact me either. My ex and I don't exactly have a friendly relationship so I doubt he told me anything voluntarily. I'm going to push my lawyer harder on the motion to exclude - that's actually the first concrete step anyone's suggested that makes sense to me.

Gotcha, so if I want to move forward without an attorney, then sounds like mediation is the next step. It's a small amount of money at stake (less than $3000), so I don't really want to spend it all on attorney's fees if I don't have to.

I think you’d be amazed at what records are kept. When I was in high school in the early 2000s I mentioned to a guidance counselor that my mom had gone to said school 7th-9th grade (like 66-69 school years if I remember right) and he asked her name and went and dug her file up. “All As. Perfect attendance two years and then missed two weeks with the flu in 9th grade. Said she wanted to be a math teacher…”

The chain of custody thing is something I hadn't even thought about. My therapist back then worked through the school district so technically those records belong to the district I think? I actually asked my current therapist if she'd be willing to write something or testify and she said yes without hesitating. That felt really good honestly. She's been seeing me for two years, she knows me.

It sounds like the neighbors are being fairly reasonable at the moment, I would do everything I could to stay on their good side. Wait for the results of the survey, and have a conversation with them about what they want done.

If they want the fence or garden moved, move it. The only reason for "legal process" is if they tell you to move it and you say no. Lawyers are expensive for everyone, so they will have just as much interest in working together and coming up with a solution as you do.

Once your kids are 22 they'll have to make the decision on what to do here. They'll be adults at that point so a decision to claim or not to claim the inheritance won't be yours to make. It's also unclear how you intend to hide the source of the money when you aren't the beneficiary of it and won't have access to it.

It sounds less like this was a joint account and more like they created an account for him and then added you as an authorized user tbh. I agree though, humiliating and annoying, I’m sorry you had to go through that.

You don't have any decision to make right now - there's no inheritance problem today or estate to handle. This is a hypothetical inheritance decision that may never even exist.

He can attach conditions to a gift inheritance. Whether those conditions (like watching a video) are enforceable can't be known without knowing what the will/trust says and the circumstances are years from now.

Save the email and forget about it. If, some years from now he dies and has left enough money to your children to matter, you can talk to an estate attorney about the circumstances. Until then you're spending energy on a problem that doesn't exist.

I never said I was going to sue my mother and grandmother?? I am mainly asking if there is any way I can find out if the account existed. Even if I did sue they would be able to pay it and that wouldn’t be ridiculous considering that wasn’t their money to use?

I really can't imagine a scenario where an actual subpoena was issued for such records. At the very least I'd want to see the supporting documentation that accompanied the request.

1. From a safety standpoint I would kill the breaker because there is a possibility that circuit is not sized properly and can cause a fire. Damage to neighbors or a fire that destroys your apt, your choice but see #2 

2. Report it to the Fire Dept, and City Building Inspector. This is not legal nor is it safe.

My lawyer kind of glossed over the acquisition thing when I brought it up, which is what worries me. Like she said "we'll look into it" but didn't seem alarmed? And I'm sitting here thinking - if they got these without a proper subpoena that's a huge deal, right? The relevance argument makes sense to me. I was a normal stressed teenager, not exactly a danger to society lol

It’s a video. They’ll be 22. That’s old enough to not be traumatized by it and apply there adult perspective. 

“Your grandpa said you’d have to watch this video to get the money.  It’s your choice. Just realize he may say some weird stuff in it.”

Unless there’s some secret you’re trying to keep there’s no reason not to let them decide. 

And if you are keeping some secret… well that’s on you.

I actually thought it would be way lower. The bruised tailbone and loss of work would have been ranked more seriously as an economic or emotional loss. People lose their unborn fetus' every day due to normal activities and no one except celebrities and influencers make much of a deal of it. Unless your wife was injured in such a way that she could not conceive again you just get pregnant again.....

Eviction is a legal process to remove someone who is no longer legally allowed to stay somewhere, for example they violated their lease which is the contract that says they can live there. Failure to pay rent is a common reason for eviction.

Another reason, that could apply here, would be that the lease ended and they didn't move out. A month-to-month lease only lasts a month. Each party an option at any point to end that lease, usually with some notice period (60 days is common, I don't know if there is a limit set in Texas law, what the lease says matters as long as it's not violating state law).

Your friend's family absolutely do not want to go through the eviction process. If the contract that says they can live there (lease) has ended, they need to find somewhere else to live. Eviction will make it much harder to rent in the future, because landlords don't want tenants who have been evicted.

In California, minor records are sealed when they become adults. Law enforcement went into my minor record after I turned 18 and my mom sued them and won. Don’t let them do this to you! You worked hard to improve yourself and don’t let anyone take that from you.

We just had a consultation, didn't actually hire him since he charged $250 just to review the lease document and advise us to file a lawsuit. 

The demand letter was for a small amount, comprised of the required extension payment and $2000-ish as compensation for the illegal trespass. 

At this point, the goal is to re-establish the lease and get some recompense for them illegally taking from our property after the contact was terminated.

This was my first thought. Gaslighting and drugging her. He is definitely stealing from her so I wouldn’t be shocked to find it went deeper

If your attorney if flustered and you've come to Reddit to find out what is legal, find a new attorney

I fully agree but it sounds like she’s not in the US - laws/protections may be slight different depending on where she is. But either way, mixing finances with someone you are not married to is not smart and needs to be halted immediately

"We do not require proof of Renters Insurance You will be placed under our Property Damage Liability Waiver. The Monthly Charge is $25.00. The PDLW is not a Renters Insurance." As per our lease. I shouldve mentioned this earlier.

He should stop by and talk to her.

Or before.  Need milk? Give me your bank card, I’ll get it on my way over tomorrow.

The fact that those notes still exist after 13 years is also somewhat wild and perplexing.

What exactly is the question..?

You may want to start looking for another place to live.
Contacting a real estate attorney, or one that specifically deals with landlord tenant issues may also be a good idea.
If the landlord knew this was an issue and let it happen anyway, this has the potential for lawsuit. You should not be paying for common area utilities!

If you happen to be lower income, check into Land of Lincoln legal services. Their website says they deal with housing law. Lincolnlegal.org

Yes. They said they can see my account when they pull up my name, the account just is incomplete on employer end

You should have brought it to the bank.

You may not even need your therapist to testify in person, which some absolutely do not do or, if they do can be expensive.

You can personally ask your therapist for their clinical notes on your sessions and a letter that states their professional stance on your current status or go through a more formal route of asking your lawyer to formally request this information. Going through the lawyer will usually cost because this will generate billable hours.

You're going to spend most of the 12k trying to recover the 12k, and it dosent sound like the 12k exists currently. 

You'd need to get a lawyer to obtain the probate file or will, who would then need to find the files and review and determine if there ever actually was a college fund. If there was, they're then going to trying to find where the fund was and what it's current status is. Let's say there's no fund anymore, it was depleted...there's going to be questions about where it went and who took it and what it was spent on. 

The easiest, and most likely, defense they would have is that they used the fund on expenses for you growing up. Did your family ever run into tough times? Did you have medical expenses or were you involved in sports/arts? Those are all valid reasons they'd have been able to use the fund.

The fact that your brother says it's all gone, is a strong indicator that it's gone and you'd be sueing your grandma for a college fund she dosent have anymore. 

Before you go and get a lawyer, try asking around and getting more information.

It’s class C since it’s under $100 dollars, treated the same as a traffic ticket the officer said.

I’ve been an adjuster for over 20 years not a contrajuster. I suppose the amount of policies in existence vs those having claims made on them may not align. In my experience most policies I come across are not special forms. Also nobody writes ho policy forms they are all versions of them. Many expressly exclude coverages for damages caused by a motor vehicle. Where is that t that people are driving into houses daily?

Has JH verified you have a 401k with an actual balance?

So, what advice do you want? If your grandparents do not want to take any steps to get rid of your mother, what exactly do you want to happen?

It happened literally 10 minutes before this post. 😅

Legal significance aside, that's so gross.

Depending on exactly what section of the Vehicle Code you were charged under, you are looking at something between about $400 and $700 in fines and fees.  Some counties are allowed to charge higher fees. One point. 

You may be able to avoid the point by going to traffic school. You still have to pay the fines and for traffic school, but your insurance company most likely won’t find out and increase your rates. 

To fight it, you would have to show that there was a valid reason. You were pulling over for an emergency vehicle or to avoid a roadway hazard, for instance. Or, prove that the officer didn’t have probable cause to stop you, for example, there’s no way the officer could have seen you cross the lines. “Everybody does it” is not a valid defense.

I think he’s making her paranoid. If she was acting out of character and forgetting stuff why isn’t he concerned and trying to get her to the doctor?

Separate your finances. I don’t think this is you having an issue. If it was wouldn’t your partner be concerned at how often you “forget” things? He acts casual like it’s not a big deal. He’s doing this on purpose. Don’t ever sign anything without thoroughly reading it. Does he have your bank login info? He should be using his own log in. You need to have your own account that he has no access to. If you have shared bills you could transfer money as needed. 

Change all your log in info. Get new cards. And go in person to the bank to ask about this new account. If it’s a joint account they should be able to provide you with all the transactions. If you live together you should probably move out. Something is very wrong here. You’re probably not acting like your normal self because he’s making you believe that something is wrong with you. If my partner was truly this forgetful I would have made a doctors appointment for a full check up to discuss the concerns. You could mention to him you’re getting a full check up to address this and see how he responds.

For having sex, but explicit media would still be child pornography and therefore a crime.

Are you really going to sue your mother and grandmother? And if you do, would they have the money to pay a judgement?

My ex did a lot of the same stuff. He'd shuffle money around using small transfers, pay cards then cash advance, pay loans then borrow again, only ever using small portions of the credit lines. He said he was being "clever" financially and saving us money. He was not. 

I was a fraud investigator at the time, and clearly saw what was up. He admitted to nothing and got upset when confronted. My mistake was letting it go. It continued and got worse with time, and he eventually bought a car with a cash line in my name without my knowledge. I'm still dealing with that now. 

I'll also say that I've seen this many times at my work. Often money siphoned from an account is going to a relative or partner, and the account owner only realizes this after reporting the transfers to the bank and hearing what they have to say. 

Don't let this go.

Go to urgent care and get documentation of injuries. If they're significant and you can prove a result of the accident then you can sue the other person for damages and healthcare costs. Also if you feel your insurance didn't give you fair value for your vehicle, you can dispute that. Your insurance rate shouldn't be effected by you filing against someone. The person who hit your SO is going to be the one footing the bill here.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

If he has a valid will, you don’t have any options to claim the inheritance other than what he has specified.  

So you could either contest the validity of the will or let your sons decide whether they want to follow through with it when they are 22.

It sounds like what they're alleging is that some or all of the videos were taken before she was 18, which would make them child pornography/CSA material.

As long as any and all explicit media of her was take after her 18th birthday you're in the clear, legally. It's fairly easy to prove in court when photos and videos were taken, because your phone/whatever date and time stamps pics and videos.

I was thinking of fighting this in court, as this is the first time I've seen someone pulled over for that.

That is not grounds for being found not guilty of an offense you admit you committed.  

On a daily basis, this freeway has tons of people crossing those double lines. In fact, this morning, 2 people drove past those lines right in front of me and didn't get pulled over. 

Again, not at all relevant.  

Plus, this may be a reach, and I have no way to prove it, but I think the guy was new, as he seemed too eager and energetic to give me a ticket. 

Also not relevant.

Plus, there was another cop car a bit ahead (as one is usually stationed at the expressway), where they drove away as soon as the first cop finished giving me the ticket. 

Not relevant either.

The only thing relevant here is whether you committed the infraction or not.  You admit you committed it, and you don't have a legal defense.  You are free to float any of these things before a judge, but at the end of the day, you'll have taken time out of a day (plan on half a day, AM or PM), and you won't accomplish anything.  The fine won't be any higher, but you will have wasted your time and the court's time.

I typically use the expressway entry lanes (as does everyone else) to bypass the usual traffic and reenter the freeway before it gets closed off by the barrier poles. 

You shouldn't do this.  At a minimum, it's just bad, discourteous driving, and if you hadn't, you wouldn't be in this situation.

You can plead guilty and ask for traffic school if you want to keep this off your DMV record.  You still need to pay the fine and a traffic school fee, and the cost of the class.

You have a theft charge for $5.25?!? What in the dystopian capitalist hell storm is that?!? Is the local prosecutor actually going to prosecute???  Doesn't Texas have a pedophile running for office that should also be in jail?  Good Lord what is this world coming to.

I'm former LEO and I wouldn't self report it. All they would do is document it. Are there cameras in the area? Is it super noticeable? I highly doubt someone would think it was a bullet hall if they saw.

What's weird about this? Month-to-month lease means he can refuse to renew (and has to give 30 days notice). It's easier to sell a property if you don't have tenants living in it (otherwise they get to remain until the lease is up). He wants the money from a home sale, not from renting; that's why he offered for them to buy it. 

Had the same thing happen to me a few years back. Lived in a house for two years, no issues, went to renew an annual lease, owners declined because they wanted to sell. Had to move with my wife 9 months pregnant. Not fun, but totally legal for them to do.

Phone him and explain you're concerned that someone else has access to your bank details as you've noticed payments being made that you haven't authorised and that you're going to speak to the police about it. His reaction will be telling.

Why would you report yourself for a negligent discharge if nobody was hurt and nothing other than your own property was damaged? That sounds...ridiculous.

Do you know where she works? You could make life difficult and/or annoying for her in an effort to get her to come to the table. Find her HR and send professional emails containing the facts of how she has wronged you and what is owed. Send them to her leadership too

If you’re only stating the truth then there’s nothing legally stopping you

You will blow up her custody case if you report this.

Really appreciate you taking the time to respond, thank you. I’m currently speaking with my lawyer and just trying to understand my options as best as I can.

If I were in this position, I would open an IRA with Fidelity and just transfer my 401k into that IRA and be done with John Handonhiscock altogether.

Those two questions really are the whole case in a nutshell. The "how" matters because if there was no valid subpoena, the records might be excludable entirely regardless of what's in them.

The relevance question is almost easier to argue. Anxiety at 16 is not a diagnosis, it's just being a teenager. Courts generally don't treat decade-old school counselor notes as evidence of current parenting ability, especially when there's a current therapist saying the opposite.

Would be curious what the lawyer says when pushed specifically on the acquisition question.

Not legal advice but something from my own experience in a VERY similar situation. 

The account owner is in charge of distributing the funds. Your dad can (and should) request the distribution. I had success with a paper form we mailed in. The elderly individual signed the paper and we mailed it in. This could have also been done over the phone but with health issues I didn’t want my elderly relative stuck on hold for too long. 

The distribution took a bit longer but it did not have to go through the POA. Similar to you the adult relative has mental capacity to make their own financial choices.

Evicted?  Or their tenancy ended at the end of the term?

Landlord can’t end a lease with remaining term unless the lease allows that. 

He doesn’t need a reason to say the tenancy is ending at the end of the term.

I didnt think anyone could touch 529s. It is for education and if the child decides no college, then they receive the money at age 30. Mine could be different bc it's in Michigan.

Sorry if this is not relevant in the US. But in the UK I have been in the same situation and made a claim, ive also worked in the motor insurance industry in the past. Over here the PI claim is usually settled directly by the third party insurer and doesnt affect the rates. When we renew insurance whiplash payouts/values dont tend to come into the equation. Even if we say it did have an impact there is no way it would be more than the payout. I got about £2k i think for the most minor whip lash and that was years ago. Bare in mind at renewal you can shop around and compare insurers. If they see a non fault claim yes it will have an impact, but theyre going to still be competing for youre business and i really dont see a few extra $ recovered from a third party insurer is going to have any baring on those prices considering you are not even claiming from your insurance company. It's not an indemnity payment its a seperate thing altogether, often handled by solicitors outside of the main insurance/motor claim process. Again, im sure Americans will correct me if i'm wrong and please do! But id be reluctant in turning down a potentially significant amount of damaged over what may be unwarranted fear. Of course if you do pursue a claim bare in mind your renewal will probably go up now anywah, so there will be no way to differentiate as to whether any of that increase is related to the injury.

Oregon actually has pretty strong protections for minor therapy records. The key question is whether those records were obtained through a valid subpoena with proper notice, or whether opposing counsel found some other way to get them. If there was no subpoena served to you or your former school district with the right procedures, that's potentially a big deal.

The "difficulty regulating emotions at 16" angle is also a weak argument on their end and a good family law attorney should be able to tear that apart. Courts see this kind of thing and judges generally know the difference between a teenager going through a hard time and an unfit parent.

Your current therapist's professional opinion about your present functioning is way more relevant than decade-old school notes. Get a written statement from them if you haven't already, and ask your lawyer specifically about filing a motion to exclude those records based on how they were obtained.

Since theyre month to month in Texas, the landlord doesn't need a special reason, they just have to give them a proper 30 days notice.

If they're month to month, then yes. Check what the local tenacy laws are, but usually a 30 day written notice is standard

Really appreciate this!!!

First of all, your bank is going to have logs of where every cent goes. Who initiated transfers, at what time, with source and destination accounts. You should be able to see a transaction log in your banking app. They almost certainly will even log the IP of the device that initiated the transfer too, though getting that data might be harder. You should be able to look through them to figure out exactly what's happening. Print them off and use a highlighter or something if that helps. 

I think you really buried the lede though. At the very end of your post you said:

This has started to bleed into my work life too, ive started getting paranoid that ive missed deadlines or signed off on things i havent, and my friends have all said ive been acting really out of character. I havent been sleeping properly either.

So, this isn't just your boyfriend, and it's not just financial transactions. Do you live together? Do you have a carbon monoxide detector in your bedroom? Low-dose CO poisoning can cause memory loss. Have you started taking any new medications around the same time these things started happening? You said you've been having trouble sleeping, maybe the lack of sleep is causing some memory issues. Are you taking Ambien, or another sleep-aid? Those are known to cause sleep-walking (or sleep-acting, as it were), where you do things in the middle of the night and don't remember.

I don't want to say your BF isn't gaslighting you (what you describe does actually sound like gaslighting, which is surprising since 99% of the time people use that word, they are just describing someone lying), but if you are seeing the effects of this outside of things your BF could possibly control, that doesn't make sense. Especially since your friends are saying you're acting strange as well.

The reason doesn’t matter. If they are on a month-to-month lease, the landlord can end it at any time, given they have provided proper notice.

Yea, they are able to care for themselves and are competent. my grandma is a good christian woman and thinks letting her daughter kill her instead of abandon her own child is correct. but in the same breath texts me everyday begging for her to leave. 

my grandfather wants her gone too but respects my grandmothers wishes. he now hates my mother and will never forgive her.

Month-to-month, the landlord just needs to provide 30-days notice. He doesn't need to give a reason or justify the termination of the m-t-m lease.

Not sure why this comment isn't higher.

If the police come asking about it, consider contacting a lawyer. 

I wouldn't self-report this. There's not much that will come out of it, and there's apparently no injuries and minimal damage.  Repair the sill if you can.

Texas has some useful articles that might help you:

The fact that your own lawyer seemed surprised is actually important information. That reaction suggests this might genuinely be a procedural violation, not just something that feels wrong.

A few things worth pushing on: how exactly did opposing counsel obtain those records? School district therapy files have their own chain of custody and there are strict rules about releasing records from minors. If they went around proper channels to get them, that's a separate problem for their side.

Also, your current therapist being willing to testify about your present mental health could carry a lot of weight. A judge knows that a 13 year old's anxiety notes say nothing about who you are as a parent today.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

You can report the situation to Adult Protective Services . They investigate physical, mental, emotional, and financial abuse of elders. They also investigate neglect and self-neglect (someone is not caring for themself). Isolating people from friends & family is a form of abuse. 

 Reports from both you and your sibling will be more compelling. 

Your mother and grandparents will not be told who reported. Reports can be made anonymously, but it’s better if they can contact you for further information. 

I understand why your grandparents do want their child to go to jail, but their health & safety is what is important. APS may be able to find solutions that don’t involve criminal charges.

Thank you, sir! I’m just a little terrified right now. 😅

Bigger payout settlements typically come from long term pain and suffering. Debilitating injuries, loss of income from future work. That’s what a personal injury attorney will fight for. Not to sound insensitive, but your case appears to be the other driver’s insurance making  you whole with hospital bills & funeral costs are paid for.

but i didnt think i was stealing. with how the shoe situation happened i thought the waters would work the same way. there were even times i waved the water at the camera

You can contact your public defenders office for your county and ask what information they need. It’s based upon both your income and the charges you are facing. You can also ask the court for one after pleading not guilty.

Wait until after signing the lease again

Thank you very much. If I can present my financial status do I go to my first court date and ask about a public defender?

NAL. 

You do not have any recourse here. Police are generally permitted to lie to suspects, and being detained for an hour on suspicion of criminal activity is generally not a damage you can sue for. 

You can complain to the police department, but that is likely the extent of your options in this situation.

No, you’re misunderstanding. It’s foolish that you thought that you could just take things because you were in the views of cameras.

Can you share what he said?

Sounds like you're guilty, but you can still try to fight it.  Maybe the cop won't show up in court. 

Also it's none of the cops business where you're going or for how long etc.  Those are fishing questions you don't have to answer.

If grandma and grandpa are incompetent to care for themselves, you can litigate appointment to care for them, and then may be able to make the decision on their behalf to evict mother and keep her away.  

If grandma and grandpa are choosing, as parents often do, to care for their daughter against what you or I regard as good sense, they're generally entitled to do so.  As long as they're competent to make that decision.  

As a middle ground you might involve Adult Protective Services to see if they're able to check into the situation and offer support if needed.

No.  PA is Pennsylvania.

and to add sure you can go after the estate to get a principle win but if there's nothing to collect in the estate which is very much a possibility then it would only be a principle win as a judgement doesn't matter if there's nothing to collect

Really depends on where you're at

Okay thank you so much for the help!! i’m currently out of town at the moment but as soon as I get back to NC I will go to my local magistrates office.

You need to access all your documents you received and signed for said copies and see what the rule is . I’m going to 85% say that you Ginny pay that ifnebor yes you will get evicted  . Im sure you could make an argument out of it and you should , this is plain pettiness . I’m from Tennessee and have rented several places and never came across this level of pettiness . You can clearly just keep prolonging not paying it but at the end of the day if they want to be BITC$ES about it but look how much money it will take. Them to take you to court for eviction and all that . I hope you luck and hopefully this gets thrown out , hell you might Ben have a case yourself if they did go to ghat level 💔🙏💔🙏💔🙏💔🙏

Such clauses (the binding arbitration clause) are generally enforceable.   That would include small claims court...but frankly speaking, small claims is not going to help you regardless.  Small claims court is a limited jurisdiction court.  You need the general jurisdiction court to resolve this issue.

Time to hire a local attorney...they may be able to help you get into general jurisdiction court (perhaps by arguing that the expiration of the contract terminates the requirement of arbitration)...and even if you can not avoid the arbitration the attorney can help you with the arbitration (which will be less expensive than litigation in general jurisdiction court)

There are two questions here: 

1. How did they gain access to those records (that answer may be everything). 

2. Why and how those records are relevant now (they're seemingly not).  

What does your lawyer say about all of this?

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Why would you risk it. Get arrested for violating probation and do supervised probation all over again. You must wait until a court authorizes you to leave. That is the only way you start your new life free and clear.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

I was thinking of fighting this in court, as this is the first time I've seen someone pulled over for that. 

That doesn't make it not illegal not offset what you did

On a daily basis, this freeway has tons of people crossing those double lines. In fact, this morning, 2 people drove past those lines right in front of me and didn't get pulled over.

Right. Not everyone wins the lottery, even if they play. 

I think the guy was new, as he seemed too eager and energetic to give me a ticket.  

Not relevant. You committed an infraction; it's not like he made it up. 

Plus, there was another cop car a bit ahead (as one is usually stationed at the expressway), where they drove away as soon as the first cop finished giving me the ticket. 

Not at all relevant. 

You have no argument here.

If broke as a joke, I’m talking less than 50 bucks in my account, qualifies that works.

This! I'd be worried that the abuse is more than psychological and financial. OP, please be careful.

100% ask the bank for transaction records. But also, find out if he is able to close your joint account on you without your authorization and do what you need to to protect yourself from it, like immediately move all of your money to an account he doesn't have access to. Change passwords in your accounts and on your devices, too.

Not defending what you did,  but look up the law stated that you broke.  There was a previous Reddit about this same issue in another state.  The person looked up the stated violation and it had nothing to do with crossing the lines.  He went to court and won.

You can get a public defender if you meet certain financial requirements.

Give her her refund. You were wrong. Fighting this is probably worse for you business than satisfying your customer would’ve been. You messed up. Own up to it. If you can’t deliver the results requested, don’t pretend to be a business owner.

You need to ask your lawyer this.  

More pointedly, you need to discuss with your lawyer what defenses the company may raise, and what outcomes from here are realistic.  What are you trying to accomplish? 

I did send a demand letter to them

What did you demand?

You would need to either work with existing political parties or start a new one. This is a political rather than legal question.

That said, it is unclear from your post what exactly do you find deficiencient in current laws? The fact that the baby was qualified as stillborn? That doesn't prevent your sister from pursuing malpractice lawsuit if she could demonstrate that tge hospital committed malpractice when handling her medical emergency.

This should be set up BEFORE you move!

VT law applies, because it's not about where you physically were, but where the recording took place.

The recording itself is legal, and only comes into play if either of you sue each other, which is generally not worth it. Defamation cases are generally expensive to litigate, the fact your stepfather is staying with you implies they can't exactly afford to make it worth your while.

Depending on how long he has been there, he may have tenant protections. If so, you do not have the recourse to kick him out without warning. If you want to pursue that, you either need to provide traditional month-to-month notice (30 days), or get a landlord tenant lawyer.

Never take legal advice from your adversary, especially if they're an idiot relying on AI.

Yes they warned us, but it’s like a car repair shop saying that, “we may break your window while we work on your engine (which is the work you asked us to do) as the window has a nick in it”. In my eyes (and I think it will hold up in court) they are professionally accountable as they made the professional recommendation to tighten the center stone and broke it when they acted on the recommendation.

Thanks the reply as it tests the waters.

They have to be able to be served papers.  If you don't know their address, where they work, or where they'll be then you have an issue.  Given it's only $500 you may end up spending more tracking them down than you would end up collecting.

Do you not have their cell number anymore?  If so, figure out some way to meet up with them and/or find out where they're living now.

The last line of OP's question is what forms the answer as I put it (emphasis added):

Can this be done *for business*?

I think the most frustrating part is having family and friends chime in and say "that's a laughable amount I'm sure you'll get more than that." 

I think all of us here empathize with  you with just how maddeningly frustrating that is.   People hear about the outlier cases and assume that *any* case is worth a lot of money.

Unfortunately, as the others have pointed out, there's just only so much money that exists in any given case.  What the people in your life aren't thinking about is that the legal system can't make money appear out of nowhere.  From what you describe, your lawyers have scoured every avenue they could find to try to maximize the damages they could get for you - I'm sure that they would love to have gotten you a higher amount, but they have to balance what they know you want (and what they want for you) with what is realistic.

I'm very sorry for what's happened to you.  I hope that you and your wife are able to find some peace eventually.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

**Requesting Outside Contact** 

Requesting or offering private messages or chats is against the rules of this subreddit.  Please review the following rule before commenting further

**Advertising and Recommendations** 

This is a forum for legal answers.  We do not allow any advice on specific lawyers, legal services or legal products.  Non-legal advice on products or services may be allowed at moderator discretion.  Please review the following rules before commenting further:

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

This matter does not concern you directly, and we would need to ask the person it concerns questions. Please have them post here. 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. **Do not make a second post.** Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Why does the judge think you cannot garnish his wages? It’s not his call anyway, you have to docket the judgment in the county/district where you are going to collect, and have THAT judge issue orders to his employer bank etc.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Unanswerable Questions**

Your post does not appear to contain an answerable question, or it contains a question that is outside the scope of this subreddit to answer. Please see our wiki for examples of questions that we cannot answer.  

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

You lost the moment you decided to not use the playlist, without notifying the bride.  Get over yourself and settle.  Learn from this if you truly want to grow your business.

Tell them to get the loan transferred over in their name fully and then the discussion of transferring the deed in their name will be considered.

I am actually surprised OP just found out after having two kids that she has a jerk for a partner.  The reply by u/Formal-Research4531  is the best one and I am shocked that someone will even down vote it.

This is not quite true.  OP needs an account where he is the titled owner of the account and the adult is the custodian, and these accounts do exist (UTMA/UGMA accounts spring immediately to mind).

This would not prevent the custodian from accessing the funds, but ***would*** protect OP against third parties (e.g. if the custodian declared bankruptcy, his account would not be a part of the estate) and ***would*** give OP recourse against the custodian if they withdrew the funds to use them in an impermisable manner.

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

No we just moved in so we havent set it up yet

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

If this story is true, I feel so bad for the bride and groom.

What if the specific playlist has special meaning for the couple? What if its the song that was playing when they first kissed? What if they wanted to play the favorite song of a deceased family member to remember them by?

Alot of songs are sentimental to people and this dude just steamrolled all over it thinking he knows better. I'm a huge music lover and I would've fired him on the spot if he refuses to play any of my songs.

Sounds like financial abuse where he’s gaslighting and manipulating her. Sometimes it feels like you’re losing your mind because you’ve been made to believe it. OP needs an audit of accounts to prove this is the case. I assume the not sleeping is due to the worry.

NAL, but be sure to document all communication, and also if fhere were any before/after photos of the rental space, along with a copy of the actual lease

If they returned the deposit, they were acknowledging the returned condition was acceptable. I probably wouldn't do anything unless they actually filed a claim, but could always talk to a real estate attorney

Any new meds or health issues? Because the memory lapses are concerning. See a doctor on that OP. 

Also, does he have access to any food, drinks, or medications that OP ingests when they don’t?   Because I certainly hope it’s not the case here, but people do drug their partners. Not condoning it, certainly super hate that, but it has happened before

Don't get me wrong, it is a shitty outcome and it sucks for you. But, your friends and family aren't lawyers -- they see TV shows and ads selling the biggest possible outcomes for the few people who were t-boned by a billionaire. The don't have reasonable expectations -- or knowledge on the reality of how these things go.

More often than not, you'll barely get enough to cover your medical bills -- particularly when the other person dies in the crash.  There's just no assets to recover from.

“Everybody else does it.” is not a legal argument that’s going to get you a dismissal. It could likely get you a stern response from the judge. It appears you have no legitimate legal argument for a dismissal. If you choose to contest the citation, your only hope is that the officer doesn’t show up to court.

BOA will probably garnish your paychecks through your employer eventually.

Yeah that was our immediate reaction too.

If you've run into policy limits, then the issue isn't someone disrespecting the impact to your family.  The issue is you've taken all the money there is to take.  

It would, in most situations, be silly to draw out the recovery of readily available money to chase money that will probably never be collected.  But you might discuss the other driver's assets beyond insurance with your lawyer. 

One of the problems is your lawyer undoubtedly isn't interested in trying to go past insurance limits.  Doing so isn't a financial decision; it's a principle decision.  Lawyers make business decisions.

Yeah, but she’d be less motivated to do so.

Call me ignorant but how does a public defender work? I’m broke as a joke and currently only working part time.

my wife has a bookstore 15 years ago. relocated to a bigger place, electric seemed high. so i did what i do and turned the thermostat on her water heater down. it was cranked full up.

  
took about a week and downer/landlord came around checking the water heater, wanted to know who turned it down. the other space in the building was a beauty salon!

rhey were complaining about their water not being hot enough.

  
turned out my wife had been paying to head the other units water. so was paying for electricity to heat it and for the volume of water 

  
owners were much older nitwits that just blew her off “oh that’s not much money to do that”. it wasnt disclosed , they did finally lower her rent i think maybe 15-20 dollars a month. 

she ended up  moving out of there not long after

that though , owners were a headache

100% possible and you will have a fairly easy time of convincing the judge to let you have her. There's a lot of paperwork involved but reach out to her guardian ad litem.( the lawyer appointed to her)

We are definitely learning that the hard way.

You can ask. Business account products sometimes come with signing controls, which can be used to limit which accountholders are allowed to authorize withdrawals and transfers out of the account. However, there's often a significant fee, high minimum balance, or both: these accounts are a bigger operational burden for the bank.

There's also a very strong probability that a bank will not want to risk being in the middle of a parent-child dispute over things that fall within a parent's prerogative - like taking their kid's money away. Expect to be turned down, but there's no harm in shopping around anyways.

Like a solution where the adult can't withdraw.

That's not a realistic point of view about how this will play out.  

The point of an adult on the account is so the bank has someone they can pursue legally without any limitations like the ability to renounce the contract.  

We can't really create a situation where the adult has liability but no meaningful control.

There is no law that would require you notify the father of the child based on what you have described.

Policy limits I believe. They were looking into our under insured motorist coverage but I don't think that was any help.

Are there any legal things defining this cause she said she will sue

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Possible Trolling**

* Your post here has been reported as a potential troll or falsified post. Please message the moderators through the link below with proof of some kind that this isn't a troll post. Your evidence will not be available for public viewing, it will only be reviewed by the moderators for the purposes substantiating your claims. 

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. **Do not make a second post.** Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

This is what I'd probably do. Find the breaker with the laundry on it and just leave it off, route everything I need around it.

Yea it's from insurance. What you're saying makes sense and goes along with what they've been telling us. I think the most frustrating part is having family and friends chime in and say "that's a laughable amount I'm sure you'll get more than that." 
It really doesn't help when we are already under so much stress. 
I will make sure there are no other assets to pursue. I appreciate your response.

Most people have no idea what cases are actually worth.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Nope. 11 months is ridiculous and makes them seem like a slumlord

What, specifically, did the company say they fired you for? Or what will they say they fired you for? 

It is possible to conduct yourself in such a way that you can be fired even when your reaction is to something righteous.  

I want to report this incident with EEOC, and with the HR department.

You're certainly entitled to.  

more importantly I want to get my job back. 

That probably isn't within reach.  

What was your role?  How much was your pay?  This is important because as the CEO you have a lot to fight over.  You should pause the EEOC complaint and go consult counsel.  As a barista you should file the EEOC complaint, find a new job, and see what shakes out.

What does your contract say?

They are probably under no obligation to provide any of this for you. The exact terms would depend on your lease agreement, but from the insurance world a home is typically considered non-livable if all bathrooms are not operational, the kitchen is not operational, or the structure has loss power or the ability to be climate controlled.

Water damages rarely cause this.

is it possible to sue someone if I don’t know their current address?

No...ore at least, not easily and it would not be a great idea (if you do not know their address how do you propose making them pay if you win)

Time to hire a private investigator...hard to hide today...a competent PI will track them down and then you can sue and have them served

The text messages will help you win the case...but you need to get their address to proceed

If you want to have a character holding a blue soda can named "penbi" you'd likely be fine. Basing the entire game around the fictional franchise and drawing too many real world ties to the aforementioned blue soda company, that may be taking it too far. 

The example that always comes to mind when talking about product knock offs in a media format, is iCarly of all things and their "pear phone". It's clearly an apple rip off, but the product simply exists in the media. It's not a focal point, not a selling point, not a smear on apple, it's just there. That kind of parody knock off use often doesn't cause issues but ymmv depending on whose door you're knocking on

When is your court date? Find a “request for discovery” form online, and send it (with delivery confirmation) to the court on the absolute LAST DAY you can.  Usually this gives the court 5-10 days to respond. If they don’t respond, it’s thrown out for a rule violation.

First off, terribly sorry you’re going through this. Hope something isn’t going on medically, that’s causing the confusion / memory losses. 

Like others have said, I’d recommend gathering all account information and history that you can from the bank. No need to get him involved at this stage. Take that to an accountant, not his, and see if you can get help sorting it all out. 

Second, get your finances separated into a new bank he has no access to. 

At some point you’ll need to confront him. I’d suggest letting him know that his actions are confusing you and that you would feel more comfortable to separate your finances and will need him to provide documents to your new accountant showing your assets and which accounts they are in so you can audit them and recall them to your account. Now depending on his reaction you should be able to tell his intent.

A caring partner will completely understand your request and be diligent to help. If he’s defensive then you might know he has been doing malicious things with your money.

BB gun would leave large pieces of glass, not exploded glass. Probably buckshot and who knows what the surrounding area is like. Also, he sounds like an idiot, so probably didn't care about how much land he had lol

I am fine with an adult on the account I just need legal protection of my funds. Like a solution where the adult can't withdraw.

Because the judge was an idiot in her case, as evidenced by her being granted an appeal and the decision going to arbitration.  As an LLC, your business doesn't qualify for legal aid.  You were cooked as soon as you breached the contract based on your feelings.

Not really.  It means the first case was a rough draft, but her appeal means it got some lookovers and it was determined editing is needed.  Probably gonna edit you right to the cleaners

You literally answered your own question 

“know it sounds odd, but ive logged into our shared account several times and found transfers ive got no memory of authorising. I know it’s him because hes the only other person with full access and hes the one who set the online banking up in the first place.”

YES HES MOVING MONEY.  Get your own account he cant access and stop letting him gaslight you and financially abuse you / control your money!!!

A lot to unpack here...after 15 years, it seems the statute of limitations has expired.  But, if there was a prior court case and you lost (and therefore a judgement was issued) that judgment COULD be enforced years later.

Is that what happened.  Did they sue you prior and win? 

Or is this the first time you have heard about this matter?

Because the answers will inform your options

There is no legal process that forces a bank to give you an account without an adult.  

Certainly you can ask the bank if you were emancipated would that change anything for you.  My guess is, even if emancipation were a thing for you, it would not.

Do I go to court and try to explain myself to the judge?

No. 

Do I just go in and plead guilty>

Good lord no.  You need a lawyer. 

And anyone know what a fine like this costs and does to my record?

The issue here isn't the fine (which is probably small) or the sentence.  It is the criminal record.  If you can avoid that you want to desperately.  A lawyer gives you the best chance.

If you’re convicted of a crime, you’ll have a criminal record. Pleading guilty means you’ll get convicted.

You should talk to a defense attorney, including a public defender if you qualify. Some sort of pre trial diversion where you avoid a conviction is probably a good outcome for you.

Right. So he can definitely be logging in with her user info and making it appear as if she made transfers. 

I don’t think OP has psychiatric issues (from what’s written in OP). It truly sounds like her BF is doing and saying things to make her question herself and think she’s crazy. 

He’s stealing your money OP. Open your own account somewhere else and stop any joint accounts with him. Banks, credit cards, investments, etc…

Y’all aren’t married so you shouldn’t be mixing all your money together anyway. That’s not a smart move because of situations that can happen just like this one.

All family and friends were adamant that we would get way more than that.

Rule 1: don't listen to friend and family about the value of your case.  Listen to your lawyer.  

What is the limiter here?  Is it policy limits?  Or is it the assigned value of the case?

Simple.  Pay them back.

I don't have any experience with this company specifically, however I do want to caution you that what they are charging may or may not be excessive.

Most people have no idea how much water mitigation services cost. They can cost $10,000's and often the number of labor hours is not very high (the amount of time they were on-site). The real cost of water mitigation is almost always the drying equipment.

Before you get too far down the rabbit hole, the first thing I would find out is are they using something called Xactimate pricing. This is the standard pricing system used in the industry and its basically line-item pricing. If they are using Xactimate, then you want to look through each line item in the estimate and make sure that each line item happened. (Did they have 3 air moves in this room for three days, did they remove carpet and padding in this room, etc)

If they are using this standardize pricing, and the line items are accurate, you will not have much ground that they overcharged you.

She says if she files that she takes on half of all of the debt. 

That is, if dad accumulated this debt in furthering the affair, an incomplete view.  Mom needs to review this with a family law attorney.  

But there are some important realities:

1. Nothing the divorce court says will affect the creditors.  American Express can pursue mom if she's a joint accountholder even if the divorce court says this is dad's to pay. 

2. Nothing, obviously makes there be money where there isn't.  Nothing is going to bring back mom's half of the retirement money dad squandered.  

3. Mom may have some protection from money dad spent on the affair, but not just dad's bad financial decisions.  

Mom has got to find a way to get a lawyer.

Why did you think your music taste is better than hers?  I mean for your own personal preference sure but what does your personal preference have to do with dj ing a party you were only invited to as a vendor?  You may want to examine your entitled attitude and I flated ego after you settle, because reneging on a contract you've signed is definitely cause for loosing a law suit.  Good good dude, what were you thinking?  The whole point of a wedding DJ is to play the music the bride and groom want, why would you think your taste comes into play at all?

If your lawyer is telling you that's the best outcome they can get, it's probably the best outcome they can get. 

I presume they've told you **where** the money for the settlement is coming from (insurance is my assumption). If the driver died, you can't recover from them personally -- and if they didn't have any assets to speak of, you can't go after the estate.

People always think that lawsuits are going to result in gigantic payouts, but that's actually rarely the case -- especially when the other party doesn't have any significant assets to attach.

How do you know there is a high success rate?

Per Illinois law, you can't be billed for usage outside your unit unless the landlord did specific things before you signed, and the law literally names your scenario, requiring a written statement of:

Rental Property Utility Service Act, 765 ILCS 735 §1.1

the specific areas of the building...served by the meter...including...the installation of washers and driers in the basement

Illinois Legal Aid states:

you can sue the landlord to get back the money you already paid. If the court finds that the landlord acted intentionally, the court may award triple damages. The court can also grant you your court costs and lawyer fees.

Put your demand in writing, and given the renewal threat might as well loop in a tenant's rights org.

That site, by the way, mentions:

The tenant is still responsible for the utility they used, but it is the landlord’s burden to prove the tenant’s usage.

So, if your landlord can't prove how much of the meter you used, vs the laundry (which, I don't see how they'd be able to), you'll likely get ALL of your electric bill payments back, possibly trebled if the court finds it intentional.

#

Even though it is your landlord this falls under utility taps and tampering - you can report this.

Be aware this will probably piss off your landlord and you'll be looking to move.  

You can also call comed and request an inspection if the wiring is janky.

Vermont has jurisdiction; the property and incident happened on property in Vermont.  He cannot sue you, you did nothing wrong. In fact I would have your mom take his house keys so he would have no reason to be there. If he won’t give his key then ask mom to change the locks on all doors. HE doesn’t get a new key. You could have him arrest from trespass, breaking into your home and defamation. Don’t let him scare you that is what he’s counting on. Stay strong, I hope everything works out for you with your health. 💜🕊️🪶

right? walmarts fucked

Dude. You broke the law. You know what you did isn’t legal or everyone would be doing it. Youre just mad you got caught.

I just don’t want to pay this bill. It’s thousands of dollars I don’t have and all I got out put the visit was more distress.

There are no police running warrant checks on people at the court office. It's frowned upon because its seen as a deterrent to having people show up to court. The sheriffs at the court office have no access to warrants.

I think a few more details would help here. Trying to follow the story is hard because you have too many "they" and "their" and it's hard to tell who was a fellow tenant doing something, and who was the landlord taking actions.

What I am trying to grasp is this. Was the rent paid in full for 3 months, all the tenants moved out, and the landlord came in and started throwing out contents before the last 3 months of the lease were over?

What you are describing, if this debt was insured by him in order to pursue this other relationship (which, frankly, sounds like a common criminal scam) it is entirely possible for the court to transfer the debt to him in the process of the divorce

That said, a divorce can either be contested or not contested. Uncontested; Now the fastest, (and by far the least expensive) way to get a divorce is if you can agree on the terms. If you can agree on "who gets what" there is not a need for attorneys...this will cut the costs to a very small amount (court fees) Contested; if you can not agree, this is a contested divorce. To proceed you need an attorney or need to act as your own attorney (very bad idea). Here the parties present evidence to the court on "who gets what" and the court decides. This takes longer and involves attorney fees for both sides.   
  
SO, if your parents can agree on who gets what, great! If not, your mom will need an attorney.

A commercial vacuum plus harrows sounds way more realistic than hand-picking 1.5 acres for $30k.

I'd say so. This has to be malpractice. What i woild do is get legal shield ($40-$60 for 1 month) and ask those lawyers. Or there is a website called justanswer.  Then you can know. But what is your endgame? Compensation for your suffering? Try to quantify that and see if the cost of a lawyer would be worth it after the initial investigation with the cheaper methods I mentioned etc

Assuming that there's no external factors at play here, this could actually, for once, be a real example of gaslighting (as opposed to just a lie, which is what people have started misusing the term to mean).

Her boyfriend being "lovely and attentive" after she raises these concerns, slipping in that she's "not taking care of" certain things, and apparently constantly making plans without her is making me very suspicious, especially considering that he's the one who set up all the online banking too.

Pellets can be shot in a BB gun and are made of lead.

Your job wasn’t to pick music, your job was to play a pre selected soundtrack. You’re a jackass. Hope you get dragged through the coals

No legal advice, just a middle finger for you

If you haven't seen them come by, they probably are going to the wrong address (which might be wrong on the package, or the driver made a mistake). 

Legally there not much to do here. Contact the seller and ask them to get ahold of FedEx and figure out out, or ask for a refund.

Oh, Texas. SMH. Good luck. Run while you can. Don't count on getting that money back.

Because according to the appellate judges, the trial judge did not properly apply the law. Precisely what would require reading the ruling.

I’d simply leave the breaker off.. other tenants will complain to him.. If the breaker is in your dwelling, you have a right to turn it off. 

However, I’d be sure you have your next place lined up.. just in case.

Yes, he can report this to local police...if this was done on purpose it is a crime and the police could refer this for prosecution

Or you could file a small claims lawsuit to recover the money

Then why did I win the first time?

See how it was overturned? Because they decided that the judge was wrong.

Get a mold test from Home Depot and show them a positive result. Then say the words “you are constructively evicting me” if there’s mold and they won’t remedy. My guess is it might take a bit for the mold to actually show up. Do you have renters insurance?

Quick question, where did you get all the audacity? 

Anyway. You're in breach of contract dude. You'll lose whether or not you get a lawyer at this point. Settle. Settle now. It only gets worse each day you don't.

Unfortunately this person you're responding to is incorrect, you cannot qualify for FMLA unless you meet all the requirements.

The business would still be justifiably tanked if he pays up: she’s entitled to talk about her experiences.

What you are describing is a crime.

You have the right to report this crime.  Or you can not...there is no law requiring you to report this.  But what you are describing, this family member is, in essence, stealing your vote...so if they refuse to work with you to resolve, your recourse is to report this to law enforcement.  Again, this is a crime

Report his harassment and threatening messages. Get a FU binder(Google it) And keep a record of screenshots of messages missed calls,texts,emails etc. Also include the previous legal action u took to get to cease contacting u.
This shows his pattern of behaviour and how it's escalating.
Hopefully the ex has contacted u enough times that the police will take some sort of appropriate action.

Lastly if he does release your photos he will get charged as revenge porn is illegal. Good luck

Give bag of cash to lawyer.  He hands it over at closing.  You get deed and keys.  Pretty simple.  I saw it on breaking bad.

Thank you! And yes, removal is not an issue. I was planning to buy anyway.

This is something you can report to the state agency who regulates this matter.  This is illegal.

Don’t accept, the crown looks at that as a “win” for them. Just go to trial, and have your charges withdrawn.

If you want to change or create a law you can contact your state representative and try to get them to introduce legislation. Alternatively you could get elected to office yourself and introduce legislation.

It isn’t anything to do with undue hardship. They have to have 50 employees within 75 miles of the work location.

Modifying the electrical panel would almost certainly be a violation of your lease. Seek a legal remedy.

If the lease agreement does not require you to pay this additional "fee" then the landlord can not charge the fee.  

You may want to notify the landlord, in writing, of this mistake...they can remove the appliances (since you are not in agreement to pay for them)

again, why come here and ask a question you don't want an answer too?  This isn't your echo chamber.

Typically it is 6-8 for birth and anything else would be baby bonding up until the 12 weeks is over. A lot of places only allow 6-8 to be approved prior to birth then submit after birth for the bonding portion of the leave.

Well, then I'm looking for the best out here. a lawyer that suspects his/her qualifications is quite a sus for me. that's a case with full evidence and documents all gathered and set. high success rate and well ready to provide all even before taking this case.

I’ve been in the unit for 6 months now. I did not make them aware, because I thought it was a gift for all the issues caused. It was not there when I toured the unit before move in. So it had to have been moved in after I signed my lease and the issues started. I was not charged for them until this month.

if it was way over 50$ cool, throw me in jail. whatever. but its 50$ ….. wamlart is losing more money by pushing this than they did from just me

So basically with the tip situation, there is a jar labeled “for the groomers” at the front where most people leave their tips, and if people hand us any sort of money or tip, we also have to hand that over too. We don’t get any of these returned at the end of the day or on our checks, she just dumps it into her purse before closing and leaves

Did you notify them that the washer and dryer were present when you moved in despite not agreeing to renting them? When were they brought it? How long have you been using them for, if it wasn’t just since move-in?

Maybe talk to other tenants see what they pay a month. Would give you a ball park on how much you over paid.

NAL. They will get in very serious trouble. Are you not at the mailing address, and so unable to get the mail-in ballot yourself? Are/were you planning to vote by mail?

Contact the election administrator for that voting district and let them know that you are worried someone will try/has tried to vote using your ballot. If you are planning on voting in person, tell them that and ask if they can flag and deny any request for a mail-in ballot for you - so that one won't be sent out. Make sure that if you vote in person and they also receive a mail-in ballot for you, that the in-person vote will count. Likely, they process the mail-in ballots after in-person voting.

If you do plan to vote by mail, and don't think you'll get to the ballot first, that's trickier. If you're not living at the mailing address (like, a student), can you have it forwarded to where you are, or set up a PO box if you do live at that address but may not be the one to collect the mail?

The election administrators *will* be comparing signatures.  And the person committing voter fraud will go to prison for 1-3 years. And they might be fined. This is why it almost never happens.

But if they *do* do it, that's on them. It is not on you to protect them. It *is* on you to make every effort so that *you* can vote.

Yeah. What’s the point in stealing something you don’t need if the consequence is paranoia and you cant go back to the spot ? Pay attention to that feeling you have. It’s you telling yourself maybe you shouldnt steal since it’s obviously not worth it and produces misery.

i had quite few propositions over discounts and so, i had a balance that will totally cover all the lawyer expenses with no discounts at all. a qualified lawyer would a good one for this case since it's success rate is high. with evidence and documents all gathered and set.

Pre trial diversion is the best you’re going to get. Your description of events has me absolutely floored.

I am a lawyer in NV. To me, this seems like a straightforward breach of contract, you admit to agreeing to playing her list, and executed a written agreement reflecting the same. You failed to, so you breached the contract. Your bride’s entitled a remedy of sorts. I’d say just pay the $500 and costs, as you should have in the first place. You may have to pay atty fees as well

NAL 

But curious of your the bride or DJ since you posted about this from the brides perspective bacl in February?

Nobody is going to represent you on contingency. You need to adjust your expectations.

I’m guessing neither of these people are lawyers or a judge. Thats the only people you need to be listening to about this.

It was my belief that all the requirements had to be made, but I'll have definitely worked the amount of hours needed. I'm not sure how many employees they have, but it would be difficult to prove that my leave would out them through 'undue hardship'.

I just want to add that if you are asking about the joint account, the bank may call and notify your bf so be aware of that. My husband and I set up a joint account after we were married (just 10 years ago, not like in the dark ages) and anytime I interacted with them about the account they would notify him. In one case I just wanted to verify that the debit cards that we'd requested had been mailed and they would not even look it up without calling my husband first (at work!) and getting his assent. It did not work the other around where they would notify me about anything, because his name happened to appear first so he was the "primary". We closed that account, btw, I still think it was utterly ridiculous and dehumanizing.

Nope. My neighbor used to do it all the time. Not one single fuck was given by the police.

She probably cannot require a Dr’s note either unless you’re out more than 3 days.

Then why come here to ask if you aren't going to listen?

Unfortunately they don't offer anything like that. Might just have to quit when I leave and find a new job when I'm ready to work again.

Contact your lawyer. You shouldn’t have to pay reinstatement fees.

Again, the issue is if the reason for this "discrimination" (it is discrimination...just like screening potential employees for education is discrimination) is a protected status like race, gender, etc...that is illegal.   But others, not.

If you have people other then your boyfriend saying that you have been acting off, you should go see a doc.

But you didn’t like their answer and decided that unqualified people were more correct. This is a PEBKAC issue, not a legal one.

You really should open a separate bank account outside of you current bank so that your boyfriend won't have access too. Then change your direct deposit to it. 

I've read so many things over the years on Reddit and sometimes it ends up being that your boyfriend is drugging you. Sometimes it's carbon monoxide. Sometimes it's mold or bed bugs. Something is going on and you need to protect yourself and get to the bottom of it. You can go to the bank and tell them you think your boyfriend is moving money around without your permission and they will go through all the transactions with you and help you.

Also stop signing paperwork without reading it.

If you don't come to a solution and move out then inform the next tenant of the issue so that they are aware of the extra electric charges.

The seller is the individual who has contracted with Fedex, you should reach out to them

How much in the remaining balance? It's going to be pretty hard to find a lawyer to work on contingency when dealing with a company that has lawyers on staff.

well no shit ive talked to the lawyer abt this

You have met the other requirements, the 1250 hours? And the employee number is high enough? 

You are entitled to up to 12 weeks. Not all are approved for that. Typically it is 6-8 for recovery depending on kind of birth.

The property is between her and the landlord. She owes the utilities but you would t get the legal system to get her to pay today. You’d sue her in small claims court months down the road.

Notice how the person you brought up isn’t a lawyer? Or more importantly, your lawyer?

I’m a lawyer, but not your lawyer.  Your defense is essentially “I’m a condescending asshole who decided this music shouldn’t be played at a wedding despite my explicit agreement because my client’s taste displeases me and their satisfaction didn’t matter to me.”  You should have settled.

Look for city and county tenant resources as well. The cost of the machines use can be estimated by money collected by “coin op” machines. As said, it appears you have a strong small claims case. The management needs to fix the wiring. No renter should have to pay this.

If you have a disability, you need to work with your doctor and management to find a reasonable accommodation.

If you don't have an accommodation and aren't able to accomplish your job duties, you can be fired legally.

You have not “won”, an appeal brings about a new trial entirely. The original decision no longer matters. Take the deal that was offered if you can. 

Also, on another note, find a new line of work if you can’t follow a simple request. Also, don’t start a business as well if you can’t follow through with an agreement.

Seller probably addressed it wrong. It will get returned to the seller at which point you contact them and have them resend it with the correct address.

LettuceTomatoOnion over here rolling in dough

He does not have to renew your lease, regardless of whether or not you can hold him to account. However, you really shouldn't want to live there anymore.

You are absolutely owed the excess cost he has billed you. Possibly more, because of his fraudulent behavior. You should also try and leave the breaker to the washer and dryer off as much as possible - this will frustrate the other tenants but you cannot be paying for their (or the landlord's costs) and the landlord will be liable for their launderette costs, also.

The key part here is price. Figuring that out may be tricky, but to start, how much have you paid over the last 2 years? $150 a month over 24 months is $3,600, so almost certainly this will be small claims territory. Small claims is cheap to file and you don't need lawyers.

However, it wouldn't hurt to have a free consultation with one. They'll usually do 30 min free of charge to work out if there's any services they can offer. They may offer to send a letter before action to the landlord, which might lead to a settlement rather than small claims, but it's up to you if the cost of a lawyer's letter is worthwhile or if you want to go straight to small claims.

Usually the presumption is the car was loaned out to an unauthorized person, then reported stolen upon the owner finding out about the crime. This ranges from accidents where owners insurance won't cover the actual driver, to hit-and-run incidents where the driver drove or ran off, all the way up to homicides. Tow and impound fees are seen as punishment for a person whose culpability is suspected, but not provable. That said, leaving it outdoors without securing windows isn't standard, unless the battery was dead or car was damaged preventing their closure. Surely any evidentiary value was lost when it was left outside, and destroyed when weather entered the picture. Obviously they weren't concerned with preserving evidence.

I wasn’t sure if it was legal or not to require one employee to excuse their absences and not another hence asking. It’s my first time missing work here too.

Your think playing a "bad" playlist is bad for business, wait for the reviews she is going to leave. You will be known as the DJ that doesn't listen to the people  hiring him.  Your an idiot

"I was contracted to buy tomatoes for this person but I purposely bought cookies instead and refused to give a refund.Am I in breach of contract?"

yeah my dads a cop he always tells me not to say shit if I get in trouble, I never get myself into any legal trouble though, this is just terrifying me. My friend recently got caught stealing one thing with her cousin and they got her with the cameras and license plates. Only for that one thing even though she’s stolen I’d say just about the felony amount maybe less. I’m just scared that’ll happen to me. This was really impulsive and random.

1. Small claims court ruling is done. Gone. The appeal that you didn't show up for eliminated it. 

2. You can't drop the Trial de Novo appeal, that has already been decided. You are now the defendant in a brand new trial. The only parties that can end that trial are the plaintiff or the judge. 

3. If you continue to not hire a lawyer you are going to have to sit through whatever the plaintiff decides to present, silently, and then have the judge or jury rule against you.

Oh okay, my doctor had said that I shouldn't do FMLA and should just do Worker's Comp. Weird. Do you know anything about being asked to do trainings while on leave and workers comp by chance?

You need to move your deposits to a new account only in your name. If there is a bill you need to help pay for, then send him the money from your account. He is definitely messing with your money

Am I actually in legal danger because my own Ring system in my Vermont home, which he knew about, recorded him and his friend saying horrendous things about me and my mother in the living room?

Very unlikely. Even in jurisdictions with criminal laws on eavesdropping, a homeowner installing a security system in their own home and capturing conversations in parts of the home that are broadly not private is unlikely to face prosecution for eavesdropping, for both legal reasons and policy reasons.

However, out of an abundance of caution, I'll provide the same advice we give everyone with a criminal concern: don't talk to the police without a lawyer. Get a lawyer if the police want to talk to you.

California jurisdiction applies

California does not claim jurisdiction over events happening in Vermont, and the recording happened in Vermont.

Separately, the things he was saying to his friend are not based in fact, at all, and could represent reputational damage to me and my mother

Even allowing for some truly heinous remarks - allegations that you molest children, murdered your parents, and things of that nature - the odds of it being worth taking legal action over defamation given the facts as you have them are very, very low. It's expensive, the actual harm to your reputation and the risk of future harm is fairly modest, and the risk with legal action is giving these rumours more exposure than they would otherwise receive.

I would address this through relationship means first - by which I mean discussing with your mother whether you can comfortably continue to co-own property with her if her husband is so openly hostile to you, and probably negotiating a buy-out or joint sale of the property from there. If your mother is of like mind that his remarks are beyond the pale, then you might also opt to carry on with your joint ownership while she pursues a separation or divorce.

That's a great question !

Pennsylvania's "Good Samaritan" overdose immunity law has a set of conditions that are readable by a layperson:

Subsection (1) does not apply because the overdose victim was not transported to medical care.

Subsection (2) protects the reporting person from prosecution only if they fulfill all the sub-sections (i), (ii), and (iii).   

Subsection (3) protects the overdose victim if Subsection (2) protects the reporting person.

In the situation you describe, the reporting person fulfilled (i) by reporting the overdose.   

If they also fulfilled (ii) and (iii) by providing their own name and remaining on-scene until EMS arrived, then both they and the overdose victim are protected.

If they failed to do one of those things, then neither of them are protected.

It's a good argument that the law should only require summoning of EMS, but that's not how it is written now.

okay I will thank you

Theft of electricity can be a really tricky legal area, because electricity is not property in English legal systems, but your jurisdiction will have some kind of provision and it will probably be criminal, not just civil.

Hi Lank, thanks for the response. Any insight into how they would garnish my wages or levy my bank account if I don’t have any thing to take? 

And the TLDR section is quite literally for people who don’t care about any of the facts or information, meant to be a little cheeky breakdown. Clearly I have learned and I am learning my lesson, just because I’m making them legally, prove the debt and trying to understand what’s to come of it doesn’t mean I’m not being responsible. But regardless, I always appreciate the insight. Thank you.

ill mention this to my therapist who used to work in the courthouse im going to thanks

Walmart is not obligated to do business with you.

I’m not sure about taking things to the police first, because of the whole immigration status stuff. I am mostly scared of them even opening a report even if it leads to nothing because of that. The specific charges they’re threatening to impose are for “pornography”, which isn’t illegal is it?

You may want to look at AVVO.com 

No one here is going to represent you.

Stop talking to dumb people then?

Whether or not she filed for divorce would not change this specific issue and it's potential impact, unless I'm mistaken. If she divorced him, he could take all her savings and she's a senior, but she's trying to figure out how to leave safely so that it's more of an option if therapy doesn't help him.

They generally will build up a case to get you with a felony charge, so you're probably fine if you've already left and nobody stopped you. 

I would suggest not going back to that store for awhile, at minimum. Also, stop stealing.

Never doing this again is a good start.

If you were not challenged at the time, frankly speaking it is unlikely you will be targeted now.

IF you are contacted by law enforcement, do yourself a favor and keep your mount shut.  DO NOT try and "explain yourself".  Cops are great at convincing suspects that simply explaining what happened will help. It will not, in fact the opposite is true.

No, the requirements to qualify for FMLA are not flexible. When I was in the same situation, I took short term disability, you could look into that with your employer.

I would absolutely take this to small claims court.

like applied to FMLA for me without me asking them to or wanting it

FMLA has to run concurrent whenever your employer is aware you’re out for an eligible reason

Right, can’t you just turn off that circuit instead of the main breaker?

my parents and therapist

Who does that brain trust consist of?

Yep, hardcore LDS, that’s the main reason why they didn’t like me from the very beginning

I just looked into it, here is some actual data. 

HO-3 policies represent 79.9% of all homeowners policies in the US with the second most common being HO-5 (also an all-peril policy) being 12.8%.

So just off those two, that's 92.7% of all policies being all-peril.

Your information is very wrong. And if you really are an adjuster working in 32 states how do you not know this? I was an adjuster for 4 years (contractor side for 11) and I probably did a claim a month of a car hitting a house. These are quite common and covered losses.

everyone ive talked to thinks its overkill

You knowingly broke the law and were given the option for the most minimal consequences and you think that is overkill? Listen to your lawyer.

Do you have a pencil and a piece of paper? Make notes anytime you move money. Date, amount, reason, where it was moved from/to.

I just got the notice from Chase that they deemed the charge valid again 😞 even though there's no signature. I guess my only recourse is to take this up with a lawyer

before I am eligible for the 12 weeks maternity according to FMLA, is there any way I can work this out, or am I just in a bad spot?

You can potentially get a reasonable accommodation for the delivery itself and recovery afterward, but it’s not going to be the same as what you’d be entitled to with FMLA

"favoritism" based on what?  If not on a protected status (like race, gender, ethnicity, religion etc) then it is perfectly legal to treat some employees different than others (for example based on family connections).  
  
Perhaps not the best way to run a business but not illegal  
  
  But if they are treating folks differently based on a protected status?  That is a violation of the law and can be a basis to file a complaint with the EEOC (equal employment opportunity commission)

Regarding the tips...if the tips are ment for the employee and the owner is keeping them? This is illegal and you an report this to your state's department of labor as a form of wage theft

\*NAL

Don't communicate with him in writing about this. 

In other words: don't create evidence (ie: don't agree that you didn't say there was audio) that doesn't exist.

NAL - You lost the moment you broke the contract. The  business's reputation was shot the moment you broke the contract. I think you know all of this and are trying to find an easy way to escape the consequences.

It's called, "law of the land" for a reason. Id further qualify the OP's question as aytpical American. Only Americans travel and assume the law of the country they're visiting is dictated by American laws (and cultural norms).

I got a car repo’d a couple years ago and now I do not want to pay for it monthly and would potentially rather them just try and take the nothing that I have.

You didn't want to pay then, you don't want to pay now. So it sounds like no lessons were learned. 

If your ex works they are going to go after her for the balance the same way they are going after you. They will be attempting to garnish her wages in the same way. 

it’s already on her credit report so they can’t do anything

This is a nonsense thought. It's been on both your reports since the default. There are free debt counseling services you could look into.

Why would dad need a lawyer unless it is to draft and witness a new will naming the son as the executor and/or sole beneficiary?

The NRA's lawyer actually murdered a guy, so I doubt they worry about such trifling rules.

How would I go about that then? This is inherently a problem that would take time to reveal itself. It sounds like the burden of proof is impossible without daily logs of every event that involved my car.

A written statement from the mechanic stating that this could not spontaneously happen without improper work? Am I just screwed because dealers have no morals? I'm here for advice, what could I get to help with this?

Depending on your jurisdiction, you can ask the court to set aside the default judgement and get another chance to defend yourself. It would require a compelling reason as to why you didn't respond, but it's your best chance to make it right.

PS. Sorry, meant to add in my reply - he says he didn't think there was audio. I'm not sure why he thinks I'm responsible for that assumption - he was clearly told there were cameras many times.

It is dangerous to share finances with someone you are not married to, but regardless, you are a shared owner in the finances.  I would keep doing an audit on all the finances.

If he does move money into an investment accountant, ask to see it and that your name is.

Thank you so much. I very much want it to be a "nothing burger". I have no intent to sue or approach conflict that way. I'm more afraid that his emotional instability and shame-driven behavior will lead to him using this somehow to try to hurt me or my mother, and I was concerned the grey areas of the law could enable him to do that.

Why on earth are you co-mingling finances with someone you have zero legal rights with? Even if married, you can be financially screwed, but at least you generally have 50% ownership of any assets - 50 % responsibility of debt too, but some legal protection.  As a girlfriend you've got nothing.  This man, especially if he has access to your SSN, can destroy you financially for years, or the rear of your life.  Lock down your credit immediately, clas out every joint account and get out of the relationship with this scammer.

Nothing about this sounds overly strange to me. It seems a bit long from date of death to be dealing with this stuff, but if no one started the process for a while it's not that weird. When someone's assets have to fall through probate first, then pour over to their Trust (meaning they didn't just put everything in the Trust to start with) that elongates the process, plus making sure there's no tax liability for the Executor/Trustee is important and can take a while to sort out sometimes. 

You can make an appointment with an estate attorney if you'd feel more comfortable with representation. These are commonly done on retainer. It's up to you if it would be worth it based on whatever price they quote. Bring them a timeline and list of parties, as well as copies of anything you've recieved so far.

Is there a better option than pre trial diversion?  

Sure...outright dismissal.  But if you can not secure dismissal  (what you are describing, seems you "did the crime" and the evidence exits so can not fathom why the state would dismiss) then diversion is a good alternative .

Why hasn't your mother filed for divorce? Seems like that should happen before anything else.

I'm sorry you're in a rough spot, especially in Texas. They really do not care about women's health or rights there. Call the national domestic violence hotline .

Hadn’t thought of this either, thank you

That’s a great idea and one that we haven’t thought of. Thank you

What the hell? Is this god damn ragebait? Do you really not understand that what you did was wrong?

I’m sorry, I don’t know what that is. When they sent the lawsuit I had just had a baby and didn’t respond. I understand it’s not a good situation, just wondering how I can keep the car ( or A car)

Yes, our neighbor thought it was a BB gun that he used

NAL

Part 1: The recording

Legally speaking, this is a great question and one that leads to a bunch of "it depends". 

But, given that he was aware of the recording device, that seems to undercut any argument that consent wasn't given. 

Arguably: \*he\* may be at fault for recording the third party (friend). He knew there was a recording device and put them on speaker. 

More realistically: People say all sorts of shit by reading the law or using AI. The law isn't black and white: it's situational, there's context, there's precedent, and it's messy.

And, further: what harm was done? What remedy could he possibly pursue? (answer: None). Often fights over recordings are about admitting it as evidence... not as "XYZ recorded me and is mad at me".

I wouldn't worry about. Let them rant about legal stuff and ignore it. In the extreme (unlikely) chance they decide to take you to court, then worry about it. That just seems far fetched.

Part 2: Reputational damage

"Separately, the things he was saying to his friend are not based in fact, at all, and could represent reputational damage to me and my mother ": 

This is the trickier area about recording and consent. If you wanted to sue \*him\*, you'd have to cross the threshold of making this recording evidence. They could fight about that. 

But, given that he was the one who caused the friend to be recorded, I'd also think this is a nothing burger.

If the dealership comes back and states that they torqued them to specification and something else during your last three months of car ownership must have caused the issue, how are you going to counter that? 

What I'm getting at is is that you can't prevail solely because you believe it's obvious that A must have lead to B. You need to prove it, and a three month gap between repair work and the issue presenting itself is going to give the dealership wide leverage to claim a superseding event is to blame.

I did not respond, which was dumb thinking now. I was given advice that it wouldn’t matter in my situation and would just cost more to file it

Hopefully word gets out about him and he loses his "DJ" business.

(g) Records and documents relating to certifications, recertifications or medical histories of employees or employees' family members, created for purposes of FMLA, shall be maintained as confidential medical records in separate files/records from the usual personnel files. If the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (GINA) is applicable, records and documents created for purposes of FMLA containing family medical history or genetic information as defined in GINA shall be maintained in accordance with the confidentiality requirements of Title II of GINA (see 29 CFR 1635.9), which permit such information to be disclosed consistent with the requirements of FMLA. If the ADA, as amended, is also applicable, such records shall be maintained in conformance with ADA confidentiality requirements (see 29 CFR 1630.14(c)(1)), except that:

(1) Supervisors and managers may be informed regarding necessary restrictions on the work or duties of an employee and necessary accommodations;

(2) First aid and safety personnel may be informed (when appropriate) if the employee's physical or medical condition might require emergency treatment; and

(3) Government officials investigating compliance with FMLA (or other pertinent law) shall be provided relevant information upon request.

I understand 
I think it was because I wasn’t permanently moving to Florida, and we were traveling different places, not permanently on each place. Now that we are back in Georgia, and I intend to stay in Georgia, i canceled Medicaid benefits. I’m not trying to just get away with fraud 

If I were to report this, would I go to jail if I’m willing to pay whatever it is I owe?

Just seperate your finances completely. There's no reason to have joint finances as gf and bf and if he's already abusing finances while you're only dating, imagine how much worse it will be when you're married.

And maybe get this conversation with dad recorded on video to include today’s newspaper to verify the date.

Well, I was admitted and had been there for a few days. The staff was constantly rude and demeaning of other patients. Laughing at patients who had motor issues, talking about information heard in our recorded and monitored phone calls within earshot of patients, and neglecting our group which required supervision. 

I tried to sign myself out. I signed a paper and expected to see a doctor working the next three hours, but after I signed I was told that it would actually be 24 hours because the unit doctors left. I didn’t see a doctor for evaluation within those three hours.

Within the next 24, conditions worsened. Nurses began to yell and berate patients loud and enough that the communal room was tense and most patients in the communal room had breakdowns becausw of the environment. One woman laid down on the floor and went catatonic, another patient began to seize during this time and when another patient went to tell the nurse, the nurse shrugged her arms and said “what do you want me to do about it??”. During the same time, me and another girl were experiencing panic attacks and crying and trying to comfort each other. We also were unable to go to our rooms this time because they were locked.

I knew I was getting worse due to their treatment, so I tried to sign out to leave ASAP, but was held and went through that experience that night. When nightshirt came in, the environment was as so much more calm and it was a lead nigh shift nurse who took our report.

I was released the next morning and was told that. I left traumatized and without 2/3 of my meds being sent to the pharmacy. I left in a worse mental state, still lacking my needed meds.

These symptoms always make me worry about Mold or CO exposure

Again, and I'm not trying to be mean, but *bullshit*.  If you're trial ballooning "but I didn't really do anything purposefully wrong," your balloons aren't floating.  They're crashing.  

You didn't not know that moving to Florida and cleaning houses and not telling Louisiana medicaid was fraud.

Or turn off a breaker that the landlord wouldn't check like the bedroom outlets and put a not on the breaker door as well

I would blame your boyfriend but with your friends saying you are behaving out of character you need to seek medical attention.

The clerks are not supposed to give legal advice...but people are people and often just want to help

And I understand where the advice is coming from...if you owe the money and if there is a written agreement where you agree to pay the lender for their lawyers fees if they sue you (this is likely the case in your auto loan...you can and should check) then frankly speaking it may well be a mistake to "fight" since that will likely increase what they can charge you in terms of lawyers fees

You may want to contact the creditor to see if you can negotiate a settlement to keep this out of court...that would prevent garnishment

Spark plugs don't just come loose if they are properly torqued, that is the purpose behind torque specifications. They backed out over time because they were not secured properly in the first place. 

Nobody else has worked on my vehicle in the meantime, and I haven't put a lot of miles on it recently. Simple logic would dictate that this problem would not have occurred if the work was done properly in the first place.

You need to talk to a lawyer. Maybe I misunderstood but did you respond to the summons ? It sounds like you didn't so they ruled in the other parties favor by default.

NAL: As a joint account, you have legal claim to that money. That said, if you wish to avoid any kind of small claims or civil case, I would suggest handing that $6,000 back to your mom with documentation that you and receipt that you have done so. Lawyer fees alone for a case like this could total more than what you took from the joint account.

If you wish to speak to your mom about the situation and remind her of it being a gift, you could do that, but make sure to have everything recorded in some way. But if she is absolutely adamant about having that money returned to her, do as she says. It's not worth legal troubles to deal with someone that could potentially tie you up in court.

Regardless, I would not trust your mother. This would make me lose all trust in her.

Then decide you know better what will make her wedding day better. 

It's worst than that, he wasn't concerned with making her wedding day better, he thought it would be better for promotihis business.

Texas is the most awful state you can be in when it comes to police taking you seriously. At this point your best bet would be going to school counselors or making an appointment with a therapist because they are mandated reporters and they'll take it more seriously coming from an adult in that position. I'm so sorry you're in this situation but my best advice would be get the fuck out of Texas.

Unfortunate. Thank you!

Changing your passwords would be great except you said he set up these accounts.  He would have them set up to an email that he has control over and those generally alert to account changes and the chance to stop the change if he didn’t do it. Do not trust this person with one single thing in your life.

Gotcha, thank you for the specific reasoning why. Unfortunate that it's being used against them, but at least we now know.

Thank you for your help! Thankfully wasn't planning to do anything on the property for a few years.

Absent some specific exclusion in NC law, the behavior described sure seems like a violation of the NC Unfair and Deceptive Trade Practices Act, which provides for treble damages and attorneys fees to a prevailing plaintiff.

What you're describing has a name: **quid pro quo sexual harassment** — and in California, it applies to job applicants, not just employees. You don't have to be hired for this to be illegal.  
  
You handled it exactly right by staying professional. Now here's what to do next.  
  
**Step 1 — Preserve everything right now.**  
Screenshot every text message he sent you. Save them somewhere off your phone as backup — email them to yourself, save to cloud. Do not delete anything. The texts are your evidence and they're already timestamped             .**Step 2 — Write down a full timeline today.**  
While it's fresh: date of interview, date of each text, exactly what was said, how you responded, and the sequence of events leading to "we're hiring again." Write it like a factual report — no emotion, just dates and words.  
  
**Step 3 — File a complaint with the DFEH.**  
California's Department of Fair Employment and Housing (now called the Civil Rights Department) handles exactly this. You can file at **dfeh.ca.gov** — it's free, and you don't need a lawyer to start. There's a 3-year statute of limitations in California for harassment claims, but the sooner you file the stronger your case.                                           **Step 4 — Report to the company directly too.**  
Even though this person is leaving, email HR or the hiring manager at the company with a factual, unemotional account of what happened. Subject line: "Concern regarding recent interview conduct." Keep it short and stick to facts. This puts the company on notice — which matters legally and may also get you reconsidered for the role by someone appropriate.  
  
**Step 5 — Free legal consultation.**  
Many employment lawyers in California offer free 30-minute consultations for harassment claims. Search "California employment lawyer free consultation." With texts as evidence, you have a stronger case than most people who walk in.You didn't do anything wrong. You stayed professional in a situation where most people would have spiraled. The fact that you kept the texts and noticed the pattern means you're already ahead.  

For anyone in a similar position — I put together a guide specifically on documenting workplace and hiring misconduct, what to save, how to write it up, and how to protect yourself before things escalate. Drop a comment if you'd like the link.

Here's some educational materials for you. There is no reason for this supervisor to go around asking random employees for this information. If he needed to know it he would have access to it. Interestingly, he doesn't have access to it and hence why he's going around trying to find it out alternatively. Which in turn due to their meddling has lead to individuals making false speculations which has now affected me as a professional as well as interrupted my recovery and created a more stressful environment for me to return to.

How do you intend to prove that the dealership was the cause of the spark plugs being loose rather than them coming loose during three months of subsequent driving? And alternatively, why didn't the improperly secured spark plugs cause the engine misfire immediately after the first appointment rather than three months after? You need to be able to demonstrate this beyond an assumption that the most recent mechanic to look at your car several months ago must be responsible for a subsequent mechanical issue.

Only one claim. I am the executor on the probate and will be negotiating with them. It is a Credit Card bill. The Estate can pay in full if it comes down to that. I just want to hear from someone who has negotiated with DCM services and what is a good starting point? And, how that worked out for them?

Definitely get with your closing attorney, as this absolutely should have been handled by the title company to properly plat and record the deeds

Do NOT make any improvements on the property, as you don't legally own it and would be at risk

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Requesting Outside Contact** 

Requesting or offering private messages or chats is against the rules of this subreddit.  Please review the following rule before commenting further

**Advertising and Recommendations** 

This is a forum for legal answers.  We do not allow any advice on specific lawyers, legal services or legal products.  Non-legal advice on products or services may be allowed at moderator discretion.  Please review the following rules before commenting further:

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. **Do not make a second post.** Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

New accounts at a bank where he doesn't have an account. I've seen too many stories of people convincing bank employees that they were supposed to have access to that account, see how all the others are in both names?? I think I've mostly seen it with parents interfering with their newly adult children, but just in case, pick a different bank.

I am a lawyer. I agree with you. 

Note that OP doesn’t even pretend to care about what would have “made the bride’s wedding day better.”  It’s because he “has a business to promote.”

Welcome! I hope you you’re all able to get out safely

Okay, thank you so much for your advice!

Why was their a default judgement? Have you thought about a motion to vacate?

Who is negotiating? Is probate open? What are the extent of the assets, court and administration costs? Is there a Medicaid claim?

I also don’t want to blow up my mom’s life. She’s happy. 

If I did I don’t think I could ever forgive myself and I know she’d never forgive me either.

Lots of questions need answering here, since the best interest of the child will govern the judge's decision.

How old are you?  How much better a situation do you offer?  Do you have complications in your life like no bedroom for your sister without moving, roommates, a husband, your own young children, or overnight significant other?  Do you or those who live with you have issues in the past (or present!) like criminal convictions that could complicate matters? Do you plan to remain in Florida?  Do the on-site others support the sister moving in?

Do you have the money to support her?  Are you expecting support from Georgia or Florida as a foster parent/guardian?  What are your local rules on that in both places?  What do they pay and whenWould you receive enough $$ to be able to afford to keep her?  What are the time frames and procedures in both places?  Any long-term plan to adopt? 

 Is the desire for a monthly check what is motivating these unsuitable people or motivating you?  Does the child have an inheritance from your dad?  At what stage is probate and who is administering the settlement of property issues?  Are you on good terms with this person?  Is a desire for free childcare from the teenager motivating anyone involved?

Where does the child want to be?  How close are you two?  This move to Florida would take her away from her familiar school and all her friends at a very difficult time, when she has just lost her dad.  She might want to stay put even if it's a bad situation. Judges are usually heavily influenced by the childrens' opinions when they are teenagers, though this does not necessarily rule.  Even older kids are not always the best ones to judge their own best interest.  It certainly helps, though, if the child wants to live with you.

Let's talk jurisdiction.  Has anybody filed anything with a court yet, or is this temporary guardianship strictly a Georgia social services thing so far??  Are there court orders regarding this child already in place, say, from when dad got custody?   Where?  Do you have a copy of that court order? This jurisdiction issue is very important.  If there is no court order in place regarding the previous custody arrangement, maybe you could set things up to file in your local Florida court. This would be vastly more convenient for you in both the long and short run.  Much cheaper too.

Unless the temporary guardians are after a support check, the child's inheritance, or free babysitting, they should be THRILLED to have you take over.  If they resist you, then figure out what is motivating them.

A written agreement memorialized in an agreed court order with the support of Social Services is the best, quickest, a nd cheapest way to go here.  You will need the advice of both a Georgia attorney and a Florida attorney who are family law experts.  Check with Legal Aid in both jurisdictions to see if you can get free legal help.  Call the Georgia Social Services people right away, locate the child's caseworker, and let them know you are exploring this.  Get their advice on how to proceed.

Absolutely immediately spend time with the child, on the phone at the very least.  Ideally get her to come visit you for a few days, tour your home, and investigate the local middle school.  Lobby her daily to establish and maintain a connection.  Her opinion will likely matter.

Good luck!

Looks like you’re going to have to take him to court. Be sure to ask for complete reimbursement of all service calls.

Cops don’t know anything. I’m in a different state but here you can file for a temporary domestic violence order and it has to be reviewed by a judge and orders given within 24 hours. It then has to be served to the other party appropriately if granted. A hearing is set for a few weeks out and both parties have an opportunity to present their evidence and the will make a decision about whether or not to make it a more permanent restraining order. I wouldn’t call CPS except as a last resort because their focus will be to remove minors from the situation. If they feel your mom is failing to protect you she will lose custody. I understand it’s very difficult to leave but unless you can get a restraining order from court or through the cops that has a stay away order then you really need to figure out how to leave even if it’s staying at a shelter until you can get things sorted out. Contacting a domestic violence shelter would be the best first step because they can give you resources for how to leave safely.

I’m in therapy, but I’m estranged from my sister. Even if I tried to tell her she wouldn’t believe me. He raised her because her father was a deadbeat. When it comes to her relationship with my abuser she’s basically “daddy’s little girl.”

Hmm...may be because I copied from my browser and you have a different session.  Just google Tarrant county bar association and their webpage has a referral section 

Or go to www.avvo.com and sort by Tarrant then litigation

Let me start by saying that I understand (to an extent) your anger and frustration. My sister passed away 3 years ago from a terminal mental illness. I feel like she was ignored by doctors. I begged them not to let her out of the psychiatric ward, but as an adult, she was allowed to leave after the psychiatric hold expired. Every. Time. I am angry about that, but she was an adult and didn't have to stay. Trust me when I say that my frustration is immeasurable.

What did they do (or not do) that caused you harm? You checked yourself out but did you see a doctor while there? Your post isn't clear (you say there was a wait but it's not clear if you waited). What I am getting at is that I could voluntarily check myself in, sit there for 3 hours with no help, and then leave voluntarily before seeing a doctor. But I left. That's not negligence on their part. That would be on me since I left and chose not to be seen by a doctor. If I left and still felt like I needed help, I could check into a different hospital if I was concerned.

In Texas, a healthcare liability and negligence claim falls under the Texas Medical Liability Act (TMLA). To prove medical negligence, a patient must prove five strict elements: duty (doctor-patient relationship), breach (failing the standard of care), cause in fact, proximate cause, and *actual* damages.

Hazardous substances is a general reference to substances that are toxic, corrosive, flammable etc that are regulated. I dont think glass applies.

It's likely that, even if you do find that your boyfriend has been moving money around behind your back, the police will decline to intervene. This is more likely to be a civil dispute between you than a criminal one, although the proposition that your boyfriend has been forging your signature could change that.

The bank holding these accounts can provide you with detailed statements on request. Those statements will likely include where the transfers went (at least as far as the bank knows), but will not include individual authorizations unless the account is set up with signing controls. However, those statements should be easy to reconcile against statements for the other accounts and services you have access to: if there's a $1,312 transfer out of your joint account and you can't find a corresponding $1,312 transfer, within a day or two of the outgoing one, into any other accounts, then the remaining explanations are either a bank fee (which the bank will be able to explain), or your boyfriend moved that money.

The great thing about accounting - the kind of accounting we're talking about here, not the kind your boyfriend does for a living - is that it's mostly a matter of going down lists of numbers and pairing them off. It's not hard to do, it's just very tedious and detail-oriented. There's nothing your boyfriend can do that would significantly mislead you if you treat the bank statements as the true facts.

However, under the circumstances, it is very likely that you and your boyfriend are heading towards a separation. You're fairly clearly at a point where you no longer trust him, and if your reasons for that mistrust are not addressed, then the relationship may not be salvageable. Given that possibility, I think it would be a good idea to sit down with a lawyer who deals with unmarried couple separations (which is a lot of family lawyers, these days) to go over your options if you do choose to separate, to disentangle your and your partner's money and ensure that the money moved out of that account is dealt with appropriately.

This came back with “no referrals available”

My family was involved in a serious motor vehicle accident too which cause a death of one of the members. We applied for a fatal accident claim with foyle legal which led to a big compensation.

If you are looking to hire a lawyer you can find one here

and go to the doctor. The memory gaps,  not sleeping, other people saying you're not yourself and the paranoia is pretty concerning.

I would add a circuit meter to your leg, calculate the load difference, calculate the costs, send letter, reduce amount of rent, force him to evict you in front of a judge with this explanation, lol.

NAL obviously.

Will do! Thank you for the advice:)

The courthouse we went to yesterday said it will take time to go through the process and a cop today just said why don’t we leave. We told him my mom’s car is broken and we only have mine to get us both to work. Money has been tight and it’s just not that easy to get up and leave yknow especially when you have nowhere else to go. Genuine question and I don’t mean this with attitude or nothing but what would CPS do?

It’s two different systems: judicial (court) which is the lawsuit that got dismissed, and administrative (the actual BMV)

Now you have to wait for the court to notify the BMV and for them to process it

Courts not cops give protective orders. Go to the courthouse and see if you can file without a lawyer

Someone called the cops for a wellness check this morning about an hour and a half ago. We told him that we were trying to get a protective order and he said to my mom , “ You can’t get a protective order if you’re going to be in a relationship with him. “ We told him that she has been trying to leave and he said it doesn’t matter and that they won’t issue the protective order.

Exactly this, you don't want to spend the $$$ on a lawyer per hour.

My family was involved in a serious motor vehicle accident which cause a death of one of the members. We applied for a fatal accident claim with foyle legal which led to a big compensation outcome.

Calling the FBI is not the way to address this. 

You can request a copy of your "FBI record".  This is available to all.  Google "request my FBI record" to get started.

Once you have the records you can figure out what happened...if there is an error in the record you can then start the process to correct the record.  This typically involves contacting the agency that made the mistake and demanding the fix...and if they refuse you can sue them and the judge can order they correct the error.

Bottom line: phone calls are not going to help you...but getting a copy of the records in question may

Check with your divorce attorney. They are probably the best one to handle changing your custody agreement change. If that attorney isn’t able to do it, they should be able to recommend someone.

Tennessee law does not require pay stubs.  That issue, but itself, is not a thing.  

Obviously they *are* required to pay you as agreed.  And Tennessee law calls upon them to keep accurate pay records. 

If you believe you've been underpaid, and if the school won't engage, you next step is to file a wage claim with the Tennessee Department of Labor and Workforce Development.

They have refused to give me any form (paper or electronic) of paystubs or any other form of documentation of how they have come up with my monthly direct deposit amounts

Yeah, TN doesn’t require paystubs, so if that’s just not something they do, it’s not inherently illegal. They don’t have to respond to requests, and the subpoena can’t turn up documents that don’t exist. 

If you do start a court case it may need to be broader request for financial records /emails / etc that you can then use to deduce how they’re deciding your pay

You can make a wage claim or proceed to sue and subpoena their relevant records then

Apparently it depends on if you hire a bail bond or pay cash we had to bail my husband out and when his case was over I asked about it being refunded and they said they don’t do that.

This is random but have you been taking sleeping medication like Ambien since you haven’t been sleeping well? 

People frequently do things with no memory of doing them due to sleeping meds.

If you haven't already, you'll need to start with your insurance for your PIP coverage as that's primary coverage for auto accident injuries. 

Otherwise you'll need to see what response you get from the other insurance. If they dispute things you should consult a personal injury attorney.

Makes sense. Thank you.

Is it normal to ask for bank info and ssn of all parties involved before even having a conversation about the case. 

Reasonably so.  

what is the easiest way to get a custody agreement without a full blown court case?

There isn't.  

The question is are you going to argue over things at court or are you going to go to court with an agreed plan.  But the question is NOT are you going to court or not.  You are.

File for an emergency domestic violence order and submit all of your evidence. Make sure it covers your mom, you and your sister. The cops are trash. That should have been more than enough to get an emergency protective order from them and go to criminal court. I’m sorry they’re so useless. You may also want to call CPS but I would make sure you have an escape plan in place first. Your local domestic violence shelter should be able to help you make a safe exit plan.

If the last owner shot at glass, there is also a lot of lead on your property. Maybe worse than the glass

Utah parents suck. I am assuming they are religious based in their empty threats. Which are simply to scare you into doing what they want. 

-NAL but I am a parent in Utah who hates dealing with many of the religious parents in Utah.

I just had liability but part of that covers this situation so I’ll be fine.

Do you mean that you had underinsured property damage coverage ?  Verify with your own insurer that they really will cover some or most of the repairs to your vehicle.

I'd like her to pay my deductible

You can ask.   Or you can sue her in small claims court.

don't want her to be punished harshly

You don't have any standing to affect her driving without insurance citation.  She can minimize that impact by getting insurance (including an SR-22 filing) and paying the fines promptly.

The BMV can suspend her license (an "FRA suspension") if she doesn't do so.   Or, they can impose a "judgment suspension" if you or your insurance company sue her and win, and she doesn't pay.

If your goal is to minimize her license suspension, you will have to forego an insurance claim or lawsuit and rely on her willingness to pay you voluntarily.

Exactly - that's why you keep a copy. Most of that stuff they should NOT purge (for instance, if you've made an equity investment, you're still listed as a shareholder) and even a semi-reputable company is not going to hide the info, but mistakes happen, or it can just be hard to get it if you don't have a record yourself.

Reminds me I need to backup some docs myself.

The police are probably going to view this as a domestic/civil matter because you signed paperwork. What you need to do right now is go to the bank, get a list of all your joint accounts and statements for them, and cross-reference them. Don't let your boyfriend know you're doing this, as he may get nervous and start ramping up or trying to hide anything he is doing. Figure out how much of your own money has been transfered out, go to an accountant you can pay in cash if you have to, anyone but his accountant, and then take that money out of the joint account and then open new accounts where you are the sole person on them. His reaction to all of these moves may get scary, so be aware that doing this may result in a break-up if he feels like he has lost financial control over you. Any money already spent may not be able to be got back since he is currently an authorized person on the account.

Change all your banking passwords but do not tell him, let him come to you, and if he does then you know he is the one making transfers from your account with your passwords.

If their agreement was to pay water and that was not enforced initially?  That does not mean it can not be enforced now (12 months later).  

The VA statute of limitations for contracts is 3 years (if verbal) and 5 years if in writing...so if this all happened within the past year or so?  It is well within the statute of limitations

It's not a civil issue, you had a lazy cop.

I heard boyfriend and I heard finances, two words that should never be in the same sentence🙄

Honestly, getting a lawyer is priority 1, but there is an even more urgent action for you to take.

Explain your kids rights to your kid.  Make sure he knows he does not have to talk to police without a lawyer present, and make sure he knows how important it is to listen to that lawyer.

It is up to you how you want to frame the police generally; you might want to frame them as "they are strusted adults, but they have a job to do, and that job is *not* to protect you" or you might frame them as "The police are not your friend.  Neither is your lawyer but the lawyer works for you." Or something along those lines.  Kid needs to understand how serious it all is.

We weren’t settled in one place. We did travel, we’ve been back and forth places. and traveled back to Louisiana for the medical stuff. 
We cleaned a few houses a month and my fiancé got paid through Venmo. I’m not on the bank account.
I already ended my Medicaid case last month. I no longer recieve benefits

If you file a claim with your insurance company they (your insurer) will pursue a claim against her (assuming she was responsible).  

Your deductible is between you and your insurer.   If you file a claim with your insurance you are not then able to negotiate directly with her...that is the role of your insurer.

So if you really want to help this person?  Don't file a claim with your insurance company.  It really is that simple.

They owe the money outlined in the lease period. It doesn’t matter here if they forgot to do it before and just now doing it.

I hired a guy to work at McDonalds. We agreed he would cook burgers. I turns out, he didn’t like burgers so he would only cook spaghetti. Imagine the customer’s surprise at the drive through window.

Use a roller to squish it down further

Get a protective order from the court. NOW before he hurts you!,

It wasn’t intentional, We were in limbo and I didn’t know what I didn’t know. 

To be fair, that's bullshit.  You knew you left the state.  You knew you were working and not reporting that income to Medicaid.  You didn't not know.  To some distinct extent you actively defrauded Medicaid.  

I think you're probably not going to jail.  But I think you need to stop defrauding Medicaid.

Thank you. I’ve been throwing up all morning because I’m freaking out. 
I closed my Medicaid last month. 
I stopped it all together 

What kind of people get arrested for this? 
I did have a gallbladder surgery and I’m not sure how much that cost but I don’t know how much I would owe.

My concern is whether this reflects a failure in discharge planning and continuity of psychiatric medication management that contributed to foreseeable harm, rather than a billing error.

I am trying to understand whether these facts could support a healthcare liability/negligence theory in Texas, or whether this is more likely to be viewed as non-actionable care dissatisfaction. If this stay worsened my condition due to negligence, would I be obligated to pay thousands of dollars.

NAL. I doubt you will go to jail over this. It looks better if you report it yourself than them catching it later. They will probably do an investigation and you might be temporarily restricted from receiving medicaid. If they find you liable you will most likely have to pay back all or some. What that looks like who knows-payment plan, partial payment, wage garnishment, depends.

Yeah they can probably get away with it, makes remote work feel even more like they're watching us girls extra close.

Get an attorney, specifically in the jurisdiction where the custody case is pending.  A GA lawyer doesn't do a lot of good if your sister is living (and the case is pending) in FL.  Do a telephone consult if you can't travel to the area to meet with attys.  You should absolutely be able to petition to be considered a custodian, but you need to sort this out quickly, as cases often get set for preliminary decisions and hearings before a final trial.

Jess, and you, have a fundamental misunderstanding of an at-will work environment.

In an at-will environment, your employer has very broad discretion to change almost anything about your job (responsibilities, location, shift, etc) at any time for any reason with or without any additional compensation or benefits.

They can also terminate you for a good reason, a bad reason or no reason but not an illegal reason.  "Refuses to do work as assigned" is a legal reason. 

Her options are to do the work as assigned or refuse and be terminated.

I would say no matter what, lock your credit now, change your banking passwords for anything that is "you only." If the transfers from your personal account stop happening, then you know what's up. Seconding the other comment that says do not let him even have an inkling of suspicion that you're onto him until you have your money locked up.

That’s important context, thank you for sharing that.

Then you as a sibling probably have as good a chance of any other family member being appointed guardian. You should talk with a family law attorney, especially if another family member already filed first.

That alone would be off-putting for a judge to hear— that they're limiting contact with family, I mean.  
Make notes of everything you can.. interactions, when they refuse/limit contact and why.. like if its 11pm on a school night, judge will agree with them. If it's like 4pm for no reason and she can't talk, that's different. I don't know exactly what you're facing here.. but get to an attorney as soon as you can. Good luck OP

I bought an older car,  my very first car.  2000 Subaru, Manual transmission, 158,000km on it for $3500 used from a dealership.

I made it precisely 147.3km from the dealership, about 2 hours away at this point and I'm almost home from absolutely BABYING my first car on its first drive home with me (Mind you I learned to drive about 4 years prior in a 2006 Saturn Ion, also manual transmission, so no stranger to manual, grew up on dirtbikes prior to that, no stranger to the use of my foot and a clutch lol, just mirrored in a car)   they did the safety cert on the car as well so they would have "looked" at it lmao.  

-They wanted me to foot the entire bill.
-Fought for 3 months with my very own personal family law firm (Mom worked for a law firm at this time lol)  for them to fix it, missed out on a low km replacement for an extra $2000 because they didn't want to pay for replacement.  
At the end of the 3+ months without a car I had to get another $700 worth of work done on the car that someone doing what they were doing would have advised or done "while I'm in there."
The transmission that finally went into my 158,000km car was a 240,000+km transmission.  Just what the doctor ordered, Dr. Jekyll that is.   I got no rental to drive either.

I was 19 and they tried to fuck me.  

Fast forward to me turning 27 working literally 4 buildings away from them, hadn't been in that area once the whole time in between..  What a life lmao

It sounds like your situation panned out as "Best-Worst case scenario"

thank you for this! i will archive the post since i got an answer!

no need to be rude. thank you.

Legally, two wrongs don't make a right.  They just make more wrong.

Get a lawyer asap in Georgia.  Get together the  supporting documents you can to show that you want and can give her a stable and loving home.  Show you know you are in it for the long haul and you really want her for the right reasons.  You have a possibility of it working out - and you need good legal advice and support.

It is strictly illegal to trespass too.  But if you are a property owner and you thwack a trespasser, you *may or may not* be guilty of assault. 

Two wrongs do not make a right.

In this case, while landlord does not have the right to charge OP for the electricity used by other tenants, OP also does not have the right to interfere with other tenant's ability to do their laundry.  

Being in the wrong in order to fix a wrong is never good "LEGAL" advice. Particularly when there is a right way of going about this - a notice and demand etc., and a wrong way (holding the building hostage).  It just muddies the water.

WTF would you even ask this question an employer can ask you to do most anything (that is legal and related to your position and you have a skill set for)
If you don’t want to do it, explain yourself to your employer and try to work it out.  If you can’t then start looking for a new job.  That simple.  Asking if it’s legal is in most cases not worth the time it took you to write this post

before you go anywhere near the police rule out the boring stuff first, scheduled standing orders, auto savings rules, joint card payments you forgot about, but if even one of those transfers genuinely has no explanation on your end, thats fraud territory and you need your own solicitor not his accountants firm anywhere near this.

Currently going through this with my hot water. It's called an undisclosed utility connection. 

Call the utilities company to advise. In WI, they told me to go to the city to inspect the building first, then they get involved. 

I gave local law enforcement a call too. Fraudsters tend to make noise when caught and the police appreciate the heads up.

Yes it is legal. 

An offer letter is not a contract. Her options are to do the extra work or find another job. 

Sucks but that is the reality of it.

I also don’t have an income right now at all since September of last year. 
And I closed my Medicaid. 
Should I report the past few years? Could I go to jail if I report it or will I be required to pay it back?

been in a relationship with a finance guy who did exactly this, "shared investment" was the phrase he used too, open a new account at a completely different bank in your name only, redirect your wages there, then sit down with a solicitor before you confront him about anything, do not let him know youre looking until your money is somewhere he cant touch.

Is it legal for our bosses to make her do more than double the work that she signed up for 3+ years ago?

It is legal for an at-will employee's duties to be modified at any time.

Especially when there is no written agreement stating she agreed to this extra work?

An at-will employee's duties are what the employer says they are at any given point in time and subject to change at the employer's discretion.

What are her options as an employee? 

She can look for a new job.

Be prepared to move, you won’t be getting renewed, you’re a liability now. Find your local tenants rights organization and seek assistance. Ignorance by the landlord isn’t a defense here. Your utilities are being stolen.

Is the lease legal with the rental agreement this lady has with whoever she is renting her apartment from? Because there’s a way out

You would have talk to a South Carolina contract attorney to know. This subreddit is not allowed to do document review like that. And this type of evaluation does require extensive knowledge of South Carolina contract law.

There is also a good chance any lawsuit would not come with attorney's fees. Normally, an unpaid wages FLSA suit in federal court comes with lawyer and fee shifting. But a sign-on bonus is not considered wages, it is a non-discretionary bonus. So there is also a significant chance over this amount of money hiring an attorney, even if they think there is a case, may not make financial sense.

youre not paranoid, banks keep detailed logs of every single transfer including the device, IP and sometimes location, request a full statement of authorisations in writing, and stop signing anything he puts in front of you without reading it twice, this is not a maybe situation.

I'm sure she would, but I have not had the opportunity to ask. Her guardian limits her contact with family and when we do get the chance the speak she reads over messages or hovers next to her while we speak on the phone. It's a tricky situation and I don't want to put her at risk or cause her more stress.

Thanks for the response. I was worried that the "ejection lever" might have got pulled prematurely.

Her mom is in prison and has lost all parental rights due to sexually abusing her.

Maybe yes, maybe no. That's the type of question a judge would decide if something ever showed up in court. 

And we don't really know which way the judge will go.  Small claims is a weird place and judges sometimes take the opportunity to instruct on moral and social responsibility from the bench. 

It is precisely my point here that OP is best advised not to even open doors to this kind of question while they are trying to get reimbursed for an OBVIOUS wrong, by entangling that decision with a NONOBVIOUS one.

This is not true.  529 funds are controlled by the account owner.  The owner of the account can change the designated beneficiary to any other family member at any time.  The owner decides when funds are disbursed.  The ownership of the account most likely passed to the husband when his wife died (OP said as much).   Depending on the power of attorney, it either the father or son that controls any disbursements.

It is strictly illegal in almost every jurisdiction for a landlord to wire a shared common area utility—like a communal laundry room—directly into a single tenant's electrical panel without a written agreement and proper compensation. This is commonly known as a "shared meter" or "foreign load" violation.If your landlord is forcing you to foot the bill for other tenants' energy usage, you have strong legal protections to stop this and recover your money.

You were *suggested*. If you had not been deemed an appropriate guardian for the child, or you had declined, it would not have been carried out.

Taking action against illegal activities is not just moral it is necessary.

No.   Your hiring another attorney does not automatically fire your first attorney.  You need to let the first attorney know that you no longer require their services.

If the repairs are going to take less time than you can even file a claim with your renter's insurance isn't not likely you're going to succeed with wanting everything that you want.

Are you a bot? Why do you keep repeating wrong information over and over? 

Were your parents cousins?

It wasn’t intentional,
We were in limbo and I didn’t know what I didn’t know. 
We were extremely low income. 

Could I go to jail for this?

Landlord is not using that electricity. If OP filing small claim is that toward other tenants unwillingly using OP's electricity? Especially LL claiming he is not aware of it?

Is there a commercial vaccum that you could rent?

sorry, imprecise question.  

Has a court ordered the funds to be transferred to your daughter?

But doesn't he own the right to control what the electricity he pays for actually does?

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Medical Malpractice**

Medical malpractice is very fact specific and it is unfortunately beyond the scope of this subreddit.  We recommended you speak with a medical malpractice attorney; your local or state bar referral service may be able to refer you to one. They typically work on contingency, meaning there is little up front cost to you. Similarly, consultations are often free. It wouldn't hurt to meet with one, have them look over your records, and go from there. You should be aware that many states have very short statutes of limitation for medical malpractice, so delaying contacting an attorney could be detrimental or fatal to your case.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

You need a lawyer stat. But also.. does sibling want to come live with you? They are old enough for wishes to be considered by a judge if you have a safe home/ability to care, etc.  
I'm sorry you've got all this going on OP... I really am. I'm wishing you the best of luck in all of this.

You need to find a new place to live. Withhold your remaining rent and put it in escrow until they pay you back.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**AI-Generated**

Your comment has been removed because it appears to be generated by artificial intelligence or you have recommended that someone use it.  While AI can provide helpful information, it is not appropriate for legal advice for the following reasons:

1. **Lack of Accountability**: AI-generated content cannot be held accountable for the information it provides. Legal advice must come from a licensed professional who can be held responsible for their guidance.

2. **Accuracy and Relevance**: Legal matters are complex and often require personalized advice based on specific facts and circumstances. AI-generated responses may not fully understand or address the nuances of your situation.

3. **Ethical and Professional Standards**: Legal professionals adhere to strict ethical standards and continuing education requirements to ensure they provide accurate and current advice. AI does not meet these professional standards.

4. **Potential Harm**: Relying on incorrect or generalized legal advice can have serious consequences, including legal liability or harm to your case. It is crucial to seek advice from a qualified attorney who can provide tailored and reliable guidance.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

You seem to be in the wrong sub.  And you should probably be a lawyer if you want to start explaining legal concepts.

Here’s a secret my guy, no one judges a DJ based on the playlist that was played at someone’s wedding. You just let your ego ruin your clients wedding.

The bigger question is why did you renege your contractual obligation to play her list? Requesting a song list for your wedding is standard practice and you should know that! You were paid for a specific service, and you didn't deliver! Furthermore, you didn't tell her in time for her to find another DJ! You're cooked and you deserve it!

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**AI-Generated**

Your comment has been removed because it appears to be generated by artificial intelligence or you have recommended that someone use it.  While AI can provide helpful information, it is not appropriate for legal advice for the following reasons:

1. **Lack of Accountability**: AI-generated content cannot be held accountable for the information it provides. Legal advice must come from a licensed professional who can be held responsible for their guidance.

2. **Accuracy and Relevance**: Legal matters are complex and often require personalized advice based on specific facts and circumstances. AI-generated responses may not fully understand or address the nuances of your situation.

3. **Ethical and Professional Standards**: Legal professionals adhere to strict ethical standards and continuing education requirements to ensure they provide accurate and current advice. AI does not meet these professional standards.

4. **Potential Harm**: Relying on incorrect or generalized legal advice can have serious consequences, including legal liability or harm to your case. It is crucial to seek advice from a qualified attorney who can provide tailored and reliable guidance.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

I was appointed guardian of a decedent’s mother in a will.

If questioned, taken into custody and/or arrested, your kid has the constitutional right to NOT answer any questions without an attorney present (Fifth Amendment).  However, if the police have probable cause, they can arrest your kid, book them and hold them in jail for 48 hours before seeing a judge.  You do not want any of this to happen without an attorney as you could start down a path (arrest, jail, etc.) that will be incredibly difficult and expensive to recover from.

Get a lawyer today!  Otherwise incredibly bad things will happen.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Not a good comparison, because you are offered the exclusive enjoyment of your premises.

A better question is whether or not if they run plumbing for the building through your apartment, are you allowed to shut it off.

Find whatever local renters rights org that can help you, theyll help 10x more than any of us on reddit at this point.

NAL but never ever speak to the police without a lawyer. If you do end up having to take your child in, invoke your child’s right to remain silent. They can’t question a minor suspect without a parent present (I don’t think), but absolutely do not answer any questions without a lawyer. Ask for the arrest warrant requiring you to produce your child. If they don’t have one, I would venture to guess that they did not have enough evidence for a judge to sign off on one.

Hypothetically, if my landlord offered other tenants rooftop access but the only way up was through my apartment, would I be legally required to let people cut through?

You need a lawyer, or you will get a default judgement entered against you.

You won in the small claims case because small claims cases in NC get it wrong all the time and are frequently overturned. Small claims are heard by magistrates in NC, and the requirements to be a magistrate are pretty low (a bachelor’s degree in any discipline, or an associates degree in any discipline and two years of experience as a police officer or court clerk). They usually don’t have a deep understanding of the law and are making a decision based on what they feel is right more than anything else. That’s why there is an automatic right to appeal small claims decisions. An actual judge is not going to rule the same as small claims.

I'm not a lawyer. This is not advice, just my experience as a California tenant of an apartment complex:

When pest control services your apartment, do they do your neighboring apartments at the same time? While roaches are not really intelligent and mostly act purely out of instinct, they get the spray and then they escape from the area, i.e. to the neighbors apartments. 

While I wouldn't recommend doing it on your own, a bug bomb/fogger will not only kill the ones you can see, but the ones in the wall cavities as well. I'm not sure if it is the same in Arizona, but if you are seeing three or four cockroaches, you likely have 300-400 in the wall cavities

 Roaches are nocturnal and light avoiding creatures. If it's light outside or inside, and you are seeing cockroaches in the light, they are the weakest roaches that were kicked out of the nests because there's so many in the nests, there's no room to support the weaker ones. If you have both large roaches and small baby roaches, you have active breeding in your walls. 

I know it's acceptable and legal here in California, but I would make triple sure about your state and city laws on landlord/tenant rights when it comes to this type of situation. In California, a landlord is responsible for pest control at no charge to the tenant. If the landlord doesn't get the service done, or fails to rectify the situation, the tenant is legally allowed to call their own pest control and have them professionally treat your apartment and provide the receipt and that months rent, minus the money you spent hiring a more professional company to your landlord. There's stipulations obviously, you can't go calling the most expensive people in town and that would be something else I would say definitely check out your tenants rights. 

In every case, going forward from at least today, contact a landlord/tenants rights lawyer, and everything you do in regards to your landlord providing pest control and services needs to be written and maintained. Having a paper trail to verify what you have attempted to do to rectify the situation as well as what choices the landlord has made regarding the pest control issues is absolutely vital and if push comes to shove and you go to court per your lawyers recommendation, the documentation will definitely help your case.

In the short term, unless you are going straight for a lawyer, most pest control people use pyrethrin or other similar sprays as they are relatively effective and not very expensive. Other solutions are diatomaceous earth, and boric acid, and many will use the two mixed together.

However if you want my opinion, advion gel bait is probably the best option on the market today. It's a lot less messy, and because it's a highly effective poison mixed with a food matrix that the roaches will eat and bring back to the nests, where others will feed and it becomes a domino effect.

If you are seeing a lot of small roaches, there's some products that have chemicals to stop existing baby roaches from molting while sterilizing the adult roaches, effectively stopping the reproductive cycle. According to Google (take that with a grain of salt.) the discs are called Gentrol point source. I've never heard of or seen it before but it's fairly well recommended so.

Good luck.

I have lived there longer than 3 months. I called the cops, they said it's a civil court issue.

In Georgia, been to small claims 3 times on both sides, NAL just personal experience. Just bring all your info. Show he agreed to pay and was making payments. He legitimized the debt by doing so. Then he stopped. That should be enough to get your judgement though collecting might be hard unless you hit him with a garnishment.

 The judge will probably ask you if you can mediate such as agree to another payment plan while in court, but he will be held in contempt of he doesn't pay if you do so and have a judgement against him for the remaining part of the debt. Or if you can't reach an agreement, then, again, same thing happens. One gives him a way out of a judgement through mediation, and the other doesn't.

My kid was in a similar situation. She got caught with a we d vape at school. They used a warrant for her. I called up there and they said if she turned herself in, there would be no jail time. She could sign a paper and they would release her.

I took her up there on a Friday morning. As soon as we got there, bam. Slap the cuffs on her and locked her up. None of her meds or anything. They said the judge was out and would be back on Monday, so she would spend the weekend in jail. 

I called an attorney and he was able to get her out on Saturday evening, but sill. Cops lie.

The sad part is that I actually worked for the police at the time, 911 dispatch center. I talked to some people I knew and they told me that is how they do it. They lie to get people in. There warrant round up weekends are bullshit 

I am all for cooperating with police, but at the same time, I no longer trust a word they say. I am not afraid of them, just cautious.

Since her mom is still alive the will isn’t really going to matter. Who would her mom want her to live with?

Because small claims cases in NC are heard by magistrates, and the requirements to be a magistrate are ridiculously low (a bachelor’s degree in ANY discipline, or a two year degree in ANY discipline and two years working as a court clerk or police officer). It’s basically just arbitration, you’re making an argument to someone who probably really doesn’t know that much about the law and is making a decision based more on feelings and what they think is fair than anything else.

When you appear in front of an actual trained judges, you’re going to be cooked.

And cut the wires short enough  so they cannot be reconnected

THIS!

If they had grounds, they’d have already taken him into custody.

What did a 14 year old do to deserve two felonies???

Don’t do a thing until you are formally notified of a complaint or warrant. When you do, keep your mouth shut and tell your kid “I respectfully decline to answers questions without my parents AND my attorney present”!

realized this might could be fraud. 

Might?  Could?  This *is* fraud.  On multiple levels.  

Yes you should pay your taxes.  Yes you should report correct information to Medicaid and apply in the state where you live.  

And yes it sounds like you should consider a job.  With health insurance.

Don't know what legal school you went to, but the landlord has not "forfeit" anything here.   If you trespass on my property (a wrong) and slip down my unmaintained stairs (another wrong) and hurt yourself, you could raise a claim against me.  

Remedies in equity require clean hands.  Remedies in tort do not.

TIL I’m incapable of consent 
/s

Like everybody else said, do your best to get a lawyer. Ask if there is an active warrant for your child or a court order, ordering you to bring your child in. If there is not, you do not have to bring him down. With the info given, if there is no court order it sounds like they are trying to get you to do their job by bringing him to them. They may be trying to get his fingerprints to compare to prints from the felony.

Waiting until the renewal is signed makes sense for self protection, but I’d still start documenting everything now. Photos of the breaker, the electrician report, bills, dates, every dead laundry room test, all of it. Once the lease is locked, send it in writing and keep the tone boring. Landlords hate boring paper trails way more than angry calls, becuase those can bite later in small court.

Widen your search area.

The OP needs to consult with real estate attorney and a family law attorney.

Rule #1:  Don’t buy a house with your gf/bf until you are married.

Rule #2:  Don’t have children until you are married.

Rule #3:  Refer to Rule #1 and Rule #2.

If you can’t follow Rule #1 then have a legal agreement drawn up discussing what happens if the house is sold, you guys break up, etc.  It is easier to just follow Rule #1.

If you can’t follow Rule #2 then have a legal agreement drawn up for custody, visitation, child support, etc. if you guys break up. Again, just follow Rule #2.

My suggestion to individuals is to follow Rule #1 and #2 to the tee until you are married!

I appreciate the moral sentiment, but this is a thread about legal advice, and not moral advice.  Part of legal strategy includes avoiding giving an opponent - who clearly doesn't play fair - a mechanism by which they can tangle you up by not playing fair.

No.  The lower court made a decision.  She appealed the decision because she thought the court was wrong.  The higher court reviewed the decision and determined that they did in fact get it wrong, so they reversed the lower court's decision.

Think of it a customer going to a cashier and asking them for an override on a price because the shelf had the wrong label on it.  The cashier said no, so a manager was brought in to look at it.  The manager said yes, and told the cashier to issue the discount.  The fact that the cashier initially said no doesn't matter, the higher up person in the chain of command made the decision.

Now for some reason the cashier escalated above the manager's head, and is being told what they need to do to argue for their point.  The cashier doesn't think they need to follow those rules for some reason, but still wants to push the point.

You already admit you know hiring an attorney to fight this will cost you more than the $500 you're arguing over, but you're insisting on pushing forward.  Your best bet is to take the settlement offer you've been offered including the court costs because it's just going to go up the more you push this.  My (non legal) advice would be to agree to the settlement today, then modify your contract to be clear that client-provided playlists will be considered a suggestion, but you reserve the right to use your own playlist as the situation warrants.

I know what it's about. Been working with the school (principal, coordinators, etc). I only found out about the felony charges yesterday afternoon.

It is completely understandable that you are feeling frustrated. Radio silence from an attorney after an injury is one of the most common complaints clients have.

To answer your question directly: **The overall length of time your case is taking is relatively normal for a personal injury claim, but the way your attorney has handled communication and the initial collection of your records is not standard and warrants a firm push for answers.**

Here is a breakdown of what is normal, what is a red flag in your timeline, and exactly what you should do next.

* **Waiting Until MMI:** Your attorney was correct not to wrap up your case before January 9, 2026. You cannot properly value a personal injury claim until you reach **Maximum Medical Improvement (MMI)**. If you settle before MMI, and then find out you need surgery or more physical therapy, you cannot go back for more money.
* **The Insurance Response Window:** Once a demand letter is actually sent, insurance companies typically have **30 to 40 days** under California regulations to evaluate the medical bills, review the MRI results, and respond with an initial offer.
* **The Current Negotiation Phase:** Since the demand was allegedly put together at the beginning of March, it is common to be in the middle of back-and-forth negotiations by May.
* **The Records Delay (October to February):** Your attorney blaming the urgent care facility by saying *"they take as long as they take"*—only for you to find out they hadn't even requested them—is a major red flag. Personal injury paralegals are supposed to follow up on medical records every 15 to 30 days. You should not have had to step in, pay the $20.08 out of your own pocket, and do their job for them.
* **The Radio Silence (March 17 to mid-May):** An insurance company should have responded to a early-March demand by mid-April. Even if the insurance company is being difficult, ignoring their own client for two months while sending automated "promotional" newsletter emails is unprofessional.

Given that it is now mid-May, one of three things is currently happening with your case:

1. **Negotiations are Active:** The insurance company came back with a "lowball" initial offer, and your lawyer is writing a counter-offer without updating you (some lawyers mistakenly think clients only want to hear when there is a "final" number).
2. **The Adjuster is Stalling:** The insurance adjuster is ignoring your lawyer or dragging their feet, and your lawyer hasn't pushed hard enough to escalate it.
3. **The Demand Letter Was Delayed:** Your lawyer might not have sent the demand letter exactly when they said they would in March.

You have the absolute right to know what is happening with your case. Do not rely on email replies to automated newsletters. Take these specific steps:

1. Send a formal, written request for a status update: 

Send a direct, professional email to your attorney and carbon copy (CC) their paralegal or legal assistant. Use a firm tone that sets a deadline for a response.

If they do not respond to your email within 48 business hours, call the office and ask to schedule a 15-minute phone consultation or in-person meeting specifically to discuss the status of your settlement.

4. Know Your Options (Switching Attorneys) 

In California, you have the right to change lawyers at any point in a personal injury case if you are unhappy with their representation. You do not owe your current attorney money out of pocket to switch; the new attorney will simply split the eventual contingency fee with the old attorney based on the amount of work completed. If your attorney continues to ghost you, it may be worth getting a free second opinion from another firm.

The fact you reported it and nothing happened is what sticks out.  
  
I dealt with discrimination issues at a previous job and spent months wondering if I was overreacting. Turned out the paper trail mattered way more than my feelings about it.

I agree, you are a Jackass. Used to be  DJ and also a husband. #1 rule is the bride is always right, especially if they discussed this with you before hand and you agreed. I did a gig one night for a Greek couple and the night of the reception they showed up with a leatherette briefcase of tapes and said just play them in order 1 thru whenever. I literally had to go back to my van for a tape player as everything I had was either CD or computer at that point. But the whole reception knew what was going on and not a soul thought I was picking any of the music. Easiest gig of my life, possibly drunkest as they kept bringing me drinks cause I looked bored. On another note the way the girls were dancing to some of the traditional music was perhaps the most exotic/erotic dancing I have every seen!

The aunts estate will need to be processed in probate court.  Your mom and yourself need to gather all information you have showing intent the house is coming to you.  Hopefully you can find IN PRINT (email, text, letter) the intent her half comes to you

All risk/open peril is far from standard. I work 32 states and am currently a licensed adjuster. When did you work in insurance 1976?  They should read their policy before they make a claim.

Given the amount involved and the POA issues, a consultation with an elder law or probate attorney is probably money well spent.

If everything happened after she turned 18 and was genuinely consensual, their ability to successfully sue you is probably a lot weaker than they're making it sound.

This is getting downvoted by all the lawyers who think the answer to everything is hire a lawyer. But it’s actually not bad advice. You can just file for a restraining order yourself and show up to court. It isn’t that hard to do. I did it myself for my first restraining order and my 5 year renewal of the restraining order. A lawyer filed the lifetime restraining order for me. Those are hard to get and by that time my case was quite complicated.

NAL. 

Get one, now, even if they are in a different city but same state. 

Police may not  have a warrant or probable cause because if they did, they wouldn't be asking you to bring them. But, it doesn't mean that for sure. 

I'd be telling the child to be completely honest with YOU and the Lawyer about what actually happened, and that any punishment about what happened would not be coming from you, barring anything extreme. We're not talking about grades, we're talking about prison and future opportunities being framed in that lens.

You need to talk to a Georgia family law attorney ASAP.

NAL but are you 100% sure that there were no tissue samples saved with the Pathology department?

That may be the case here, but no one should be signing ANYTHING the police hand them in this situation without an attorney reading it and telling them it’s okay to sign.

Trying to navigate all this confusing legal paperwork when you are already completely overwhelmed by a loss is a special kind of hell and I truly hope the clerk just lets you file a simple amendment instead of making you start over

So what happens when they tell OP, “sorry, we don’t have your e-mail or personal documents anymore. We purge that, by policy, X days after any termination/resignation.” Just my curiosity. Is stock or share ownership/transfer documented elsewhere in a place accessible to OP?

That’s why wills need a regular read over as life changes.

Tell all your neighbours what’s been going on and why the power is off. 

Put up a notice in the laundry room explaining that one resident has been fraudulently charged for the laundry power for two years and is owed $1500 by the landlord. 

Personally I’d have asked the electrician to disconnect the laundry power cables from my breaker. 

Maybe get someone in to do that now. Secretly.

I got arrested at 14. 2 or 3 felonies. They made me sign some papers and then released me into the custody of my parents. They had to sign things too. I went home that day, never got out in handcuffs. But I had a court date.

Thank you. This is all very helpful advice.

I've never even seen the will he was working on drawing up (evil step-mom) or know if it was finalized. He had cancer and died within 5 months of diagnosis.

What kind of social security benefits were you getting? And for who in the household?

Thank you for the advice!

It's not legally binding. The best interest of the child will always be the standard.

You do realize that people designate guardians for their kids in their wills, right?

You should figure out which specific breaker controls the laundry and see if you can live without that specific one. As well i would be pursuing a legal claim.

Oh I can’t talk to MS without dad - they’ve made that clear.

Aghh. I was a stalking victim and had police involvement in my cases in both Cali and NY. Both states are horrible for stalking victims IMO. In California stalking is a wobbler (could be a felony or a misdemeanor) but is mostly charged as a misdemeanor. The stalker would likely get charged with a misdemeanor and sent to mental health diversion. It does eventually help to keep filing police reports over and over again. Once I had about a dozen reports they finally started to take it seriously in California. My police reports were all AFTER I already had a restraining order in place that he repeatedly violated. NYPD told me they aren’t going to extradite him from NJ unless he kills me 🙄 (he was charged in NY with violating a protective order and I gave NYPD his address with the hopes that they would arrest him). 
I definitely think pursuing a protective order is worth it because any contact after that is going to be in violation of the protective order. 
Criminal charges from violating a protective order can be charged in the jurisdiction that issues the protective order or the jurisdiction in which the victim is present when the order is violated. If these messages are frequent I would physically “go on vacation” to a small town in a state with a for profit prison system and good stalking laws and just wait for her to violate the protective order there and file police reports with the local police. A restraining order from California is enforceable in all 50 states under the full faith and credit act. NAL.

In Massachusetts the landlord would be responsible for the full electric bill as it is not separated. Gather up your bills and present them the fill for the full 2 years.

Set up a toll booth at the door and start charging a dollar per load

I am glad to hear your health has improved. 

I am having a hard time figuring out what your damages are. Is the bill inaccurate? Can you explain what you want to sue for? It sounds like you checked in a stayed at the hospital, and then checked yourself out. Did they bill for more days than you stayed or services you didn’t use?

Did the electrician correct the problem?  If not, continue turning-off the breaker that powers the laundry, especially when folks are trying to use it.

The survey is going to be the key piece here. Online maps are useful, but they aren't what determines the legal boundary.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

If this is real, stop communicating verbally and start documenting everything. Get the electrician's report in writing, save photos, keep copies of your bills, and calculate the estimated overcharges.

This HAS to be ragebait.  

NAL- but you dont need to be a lawyer to know this: you are a terrible person for deciding to change someone else wedding day after agreeing to do it ask they asked, and a terrible business operator to consistently deny settlements when you cant afford to proceed without.

Is it possible for me to petition for permanent custody without a will from our father who had full custody at the time of his passing?

Sure. Judge still decides what’s in her best interests regardless

You’d want to have a family attorney in Georgia

If the seller knew about it and failed to disclose it, I'd absolutely be talking to a real estate attorney.

we are opening ourselves up to liability issues with this sign

I would agree with that assessment - at least as far as the fact you may end up in court defending yourself.

If your dog, unattended, bites someone who was 'invited' by a sign, that could be an issue.  

Also, you're training your dog to accept treats from strangers, which could include a crazy/disgruntled person trying to poison your dog.

Claude responded: the utility company angle is underrated here.the utility company angle is underrated here. call ComEd directly and tell them a tenant's meter is being used to power common area equipment. they have their own rules about this that are separate from landlord-tenant law, and they can force the rewiring independent of whatever your landlord wants to do. that removes the "too complicated to fix" excuse entirely.
also document everything before you do anything else. the electrician's notes, photos of the panel, your bills for the last 24 months. small claims in Illinois goes up to $10k so you're well within range without needing a lawyer.

I know you're looking for an attorney but don't go without consulting with one. My father took me to the station to turn myself in when I was 14-15 and it turned out to be a HUGE mistake. Almost ruined my life and wound up costing him thousands of dollars when the entire thing was completely unnecessary to begin with.

Right, but isn't a strong preference. I completely understand that a judge will ultimately determine what is best for the child.

Did your child tell you if they know what this is about ?

Save gas . Do not go to court. You will loose regardless.
OTOH if they sued the LLC the judgment will be against the LLC and if the LLC is penniless they may not be able to recover the awarded damages. If they sued you personally and they should have in addition to suing the LLC you are allowed to defend yourself but you would lose based on facts of the case. But if you are not part of the case only the LLC assets are at risk.

They used to make lead BBs though, so if it was that wouldn't guarantee it's not contaminated either unfortunately.

You retain a lawyer today and do exactly as they say. You don't want to draw this out as the police could put out a warrant and come get your kid. That is not the scenario you want to happen, you want to retain counsel this morning and let them negotiate with the police on your kids behalf. Also, since you didn't mention, if your kid is 6, it is unlikely the police will come and get them, but if your child is 17, they could come to get them. Having 2 felonies is a very serious situation and it needs to be your top priority. Additionally, assuming your "child" is a teenager, take away all of their electronics and don't let them talk to anyone. Even if they are playing a video game and chatting, that can be used against them

I would renew my lease if you like living there and then take him to small claims court.

But scamming your tenant out of money because the landlord refuses to upkeep/update their infrastructure is cool though, just keep getting railed until something magically happens.

If you have no way to pay it then he sits in jail till he's let go. Who knows exactly why they waited but this is normal. Could be they couldn't find him, they were back logged or didn't have the resources. Did you think there aould be no consequences to missing a po meeting?

People are not property - a person cannot be left to someone in a will.

See if there has already been a survey done on your or your neighbors property. If a survey was done, it becomes public record. Otherwise, you will have to face getting the survey done to avoid legal disputes with your neighbor.

OP:  If you hired a painter and told them you wanted the room painted grey and when you came home, they told you they thought blue would be a better color so they went ahead and did that, would you consider them a good painter? 

Settle.

Oh man, that's not normal, even if it's technically a family situation.  
  
If somebody has you hiding in your room and avoiding basic parts of the house, there may be more going on than just family conflict.

Not in a big city so I don't have 100 offices to call. 

None of it happens instantly either... As much as I wish it did

Let him field complaints from the other tenants.

The landlord forfeited that provision when he forced the one tenant to pay for all the others laundry usage.

The fact she was accommodated for seven months and then suddenly couldn't be accommodated anywhere would make me want answers.

either you keep paying it or he wont renew your lease. You may have some luck if you can negotiate a small rent decrease, like kissing his ass nicely, but likely you will have to move out if you push this. It sucks, its not fair, but thats pretty much your options.  he can choose not to renew for any reason or for no reason and you cant do much about it. but you can sue him for the money back after you move!

I am a lawyer, but in VA.  To me, paying her the $500 and costs is the way to go.  You admit you agreed to play her list, and she has that proof.  You didn't do it, so you breached that contract, in my opinion.  This is really quite straightforward, and if you go on with the court case, you may owe her atty fees as well.  Just pay it.

I'd wait and see if a ticket even shows up, but yeah, if it does, get a traffic lawyer involved quickly.

If your lease has a caveat that allows them to evict you in 3 days would be the only way they could force it. Otherwise they have to have a court order in order to force you out of the apartment.

The absolute dread of looking out your own window and feeling sick to your stomach because a toxic neighbor is trying to ruin your peace of mind over a property line is just so deeply exhausting

Lol u have another adult living in your home now, welfare considers that additional income to you now vs the liability of a child. Its not a legal matter.

The service issue matters way more than the scratches.  
  
If they entered a default judgment because you didn't appear, but you never got notice, there may be a way to challenge it. I dealt with a mess involving missed court notices and first thing I'd do is get copies of every filing and see exactly what address they used.

How are you STILL looking for lawyers? Find one and go there. It’s your child ffs

100% agree I need a lawyer and I am looking. Just happening so fast and I'm trying to figure out what to do today.

Nah, one missed call isn't enough to panic. The bigger question is whether they get back to you before the hearing and explain the plan.

Actively looking for lawyers and 100% agree I need to talk to one. 

I guess knowing who has what rights is part of the problem. I'm at the stage where I received a phone call being notified of charges (yesterday) and they want me to bring the child in today. 

I want to comply with necessary steps, but don't want to do anything unnecessary to cause undue stress on my child. I would expect to see something in writing, but have no idea what is normal in this situation.

Because OP took an action that turned the breaker off.  Affirmative action that inflicts damage is actionable.  

If I take the breaks off my car that I've rented to you, and after you are informed that they don't work you start it and drive it and crash, and I get sued, I can still counter-claim against you for starting it and driving it.

I would not put serious money into that house unless I owned it or had a written agreement protecting me. A hoarder house with rodents and major repairs can get expensive fast.

If I’m renting, the owner needs to make it safe and livable first. If I’m paying for the cleanup, repairs, taxes, and utilities, then I need legal ownership or a clear path to ownership before touching the place. Family promises are nice, but paperwork protects everyone.

The best way out was to not breach the contract and simply play the playlist.  Imagine hiring a DJ who refuses to play the songs you want at your wedding?  That would piss anyone off rightly.

This is theft of services. It’s also likely a code violation, as your circuit panel is likely overloaded running that number of machines and without upgraded panel presents a hazard.  
Tell the landlord to reimburse you for the extra expense for past 2 years.  Next call city code enforcement .. this will cost them time and money and a lot of fines.

How old is the child?

I wouldn’t waste money on a lawyer because you’re definitely gonna lose. You were hired to provide a service you didn’t provide. Case closed

Contact a lawyer first before heading to the station.  In the US, the police are allowed to lie or use deceit to coerce confessions.  A lawyer is your child’s best defence.

Based on OP's commentary in this thread I am confident he will live but he will not be learning anything from this experience.

Do you just create random apartment related issue posts for fun?

How is the landlord cross-claiming a faulty wiring setup that he himself is suppose to upkeep?? That literally makes no sense lol

This is not clear.   OP does not own the wires or the electricity.  OP's affirmative action (turning off a breaker) inflicts damage on other tenants - to wit, the inability to use a service landlord provides to them in their lease.  

This puts OP smack in the middle of a potential claim of damage (by other tenants) to the landlord.  And the landlord could cross-claim against OP.  

Just because OP has access to the breaker does not make it a smart idea to turn it off.

i won the first time, doesn’t that mean something?

No.  It doesn't mean anything, because the appeal nullified that outcome.  

**EDIT (last question) :** What’s the benefit of seeking legal advice/consultation from a lawyer if I still have to show up with a physical lawyer?

The benefit is that the attorney will tell you that $646 is the cheapest you're getting out of things at this point and you should consider yourself lucky they aren't seeking more--because you're simply going to lose since you're unrepresented.

Doesn't really matter.  You lost on appeal and that's the one that counts.

People grossly underestimate how hard it is to get nails out of the yard.

We had our roof replaced in 2021. I bought a magnet sweeper thing with wheels. I ran it every day for a month, every week for the next few months, and then every 2 months for the rest of the first year.

I found nails every time.

To this day, I will *still* occasionally find nails and other debris from that replacement.

Yes, it has all that information.

I have and yet have received no response. 

On this website, look for "Confirm That Your ESA Letter Is Legitimate." Does your ESA letter have all of that information?

NAL

Settle and pay her the partial refund. Be thankful that’s all she’s asking for, because she is actually entitled to a full refund. You breached a written contract by not playing her agreed upon playlist. All because you didn’t like it? Guess what, clown. It was HER wedding, not yours. You’re so worried about your reputation. Imagine the backlash when potential clients find out that you completely disregard contracts and the wishes of clients.

Thats not rape though. Honestly, I don’t think there’s anything legally you can do because a guy came inside you. Should have used a condom

Do you not understand what an appeal is? You didn't "win."

tbh it’s so frustrating when family takes advantage like that. definitely check your local laws because cali tenant rights are super strict and you might have to give him a formal 30-day notice to vacate even if he’s not on the lease. good luck girl hope you get your money back!

You seem to have very little knowledge of the law. You need advice from a lawyer so that they can review options and prepare for the actual proceedings, if so. They cannot just show up and learn about this on the very day of the trial. From the look of things you do not have the stronghand here as you did not respect the verbal / sms contract established. It will be much cheaper to suggest a financial arrangement than go through with a lawyer for both sides. lesson learned

They are definitely covered under the FHA as they use a real estate agent as a property manager. Thank you for the helpful insight.

Even if you had a solid case (you don't by your own admission of the facts in the post) you can't afford a lawyer to win at court. You have now coat yourself more money because you appealed a judge's decision and demanded a trial without knowing what you were getting yourself into, and every billable hour you cost the plaintiff is going to be on your dime. Winning, emotionally or financially, is out the window. At this point the question is what is the cheapest way out of this mess and the answer is to apologize and beg the plaintiff to accept the offer of $500 + court fees because if you let this progress any further you will be in for much more than that so fast it will make your head spin. Learn the lesson that in business you have to take the cheap L and move on sometimes.

You're fucked. Settle.

I am being subjected to frequent pranks that target my autism to induce meltdowns. Frequently being screamed at and cussed out. The bullying has gotten so intense I had a customer catch me crying and ask what was wrong and she filed a formal complaint with my company. That was months ago. I have reported the harrassment repeatedly and have had coworkers comment on it as well. I requested fmla for intense emotional distress verbally on my one year mark and was told I didnt need it and again via text a week later. Now my hours have been cut because I am "being too sensitive". I have months of chat logs with my friend group where there is a detailed record of a lot of the abuse some of it with pictures. I am even being harassed off the clock via the work group chats.

Ask specifically what was deficient in the letter to find out if it was a genuine deficiency or a bad faith excuse.

Is your landlord covered under the Fair Housing Act? Presumably they are but just to make sure. The FHA exempts the following landlords:

Owner-occupied buildings with four or fewer units (e.g., a duplex where the owner lives in one unit)

Single-family homes rented without a broker if the owner owns three or fewer such homes

If it does apply to them, and they either do not respond to your request for clarification, or they do and you submit a letter that asks for what they wanted and it’s still denied, you can file a complaint with the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity.

Uh?? That’s not how that works, OP is not responsible for the upkeep of the amenities of the building and even if the landlord put that in the lease it wouldn’t be enforceable.

Finding a lawyer now is the best course, and by that I mean you are in their office/on the phone with one as soon as their office opens.

What are my child's rights concerning this?

You don't have to take your child in, I doubt you want the police to come and pick your child up, though. After that, they have a right to legal representation.

Can I ask the officer to produce documentation before I do anything? Can I ask the officer to wait until we have retained a lawyer before we do anything?

What documentation are you looking for? You can ask; they do not need to oblige if they are within their right to come get your child.

You need a lawyer to assist you in determining what is happening and in turning in your son. Hopefully these are juvenile charges and not adult charges, but a lawyer will help you navigate this and arrange for turning him in if necessary

You need a lawyer and someone to run your business for you because you are clearly bad at both.

I have and yet have received no response.

This sucks.... I know you know this now... but we play what we are told to play because it is not our event. The partial refund was your best way out of this. We all live and learn.

Your opposition (who, btw, is going to win) offered you (who cannot afford a lawyer) a get out of jail card for less than $700.

And you said no?

I see three options for you:

1. Call the attorney back, tell them you accept, and if they are still willing to settle, give them the money and hope you haven't already tanked your business with reviews and word of mouth feedback to other brides
2. Hire an attorney and...still end up paying her something because you obviously breached your contract.
3. Do not hire an attorney, sit there in silence and...still end up paying her because your breached your contract.

My therapist that I have an ongoing relationship with.

Did you ask your landlord to explain what, exactly, was wrong with the letter you provided?

My therapist that I have an ongoing relationship with. Not someone who sells ESA letters.

If they were just pocketing the money, the fee wouldn’t have gone down. 

Perhaps they negotiated a better deal.  

I see nothing out of line.

call your electrical utility company and tell them what the LL did with the electrical.

Nope, not really. Again, that's in the past. You are in a different venue, before a different judge, with different civil rules of procedure. You are being told that you need a lawyer to defend you, and the facts as you have presented them to us indicate that they have a strong likelihood of success of proving breach of contract.

I have received a letter from a medical professional stating that an animal would greatly reduce my stress and anxiety levels. 

A medical professional with whom you have an ongoing patient/provider relationship, or a medical professional who sells ESA letters on the internet?

Yer fine, they’re not coming back over some drug paraphernalia.

You didn't win. She appealed the decision and won the appeal.

How long have you worked there, how many employees does the company have, and what are you seeking FMLA leave for?

Generally speaking people simply being mean to you is not legally actionable. If you believe it’s due to a specific protected characteristic (race, gender, disability, etc.) then you can certainly look into legal assistance. What is your ultimate goal here?

by the way i’m not trying to be snarky. i’m genuinely asking. i won the first time, doesn’t that mean something?

If youve lived there the 3 months required to be a tenant, call the cops and theyll tell her she cant lock you out like that. She'll have to go through proper procedures for an eviction, however long that will take her. Just tell them "I am tenant at this address and have been illegally locked out."

If you havnt been there the required time, kick rocks. If you want to make a spiteful move with your posessions, get somewhere to put them like a storage place, tell the cops the truth of the situation and that shes trying to keep ypur posessions and would like someone on hand to keep the peace, then move your shit.

The other party likely didn't present the facts clearly enough for the judge to understand... or the judge was having an off day. Doesn't really matter, what's past is past.

I don't know. It's not unheard of that a small claims judge gets it wrong, though. That's why there's such a broad appeals process for most small claims court. You will 100% guaranteed lose your case without representation. It's going to cost you more to find a lawyer to defend yourself than it would have been to give her the partial refund she asked for. 

This is cost of doing business. You should know the exact cost of what it will take to defend a suit every time you're sued in the course of your business and make a smart decisions about what is going to cost you more in the long run, a refund or defending the suit.

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Yes, you no longer talk to the police as you are a suspect and nothing you say to them can help you.

Not a lawyer, but: SETTLE. Settle now. Settle for whatever you have to pay. By your own admittance, you are in breach of contract, so yes, you are cooked. Settle before you have to appear in court again, because you will lose, especially if you don't show up with a lawyer to defend you.

I would contact the other lawyer, say that you didn't properly understand the offer and that upon reflection, you would like to accept the offer to settle. Don't be surprised if they now deny (because you already deny) and want to take this all the way, because they seem to have a pretty solid case.

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

It's a two year difference. You could make the argument if he was five years older, but they're basically peers when it comes to ages. 

Nothing is inappropriate or unethical with their ages and consent; only if they had sex tapes from when she was 17.

Then why did I win the first time?

I like the way you think!

Thank you for this response. I think this is the best course of action..to pull the full medical record.

I agree with the last sentence. And it probably wouldn’t be worth the stress either.

NAL. 

You are a jackass

Someone hires you, clearly explains their desire for their event to have their music played. 

You AGREE. 

Then decide you know better what will make her wedding day better. 

She asks for a PARTIAL refund and you say no.  

You claim you were worried about your reputation.  What happens when people find out you don’t care what the client wants and just do your own thing?  

Settle, learn your lesson, move on.

I'm a landlord in IL. One of my units powers a "shared" outdoor light and I am required by law to disclose that to the tenant ins that unit. Tenants can be required to pay for shared utilities outside of their unit if they are informed and agree to it.

Like others have said, small claims is they way to go to try and claw back some of the money. As part of that process, it would be in your favor to calculate out what you feel you are owed and ask the landlord to either pay it or discount rent until you are made whole. Courts like it when you attempt to resolve things before bringing suit.

Renegotiating the rent amount to make up for the extra electric moving forward.

1) Then the trial will continue without you being able to represent your business, and a default judgment will be entered

2) That is certainly strong evidence that you agreed to provide a specific service and then didn’t do it. 

3) A default judgment will likely be entered and the plaintiff will be awarded damages and perhaps court costs and legal fees.

-What if I still don't show up with a lawyer?

You will sit there and have a case prosecuted against you without you being able to defend yourself. The rules are the rules, no exceptions. 

-The plaintiff has screenshots of the texts that showed I agreed to play her playlist, AND now has a lawyer. Am I cooked?

You've been cooked the second you agreed to play her playlist and then didn't. You breached your contract with her. 

-If my LLC fails to appear with counsel at the next hearing, what is the likely outcome?

You are going to get a judgment against you for whatever amount they want and the judge deems fit to give them. That may even include attorneys fees at this point because you're purposefully dragging out litigation and needlessly costing her money.

Moreover, you're likely going to get a bad reputation around town for (1) being a DJ that doesn't play the songs the people hire you to play and (2) making people drag you into court for refunds.

Thank you! I just hate being filmed without permission you know?

dont have property with someone not married to. Let everytrhung be in his name ALL of it and you pay some rent.

Technically it can be considered legal. But… that’s more for people there voluntarily.  

Tell your boss you aren’t comfortable and either you want to be rescheduled or not filmed.

I'm sorry this happened to you. To confirm what a lot of other people have said, cops are lazy and they lie, because they can. Sounds like a miserable situation. I'd keep copies of every aspect of proof you have regarding your movements that day. If it's not too late, maybe a drug test. If you can, while memories are fresh, ask people around you who know to account for your time, maybe a short video. Put all this stuff in a file and then ignore it. Anyone who reaches out from law inforcement who wants you to "help them out" make them go the legal route. Maybe make a 'statement" show proof to your employer. Don't sit in a room with those goofballs again unless you are compelled to by law and if that happens than hire an attorney. (Keeping in mind attornys kind of suck, too). Good luck!

Yeah if an electrician already confirmed it and the landlord still thinks fifty bucks fixes two years of overcharges, I'd be talking to every tenant rights group I could find.

What are your speeds?

Family lawyer… yes probably the one you used for your divorce.

I wasn't talking about the videos, but if they did anything together before then

NAL.

Look into renter's protection laws for Illinois, and contact an actual lawyer.

Illinois renters are protected from retaliation.

They would have to prove them not renewing your lease has nothing to do with this issue, that is if you want to let it go that far.
This all depends on where you live, and the local rules and laws.

There's also risks associated with having everything on a non-communally accessible breaker, as it's on yours and not a separate breaker.
They can't just turn off the power to the machines if it's needed. 
It can also cause issues if the machines break and knock out your breaker.

There are rules in the NFPA that require communal appliances to be on a dedicated breaker.

As for the money: sadly enough, it's most likely not a big enough amount to make it worth pursuing it. 

You will likely spend more money on all the needed counsil and other associated costs.

Again: I'm not a lawyer!!!

But I hope these can help you find actual legal recourse.

TLDR; there are laws that protect you from retaliation, and there are rules in the NFPA that should convince your landlord to redo the wiring.
Please look for legal counsil, specialized in renter protection.

Typically genetic testing is recommended for recurrent pregnancy loss, late term loss or if there is history of genetic disorders. It seems unlikely that your wife’s physician did not meet standard of care.

Mom has been told this by everyone who has heard about it but still is probably going to put the daughters on the deed.

This is not a good idea.  It is putatively inflicting harm on other tenants and could be the basis for a counter-suit by management or a claim that OP has breached the lease by e.g. making a nuisance for other tenants.  OP is best to just figure out what their damages are.

She wants to be able to vote on the HOA board. Apparently that's a good enough reason for mom.

It would be cheaper for you to just order the testing for you and your wife than attempt to litigate off of a verbal conversation (did you pull the medical records - if so, did they mention that convo in their clinical notes?) Regardless a lawyer would be much more expensive than this is worth (as no lawyer would take this on contingency for obvious reasons). Now if you pull the records and it states clearly they agreed to do that testing then I’d say you could reach out to the hospital with that info and request they cover your costs for the genetic testing and see what they say. Not sure you’ll get a favorable response but suing them seems like it would be not financially feasible

These issues you are describing are not acceptable. You need a new lawyer. In terms of getting back your retainer it depends on the contract you signed, some lawyers have refundable retainers and some are not-refundable.

You're going to be better off driving. But you would really be best served by speaking with a criminal defense attorney about what your next steps should be regarding the warrant. That thing isn't going away.

Ddadopt implied he didn't have much of a case

I implied no such thing, and I don't see how you could believe so (unless you somehow think the word "contested" means anything other than "adversarial").  I said you were giving terrible advice, and you were.  OP's STBXW will only get the things she's demanding if he rolls over and takes it or if there are additional circumstances that bear on the divorce/custody that he isn't telling us.  Going unrepresented contributes to the "rolling over and taking it" part.

I think he's intelligent enough to know his own business to fill out required forms and show up for required hearings, has a military veteran background, so unless he's hiding something, he has no reason to think he's going to get destroyed in court.

But obviously Reddit doesn't feel the same. They want to doubt him.

It's nothing to do with "intelligence" or "doubting him" it's the fact that, as a layman, his understanding the law will be imperfect at best which is going to impact the outcome of his case.  The court will likely be patient with him as a pro se litigant but, and here's the important part, cannot and will not ***assist*** him in any way--he will fight things that don't need to be fought while ignoring things that are absolutely critical.

TWO unrepresented parties in divorce, presuming they can agree on basics, can "fill out the forms and show up for required hearings" and come to the mutually agreed dissolution (though some states will not allow them to if there are children in the mix).  But when the parties are ***this*** far apart?  And the unreasonable one has representation?  Going without his own attorney does nothing but lead OP to getting destroyed.  OP needs to be on an equal footing with STBXW in order to protect his interests.

Ask for the prices of the broken stone first, just to make sure they actually broke it. Sounds real scammy

1. Go to Walmart or on Amazon get you «  Harris roach tablets » and « Advion Cockroach gel bait insecticide »

2. Go to your local courthouse, and ask if there is a court that takes care of tenants /landlord issues 

3. Ask for help from your state housing authority (you can find them online)

I know for sure California does have courts and rules and law enforcement for tenants /landlord issues 

Good luck

First, if you want more than your $50 back, it's quite possible you will need to take the landlord to small claims court.  If you accept the $50 you may waive your ability to sue.  So decide. Court is never certain.

You do not need to act today.  You can sue any time up until the statute of limitations would provide a defense to your landlord and property-management.

Since your lease is up for renewal shortly, decide whether you want to stay or go.  If you want to stay, don't make a fuss yet - you have at least arguably satisfied your duty to mitigate damages by bringing the issue to attention of management... make sure you document that you have done so.  

Then renew your lease, and wait until after it is renewed to make more of a fuss.   

Second, gather data.  For example, figure out how much electricity some number of loads of laundry take (e.g. do your laundry, watch your meter with all your other breakers off), then count how many loads of laundry get done in a week in your building. 

Write this down.   That would be "evidence" of about how much electricity, per week, you have been charged for.   

Then decide whether to file in small claims and possibly not have the lease renewed at the end of its (next) period, or suck it up.

Yeah this should be higher up - glass is awful to step on, but having hugely increased lead levels is a worse long-term problem

Assuming that everything you've said here is truthful, you should be fine. If that video was never spread by you to anyone without your gf's consent, there's no revenge porn crime or sexual harassment. Furthermore, a diagnosis of depression does not make one incapable of consenting to sexual acts. Don't communicate with her parents and tell the lawyer assisting you with your asylum claim what happened.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Me just thinking about all the little grass spiders with their shiny spider eyes... 😥

Yes! WELL said! I was even thinking take the phone out and snap some pictures.

Y’all are sooo close - the real thing we need to ask ourselves is, is the relationship *appropriate* and no, it’s not, she probably is just about to graduate high school and he’ll be able to legally enter bars next bday. NAL but a survivor… yeah probably legally safe - ethically though, OP needs to leave the girl alone anyways… parents are right to be upset.

Empty your fridge and freezer, and start leaving the breaker off for extended periods. They'll get the hint quicker from your neighbors inability to do laundry!

I’m curious what the law is that makes them liable for not doing a test and would mean you are owed damages?

If I were you, I would file a claim with my insurance. They will get your car fixed a lot quicker than waiting on the liability insurance of the store to sort you out. Then your insurance company will go back against the stores insurance to collect the amount they paid out along with your deductible. This will not count as an asphalt accident against you for future insurance rates.

Your rates won’t increase from an accident that isn’t your fault, even if your insurance company ends up paying.

100000% this. CP laws do not generally care about if the relationship is legal. There are tons of examples of two teenagers taking naked pictures of themselves and sending them to each other being charged with distribution and/or production of CP. Usually when a parent finds out and goes apeshit, like this example.

For OP's sake, I sincerely hope no videos were taken of any minors.

Basically, if the law doesn't designate glass to be *not* a hazardous substance or define the terms hazardous and/or substance to not include glass, then if the sellers put glass under the hazardous substances, they'd be able to make an argument that their disclosure was valid.

this is illegal for the landlord to do

Start sabotaging peoples loads after they start and you will have an angry mob behind you 😂

I'm assuming that includes redirecting and further communication from the police to my insurance?

Alert your insurance for attempted fraud.

I was teaching my young teenage sons about yard care. The fertilizer spreader was too heavy for my youngest, tipped over, and spilled its contents on the lawn. I scooped up as much as I could manage and then used a shop vac to get the rest. 

I felt like a real idiot, but it worked!

[hank_hill.jpg]

NAL

Get an attorney ASAP.  Your atty will be behind the curve since the hearing happened and you have a July date to liquidate.  Why did you not file an insurance claim to handle this?  Your grandfather did have insurance, didn't he?

But put a few notes around the apartment in cupboards and backs of closets that tell the new tenants what’s happening.

Thank you. I’m having difficulty even reaching anybody at their company, so I may need to contact my insurance agent. I was worried about rate hikes, as I’ve never even been in a car accident before. I appreciate the help.

Find an employment lawyer. Do not sign anything unless they tell you to or that you don't have a case.

Your insurance company will fight on your behalf. They’re not eager to payout on an accident you didn’t cause, and they have a team of lawyers who are experienced with this. You should contact your insurance company to discuss how they’ll handle it.

So it’s not even your kid? Let the parents handle it. This isn’t yours to fix

Talk to a lawyer today!!! 
Do NOT talk to the police. 
They are NOT your friend!

Something to try: go rent a walk-behind, gas-powered lawn/litter vacuum. 

Rake a manageable-sized patch with a fine-toothed rake to pull up the fine shards, then vacuum the patch in two different directions. If it works, then you'll need to BUY a lawn vacuum and vacuum in two directions every time you mow (with a bagger)

You might also try hollow core aerification, then rake, then vacuum repeatedly. 

Yes, yard vacuums exist:

Social security benefits for minors stop at 18 unless they’re still in high school as you were (in which case they end at 19 no matter what) or if they qualify under disability

With multiple children on benefits, you may have previously been capped at the family maximum benefit, with you dropping off not affecting anything but your sister also becoming ineligible may have decreased payments

Ex: You were collectively eligible for $4k. Maximum family benefit is $3k. When you stopped being eligible, let’s say $1k of money “left”, but that still leaves you at $3k

When your sister also becomes ineligible, that drops to $2k

I had a similar scare when my son caused an accident on my policy. In a community property state like Arizona, your house could be at risk even if your name is not on the deed because the asset is considered marital property.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. **Do not make a second post.** Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

How long after a sale would one be able to take this route?

Basically this. The Illinois State Bar Association's site has information and links for renters available here, which should point you in the right direction to get this remedied legally. You'll probably have to sue in small claims to get your money back, and you'll need to spend a bit of time to figure out your actual damages.

Expect your lease to not get renewed. You shouldn't be evicted for this (and Illinois has laws protecting renters against retaliatory eviction for reporting them to state authorities), but I don't see any protections for automatic lease renewals. I'm not sure who your best bet is to contact for this, but I'd probably start with the state AG's office - if it's not them, they can point you in the right direction.

If you two both live in the same building, the court isn't likely going to be sticklers about the custody/visitation order as much as they would with parents who live further away from each other. It's hard argument to make that you aren't alienated a parent that literally lives feet from you if they want to pop up and say hey to the kids for a minute or two. This is especially true if they have minimal visitation.

Yeah maybe good point. Depends on if he's being honest in his post. Life experience tells me he isn't but it's the internet. What the fuck do I know?

I know in the states I've worked (Ma/RI/NY) things like this should fall under reasonable accommodations, but the proper paperwork needs to be filed to protect you. 

I would under the impression that since this is not written, they could just terminate you with nothing.

This is what you have to prove for medical malpractice.
1. The healthcare provider owed the patient a duty of care.
2. The provider failed to meet the accepted standard of care.
3. That failure directly caused harm.
4. The patient suffered actual damages that cost money and measurable harm (injury, additional costs, disability, etc.). Emotional suffering is not enough unless you have therapy bills to back that up.
A poor outcome alone is also not enough; there must be negligence that resulted in damages. Potentially could say harm was caused by losing valuable information about future pregnancies.

I doubt a renewal is on the table anyways.

The lord must be gooder (sic) in Italy. I pay €24.99 (\~$30).  Does God love Italians twice as much?

If you want to continue living there, id wait until after you sign the renewal. If you do this now, they may not offer you a renewal and you'll have the hassle/cost of moving.

Once you have a signed lease, id email the LL with the report from the electrician. If he refuses to fix it, then go to a tenants union.

I'm not sure what law firm you used, but $8000 is egregious for a demand letter. That firm needs to be reported to the state bar.

I highly doubt 8k was just for a demand letter. It's way more likely that was the retainer for them to represent OP for the case itself and the demand letter was the start of the case. A lot of lawyers aren't willing to *just* write a demand letter, especially that pride themselves in their work. They don't send out idle threats. They send a letter with authority behind it to do what they've threatened to do in the letter.

Contact PennDOT immediately. Not only is this incredibly illegal but also fraud. This dipshit is putting every employee at risk not to mention people's lives.

I’d Google which government entity in your city inspects apartments and report it to them.

Catfish isn't a crime. Lying in regular life isn't fraud, she didn't lie to the government. Him lying about his age doesn't really matter, what does matter is he sent nudes to a minor, that's a crime and *only* on his part. It doesn't matter if she's 17 or 14 or even 2 years old, sending it to anyone under 18 is a crime. 

Catfishing *can* be a crime, if you black mail the person or are doing it to stalk someone but lying about who you are online itself isn't a crime.

The buyer's predatory behavior is so frustrating.

Report this to the Colorado AG and Colorado Division of Real Estate. Consider reporting to the FTC and CFPB - the person you named and their company have already been sued so with predatory behavior iimpacting people in multiple states they might eventually pursue them. Also file a police report locally. It's unlikely anything will come from it, but it creates an official record which could prove useful later.

Reach out to the plaintiffs and law firms of prior cases against the buyer. They may be willing to share info with you that will be useful. It's also possible that learning about you will help them in pursuing the buyer in those matters and even possible that the law firms will be willing to provide you guidance (the cases are in California). See:

if you call the utility with the electrician in the room, maybe you can get someone nice who will refund you and charge their account?

I would say don't do it, it's a "cosmetic surgery" in a way.

Not sure if laws are the same in our two states but in PA this is called an Act 54 violation. Report it to the utility who will come out and do an inspection. When they see common area or is on one residential meter, they will post it and transfer all billing and usage charges to the landlord until the issue is fixed and inspected.

Post delivery when we were discussing services/cremation and the following steps our convo went as follows.

“We would like to have the genetic testing done”
“Okay we’ll have that done”

This was with both the “doctor” and nurse. 

It is very common for tissue to be collected from the fetus. And it was agreed upon by everyone that it would be done

I thought the payments for kids stopped at 18 unless they were still in school then it went to 19 or if they have a qualifying disability it's 22.
Your parents may need to call ss and double check.

Contact an attorney in the state that you were visiting.

If the disclosure leads to an actual unsafe work environment then that absolutely could be grounds for a employment lawsuit,

What law provides for that grounds?

No protecting an employee from retaliation is illegal. 

What law mandates that employers protect their employees from non-employment retaliation from coworkers?

You are bringing too much emotion into this. I know it’s hard not to. It’s a financial transaction, and your father still owns the account, not your brother. You should not call. There’s no reason for MS to talk to you. Have your dad call
And request the transfer.

Can’t your father just request the funds be released? Can you do this with him online? Or print the transfer form, help him fill it out, and mail it in. 

Long term though, this will continue to be a problem. Your father should add you as an account owner.

The reason for my post was because they the hospital failed to uphold what they had verbally agreed to.

I'm confused. What did they promise to do?

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

turn off circuit breaker while LL,s laundry is in the wash.

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Thank you for the response. I’m aware the hospital did nothing to contribute to the loss of the baby. 

The reason for my post was because they the hospital failed to uphold what they had verbally agreed to.

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Yes you would get title back because the title transfer was contingent on you receiving payment. That's what I assume your contract to say. I'm not sure what your contract says. You may have blindly transferred title without any conditions on the contract.

Go to multiple law firms and get an estimate.

Why did that happen

No clue.

what can I do about it?

Contact SSA and find out what happened.

You said I could get the title back? Is that even a thing? I signed lots of papers with escrow before closing. Its escrows fault for putting it in the contract that 50% of funds goes back to buyer. I overlooked it on the paperwork unfortunately otherwise I would've never agreed to that. Whats the point of escrow if they weren't representing me but only the buyers interest when its up to them to prevent this bs.

Why did that happen and what can I do about it?

So, what's your question?

The reality of that law is that anyone can basically have anything they own taken if the law suspects it can be used as evidence. It's a dumb law and frankly you don't need to bring it to the bank for that to happen.

No, managers are not at all entitled to know an employees private health information.

If you're that sure about it, point me to the law that says that.

I dont have 30 - 50 grand to sue. Thats what Robinson and Henry said they needed in order to sue but wouldn't do it contingent. I agree they should be investigated as well. I paid alot of money for nothing with that law firm.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. **Do not make a second post.** Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. **Do not make a second post.** Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Wrong Subreddit**

We are a US and Canadian based subreddit and are unable to help with legal questions involving the laws of other countries. You may want to try one of the following subs:

r/LegalAdviceUK

r/LegalAdviceEurope

r/AusLegal

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Wrong Subreddit**

We are a US and Canadian based subreddit and are unable to help with legal questions involving the laws of other countries. You may want to try one of the following subs:

r/LegalAdviceUK

r/LegalAdviceEurope

r/AusLegal

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Wrong Subreddit**

We are a US and Canadian based subreddit and are unable to help with legal questions involving the laws of other countries. You may want to try one of the following subs:

r/LegalAdviceUK

r/LegalAdviceEurope

r/AusLegal

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

I wish. The house was flipped and sold already. A family just recently moved in it appears. The company I sold the house to sold it before closing with me. If that makes any sense.

Time to find a new place to live. You'll likely be able to force the land Lord to redo the wiring by going through the utility company or some sort of building inspector. Maybe that will be enough to convince your LL that he needs to pay you back. Based on what you've said your LL will refuse to pay you back unless you go to small claims court. One way or the other you're costing them money. You've become a problem. Push your case and find a new place.

I am so sorry for your loss. At 17 weeks low amniotic fluid is an indicator that your baby wasn't able to urinate or it could be genetic. As unfortunate as this incident is, I dont believe you can sue..they are not responsible for the death of your baby and you and your wife and can get genetic testing done to predict further anomalies before you plan to try again. It would have been helpful to get it done on your baby, but testing baby isn't the only indicator.

They need time to investigate but should provide you with a rental in the mean time. Otherwise your own insurance can give you a rental if that’s part of your policy and they can go after the store to be reimbursed

Not a lawyer at all… but couldn’t you put a lien on the house? Check with a lawyer or maybe real estate pro… sorry and good luck!!!

NAL. Identify which breaker(s) run the laundry room and turn them off until you need to do some laundry and then turn them back off. 

It won't fix your back owed money, but it'll get all the other tenants on the landlord. Especially if they see you can do laundry and they can't.

You cant afford not to hire an attorney

I mean, I don’t know how the law sees it in terms of real estate, but I work in laboratories where every hazard is labeled and classified to the nth degree for safety. Broken glass gets its own separate containers and disposal systems in every lab room I’ve worked in because of the danger it poses.

damn that's some serious bullshit they're pulling after 15 years, especially when you literally lost everything in fire that was their fault. you definitely need lawyer for this - debt collectors love to go after people who don't show up to court and get default judgments without the person even knowing about it. don't go in there alone trying to explain everything yourself, they'll just steamroll you

I'm not sure what law firm you used, but $8000 is egregious for a demand letter. That firm needs to be reported to the state bar.

Secondly, what happened to the title? Did you actually transfer the title of the property? I assume the contract you signed indicated X dollars for the title to the property. If the purchaser didn't uphold the deal and you transferred the title, then you need to reverse the title transfer.

Saying you're poor and looking for help on reddit isn't going to help. It sounds like you got scammed and you need to sue. This is going to be ugly. You can sue for attorneys fees in addition to all the other costs and chaos. This assumes this company still exists. You may be out a bunch of money to get the title back.

You can attempt to fight this pro se (without a lawyer) but that's highly not recommended.

Good lord it’s a standard internet cost

If you mean messaged via Reddit, be very careful about assuming those messages are from real attorneys. Messaging people who post here isn’t allowed either.

Filed report with Colorado AG and FTC but CFPB doesnt apply.

NAL but I’m pretty sure if she was 17 it would be considered CP. even if it’s a relationship recording it would be illegal.

What are the chances their insurance will try to low-ball me to protect their pockets? I also don’t really have the funds to go out of pocket and wait for a reimbursement if that’s what they want to do.

The stores insurance should pay for it, only get your insurance involved if they refuse to pay

Then if the landlord tells you to turn it on so they can do laundry ask for a letter stating why he wants you to turn your breaker back on.

Thank you. It just sucks cause I was 23 when I first reported the abuse.

While this is true, if no survey was done at purchase, the title insurance likely has an exception because there was no survey to prove property lines and it may not cover this.

I’m confused on being married in Utah even online when you’re a French citizen, not us, and she’s also Mongolian who I would assume and correct me if I’m wrong, not in the us either? I’m guessing a way to marry and cheat or by pass certain immigration processes?

I am ! In Utah at least, and France recognizes it exist under Utah laws but won’t acknowledge it for the immigration purposes in France

Unfortunately your civil recourse has timed out and no longer exists  and you can't force law enforcement to act.  

That's it as far as legal recourses go.

You need to invest your time, money and effort into getting over this through counseling or the like because there is no legal recourse  left to you here.

Where do you plan to live ?

I see now, maybe not bigamy, but is it still illegal ?

I don’t need to be resident ?

We want to stay together ! I’m down to just marry that same person again once !

You just need an immigration attorney

It’s not about the marriages, it’s about the number of different people married to. If you’re married to the same person twice, you aren’t married to two different people.

I heard annulment was complicated to prove. Also I would then need to transcribe the annulment to French government ? But that means I should transcribe as well the marriage that was took place ?
That’s why I’m wondering if I can just ignore this situation altogether and get remarried same person

Your wife is in Mongolia and is a Mongolian citizen. She has previously lived in Ireland.

You are a French citizen, living in France.

You "married" remotely in Utah.

You're trying to obtain a visa & residence permit for your wife to come to France and stay there.

I'd start with an immigration lawyer

Kinda in a quandary there.   No one in my opinion is serious about marriage when they do it over zoom, as you can see here with this couple.   Was it an attempt for one of you to get legal status in the others country?

Doesn't that mean you and your wife/girlfriend can live together under directive 2004/38/EC? She would join you as a family member of an EU citizen.

Like everyone said, they have no legal way to make this a problem for you. But... if your family is working with an immigration attorney, or any immigrant aid organization, definitely let them know what's going on.

I did that but nothing come of that so far. Unfortunately. I told the FBI last year but when I went to therapy/ rehab for trying to “unalive myself”, the police have known since 2015. I just think with my mental health and how long I’ve been in therapy and rehabs, they should know something happened to me.

Yes.   You can sue your subtenant in small claims court for the owed rent in the jurisdiction where the rental property is located.

I’m maybe over complicating the problem, but everyone (including  lawyers) gives contracting opinions about whether this “remarrying same person” is an issue or not. Guess I will have to try and find out

So you are married in a country neither of you live in? How in the heck does this work

ngl I feel for you both but this is peak legal absurdity. like two consenting adults agreeing to divorce and the system just goes “nah, try again in 3 countries”

They said it’s legal in Utah but not recognized as legal in France. You are really over complicating this whole thing. There’s no need to divorce if you are marrying the same person. Just get married in a way France will recognize as legal and move forward in the immigration process.

Keeping your main breaker off is a powerful move because it forces the landlord to face the consequences of his actions when all the other tenants start complaining that they cannot use the laundry facilities.

I will add that to my list for tomorrow morning. The way he brushed me off with that fifty dollar credit made it clear he thinks I am a pushover. Getting a formal report from a building inspector seems like the best way to prove this is not just some minor mistake. I am already sitting in the dark with my breaker off, so I might as well go all in on the documentation. Hopefully a city report will give me enough leverage to avoid a messy court battle.

No I haven’t had the marriage recognized in any other countries. Just I tried to file for transcription of marriage of Utah but ultimately it was rejected, although they do acknowledge that it valid in Utah
My worry is now it’s in their systems, and say for Utah you are legally valid. I’m maybe overthinking this but want to talk best route

You were never married. What’s the problem?

Chances are that no one is taking your case because you likely no longer have any pursuable civil case.  In New Mexico you have until age 24 or 3 years after disclosing the abuse to a mental health professional to file a civil action.  

But regardless of any civil claims this is something you should be reporting to the police in the jurisdiction where the abuse occurred.
The statute of limitations for criminal actions should allow for prosecution.

You should call the local building inspector to get an official report of the illegal wiring before you file a case in small claims court for the full amount.

Good call. I am going to look into how ComEd handles these violations in Illinois. If I can get an official technician out here to confirm what the electrician saw, it would be hard for the landlord to keep ignoring me.

Somehow forgot that exists lol. Will do

Your best bet is probably to call the Ashford Town Court and ask if they will allow you to pay another way given your international status. Worst case you may have to pay international mail fees to mail it back to NY.

Thats a good idea. Ill definitely try that.

Shop vac the entire yard

That’s my plan remarrying in Mongolia than transcribing in France ! France does acknowledge that the marriage abroad is valid to Utah laws if they were presented with my marriage certificate . As I am still still married in Utah

I cant afford an attorney, it would have to be a contingent one and those are hard to find in realestate cases apparently because Ive tried a few here in my city and nobody does them. Also I dont really know how to report like that. I tried the Federal realestate division and they couldnt find the company in their system and same with Colorado Realestate. Nobody could find this Justin Dillon or anything with Pinpoint Offers USA registered. Im kinda young and very dumb.

Contact your utility provider immediately to report a shared meter violation as they usually take utility theft very seriously.

You might want to contact RAINN or a tribal legal aid organization - they often have more resources for cases like this than regular attorneys.

Almost certainly no. Juvenile records are pretty closely guarded.

It’s only bigamy if you’re marrying multiple people. You would be marrying the same person multiple times.

Get it from a other state like Nevada. Not sure of thats the right state...you will have to research but you can get one online.

Can you go to a third country and get married there... Then divorce?

You could try a few other law firms. Most will do a free consultant to see if they want to take the case. Then you could try and negotiate payment based on settlement. Or ask the CA one if they have another law firm in CA they recommend since they can’t represent you.

Thank you for your advice.

This sounds like Utah should annul your marriage.

Within United States, there is a federal law (which has existed since founding) that states must recognize another state's laws based on their residency. Basically, one state cannot grant someone something that the state that they are residents of would otherwise ban.

Back before the SCOTUS declared that gay marriage was constitutional, there was a whole thing about same sex couples going to California to get married, then finding out their state of residence didn't recognize their marriage, and so their marriage was null and void. This sounds like a similar situation.

In Florida, sealed juvenile records are generally not publicly accessible, and only a court (or limited agencies) can unseal them.

Yesyou can send a formal legal notice yourself or via low-cost legal aid, and also request removal of your name + damages for harassment, depending on proof.

If he was repeatedly vomiting, losing weight, and unable to keep medications down, those are definitely things I'd expect to be documented and communicated to both the family and his doctors. Right now I'd focus on getting the full facility records, medication logs, nursing notes, and weight records. The records should help show whether staff were aware of the symptoms and what, if anything, was done about them.

You need a real estate litigation attorney + file a complaint with Colorado AG + CFPB + FTC immediately.

Impossible car un mariage en ligne n'est pas reconnu

You need a lawyer that does divorces for military and he'll be familiar with VA and how it all works.

It means it must be postmarked (or filed) within 10 days, not received.

Wait so you would be remarrying the same person ? If so that's not bygamy  that's just getting married to the same person in multiple jurisdictions. No way they could prosecute that. Now marrying another person with a open marriage that would be bygamy and probably look like some kind of immigration fraud to do with marriage

The 529 funds belong to your Dad unless a court has ordered them transferred to your daughter. If the POA included control over your Dad's finances, this places your brother in control of all of your Dad's funds. 

Has that happened?

Report it through compliance/ethics hotline or hospital compliance office

I tried reporting them to the BBB but they rejected my complaint and then I noticed a few months after which is recently now their BBB profile says they arent in business potentially but their website is still up and they are still taking inquiries and buying homes. I didnt know you could buy a home and sell it to another company prior to closing. Sounds fishy.

I’m thinking now of not even divorcing anymore, just remarrying since it’s the same person in Mongolia , although I will need to speak with my lawyers about this

From their response it says “ while the procureur recognizes it as valid in Utah by Utah rules, we could not proceed to its transcription due to incompatibility with French rules “ basically. They don’t outright reject that the marriage is legal abroad

The general rule is that documents must be in the clerk's hand by the deadline, but exceptions can apply.

Not sure what my lawyers tried. I hired Robinson and Henry based out of Denver. They were absolutely no help. I asked for my file and its just full of public info on my property and all my documents I supplied them. They attempted to go after the escrow company but failed and billed me for it even after I told them in the beginning its in the contract the funds go back to the buyer to release to me the seller upon vacating the property. The lawyers did advise me to file a complaint with the department of real estate but they couldnt find the company. I tried reporting them to the state of Colorado and they couldnt find the company either. I will definitely look into that FBI reporting you mentioned but yeah I actually got ahold of one of the lawfirms in California sueing him and they couldn't help me since they are representing the interest of another party.

I lived almost 2 years with her in Dublin

Glad to hear there’s a chance this might work

You seem to not be married in France.  Maybe not married anywhere but the united states, as these online marriages are becoming more and more a problem and not accepted.

So basically, in France your not married.  So no need for a divorce.   Did you have the marriage recongized in Mongolia or any other country you that need a divorce decree to fix a problem or something ? Religious reasons ?

Basically I'm asking what's the purpose of the divorce decree besides breaking a union they the French govement dosnt recognize? 

United states dosnt report marriages at a federal level. Just a state level.  So they aren't telling anyone you got married unless you are.

I'm not saying commit bygomy or anything but as it stands France has said your marriage dosnt exist in their jurisdiction.  Are you tried to get married again or free your wife/ex-wife from some kind of paperwork burden ?    Guam is a relatively easy us territory to get a divorce in . If you have the funds take a trip.  They recognize the Utah marriage and can issue a divorce decree.

Maybe bigamy is the wrong word ! But there may still a legal issue at hand

A life insurance policy isn't like a lottery ticket. It's not like whoever finds it can turn it in and take the money. The policy would have defined beneficiaries who would receive payment. Who was the executor of her estate? That person may have more answers. 

Are you saying that the policy was cancelled prior to her death and someone took that money? In that case, you will have a lot harder time figuring it out. The insurance company isn't going to disclose any record on who requested cancellation, even if they still have record of that detail.

this. i get why she's terrified but ppl seriously overestimate how much it ruins the victim's life and underestimate how hard it can come back on the person posting it. dude would be insanely stupid.

Sorry to hear you are going through this OP. Looking at the Better Business Bureau website they list 4 other people under Business Management other than Just Dillon. Did your lawyer try them as well?  BBB also has an alert the business is suspended or closed. Based on the reviews you are not the only one it happened too. 
You could also try the Internet Crime Complaint Center with the FBI if this was all done online. They investigate online fraud and scams and try to recover lost funds.

Can you go to mongolia and get divorced there?

Didn't you say it failed because it's not considered valid in France?

Does France recognize the marriage as legal or not?

If not then you're not married as far as France is concerned so get married somewhere France would recognize.

Have you ever met your wife?

I think you are overcomplicating it. I know people that got married in exotic country, this was not recognised in my country (EU) so they got married in civil service after returning, no issues. 
I think issues start if you marry different person, but not marrying the same.

Do be stupid, lawyer up . It’s going to save you money in the long run

He’s using this as a way to control you. Document and screen shot all these interactions. Put them all in one place in case you need them later. If he were to release it, file a police report. Revenge porn is a crime in CA.  There’s a website with some good info called StopNCII.org. 

On a personal note… don’t give him satisfaction of him controlling you and making you miserable. Don’t show any signs of weakness to him. I know this is easier said than done. Cut off contact completely. If he’s using alternate accounts to communicate with you on social media, think about taking a break from socials.

Is it possible he would stoop to making deepfakes of you? Warning your friends that you have an ex that might share deepfakes might be more palatable to you. 

Of course, if he does share anything any friends that were warned might be more willing to help you report it to police and facebook or any other platform it was shared to. And if they quickly report it it'll get banned faster and have less of an effect.

Oh you mean you know people who have been married in Utah and abroad simultaneously, not through transcription but actual ceremonies ?

My question is will they find this Utah transcription application that previously failed and would it then affect her immigration application

My state doesn’t have Filial Laws on the books, but this sort of bs makes me glad I grew up in foster care.

If I did show them the Utah mariage certificate, they would recognize I’m married abroad. It’s just in their system ( like the birth certificate which shows my status) I’m not

You’ll probably do better posting on a French sub, I don’t think people here will know enough about French law.

I‘m not a lawyer anywhere, but the definition of bigamy refers to marrying different people.

My first instinct would be a divorce attorney, possibly an immigration attorney.

How would marriages to the SAME person be considered different people?

Everyone is married in Utah. It’s fine

You are completely wrong. I know because I worked in the homeowner's insurance industry for 15 years, and handled tons of claims related to cars hitting houses. It's actually quite common.

The standard homeowner's policy in the US (which essentially everyone has) is all-peril for the structure of the home. That means it covers all sudden and accidental damages EXCEPT the expressly excluded ones.

What you are describing is named-peril coverage. This is incredibly rare for houses themselves but can often be seen on contents coverage (the stuff inside your home).

Furthermore an insurance company will subrogate any and every loss they can. They have entire departments specifically for this. The reason is because subrogation is how they get THIER momey back. They are not suing out of the goodness of thier heart, or to help you out as the homeowner, the subrogate to get back what they paid in the claim.

But France doesn't consider you married.

You're in in Utah, nor going to Utah. If France doesn't recognize it, then why even bring it up?

Marry in France, marry in Mongolia, or anywhere else that France recognizes.

Easiest way is to move when your lease is up. Get a new apartment, move into it and don't let him in. He can find his own way without you.

You wouldn’t be remarrying if it’s the same person, it sounds like it would just be making sure it was thoroughly done. It would only be an issue if you wanted to marry someone else. Then you would need to be sure so you didn’t commit bigamy.

Schrodinger's nuptials?

Talk with a bankruptcy attorney to find out the truth about “losing benefits.”

Not in America, as Mongolian it’s extremely difficult

Yeah, next step is to find the right lawyer. What type of lawyer exactly ?

I’m no lawyer but I believe other American states will recognize the Utah marriage.  Perhaps one of the other 49 states with different residency requirements will grant you a divorce. Is your wife willing to relocate temporarily in order to get the divorce?

they have to take action before the damage is done imprisoning him will not solve her reputation because that could flame it more

I need a lawyer to tell me what I should say exactly I think

Hope being honest doesn’t come up biting me in the ass, if I say I did get married then they might ask for documents and then say why nothing was registered in France

this is what I hear in my asmr sessions and it works for me at least

Yes small claims court is the other route to go.  Trying to avoid that if at all possible.  I just want to drive the darn thing.  Thanks for your feedback, it’s greatly appreciated.

I’m not an attorney, and have zero experience with French law, but I wouldn’t see two marriages between the same two people as bigamy.  Ask a French attorney to define all the parameters you’re dealing with, then make a plan.

Maybe the French government when I will apply for immigration and birth certificate records no mariage or divorce but they see a Utah marriage file in their systems , they like nitpicking and if they try hard enough, they can make it a bit harder

I have the appostilled mariage certificate

Also just did 2 month in Thailand, visa-free is nice 👍

Do you have the government issued licence?

We thought the process would be easy, but French immigration would have it other way

Go be a Mormon for a few months lol

We lived 1 year and a half in Dublin

I guess that could work, but Utah recognizes jt as valid so I should be careful. Because if I give Utah marriage to France, they would recognize it as legal in Utah, and therefore still binding for some rights even in France. 
Thanks now I know the direction to go for

Wonder if these two have ever met irl

Hell, if they can do this in Utah I’m pretty sure there are Fortnite players I know who are now common law couples

Counterpoint:

Location - Ohio

I would because you aren’t doing anything wrong 🤷🏻‍♀️

If neither of you live in the US, who cares exactly?

Thank I know now it’s not bigamy ! Should I declare I have been married before or not even worth it

Good question! No- didn’t sign anything releasing the shop when I took the insurance payout

Why would it be?

It seems like no one recognizes this first marriage as valid anyway. So in their view you're marrying only once.

Really ? That’s great news thanks I will look into this

You’re right! I’m just wondering if they consider marrying same person twice to be illegal

So it should be fine, what I know from French side is if you’re married to someone, you can’t remarry again. Now if that person is the same I don’t know what happens

In French, bigamy translates to bigamie. It is defined as the act or the state of being legally married to two people simultaneously.

You’re talking about marrying the same person twice so it’s legally recognized where you live.  That, by definition, is not bigamy.

It can't be reported to police. If you have the same doctor and they know, they could stop prescribing to you since you're diverting it, though. It's also rather unsafe medically to start this without proper monitoring, and starting it now would mess up any baseline testing they'd want to do.

My question is, if it’s two different marriages, can’t they consider that as two different people. I really need to ask a lawyer for this

Buy a gas powered riding vacuum like the ones used to vacuum parking my lots

Honestly I'm with you on this. The fact they're threatening the family too makes it sound more like intimidation than an actual case. I'd be way more worried about getting a lawyer than their angry texts.

Unless French law has a unique take on bigamy, it’s my understanding that bigamy is when you’re marrying more than one person.  You’re simply remarrying the same person.  Am I missing something?

How would it be bigamy if you marry the same person?

Ugh my old house they filled holes with old construction material, I would pull out chunks of concrete and wire anytime I tried to plant anything

The prosecutor in France recognized it exists but it doesn’t follow French laws, so it can’t exert its full rights in France. 
Yeah im definitely looking for the right lawyer who knows international cases such as this
Since I previously applied the Utah marriage for transcription but it got rejected, it might be in their systems this is why im saying they might see it

I would do that but then put down cardboard and mulch before the new dirt to make more of a barrier between the dirt and glass

Could a lawyer do it if it was legally relevant to a current case?

It’s not bigamy to marry the same person again.

Yes I just want to regularize the situation

It shouldn't really matter if they're both to the same person.

Keep inind bigamy laws are to prevent you from being married to two different people at once, not from being married to the same person twice.

“Family law lawyer” or “divorce lawyer”.  But if your goal is to get remarried to the same person, I think the divorce is going to look weird.

You have to be the person in question. Otherwise no.

This is definitely something you need proper legal help with since those vehicles create liability exposure for you. Most lawyers offer free consultations where they'll tell you if you have a case - start there before worrying about fees. Many also work on contingency or payment plans, especially if there's clear negligence like this.

As a personal injury lawyer I can tell you from lots of experience that that is a massive gap and the insurance company will do everything to minimize the causation between the accident and the injuries. Definitely at least get a free consultation with a PI lawyer.

If France said “we don’t recognize the marriage”, why would they turn around and decide to only recognize it to charge you with bigamy for marrying the same person they don’t recognize you’re married to?

Go talk to a family lawyer, but seriously - I suspect you’re over complicating this.

Also, someone said France won’t look state by state. So true! I work in life insurance and we pull publicly available information for underwriting. If you don’t request records state by state, you won’t get certain details (like marriage licenses). France doesn’t care enough about you to do that in-depth of a search. The cost of doing such globally would be astronomical and ludicrous.

Getting married twice, to the same person, if the first marriage is not recognized, looks and sounds a lot like getting married once. You don’t need to undo a marriage that didn’t count in order to get one that does.  People have two ceremonies all the time; you’re just unique in doing paperwork in both. 

You are vastly overthinking this. Go to Mongolia and get married. Getting divorced once in Mongolia is probably enough as well, even for Utah to recognize.

Yeah, this is possible but France does recognize it exists without recognizing it fully. For instance, for immigration purposes it doesn’t help, but for spouse and children purposes it’s valid.

I think they recognize that it exists while not it respecting French laws enough for immigration purposes

Because I previously applied for transcription of Utah marriage, even though it failed. Is it in their systems ?

So it doesn’t apply to bigamy, I’m trying to understand the fine line between a them recognizing that marriage abroad exists but not recognizing it in their systems. What type of lawyer should I look for ?

how do I know if it's a scam.
I want to buy dmt

I hope I am, but got conflicting opinions from lawyers
I mean France recognize that I’m married in Utah, but not fully married according to French law so the question is, am I free to remarry or not.
From what I understand they can refuse the transcription while still recognizing abroad marriage exists

France says you’re not married.

Usually they keep same release conditions from arrest unless there's something new that came up 🤷‍♂️

Your doctor cannot legally or ethically report drug use to the police.

Was there any other communication with the billing department after they confirmed they are no longer in network? Maybe send them an email saying that you were never previously informed of the change (attach a copy of their email that showed that your plan wasn’t one of the plans listed as no longer covered) and that had you known, you would not have continued your appointments due to the cost and not being covered.

They might own up to their mistake and adjust your bill. This would be faster and less stressful than potentially going to court. Plus if Blue Shield eventually agrees to cover these appointments, you wouldn’t have burned a bridge by threatening them with court. 

If they don’t agree to adjust your bill, then it wouldn’t be a bad idea to send the demand letter and take to small claims if you wish.

wait your boyfriend definitely shouldn't start without doctor supervision, especially at 19. testosterone affects so many things in body and without proper monitoring his levels could get really messed up. the legal stuff is one thing but health risks are way more serious - you could actually hurt him by giving unprescribed hormones

Didn’t they tell you that they don’t recognize the marriage? Even if they do check it’s not a lawful marriage so you’d be ok right? Sounds to me like unless you ever plan on going to moving to Utah you can do what you want, France doesn’t seem to care.

they have no legal leg to stand on. if anything what they did was an invasion of privacy

What exactly are you trying to accomplish here? Your posts are neither legal advice, nor even useful or ethical.

NAL don’t do this as it puts you at a liability if something were to go wrong. Doctors would not report the use of T, but if something were to go wrong that harms them, it could cause issues for you.

Also, best to start with medical supervision for safety and the monitor for adverse effects (mood, cardio, and so on). Every body reacts slightly differently to some medication. Let that be the job and liability of a trained medical professional.

I am not certain on the legal side of this, although I suspect the doctor would not be able to report, seeing as you can disclose more restricted drugs without issue.

However I really wanted to chime in to say if you decide to do this please make sure he tells the doctor what he is planning before starting. There can be anything from conflicts with existing meds to additional tests/screenings his physician would want, to misdiagnoses of other future issues if they don't know what he is using.

I can't say whether or not doctors would report it, I'd lean towards no but I'm not a doctor or a lawyer. But as a fellow trans guy who worked at a hormone clinic for several years, it's almost certainly better for him to just wait for the appointment. Although I definitely understand the excitement of wanting to start sooner.

They will never check- why would the French government go state to state to see if you have a marriage license anywhere? If you’re going to get married again to the same person and you are doing it to simplify/legitimize French residency- get married in France to save a bunch of headache. Have a cultural ceremony on Mongolia and a legal courthouse ceremony inn France. I would just Forget about the Utah mess.

Reading your other comments, I think you're way overcomplicating this. Just marry her again in France or Mongolia in a way they legally recognize. There's no need to get divorced in Utah if you still want to be married to her.

They’re trying to scare you on unemployment. If you resign instead of getting fired that don’t have to pay unemployment. Had shitty people do bullshit things in the past. Don’t sign anything and file for unemployment

Yeah I definitely can ! I just hope when I transcribe the new marriage into Mongolia French authorities wrong say “oh but previously you submitted a transcription for Utah marriage “ I mean they should choose, either I’m married for them or not

Is there a high chance that i could be arrested?

Yes

This is a lawyer territory, you need to know what to do, to avoid even more complications.

I still think it's possible, but you really need a proper legal advice. You can't DIY this. I don't think that it's bigamy, you would have to be married to two different people at the same time. You're still married to your wife only.

no. if doctors became mandated reporters for drugs then you'd get people lying about what drugs they're taking, which would fuck with the drugs doctors are trying to prescribe them and lead to potentially fatal drug interactions.

They might, but then again under French law I would be under bigamy

Yes exactly can’t divorce, can’t marry there. I don’t even know what type of lawyer can help me

What type of lawyer I should ask for

So I can do this under Utah law and be divorced there, but France may refuse to recognize a Utah divorce if the original Utah marriage wasn’t valid under French law

Honestly that's solid advice about getting ahead of it with the police. Way better to have them hear your side first before the parents try to spin some wild story.

I mean, France says they're not married, Utah says they are. Sounds like they're stuck in some kind of legal limbo where they're simultaneously hitched and single depending on which country you ask.

That's actually a solid angle I hadn't thought of. If Mongolia's courts will touch it and France respects that ruling, you might be able to skip the whole Utah mess entirely.

I want to get married in Mongolia with her, but maybe when I transcribe this new marriage into French government for immigration, they will say there’s a record of you being married abroad. And that’s bigamy. Or you think they won’t check

Yes, he sent a document online filled with spelling and punctuation errors. That told me he would’ve changed it if I did sign it.

As for the dead person, unfortunately, he said that part over the phone, so I have no way to prove it. Everything else, I have evidence of.

It was around 1500. I’m more pissed that this was a guy I thought was my friend, not of the amount, which is why I’m going after him

lmao honestly at this point that joint might have more legal authority than the Utah marriage certificate

I think the easiest solution would be for you to go to Mongolia and get married there. Certainly going to be easier for a French passport to get a visa to Mongolia than the other way round.

I mean to say when she applies for immigration papers,  will they ask if I was married or divorced before? And if yes they might see on the divorce papers if I provide that it was done online. Maybe I should omit I was married then divorced abroad altogether. Also if I do say I’m divorced, they will question why on my birth certificate it says single, with no marriage and divorce history

Homeowners insurance covers sudden and accidental direct physical loss from wind hail fire theft or vandalism.  None of which are an accidental vehicle tire hitting the house.  You thinking they are going to lawyer up and subrogate for them is a stretch. I’d bet money they just get a denial for not being a covered loss.

Given Utah’s long and sketchy history with marriage… I’m not sure that a marriage only recognized in Utah is a real marriage… plus they might be supportive of you getting married again! More the merrier was their marriage philosophy right?

I thought France wouldn’t recognize the marriage? If they don’t recognize the marriage, I’d think they don’t need to recognize the divorce. In their eyes the marriage never happened. Although I am not sure how French law works. 

At least you’d be able to get the divorce in the jurisdiction where you were married.

It definitely sounds like a scam! 

When you asked for your money back, I’m assuming he tried to get you to sign this document without giving you your money back? 

The part about using dead references and people not knowing what you were talking about, is your strongest evidence. If you do decide to pursue anything, I would bring that up first, when explaining what happened. Your biggest hurdle is proving that he used the money for something else. 

I hope it wasn’t a lot of money. Good luck!

You said that you want to remain with your current wife, just want to get you marriage in order. So, can't you just get married again in a place that would recognize your marriage?

Not sure if it's possible, but that seems like the simplest solution.

It’s difficult for her to come here due to visa purposes, if she could come I guess it could work, but is there a chance the marriage in Utah will block it even if it’s not fully recognized?

Utah Code Section: 81-4-402.  Petition for divorce -- Divorce proceedings -- Temporary orders.
(1)	An individual may bring a petition for divorce if:
(a)	the individual or the individual's spouse is an actual and bona fide resident of the county where the petition is filed for at least 90 days before the day on which the petition is filed;
(b)	the individual is a member of the armed forces of the United States and the individual is stationed under military orders in this state for at least 90 days before the day on which the petition is filed; or
(c)	both parties to the marriage have consented to personal jurisdiction for divorce or annulment under Subsection 81-2-303(5)(a)(ii).

Really ? Will that hold internationally if France requires both to be present at the time do signing the divorce papers ?

Thank you, hopefully the demand is all it'll take. I'm sure they know they fucked up.

I'm also pursuing insurance-related options, I asked the provider if they can do a single-case agreement for me so it continues to be in-network. Not sure if that would apply retroactively though, and I'm not optimistic that the provider will agree to it (or that Blue Shield will approve it). Also been in touch with Blue Shield about getting it covered under continuity of care, but it doesn't seem like it's going to meet their eligibility requirements.

Thanks, and yeah I think my main goal is I’d like to be sure they didn’t do stuff they weren’t allowed to do and that they appropriately checked all the boxes regarding the investigation and didn’t just blow it off cause she was a teenager/younger person. I’d like to see to it that anyone who did miss handle the rules is somehow held accountable (whether that’s something as simple as them being notified that they need to not do that to people in the future with their belongings) I just want to be absolutely sure her case is correctly reported cause there is currently some discrepancies and I want more information on what happened regarding speed of the other person and stuff too.

According to France, you're not even married, so I doubt they'll care how you get divorced.

When I transcribe it I mean, this problem can arise as maybe they will check if I was physically there

I see sketchy services online for this, but I’m afraid French will ask me to be physical because even if it’s legal under Utah laws, they might consider this divorce to not be legal under French laws if I do it online again

If you're still with her and want to stay with her, can you get married again in France?

This transcription is necessary for immigration purposes of my wife

You should both be able to consent to the jurisdiction of Utah courts and divorce there without meeting the residency requirements. Get a family law lawyer in Utah to assist.

Ok, so I looked into it and it looks like Utah offers an online marriage process. This is quite the conundrum. You should contact a divorce lawyer in Utah and see if there's any way around their residency laws.

Thanks will check it

I have the apostilled mariage certificate

Yes it was recorded, it legally happend

I’m not a resident there sadly 🥲

Hm, good point.

He was the one who kept saying he’d send my money back whenever I started grilling him about no results and seemingly no progress. And then when I finally asked for my money back directly, he tried to make me sign a document stating I relinquish rights to a product… that I already confirmed through my personal investigation was not being made.

I never saw the product, nor any progress made on it. He claimed to have spoken with several people in regards to the production, but when I spoke with those people, they didn’t know what I was talking about. There was even one person the defendant had claimed to speak to that had actually been dead for the past six years.

The French embassy in Los Angeles, when I asked for it to be transcribed into the French side, gave it to the prosecutor of Nantes and said the following

Try asking in r/Utah 

And did you get a marriage license in Utah and was is filed after the ceremony? Because it it wasn't recorded then it legally didn't happen.

I'm in the financial services industry. I don't think calling MS by yourself is going to lead anywhere unless your dad is also on the line. Short term, if you can help your dad make the request to transfer, I think that would be the immediate solution. Long term, you'd need to get your dad to either revoke the POA, or name you as the 529 owner.

Also, there is a non zero chance that calling MS and trying to raise a stink could lead to getting their compliance team involved in a potentially bad way. If they think there may be some elder abuse involved, they may restrict the account(s) until they can determine what's going on. This could delay getting the money out in the short term, and then every subsequent request could be heavily scrutinized, regardless of if your dad makes the request himself.

oddly enough you can even remarry in utah

I’m trying to understand if my country can recognize the Utah wedding exists, while rejecting its validity in France. That’s why I feel stuck

I’m still with this person, but since the transcription failed for France, I can’t proceed with immigration papers. That’s why I was considering divorcing and remarrying through a legit and physical way

Yes I have Utah mariage certificate with apostille and everything

Is there any actual need to divorce? It sounds like this marriage isn’t being recognized outside the US by your home countries so there’s no real need, just quit communicating and move on.

who refused it? just get it transcribed and notarized.

Are you sure you're married?

That is entitled thinking. We do not know how it ended, but she obviously is very upset about it. 
Just because you are not, doesn't mean she isn't allowed to feel how she is feeling. 
The only outcome you can truly hope for is your possessions back. It is up to you to find a new place to stay asap.

They recognize it as legal under Utah laws, just not under French laws. Does that matter? They might say when I want to get remarried in the future that I’m already married abroad. From what I understand they recognize it but don’t want to transcribe it.

When you excavate the top 12 inches or so, see about adding gravel around the 6 inch mark. It’ll prevent glass from coming back up, and make the ground a little more firm so you don’t get stuck if it gets a little muddy.

She’s mentally unstable and you should report all of this without sugarcoating

Should I just remarry without divorcing then, if it’s not recognized anywhere but USA. I guess its valid under Utah laws but doesn’t France and Mongolia won’t transcribe it

Nah. Glass will work its way back up due to frost heave. Also, you don’t want to change the elevation too much because that affects everything else.

What would MS provide a non client / non POA? They aren't giving info or docs to a third party. I don't see how contacting them would lead anywhere unless dad is also on the line... Which may be the easiest solution. If he helps dad make the request to transfer the money. The POA doesn't have to be the one making the request for the transfer unless dad is documented to be incapacitated.

By the power invested in me by this joint im holding, i hereby declare you divorced everywhere except utah.

If Mongolia recognizes it you might be able to do paperwork there through their embassy in Paris. Most countries let you handle some civil stuff through embassies even if you're not physically there

They refused it because it was done online

From what you have described, it looks like you have a decent paper trail. The biggest point is that they confirmed they were in-network and then apparently never clearly informed you when that changed. Before going to small claims, I would definitely send a demand letter and give them a chance to fix the issue. Sometimes providers prefer to settle rather than deal with a court case.

A few things I would focus on:

• Keep copies of all emails and billing records.  
• Show the email where they said they would remain in-network.  
• Clearly explain how the billing affected your deductible.  
• Ask for reimbursement in writing before filing.  
• Check whether your insurer has a complaint or appeal process as well.

Small claims is usually designed for people without lawyers, so your documentation may be more important than legal arguments. The written evidence seems to be your strongest point here.

I would stop calling it an investment. It’s not an investment if he never intended to use it for that purpose. It’s just a straight up scam. 

You keep calling it an investment and that’s where you lost me. If you explained it the same way to the cops, I can see why they weren’t interested. It just sounds like you’re upset about an investment not working out, which happens every day and is not illegal. 

Did he use the money towards this “product” at all? Regardless if he actually made it? Because if he did prototyping, or used the funds to form the business, anything to further the product. Then it might not be a scam. But if he took the money and then spent it on other things. Completely unrelated to the “product”, then you have action. 

Why exactly did he agree to refund you?

Was the marriage recognized in Mongolia? Because if it was, divorce there.

Not an attorney so this is not legal advice. Do not sign the document, but give them the keys. 

A friend of mine was laid off and asked to sign a document stating she resigned. Both myself (a paralegal) and the attorney I worked with suggested not signing it, but HR said they would assist with an unemployment claim so she signed it. She filed for unemployment and was denied because the company said she voluntarily quit using that document as evidence. 

That document is to prevent you from collecting unemployment. Again, I am not an attorney and this is not legal advice.

If you took the insurance offer, that's the end of it. You only get one bite of the apple.

If your country doesn't recognize your marriage as legal, what's the problem?

If the dad was like oh so and so might know - then it’s an easy first step in trying to understand the family situation etc

Since I’m not registered as married in France in the first place wouldn’t that cause a problem ? From what I understand they can’t recognize the divorce if the marriage is not transcribed first

Since your wife is in Mongolia check if their courts can handle the divorce bcause if they recognize the Utah marriage France should recognize a foreign divorce decree

You may be able to get it expunged. Ask an attorney. Each US state is different.

There’s nothing illegal in disclosing as long as you’re telling the truth. Telling the truth isn’t "disparaging". It’s very likely as well that the document you signed isn’t enforceable.

Even if she was 17, he's covered by the Romeo and Juliet law, as the age difference is less than 7 years

no sir. there's plenty of small towns that'll ignore that sort of thing.

Half the glass would scrape away with equipment. You’d have to cut up the grass in squares and roll out. Then scrape with a mini. Then compact then add dirt then add sod.

Definitely report this, and if possible seek out other work. This sounds like an extremely abusive / hostile environment and it's not good for anyone, autistic or not.

That's rough man, but the insurance payout is probably all you're gonna get. Bailment laws don't really help when they have proper insurance coverage - courts usually see that as fulfilling their obligation to make you whole

  
Small claims might not even take it since their insurer already paid out the actual value. You'd basically be arguing you deserve more than fair market value, which is tough sell in court

IANAL, but did you already sign something when you took the money from the insurance company?  Or did you refuse it.

Well, it didn’t happen to me. It did happen to my ex’s ex-husband. She claimed he was abusive for most of our relationship, and I just kind of believed it, it wasn’t only until after she started accusing me of the same things that I reached out to him and met up with him and he told me all about why he hasn’t been in his kids life all this time   

Tbf I stopped taking almost anything seriously in family court.  It’s a game of $. There are very little to few legal ramifications for the parent not abiding by after hearing orders for issues like these.  Only when one party demonstrably willfully repeatedly denies courts instructions are there harsh punishments. 

Protective orders are the only one that I’ve learned a lesson on that should always be followed. Doesnt matter if you meant well, if you were coerced . 
Judge had ruled that I had until the end of the month to retrieve my belongings through her attorney.  I called twice left a voicemail. I sent an email with the date and time the civil standby was to take place and I was ignored.  The end of the month came and went, and when I later wanted to file for sanctions, the attorney very simply drew a substitution of attorney, closing the line of communication for good. I tried asking the police to come with me instead to grab my belongings and when they called her, she denied having any of my property there. Four days later, she’s cataloguing everything to her friends about what I’ve left there from tools to clothes to electronics to silver bars. 

We share something in common at least. I won’t see my stuff back same way she won’t ever see any consequences. Which brazens those very same people to keep pushing buttons. Sorry for what you’re going through. I didn’t wanna make this a personal thing, but I just saw that this is a familiar scene that hit home.

If I didn't have the right to consent to sex because I'm depressed, I'd be depresseder. 

Unless I have guardianship over her, or evidence that you two did anything before she turned 18, or you're lying about something like the age Gap ref dating laws etc, there's literally nothing they can do. I would make sure 100% that you are safe by taking everything to the police station yourself 

After they clear, you file a restraining order on them.

If we asked people how many naked bodies, they saw dancing and having sex,

what do you think the answer will be,

nature is naked

then talk about it and at least for me it's a dumb case for him

he will lose his trust if he does that

he will notice that the first time he tries

we respect privacy but words explain and preparation detain

Thank you so much. Yeah Workers Compensation just gave me treatment up to how I was before the injury, so the ability to lift 10 lbs. even though the injury at work was related to my previous diagnosis. Left and right it’s just been them trying to put them blame on me, “why were you working outside your restriction?” (You know, the one they were giving me push back on) or “why didn’t you do a drug test when you first saw the doctor?” (They never told me anything about that, nor did they even send the request to the doctors so they didn’t know either). 

There’s also a conflict of interest, in my opinion. There’s “Wellness Director” used to be one step down as “Assistant Wellness Director”. She was part of the management group that had no problem with my restriction. She was promoted to Wellness Director and the new ASSISTANT wellness director under her, the one who started all this push back on my restrictions, is her mother. Of course she’s gunna suddenly side with her after being fine with my restriction for 2 years.

It was an investment, until I found out he lied about several key details, which told me he was never going to make a product. He also told me multiple times in text he would send my money back, then never did.

I actually did try to file a report, and they said there’s nothing they could do.

That really sucks they're making you wait this long without pay. From what you described it sounds like disability discrimination might be your best bet since they're targeting the lift restriction that was already accommodated before

  
The timing is super suspicious too - worked fine for years then new management suddenly has issues with same restriction? That's pretty textbook retaliation behavior

  
For the consultation fees, try calling around to more attorneys because many employment lawyers do free consultations for discrimination cases. Also check if there's any legal aid society in the San Antonio area that might help with employment issues

You partially in crosswalk doesn't give him right to damage your car like that. File police report with description since you got good look at him - vandalism is crime regardless if you were bit over line

  
Being angry about blocked crosswalk is one thing but stabbing someone's hood with sharp object crosses way into criminal territory

Laughed too much at that.

This is unhelpful legal advice that one would expect from a police officer or paralegal but no lawyer would say this.

You may not want to change the elevation of your lot/pad as that might introduce rain issues

Thank you. I have consulted with an attorney with whom I was able to share in greater detail. He advised  me that I have a claim and that if they do not respond favorably to an initial email from me then he is willing to escalate things.

I hope you charged him interest, to the maximum extent permitted by law.

The valuation has nothing to do with the cost of land. It has everything to do with how much money they stand to lose if they can't put that pipe on his land.

i’m not scared of it going viral or anything i’m scared of people from my college seeing it :(

you reminded me that when i was 8, my poor classmate stepped on a nail in the yard behind our classroom and it went through his foot ☹️

You have already done every good faith attempt to settle this amicably and she has continously ignored the issue. There is no point in talking to a brick wall again..

The next step is to get a lawyer and sue her for breach of contract.

Maybe the threat of actual legal action will wake her up enough to respond as to why she missed the payment and your lawyer can take it from there.

It’s the 3 months I’m worried about. 
Genuinely don’t care to get any money, just want to be better. Chiropractor is certain this all has stemmed from the wreck. Doctor visit today I asked and she said it’s possible it came from the wreck but wouldn’t give me a definite yes or no. Just crazy to me that it was all of a sudden. Just hoping to get it handled lol

If that happens...you can find support and resources at StopNCII.org

You could check out the website now, so that you are more familiar with it in case you need to make a report and get the content taken down quickly.

Thats cap dude, if someone is shooting inside city limits consistently theyll come

thinking about it, i cant imagine that'd be very practical. you'd have 18" of artificial elevation around your house and a crap ton of glass lurking beneath. i don't know how that might effect resale value. and if the glass resurfaces then you'd have even more dirt to haul away

They've got nothing to sue you for. 

Also, top tip.
If you're going to film you and your partner, learn how to store it *securely*. Snapchat is not secure.

Get a folder on your phone with a password/code. 

Also, make sure your gfs parents don't have parental access to her phone if she's going to have the clips as well. And, of course, she needs a secure location.

I don’t technically disagree with you but the first one was because I blew a tire and hit someone, and the one from today my dashcam shows the light was still yellow. My only 2 offenses since I’ve started driving

Step 1: don't be shitty at driving

This sounds weird. If he’s working normal hours and getting his normal taxed paycheck, I wouldn’t just take the manager’s word that workers’ comp is paying it.

He should contact the claims administrator directly and ask what they have on file, especially restrictions and wage/payment status. Also save paystubs, schedules, and anything the manager says in writing.

what I will share with you may be dumb but as I know from watching porn you will not go viral even if you wanted to and no one will know about you but if he starts doing marketing through your network of people that can damage your reputation

word of mouth attack can be neutralized if you talk about him and his plans to your network before he does it

Not the first and not the last definitely

I feel dumb just because I am a man

Relax and enjoy life

We both signed the lease together

That means that you are jointly liable for one another's conduct, as it related to a breach of the lease.   You will both be named in the eviction, if they file one.

Your life won't be ruined.

His might be, revenge porn is a felony in California. You would report it to the police.

if your authority only works when everyone is scared of your temper, it's probably not authority, it's intimidation. dude sounds like he's treating the account like his personal leverage.

Inform the police/ sue his ass

UT's has a monetary threshold of just $3k in medical bills, which is the PIP coverage in the state, to make a bodily injury claim for pain and suffering.

So OP shouldn't have an issue there, but the obvious issue is the 3 months between the accident and the 'symptoms' and any real treatment.

Call California department of consumer affairs. They should have answers on how to handle this.

200+ accounts over 1.5 years stops sounding like random trolling and starts sounding like targeted harassment.

The detail that stands out to me is the personal information mixed into the bios. Birth year, pregnancy timing, family details, local references. That suggests someone with at least some real-world knowledge of you, even if it's indirect.

At this point I'd focus less on trying to catch them yourself and more on building a paper trail. Keep screenshots, usernames, dates, and account creation patterns organized in one place. If this continues escalating, having a documented history of hundreds of incidents is going to matter.

Also, be very cautious about trying to identify them through IP-grabbing links or similar tactics. Even if it worked, it may not give you actionable information.

Sorry you're dealing with this. The persistence alone would be unsettling.

If you're going to import clean dirt anyway, can you skip the excavation and just cover everything with 18" of new dirt?

I can't speak for PA or MD.

The "sold notice" that can be filed with some states does help protect you. Again, depends on the state.

My recent experience was a notary refused to show up (I was bending over backwards) because this MVD doesn't require one for the transaction we needed. You might, though, for your transaction. Best luck.

Can you go onto the dmv website for your state and fill out a sold notice?

Utah's one of those whacky "no-fault" states. You'll have to exhaust you personal injury coverage typically unless you can get your injury classified as something serious. Talk to your insurance provider

Your paycheck has to be available to you on your next payday after you quit. As long as she brought it to you I don't see anything illegal about this. There are no laws requiring it to be in a certain spot.

NAL, but I was diagnosed with depression when I was 14 and still take SSRI’s. 

In no way does my diagnosis make me incapable of giving consent for sexual activity between adults. I’ve been married for 11.5 years, for crying out loud. 

Now, if my husband knows I’m having a bad depressive episode, then he’s not gonna ask me for sex. He won’t do that because he knows I probably won’t have the energy or drive for it, not because he thinks I’m somehow incapable of giving proper consent. 

Your GF is an adult. Her diagnosis does not mean she’s incapable of saying she wants to engage in sexual activity. Her parents are full of it.

I was injured in CA and I live in NM. Guess I’ll just call firms in both

I think that's a fair thing to ask and I appreciate the concern, but I have no reason to not believe him. He's a good guy & I can trust him, thankfully!

I'm also friends with the person he was with when he met her & with and everyone who was around when it was originally happening. They all have the same story & are just as shocked by the situation. I've also seen all the evidence and recent messages as I've been helping him figure out how to handle this. He has a whole file from the last time around. 

If you could see these messages you'd see what I mean...she's literally sending him videos of her having sex with other men (who are of a different race & couldn't be mistaken for him) and saying it's him.

Call the state police.

The realest response. 

Yes, women have a lot of power in domestic disputes. My ex-girlfriend cheated on me and I wanted her to move out. She wouldn't budge. 

I completely own and pay for everything in my apartment. Name alone on the lease. My ex-girlfriend contributed nothing, not even food. Yet, when the police officers showed up, they told ME that I should go ahead and move out and let her live there while I continue to pay rent. They weren't going to tresspass or remove her because  it's "civil" and they don't want to be co-defendants. 

Absolutely insane.

Everybody else has told me it was sketchy too

Pretty much, now hes going get hit for fraud.

My son-in-law told me "it is mine" when handing my my granddaughter to hold i am sickened by him.

Where did they say that? When they bought the property it was covered in snow and they found out about the glass when the snow melted.

Find a new attorney ASAP. In high asset divorces, 2-4 day response times on urgent matters is absolutely unacceptable, especially when you're dealing with provisional orders and time-sensitive issues. Most divorce attorneys will return unused portions of retainers minus work already performed - just make sure to get an itemized bill before you terminate.

personal injury cases are usually handled in the state where incident happened so you'd probably need attorney in new mexico. most lawyers will do free consultation anyway so might as well call few of them there to see what they think about your case

Therapist to help child

Invite them to sue, then when they lose and tou win their harassment counter claim... win win

And the fact that they say you “aren’t a good fit” with your “skill set”. They aren’t specifically firing you BECAUSE of your disability per se. Employers are often pretty savvy about how to word things .

Seems extremely sketchy to have removed it from the store. Doubt there's a legal claim since you received it, but NAL

You stated that you were aware that they shot glass bottles back there, which would tend to result in glass shards all over the yard. This post establishes that you knowingly purchased a property that had a high likelihood of glass shards in the backyard and now you want to sue the seller because there are glass shards in the backyard…not a winning battle in most cases. You likely took the property as is, so unless the seller specifically agreed to clean up the glass, which it doesn’t sound like they did, you have no recourse. Sorry you are dealing with this and it is much worse than anticipated, It’s an odd situation, but your money would be better spent on clean up then legal counsel. Just my opinion and not legal advice.

If he got a survey there would be stakes and flags out there. My property has steel pipes with a brass tag on the top. Just went through this about a month ago with my neighbor. He said Google Maps says it’s his property.

They have no right to make you sign, and you should not do so. You are owed your pay for the time you worked.

My only legal advice is to consult with a lawyer. Why? Because disclosure laws and in particular traditions / precedent-setting cases can vary a lot state by state.

And now the anecdote: When we were a young couple in the early 90s, we moved to the San Francisco Bay Area, and rented a cute little cabin in the hills. Built in the 1920s, had shag carpet from the 1960s (lime colored!). The landlord told us that we should not walk barefoot, and not have kids while living in the house, because (a) the extensive decks had no railings (we thought that was a benefit), and (b) during the 89 earthquake, the cabin had shifted so much all windows exploded, and the carpet was still loaded with little shards of glass. They had replaced the carpet in the bedroom, but redoing the rest of the house was not considered "worth it". We did not have kids in that house, and for the about 6 years we lived there, every time we vacuumed the house, we would hear the telltale "clink clink" sound in the vacuum cleaner.

Turns out the small pointy shards from shattered windows are nearly impossible to get out of carpet.

I hate to be that person, but … the longer things like this go on, the more likely they are to be not what they seem. You’ve got some good advice here already, but I’d also ask yourself what evidence you’ve seen with your own eyes that the incident seven years ago happened as your fiance said, and that the same person is definitely behind the current situation. 

Is there any possibility that your fiance is mentally unwell, or his relationship with the person sending the messages is much closer than he says, or someone close to you who benefits from the situation has revived it?

Just want to throw that out there, in case it makes something click.

Otherwise, maybe try contacting the woman’s family/the police again? If it got rid of her for a few years, it might work again.

Considering how common depression is that is not a valid reason someone is incapable of consenting. Also as has been said before unless she is in a guardianship her parents can't tell control what she does with her life or body. Sure they can kick her out but they can't press charges or anything like that unless she wants to.

A child is a person, not a piece of furniture that one can gain possession of by “physically enforcing” the right to it.

If that’s how dad thinks, it’s no wonder the child isn’t interested in spending time with dad. The court thinking dad has mended their ways doesn’t erase the harm that the abuse caused to the child.

Thank you, I realize this is a longshot and is a long haul kind of thing but thank you for the advice. I will look into the kinds of orgs that you mentioned.

But that's just therapy; the mom still needs to take the child to therapy (which she could just deny), and the child needs to want to go. Or even if mom decides to take them against their will, the child still has to participate in it.

There has to be some sort of endgame to all of this because mere orders on paper carry no weight until and unless they are physically enforced by someone.

You need to contact various trans rights orgs for something like this. The case you are describing wanting someone to file is essentially trying to overturn an executive order to an executive branch agency, which is a big multi-year ordeal type of thing, and that would likely have to win over SCOTUS to be successful. Related cases in front of SCOTUS running off a similar rationale (not treating a transwoman as a biological woman is sexual discrimination) are not doing well and are expected to lose. (Little v. Hecox, for instance).

There are really limited cases in which people under VA care have carved out exceptions for \*just themselves\*, but they are rare. To have a chance at that long shot, you need to be contacting trans rights orgs or specific veterans legal services orgs to try to find lawyers who are already doing pro-bono trans rights work or VA work, who are familiar with it, and who might because of that take your case.

You'd probably want to start by explaining what you mean by that.

Yes, I agree, go to hospital, your focus should be to seek help, not a job when you are living under so hard conditions. If you are not well you cannot work. Just focus on one thing at a time, your mental health should be your main focus.

Do not do this. Why is daughter trying to commit voter fraud? Why can’t she vote where she actually lives? Why do you want her to be able to get loan on the property or not sell or worse sell when your mom wants to live there?

Yes contact a crisis center or Hotline , ASAP

That’s what my gut is telling me. No need to apologize, it’s quite evident he’s a manipulative person. I’m feeling fifty ways a’sideways with how I fell for it all. I’m really wondering how I can release liability if he doesn’t cooperate. It doesn’t seem like he would be interested in having a proper bill of sale or to retro actively notarize and fill out the title.

Go get help at Social services in your town to see what services you can get, food stamps, insurance,  you need to take care of your health first get your meds, without them you are not safe. You need a social worker to help you ASAP

Omg try to call a non profit to seek advise, your dad sounds dangerous,  has issues himself. If you feel suicidal you call 911, you will be better off in a hospital,  you dont need your dads approval to get help yourself you are over 18. Try to apply for state insurance not sure if its medicaid or Medicare, try to get off your dads insurance, you need to get out of his house, after you feel better, find roommates,  but your dads house is not a safe place for you. Im sorry you are going through this. Try to meditate to clear your mind, you tube has a lot of videos,  you need to regulate your nervous system, and seek help if you have intrusive thoughts. Stay safe!!!

The police aren’t going to drag the kid out of the house to go with dad. 

Dad goes back to family court and asks the court for a guardian ad litem to assess the situation. The result is probably therapy for dad and kid to try and repair the relationship.

What you're referring to are the new CA Civil Code 1941.8 and 1941.9.

1941.8 defines a covered evacuation as one for which the governor or president have declared a state of emergency.

The initial evacuation order on May 21 was done by local authorities. On May 23, the evacuation area was expanded and a state of emergency was declared by the governor. The evacuation area was shrunk on the 25th and then lifted on the 26th.

Your landlord might argue (if they weren't just denying altogether) that the law only applies beginning May 23. Normally a state of emergency declaration would cover back to the "start" of an incident, which is obviously necessary since most disasters aren't exactly foreseen. But there is an argument to be made that, absent an actual incident to point to, there were just two separate evacuation orders and the covered one started on the 23rd. Since this law is new, there won't be any case law to clarify.

The law lets you deduct the amount from your next month's rent. Theoretically you could do that, and let your landlord decide whether they want to take you to court over it or not. But eviction is no joke, and the exact number of covered days may be in question here, so you should really consult an actual tenant lawyer before doing so. Whether that's worth it for a few hundred dollars is up to you.

He could be messaging you good things and keeping you feeling like everything is going to work out to stall to get it somewhere else and the either chop it or resell it. Sorry for giving the most negative comment but scammers keep friendly until the last moment.

He was already in line to receive a large portion for their minor child. So he lies to get it all?

Kids life will spoil

I was told a bail bondsman won’t work with us since it’s a cash only bond.

First off you don't need 10k, bail bondsmen companies will come up with the 10k. You need to pay usually 1k + either have credit to sign for the rest or put up collateral that can cover the 10k if he doesn't show up. 

It's unanswerable to why this came up now.

also please for the love of everything holy get this girl (and perhaps all of you) into therapy.

i totally wholeheartedly get that. my mom was the only somewhat emotionally available parent and we were extremely extremelyyyy close. she always knew when something was up with me, everytime!!! except for when it came to me being sexually abused as a kid. 

forgive me for my legit novel of a post this is just something i’m a huge advocate for (typing this sentence after i wrote it lol).

i’m sure this is all insanely overwhelming and my heart breaks for you and your daughter. other people jumping to accuse you of covering for the person or being a terrible mother are way out of pocket. this is probably the worst thing a mother can have her daughter say to them.

i just saw your other comment about being beaten as a child, assuming it’s the same dad being referenced, now i’m doubly more curious how it isn’t in the realm of possibility. but that’s completely irrelevant. 

as someone who was sexually abused at a very young age by multiple direct family members(and strangers), please believe your daughter. as others have said, this could be the root of her behavioral issues, even if it’s not the same person! i highly doubt they are going to get in any sort of trouble as much as i hate to say that and as f*cked as it is.

i can only offer my own experience going through something similar to what your daughter is saying, and i hope it’s not oversharing, but i had a severe mental breakdown at 21 after a SA which led to my brain resurfacing an entire childhood of sexual trauma. 

majority of the which was by my dad, a pastor! i had flickers of things happening before that even when i was a kid, and wouldn’t ya know, it lead to me flipping a switch oftentimes at the most random things. i also lashed out as well. i thought something was wrong with me for “thinking about/imagining” something as gross as what i was picturing, turns out those were just flashbacks.

after my SA i shared with my family that i was abused by my dad & adopted brother. then i went into psychosis and my entire dads side of the family, including my mom & siblings, called me a liar and said weed gave me psychosis + my moms side of the family brainwashed me. disclosing trauma is never easy and the reactions of parents are crucial in these times. 

i agree with another comment stating you need to believe and support her, and if it ends up not being true, it /will/ come out. then you deal with it if it so.

don’t let her inconsistencies fuel your disbelief, after 5 years of extensive therapy and trauma work, i am still unable to remember my trauma chronologically-even with one singular event. even the one that occurred at 21! everything was so jumbled the first time i talked about it with family that even the family members that believe me, were super super confused. 

not to make this super long or trauma dumpy, but i also have a 2nd or 3rd cousin (our dads are cousins, she’s my age/we grew up together) who also went through something similar to me when she was like 15. she had a mental breakdown because our great uncle had been molesting her her whole life and she couldn’t keep it in anymore. every single person on that side of the family except her siblings and parents + gma still associate with this man and call her a liar. they tried pressing charges and even tried getting a restraining order and literally nothing happened to him. they couldn’t even get a restraining order granted! 

there’s unfortunately more cases of it happening w other random family members the past few years after i spoke up (massive massive family) and all of it has been swept under the rug. families have extremely dark sides to them and in my case, it NEVER would have come out had i not said something. 

/to address ur concern about something happening to an innocent person:/ i reported the SA when i was 21 to the police with a full r*pe kit and eyewitnesses putting the person in the same room as me and absolutely nothing happened to him. it was someone i grew up with & he wasn’t even questioned! i gave up trying because it was more devastating mentally to relive all of the questioning by police and reliving that trauma than justice is worth.

 like i said above, the great uncle in my family? absolutely nothing happened. at allllll! my adopted brother? despite him abusing another family member as well: nothing happened. family and friends still surround him. my dad? is literally still practicing in church. full support of his family.

you know what did happen though? i cut off my mom (my best friend) completely. same with my 3 siblings.  and although ive tried working through it, that is probably one of the most damaging things to come out of it all. there is no emotional betrayal greater than your mother not believing you with something like this and never having your back. sending lots of love to you and your family <3

Under policies published by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, electronic devices seized at the border can sometimes be retained beyond the initial examination period if additional review is required. The agency generally has internal guidelines regarding retention and supervisory review, but those are not necessarily hard deadlines requiring automatic return of the device.

You need a civil rights attorney to get leverage here. Nothing else is likely to work.

You are insufferable.   Please don’t talk.

Each state has a difference on what the child wishes are taken into account. The closer to 18 the more their choices matter. The parent the child wishes to stay with would need to try to modify the custody agreement. In that case if the child is still too young the courts will just do what the child wants there's a GAL that is to look out for the best interests of the child.

Sucky situation. If your parents pay/paid for college, more than 6k. Give the money back. I wouldn’t mess up college tuition payments over 6k. You made it all these years without touching it, so I'm sure you have learned how to live as a broke college student. Tough it out. You'll soon graduate, get a job, and make your own money.

Some venues even have pay to play so there is that.  If you stick to open jams and open mics you will not be paid.

Thank you! I will give this a try!

"So yes, she's likely lying." 

Your entire post is unhinged and not based in reality. False accusations about sexual assault are rare when set against the number of total sexual assaults committed.

Thanks. Brother is angry at parents for not granting him POA in November; he stopped talking to them and mom died before he came back from his home in California, so I know he's angry and grieving -- but so angry, mentions it frequently -- like, "get over it dude". I'll call Morgan Stanley tomorrow; they've seen him blow up in meetings and during the November meeting, he hung up his phone as soon as mom and dad said "we're mentally capable to decide how to spend our money". He's a POS not merely the POA and I told dad that the only way to protect me is to remove him as POA, not dad's "thoughts and prayers".

Then take her to small claims for it. But for the love of god do not try to stay in that home.

False allegations about CSA are exceedingly rare.

Yes. The website says text START and they will respond. If you feel comfortable live chatting, go to thehotline.org and click the live chat button.

Your brother having POA doesnt automatically give him control over the 529 - those funds are specifically designated for your daughter's education and if your dad already approved the release with Morgan Stanley, your brother might be overstepping his authority here

  
You need to contact Morgan Stanley directly and get documentation of your dad's approval, then potentially consult with an estate attorney who can review the POA documents to see if brother actually has authority over educational accounts. Many POAs have specific limitations and 529s often have different rules than regular bank accounts

IANAL but I have some life experience with inheritance in California. Your friend needs to retain a probate / estate attorney in California.

California law generally requires probate if the deceased person’s assets exceed $184,500 in total value (as of 2022), unless those assets are already held in a living trust, have named beneficiaries, or are jointly owned with survivorship rights.

Simply dropping $800k+ at the bank will send up all sorts of red flags and might get those funds locked up for a long while. Even significantly smaller amounts deposited repeatedly will do that too, eventually. The right way to make sure there’s a good paper trail is to go through probate which is probably required. Probate costs in California are very fixed (by law) so it’s not going to be too unpredictable.

Seconding this. People don’t have a valid claim against you for something you did to somebody else. Your gf is a legal adult.

Unfortunately it’s a reality that many properties have glass in construction fill underneath layers of soil.  If legal recovery is not possible and 30k remediation is not feasible then the focus for excavation can be in key areas while other sections  can be raked over and layered heavily with free and abundant materials that become healthy soil.

yup. a group of lawyers didn’t have enough problems 😂😭 OP is out here trying to piss us off more.

are 10 year olds/5th graders/ ELEMENTARY AGE KIDS considered teenagers to you?

When stories change & contradictions are made, that's a huge red flag a person is lying. Teenage girls have made false accusations against family members in the past. Some teen girls can be downright scary. I hate to inform everyone here, but teen girls, unfortunately, DO make false accusations. CPS investigators should be able to see this when they interview her. AND, the family member is cooperating.

This really is not discrimination in any fashion. They have tried to work with you

She is the one being accused of taking the package not me. We both signed the lease together and that’s why I’m dragged into this. 

Snohomish county.

Thank you for this… I’m trying to do right by her. I’ve never dealt with this, I’m in this state by myself and I haven’t spoken to anyone about it besides her dad so I came on here to get an idea of what to expect. My tone and wording didn’t mean to come off as I blatantly didn’t believe her nor was I not supporting her. I just don’t know if it’s like the tv shows or if it’s different. I was trying to get an idea of what to expect.

If I text will they communicate via text.  He's always home listening in.

What alcoholic ? The OP posted that the condition was caused by a dumbass shooting bottles in his yard and bottles that are glass are usually alcohol. I doubt the prior owner was shooting bottles of olive oil.   Idiots who drink and shoot their empties (probably while drinking) do not tend to have deep pockets for recovery in litigation not withstanding the January sale. Since OP said that remediation would cost $30k and that might not be recoverable without incurring legal fees, OP might consider focusing budget on priority areas and priority materials

I'm not going to but my cousin, a lawyer, said I could at least protect some of the kids.  Fight for him from another state.  But I figured even if I did that the most I'd get is holidays and summer when school starts.  Which leaves him alone with him far too long.

I want to stay in the apartment until I have somewhere to go. What she's doing is rude, spiteful, and heartless. We didn't have a toxic relationship   we were very compatible. Things just werent perfect or working anymore. But to kick me out like im gum.on the sidewalk? I at least deserve decency to live there until I can get on my own feet.

contact the previous tenants

if not possible then return it

not at once and it looks like

you have time left for that

if you have noticed the apartment owner

then you have a good reason

You need to look over the documents you signed when you bought the shares and when you were hired.  But unless they say otherwise, these things are separate from each other.  You still own your shares in the company regardles of whether you work there.

Yeah, they aren’t offering something out of the goodness of their hearts. But 12 weeks for a 13 year employee? I don’t know what industry you work in and I’m NAL. That might be standard severance. In my industry, severance is usually 2 weeks per year of employment. But that’s for a layoff. It sounds like the terminated you and then someone pointed out they had some risk. 

I sound like a broken record here but get a consult with a labor lawyer. Make sure you understand the terms of the settlement, including if there is some kind of non-disparagement clause. Also make sure you understand if you can file for unemployment. If you have to waive rights in order to get the package, your termination could be involuntary and therefore you get Unemployment.

You could easily spend 12 weeks pay in legal fees, especially if you are not a high earner. If your consult says take the deal, then take it and don’t look back.

All of the tenants will have the opportunity to attend a court hearing before the landlord can obtain an eviction order.  Your girlfriend is, of course, an important witness and can attend your hearing even if she is not a tenant.

What actual Washington State community do you live in ?   I'm not certain about the current state of the law or budget, but if you are low-income then you may be entitled to legal representation via the Northwest Justice Project.

Fair enough. That’s understandable.

Kids do lie about this stuff. All the time actually. But they very rarely INTENTIONALLY lie about this stuff. Her story could very well be changing because she is confused or her trauma caused her to mix up dates, people, or places.

You should not be making any claims like this online. Delete any comments like this and only discuss it with your attorney.

How many people here know about the phrase not at this address that can be written on each piece of mail as it comes in??!! 🤦🤦🤦

It is better to assume it's happening and deal with the fall out later, than not and let an abuser go. There's also a possibility that it happened years ago and is just coming out now.

I was between 4 and 6 when it happened to me and the man never got any consequences because by the time I realized what had happened, he was dead. But he lived his whole life a free man even though there was evidence he'd done it to at least one other child also. 

It is possible that she's making it up. But I would rather burn the world down and be proven wrong.  The amount of people who lie about it versus how many it actually happens to is so incredibly miniscule that it's better to believe.

Are you this guys ex girlfriend?

Based on a few facts, OP has 100% established tenancy based on Portland’s laws.

Let the police and CPS figure it out.  Something will come of it. Support her as if you believe her fully. The family member seems to understand. If you talk to them let them know that you just have to listen to your daughter and figure this out.

Also, good for you for knowing your daughter and not jumping to conclusions based on your instincts. As someone who has worked both with children and for the Juvenile court, sometimes kids make stuff up for whatever reason. They dont understand the consequences, theyre just hoping yo get what they want. The only thing that you can do is follow the investigation, see what comes out, and make sure she continues counseling either way.

I'd be very surprised if in Canada anyone is allowed to take the late brother's belongings to pay a possible debt. The items now belong to _the estate of the late brother_ and the executor is responsible for collecting all the belongings and ensuring the estate pays it's debts. 

Ignore the landlord.

I am a mother to a now 17 year old young adult who was sexually assaulted when she was 7 years old. This might sound counter intuitive on your part but please don’t be asking her questions about what she says happened. Let her know you are there for her no matter what and let the proper people ask what needs to be asked. Behavioral issues aside you asking questions can be taken the wrong way by law enforcement and CPS you don’t want or need any further scrutiny than what you may already be dealing with

And if turns out she is lying,, force the prosecutor office to press charges against her for making a false allegation.  Teach her that false allegations have severe consequences and apologize to the person that was falsely accused for believing someone you know has issues when they don't get their way instead of them when you could have waited to cut them off until there is actual evidence of something other than an accusation..

Too many people have their lives ruined over false allegations to just believe without verifying.

You REALLY want to win this one, eh? 😂

I don't care if you're a woman, I'm Canadian, we call everyone dude, guy, or bro. You could have two vaginas and I'd still call you bro. I'm also a chick. Just not a crazy chick who suggests people bury glass in their gardens. 

What alcoholic are you suggesting I need to recover from?

Will my girlfriend get to go to court before they obtain an eviction order?

For now, I'd just focus on getting your daughter whatever help she needs.

Though it happens, I think kids making up SA claims is supposed to be pretty rare.

Inconsistencies and contradictions in someone's story doesn't necessarily make it all untrue. Memory is unreliable, and that's going to probably be more so in a kid who's recalling a traumatic memory.

Not sure how close you are to the 30yr old family member, but if you haven't already told them or they don't already know, you should get word to them that they need to not contact you or your daughter until further notice from you. If they are innocent, then it sucks for them but they are an adult and need to handle it. If your daughter is telling the truth, I'm sure she'd be traumatized by you (or your partner) continuing to talk to her abuser.

Do you have a right to live there for a short period of time before she evicts you? Sure.

Would it be incredibly stupid for you to call the cops, get let back in and demand to stay? Absolutely. Especially as a man.

She can get you out in a second and instead of it being on your own free will it will be in handcuffs with a restraining order. It doesn’t have to be right. It doesn’t have to be something she can prove. It doesn’t even have to be her that calls. It could be a neighbor that heard her yelling. It could be a friend that she doesn’t text back because she’s arguing with you or it could be hard depending on how spiteful she is.  

The apartment isn’t in your name get your shit and let it go. Someday you will be counting your blessings that all you had to do was go get a new place. It was her place to start with anyways. If you paid June (which it looks like you didn’t) Sue her for it. 

And yes, before anyone gets upset, I would be giving the same exact advice to a woman and have. Except that advice would probably look more like “ do you wanna put yourself at physical risk? Just stay with a friend or family member and go get your own place.”

It seems just willing to give your stuff back. Just let it go. You’ve really lost nothing here.

And inconsistencies & contradictions are the FIRST big giant red flag a person is lying. If you're telling the truth, the story does not change or contradict previous statements.

Correct me if I’m wrong. During the marriage he worked and she did not. He paid all the bills. That was an arrangement that suited them at the time. Once they separate half of all the bills are hers to pay. Anything she doesn’t pay gets deducted from her settlement. The longer she jerks him around the more the bills pile up and the less she gets. Ask Betty Broderick

Your daughter is going to be scarred for life if you don’t take this seriously. Ask me how I know.

have you considered her story is changing because it was so traumatizing that she blocked pieces of the incident from her mind and is trying to piece it back together now?

Kids don’t lie about this stuff. Your daughter is 10. If you don’t face the courage to stance up for her then say that instead of saying “her story keeps changing”.

I hate to tell you, but unfortunately teenage girls DO make false accusations. Pissed off teenage girls, especially those with pre-existing behavior problems have made false accusations against family members in the past, some have had their lives ruined, only to have the girl recent years later. There are teenage girls out there that are downright scary. That do things with total disregard for the consequences, apparently without any conscience at all.

Is PA Power of Attorney? If so, you can remove yourself from being a Power of Attorney (PoA)

The bottom line is the best thing you do is keep your kid in counseling. Let the investigation run its course. If there’s no merit to the accusation, no one is going to get in trouble. They’re not going to throw someone in jail for a loose accusation. They’ll investigate, and if they choose to arrest the family member, odds are they have good reason to.  So I wouldn’t be too worried about someone getting in trouble if they are innocent.

Sometimes children who have been SA'd will accuse an innocent adult because the real perpetrator is too scary/powerful/threatening or close to their parents/siblings. Sometimes they are really trying to express that something bad happened to them in any way they can, and so they choose a less threatening adult because they feel safer. Unfortunately this can result in breaking up family/friend relationships and distrust for both sides, and an innocent person is dragged into the situation.  
We don't know your situation at all, but this looks likely to be complex and difficult.

This OP ⬆️ She may have been CSA prior to this person which caused the behavioral issues. 

As a survivor of CSA, I can tell you it is really really hard for a child to tell on someone about this. Generally the perpetrator will make the victim feel like they will get the blame, no one will believe them, or everyone will hate them. It’s extremely difficult to get up the courage to tell an adult. Behavior issues can develop really unexpected such as lashing out or lying.   The absolute best thing you as a parent can do for your child, is find a licensed therapist/psychologist that specializes in CSA. They can also help you navigate reporting it. Please don’t just take her once, as it sounds  like she will benefit from talking to a professional.  

Even if the allegations against this family member aren’t true, there may be someone else that did something.  I know it has to be hard for you, but your daughter really needs your love, support and willingness to help her fight whatever demons she may be facing.  (NAL, just a survivor)

The DCSD website said CRIMINAL HOMICIDE, among other charges. My sister swears the girl didn’t die but last time I checked it still said homicide.

This is dramatically incorrect.

Unless the parents have court ordered guardianship over her, there's nothing they can do. You can ignore them.

A plea bargain is the most likely outcome, with either "pretrial diversion" or a probation sentence for a lesser charge.

You *want* pretrial diversion.   Do it even if it's uncomfortable or costly or time-consuming, because the outcome is that you won't have a conviction on your record.

Even misdemeanor convictions, even in a progressive state like Illinois, can very badly damage your employability.   If you're already scraping by, risking a conviction on your record because you don't want to submit to probation conditions is a bad idea.

Agree. I’m a civil attorney but spent significant time in law school working for the DA’s office as an intern in the CSA unit and it is wildly uncommon for children to make this kind of stuff up. You should be speaking to a therapist, putting her in therapy, and speaking with law enforcement instead of worrying about the alleged accuser over your own daughter, OP.

Have you ever experienced trauma as a young child to know how they may be processing the trauma and shock.  You need to be less concerned that she’s making up a story and more concerned as to why. 
Kids that seek out negative attention are typically doing so as negative attention is at least attention so why is she so desperately trying to get attention?

I think the package is your question to her

False allegations are rare. For kids to lie about SA is between 2-10%. Follow the process and keep an open mind.

Not a lawyer. Sounds like you need one. It might be expensive. Would be more expensive to not get one and risk him losing his access to benefits.

Don’t let the divorce become final with your name on her bills. Although she may be ordered to refinance in her own name there’s no guarantee she will. If she’s unable to then she sells the house and the car right now

My ten year old knows what sexual assault is because we've talked to her from a young age in hopefully age-appropriate ways about what's not okay for people to do to her. I don't think that's uncommon.

What if she's not lying?

SA or SVU investigators are very good at detecting inconsistencies & lies. Let them interview her, they'll be able to tell if she's being truthful or not. At least, that's how it is in my area. I worked in a group home where a resident accused a neighbor of SA. The  house manager took her to file charges (knowing she was lying, but seeing how far this girl would take things), we have a SVU unit in our town, they interviewed her, quickly determined "she's lying her ass off" to quote the detective. They can tell, it's not the first time investigators have dealt with this. They don't just run out willy nilly & arrest someone.

The person she’s accused may not be who actually harmed her,  but there could have been previous trauma that was partially suppressed and something about this relative has brought it close enough to the surface for her. 

If nothing happened with this relative then focus on your daughter and it will take time and effort but your only goal should be to make sure she knows that no matter what happened you are here to support here and keep her safe.

ok thank you, this post was way more kind than some other ones. yeah no more stuff like this. it was probably 300 or under overall

I’m sorry this is happening to you. You might have better luck with r/legaladvicecanada. I’m not a lawyer and don’t have any personal experience I can use to advise you in this matter, but hopefully someone else can give you some guidance

It could be a different person entirely.

It's very common for accusations from very troubled kids to be about the wrong person, someone safer to accuse for whatever reason. Early CSA, especially for kids under 4, can really fuck up how memories are stored as a whole, not just the ones of abuse. It's possible that her body remembers something in a shape that her mind, likely not fully deliberately, has interpolated onto somebody else.

Keep in mind,  just because it's improbable that your family member SAed her doesn't mean someone else didnt

This has to be ragebait.

Your post suggests strongly that you are a frequent or habitual shoplifter, so is is appropriate to be concerned that Target loss prevention followed their notorious process of waiting until you had accumulated a felony value of stolen merchandise.

In Illinois, those values are fairly low:  $300-$2000 is a level 4 felony, and over $2000 is a level 3.

When you are assigned a public defender, they will examine the packet of evidence and the charges.   That might include actual video, or just a summary of the basis for the charge.

Then your PD will interview you.   They might not actually ask you about the details of what and when you stole from Target:  answer only the questions they ask you, but be candid when you do.

will I go to jail [...] first time going to court

Jail is unlikely in a Chicagoland county, even for felony shoplifting.

what do I do because money is so tight

Examine your recollection of the things that you stole from Target and try to figure out if they are available second-hand, from charities, or if you can do without them.

Doesn’t mean she couldn’t have been being abused by someone else.  You need to take her to a specialized therapist to sort out the cause of the behavioral issues, regardless of the current incident is true, she leaned about this type of trauma somewhere.  And don’t forget any type of assault or abuse can have such a devastating effect that memories or portions of the incident may have been blocked out.

Some Fun Facts for You:

Kids experiencing sexual abuse may act out in several ways as a reaction to that trauma. 

They also may accuse unrelated people, sometimes of unrelated acts, for various reasons, including as an attempt to alert adults that something is wrong, even if they can't say what specifically or who is doing it. 

Kids as young as 1 month have been sexually abused by family members. 

Other mental illnesses/disorders (adhd, anxiety, depression, etc.) can cause acting out, for sure. They can also make acting out from trauma much worse than normal or make acting out from trauma seem like more of just the status quo. 

Your daughter having behavioral issues since she was young does not mean she's making this up. It could mean it's been going on longer than you'd like to admit. It could mean she also needs a diagnosis. It does not mean she's lying. 

But I need you to really ask yourself: 

Do you want to be the parent that your daughter never trusts again because you didn't protect her?

And more importantly:

Do you want to be the parent that ignored your own daughter being abused? If you don't stop it, who will? Not the person abusing her, that's for sure. It will continue and you will have let it. Even if it doesn't continue with your own daughter, it'll continue with a different child and it'll be on you. 

Can you live with that?

I just wanted to know if anyone knew the process.. I haven’t been through anything like this before, holy fuck.

I’m not a lawyer but I’ve worked with kids a lot in my life, including on the mental health and legal ends of things, and here’s my two cents:

It’s not impossible for kids to lie, obviously - most kids lie all the time. But it’s pretty unusual for young children to make serious accusations of harm with no basis in truth, and that’s even more true when they say they’ve suffered sexual violence, because without firsthand experience, most 10 year olds don’t even know sexual violence is a thing that exists. And in the rare cases when children do say someone’s hurt them and it’s not true, it’s usually their way of coping with the knowledge that someone else in their nuclear family is being hurt in that way, which is still cause for serious action. It makes a lot of sense that your daughter would have severe behavioral issues if she’s suffering abuse. Behavioral issues don’t mean she’s lying.

Please, please, please believe your daughter. It’s very unlikely she’s lying about someone sexually assaulting her, and even about your father hurting her. Like someone else said, in the very unlikely case that she’s spinning these stories from whole cloth, that truth will come out. You have to be on her side here.

I feel for you. You’re in a tough ass situation. Keep your head up and trust the process. If she’s lying have an apology ready and waiting for the accused. If not then you did the right thing from the start.

This is great advice even if it isn’t true.

Sheesh I said the areas that can’t be excavated should be layered after raking.  That’s valid.   If you are experienced as you say then you will know that many fine historic properties of homes built 100+ years ago like mine will contain glass that was used as fill. The glass is there. All the time.  under layers.

I have 3 daughters. Ive been the only parent their whole lives and i know when these little girls have something off going on with them. I call it every time. My oldest lashes out a lot though & has since she was very young, she has a weird flip & this is what I’m seeing. I’m not trying to come off as Ive expressed to her that I don’t believe her. I am scared that she is lying though & im afraid that someone who isn’t deserving is going to get in trouble for something they didn’t do.

I looked at all the packages. She has nothing that doesn’t have her name on it.

Just place physical evidence within public service that can be easily retrieved in crisis, this can be a good preparation that your future self might require it

ok. on the citation it says retail theft and then there’s an unintelligible word that says like under or vendor and then nothing after that so i’m confused

Find someone with a portable loam screener and pay them to come to your yard, excavate, screen, and leave on site if the vacuum trick doesn't work for you. Busy did this for his yard that he bought as an empty lot. Worked a treat and cheaper than excavating and trucking it out and then needing to buy new fill/loam for your entire yard

1. Yes

2. Very possibly yes. It would depending on the specific charge / degree or “class” of felony and the dollar value. I would estimate if you go to jail it’s between probably going to be 1-3 years but there would be some time on strict probation / parole likely included on top of that along with community service and counseling and some classes etc (and fees / fines). With luck and good behavior and being a model prisoner of sorts you can get out early 

Even if you don’t go to jail, you are looking at very extensive and intrusive probation for years / maybe some kind of house arrest or halfway house / required drug and alcohol testing along with community service and fines etc. probably some combination of all or most of that along with taking a plea deal for a misdemeanor (if one is offered) is the best case scenario for you

There's two scenarios. One they caught you dead to rights from concealment to leaving. But if you've been stealing from them before, especially if you opened packages and just took the item they knew who you were and coordinated with the police. 

It doesn't have to be felony level, just what local police will actually show up and the DA will actually do something about. Many won't show in a big city for petty shoplifting. Other places they're bored and will show up for less.

This is the only sane answer, OP.

When did I say op is lying? Reading comprehension is necessary. What I do know is a child is a child who relies on their PARENT to protect them. OP admitted that detectives haven’t even talked to the accused yet and CPS just left. How about professionals do their jobs before coming onto Reddit asking bullshit?

I'm not on IG so might not exist.  

Take yourself private.  No discloser that you even have an ID.  I know Facebook has the capability - mine is that way.  Then you can post that there is a stalker out there.  

You also need to look in your group of contacts.  Someone in there could be the stalker.

Read your post back to yourself. Maybe out loud…. You’ve made up your mind that she’s not telling the truth. When you just also said detectives haven’t talked to the accused yet. You’re not a cpi and you’re not a detective. So let them do their jobs before you paint the picture of your kid is a liar when maybe your family member really is a pedo

Absolutely. I haven’t expressed that I don’t believe her to her. I’ve come here to ask for advice on how this goes and what the process is because I have doubts.

not being accusatory, just curious, how do you know it never happened? is that something you can 10000% prove?

Not her orders, just ask her for packages that she didn't open and see

If there is some then take a picture

I don't know that glass counts as hazmat legally....

The lead from bullets might though

Weird you automatically assume OP is lying when you know nothing about them or their kid beyond this post.

The family member wasn’t around at the beginning of her behavioral issues. We didn’t live in the same state

Thats pretty shittly, my first thought is rent a loader and scrape off the the top layer and add fill dirt/plant natives

I don't see why they would if they no longer exist. 

My spouse paid off a ton of debt his ex brought into their marriage and got no "credit" for that when splitting assets. All that seems to matter in VA is current account balances. It's ridiculous.

Who said I’m automatically assuming?? I have spoken to her myself. Her story changes every time. She is also in counseling

To put it as nicely as possible. Your screwed if you got busted at target. They have some of the most sophisticated surveillance gear to rival even the government. Person saying you got caught every time is 100% correct 

Dont admit to how much or how many times you have shoplifted on here. 

But be prepared for the book to be thrown at you... 

Im sorry you chose target. Horrible place for shenanigans homie...

wtf!!! Aren’t u worried for ur daughter if its true

Probably because you shoplifted enough they deemed it necessary to build a case and press charges. They don’t go through the trouble of this for a one time offense

Coming from a family who didn't support me and I was telling the truth....don't do that to your daughter.

Trust no one specifically the courts

Weird you automatically assume your kid is lying. Let the investigation run its course. Cooperate. That’s what CPS and detectives are for. Maybe get your kid into counseling. But if it did in fact happen and you’re accusing your kid of lying, don’t be surprised when your relationship with your daughter is a dumpster fire. Weird take from the parent though. Have you asked yourself if my kid wasn’t actually sa’d, why does my 10 yo know what sa is…..?

I work in EPA lead compliance and I second this. Especially if you have children that play outside or plan to grow any food on your property. You can take soil samples yourself and send them to a lab, it shouldn't be too expensive. What is expensive is lead abatement when it needs to be done to a whole yard, so obviously, make a paper trail and keep that in mine when reviewing the contract advice in this thread.

Some kids really make stuff up.

I genuinely do not like hitting her. I’ve never believed in it as I was beaten as a child & I felt like I was able to parent better than that.

Is your girlfriend a tenant, or a guest ?

They must provide a written notice to terminate your tenancy on such an expedited basis.   It doesn't have to include a lot of proof of a crime, unfortunately.

They cannot lock you out until they have delivered a written notice and gone to court to obtain an eviction order.

I know for a fact my girlfriend would not steal this package

Unless you were present or have examined the package in person, then you know what you believe she *would* do, not what she actually did.

It’s a very common symptom of CSA

This time?  Obviously not your first time. Better lawyer up or this will be on your record forever.

You can hire your own therapist to talk to the child. In fact, you absolutely should do that anyways. 

Remember, the detectives and CPS are not therapist even if they act like ones.

This is not a legal issue.

It’s entirely possible (and probable) that your daughter has behavioural issues because she is being sexually abused

You have to believe her. Take it seriously, cut off the abuser, and just follow the process. Therapy. Police. The whole nine. If, God forbid, she is lying, the truth WILL come out, but you'll have supported your daughter and will deal with it on the other side. 

Believe her. Please.

I've professionally remediated construction sites and installed gardens in places that were at one point full of busted concrete, scrap metal, and shattered glass. What you're suggesting is just not a reasonable or safe way of doing it for themselves, or any future owners of this property. 

Since this is a legal sub, can I get a lawyer up in here to TELL THIS GUY NOT TO SUGGEST PEOPLE BURY GLASS IN THEIR YARDS please?

I am really sorry this is happening, and I am sure it is quite distressing. Honestly, though, and this is no help now I know, this is why you always get a survey done when purchasing a home. If your real estate agent didn’t encourage you to do that, they suck.

Everyone has their line and this breaks some basic NRA rules. 

Would hope it was just a BB gun.

[ Removed by Reddit ]

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Resignation = zero unemployment benefits.

I offered proof of every package tracking number she ordered over this time frame. Guy at the office didn’t want to hear anything

It’s like a 2010 SeaDoo Bombardier Jetski it doesn’t even run, I would have to fix it up.

The only reason why he ls selling it is bc of the trailer bc it’s worth $500

My daughter has had behavioral issues since she was young & has been in therapy consistently through her life. She has said my dad beat her & it never happened.

I'm not on the lease

Are you an authorized subletter or occupant ?   Do you pay rent directly to the property owner/manager, or solely to your girlfriend ?

everything in the apartment is mine

And it still is.

What is the outcome you want ?    Do you want her to be excluded from her rented apartment ?   Do you want to be allowed back in permanently, at least until the lease ends ?   Do you want her to peaceably let you remove everything from the apartment ?

Police will often provide a "civil standby" to allow you to retrieve your essential items from your rented premises.   But they're not going to stand there and keep the peace for the time it takes for you to pack up and move a whole apartment full of stuff.

You might be able to sue your girlfriend for the value of all of your things if she won't let you remove them.   Or sue her for the cost of temporary housing.

But first you should identify a practical outcome that will suit you.

It sounds like he assumes his daughter is making up bullshit, actually.

Only a judge can decide that.

If you are not on the lease you have no standing. You can take her to court providing documents showing everything you bought but it will be a long process. Are you on any utilities?

Who knows? Do you have a public defender?

Hight chance it wasn't her but to believe you,

evidence is truth

People make mistakes when they are confused

take it that way and we all know mistakes happen

ask her for her recent packages that she didn't open

and send it to them for confirmation

they will be limited in what they can do

when you cooperate

Next time (hopefully there won't be one), it's "no comment", "am I being detained?", and "I would like lawyer"

The comment above I was responding to said « *I know this is a legal advice sub but what does remediation look like even ? Do you remove the top x feet of soil and replace?*.    I would not assume that you get a high figure recovery from an alcoholic who shoots bottles for funsies and if you get 20k from him and don’t want to spend it all on just the excavator you could prioritize some areas for excavation and others for raking and lasagna

Hi there, am a lawyer but not your lawyer.

Speed racing in Oregon is a class A traffic violation, which has a $2000 max fine.

This violation is one of the "Driver Improvement" violations, meaning:
DMV will restrict your driving license (no driving between 12 midnight and 5 am) for 30 days if you have:
Three convictions, or
Three preventable accidents, or
A combination that totals three in an 24-month period.
DMV will suspend your license for 30 days if you have:
Five convictions, or
Five preventable accidents, or
A combination that totals five in a 24-month period.

There's no automatic license suspension I can see except as listed above, so if you already have two covered convictions within 24 months you might get your license restricted if convicted this time, or if you already have 4 then you might get your license suspended.

Your insurance is going up regardless if convicted.

Your call if you want to fight it or not; there's no jail time on the menu for these facts.

They told us verbally 3 days notice. Nothing written yet. I was told over the phone she was told in person. I’m going in to leasing office tomorrow

You got caught every time. You got detained this time.

You left your wallet in an unlocked car? That might be why the police think you’re involved. Accurate deductive reasoning isn’t terribly common with most police, from what I hear. Score too high on the psych/IQ testing? Sorry, no place in law enforcement for those people.

Sounds like you’re covering for the abuser.

Then to answer your questions
1) yes. But that's between the government and him. Not really something you can force them to ensure. 
2)  you can get a bonded title
3) see 1. You can see which agency will enforce the title jumping but that doesn't get you a title. 

The answer you didn't ask, the other option is to sue him in small claims court to either give you a good title or unwind the sale (give it back/get your money.

Did you have 3 days notice or have you known for 30 days?

ohh.. so you think i got detained cuz i got caught this time or because i racked up a felony?

Did you take pictures and videos? Get a statement from the clerk? Ensure they save their video recordings. I’d also call the police and file a report, if they let you file one. Then call your insurance to report this.

i mean i got caught and confessed in the store and to the officer because it was so obvious but i don’t lu confessed to this time. and i can’t afford an attorney so i might try to use the public one at court ….

Yes, target builds cases on people and monitors for shoplifting to catch repeat offenders. My sister works for target and she tells me stories all the time of how their loss prevention operates and when they make their move to finally press charges of detain shoplifters with local police.

Really great questions to consider. 

It's hard because I'd hate to go down this road and make things worse, but I also don't want them to escalate by doing nothing. Will definitely need to weigh the options with an attorney. Thank you so much!

If your name is not on the lease it’s a bad spot. You are essentially a friend crashing on the couch. The lease may prohibit additional inhabitants but if they are friends with the landlord then they probably don’t care. This doesn’t meet any CO adverse squatter laws.

You need a lawyer and you need them now. Do not speak to the police until you have retained one.

Target is well known for doing exactly what you have read.

The answer to this is somewhat dependent on state law. The primary negligent party is the person who shot themselves in the head.  With their own gun.  Clearly accidental.  But still either negligent or reckless on their part.  

They may - depending - have also violated some criminal laws.  Can they legally even own a firearm? Are they a felon.  Was the firearm recovered?  Will a hospital blood draw show them high? Drunk?  Etc...  If they also broke the law in even having the gun that could be important detail to consider.  

You hopefully have homeowners insurance and some type of business insurance.  They should be notified immediately of a possible claim.   If you have homeowners but not business; there could be an exclusion from the homeowners policy so homeowners alone would not cover anything since this happened during a commercial use assuming you get paid for use of the studio or mixing or whatever it is you do.  If they have their own health insurance that would be helpful but that insurer may try to come after you somehow...hence why you need to notify your insurance carrier sooner rather than later.   The policy may even require it.  The fact that you know some of your clients are 'bad people' is not helpful here.  I would consider deleting this post.  

This was obviously a terrible accident.  But its going to be a very expensive one as far as medical bills etc....  A missouri licensed civil attorney needs to be contacted and consulted to let you know what your actual liability risk is.

There are multiple parts to your post:

1. On the EOB, there will be a denial code or codes for the G0330 or 48999/00170. These are the codes used for facility charges and anesthesia. Depending on the carrier, they’ll use one or the other. The denial may be due to lack of pre authorization, it may be due to medical necessity, non-covered by the plan, or the facility is not in network.

2. Marketplace plans often come with narrow networks. Was the children’s hospital in network. With a bill as large as you’re referencing, it sounds like this may be an issue. The dental provider usually does the pre authorization for the outpatient surgery center at the hospital. Was network status missed? If out of network, a gap exception and case fee arrangement have to be completed.

3. Marketplace medical plan pediatric dental covers preventive care, sometimes restorative care, not the hospital outpatient charges and anesthesia. That’s always covered by the medical plan. 

4. Medical necessity - this goes back to the denial reason. Many medical policies cover children under the age of 5 for large amount of work to be done. The duration of your child’s surgery sounds like an extensive amount of work was completed. You also mentioned they had to be seen at the hospital for a reason. Depending on the diagnosis or underlying condition(s) that meets medical necessity. Most cases deal with large scope of work, possibly abscesses, dental anxiety, ADHD/Autism/behavior, and patient safety (treatment could not be completely successfully due to patient behavior). A communication to these factors almost always results in authorization of planned work.

Do you really think an idiot that would be shooting glass in his yard would really care about safety?

What reason do you have to believe he is a gang member? Why do you think they would spend their time on you for staring or taking garbage for years?

Also, it sounds like this stopped a couple of years back. Why the sudden interest in pursuing a legal remedy?

I'm sure there's more to the story.

Bad news - insurance will likely pin this mostly on your dad. The rear-ending driver almost always gets tagged with primary fault, especially when they're mid-lane-change. Even if the Camry made a panic move, your dad had the duty to maintain control and avoid hitting whatever ended up in front of him.

  
The Camry might catch some percentage for the unsafe lane change, but dont count on it being significant. Insurance adjusters see "rear-end during lane change" and their default is to blame the trailing driver. The dashcam might help show the Camry's erratic driving, but it probably wont flip the fault determination.

  
Your dad checking mirrors during a lane change is normal driving behavior, but it wont excuse the collision from an insurance perspective. They'll say he should have been able to react to changing traffic conditions even while changing lanes.

What’s Texas got to do with this?

Your attorney will review your case and can help you figure out the jurisdictional issues. Interjurisdictional stalking may also violate the federal stalking statute, 18 U.S.C. § 2261A. 

I agree that it's deeply concerning that someone with this level of unhinged vindictiveness works with small children. Legal pros will be able to look at evidence to determine which crimes she has committed, her pattern of behavior, and help you weigh the pros and cons of what could happen if you were to press charges.

That would be a question I would ask your attorney -- "if this was your spouse, would you press charges? What kinds of issues could crop up down the road if we press charges? If we DON'T press charges?" that type of thing.

It was a personal contract without attorneys…

This is a legal sub. They're asking for ways to make the original seller cover this obvious violation. THEY won't be paying for this, the SELLER will. Who gives a flying squirrel if it costs $30K, if the original owner has to pay them back that money from the sale proceeds. They're not looking for the gardening tips you've learned on YouTube, and the information you're spreading is dangerous.

I get that it feels as real as anything else in your life. But gang stalking really isn't thing. It's a common symptom of mental illness.

You can argue with him yourself and try to negotiate a price he’ll accept. Or you turn it into your insurance and let them argue over pre-existing damage. Yes he’s probably trying to scam you for extra cash, but keeping insurance out of it means he can try to take you personally to court and you’ll have to burn a day or two convincing a judge all of his repairs weren’t your fault.

Did he show you the survey report?  Besides getting your own survey, you should (probably) be able to get a copy from your county or city records office.

It does meet the requirements.  The whole reason for purchasing it was to drive it to the beach.

For most people it’s not realistic to excavate 1.5 acres and replace 12 inches of the soil. I suggested they can splurge on key areas for the dogs and fam. Then have options to remediate with free abundant materials if replacing  entire 1.5 acres is not realistic

You're completely right, what you suggested are legit ways of managing gardens. 

They are not ways of dealing with something dangerous in your soil, though.

Does the cart follow the low speed vehicle definition by the dmv?

Toll stations read license plates not VIN numbers. Don't quite see how this is possible unless you're running somebody else's old plate.. in this state they're not transferable I don't know about where you're at.. I know in Michigan plates used to go with the car..

This is completely real man I don't know what to say I get that it doesn't sound real but it's the God honest truth and sure normal people probably won't notice you staring but these people are drug dealers and have alot of people living in one house and I did it maybe for a week straight every day .

How many drugs are they taking?

They have to fence an area for the dogs in light of the shards of glass everywhere.   If they have money to excavate the whole property then diy remediation is not required. The comment above asked what remediation can look like.  Excavation and replacing your entire yard is the obvious scenario.  The one I described is legit way of managing gardens and grounds with widely available and mostly free materials that become rich soil for gardens and lawns

IANAL, but the Texas Deceptive Trade Practices Act (DTPA) does protect buyers when sellers intentionally conceal or fail to disclose a known defect, and it is from the date of discovery, not sale, as far as I'm aware. The seller committed fraud to induce a sale. You'll likely have a good case and should talk to a Real Estate Attorney.

Nah. They're fine for crew-served weapons, but that doesn't mean you should trust them with an excavator.

They have pets. The entire yard is important.

Thank you!

He actually did file a police report during the first round, but like most police reports, it didn't go anywhere. Although I'm glad we have the paper trail. 

Ah yes, this definitely sounds like erotomania. From her messages, it sounds like she believes they're in love and in a serious relationship. Really helpful to have the psychological perspective, especially to validate not responding

Another disturbing note is that she works in childcare at a preschool. We have no plans to contact them or mess with her job, but it is really unsettling to know she's so unwell and working with young children!

Dude, I'm a professional horticulturist. I know what both of those things are. I've regularly employed them. What you are suggesting is not realistic in this situation.

I believe this is the first time that I’ve seen anyone use the term “business end” appropriately.

The cardboard degrades in layers of leaves and meanwhile your dogs are not walking on glass.  Look up no till and lasagna solutions

I understand this is not the advice you're looking for, but what you're describing isn't a legal issue. What you're describing is a mental health issue. And it's a fairly common one. If you haven't sought behavior health care, this would be a really good time to try it.

Would it matter? I’m genuinely asking and mean not to come off as disrespectful. I’m assuming so since you asked, would you care to explain why or what would make a difference before I give a definitive answer?

Hence the part about prioritizing areas of importance.   Others can be lower priority and mulch overtime.  Look it up. You’ll see tons on »lasagna » style layer gardening for remediation

First of all nothing actually happened here, second of all you definitely seem to be going crazy and this is not a real thing.

Nobody can tell that you looked at their house, and if a gang wanted to do something to you over a ten year period they would have done more than stare and steal your bikes.

Your divorce decree should have addressed this.  Guessing it didn't

Defending yourself would be something in the sense I didn't do this. It's possible the prosecutor will offer you something but lawyers can get a better plea deal. Anything like speed racing will cost you well more than that in insurance over the next 7 years.

Leases are the easiest thing in the world to break, I wish more people knew it. Landlords themselves are often unaware of how many codes they are in violation of. 
 
Anyway, can’t get in any trouble for reporting evidence backed information to a potential tenant about harmful materials or conditions. In fact, the landlord could face ramifications if they do not disclose it themselves.
I’d love to see them try to enforce that contract they got you to sign as they cover up a black mold problem to a family.

Cover the yard in topsoil and new grass seed and move forward

What is the history of the property? Was it inherited? Does she believe she is a co-owner?

Contact a local attorney who can help you, and they may have resources or suggestions for when to involve another legal professional in New York. I definitely would not ignore this and hope that she just goes away. 

It sounds like your husband never sought prosecution or filed any police reports during the first round, and then 7 years later something has caused her to start targeting him again. It is important to meet with your legal professional to gather facts and build a timeline. From there, your attorney can start to review statutes and help you decide how to document her behavior so that the legal system can intervene. 

Follow the advice of your attorney, but I would never contact the stalker or her family, ever, for any reason. From what you are describing, she probably has a condition like erotomania, which is common in stalkers (in the DSM-V it is a subset or type of delusional disorder). From what you describe, she also has other comorbid conditions that further complicate the case. 

There is a famous portrayal of this type of erotomanical stalking in the Netflix series "Baby Reindeer". In that lightly fictionalized account, any attempts that Richard made to try to convince Martha to leave him alone only added fuel to the fire and he made things immeasurably worse for himself. He was also at a severe disadvantage because the police refused to take his complaints seriously. You are in California, where hopefully anti-stalking laws will help protect you.

I think 1gig refers to the speed not the usage

And here I am thinking I’m the only person that has needed to vacuum their lawn.

It's very likely you signed paperwork before the screening. You'd need to look at that and see what you gave permission to share. But if it was a pre-employment screening, then it seems pretty unsurprising that the results went to your employer.

Another lawyer actually messaged me something similar. This is so helpful, thank you!

I was thinking of the cross-state issue being a barrier, but maybe that'll actually help us.

I didn't even think about that part 😂

In PA, PFAs are not automatically reciprocal. Meaning the plaintiff can contact the defendant without any punishment. Is it a reason for it to be dismissed? Probably not. Especially if the contact was to make you aware that your child was injured. If the contact was constant, bordering on harassment, and you are able to produce phone records? Possibly, depending on the rest of the testimony presented.
Get a lawyer.

Get your own survey, then get a lawyer.

This is gonna depend heavily on what the service contract says. 

They warned you that the work you were asking them to do had a risk and you had them do it anyways which would at least remove some possible liability from them. Then there is also the gem was already damaged that likely lowers it’s monetary value significantly even if you didn’t mind it. 

My suspicion is that their contract will be pretty iron class that they don’t have liability. Also a decent chance that disputes about it must be done under arbitration. 

But if it isn’t enough to be worth asking a lawyer about to see what your odds are you could always try small claims as you say. If nothing else then not wanting to deal with court might get you a better offer even if you would lose in court.

That'd be a real shame. Wouldn't have bought the place if i knew

Is this even remotely legal?

It depends on what was unredacted. WA, as far as I know, only really requires reporter information to be kept confidential as well as any third-party information that is required to be confidential by other laws (Like HIPAA and FERPA).

All this does is teach them how they can get away with everything easier, and puts the children and people who spoke out about them in danger.

While I can agree there might be some concerns here, though only really if you think people aren't capable of changing. Parent's also have a right to know what happened in their case. Children **also** have a right to request CPS records on their case when they hit a certain age.

I thought there was no possible way they would be able to get ahold of the names, with exceptions for if the case went to court?

It all depends on the context of who the people named were and how they were involved with the investigation.

Even sketchier dont do shit without a bill of sale from the actual owner this is raising huge red flags honestly. 

If you get that bill of sale get it on video cause this is sending all sorts of flags to me for a 500 ski in good condition cause im in the new England area and that's super cheap for a good condition low mileage ski

Do you have the receipt for it? Check online receipts too. If so file a police report.

We also had to take a shop vac to our yard when our neighbor had a medical emergency and drove their car into a tree in our yard. There was glass everywhere but the shop vac did a great job.

I’m imagining 1.5 acres of cardboard. lolz

I don’t understand why you think restraining orders are hard to get? You don’t need a lawyer you can go to your local PD and bring all the evidence and have them write up a formal police report. Then tell her you had a police report written and stop contacting. As she will continue to send things after that, record everything and then file for a restraining order. Then you get a court date and explain to the judge.

I'm so sorry you're going through this. 

Cross-state cyber stalking is a federal crime, which may actually help your case. That could escalate this from a civil restraining order to a criminal cyberstalking crime. In that case the FBI could potentially get involved. 

You can also file a CHRO which protects CA residents even when the harasser is in another state. I think you have a decent shot tbh.

The took it without my permission.

Explain, concisely, what the item is and how they came to possess it.  

What state was the item in when she took possession of it ?

she is currently residing in NYC for the month being

If she will still be in NYC when you can get a court date, you can sue her there.    If she returns to Massachusetts, you can sue her there.

That's my plan in the morning but he showed up like an hour ago so no one is open yet

Ok, I will look into the bill of sale because idk how I would get this neighbors signature. I title washing is illegal.

Or maybe I can find the “neighbor”

This is in a small rural town where the highway cuts through the center, the typical speed is 65mph but through town it is lowered to 35-25mph. But yeah that is still significantly less than the roads I've driven in Texas lol.

I don't know about terminating your lease, but you do need to figure out alternative living arrangements until you are certain there is no leaks. Call and talk to your gas company and/or the fire department about what your options are so you are not living in an apartment that is unsafe to reside in or could potentially blow up. If you have renters insurance you should be involving them. Please stop staying if your apartment if your gas is on and someone other than your apartment maintenance hasn't verified there is no leak. Also... You should have working carbon monoxide detectors. They should be throwing fits about the gas leaks.

Once again, it is NOT part of your employee file. 

And FYI, failing to follow internal policy isn't itself unlawful.

The jetski is clean, the title has been checked, it just seemed like he wanted to keep it for sum reason 🤷‍♂️ 

The guy is also in his 30s living his parents basement…😂

Wow. And to think you have to be going 75-80 mph to get on a freeway in Dallas or Houston,  Texas.

Your title insurance may still help you out.

Look up whether adverse possession is relevant where you are.  Some states allow you to use the time the prior owner used the property as part of this.

Personally, I'd be looking to pay a lawyer at least an initial consultation fee to know real next steps as opposed to relying on reddit.

What about children with heavy equipment?

Decinitely think you should contact an attorney.

If they're offering you something thats way out of line with what they normally give terminated employees and they want you to give up your right to an ADA claim, its a good bet they think you have a legitimate claim

NAL. Get your own survey but, in the end, you only own the property that the survey says you own. If the person who owns the warehouse also owns the fence and bush he can do whatever he likes with it. You can put up a fence at your property line.

I didn't say it "void[ed] the restraining order."  The restraining order is against her, not him, and he doesn't need permission to contact her.  Any court would understand why he did so from an ER.  

Courts are not set up to handle true emergencies, especially after hours, and there was no reason to go to the court here because the restraining order wasn't against him.  

Having a third party relay information is 1) unnecessary and 2) is the same thing as doing it himself in the eyes of the court and law.

So, look carefully at your arrangement with the staffing company.  They could be the ones liable to reclassify you if you want to go that route.  

But you’re going to, if anything, get onto their payroll as w2, their health plan, their 401k, etc.  which is usually skeletal in structure.  If nothing else, if you’ve been at the location company, where you actually work, you could start inquiring if there is a conversion opportunity.   There could be, but there could also be a minimum wait time so that the third party staffing firm gets a share of your pay for x number of months first so they recoup their investment of locating you. 

Best of luck on this!

Shocked the police didnt deal with it. Glad he took himself out before he killed someone.

This sounds like the fantasy ramblings of someone who's never done any real landscaping before. 

How do you plan to account for drainage, now that your yard is higher than your house? 

How do you plan to install plants, now that the ground is a minefield of hidden finger-shredders a foot or two down?

How do you plan to re-attach your dog's toes, the first time he tries to bury something?

How do you plan to explain to the next buyers of the house that they can absolutely not ever dig in the backyard, without them thinking you're a serial killer?

They stated they did not document it. If it is part of my employee records, isnt it? What if I wanted to pursue things further, and theres just NO record of it, at all? how is THAT legal

Could also get a de-thatch attachment for a lawn mower. Cut and bag clippings - nice and short. Then follow up with a de-thatch and pull up most items. Just be sure to bag everything. May take a few times but combined with some other ideas for vacuuming up shards it might help. And be cheaper than the quote.

That's a pretty narrow view - emergencies don't automatically void restraining orders and there are proper legal channels for this stuff. If he really needed to contact her about their son's medical situation, he should've gone through the court or had a third party relay the info, not directly called and texted

I have spoken over the phone. They have only sent pictures. No videos or FaceTime.

Well like I said, in addition to full billable rate. Good companies offer above and beyond to attract legal talent. I'm not sure why you are gravitating towards cutting one's paycheck, which would just be me being classically greedy therefore why waste your and my time even making a post at that point.

Competitiveness is bidirectional.

The typos aren’t particularly concerning but the photos may be.  Even if this is legit, the landlord is going to weigh the costs of enforcing the agreement against the likelihood of recovery.  

Have you spoken by phone with this person?  Have you done a video tour via FaceTime (and not a prerecorded video)?

Do you live in an area with an overactive police force? Do you have reason to believe people like her and will believe her? Does she have cameras? Just drop it off (or have it dropped off) in the middle of the night, if anybody asks just keep repeating you dont know a fucking thing about it.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

It's up to him if he wants to spend thousands of dollars on something that probably won't work.

I’m just curious why go through all the trouble of a PFA at all if he wants to talk to me so badly.

Because your son was hurt, they were in an ER, and he was trying to responsibly inform his mother of that?

Had a neighbor who thought he had plenty of yard for shooting.

1/8th acre... In city limits... but he never did it while the cops were there so "who can say who shot what." There's holes in the garage of 2 neighbors behind us, and several in my fence before we rebuilt. 

I literally threw a small party the night they pulled his OD'd corpse out of the house.

I totally agree, but aside from contacting her dad the one time, he's never responded a single time. The fact that this has been ongoing on and off for a decade, after one 5-minute interaction, makes me less confident it won't continue

Honestly, when it's someone begging for attention?  The best way to handle it is to ignore it.  Starve it of oxygen.  Do not let her provoke a response, no matter what.

NAL -But,  I do not think that you are legally required to participate in a scam.

Any luck with this? Dealing with a commission related thing..

You have no idea whether or not they documented it. The issue is that they don't have to give it to you.

Hmmmm. Nice family you have there. Check attorney to make sure it’s cool. Then send a letter telling her if it isn’t gone in 30 days, you will consider it abandoned. After 30 days sell what you can sell and dispose of the rest.

Legal options are gonna be your best bet for dealing with expenses for actually fixing the problem… but for the time being higher someone with a skid steer Broom/sweeper, take pictures of all the glass that they remove/pile up after each pass.. saying the yards full of glass is one thing cleaning it and showing proof of the issue is a home run for any lawsuit

Could get away with less depending on if you’re going to have pets or children that dig

I can't imagine how long it would take children and pets to do the work. I would hire someone with heavy equipment.

I know, we're really at a loss for what to do. I wonder if there are any other courses of action that might help? Although we're also nervous to poke the bear....The whole thing is really emotionally distressing tbh

Had a friend/neighbor who "wronged" another neighbor in a similar manner ( a disgreement over opinions). He found evidence someone had keyed his car and , being a film maker, set up a camera in his car (this was early 2000's before dashcams) to try to catch the person. (He suspected she was the one doing it.)

He was in the car, changing the tape and had just restarted the recording, when she walked past his car and, without slowing down, drug her key across the hood in two big circular motions. The windows were up, but the sound it made when she did it made the judge wince when he played the tape.

Needless to say, she had to pay to have his whole car repainted as she had also scratched the sides on other occasions.

So be careful, she is probably just getting ramped up. Get a restraining order, if you haven't already, and document everything with the police.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Getting a restraining order against someone who lives across the country and in a different state is going to be expensive and difficult.  So will enforcing it.  A CA lawyer is the first step; a NY lawyer may also need to be involved.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. **Do not make a second post.** Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

International phone calls sound expensive

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Just so you know this refers to the CAN SPAM Act of 2003. (The US quite likes law names that form acronyms)

If you have an FSA or HSA for medical expenses, also be aware each has deadlines (for submitting claims, incurring new expenses, etc) after termination. Don't wait, you definitely want to jump on that along with the COBRA stuff.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

I'm a host on Turo — so I was renting my car out through their platform and a renter totaled it. Turo has their own protection plan that functions similarly to insurance for hosts, which is what covers the vehicle in situations like this. So when the car got declared a total loss, Turo's claims department took over the process, not a third party insurance company.

The people I've been dealing with are Turo's internal claims team, specifically an assigned Total Loss Specialist on their end. They also brought in IAA (Insurance Auto Auctions) to handle the settlement side of things, which is pretty standard for total loss claims.

So basically it's Turo acting as the insurer here. That's why I'm treating it like an insurance situation — because for all practical purposes, it is one.

Maybe on this account.

Yeah that’s what I figured! I was reading that it was an option to get one but given my case I wasn’t how beneficial it would actually be.

If they withhold your paycheck, report them to the Department of Labor who will investigate and make them pay you. As a bonus, your ex-employer may also get fined and have to pay damages.

This is really helpful, thank you so much!!

The USPS has absolutely no idea who lives at each address. Your individual mail carrier is the only person who should know who lives there, and clearly they don't know.

OP is in CA, generally speaking, they'll only be entitled to the paid and/or reduced amounts on bills.

of course. i would never do whatever it is you are suggesting i would not do! 😂 thanks for making me laugh lol. needed it

Yup! Galveston Fire Department, FF is being sued for “groping” a young female as they were performing a rescue on a stranded roller coaster car that was suspended 100’ in the air with the riders facing up and on their backs. No other way then to get a little uncomfortable when you need to get them into harnesses, that violate you on a good day when on your feet at ease. Sued a few days after the rescue last week.

Spending overnight in the hospital and closer OB monitoring due to the accident qualifies as bodily injury. I understand I wasn’t technically “injured”. I am looking for insight to see if it is worth it hence the meaning on this post!

Going pro se against an attorney in family law will result in OP losing, badly. Getting an attorney will result in a reasonable judgment. The judge can't help you if you go pro se, and, in fact, some judges get very irritated having to deal with it. It's not fair, but life is rarely fair.

Possession is 9/10s.

Yeah I was just wondering if they would go back YEARS to find anything about others or if they would look up keywords about relationships

yes but we had technically been “holding on” to it…

Non lead ammunition costs more so there is most certainly lead contamination.

If you didn't open the mail, it should be fine. Its on the previous tenant for not changing their address when they moved.

You don’t think I could get flagged for putting in a bunch of mail all at once? They are obviously going to know who it’s coming from and how old it is

Have her prepay utilities and taxes on the house instead.

I’d be half inclined to buy rocks and spread them all over then rent a roller and smash them into the ground break them up and bury them. Raking and digging out grass sounds like a lot unless the past owner is paying

There's nothing wrong with the title.

I have been paying my quarterly taxes and all that so far, so I’m not too worried about any fees popping up.

The arrangement kind of works, but I really rather prefer to have all the FTE benefits, especially like unemployment insurance for whenever they decide they don’t need me anymore. I hate the uncertainty of it all, but I’ve been laid off multiple times now at no fault of my own so it kind of feels like there’s no certainty anywhere anymore

And you'll need to refile your returns from the affected years if you get reclassified. Typically, a successful challenge decreases your taxes by about \~7.5%, your half of FICA of the income from the employment. 

As an independent contractor, you pay all of FICA. In employee situations, employee pays half and employer pays half.

Personal injury attorney generally work on contingency fees and have a free consultation. There can also be weird damages quirks like your entitled to the amount billed by the hospital even if insurance paid less (tho the hospital then might try to reclaim some it).

Personal injury statues of limitations are also generally 2 yrs so you may want to wait u til the baby is born both bc god-forbid the baby is not born healthy but more practically (it seems like) because you have a better idea how much increased healthcare costs your incurred because of the collision (if your costs/damages are greater, a lawsuit is more worthwhile).

Keep in mind too that the attorney is likely to send a demand letter to the defendant’s insurance with an offer to settle for XYZ amount of money. So it won’t necessarily be a long process, especially if damages are relatively low and the defendant’s liability is clear (in which case the insurance company is likely to settle/pay your claim).

If you can figure out your damages on your own (in terms of increased healthcare costs), you can likely just directly make a claim with the defendant’s insurance company without any lawyer. And if the plaintiff has any sort of medical-payments coverage (typically, $1000-$5000), the insurer will likely pay it immediately (it is no fault coverage).

Drop in any blue collection box. If you feel the need, write "Not at this address" or "NATA" on it

I don’t think strangers on Reddit would be helpful. The best measure is let your friend discuss specific matters with an attorney, and ask about specific steps they can take from there

No, your parents won’t get in trouble if they haven’t done anything. It doesn’t work like that.

It is a state resource and assistance for those that need it. You need it. Call them tomorrow since sometimes these things take time and you want to get started now:
 
Ohio Department of Children and Youth at 844-234-5437.

Example:

I’m 17 years old. I was involved in a traffic accident, and my parents are telling me I’m completely on my own financially. I work two jobs, but I don’t know what help is available to me or whether I should be handling this by myself. I’m looking for guidance and want to speak with someone about my situation.”

It’s hard to help that none of us know the jurisdiction you are under, and every case is different. The same charges can be much different in two cases

I literally do NOT understand. Can you explain it to me ? this is the company policy "Regardless of whom you make a report to, COMPANY NAME management we will promptly investigate and document all complaints and take appropriate corrective action based on our findings." please tell me how they are not responsible for documenting all complaints?????

The took it without my permission. But if we are both mass residents and she is currently residing in NYC for the month being, what do I do? Which state do I file small claims with

One still has to go out of the way to get pellets without lead though, and they can be a little more expensive.

Leaving it is NOT an option!

It has been a few years since I’ve purchased them.

On such a small property it is likely they were only using a BB gun. 1.5 acres isn't enough to safely shoot "all over" 

Of course, gun safety isn't something everybody follows...

Meet with an employment lawyer. The company is making a calculated payout that voluntary severance will be less than a settlement’s cost.  That fear makes it worth comparing the bird in the bush to the one in your hand.

This is exactly what our next step is if they do not get this rectified. I just didn’t know if there were other pressure points that I could push on. Also, how do I find out who the title companies EO insurance carrier is? That doesn’t seem like something they would want to share if they know about to file a claim.

When you do your taxes, you’ll be turning in a huge 1099 NEC (non employee compensation) or 1099 MISC.  When tallying you your taxes, you’ll have to pay both sides of your social security, your Medicare, your income, and self employment taxes.   This is on top of your state and local taxes which vary by municipality. And, if you haven’t been paying quarterly estimated taxes, you could face penalties there. 

By them classing you as a contractor, they’re not paying the taxes they should be paying and you get stuck paying them. The self employment, other half of social security, are what becomes meaningful to you.

Also, as you properly noticed, they’re avoiding paying you any other benefits that employees earn, like medical, dental, vision, short/long term disability, paid time off, 401K match, and so on.  

They’re getting a heck of a deal on you, it sounds like.  

On the flip side, if this arrangement works for you, you can start taking business expenses and tracking them. As in, what does it cost you to be this contractor here?  Daily commute miles don’t count, but mobile phone, internet, home office expense, advertising, bookkeeping, etc could all be valid deductions depending upon your situation. I’m not a lawyer and this isn’t tax advice, yadda yadda. But you get the idea.

I can’t make a specific judgement but advise your friend to get a lawyer. First time offender status and stuff like non-violent crime could be consideration for youthful offender status

It does include lot two. However, it’s not spelled out. It’s just the original description before we split it into two lots. All they did was copy and paste the property description when we bought it. That’s the kicker. I’m no good at reading metes and bounds descriptions , but I am good at reading an address. And they used the new 911 address for lot one. Which is why I didn’t catch it.

Isn’t this their first post

I was perpendicular in a lane waiting for traffic to clear. What the police report doesnt say is that the other car was illegally driving in a turn lane.

The pellets I use to kill rats is non-lead, just copper

If you can post on reddit you can post on Instagram. You should be able to read your messages and respond.

NAL. Don't panic or waste money on a lawyer just yet, because florida county clerks deal with this data lag all the time. Just call or email your local clerk's traffic division and send them a copy of your certificate directly. When I did my course online through Lowest Price Traffic School, they submitted it automatically too. Pretty straightforward though I still had to email my PDF to the county clerk to get the points cleared instantly.

I have known for six months. The title company that originally sold lot one has theoretically been working with the mortgage holder to get it corrected however, it’s been six months and all they can tell me is “these things take a very long time.”  six months to me is a long time.

Because it's r/legaladvice? Are you lost?

U can pay than file chargeback and sell the car I had a friend who did this

Why did you dispute those transactions if you knew you're the one who made them? 

Yes they will prosecute because they have to get their money back

I handle cases like this often.  They go after the medical bills from that day.  And the future ob ones since she has to be watched more.  Now they'll argue loss os enjoyment of pregnancy and stress.  I disagree but that's what they'll say

U could contact city get car back(Do what my friend did and once u get car back file a chargeback for storage fees) than keep car back in parking spot for a month or so than because u owe less now sell and pay it off than get a new one so the city cant try and take it back u dont have it anymore

Burn it to the ground

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

I’m scared if I call them then my parents will get in trouble, is that true? And when I do call what do I say? Thank you

You can add layers instead of removing all of it.  Get as much free cardboard as you can, preferably plain brown cardboard with no plastic or colors on it.   I would rake top layers of loose glass away and remove  what I can. Put cardboard down, extra thick in areas you want to use for people and pets.  Get as many leaves as possible in autumn and keep mowing over the leaves to mulch them. Layer them with cardboard they become soil.  Get as much soil delivered as you can afford.  Layer it on.  Apply seed. Designate areas for borders and areas for walkways, maybe slate since the glass won’t come thru but  maybe wood chips on cardboard.,   Soil, sand rock delivery is expensive but find out what deals are local for bulk delivery and assign areas of priority for landscaping.

NAL Unless you have large bills relating to your medical and ongoing, not worth it. It’s not as easy as “ I got PAID $300k, thanks lawyer”. 

Also, if you sue, your health insurance company will get their portion back for the er sta in most circumstances. 25-35% to lawyer…def not worth it unless you have serious ongoing medical issues vs I need to be watched more closely.

If it caused premature labor, nicu stay and the baby had ongoing issues- absolutely time to file. This, not much to really gain.

I would call to social/welfare/child protective services FIRST. go through their intake and talk with them.

Excellent chance that they might navigate helping find and pay for an attorney.

So, let social services handle it if they are able. They will try to find one that does traffic defense.

If you are ever trying to find an attorney on your own, best place to start is with your state or local city/area bar:

We think the same things we thought the last time you posted about this.

Contact lawyer that issued the divorce

Yup that’s worse.  I know how many roofing nails I found with a magnet after we had our roof replaced. Stuff is hard to collect.

If they're popping off shots all the time, depending on what rounds they're using get a soil test in several locations for lead.

Got it, yes you should absolutely push your insurance to cover this. The insurance should cover what is needed to install the floor properly.

If they refuse, you most likely have options. In the US you have the right to request the claim go to mediation for just these situations, and here you would absolutely win this.

Again I cant exactly for Canada, but I'm almost certain they would have something similar like mediation as a clause of the contract.

Put it up for sale, Cheap, and make sure she knows. Sell it as is and with stuff in it.

Why take it to the dump?  Just buy an old cement truck and make the world’s largest rock tumbler.

You may be able to hire a commercial lawn maintenance contractor that has a large vacuum pickup unit to go over your property. The school district where I used to live bought one to go over playgrounds just for this purpose.  Likely would take this and  alternating between running over with harrows or something to loosen up buried glass. Should be doable.

Why would you ask this here? You really need legal advice from an attorney in your state. Good luck. I hope you can find compensation.

Same answer as above. Complaints made by employees aren't part of this definition.

Should I call around to find a specific type of attorney? And when should I have an attorney by? My court date is in august for the 2 citations but im not sure if there will be another court date for everything else.

Thanks! It was laminate flooring originally and had zero identifiable leveling concerns. Insurance has declined to cover the leveling saying that it’s not related to the loss and that the floor was unlevel prior to the damage. 

Regardless the laminate can’t be replaced without it being leveled - I’ll lean into my insurance company it should be covered

**Advertising and Recommendations** 

This is a forum for legal answers.  We do not allow any advice on specific lawyers, legal services or legal products.  Non-legal advice on products or services may be allowed at moderator discretion.  Please review the following rules before commenting further:

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

We have emailed a few times and whats annoying is we have submitted two work orders they closed it both times without ever visiting the unit except for pest control because there were cockroaches

Generally, a PI lawyer is only worth the while for serious injuries.  Despite what TV ads would have you think, most cases settle for economic damages and a little bit of money for "pain and suffering" (inconvenience).  Giving a lawyer 1/3 of your recovery doesn't typically make much sense in those cases.

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Three options:  
1. Leave it and erode the value of your word.  
2. Have it towed.  
3. Tow it yourself and drop it in her driveway

Yep same. Mine was and is nails and broken windows from adding a room.

You weren't injured though? What do you expect to happen if you retain a personal injury lawyer?

I would look for an attorney, maybe find a law school that could help

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

90 percent of reddit consists of bots with recycled stories. 

I hope this story is not true. Couple with dogs purchases their dream home up north, during the winter months, and did not do any more due diligence?

Hopefully they used a local realtor cause should have known better.

In my case they removed a wall and added an extra room and just dumped all the waste onto the yard before hauling it. Glass, wire, stucco but most dangerously big flat square head framing nails that sit upright. I had a 2 yo at the time. 10 years later I’m still finding stuff.

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

is it a gooseneck? plain tow hitch? what is the gvwr?

I would suppose this is wage theft.

I wonder what type of weapon was being used because shooting bottles with a pellet gun is nearly as fun as shooting bottles with gunpowder-propelled weapons but the lead content will be significantly less of a concern for pellets than it is for slugs.

send picture, so I know what we are talking about.

We did not get the washer and dryer and the oven delivered till day three I believe

That sounds most like a landlord who was replacing appliances while turning over an apartment and didn't get it done on time.   Three days is sufficiently swift to reply to your complaint and remedy it.

So that leaves the broken refrigerator.   That is a required appliance, but its failure doesn't make your apartment unlivable or unsafe.   You can eat non-perishable food.

Start with a *written* notice about the fridge not working.   Maybe you already did that 8 days ago, or 5 days ago, or are doing it now.   But be sure it's in writing.

If they don't respond or provide a functional refrigerator in a day or two, then you can call 311 or escalate your complaint.

Get a life? Who do you think should have to pay for the skid loader and dump truck?

You could always consider making a delayed report to the police and seeing if they are willing to bring charges. Certain child sexual abuse offenses may not have statute of limitations in Florida.

  
Regardless, this is mainly a relationship issue, not a legal issue. You should talk to your sister, and prepare how to tell her this secret you've been carrying. It may be easier than you think and be more of a relief that you ever thought. Consider calling RAINN or finding a local center in Florida, or the Florida Council Against Sexual Violence like someone else said. You should definitely be in personal therapy as well to process how to handle this situation. Best of luck to you.

Where?  Drop off at done corner for someone else to deal with?  Pay to have someone put it in her driveway in area they aren’t allowed in front of house… not really legal.

Must suck to live in California.  
Here in Tennessee you could just hook up to it and drag it off. 
Regardless of the legality, police would take your side because its your property.

He has a same lawyer handling all his cases in two different counties.

No, it's not. It might well be unacceptable behavior but it's not coercion.

So I dont have a full answer because you are in Canada, but here is how it would work on the US, and I think this would be fairly similar up there. 

Your homeowner's insurance is covering the loss for you, but they are also subrogating against your upstairs neighbor. Essentially they are suing his insurance company to recover thier losses from the damage.

None of this effects the $3000 or the floor leveling, but you might not actually be able to sue your neighbor, as your insurance is already doing that.

As for the $3000 for floor leveling, your insurance is required to return your property to pre-loss condition. If you had laminate floor before and it needs leveling, they are required to pay that.

HOWEVER... if you are doing something different with your floors, like you had carpet and now you are installing laminate, the insurance will not pay for any increased costs related to that. They are not responsible for an upgrade.

Good lord. Does he have a good lawyer I hope???

I’m confused. This was an investment… investments don’t always yield results. 

If he only makes $200/week (and that’s not a lie). Then you’re not going to get your money back. He’s entitled to basic living expenses.

lies. be creative. just get rid of it.

You have to go through a legal process to get rid of it.  I am in the middle of doing so.  Unfortunately, I can’t just plop it on her doorstep or get rid of it.  Already talked to PD, DMV and now setting up an account with a towing company to have it towed and impounded at her expense.  If I could drop it at her house I would!  And yes, she is being an entitled brat!

It has happened to me I've had to go over my yard many times with a magnetic sweep and pick up glass by hand, the house flipper spread dirt on the yard to hide all the small trash from decades of neglect.  The first heavy rainstorm washed it all away exposing it and now new stuff pops up every time it rains that has to be picked up.

Not in Salem, Oregon

Basically are you saying a patient is asking their caregiver to give them money? That's not financial correction.

Its once a month for 4hrs. That's what she chose for herself when this was put in place almost 2 years ago. If that wasn't feasible for her I dont think the sole financial burden should be on him. We would gladly drive to get her for a weekend and bring her back.

Im going to agree. 1.5 acres is not a sufficient piece of property to target shoot. If they did, they would be required to have a backstop. OP .akes no reference to a large mound of dirt that was just in the yard of their perfect home. With a backstop the glass would be isolated to a small area not throughout the entire 1.5 acres.

I thought my answer and information was pretty clear. He got lucky as hell already and should count himself blessed and not be greedy.

Many newer cars, especially German cars, have what are know and TTY(Torque to Yield) fasteners. These bolts can only be tightened once, as they stretch when tightened to rhe proper specification. Once removed for a repair they should be thrown out and not reinstalled. The "can" be reused, but will generally loosen or break over time. Some jobs may have 10-20 or more bolts that need to be replaced, which adds up quickly on a repair. Shops cheat by reusing instead of replacing, and clients would never know.

They had five years to do so

Shop vacs. Get to work.

1.5 acres get a life. Skid loader and a dump truck. Problem solved.

There is still the damage to the other party’s car which your family will have to pay for.  Just because they didn’t have injuries at the scene doesn’t mean they won’t make claims later.

Base of 40, I don't know how much overtime but potentially 46 worked hours per week if we adhere to shop open hours.

If the thing was first taken by this person without your permission, then it might be a criminal theft that the police could choose to investigate.

If not, then it is more likely to be a civil dispute for which the appropriate venue is small claims court in the borough where they live.

So:

At the time that your friend took possession of the item, did they do so with your permission ?

Your legal recourse is to quit and find a new job or do the overtime. 

How many hours per week we talking here?

Call state child protective services tomorrow and get a case worker then. Blunts, it doesn’t matter that you believe about their finances. It doesn’t matter what you think if they can lay or not.

Your parents are legally responsible for you to a degree as a minor. They just don’t get to do nothing. They have money. It is not your job or responsibility to understand how they will pay for an attorney, that is their responsibility. Regardless of what your parents are telling you.

Google Ohio or your city child protective services and contact them tomorrow to explain your situation and get their assistance.

I got a ticket for failing to yield at a stop sign, which is not true

Can you provide a narrative of what exactly happened?

It does **not.**  I apologize for the typo.

thank you, my dad at one point tried to get me and my brother (for different reasons) under a conservatorship, got closer with my brother but failed. Now he will try anything and everything to get control. He tried to convince me my hobby is a spending addiction equal to my brothers drug addiction, telling me he could "get me help" I think he was trying to force me into Christian Counseling, but now hes trying to convince me therapy and counseling is snake oil. 

I think a lot of people assume schizophrenics are dangerous and evil, I am not, I am sick in a environment making sicker. Thank you for understanding, a lot of people don't I wrote this in a panic, I am doing okish now, not great, I am hallucinating but its very on and off right now, I am trying to just focus on applying to jobs.

NC does require paid sick days??

Tempered glass patio table shatter?  That’s what we had happen and solved it the same way.

I already use a CPAP machine due to sleep apnea.

It’s not legal advice and might get removed but I read “glass” as “grass” and was seriously questioning everything

How can I afford a lawyer? I believe my parents can’t pay for one. Theyre older and don’t work, also they’ve kinda made it clear It’s my job to figure all of this out. I’ll look into trying to find a lawyer but I really don’t know how im going to do that.

No, you likely will not qualify for a public defender due to the minor citations involved. You can ask the court/judge/prosecutor for your options, but I would be surprised if one was appointed for these level citations.

Stop saying you can’t afford an attorney. Have your parents start calling around to ask. You don’t even know what the cost involved would be without interviewing a few first. How can you say you can’t afford something when you don’t even know how much it is?

Again, this is your parent’s responsibility. You are a minor. They should be hiring the lawyer, they will figure out the finances.

If your parents have a situation where they are on disability, or cognitively unable to to provide you the legal obligated care or something like that, I would be calling social services to see what assistance a case or welfare worker could help you navigate:

   Ohio Department of Children and Youth Main Line: (844) 234-5437 (KIDS)

I know I’m a little off-topic here, but have you done a sleep study? Sleep apnea can result in falling asleep during the day. It is also known to contribute to AFib.

Lawyer up! Call a good employment attorney. You may be able to get a severance package. Then stating your sign and you signing that will nullify anything an employment attorney can do and not offer a severance packages

No way this is real...

To be candid OP coming onto Reddit for advice of this nature isn’t the best course of action.

Consult with an attorney. Find out what your options are specific to your state and situation.

Yes, this is legal. North Carolina does require paid sick days, and no US state requires paid vacation time.

No ome can answer this for you. It depends entirely on what the nature of your relationship was, rather they think you have any connection or information about the crimes, and if they find any information about you in his phone/house.

Yes was thinking the same,cousin seems to be wanting everything your father has,it’s a grubby thing when someone dies and everyone tries to claim on the will,we are going through it now,make sure you or one of your siblings (if you have them and trust them to help you out with getting your Dads affairs in order and make sure the cousin doesn’t get a say in anything.Good luck to you.

Yes, you can afford a lawyer. You just don’t what to do to make it happen. Your parents should be the ones paying for the lawyer. You aren’t paying being a minor. Have your parents contact different law offices to interview them. If they don’t speak English, most attorneys offices can provide translation or interpreter services.

Understand however difficult your finances are now, if you navigate this without a lawyer you could easily be costing yourself $10k or more.

Your parents are going to be doing all this, not you. Make sure your parents hire a lawyer.

This is where reading your contract vs knowing your states labor laws come into play. There's probably an average/base pay. House being variable wouldn't matter because its salary (up to a point).

They cannot hire an attorney, I am financially responsible for literally everything at home. I work 2 jobs and had to get to work, my parents don’t drive. I haven’t driven since the accident. Am I not able to get an attorney provided by the court?

Unless the money is outstanding, I would keep looking.

This from the neighbor not the one trying to say he sold you it. 

Sounds like he robbed a house and stole a jetski and paperwork especially since 500 is low for a ski in good condition.

I am not saying that you should do this. I would never do that. I’m only saying that in a situation like this someone might go to the park in the evening, or very early morning and stomp the heck out of these plants. Not that you should do this.

I do understand that is why I’m trying to seek advice. The other party did not have any injuries and didn’t go to the hospital. I don’t want to sound dumb but I have health insurance so I think that would cover my hospital trip? My car is fully totaled and has been sold to the junk yard.

You are under 18. You don’t get to navigate anything being a minor.

Recommend your parents hire an attorney to represent you. Do what the attorney says and don’t lie to them.

The video likely won’t help you. If you failed to yield and you were at fault, the other driving admitting they didn’t see you doesn’t change anything. Show the video to the hired lawyer and listen to what they say about it.

Stop driving in violation of your permit and without insurance.

Private health information??  No, managers are not at all entitled to know an employees private health information. Nor should they attempt to find it out by fishing from other places. All they are entitled to know is that the employee qualifies for leave and has provided HR with the appropriate documentation and the duration of their leave and information regarding accommodations if needed. And if they were entitled to it, it certainly wouldn't be for them to attempt to gain it from a regular employee that is in no way related to that individual's employment.

Work with court to do a Sheriff’s Sale on the assets they have in your state…..

But how are they calculating a day’s wages if the workweek’s number of hours are variable and it’s a partial base partial commission structure?

Don’t worry about how to pay for the meds now. The emergent thing is getting meds.  You aren’t dangerous, I know, but what about danger to yourself. You did the bravest thing calling the suicide hotline. If you have trouble getting out of the house, then call them again.

Okay thank you for clarifying! Yes I’m under 18. I genuinely can’t afford a lawyer, I pay majority bills at home and am financially responsible for basically everything I need want etc. I got 2 citations which i mentioned before.

I can't right now, but I am trying. No jobs in my area are really hiring, so I am going to try to take time off work and see if I can put myself in one. I know I am sick, I am not dangerous but I am sick and I am trying, I have spent all day applying to jobs, maybe having a way to pay for my meds if I get insurance or more money.

I have to do my work on the company’s provided laptop, I have to attend company events, and I’m expected to work 40 hours (unless there is a holiday or I’m sick), which all sounds like I should be classified as a full-time employee.

Yep, that sounds very much like an employee. 

You can file a form with the IRS:

It's not worth fighting, you will spend way more than $1000 tr time to change this.

I am curious how this would be your fault at all of he hit you?

It’s worth looking into.

A public defender is an attorney. Since you have been charged with a crime you should get an attorney.

I do not think you understand the seriousness of this situation.  You do not have a license or insurance and you will most likely be found at fault for this accident which means you (and as a minor your parents) will be financially liable for your medical bills, the damage to your car, the damage to the other party's car and the other party's medical bills.  This is **Very Serious** and when to apply for your license should be the least of your concerns.  The financial liability of this situation could be $100k+ depending on injuries the other party sustained.

Sweetheart, I have a child your age.  All I can think is if they were feeling the way you are, they would deserve help. Don’t you deserve help?  And guess what these hospitals have - social workers. You need to go to a hospital and ask for a social worker. If your father won’t let you have meds, then you cannot live there. Your social worker will help you navigate getting care that you can manage financially. Please, please, please do this. I’ll be worried about you all night.

I was thinking about the ammo as well. My guess would be OP hasn't thought of it yet, as I'd assume that the ammo probably went out further from the home or wherever they were shooting from the property and OP may have just not gone out that far because of all of the glass they'd be walking through.

Yes I’m under 18 and trying to navigate this whole thing because my parents aren’t helping very much. It’s been a month since the crash, my car was completely totaled and the other car was not i believe but im not sure. I’m wondering if me getting my license will help at all or if it will make things worse. If I have a video of the other driver admitting they didn’t see me does that help at all?

So going to the precinct and filing that would not do anything? How would I file in small claims court?

Yes, it's legal. Your company has no obligation to provide vacation. If you take a whole day off from a salaried job, they can dock your pay.

I mean below mine lol

What's the underlying question? What are you trying to accomplish?

No that’s not what financial coercion is.

Please tell me you have business liability insurance.

It’s not just glass; what about lead contamination?  What type of ammo were they using?

You're going to need to provide examples if you want to claim harassment.

Absent a union contract, you don’t have a right to refuse to work overtime. You are free to refuse to work extra, but you can be lawfully terminated for that refusal.

Sounds like your best option is to apply for other jobs.

You are a presumably young kid, with only a permit who was driving alone / out of hours, and with no insurance. Unless you have good video evidence that you were not at fault it’s going to be hard to convince anyone otherwise. 

You seem to be focused on whether it matters if you could for the license now. That seems like a secondary concern until you figure out what to do with your totaled/ininsured car and the ticket for driving outside the terms of your permit and the traffic violation, which you should assume you will be found guilty of.

NAL - Do you have a lease he's on?  If not, maybe start with that.  If you have a legal agreement for him paying a certain amount each month, perhaps he will realize the risk of failing to do so.

Otherwise, I believe you would just have to evict him.  I don't know how a judge would view it really.  Also, having a serious talk with him that if he doesn't straighten out,, you're kicking him out might be a good idea to start with.

And when he does the exam, be sure to include in the subpoena that commands the appearance that he produce all bank records in his possession. Garnishment of bank accounts is typically more likely to hit home than garnishing a paycheck.

im a minor so im required to go to court haha or else i would’ve just paid

We had a similar situation, not as big sq. feet wise.  We used a shopvac after dark with the flashlight and literally vacuumed anything shiny out of the yard.   We mounted the flashlight right to the business end of the shopvac.    

In your case, I do not how deep the glass goes into the dirt, but ours was on the surface and we easily dealt with it using a big wet/dry shopvac and flashlights.

They were daily comments

It looks like it doesn’t matter if you wait or not. You don’t get points on your actual full license. You get points assigned to your driving RECORD, regardless if you are driving on a permit. Looks like the judge can assess points on your record now even if you don’t have your license yet.

Honestly, what you did was a very bad decision for a whole bunch of reasons.

Operating in violation of your permit. Violation of state law and your own personal interests driving without insurance. According to the other party, who is probably insured and will have lawyers representing them from the insurance company, you were the cause of the accident.

This is serious enough you shouldn’t just try fighting the failure to yield citation. You should be interviewing attorneys to represent you for all the violations you caused.

Also, do you have a plan for your insurance yet or financially what is going to happen? Do you realize how incredibly expensive car insurance is for new/young drivers and with this incident your rates just got even more expensive for the next few years?

Are you over 18 years old?

Note: Not a doc, not a lawyer. But you are clearly in crisis, and if you ask the hospital to admit you and they agree (especially for self harm ideals), you WILL get meds. Or of you just talk to a doctor who can re-prescribe your meds, don't tell your father and take them in private. You're a legal adult so unless he has some kind of guardianship, he can't prevent that. Take him off your emergency contacts and if you add anyone else, add a friend you deeply trust that is out of their reach. 

You could lose your job, but there are others. You might even be able to say, "Hey, I have to quit for now, but I'd like to reapply later."

As for costs, all non-profit hospitals have to have a Charity Care system to cover patients who cannot pay. Application is simple and they're non-judgemental. 

If nothing else, just get out of there, especially if the living situation is what's aggravating everything. A friend, a shelter.

I missed the non union. There’s not much you can do besides look for new employment. Check. Out worker. Gov for unionization information

You’re in a severely toxic relationship man and you have to separate for both your sakes. With some distance you can go to therapy and figure out your part in this cycle and how to change your behaviors and thoughts about conflict in a relationship. This one seems done man. Time to grow and move on for the the people you love.

Unless you get decently big or are playing in like a cover band or wedding band or something, most small time venues around here pay mostly in drink tickets and maybe very small petty cash.

Ddadopt implied he didn't have much of a case and desperately needs an attorney or he will be destroyed. 

I think he's intelligent enough to know his own business to fill out required forms and show up for required hearings, has a military veteran background, so unless he's hiding something, he has no reason to think he's going to get destroyed in court.

But obviously Reddit doesn't feel the same. They want to doubt him.

This has nothing to do with whether you should sue or not and everything to do with your wife’s feelings (regardless of whether she is being reasonable). 

For the sake of your relationship you’ll have to go through the process. But, do it with your wife. 

Get your information together and both of you meet with lawyer. Pay this lawyer to look at all your facts and documents and tell you and your wife how to proceed.  Chasing 10k across state lines is throwing good money after bad, but meeting with a lawyer who will tell you and your wife that will be money well spent.

At the time that your friend took possession of the item, did they do so with your permission ?

If so, then this is almost certainly not a criminal theft matter.

Is the $1000 the current value of the thing in its present condition, or the purchase price when you obtained it (or the cost to replace it with a new one, rather than one in similar condition) ?

Your legal venue for recourse is likely small claims court.

My bad! And I appreciate your help, I'm just so riled up right now.

Everyone drives cars up until their court date? 

Honestly most people don’t even take it to court. I never took mine to court I did traffic school or paid the tickets. 

Plus you really have nothing to prove on your end. You already have the driving with a permit issue which is proven by you not having a license.

IMO, the cousin is doing some shady shit. U need to get more involved and speak with dad's attorney to find out what is really going on with his estate.

What you are describing is a "breach of contract".  Your landlord promised you certain appliances as part of your rental agreement and they are not honoring the promise. 

That is a breach of contract.

To hold them to account you must first provide them "notice and opportunity"...you need to give them notice of the breach and a chance to fix the problem. 

if they refuse? Then you can take steps to correct, including suing them for any costs you incur over this

you can certainly call 311...that is the city's government services line...they may come out to inspect. 

But from a legal standpoint if you gave them notice in writing and a chance to fix and they are refusing you can sue them in small claims court to recover for any harm you suffer over this

for my state you have to put in your social security and upload ur permit number etc but i’ll def look into it!

Video tape you handing over the keys, and sign nothing that they hand you. Yes it will (most likely) stop you from getting unemployment, and im guessing that is their angle for handling things this way. If they fired you and ask that you say you resigned.... There's absolutely no good intentions behind that. Document everything you can and speak to a labor lawyer as soon as possible. Also try and get in contact with unemployment asap, that way the state is involved and they can help provide or find resources to help you out.

We are non-union, it's in the post title. I wish we were, I may or may not be in the process of trying to get everyone on board with it. Trying to decide if it would be better to reach out to union reps at our airline, or if we should go on our own, as we are technically a vendor and not airline employees.

that’s what i was thinking as well. however the logic my friend said kind of makes sense because the judge might think i didn’t understand my recklessness and chose to still get my license and drove up until the court date? but also im scared if i fail my test then they’d have it on record

Once again, depends on your state but in mine, I could sign my dog up for a drivers test.  The sign up portal online is completely detached from real DMV records

Thank you for posting an update!  All update posts are automatically locked due to a historical lack of on-topic discussion.  This is a forum for legal advice and if none is sought, none will be offered.   If, however, your post also contains a new question, please message the moderators) for a review. 

Feel free to start or join in the conversation about this update in either /r/bestoflegaladvice or /r/legaladviceofftopic.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/legaladvice) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Lagotto romagnolo he’s an expensive breed

Depends on your union contract and then it would be between the union and your employer.  There is no law preventing mandatory overtime in Oregon. I believe Oregon only requires overtime pay if more then 40 hours in a week. They do not require overtime for hours worked during a day unless your hours in that workweek have surpassed 40 hours at that point. 

Unless your union contract states different they can fire you for refusing to work overtime

You can sue your roommate for the worth of the dog. But honestly unless it's a breeded dog the worth of the dog is around $100-$300 for a rescue dog.

Why would you wait til after? Then it can seem to the judge that you don’t plan on getting one? 

I would get it and apologize for driving on a permit without another driver in the vehicle.

\> Could reporting these issues lead to retaliation from the property manager or affect my security deposit if I have to vacate

Legally, no.

\> What should I expect from the inspection and enforcement process?

Practically, nothing that would be addressed in the remaining timeframe of your lease.  It is *possible* that you could be living in a deathtrap, but none of the symptoms you describe sound like they would require immediate evacuation.  The most likely outcome would be telling the landlord to fix what is fixable within thirty days.

From a construction background: Excavate probably 12 inches of soil and export(take to a dump) , then import clean dirt and redo your landscaping.  Could get away with less depending on if you’re going to have pets or children that dig, but even with excavation you aren’t going to get all of the glass just the majority and then bury what you don’t get.

You need to learn to walk away. Sounds like you definitely deserved the restraining order tbh. 

You should follow the restraining order and leave her alone. Maybe try to get a mediator to work out the custody.

NAL but am in a management role. You're likely not going to be successful for any of the things you mentioned, and I doubt any lawyer would take your case on contingency.

Defamation of character only applies if the statements were false AND presented as facts instead of opinion.

Comments about weight and appearance don't meet the hostile work environment criteria unless it's discriminatory or excessive.

100% there is no other way

it allowed me to schedule my driving test so i don’t think there’s any blocks, as well as i haven’t received anything in the mail about it? My court date is in august however im not sure when everything will be over.

Can you go back on them without being hospitalized?

Yes. Remove until the hazard is not present and refill. If not disclosed on the sale im pretty sure you can go after the seller for the cost

I’d guess that it’s something like that. I’m sure disposing of glass-filled dirt is also non-trivial and then there would be seeding and watering of grass or laying down sod.

Are you sure that you are actually eligible to get your license on June 3rd?  You might have a stop or block on you until after your court date is settled.  Depends on your state and likely worth investigating

return her trailer to her.

My groomer is actively being investigated for the second time as we speak. Other people were brought into it because they told me he did it to them too (he was a teacher). I think he’ll get charged with anything with any minor. I would assume it’s the same for you. What I can say, is that you will not be named if you go forward too. They will give you a title and not release your name. When I did my formal interview in the station last Monday they informed me of all this because I was willing to have my name out there if it meant justice but they said that is not the case. If it bothers you, now might be a good time to get closure. Sending you support. DM me if you want. I’m in PA.

I was wondering the exact same thing.

Keep doubling down. Secret service isn't concealing mp7s and P90s in their waistbands. 

You're just another idiot. Not worth my time.

kids now a day are entitled. get rid of it. 

why are you afraid of her not talking to you again? She is already not talking to you.

she is walking all over you. be a parent, teach her a lesson. do your duty as a parent!

I know this is legal advice, but what does remediation look like even? Do you remove the top x feet of soil and replace?

This sounds like more than a restraining order, this sounds like a criminal case. Get a defense attorney, like a public defender if you qualify.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Make sure if you settle with the collections you get it in writing that the debt will be removed from your credit report, otherwise it'll just be listed as settled for less than total amount and still negatively affect you. You can find some template letters you should fill out and mail to the collections agency first to try and get it removed without paying anything. Don't do the electronic version as it gives them a lot more time to respond. By mailing it they only have like 30 days or something, you want to send a 'debt validation' letter. If they do verify it then look for 'pay for delete' templates.

In a waistband under a jacket 100%

There's a reason the secret service switched to PDW's

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

As much as I hate to say this, the cops should have been called.

He apologized and said he was wrong. He simply thought I'd had bottom surgery and wanted to see it. I've had many colonoscopies, even at the same hospital and NEVER ENCOUNTERED THIS! It's absolutely irrelevant, rude, and creepy.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

**Edit your post and send modmail for review.  DO NOT REPOST.  You will be banned if you repost.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Sex offenders have to live somewhere, too, once they are released. That's what the registries are for. Inform your daughters and your neighbors, but don't make contact with the offender. Nothing good can come of it legally.

Just because you’d pay 30 k why would I pay 30 k?
Everytime it rains I’m picking up glass, window weights that look like iron dildos and oyster shells like crazy. That’s just what asshats used to do. Deal with it

The comment above mine is absolutely correct. Immediately call. IMMEDIATELY

I used to do unemployment hearings for my old company in Maryland. Signing paperwork saying you resigned will absolutely screw you over on unemployment. 

Go back, return the keys. Refuse to sign anything.

Email the manager or whomever is in charge, copy HR (if there is one) and your personal account and use something.

"Following up on my visit to OFFICE LOCATION today. I returned the office keys and [ADD ANY OTHER RETURNED ITEMS HERE] to PERSON WHO ACCEPTED THE ITEMS WITH THEIR TITLE. As we previously discussed, I refused to sign the exit paperwork as the paperwork included a statement that stated I resigned my position. I did not resign from my position. I was removed from the schedule without notification. 

Thank you,
OP

If they deny your unemployment claim, submit an appeal! I cannot tell you how often companies either don't show up to the appeal or have terrible documentation and can't back up their denial claims. A lot of the appeal heari ngs are online and even if they are in person, show up and bring ALL of your documentation and emails to show evidence of your constructive dismissal. The appeal process is designed to be user friendly for every day workers. The adjudicators are fair and often kind and will explain things in ways you will understand. Don't let your old job screw you out of UI you are entitled to!

Legally, you can move.

You definitely should not go try to intimidate this person who, for all you know, has done his time and is working hard on his reform.  

You can contact this person’s supervising officer and make sure there are no problems with his current housing arrangement.

unfortunately I'm going to have to wait till I have the money to work with an attorney 😕

What is a “mal”? Never heard that term before. The way you phrase it I’m going to assume gun? 

But anyway, absolutely don’t go over there saying anything like that or with a “mal”. You don’t know what that guy is like and even if you don’t think it’s a threat the police may not view at that way and you could easily end up getting charged with a crime.

Legally I would say there probably isn’t much of anything you can do. If he is not violating whatever restrictions he has as a sex offender, then legally he’s allowed to live there.

I read this same post 3 days ago.

Fair point, definitely take a close read through the whole form.

Doesn’t matter if someone took my dog knowing his fence wasn’t secure? I left him in his crate before leaving. My roommate had left them outside.

You said that she had her own property nearby. Since she's not budging, if you don't want to dispose of it, can you just tow it to her place?

Doesn't really matter, where you had your dog wasn't secured.

What do I do?

Leave her alone. You openly admit to being abusive toward her.

That's textbook pregnancy discrimination and you have solid evidence with those screenshots - file complaint with EEOC immediately because waiting makes it harder to prove the connection

AR platform pistols are concealable? Even an MCX, that lacks a buffer tube, still isn't fitting in anyone's pocket. And no real firearms enthusiast in the US refers to .300 Blackout by its metric measurement. 

The typical redditor "ackshually" crap isn't going to work with me.

Not so fast. Those children(cousins) estranged or not, may be entitled to their mom’s share. Certainly you may need to publish a request for folks who might have a claim.  Attorney is needed

You're right---I tend to forget the adoration people have for their opinions and the uncontrollable need they feel to share them. You do you, booboo.

I was wondering that myself.  Got a lot of hate for a group the was supposed to be helpful

What happened in the accident? Is he obviously at fault?

If he rear ended you for example and is now stonewalling, actually filing the case probably gets you his insurance information to then settle.

You should go to an initial consult with a divorce attorney. They are generally low cost. 

They should be able to explain how marital funds can pay their fees in a way that can assuage your fears.

300 blackout is 7.62 and can be used in some pistols that are very concealable and popular. But you should know that since you're not an idiot right.

I hate that age time frame for young sexual active adults. In my experience the laws are subjective. Her Family involvement factors in with lawful matters, it seems. Here is the gist of what I tell my 15, almost 16 yr old daughter. For context; Because her father and I are not together. He is a LEO in a rural small town, and ready to string up any boy trying to have intercourse with his daughter. (I don't agree with his outlook here but i am also not able to do anything about it). She is not yet active in this sphere,but I know it is afoot...that said
I tell my daughter to stay away from boys that are 17 or 18 for now. Too many young men get involved with 15-16 yr old girls, who don't look l5-16 yr old, with over bearing parents and end up on a registry their whole life. That is a life ruiner. I want my daughter to understand the weight of her actions and how they can affect another life. Being responsible and making good choices is a must in this world. We are our choices. Period. Self restraint is paramount. I also have 2 sons, who are much younger and arent age appropriate yet to be told this, but I will tell them not to be around young girls under 17. Period. It's a hard time in life, but I'll tell ya life is just kinda hard at any age for different reasons. Learn self control and respect those around you. 

In your situation I wouldn't be texting or putting in writing any sexy stuff. Keep that on phone calls or Snapchat just in case. It seems to me that the age range is legal. Just be smart and to air on the side of caution don't leave a papertrail of what you may or may not do with this girl. 
I do think she's to young to be engaging in the these possible activities, but if you live in reality you know it's common practice to start at this age.  Becareful and good luck.

Definitely speak to a lawyer about all of that. 

I'm giving you advice for getting a new job. Whether or not they get away with how they treated you has nothing to do with you leaving them off your resume so you can gain employment elsewhere.

He didn’t get one over on you, your girl screwed up. Always get insurance info. And if they won’t give it to you, call the cops. 
At this point, it’s a scratch. See if you have a buddy who does paint/body work and see if they’ll buff it out for a six pack.

OP should probably check both sections. While not what would be considered in a hazardous material, the sellers would probably be in the clear if they did list it in that section. One of the items listed under that section of potential hazardous materials is a generic "Other hazardous substance," and glass is scientifically considered a substance and it is a hazard, so the seller would probably be in the clear if they listed it there, even if it would fit better under known material defects.

It's possible that they dropped the warrant in court, or they were simply unaware of the outstanding warrant. It seems odd but sometimes it takes time for the paperwork to reflect in all the court systems. You absolutely can call the police and ask, though they're not required to provide you any information. Keep reporting and recording every single violation so that you have evidence if/when he ever is arrested for the violations.

It’s more complicated than that, and I actually don’t like that I’m not eligible for the draft based on principle (I’m a man, I should be eligible for draft. Plain and simple). But when it comes to medicine and the legalities of it, I do think that there should be an FTM option.

I feel like putting "insubordination towards shift leads" as the reason for my termination literally the day after I reported the retaliation for the 4th time from that same shift leads. Boss also told me that is was because if "leads name" when I asked if thats why he just said yes. I know i have no PROOF of that part but.

 I know it was because I complained about the situation to many times. Prooving that is another issue on its own

lol Reddit doesn’t exist without “editorializing”, the hell you on about. I replied later on with what he should really be asking for, parts & labor warranty/rental and towing to/from his home. 

He asked questions and I answered those. The shop could’ve easily fought him on it, an engine swap doesn’t diminish the value of his car any further, and he isn’t entitled to any damages other than a full OEM replacement of his engine.

The rest is to let him know he’s lucky and to stop worrying about how to squeeze more money out of the situation and be thankful it was as smooth as it was. The tone of the post is what drove the judgements, and why I felt I needed to give him the dose of reality he deserved. 

Plus it’s Reddit and it’s fun, so get fucked my boy.

True, but letting them get away with it doesn't feel right either. What if I'm not the first person(I'm definitely not the first nor the last) they have done this to. its about whats right,you know?

He's simply asking questions. Answer with information or move on with your life.

Keep working at the inspection shop on crappy old cars, hopefully you’ll eventually work your way up to porter at an actual dealership. Hate to lose you at the inspection shop though, the thought of all those worn ball joints driving around 😱

Well considering the $1,000 was for a totally different issue why would he think he gets it back. He’ll get a free engine and that’s it. I see this shit daily as a master certified technician. Everyone always trying to get free stuff

Brand new? More likely reman/used.

From the handbook: 

"If you feel that you’ve been subjected to sexual harassment or if you witness another employee
being sexually harassed, you should immediately report it to your supervisor or manager and document
the incident(s) in writing. Regardless of whom you make a report to, COMPANY NAME
management we will promptly investigate and document all complaints and take appropriate corrective
action based on our findings. While we will be discreet, we cannot guarantee complete confidentiality, as
it may be necessary to identify the persons involved in order to gather information"

As in, they won't put the new bolt in? Not sure I understand what you meant (not OP, but my car has one-time bolts too).

Reman/used far more likely.

What does your employment contract say?  Talk to a lawyer.

They definitely removed this quickly...

What are you on about? I don't know the OP, and neither do you, so we take his post at face value. He's asking some questions about what cash he might recover, and what the value of his car is. I don't know about you, but I'd certainly be interested in recovering $1000 if I could. So he misunderstands---reasonably correct him. Why rant about "entitlement"?

I sorry you cannot have kids and something many go through. But the fact of the matter is many people have this notion that animals are furbabies and start humanizing them. A cat will never think or be anything more than a cat. A dog cant ever think or be anything more more than a dog. A frog a frog, and so on. A child can become a scientist, an astronaut, a doctor, a surgeon, a philanthropic guru, a world peace maker, a war driven leader, etc. 

Thats why I dont understand when people say their animal os their human baby.

If an actual lawsuit has been filed with the courts, it is always prudent to have an actual lawyer representing you. 

You should certainly vet your lawyer before picking one, and have a good long discussion about this being frivolous, about trying to minimize costs, about expectations, and strategies you and your attorney can (and will) use in approaching this to achieve those minimized costs. 

  
You probably really don't want a default judgement. 

Your homeowners insurance may provide a lawyer for you as part of what you already pay for.

  
Your mortgage, or insurance policy, may necessitate you notifying them of any actual legal action against the property/you.  The mortgage may say you need to clear it, in which case you will want an attorney to do so in order to do it expeditiously. 

  
You really haven't provided enough details to give any sort of real feedback here. 

I would say generally, yes you want a lawyer.

Not legally, no. That doesn’t necessarily mean that they won’t though. If you think that is what they are planning to do, the most practical advice is to get as many of your valuables out beforehand as you can.

aaaand this is the comment that made me cry ❤️ i'm okay, my dogs are okay. they ate a 10-pack of flour tortillas yesterday, but they will never eat a tomato for as long as i live!!

I can help, just need his exact address and when he’ll be home, and if he has any guns in the house.

You were already terminated by your previous employer. Do not agree to the 1099. You will be taxed out the ying yang. Better yet give them a counter offer. Your 1099 salary is paid in the form of a weekly tip or straight overtime. Both are nontaxable.

Look for your “RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY DISCLOSURE FORM” in the paperwork.

Why come out so negatively? The man asked some questions regarding significant damages and repairs to his car. Answer with info and move along, or don't answer, but skip the pointless editorializing.

if you are concerned enough to do this much research, just dont do it. find someone who is 18, or wait till she is.

Absolutely get a lawyer through the VA and stop listening to what her lawyer is telling her

Do you think it’s worth it to try to sue?

Agree. Specifically, I don’t think it would be disclosed on this section:

H) PRESENCE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Do you know of the previous or current presence of any of the below
identified hazardous materials on the property?

5) Other toxic or hazardous substances ❑ Yes ❑ No ❑ Unknown

But it should be disclosed here:

N) OTHER KNOWN MATERIAL DEFECTS: The following are other known material defects in or on the property:
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________

For purposes of this section, material defects would include any non-observable physical condition existing on the property that could
be dangerous to anyone occupying the property or any non-observable physical condition that could inhibit a person’s use of the
property.

Let me help you out here. Negligent discharges  only happen because idiots are involved. Whether some piece of shit "rapper," or some woefully unqualified "armorer" on a movie set. 

Regardless, this post is likely bullshit.

No reputable shop should ever miss something like that, especially after having the car around 75 days.

No you can't break you lease yet. Although there was a gas leak for a week it doesn't sound like they were aware of it for that period of time. They came out and thought they fixed it, but it didn't work. If they straight up refuse to fix it, them you are on a path we you could potentially break the lease, but you have to give them a chance to fix it

Not sure why you're being downvoted since you're merely adding info and commenting. Even if there's misunderstanding on your part, you're being reasonable. But the Internet is the Internet.

17 and 19 is not ew calm down lmao

OP: read "violation of chapter 109A if the sexual act occurred in the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States" for that law.

Assuming it’s not in small claims court, yes you should still get an attorney. Even with a strong case you still have to know court procedure and file the right motions.

Just leave them off your resume. They can't ruin your reputation if they aren't asked about it.

If OP is quoting from the initial repair bill when he states no bodywork was done, then it's not a case of underestimating damage.

Thank you, I’m coming to terms with the loss of it. It could be worse

............. just ewwwwwww

This is very very difficult. Unfortunately you’re going to need a prenup and you’re gonna need to put money in a trust for your child immediately. How is this guy at 26 already have three kids? That’s not a danger sign for you?

There’s a lot of a terrible advice in this thread. I’m going to simplify it for you. 

If the cops ask you anything, tell them you want a lawyer and decline to answer questions. 

Avoiding them is going to make anything better or make anything go away.

You can report this to your own insurance if you have coverage, or you can sue him personally likely in small claims. Your girlfriend’s testimony is evidence of what happened in the accident.

I don't know what paperwork you have, but without the bill of sale, the original owner (neighbor) could call the police and report it stolen at any time.

At that point it would be your word against his and a flimsy story about a neighbor selling it to you on his behalf. Not to mention you not paying for it.

Best case scenario you get charged with receiving stolen property from the "neighbor". Worst case scenario the "neighbor" disappears and you get charged with theft.

From the Internet I can't judge the character of this neighbor, but it all sounds fishy.

It sounds like you are willing to pay for it, so just close it with the original owner since you have the papers.

Don't pick up the jetski (or pay) until you get a bill of sale.

And if they want you on their turf. They aren’t going to give you a choice in the matter. They can detain you and transport you to the station for questioning. Running from it isn’t going to help. 

You just ask for a lawyer. And they’ll either arrest you or let you go. They can’t continue questioning you when you ask for a lawyer.

It’s her property.  

You’d simply be returning it. 

You should be able to ask the dmv about getting a temp tag to move it.

It's pretty common to use weapons as props in videos, usually people are smart enough to handle them safely but not everyone does. Even in high budget Hollywood movies people get accidentally injured from time to time. See Alec Baldwin's recent tragedy.

Ok, then they can start the court process. I'm not sure why you're being purposefully annoying.

You're not going to win this. In what you wrote, you already admit that your ex 1) smoked in/near the vicinity of the apartment, 2) stayed at the apartment for significant periods despite not being on the lease, and 3) caused noise complaints filed against you as a result of DV. That is already enough reason to throw you out, and they don't have to give you the benefit of the doubt when it comes to the current smoke situation, your child, or anything else. Landlords don't issue notices to vacate to paying tenants willy-nilly, so I can assure you that they have documentation, even if they're not providing it this instant. Save yourself the trouble and start looking for a new place.

You still might be able to return it,  if so return it.

Yeah I’m not too worried about it honestly, but it’s just the fact this dude got one over on me something crazy lol hate to see it happen

So they cant lock us out or enter without something? I know they are supposed to give a notice before coming by but they arent allowed to just enter because we are late and past the date they want?

And if he's going to lose either way, why not be massively in debt at the same time?

Who says he's going to lose?

Send the keys to them with a signed receipt.  Don’t sign anything.  Apply for unemployment

Also. Don’t answer NO to everything they ask. This is terrible advice. Just politely decline to answer questions. 

Don’t engage them in any questions. Don’t ask them about your wallet. You’ll be contacted if your wallet is found. And street cops won’t have any idea about your wallet. That’s an administrative problem that has a specific department. All the speculation about them using it as trick to come down the station is BS. IF THEY WANT TO QUESTION YOU, they will do it with or without your cooperation. Unless you intend to run from the law this is also a terrible advice.

Someone offering equity in lieu of full billable rate isn't getting past my intake staff.

not a lawyer and I dont live in pittsburgh, but I’d think unless you have some way to prove beyond a doubt that he is the reason behind the damage to your girls car, you’re pretty much screwed. I’d talk to your girl about exchanging insurance info in the future if she is ever involved in another accident, taking lots of photos to document the incident, and notifying law enforcement if applicable. at least it sounds like it is minor cosmetic damage in this case and should be fine to drive around with if yall cant afford/don’t want to pay out of pocket to fix it

No

You sell it and hopefully make more than you owe.

If you take it back to the dealership they may buy it back but you won't get top dollar.

I just don't know what is going on. My husband was arrested on a multitude of assault charges and has a no contact plus EPO with me. I reported multiple breaches of the orders last week and they put out a warrant for his arrest for them. He had court this morning to enter a plea for the assault charges and did that and left the building without being arrested for the breaches. He is out and still attempting to contact me through obscure places like the Spotify app so he is clearly still at large. Can I call the police and inquire about it? Is it possible they dropped the arrest warrant for him at court?

That situation really enhances the point that there are four unique genders. You are a trans man, which is 100% it's own thing from a cis man. This situation is like you getting a notice saying you broke the law by not signing up for the draft.

I hope some day people can make that argument too instead of trying to say there are even more.

Have you talked to them? I've been annoyed by things that other people do and you'd be surprised how accommodating people can be if you ask them to adjust nicely.

Yes I agree with that, but it is not always the case.

And they have specifically stated that there has not been court involvement.

I'm really not sure what you are trying to say.

I completely agree with everything you said. However because OP’s car was involved, this made OP an active part of the investigation. Requiring him to identify himself. 

The charge would be: 
Maintaining a Drug Vehicle (MCL 333.7405(1)(d))

Jesus this is what 20 years of being a Toyota lube tech and inhaling brake clean daily does

I assume they bought for fair market value.

I wouldn’t even worry about it. Likly they put her name down as a minor living in the home and didn’t actually sign for her as a responsible lease party. I’ve had to do that with many rentals I’ve had just to list my child in the home . Doesn’t mean she’s on the hook for a lease and even if they said she was 17 so they could sign for her, still can’t legally be in a contact so not sure what the point of them lying was 😂  it doesn’t sound real honestly. Tell her to live her life and forget about it

Alright, thank you. It was at a for-profit company that would have paid me for donating, and I was wondering if companies had the right to make this kind of decision. I appreciate your answer

If you are a tenant, they can’t “seize” the property. They have to formally evict you through the courts. If they haven’t start that process yet, it will take longer than the week that you have left.

lol, you think that’s the only shop I’ve worked in? Started at 15 in a tire shop, worked my way up…bud. Keep being a hero and getting those worn ball joints off the road before someone dies /s🙄

The law was related to blood donations, which is different than private, for-profit companies that pay people in exchange for plasma. Thats why I mentioned their private software hasnt been updated, but they are probably protected by some private corporation reserves their right to refuse service for any reason type policy.

Depends on what trust there was already. It does sound like this situation is a surprise to the OP. And parents might make good money, but that doesn’t mean they have a bunch lying around to pay medical debt. OP does not mention if he did have some medical stuff that would have needed to be paid. If so, then Mom should have said something to him before taking it, but this might just be a misunderstanding.

Do not comment unless you can answer the question posed.  You may be banned if you ignore this.

A 7.62, you say? You didn't happen to notice that they were carting around either a full size rifle or an ak-47? I doubt too many gangbangers are carrying around Tokarev pistols, unless your studio caters to Russians.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Okay, he certainly doesn't have to take my advice he can certainly pay tens of thousands of dollars to attorneys instead. And if he's going to lose either way, why not be massively in debt at the same time?

That's some bullshit shenanigans, but look on the bright side - congratulations on transitioning to the point that you're being discriminated on as a man!

Are you going to wait till she finally tries to off you?

The real owner is the neighbor which is no where to be found.

And it doesn’t count as “theft” or anything if I do that because I have the papers?

Of course I would still need to go to the sellers house and get the jetski from him

Not legal advice but on the flip side I had a false positive from donating and now am permanently precluded from donating.

The system is indeed flawed.

That is probably true, but  banks will do a no down payment loan if the equity is there. That was my point. If they did manage to find a home that was worth more than the asking price then she is entitled to her share of the equity. Assuming there is any, as you also pointed out.

He needs to refinance the mortgage to take your name off in order to have a clean break. Then after refinancing can you take your name off the deed. Or it has to be sold to pay off the mortgage then clean break. 

Gifts are yours, car is his.

Go to small claims if you have to unless they provide an itemized invoice of all damages.

There is a space on the disclosure form for known hazardous conditions and environmental contamination. In this case, they would have known about the glass, so if they did not disclose it here, you would be able to go after them for breach of contract.

You did the right thing. Just relax. There’s no way for them to prove you knew this individual. 

Cops are not good people. Dealing with them is a nuisance. And they might charge you because “you can figure it out in court” (That’s what I was told when I got arrested for a DUI while I was as sober as could be.) IF YOU GET ARRESTED, document everything, you’ll get a nice little payday when you sue them. 

I wish I had better suggestions for you. But this is the world we live in.

So you work on basically brand new vehicles at a dealer… Sounds like you don’t get cars in with real mileage bud

Thank you for your help, I deeply appreciate it. I need to delete this post because I don't want him to make my life even worse if he finds it Thank you!

I thought that this law was lifted in 2023, though? Because HIV tests are very reliable now, and there is no need to be cautious about MSM donating provided they fit the other sexual activity eligibilities. 

I know it’s not about me personally and it’s a blanket law, I just thought the law was no longer in effect.

It’s not my house nor my fence. I was staying at their place.

In general the housing market has gone down in the last 12 months, and even if the house held its value, they've likely paid down very little principal in such a short time.

Pets aren't human babies. And people stiff  (don't pay) vets all the time. And vets don't have insurance to direct bill.  You should be outraged someone would get urgent medical services for a pet and not pay.

You'd only be able to sue for the value of the dog. The fact that your fence was not maintained is going to work against you.

This is terrible advice; as if we didnt already think of that?

I had thought those disappeared after the financial crisis, guess I was wrong!

Here’s the important question:

Are you okay?

Would he put the car in your name if you agree to let him have the house?

That is way too much to read. Here’s the summary: 

A maintenance employee (who also serves as a manager) at a large new hotel in Michigan arrived for his 9-5 shift, having left his wallet and iPad visible in his car. A disruptive guest, previously noted for odd behavior, was observed peeking into vehicles, entered the unlocked car, used drugs (described as crack or meth pipe) inside, then caused a scene in the parking lot. Two witnesses reported the incident; the front desk agent assisted the guest back to his room. The employee and Assistant GM called police and monitored the guest on the fifth floor. Paramedics transported the guest to the hospital as police arrived. The guest identified the employee’s car as the location where he had used drugs; police reported recovering paraphernalia and substances from the front seat.

The employee discovered his missing items at lunch, reviewed security footage (showing the guest entering the car), canceled his cards, and reported the theft. Police later questioned him, accusing him of knowing the guest and enabling drug use at the workplace. He denied all involvement, offered to submit to drug testing and searches of his person and vehicle, and eventually stopped cooperating after repeated accusations. Police patted him down, checked for warrants, and released him. He now fears potential charges despite no evidence of involvement.

maybe get them some really fine netting and poles so they can make a catcher for the seeds around the tree?

I would report the disclosure to HR in writing. Report any episodes of retaliation or coworkers creating a hostile work environment. There wouldn’t be any case unless those things happen and HR doesn’t properly address them. You should just go about your job and just report report report if anything happens. Obviously call the police if anybody is being threatening or being violent.

He can't really sue you.  Tell him he needs to refinance the mortgage and after that is complete you will take yourself off the deed.  He can't sue you for the house because both of you own it.  He can't kick you out until you're off the mortgage because you both own the property.  He can make your life difficult during this transition.  He can keep you from driving the car, you aren't in the title or registration so that is his right.

In addition to. A good legal career offers more than just money, it offers in addition to money, extra opportunity, with the right team or mission. Definitely going to depend on the person who is the attorney, because that’s user-defined.

Why assume that? We did a no down payment loan on our house,  because the appraisal came back twice as much as we were borrowing?

Stop being that neighbor.  Leave them alone.  If the noise bothers you close your windows and turn on your air conditioner.

Its not discrimination against you specifically, it is applied universally to all men whove had sex with men. Its a blanket precaution based on outdated standards. There are efforts to change things, but the software systems need to be updated too.

My guess was an equity deal on some level.

I've sat through several pitch meetings and never bit (and never regretted it). Gotta pay the student loans.

From what I gather its co-owned, both on the note, car title is his, car note is his.

If my name wasn't on the house I would've gotten myself a financed car and left already. I only stayed to be able to keep going to work. I would've lived in my car if necessary.

You both should try to come to some form of agreement, put it down on paper, then have a lawyer review it to ensure it's legally binding. Then you both sign it and have it notarized. You want something to protect your interests and he will want the same. Just remember, even if you leave the house, as long as your name is on the mortgage, you are still financially responsible for the home. If he ends up going through foreclosure or anything, it affects your credit too.

You not caring or thinking too deeply about money is how you ended up here. It’s time to care. You need to get an attorney. If you can’t afford one reach out to legal aids or free legal services in your area. Getting your name off the house will not be the easiest or cheapest. But you need to do that. Do NOT take advice from him. He can afford legal advice from an attorney and he has no reason to do what’s best or right for you. Don’t put anything on a credit card. That’s dumb as hell!

And this is why you don't buy a house with a boyfriend

Normally when two people buy a home and split up I would say you should ask him to buy you out, and if he won't file a partition action to force a sale of the property. But in this case with 0 down payment you don't really have any equity in the house and given he is the only one paying the mortgage you wouldn't get anything out if a partition sale. 

Best bet is to just walk away and sign over your interest in the house. 

The deed isn't the issue, you can solve that easily enough. The problem is getting yourself off the mortgage which may require him to refinance which could go smoothly or not.

I wouldn't recommend even trying to get (c)(3) status at this point. It's not worth the effort and extra reporting obligations, and would likely be blown before the department could take advantage of it.

Options that come to mind are:

* a member calls a meeting and votes to amend the bylaws (if allowed by the same);
* a member files a derivative lawsuit against the corporation. Some resident or business owner sues the corporation/board;
* maybe there's a public/private partnership option between the state and department or county and department that comes in to run things; or
* the department shuts down.

You might be able to find a sympathetic attorney in AL to provide some limited guidance/counseling pro bono. If you have a group of chiefs at the state level, you might start asking/networking there.

Yes, I think it may very well be a scam or spam.

If they did somehow neglect to run my card years ago, would that be my responsibility?

$32. Maybe plus equipment and fees close to $50

Your name being on the house is the biggest reason he hasn't can't throw you out. If you had just been living with him while he owned the home he technically could go through the eviction process to evict you. I know you are in a tough spot financially but it really could have been a lot worse.

If the disclosure leads to an actual unsafe work environment then that absolutely could be grounds for a employment lawsuit, but fear of it would likely not be grounds for a lawsuit. No protecting an employee from retaliation is illegal.

I called animal control and called the cops. Neither did anything.

I appreciate this! Particularly in offering some social opportunities to just talk, as well as spaces to meet them.

A company is only as good as who it knows.

When a dog is highly aroused in a fight, they go on redirection autopilot. The bystander made a classic mistake by putting his hands in, but his intent was just to separate them. If your dog initiated the attack, you are legally and behaviorally responsible for the entire chain reaction. If you cannot fully control your dog, you are liable for the consequences.
1 Is this a pattern? Was this a one-off event or a repeating issue?

Contact The Florida Council on Sexual Violence.  They will be in a better position to answer your questions and give you advice.  

Also, AIUI, there is a substantial possibility that this is not barred by the statute of limitations,  depending on certain variables-particularly if it happened after 2003.   The Council should also be able to help you determine that.  

Best of luck.

To clarify:

*  Whose name(s) is(are) on the title to the house?
* Whose name(s) is(are) on the mortgage/note/loan  for the house?
* Whose name(s) is(are) on the title to the car?
* Whose name(s) is(are) on the note/loan to the car?

Thank you ❤️ I appreciate your comment a lot.

Legally a pet is property. It’s like taking your car to be fixed; you have to pay the bill before you get to take the car back.

I agree it feels terrible and upsetting when you feel like your pet is a family member.  But legally that’s the situation.

That said, it does also just make sense from a pet care perspective.  Your pet is resting and relatively calm so once they give her back to you, it’s best for her if you can just be on your way, not have her stressed out in the waiting area while you do paperwork and ask aftercare questions.

Ehh… I guess technically you are right but over complicating it. 

Are you on the deed? (You have ownership interest on the home)
Are you on the mortgage/note? (You have a financial responsibility to paying the loan)

Your employer isn’t obligated to give you a week off for your course. They can discipline or fire you in response for missing your scheduled shifts. 

What exactly they can do depends on the collective agreement with your union. Some CAs guarantee progressive discipline, for example, meaning for most issues they first have to caution you, then suspend you, then finally can fire you. It would also depend on whether your hours are guaranteed by your CA, how schedules and hours of work are assigned, and how vacation/unpaid leave/non-availability for shifts is handled for your position. 

Talk to your union. They are the only ones legally able to and obligated to represent you, and would have the best knowledge of your situation.

You can sue anyone for anything though, so expect them to file a lawsuit

Sorry I don't have any legal advice, but just want to say that this is a totally bullshit policy and has no scientific basis. You should definitely be eligible

I don't care about the money, honestly I don't want any. I just want to be able to work and pay for my own place. I've been looking into places to rent but it will be very expansive for me to lyft to work but i don't have much of a choice. I don't have any family near me. I'm on my own. Thank you for your answer it helped me a lot.

When you do cobra, the employer doesn't pay anything and the former employee is responsible for both their portion of the premium and the amount the company formerly paid during their employment. 

Here's an example:  If the employee paid  $300 a month for their premium when employed, and the employer paid $600 to the insurance company for the employee, then during Cobra the former employee would now be responsible for $900 a month with cobra because they are no longer employed and no longer receive any employer contribution. 

Most likely the (now former) employer is offering to continue their contribution for 12 weeks (3 months) as part of the settlement. After 12 weeks OP would be responsible for the full amount for Cobra if they chose to continue it

The right thing to do here is delete the email

Deed... note... didn't really see the need to muddy the waters and over complicate things here. Was mainly referring to a) are you financially responsible for the home and b) do you have an ownership interest in the home.

Yes but he's going to have to go to court and legally force the issue which he may not have the cash to do so. For now she doesn't have to move

I quit a job recently, and was joking about just screwing up enough on my last day, so they would fire me.  Just so I could get unemployment insurance.  But my retirement benefits were scheduled to kick in, in one month, so I just left.   Really funny thing was, I got pretty drunk the night before, and I’m positive I was still drunk when I showed up for work.   Was hoping someone would catch it, as drinking was an automatic sent to rehab for a few weeks (w/ pay).   No one noticed.

Yeah I'm just saying a buyout would be nothing.

The month of May, when you earned the commission, is over.  So, it is difficult to understand how you could ask to work until the end of the month, when the month is already over.  I assumed that you quit before May was over, and were being refused a check that was due at the end of May, for commissions you earned in May. If you are talking about June, a lot of what you are saying doesn't make any sense.

Regardless of whether or not there is a HR department or a handbook/policy distributed to you, seemingly, there would have been some sort of contract, employment agreement, or some other written document which described how you would be paid in terms of salary, hourly rate, commissions, etc.  This would be the kind of written document which would govern if and when you were owed the commission check.  If there was no written agreement of any kind, and all you have is a verbal agreement, then you will have a harder time proving that you are owed this commission check which you say the company is refusing to pay you.  However, as I noted, if you had been paid these commissions previously, you might still convince the judge in Small Claims Court that you are owed that money.

If I knew how all this worked I wouldn't have put my name on the house at all.

Ok, so there isn't much equity in the home so you likely aren't going to get money there. Do NOT put the debt you speak of onto your credit card. It is both of your responsibilities. However, since you want out, you need to come up with an exit strategy. In fact, you should have thought about that before you told him you wanted out. I get you can't change that now. He legally can't kick you out of the home as you also own it. I would suggest you start sleeping in another room. If he takes away your access to the vehicle, then stop paying the insurance, but tell him you have stopped paying the insurance when you do so.

So develop an exit strategy. What can you do to get out of the house and into someplace else? Whether that is your own place or with someone else such as family or friend. Think about how to resolve your transportation issue. Can you use public transit or Uber/Lyft until you can save enough money to purchase your own form of transportation. I would walk away from expecting any equity from the home. I would propose to him that you are developing your own strategy to move on and that you will move out once you have the fund to be self sufficient AND when he refinances the mortgage to remove your name. At that time you will also agree to relinquish your interest in the home and will sign your ownership over to him (however I strongly suggest you find out how much equity is really in the home before agreeing to that). Once you are no long bound to the mortgage you should have better luck buying a vehicle and obtaining a lease.

As far as the other things he bought you, what types of things are they? If they aren't things like cars or real estate that have established ownership, they are likely yours even if he paid for them. A possible exception could be an engagement ring but I believe you would have mentioned if you were engaged.

The only law firm I used was Morris & Dewett in Louisiana.  I had a different experience, they were always in communication with me.  Used their texting function and my case manager and attorney called me back.  They always followed up on treatment and appointments. I would be interested in how this actually resovles itself.

Half of nothing but still legally a half owner of the house

Being on the deed and the mortgage doesn’t necessarily mean they are also on the note.    The mortgage and deed would need to match for foreclosure purposes, but as far as being bound to pay the loan, that’s who is on the note.  We see it a lot with married couples, usually not as much with unmarried couples.

You are free to contact the department of aging or Adult Protective Services if you are concerned about them.

It’s unlikely that anything is done about this. Even if they’re “not well” they’re not actively harming anyone or breaking any laws. The state isn’t going to jump in to force an old couple to stop vacuuming their own property.

There's no quick way for him to kick you out if that's your primary concern.

That makes sense, Thank you for your response. I'm so sorry about my illiteracy on the subject. I'm just super anxious.

You cannot control what others do on their own property being applicable statute and ordinance. 

Nor is keeping an immaculate lawn a likely mental health concern.

She needs to get a job. She’s the one wanting a divorce so she doesn’t assume she gets alimony. Get a lawyer to push back on that.

Yes, I am/was worried it might be spam so was wary to even open the attachment or login to the site linked. The business name is entirely different, and it does not have any reference to the older business name.

What half? Sounds like you have no equity in the house.

I don't care about the money. I just want to know if he can sue me or kick me out or ruin my life. and what is the best thing for me to do in this situation.

wait they wrote down your pin number? that's super sketchy and probably against payment card rules. most businesses can't even store that info

  
i'd be really careful about responding to that email without verifying it's legit first. after 5+ years with zero documentation, this feels more like a scam than a real debt

Consult an attorney that specializes in property. They are trying to be cheap.

If you guys have zero equity, then your half is zero.

ur lease should have a section regarding remediation, look into that and if they haven't abided by what the lease outlines, send a communication in writing referencing that and see what they do.

Your answer should be “no”. 

He sounds like he’s positioning himself to leave. If he threatens to leave over this, let him. Don’t eff yourself to salvage your relationship.

The family member is a director of a department in our town

The select board is sending the letter

They were not told what the complaint is (should they have been informed?)

So go to another subreddit. It’s legal in your jx to hold an animal for non payment. You asked and were answered. Go let off your steam about it elsewhere.

Probably retain an attorney with knowledge of the area/nature of the complaint. 

For example, if it's a regulatory/compliance matter, an attorney with knowledge of the state or local laws and regulations governing your family member's profession.

From what I gather, it was a no money down mortgage.

Gifts are yours to keep.

The car is his. Your ability to get to work is unfortunately, your own problem.

Did you already put the house repair debt on your card? Don’t do that. A “clean break” really is not an option, as you are on the deed and mortgage of the home. He will need your cooperation to refinance the loan into his own name, and do a deed transfer.
You are equally responsible for the mortgage, but it does not sound like you’ve been a contributor. Maybe you can negotiate use of the car until a refinance can be completed so you can buy your own car.

It sounds like there were a significant financial benefits to you in the relationship, and when the relationship ends the financial benefit benefits do too.

This isn't clear.

What's your legal question? What is the family member's position, what board is sending this, what is the complaint if any?

They're seeking an easement rather than a lease. 

I don't know the intricacies of the difference between the two, other than what Google tells me.

I donated over 400 hours of my time and over $50k of my money last year to save animals. So clearly I don’t.

You said  lot of words for someone who didn’t answer my question.

So you guys have approximately zero equity in the house?

It's less expensive than possible alternatives

There is a chance that he takes $2,300 from you and then files a claim. So he gets $2,300 for nothing and then your insurance repairs their vehicle.

They could increase for an at-fault accident, yes. Your options are to pay a negotiated repair amount you're comfortable with after reviewing the estimate and considering any pre-existing damage, or turn it over to insurance and let them sort it out if you don't/can't settle.

He only paid it for a year so I don't think it gained much equity.

Probably means “rolling into” - so 0% down?

But you asked about legality. People answered about legality. Anything else, frankly, has nothing to do with this question or this subreddit.

I told him the best would be to sell and he wants to keep it. But i doubt he'll react positively If i tell him He'd have to buy my half, I'm still living here because I don't have a place to go, and he's being extremely nasty and unreasonable about all this.

Focus on the responses of helpful people. Many of the people in the comments here are idiots, and I'm sorry you have to deal with them. Many others are compassionate and understand they don't have the complete picture. Listen to those ones. I'm sorry you're going through this. Unless you are already under conservatorship, there is no legal basis for your father to restrict your medications. He may be able to report you, but there's a lot more that goes into you being committed than him "locking you up". Contact a crisis center, and they may be able to walk you through these steps. Not sure of your location, but there are likely local crisis lines that can help you in the short term.

That doesn’t make any sense. 

Did you guys pay any money up front for the house or not? Did you personally pay any money when you guys bought the house, or did only he?

They are asking to buy the land or lease the land?

Maybe you should be over at r/moraldilemmas instead of r/legaladvice?

You should do what you should have done in the first place -- call your insurance company and let them handle it.  Do not speak to the other driver again other than to provide him with a claim number and phone number for the claims adjuster.

Ok so you didn’t put anything up for the down payment technically so not for something you can ask for. Since you are on the deed, you may have a financial interest in the home, possibly. But he could argue that you are not paying towards the mortgage so you shouldn’t be entitled to any equity. Do you know much much equity the home currently has?

Lmao you are delusional. Good thing you cant have real human kids, look at your behavior.

That was what she had left for him in her previous Will from 15 years ago when he was already estranged from us for a lengthy amount of time.   When she had her will updated after my Dad died, she didn't want to leave him anything and I told her not to do that because I knew he would make my life a living hell all because of her decisions.     So she's left him a sum of money and whaddddya knowwww he's not satisfied with that amount.  🤷🏻‍♀️

also my mother who lives far away has gotten very sick, and i haven’t been able to travel to help out

"Clean Break" is going to be hard, regardless of how much he does or doesn't trust you.  He cannot force you to put any house debt on a credit card (and it's a terrible idea for you).  If you're both owners of the house (your name is on the deed), then one of you will need to buy the others portion of the house to fully separate, or both agree to sell the house.  He's trying to double screw you by getting you to 1) walk away from your portion of the financial equity in the house, and 2) take the debt with you. 

It sounds like it's his car, so you'll probably need to figure out a different plan there.

As for the gifts.... legally they're yours now.  When you move out, take the gifts with you. Don't tell him this plan before that day.

I don't understand that sentence as written.

That’s good to know, sounds worth me looking into to then!

I wanted to do volunteer work but unfortunately with my driving privileges i’m limited to work and emergency doctor appointments. I have donated to victims of speeding accidents, i’ve taken classes that werent mandatory, and it def does create hardship within my life. I had a child at 16 who i unfortunately had to give for adoption. I used to visit him multiple times a month but now i can’t see him at all. It also has given me hardship on my career aswell. I really appreciate the information thank you so much

Employees (and former employees) in Oregon are indeed entitled to their employee file, but employee file in this context has a fairly narrow definition. Complaints made by the employee are not included, unless those complaints were considered when disciplining the employee who made the complaint.

But won’t premiums increase significantly

Well, if you think he's pulling a fast one and aren't confident those damages were caused by you I would go through your insurance.

It might be the simple case of taking care of payment and going over medication/after care without the owner being distracted by the pet. Most clinics prefer to talk to owners while they are not distracted. 
The statement you wrote says nothing about keeping an animal if you cannot pay.

Nah, you’d hit her and then tell her she’s acting “insane” when she bit you in response. Don’t come at somebody with a bitter sarcastic attitude and then claim they’re “insane” when they return the energy

the down payment was enrolled in the house loan.

It's possible but highly unlikely given the nature of the violation.  The court absolutely has access to your criminal record and any outstanding warrants and can easily share that information with the law enforcement already in the building.  This is, in fact, how we arrested one of my charge-dodgers back when I was prosecuting unregistered contractors in WA state. We found out he had an appearance due in a civil case (stalking) and we informed the court and the sheriff of the fact -- once his appearance was done, the sheriffs stopped him in the hallway and arrested him.  He showed up at his next criminal hearing, even though he'd posted bail and was out of jail within 24 hours.

Get your shit in order and deal with your outstanding warrant.

1. You can let DLSE know of this and see what, if anything, they do. 

2. No. You have free speech. So do they. 

3. You can. 

4. See 2. On some level we might talk about tortious interference. I’d want to know their story and their side.

Glad this is just Reddit. Would hate having to deal with this person if they walked through my door.

Respectfully, learn to read. I’m not “whining about having to pay the bill” like everyone here is saying. I have the money to pay and am not worried about paying at all. I’ve simply been saying that it’s cruel to hold a pet hostage if someone can’t pay, and I’m not changing my mind about that

Yes I’m at fault hit his rear at a stop light not judging the distance properly, haven’t involved insurance yet

Then I can understand you not being able to to get a car loan if you don’t have the income to sustain another loan. What does he plan to do about your equity in the home? Did you put up anything for the down payment?

Not legal advice, but I’m not aware of any law in Michigan restricting what your landlord can charge for based on RUBS.

It sounds like your entire claim is centered around the landlord listing it as an utility rather than something else, but as far as I’m aware, there’s nothing that says they can’t call it whatever they want as long as it’s not misleading.

Again, people gave you facts and you are acting insane. I feel sorry for the cat that has to deal with you. Give them to me.

Sending you to collections doesn’t pay their bills, or for the equipment they need to care for your pet. Your motivation to pay is knowing you need to in order to collect your animal at the end.

If you're in an unsafe area you should report it to your employer and be moved. If that's not happening contact OSHA. I'm still not clear on how close you are to this.

both and the down payment was enrolled in the house loan.

You are correct on that one. We became extremely codependent after my divorce and I have struggled with just telling him to fuck off forever. After, the abuse with my children present, I kicked out of my life/home but we sometimes communicated and I tried to help him get back on his feet after his jail stay, which was a mistake. We truly have a sick and broken relationship, but I have done a lot of therapy and now see the relationship for what it was. 
I was once feeling as down as him and I believe he got satisfaction out of that but now he seems infuriated because I got my life together and I no longer need him in any way.

She’s seven years younger than than me so when I said something at 14 she was too young to understand, so I don’t know what version was told to her when she was older. just that I had to “go away.”

We’re estranged literally since then.

You just put it on interest free CareCredit, then use the reinbursement to pay the bill. I get the reinbursement in less than 5 days.

What happened in the accident, are you at fault? Have you involved your own insurance?

Good points. I’m hesitant about contacting OSHA because it’s such a small company. No retaliation and all sounds good, but is rarely delivered.

My cat and I will live our best life and be thankful that we’re not bitter and sarcastic and hateful to strangers the way you are 😊

Respectfully, get a grip. You asked legally. We answered legally. The vet, whose education is nearly as or as much a medical doctors, doesn’t owe you charity. If you can’t afford to purchase insurance or save an emergency fund, reconsider having a pet in the future.

The people with PPE are about 3-4 yards away. They are removing windows/rebuilding the rooms across the hall from me at the moment.

I would ask if there are others so she's more comfortable, but generally speaking it's legal to (visually) record common areas.

Would it be possible to just send the keys back via certified mail? They'd have to sign for the package so you'd have proof of return. Would be much cheaper than driving that far out of your way not to mention the time saved.

Doesn’t sound like he bought you a car. It sounds like he bought a car and is letting you use it. 

As far as the house goes, is your name on the deed? Is it on the mortgage?

If you knew how to read, you’d see where I already said I can pay the bill. I wouldn’t have set up the appointment if I didn’t. I’m not worried about this happening to my cat. It just ticked me off to see that on her paperwork, and I wondered if it was something they can legally do. I don’t think it’s right at all. If someone can’t pay, send them to collections - not traumatize a pet. Besides, if they keep the pet then the vet has to pay for their care which doesn’t sound financial in the interest of the vet office.

You asked for legal advice and people gave you the facts. Now pay the vet bill and whine to your cat about it.

They were all different than my regular pay. Ex- one was for $72, another for $450

Is it legal for me to be working in the building at this time?

Probably, as long as they keep supplying potable water, you’ve got access to a bathroom, and it’s not an active hazard wherever you’re supposed to be / you’re given the appropriate protective gear for that hazard (ex: hard hats, etc)

You can complain to OSHA if they’re failing in one or more of those aspects, but you’d probably want to find a new job before doing so

Are those things happening literally around you as you work? You are at a desk and there are people right next to you wearing hard hats?

Wait, his ex-wife and her friend were driving 4 hours each way to give you guys visitation? Wow. That really changes things. That’s the *opposite* of being difficult about visitation, especially if this visitation center is around the halfway mark for her.

I feel like if someone can’t afford the costs of an animal it’s cruel to have one.  You can’t afford your cat. A better owner will come along.

City Parks department needs to have a very stern talk with her.  The chutzpah.

I’ve considered it but I’ve heard mostly they just reimburse you after you already pay up front. Sure that helps later on if that’s the case, but doesn’t do you any good when you need money right that second in an emergency

If the loan was approved and moved to repayment, that means the dealership received the funds. Do they have an explanation about what they did with the loan funds on a car they didn't sell to her?

Naw, you hope they don't so OP can get the heck out of there!

Networking - check out your local Chamber of Commerce (ymmv) and ask business owners who they use and why.

Start-up accelerator/incubator programs - often have attorneys working in the emerging businesses space. Buy them a coffee.

You can also talk to other founders in that space and see who they use and why.

SBDC ( offer free business mentoring guidance and often have vetted lists of attorneys, accountants, and other business adjacent professionals.

Very few (if any) attorneys are going to work in trade for your company as a startup. If you have proof of concept or close to ready for market insanely great idea, maybe you'll find a unicorn. I'd plan to pay for services while you kick the tires.

It sounds like the car belongs to him completely, and that you are just borrowing it. 

How was the house purchase structured? Are you both on the loan? Both on the deed? Who paid the down payment?

I just happen to view pets as living, breathing creatures and not property like “the eyes of the law”. I think it’s cruel to hold them hostage, same as it would be cruel to hold a newborn baby hostage in the hospital over money. You all can view pets as objects if you want, but I never can no matter how much I’m downvoted 🤷‍♀️

Most Pet ERs won’t even begin treatment without payment. While I appreciate you love your cat, it’s not anyone’s responsibility to provide vet care you can’t pay for.

Does your job offer pet insurance? I pay $60/mo for my 2 cats and it covers almost everything

Your wife should stay out of it.

He sold the car to someone else while your mom has a loan on it? That sounds like fraud as hell, she needs a lawyer immediately lol

Call adult protective services and report the FF.  Their job is to protect seniors from being exploited.

There are current and former employees, that undergo the same treatment and have witnessed my treatment at said company. And I do have an indeed message from one company I recently applied to(they were fairly blunt, which brought this up.) I am at the moment trying to get more information from said indeed employer. And I honestly do appreciate your honesty, thank you (genuine)

this is the third day of you posting this and it's mostly copy/pasting the same post over again. You really need to explain the situation better than you have been because it's very hard to follow as you've written it. This is especially true if you want to make it clear to others that you have incurred any damages. 

Maybe you can sue for the price of the dog in small claims court. You'll want to have any evidence such as text messages or otherwise where he admits to having let the dog out unsupervised when he shouldn't have.

Why? It’s your responsibility to pay? Do you believe your employer should be able to make you work without pay?

The goal is to provide an opportunity where said legal talent is receiving their fair share. But terms like that come in time, and I feel best also from each party having a good relationship of the goals or outcomes (salary, career trajectory, portfolio, training opportunity, etc). 

I'm not sure what you're trying to say here. Are you saying that instead of the traditional billable hour model, you want to compensate your attorney some other way?

If your mother does not want to leave him anything, she should do as she wishes. You are the one that has been caring for her. She can leave him $1.00 or $100 so he's not "left out" of the will and less chance of protesting the will.

Bro there are YouTubers who will show up and pay you cash for all that. That is probably the best headache to have.

So in certain cases that could apply but op was never eligible for retirement just va disability unless i read the post wrong. It is counted as total income; however op has no other job nor income so ideally they would be responsible for child support and split all martial assets. Thats why im assuming everyone is saying get a lawyer because the house and cars are assets and can be used in lieu of alimony payments. House gets sold and profit split or she buys him out (if she can get approved to refinance the house and make the mortgage payments herself). The kid would be covered under ChampVa however once divorce happens the spouse would not be (its one of the reporting requirements). Another recommendation is for the 40k life insurance they now qualify for ro make only the kid the beneficiary.

**Generally Unhelpful, Simplistic, Anecdotal, or Off-Topic**

Your comment has been removed as it is generally unhelpful, simplistic to the point of useless, anecdotal, or off-topic.  It either does not answer the legal question at hand, is a repeat of an answer already provided, or is so lacking in nuance as to be unhelpful.  We require that ALL responses be legal advice or information. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. Do not make a second post. Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

*Please [read our subreddit rules]  If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.*

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Thankfully she had to remove the tomatoes after I filed a 311 request to the city—which I only did a month after this conversation, when my puppy scratched himself on one of her iron lawn sculptures. She wound up continuing to plant pretty much whatever she wanted, though... even added a peach tree at one point, but someone saw her and helped her dig it up the same day. I can't believe these are sentences I am writing right now 😩 this would all be so absurd to me if it didn't make me concerned for my safety

Does your sister not know?

IANAL

Were the amounts you received after you resigned all different? Like, completely different from what your regular pay was?

It’s not allowed with humans *or* their medical records.  Even if you owe money to your health care provider, they cannot hold your records “hostage”. 

Pets are different.

Every pay period is more accured time if small amounts

It would be very tough.

You would have to prove that they were saying things about you to other companies, that this cost you a job, and that the things they said were false. Speculation that it happened is not enough, you have to be able prove ALL three aspects (It happened, it cost you money, and it was false).

I get that. I guess it’s just disturbing to me because I can’t have human kids and she’s the closest thing I have. Thankfully I at least have the sense not to seek out vet care I can’t afford in the first place, so at least there’s that

Pets aren’t people in the eyes of the law. It’s property. A mechanic won’t release your vehicle without payment, this is the same.

Wow! That is absolutely insane and would NEVER be allowed with a human baby if the parents couldn’t pay the hospital bill. I realize pets are different than human babies, I still think they shouldn’t be treated as some kind of property to be held as collateral. Thankfully I saw the estimate and know I can pay, but it still ticked me off to see that in her paperwork.

You're welcome, and best of luck to you.

And if the cemetery refuses to do anything about it? Do I have anything I can use to argue?

I didn’t even think about them withdrawing that money back. Good idea. Hopefully it was just money they forgot to include in my last check like mileage reimbursement

That is correct. But you need to ensure you know who the real owner is. It wasn't clear in your post if it was the "seller" or the neighbor. 

I do not know if title washing is legal or acceptable in NY (where someone buys a vehicle and then resells it before titling).

But I would assume you need a bill of sale from the titled owner.

Yes. The vet can legally hold your pet if you don’t pay. It’s called a possessory lien. It varies by state, in MN it is permitted.

It is. They are charging 2K because we let them know we were moving out with 45 days notice instead of the 60 days required by the lease

They paid out my PTO on my last day so I don’t think it’s that but who knows. I just emailed them to get a copy of the paystub for those last deposits.

Ah. I wasn’t aware that’s what arrests meant. I thought it was, literally being handcuffed and taken. Thank you for your thorough responses.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. **Do not make a second post.** Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

I’m sorry that  happened.  There’s a lot to unpack here but for starters, you made this post on a device that can log into Instagram. 

Do you carry a business insurance policy, and does it cover medical expenses, lost income, premises cleanup, that sort of thing? Because you probably have a biohazard cleaning bill in the future.  

As to the liability you personally, or your business has on the accident itself, that’s something for someone else to figure out. But super generically speaking, if you didn’t facilitate, encourage, coerce, or otherwise suggest the behavior that led to the accident, then it would be hard(er) to say it was your fault for it. 

Good luck on this.

As I said, despite the fact that you were not taken into custody, this is an arrest.  You have a pending charge of simple assault.  No one you try to have this conversation with is going to appreciate your splitting hairs on the "I wasn't AkShUaLlY arrested" bit, it's a distinction without difference.

Does your business insurance include general liability?

Did the stepfather adopt your father? That would be another way to change his last name legally. It would be part of the adoption decree.

I was never arrested.

And then I can just take the jetski?

I just want to stay that this incredibly predatory. The amount of rent you owed for that 15 days is likely less than $2000 they say you owe. It’s nonsense.

As far as the child care goes though, start asking the teachers there if any of them would be available to babysit your children. They are also looking for work so this could buy you some time as well. When the center that I worked at was facing closure our management team put together lists of staff who were willing to do this, they also did their best at helping the staff find new jobs. I’m sorry you are having to deal with this

1 **The Legality of Denying an Active ARD:** Under Maryland or Federal employment law, can a private/non-profit employer legally rescind a W2 offer based on an active, non-conviction pre-trial diversion? Does an active diversion essentially get treated with the same legal restrictions as an open, pending trial in the eyes of corporate risk management?

You're looking at this backward. They are choosing to not hire you because you were arrested for a crime (and despite the fact that you were not taken into custody, this is an arrest) regardless of whether or not you were convicted.  You can be denied employment for any reason that is not protected by law, and "I got arrest for assault" is not a protected class.

2 **The Disclosure Dilemma:** Since ARD is legally a non-conviction and I am not lying on applications, am I legally protected in staying silent until the background check runs? Or, because the case is technically "open" until the January 2027 expungement, is it safer to disclose the active diversion status upfront to avoid looking like I hid it?

This isn't a legal question.  You have not been convicted, so you are not lying on an application, but that is a private matter between you and the employer in any event and generally not a crime (unless it's a job that legally requires such a disclosure).  Some employers may work with you if you disclose it, others will thank you for taking away the cost of running a background check before they reject you.

3 **Blanket Policies vs. Individualized Assessments:** If a major institution's internal risk matrix automatically rejects any candidate with an active court docket—even after doing a performative "individualized assessment"—does that approach cross any legal lines regarding EEOC guidelines on arrest records?

The EEOC does not protect you from "I got arrested for assault."  

4 **Targeting the Next 7 Months:** Legally speaking, do smaller, private companies or non-government-affiliated industries have less rigid statutory background check requirements than massive healthcare systems or universities?

This is, again, not a legal question. From a practical standpoint, small companies without organic HR are probably less likely to run a background check, but these days they're cheap and ubiquitous, so it could go either way.

She needs to buy some large flower pots and put them by an inside window, not take over the park.

It definitely is! They know exactly what they are doing

I would be happy with a new engine.

I spoke to the creditor and he said he has a lien on the building that’s it, but from the tone, I don’t think he was getting payments.

You will need a bill of sale from the owner.

If they terminated your employment UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES should you sign anything that says you resigned! They cannot make you sign anything. If they are threatening to withhold pay, that is illegal and it should be reported to your states Labor board (or whatever they call it). It's a crime!

Alimony is a dying thing. Fight against that all the way. She can get a job.

Totally matters. DPS has jurisdiction over all the highways and ramps in AZ. It's considered state property not city.

She’s trying to bend you over and you’re willingly grabbing your ankles. Have some respect for yourself, the VA may help you with legal representation. Don’t agree to anything without talking things over with a lawyer, and stop just giving into her. You think it’s noble but it’s only hurting you. Instead of giving her the house freely, and taking on CC debt freely, accept the money rightfully owed to you and use that to plan fun memorable experiences with your kid.

Always consult with a lawyer and sometimes you can find one that’s free that you can get advice drone. Call your state bar association.

1.  Yes.  They can ask for this information after the first interview and can consider it.  

2.  You've identified one of the problems.  This isn't so much a legal question as a strategy question.  You're likely to find employers who treat it as dishonest not to disclose this.  

3.  In this case, with a healthcare institution and presumably PHI in play, this policy is probably legal.  

4.  That's not a legal question.  But healthcare systems and universities are probably not high-tolerance environments.

Paying the ticket is an admission of guilt (or at least acceptance of guilt). That is pretty much the end.

Quite frankly, while there \*may\* be possible avenues, what comes to mind will be expensive, take a lot of time and effort, and is not likely to even have a desirable outcome.

First, change your phone number and don’t give it to anyone that you think would convey it to him. 2, go to the police. You should be easily entitled to another restraining order. 3, don’t go to the door if he shows up. It seems to me that you keep letting him back in your life and so in a sense you’re asking for the kind of problems he’s creating. So, you need to make sure that he cannot be in your life.

No harm in writing to the judge and asking. 

But make your case something they can say yes to. 

Address it to the clerk of courts, asking that that matter be considered by the judge who gave you the original judgment. 

Your letter should include things you’ve done to become a better, more aware driver.  And “good behavior” didn’t be simply the absence of bad behavior. Have you found anything to help others? Have you performed any volunteer service? Have you done anything that benefits the community? Does the probation/suspension create a hardship that’s worth revisiting the terms? Like, is there a reason that the court should consider this, other than because you haven’t screwed up?

A well-written letter could get the suspension/probation reduced, or they may say thanks but no thanks. But you’ll get 0% of the things you don’t go after. So it certainly wouldn’t hurt to try.

You paid it and admitted guilt. There is no further action needed at this time. 

In the future get as many extensions as you can and once you cannot get anymore request a trial by written declaration.  It cause a lot more paperwork for officers and they usually dismiss them when this happens. You are welcome.

Even as an employee, she can be required to work more than 40 hours a week.  So not so much.

I would consult an attorney that deals property law and easement rights. Depending on things you might be given a check once a year.

Oh OK. I was thinking the land agent was just making stuff up to get you to sign

Crystal Judson Center center has resources for you in WA

Right, sorry. 

The original 4,400 offer included 1,000 for damages. 

The offer for the damages has now been expanded to 6,6000. 

So it should read 3,400 + 6,600.

That's rough -- it could be that they tried to contact anyone else on the lease -- all of them are jointly and severally liable for the debt. Unfortunately, you wound up being the one that the collection agency found. As much as it sucks, the settlement angle is probably your best (and quickest) bet. 😞

The question I asked was about protecting her from being forced to work over 40 hours a week, so it is the question I asked.

4 people on the lease. 

3 people moved out od the country. No addresses or phone numbers.

I stayed.  No one tried to contact me.  No phone calls or emails.

Thank you.  I appreciate your time.  

I’ll see if I can reach a settlement with collections

She says this because I was gone all the time deployed , she is the main caregiver due to working at his school and having all appts set up.

You ***were*** unavailable.  That is no longer the case.  Your children are not estranged from you.  Ohio's standard for custody is "in the best interests of the child" and while it is not presumptive as it is in some other states, generally recognizes that shared custody is what is in said best interest.

My lawyer didnt want to get into the details of support during my paid intake conversation. 

This is reasonable.  It's an intake.  You're at step 1 but you're focused on step 25.  Breathe.

She said her lawyer said that she would get the 1.2k alimony and custody .

Never take legal advice from your opponent.  And understand that she ***is*** your opponent, here.  You cannot operate as if this is the woman you love and wanted to spend your life with, because that ship has sailed.  As hard as this is to hear, she is no longer the person you love.  Attempting to treat her that way will only be deleterious to your own situation.  

Expect to be manipulated.  Expect false reconciliations, if only you'll bend just this little bit. Expect appeals to "for the good of our child" which are really "for her good."

NAL - But I would keep that money set aside, do not spend it. They could recognize the issue and have it withdrawn, if you spend it this may lead you to overdraft. 

If you can put it in a savings account where it grows interest for you that doesn’t hurt.

6,600+4,400 is 11000 not 10000, so that makes no sense

Awee OP, I’m sorry! My bff is a divorce attorney-but not licensed in Ohio! She does MANY Military divorces in Jacksonville, NC. Theres gotta be one that helps military there.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Difficult to Read**

Your comment has been removed as it is difficult to read.  It is either far too long, incoherent, or it has been improperly formatted for use on Reddit.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to be more concise and readable.  This includes the  proper use of Reddit markup tags, paragraphs and sentences, as well as proper spelling and coherent thoughts.  **Do not make a second post.**  Please review the following rules before participating further:

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

During a colonoscopy there are a number of clinically relevant questions regarding genitalia, specifically around surgical history, pregnancy history, prostate history, etc. What specifically were the questions he was asking?

Always get a lawyer. Don’t be the nice guy, now is not the time to be generous based on emotion.  In the end you are starting a life without your soon to be ex-wife and you need to protect your future self.  

She is already making demands, don’t feel pressured by that.  Try and stay objective and listen to your lawyer.

I had a TRA “reminder” once too, and somehow the signed copy vanished until HR wanted $2,800.

It will greatly hurt your case because you're either going to (1) admit on the record that you're guilty of the crime you're pleaing to or (2) admit that the government has enough evidence that you could be convicted of the crime. Both of those would seem to be in contravention of a malicious prosecution claim.

We were 4 people on the lease.   My parents and sister moved out of the country. No addresses or phone numbers were left for them. However, they kept their emails.

I stayed in the country.  I do not have an email , or phone call from the apartments or collections. 

There was a phone call last year from the apartment, telling my dad about the fee after they left to another country.  My dad sent them the document explaining the issue.   They never called back again and my parents assumed it was settled.

I had no idea of this issue. My parents kept me in the dark.

I’m just now finding out I have a rental collections on my credit

We could tell lol. Im glad youre okay. Please try to get meds.

Do not sign that. Resignation means you forfeit unemployment. You are not legally required to sign a darn thing- screw their “exit paperwork” give them back any company property and that’s it.

Yes, convicted in both.  The two courts may have agreed to concurrency of sentence, or he may be required to serve sentence in the second county after completion of sentence in the first.

Please get a lawyer. I had to put my atty fees on a credit card. My ex was so irate that I dared divorce him, he wanted both cars, the house, full custody of kids (even tho he was an alcoholic) plus me to have all our cc debt. One person does not get to decide how things will be split. I know it sucks to pay for a lawyer, but it will be worth it in the long run. 

BTW - I got my car, we sold house - I got half, I got primary custody, and he had to pay half the cc debt. Clearly he didn’t get what he wanted, but it was a fair settlement.

They're pulling people over for 34 in a 30 now? That's not even 5 over.....also, really hate when they tailgate you, you know they're just looking for a reason.

What can I do about this situation?

You can report it to the police.

Can I go back to the police as he has a history of harassing me?

Yes.

Is this blackmail?

Yes.

Will getting another restraining order help?

It can help with fast tracking charges if he continues to harass you.

He plans to disclose this information on the weekend of my sister’s wedding, which is this weekend. What can I do?

From a practical standpoint, even if he ends up getting arrested for the harrasment and blackmail, he can still divulge all of this to your family. You need to proceed with that in mind.

Thank you for your response. My company is basically a start up, we don’t have a HR department and there is no handbook or policy regarding this. I email the owners and asked to work the rest of the month.

Doesn't help that they switched ownership groups in the last few months and have had nothing but 1 star reviews since the change. There's nothing in the lease about promotions, but we were granted 2-weeks off back in April, with a written promise (not contractual) to revisit this come June. 

It's moreso the language of the concession that upsets me because it doesn't state anything about it being locked to certain units. It's a blanket statement of 8-weeks free.

NAL.  The first place you should start is calling the HR department of your previous employer and ask them about it.

Alimony? Not a chance to in hell.

I hear ya, I hear ya 😭 He’s just a rich legal guy who turned my life upside down.

I’ll take another suggestion and file a bar complaint 🤷🏻‍♀️ I’ll make that my “and take that!” moment of redemption. Thanks for your help

$961 for full time work is less than Virginia’s minimum wage of $1021.60 ($12.77/hr as of 1Jan26. 

Go find a new job immediately.

There can most definitely be court involvement even if the parents are not yet divorced 🤔

First, find a new job immediately. Even if they make things right, it would seem the relationship is already soured and there are probably deeper issues about the workplace.

Next, contact your state’s labor department to file a complaint. Without seeing your offer letter, you need to make sure it states your compensation clearly as either $50000/yr salary or equivalent in hourly pay. This will establish whether the employer is committing wage theft. Note that filing a complaint will put the employer on notice so be sure you have your exit options ready.

Finally, you will want to engage with an employment/labor law attorney. Regardless of the outcome from the labor department, this is probably a case where you will want to get compensation for misrepresentation, back wages, and damages for the conditions. You should be able to find a reputable attorney through your state’s bar referral service.

There's no specific language along the lines of "we'll apply whatever the June special is," but I've been in talks with the property manager for the past couple months about general questions and she's reassured me that she'd reach out to her regional manager/ownership group once June came around to have that special applied. They did grant me 2-weeks free back in April, which I am grateful for, but that's a big difference when others signed for 8-weeks free.

The thing that makes me most upset is that the language on the special is deceptive and has no mention that the special is only applicable to single-family units. I brought this up to them that they need to change it because it's misleading, so I feel like they should own up to their mistake. Understanding though that that's the ethical thing to do vs. what they're legally obligated to do

I mean, noncustodial parent can pick the kids up and take them on the bus, a train, an airplane. You don't need a personal vehicle to create a nightmare situation. 

A TCPO is the valid way to go here. It protects custodial parent from looking unreasonable in withholding access to children in the future custody battle. It's free to file and the court will usually notify you of the grant or denial within one day if not the same day it is filed.

I do not practice law in Texas and am not giving you legal advice, but it sounds fairly simple.

If you have a written contract specifying the terms of how your commissions are earned and paid out, that should control whether or not you are owed that money. Contract law is generally the same in all states, and there are also federal laws which cover such matters. Your employer cannot just create "unwritten rules" out of thin air. $4,400 probably isn't enough for you to hire a lawyer, so you would just go to small claims court (although there could be additional penalties, bad-faith triple damages statutes, etc. after which it COULD be worthwhile to hire a lawyer and sue your employer in regular court).

If these commissions are solely based on "unwritten rules" and are NOT part of the compensation specified in your employment contract, then you might in fact be out of luck, although if you can demonstrate that there was a standard practice by which you had been paid commissions before, you might still prevail in court.

The leasing office stated since it a private lease through a private landlord that the landlord may be held liable if anything legal wise happens and not the apartment complex themselves.

You may have prevented a tragedy.

This is a separate piece of property several miles from where he lives, so there's no danger to his home, thankfully. 

The plot he owns where they're seeking the easement is about 12 acres. 

I guess he thought 10k seemed fair because they're only asking for 0.6 acres, and land in the area goes for about 7k/acre. 

So he's looking at it from the perspective of, if he were selling this 0.6 acres to a buyer, they're already overpaying for it. 

But that's not really the situation here, so I understand why that kind of valuation might not make sense. 

I'll push him to talk to an attorney, thank you. One more question: 

Would the fact that he's already made a verbal agreement for 10k impact an attorney's ability to negotiate?

Yes it would instead of termination you are signing that you resigned that means you quit

landlord can't just text you "what he came up with" without actual receipts or estimates - that's not how security deposits work in most states and you got video evidence of clean apartment too

So technically since it was on the off ramp, they said it was not under Tempe jurisdiction. They sent DPS. Does this matter? Can I call them for a report?

The signed lease governs, not a form from the complex with a box checked saying that you had a move-out date approved. You can have a date approved and still owe them compensation under the terms of the lease.

That being said, how is this the first time you are being made aware of a collections action from a debt a year ago? Did they not have a forwarding address or your phone number?

Have you asked the leasing office about them?

I’m worried if I get them sent to jail or whatever they’d really be out to get me. I didn’t even really do anything to get these people pissed at me so I figure like this could just be resolved if I leave it? Maybe I’m an idiot I just wouldn’t want to cause more issues

So there's no court involvement.

Understood, they had their car impounded from the DUI though, as they never registered their vehicle, renewed their drivers license, or got insurance. Frankly I'm amazed that through all of this they just have to pay a few hundred on a ticket so far.

I meant that I don't know if New York employs private attorneys to take public defender appointments, but my state does

It had our company name, I removed it per the rules, I will edit the post to include that detail, my apologies

Property managers love pulling this stuff when they think they can get away with it. The fair housing angle they're throwing around doesn't really apply here unless they're discriminating based on protected classes - which doesn't sound like what's happening.

  
If the current promotion doesn't explicitly restrict it to certain unit types in the advertising, they're probably just trying to avoid honoring it because your lease was already signed. You might want to document everything - the original ads from April, current promotion language, all your communications with them. Could be worth having a lawyer look at your lease terms too, sometimes there's language about promotional offers that could work in your favor.

Looks like someone found mass litigation template and is fishing for quick settlement - the detailed legalese paired with missing company name brackets screams copy paste job across multiple targets

we have a pretty clear schedule that doesn’t necessarily require communication, however, because he is high conflict, i am trying to find a mediator or just any sort of advice on how to move forward so i can heal.

Sorry I don’t understand much about the law, what do you mean by jurisdiction and how do you know which one u are under, is it just the court u are going to?

From a strict contract point of view, you're likely liable.  There's nothing in that checked box that waives the late fee associated with the 15-day gap in notice. There's also nothing in turning in the keys or ending the lease that would automatically waive the fee.

My real question here would be why they didn't invoice you for the fee at any time, but instead sent it straight to collections without notice.  This, of course, assumes that you provided them with contact information after you moved out.

It's **possible** that you could argue this in small claims -- that you are not liable for any of the added fees for collections because you were never notified of the debt.

It's also **possible** that you could negotiate with the collection agency to just pay the original amount or some portion of the amount they are claiming in order to satisfy the debt.

But based on how you describe the contract and the options they had when you left, I doubt any court is going to find that you didn't incur the $2,000 late notice fee in the first place.

What exactly does it say on the lease that you signed? It doesn’t matter what specials they’re advertising to future residents after you’ve already signed the lease.

BUT with no order in place, if non custodial parent gets access to the children, whether by picking them up at school or camp or daycare or wherever, non custodial parent has the same rights as the custodial parent and can similarly refuse to turn the children back over if they get access to them.

I'm not sure where you're located, but if you're in the US, I'm sure your state's labor board would love to hear from you. Especially if HR put this in writing.

The parents are still married, per the post.

This is why you’re unemployed

This is terrible advice.  OP's STBXW already has representation, is seeking a custody arrangement highly disadvantageous to OP both financially and emotionally, and also pursuing alimony.  OP's divorce is ***going*** to be contested, and attempting to DIY his part of it is a recipe for disaster.

They should have contacted their family law attorney immediately upon the DUI to start the process of Supervised Visits Only. The court can require drug tests prior to visits to make sure the children aren't around someone that's high, for their safety.

“The agent said he wasn’t authorized to go that high” has to be the oldest trick in the book. Agree, this needs a lawyer who has experience with land easements.

I would send them a message that you’re going to drop off the keys at the closer location at x date and time unless they’d like to send someone from the further location to pick them up from you.

Thankfully I've got dozens of witnesses who have not just heard it in person, but have received texts and phone calls about me, from her, throughout the last 10 months. And I'm not going to go back to the park till I have a protective order. My dogs love it there, but I can't risk having any further interaction with her that I can reasonably avoid myself. It's really sad, and I still can't believe it's happening 😞

NAL.

  
From your description, it sounds like your employer has met its legal obligations to engage in an interactive process, and they are entitled to offer "effective alternatives" to what you proposed. Two months would not generally be considered an excessive delay. If you want to appeal/file another request, you should be specific about why the proposed alternative is not effective, with supporting medical documentation if possible. That said, the employer is under no obligation to adopt the recommendations of your medical provider. 

In general, when an employer is following the ADA process in reasonably good faith, a successful EEOC action or lawsuit on denial of WFH as an ADA accommodation is unlikely to succeed.

Yes you said that already. However, the aunt and mom may have arranged to be joint owners with rights of survivorship once they were the two owners.

Sorry I don’t know anything about the law, how do you determine which jurisdiction you are under?

How will you be able to maintain a coparenting schedule (which I assume is court ordered) if you cut all contact with him?

Any chance you could paste what yours says? You can DM me a screenshot(s) if that’s easier

Call DCFS and make a report about the parent's drug use. Then file for a temporary child protective order outlining the safety concerns with the other parent and the potential for harm, abuse, etc. Use of illegal drugs in front of children and having illegal drugs in the presence of a child is considered to be child abuse in the State of Utah. 

Custodial parent can deny, but if parents are still married and there are no orders, then both parents have equal access and rights to the children. So if non custodial parent picks up the kids at school or camp or whatever, the police generally won't make non custodial parent return the children if non custodial parent refuses to turn the children back over.

If that's the case I would argue your flag is not a sign.

If you resign, you don't get unemployment. They're trying to screw you over. Don't sign the paper. Give them the keys though.

Moving states only works when the other spouse is both highly invested in saving the marriage and ***extremely*** stupid.  It would not help OP and would make things much, much worse for him.

I’m doing better, I’m really out of it, I’m struggling with like auditory hallucinations, but he’s now playing “nice” with me. He’s not home, I’ve just been applying for jobs all day, over 50 so far. I’ve been dealing with his threats and schizophrenia most of my life so I’m at least able to be semi-aware when it’s not severe enough. Thank you for asking, I apologize for worrying anyone, I wrote this while scared and in active crisis.

This is helpful, thanks!

Thank goodness, that's a relief for us to hear!  
I appreciate you taking the time to respond

Nope, not included in the definitions section, I thought of that too. Yea, going to court isn’t in the cards for all of the reasons you describe. Womp womp

You must *qualify* for a public defender.  Like all attorneys, there can be a variety of experience and skill level but no: public defenders do *not* “favor the court’s side”.  The idea that attorneys conspire with opposing counsel or the judiciary is television drama, not real life.  And it may be that “the first deal” is the best deal. 

I don’t do criminal but, in some areas, it is very common for private attorneys to take appointments as a public defender.  Anecdotally, the best criminal defense attorneys I know are either current full-time PDs or private attorneys who worked for many years as PDs.

Supply chain problems could find an engine unavailable. They may offer a used one if available. Worst case would be they claim a loss against their insurance and pay the value of the vehicle.

Yup I checked that to be sure

Absolutely, you don’t get unemployment if you quit your job so you shouldn’t sign anything

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

My god, you need a lawyer. Do you realize how much bargaining leverage you may have if you are the sole parcel that refuses to give them a wider easement? This could potentially be six figures or more. Don't be the huckleberry farmer getting screwed by the city boys in suits. For all you know, your neighbors nearby have negotiated much higher payouts that they aren't telling you about b/c the gas company will only pay it with an NDA precisely so people like you don't find out. 

Aside from leveraging a better deal, a lawyer could help with modifying some of the language in those agreements which, I'll take a wild guess, would right now, as-written, screw you over completely unfairly in the event that they cause damage to your property, whether during construction, or years/decades later. Do you want to be 50 years older, telling your kids and grandkids how your dad's house is worthless because dad used reddit as a lawyer?

If there's no custody/visitation order, you're under no legal obligation to allow the child or children to go with him.

It's not like if you can afford a lawyer you can still choose to have a public defender. They're provided to those who are found to be indigent. 

That aside, the stereotypes are just that: stereotypes. For one, people who take these cases are doing it out of a desire to help people, not to make a quick buck. For another, I'm not entirely sure if your jurisdiction does this, but in mine private lawyers frequently take public defender appointments, so you may end up with a private lawyer for the cost of a public defender. So your concerns may be misplaced here.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Medical Malpractice**

Medical malpractice is very fact specific and it is unfortunately beyond the scope of this subreddit.  We recommended you speak with a medical malpractice attorney; your local or state bar referral service may be able to refer you to one. They typically work on contingency, meaning there is little up front cost to you. Similarly, consultations are often free. It wouldn't hurt to meet with one, have them look over your records, and go from there. You should be aware that many states have very short statutes of limitation for medical malpractice, so delaying contacting an attorney could be detrimental or fatal to your case.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Good catch.  He will want to show June 1 as when they notified him.

So if I did refuse to sign it, should I go all the way up the the other location on Friday (which is twice as far as I previously went to drop the keys off) or should I let them know I can just drop the keys off to the closer location with a picture of them and call it a day?

Call CPS along with her and offer to be a an emergency foster "resource" parent for the other two kids. Don't just take them in because then you'll have no legal recourse with doctors, schools, etc. You would need to go through a process of inspection and they will generally fast track this so children can be with someone they know. You'll receive resources from the State such as food stamps, funds to help with their daycare, etc. 

CPS wants kids to be safe and cared for. If they determine you can do that you'll generally be able to have them placed with you.

No orders or anything, still married  
Recently the drug abuse got so bad that they were kicked out, but are now trying to get the kids for the weekend unsupervised and no one thinks its safe to do so as they are known to be physically and emotionally abusive.

They located in the living room but there a possibility there may be more

I still don't hear the "possible legal malpractice."

Get everything in writing from those workers if you can. NJ has strong consumer fraud laws for stuff like this.

Send a certified letter to the gym demanding cancellation based on misrepresentation. Reference the NJ Consumer Fraud Act specifically.

Contact the NJ Division of Consumer Affairs and file a complaint. They take this stuff pretty seriously.

Small claims court could work for the amount you paid. Judges don't like when gyms lie to get people to sign.

A tool like Leadmatically can help find other people dealing with similar gym issues, but that's for later. Focus on your case first.

Good luck. Don't let them push you around.

A public defender is much better than no representation, assuming you qualify for one. They are perfectly capable attorneys but often overworked because they tend to have enormous caseloads. They do not favor the court's side- they work for the client.

Show up and ask if you can be appointed counsel and see if you're eligible.

Is there a custody/visitation order in place?

Document everything. All of the missed visits, communications with mom, etc. 

Generally the goal is to get people off of supervised visitation, not to create more restrictions and burdens for visitation. I assume dad has been working on the things that necessitated supervised visits and has documentation regarding his progress and professionals (doctors, therapists, sponsors, parole/probation officers) in his corner willing to vouch that he has been meeting milestones and requirements. 

Professionally supervised visitation is usually expensive. I've seen courts make the supervised parent pay it, and I've seen courts that have required parents to split the fee either in half or proportional to income. It honestly just depends.

Toyota master for over 20 years, never experienced that. These inspections are just another form of a tax. My state has never had them, hopefully never will. I would bet our accident rates are no worse than yours. I applaud your boss, and boo you 😉

Remember that unless they’ve personally heard her speak threateningly to you or she’s spoken to them personally I think that would be hearsay. If you need someone to back you up regarding her keep this in mind. 
   Myself, if I was able to have someone with me at the park that’s what I’d do. If not & she’s there I would leave & not risk escalation. If someone is with you & she starts assaulting you, have them call 911. Press charges against her. Quickest way to get a restraining order if there’s police record of any incidents.

Most plans only include basic dental and some major services.  Most exclude sensation dentistry and most dentists that do that work are out of network with the hospitals.

Where are the cameras located and aiming? Does her lease say anything about cameras? 

Assuming they aren't recording audio and are in common areas, that may be legal but your mother-in-law can decide if she uncomfortable living there long-term.

There is a lot of nuance in AZ about political signage and flags, AZ does have a state pre-emption law about certain kinds of signage that HOAs cannot outright ban, but just regulate size and quantity. Im not going to go through all of this but the specific law governing this seems to be.  

I doubt the pride flag is explicitly stated but there are a decent amount of exceptions and some grey areas so take a look.

If I understand the situation correctly, you worked 4 games before everything was completed for your onboarding (at manager/HR's description). You are absolutely owned for those games, and it sounds like they are working on that.

Then they said they would use you for the next 4 games, but you did not actual work those games because of all issues with the onboarding.

You have no legal ground to stand on to demand payment from a company for hours you didn't work. Companies are not obligated to provide you work. Even if they said they planned on using you for these days/shows, there is no legal obligation to pay you if the work never happened.

Tbh a worn balljoint should stop you from being able to drive. I've seen many balljoints completely seperate while customers were driving. Last month we had a truck towed in for the balljoint popping out, guys inspection was due that same month go figure

It might be. From a legal standpoint, there is really nothing you can do. A highly motivated lawyer might be able to pursue emotional distress claims, but only if you actually find and can contact the person behind these posts. The authorities will not get involved unless these posts threaten physical violence against you or your family. My best advice is to ignore these profiles and report them to IG. Not what you wanted to hear, sorry.

How we’d do it as well.  He’s advising you to go to the magistrates office to seek the warrants yourself.  Once you do that they will arrest him and serve the warrants.  NC is pretty unique in this aspect, most states a regular person can’t just walk into a magistrate’s office and take out warrants.

He was in a hurry, shit happens🤷🏼‍♀️

Are you sure about that? It's my understand from Rose v. Rose that states can order payments be made from VA disability. The case dealt with child support, but some argue it applies to alimony as well.

You can probably refuse payment. Also if you’re just playing small venues, there’s usually no paper trail or receipts left…

Yes it would. There is no other reason to ask for that other than to deny you unemployment.

It's my understanding that a lot of courts treat VA compensation the same way as they do retirement benefits because you waive either a portion or all of your retirement in order to get the VA compensation. I believe per the U.S. code that she along with your child is entitled to a portion to the benefits already. I have cursory knowlege of military benefits when it comes to family law but I know enough to know it's a bit different from a normal civilian disability and/or retirement that it needs to be handled a bit differently in court.

Depending on the age of the kids, as soon as they start school in the fall and the school finds out they are living in their car, CPS will be called. Sooner or later a mandated reporter will notice them living in the car and call CPS. 

CPS is going to be involved whether you call or not. Better sooner rather than later. A lot of terrible things can happen to homeless kids. (Yes, a lot of terrible things can happen in foster care also, but better foster care than the streets.)

You care about your ex, but in this case, the kids are more important. In this case, take care of your kid and get CPS involved to protect the others. Hopefully they can get the bio family to step up.

NAL. That's normal wear and tear. In California, there's a penalty where if a LL withholds a security deposit in bad faith, you can recover double the amount of the deposit. I would research if there is a similar (or other) penalty for landlord's holding your deposit in bad faith in Florida. If so, I would write them an email or letter citing that, and also citing some sources showing that a 15 yo carpet has no value after depreciation, and if they maintain their position you will sue them seeking the most you can (i.e., your whole deposit plus any penalties available under FL law).

Ah ok. Unfortunately, when I looked it up, there’s a chance the debtor might not have to pay it even if it is taxable based on his living conditions. So I probably won’t go that route

But this time she is able to be charged with a crime. And considering that she has breached privacy and impersonated you, that's grounds for a restraining order anywhere. 

Most importantly, if she's willing to do this to you than she's willing to do similar things to others. That's all the more reason to press charges. 

And not doing so doesn't guarantee that she will back off, quite the contrary. The police said that she's a nuisance, But that this is the first time they can do something about it. Obviously she's gotten bolder throughout her life and again that's all the more reason to stop her. 

By dismissing crime, you are enabling victims.

Interesting. I’ll have to check that out

On my side:  
I was incredibly cooperative & kind to the officers the entire time   
I immediately returned the bracelet   

None of that is even remotely on your side. 

I’d already bought & paid for (I have receipts) multiple things on the boardwalk already that day  
I have absolutely no prior record

That is not relevant. 

Request an attorney, you cannot figure this out on your own.

If you can put your own information in a blank space on the existing court forms, you do not need an attorney. 

If you can carefully read instructions and forms, you can file your own paperwork with simply the court's filing fees. You might have to add a service fee in there too depending on whether personal service is required. 

She can threaten you and have her own attorney, but at the end of the day the courts will treat you the same with or without an attorney, and follow Ohio statutes.  

.

Yeah I told him we need to look into alternatives on our end also. Just in case. Told him he may need to look into an attorney also. Unfortunately the ex wife is like 4hrs away in different county so its rough all around.

Noooo, I filed that alone and independently. 

I hired him to simply help prevent my landlord from intruding inside my home and harassing us… that’s it. I just wanted to live there in peace for the duration of my lease. This escalated to such an insane level within 10 days. I was originally just trying to do the right thing to stop the behavior, which I thought was to hire a lawyer 😅 

Once the eviction was final, I realized I was royally and legally screwed just before the school year and that this situation had been an unexpected nightmare. I decided to file with PHRC on my own after some research to try and hold somebody accountable… then the determination was that because of lack of protected class language used in the cease and desist, I didn’t engage in a protected activity after all like I thought… therefore I wasn’t protected from a retaliatory eviction.

Therefore…. Just screwed 😂

You need to keep calling. There's thousands of lawyers in your state. You don't need a local one, just one in-state.

I’m extremely happy I live at a state where a worn ball joint doesn’t stop me from being able to drive

NAL. Is the term "Sign" defined anywhere in the CC&Rs or other governing documents? The way I see it, the only difference between a sign and a flag is the material, and that flags can bend/wave because they're fabric. Fixing a flag on all corners to a wall, however, really is a lot like a sign. 

Unless "Sign" is defined in the CC&Rs or other governing documents, *and* the definition clearly would not include flags, you'll probably get fined for it. If so, the people you'd have to try to appeal to are the same people who fined you, so unlikely to do so. If there's any grey area / room for interpretation, and they fine you for it, then the only thing you could do is go to court and argue to a judge that a flag doesn't qualify as a "sign" to try to overturn their tiny fine. To get a judge to declare that the rules, as written, do not prevent flags, then you'd have to file in civil court (not small claims) and it would be a $30-$150k legal battle. If you went to small claims, you can't get a judge to "declare" that a flag doesn't qualify as a sign, but you might be able to get them to say that the CC&Rs penalize signs, not flags, and that thus your one particular fine was improper. Either way, the HOA's board of directors could just vote to amend the governing documents to ban most flags too in the meanwhile. 

There are protections to allow flying flags, but to my knowledge that's just as to the U.S. national flag (and perhaps state or local govt. flags, but I'm not sure on that.)

Mine has separate entries for flags and signs.

I don’t know what state you’re in, but if you’re in a state that has community property, she goes with what she came into the marriage with and you go with what you came into the marriage with and then the rest of it is split 50-50. Now I’m a veteran. Also she is not entitled to any of your untaxed VA money. I’m also 100%. Now the other thing you should be looking at is an attorney with the VA. The VA can very often guide you to a lawyer who will do it pro bono. Also, Check with either your American Legion or your VFW. They can also guide you.

This kind of dispute/usage/boundary question is 100% handled by the cemetery.  

They may offer you solutions, or may remove the pole if it wasn’t approved or violating another plot.

Look up the laws for something like this.  You don’t own the carpet, so it’s the owners FULL RESPONSIBILITY.

Yup I’ve tried that community already, unfortunately no luck!

Not an attorney. Sign and say nothing as the advice here Obviously you are not resigning. You can make a phone video of your handing over the keys as proof. And go ahead and file for unemployment now. Reach out to MD Department of Labor and advise them your ex-employer is threatening to withhold your final paycheck.

So… hence the question of whether he left the car unlocked? Sure he implies he did but he never states it at any point and part of the point of the question is incredulity about how someone both leaves their wallet in the car *and* leaves the car unlocked 

Totally pointless comment chain

It's your license on the line.  Would you rather not work there or not work anywhere?

We tried to, but we can't find one that's willing to go against the city.

Well it’s the fact that she’s coming after the people who live in her old home which is just us and we didn’t want her to escalate since she knows where we live obviously

Maybe that's just it;an unfortunate outcome that I will have to pay some one else to fix. I just dont see why it took me to suggest the surgery after countless xrays showing there hadnt been improvement since day 1. They just kept tacking on more months til I said something

Also take A high resolution photo of it with your phone

I can't speak to some other state.  But CA isn't going to terminate his rights, voluntarily or not.  He should be paying child support.  A child has the legal right to support from both parents.

VA disability is protected in cases of divorce as it's not the same as retirement.

You need to hire a lawyer, yesterday.

In general if neither party shows up the case test continued.  Sometimes dismissed.

Here in California we go to the labor board my company messed with me and fired me and didn’t get my pay right I got my pay plus penalty’s so I walked away with over 7k

Just the specific day of the month, location, te window and who is to supervise. She tried to withhold his daughter once I started coming but the court order doesn't say anything about bringing others so she lost that battle. She has changed the time frame though against the order and missed visits. Hes done everything asked of the order even gone with her changes I've just told him to document everything.

He has another child in another state that he had to give up parental rights for? Although maybe he did it voluntarily, I'm not sure. He wasn't married to that child's mother. I was hoping I'd be able to have a similar situation with no contact, but maybe that's not possible.

I have some hope that he wouldn't contest to try to get custody anyways.

"Just uproot your entire life!" isn't legal advice, nor is it remotely helpful.

There's never any reason not to consult an attorney.  

I don' hear the part of your story where you describe some basis for thinking this was an error as opposed to an unfortunate outcome within the range of ordinary outcomes in this procedure.

What was it evidence of? Was it used in a shooting or murder? I work an impound and that's the only reason we have to hold the vehicle for investigation. Usually a death is involved. At that point we aren't allowed to touch the car in impound, so rolling up windows and what not are out of the question for us but PD can do it themselves. Just asking for context.

As an adult you have a lot more power to leave than you would have had as a minor. A temporary hold due to suicide risk is only for a few days - after that there are legal loopholes they have to jump through if they want to force you to stay when you’d like to leave and you have the right to contest any attempts they make to say you lack the ability to make the decision to leave.

It's not military retirement,  its VA compensation /disability.  Idk if that makes a difference at all

Repost! 

*Then* what happened? 👀

I understand what you’re saying. I don’t like it! But I hear you.

The first malpractice firm said that it was very hard to be a lawyer, because she talks to many people they wish they could help, but they really can’t 🫤

You don't have to sign anything to be laid off or fired. Don't sign anything for free and consult a lawyer amd document everything.

Email - "I understand that I am being asked to sign this form without having a chance to review it..."

If you resign you cannot collect unemployment and if they lay you off you can. Sign nothing!

I was going to suggest this.  Video yourself turning in the keys.

You’re wife does not get to make any of these decisions . She can ask for what she wants and you do the same. The judge will decide. Go to legal aid and get a lawyer. It will cost less long term to have representation

If the judge thinks visitation still needs to be supervised, your boyfriend will need to come up with an alternate plan. Because the court can’t force the ex-wife’s friend supervise visitation, and if the only other option presented is this visitation center 2 hours away, then that’s going to be what they pick. Whether or not he has to pay those costs could depend on why visitation needs to be supervised (e.g., if the judge feels his ex-wife shouldn’t have to bear the costs of his fuck ups/if she already has in other ways).

It’s your husband’s ex

I don't think there's any question you overplayed.  You chased a case that had no real value and you got the expected outcome.  

You can't sue a lawyer because he got nothing from a case worth nothing.

Call and give them the workers comp billing information.

Ughhhh. Thank you for reading

The VA can absolutely help you. Please contact them. Do not give in to her without getting a lawyer!

If she has a lawyer, you need one too. I understand affording one is an issue but there a plenty of divorce lawyers that work with clients on payment plans. You need to continue looking for one.

No alimony. Move to a state that prohibits. Then pay 800 child support

If he doesn't have money to travel here for visitations, would I be responsible for paying for it? 

No.

When is a child considered old enough to travel? 

Accompanied by an adult?  Probably 6-12 months.  Unaccompanied?  Probably 12-13.

Contact the DA’s office and ask to be directed to a victim advocate or prosecutor assigned to the case about restitution. Every jurisdiction does things a little differently, but if you call the DA they’ll know who you need to talk to. Generally a crime victim is given a form to fill out to help the state determine how much restitution to ask for from the defendant. In many places, a defendant’s bail money is returned only after the victim’s restitution amount is deducted. But you’ll only get restitution if the defendant pleads or is found guilty. It may take quite a while.

Interesting, I did not know that. Damn people are shady!

Should he have used protected class language in the cease and desist from the start, knowing the behavior we were subjected to as protected class people? That she may retaliate and protect us from it?

Even if reasonable minds could differ on that point, that isn't malpractice.  Malpractice is such a deviation from the standard of care that no reasonable attorney would ever make that choice.  Encouraging your client to confess to murder on the witness stand is malpractice.  Choosing what goes in a C&D letter hardly ever is, and it isn't here.  Given what you say about your landlord, it's pure speculation that adding "protected class language" (everyone is in multiple protected classes, btw) would have changed her behavior.

Contact the VA about recommendations for lawyers able to help. Don't her lawyers advice. Do this properly because there a lot of resources out there for you. It can be hard to find hence why I said call them and ask about available resources. Take a breath then focus.

If he doesn't have money to travel here for visitations, would I be responsible for paying for it? When is a child considered old enough to travel? I hate the idea of my baby having to go there to spend time with him when he isn't attentive to the child.

Xfinity, "up to" 1 Gbps

Record yourself turning them in.

You may also have a potential personal injury lawsuit.  It depends on the injuries and the defendant(s).  No attorney is going to take a contingent case for minor injuries or where there is no source of money to pay for damages.

Get a new lawyer. Fight for your right

do you really think that OP can rent a lambo and get the other insurance to pay for it?! OP would get stuck paying the extra out of pocket so congrats, you just caused OP financial harm. Are you sure that you should be giving legal advice?

I'm thinking about filing for divorce in California. We have a newborn baby that I would want to retain full custody of, and ideally, just have his parental rights removed so I don't have to deal with him over our son ever again.

Not going to happen.  You may or may not get full custody (almost certainly not if he contests it), but the court will not terminate parental rights in this situation.  Custody and parental rights are two different things.

I don't know what grounds for custody he would have when he's not in California.

He doesn't need "grounds."  He's the parent.  He can request regular remote visits once the child is a certain age and in-person visits in California until the child is old enough to travel.  

He doesn't contribute financially to our household or the baby.

You can request child support. 

Any advice or things I should consider are greatly appreciated!

A lawyer handling this for you is something you should consider.

Sometimes restitution is part of sentencing, but that requires a conviction. Restitution is when the perpetrator pays money to the victim to pay for their damages. 

Check to see if your county has a victim advocy office. It's often at least loosely connected to the prosecutor's office.

The court likely isn't going to modify the material terms of your agreement much since that's something you two voluntarily entered into but they could make some perimeters to help facilitate the spirit of the order. For example, the equity portion where she's entitled to a portion of it even though you're still paying the mortgage and she's still living there. The court could order a definitive date from which she can no longer get any equity benefits from your payments. They can also add "punishments" for not completing things by a certain time.

1099-c is for forgiven debt, being a landlord has nothing to do with it.

I didn’t think much of anything until I lost my PHRC claim… I got really upset when it states that his wording of the cease and desist prevented me from protections I should have had. But idk

CPS worker here, although not in your state.   

Did the divorce decree specify visitation terms?   If not, sending gas money seems like a fair compromise.  

Word from experience here - send the funds in a manner that YOU can document such as Venmo.  Personally, I'd drive the full distance myself just to reduce the number of excuses Mom can fish out of her toolbox.  

Sadly, the game Mom's playing isn't a level playing field  and it's heavily tilted in the custodial parent's favor.  Having been involved in several hundred similar cases over the years, I can tell you that it's only going to get worse.  Always take the high road in dealing with Mom, don't try engaging in the same game as retaliation, and start saving now for a good family law attorney.

I didn’t really know what to expect. I’ve never been in a legal issue or needed a lawyer so I was concerned because I was paying him a lot, time was ticking, and I was scared… but I truly was very kind about it. I didn’t accuse, just inquired… I wanted to address what seemed off to me, I didn’t intend to offend him and have him fire me on the spot for it.

I called around after that and no one would help me at this point with a month left of the eviction. I make too much for any legal assistance programs.

Should he have used protected class language in the cease and desist from the start, knowing the behavior we were subjected to as protected class people? That she may retaliate and protect us from it? 

At this point, that’s what triggered me to review everything. I didn’t expect to lose the retaliatory eviction because it was one week after seeking help? I had no lease violations, debts, or complaints.

should i file a complaint with california’s consumer compliance instead?

Do not buy real estate with someone you’re not married.

“ if you want me off the deed, you need to take me off the mortgage as well.  I will not be on the mortgage without being on the deed.”

Helpful. Would the court consider modification of terms, such that she pays her half of the mortgage and other operating expenses?

I’m surprised that no one has recommended for OP to copywrite the code. 

I’d actually copyright two codes- the core functionality as one and the unique connection to their api as a second. 

The first one ought to be a product that is valuable and reusable elsehere for similar applications; this one would certainly be on your own time as certainly you’ve considered that other entities that you could interact with now that you work in this given virtical… include in this how license would be made available.

The second copyright would be where you direct all arguments that this is part of your job; making their environment work with your product is the extent of where arguments that this is part of the assignment ends. You could clearly create this for any company to deploy your bonafide and copyrighted program.

After copyright is completed I’d provide previous employer w cease and desist notice. It seems to me they are penny pinchers and not on the bleeding edge of tech. I’d imagine that getting this free program out of you as an employee was even anticipated before your hiring, and it’s no surprise that things come to a close once this system has been up and running. 

They dont want to go to court at all. 

Just as it was cheaper to bring you onboard for a couple years than deploy industry standard software, an amicable out of court agreement to license your software, compensate you for ongoing maintenance as necessary (don’t bake in needs for updates, you’ll have much more lucrative things ahead of you and this will just be a little bonus here and there) and heck, provide testimony to your awesome solution as you continue your career offering bespoke solutions would be the happy ending for all parties.

"somebody committed a crime but I don't want them to be prosecuted because that will make things worse on them" is exactly how you enable them to find the next victim!

NAL just a musician. Talk with the bands you play with because a W-9 is usually involved for payment.

I sent them a email asking for clarification if depreciation was taken into account. Now I'm just waiting to hear back. If they did I'll cough up the extra $100 and ask them to please notify me when they will be entering my apartment.

Contact a lawyer. 

The fault-based grounds are:

1. Adultery
2. Desertion for one year
3. Physical cruelty
4. Habitual drunkenness (including certain drug abuse)  

South Carolina also allows a no-fault divorce, but unlike many states, the spouses must live separate and apart for one continuous year before filing on that ground. Simply living in separate bedrooms in the same house does not qualify.  

One important difference is that a fault-based divorce can often be filed without waiting for a one-year separation period, assuming the fault can be proven. Fault can also affect issues such as alimony and, in some cases, property division.  

If you’re asking because of a specific situation (for example, adultery, substance abuse, or a spouse making allegations), I

That’s a good point, because they’ve been able to make 100s of accounts.. so they are likely using a vpn to get past instagram’s ban. Good point

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Wrong Subreddit**

We are a US and Canadian based subreddit and are unable to help with legal questions involving the laws of other countries. You may want to try one of the following subs:

r/LegalAdviceUK

r/LegalAdviceEurope

r/AusLegal

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

That in and of itself is a good reason for not signing it.

Yes I have! The only thing is the financial cost, I’m on mat leave with my first born, so not sure if it’ll be the most affordable for me but at this point I might have to

Via the email I received "There may be a process where you complete a form and then they do the investigative and prosecutorial work. 
" 

I have enough for them to go of off. Thanks for your advice though.

Depends on whether the locality recognizes common-law partnership.

You'll need to see what OR considers "doing business" in the state related to a foreign entity qualified to do business there. Generally, state laws list business activities that are *not* doing business in the state (for example, having a bank account there, or solely owning real property there), and you have to work backwards to reckon if you *are* doing business in the state.

Repeated transactions in the host state could be considered "doing business." (Sporadic or occasional transactions may not fall under "doing business".)

I don't know if OR has a franchise tax or other taxes as some states do for domestic and foreign companies. If you determine you need to file in OR as a foreign entity, that process should let you know. If your 1099 is in OR, they are responsible for their own taxes.

You'll want to pay attention to OR state worker classification laws as well as how the IRS and FLSA approach classifying workers. If you run a tutoring business and engage with tutors to provide services to your clients, they might be classified as W2 under state or local laws.

look into kansas specifically, they haven’t really expanded on medicaid

I don't recommend doing this but it worked for me once. My employer was firing me and gave me a form to sign that listed several "issues" (none that had ever been addressed with me). I was desperate for my final check and they wouldn't hand it over without a signature. So, I signed but only after I wrote that I was only acknowledging receipt. I also took pictures of it. When it came to filing unemployment I pointed out that the day after I was "fired" the owners daughter was given my full time position. I also asked that they provide proof that any of the issues had ever been issues prior to the owners daughter finishing school and needing a full time job. Unemployment started pretty fast after that.

u/Bob_Sconce has a really good point. 

But I have to ask, were you asked/required to file a form that had you note the condition of the apartment when you were moving in? If so, I am guessing you already stated in that form that the carpet was old and falling apart or at least semi damaged when you moved in. Refer your landlord to that form. 

If you didn't fill out a form like that, be sure to do it yourself if its not provided at your next place. I filmed the condition of my apartment before I moved in, noting any stains, cracks, dents, etc. in a video to have proof is my landlord tried anything when I moved out.

You need to file for a contempt hearing. While she likely won't be found in contempt of the order because of it's language, the court seeing that there's an issue with the order can modify it to have definitive time lines.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Wrong Subreddit**

We are a US and Canadian based subreddit and are unable to help with legal questions involving the laws of other countries. You may want to try one of the following subs:

r/LegalAdviceUK

r/LegalAdviceEurope

r/AusLegal

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

you can apply for disability based on your schizophrenia which would make you eligible for insurance, but you wouldn’t be able to work full time. now, once you’re stabilized this wouldn’t be as much of an issue as you could then transition to working full time. some behavioral healthcare companies work on sliding scales, meaning they could work with you under your financial situation.

I’m an AA based developer. If you tell me the provider and the speed I can tell you what they are paying. It’s between 35 and 90ish per unit.

The rest the lawyer can figure out.

You're expecting a lawyer to pay for a private investigator?

This case is not practical or viable.

It was Feb 2016 so we’re a few months past 10 years. Thanks for your response.

Thank you. It’s very hard for us lay people when reading things online to know what can/can’t be held accountable.

I’ll take your advice and won’t stress myself out if I keep hearing the same thing.

You have no legal recourse because english speaking support agent didn't know the difference between korean and chinese writing.

Unless you are currently in jail, a habeas corpus petition is not relevant.

What you *could* have done to be released on bail pretrial, or to have a trial at all, are also water under the bridge.

Thank you ❤️ I just wanted her to leave me alone, and I learned how to grey-rock very early in life, so that might have made it a little easier for me to stonewall for as long as I did. I guess I wanted to make myself as unappealing a target as I could, but ignoring her clearly didn't work. And I avoid conflict like the plague, so it was super upsetting to have to resort to screaming back at her to protect myself last week. Especially in front of my dogs. They're such sweet boys and were so scared. It still makes me want to cry thinking about that.

She gets Social Security soon, but her entire existence (as far as I can tell) revolves around this garden and the dog park in general. So she could lose her job, lose her garden, potentially be charged with battery, and slapped with a restraining order. I don't want to bring politics into this, but she's also Q-Anon, and I think she might have a gun. I've got so much evidence that I'm hoping the next steps are straightforward, but it's going to take me some time to save enough money to find a lawyer, and I've seen enough true crime that I'm scared of what this could turn into now that I've filed that police report. Have my fingers/toes/eyes crossed that she won't take it there. 😕

That’s true. Because he refuses to reply to me now, I thought about messaging a family member of his threatening to report him to the police and take him to court because of the messages. But obviously a bluff because I don’t have them I can’t do anything

Not vacating the marital home, while I’m paying for it, and she gets a percentage equity of my sole contribution upon sale. She’s “squatting” in a home where she’s an owner on the deed but I’m footing the bill without a clear end date. 

In short: she’s living the dream on my dime.

I have a her full name. And her birthday. The rest the lawyer can figure out. I also have only usernames. She, for some odd reason posted her full government name on twitter in 2014, a streamer friend of mine found it for me because I needed help. I didnt even ask him. He just knew about the situation and wanted to help.

Thank you! That's what I was confused on.

Yes, the last I saw the total amount was just short of $90,000

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Please also check the address with L&I li.phila.gov and see if there are any open violations. If so, contact the local L&I office and tell them about the open violations and landlord harassment. Good luck.

I want the people that are constantly participating in the harrashment to pay.

Okay.  Do you have the full legal names of each of those people, as well as their address?  Yes or no?  

I actually might have a case.

"Might" is doing a lot of work there.

Your account info on twitch is your responsibility and any changes made to the payment details with them is not on twitch. If the info was changed and the payment sent to somewhere else I'd try making a police report.

Wha town in West TN? I know a good shop in Martin that would look at it. But, on that note, you said the swapped 1and 4 plugs, as in put new ones on, physically swapped the plugs or just swapped the wires from one to the other? 
If they swapped wires or even put 2 bad plugs in it would run rough. That seems to be the only thing they did that would cause the problem.
 Swap everything back first and see what that does. 

Welcome to send me PM or DM , whatever they are on here, maybe I can help ya.

He doesn’t know you have deleted them!

What exactly is your ex not doing?

Not a whole discord community, people that participated in the harrashment. Sueing a whole discord community is 100% impractical and unfair to people that did nothing to me. I want the people that are constantly participating in the harrashment to pay. I also got a email today from a legal services in my area. I created this post because i didnt know how long they would take to respond but they responded pretty quickly and told me I actually might have a case.

I'm a paralegal in Arizona. This is our law. Arizona is weird.

/r/legaladvicecanada is the sub specific for Canadian issues. Might get better resources there

From the ~$700 charge it seems like they are replacing the carpet in the whole apartment.

$700 to replace all the carpet in an apartment is fairly cheap. Your landlord may already be accounting in for depreciation.

So what happens if either party doesn't show up but she sent back papers to settle it? this law office handling it for them is hours away.  

Like if they don't show up tomorrow what happens to the agreed settlement? Or same what if she didn't show up?

OP has a lawyer. It sounds like they're just feeling anxious (understandably so!) and is looking for reassurance.

I believe it's a brand new carpet. I know the old tenants had cats (I found multiple old and dusty cat toys under the fridge that were not mine or my roommates). The damage my cat made is on the seams of the front door, and around edge of my bedroom door. No holes, only some fraying.

What specific provision of that rather lengthy bill (you need to check the chaptered version, not the bill language) do you think applies to this situation?

If you move, you won't be able to file for custody/visitation of the child until that child has lived in the state for 6 months or more. During that time, your husband could file and request that the court return the child to their home state.

Hear in NJ, I had to go all the way to the head of the Dept of Community Affairs to get the ruling that the "field" inspector has to stay within the bounds of the permitted work and not start adding based on "other" interpretation

No.  

These are good reasons to find a different job.  Bu there's nothing here to sue over.

I am sorry this happened with your landlord OP. It certainly seems like the landlord’s conduct was unethical, but I can’t really say for sure about your attorney. It sounds like he was disorganized, and you can certainly file a bar complaint if you believe he neglected your case, costing you time. But none of what you describe sounds like it rises to the level of malpractice. I would be willing to believe what the first firm told you: that the damages you’d be pursuing through a suit wouldn’t make that suit worth it. Certainly go get that second opinion, but I wouldn’t seek a third.

If you receive benefits from your employer - you will want to understand what the 6/1 vs 5/30 does for when COBRA starts - at my company a termination on the 1st provided coverage for the month of June vs coverage ending in May.

I only have the bank statements now. I wish I hadn’t deleted the messages but at the same I was so mad at him I stupidly deleted the whole message thread and it wasn’t until a few months later things changed to how they are now. I stupidly believed he would give it back 🤦🏻‍♀️

Let's say that you utterly destroyed the carpet on purpose by, say, painting it.  The most your landlord could charge you for is the value of what they lost -- 15-year-old carpeting.  But, carpeting typically depreciates over a 5-7 year period, so 15-year old carpeting has no actual value.

The right response to your landlord is:  "The carpet was already beyond its useful lifespan when I moved in.  You are not permitted to make any deduction from my security deposit due to its current condition."

Would be helpful if you had some documentation (photographs, whatever) of its condition or age.

The damage is on the seam right by the front door and on the edge of my bedroom door. From the ~$700 charge it seems like they are replacing the carpet in the whole apartment. 

They are also charging a ~$300 labor fee and a $78 rip up fee. I was also told in the email that I can pay for the damages now but not have the carpet replaced, since I'm planning of staying there. If I decide to do that I will be taking pictures of the current damage so this doesn't happen again. 

This is not the first time they have entered the apartment without notice. The other times have been when I called maintenance to fix an issue and they arrive a few days later.

I'm not very happy about having to pay another 1K deposit for a roommate change on top of not getting any of my current deposit back.

This is not true. In every state, liability investigations are done, and many times, a person that was rear-ended is found to be at fault if they did something like cut the other person off. Every claim isn’t handled on a case by case basis.

They also have to speak with their own driver to confirm coverage.

Sounds really frustrating that she's trying to make everything more difficult while missing visits herself. The court usually wants to keep costs reasonable and consider both parents' situations - making him drive 2 hours each way and pay hourly fees when he's been following all requirements seems excessive. 

  
He should document everything she's doing (missed visits, threatening to withhold the child, demanding gas money) because that's gonna work in his favor when they review the arrangement. Courts don't like when one parent uses the kid as leverage for money.

Didn't the amount you invested appreciate whilst invested? I don't know how this stuff works

Regulatory counsel in another state: In addition to seeking legal counsel re: the rental situation, you need to contact the California Public Utilities Commission’s Consumer Affairs Division asap. I can’t imagine a world where you would be on the hook for the gas bill, unless your name is on the account, which doesn’t appear to be the case. In most instances such as these, where a landlord fails to play the utility bills, leaving a tenant stranded, you should be able to open your own account with the gas company to continue service.

Well, if "someone on Facebook" said you have a civil case, then it must be true.  

It's still impractical.  You want to sue a discord.  Do you have the full, real names of everyone involved?  Their addresses?  If they all live in different states, are you going to file lawsuits in each of those states?  Does anyone involved have any liquid assets that are collectible in the unlikely event you ever obtained an enforceable judgment?

Being legally allowed to file a complaint is very different from having a viable lawsuit, much less one that any lawyer will want to take.

You would at the least need something to back up your claims that he borrowed the money.

If you sign it you won’t be eligible for unemployment because “you quit”. They are trying to avoid paying that. They can’t legally deny your last paycheck. Notify the department of labor.

Are you a tenant in a mobilehome park as defined under California law?

Why would your landlord be liable for this if they were not the ones that made you vacate? I can understand if there was an issue of your apartment / home due to something they were doing, but this is a very different situation.  Ie. if there was a wildfire going on & the city forced everyone to vacate their homes, you wouldn't expect your LL or anyone else to reimburse you for that time, no?

Id call the police, id read all the fine print in the lease, and I'd make sure I wasn't doing anything wrong.

Many years ago I had a small-ish small claims judgment that was not paid. The Marshal’s office was helpful in searching DMV records for vehicles. When the tow truck showed up at 5am they decided to write a check on the spot. This was in California if that matters…

That wasn't the question you asked, and the answer is I don't know. For starters, she would need to review the current wage orders and the exceptions in AB5.

The issue is the senior executive was fishing for information that they were not entitled to know about my leave from other employees that have nothing to do with my workload. 

Why do you believe a senior officer at your work isn't able to access the information they were asking about? I'm unaware of any law that prevents them from knowing this information.

Your landlord isnt there to care for you.

They rent you an apartment.  That's as far as their responsibility to your personal safety goes.

I don't hear any strong indication of a claim here.  

The biggest "malpractice" I hear is if there was some outcome expected other than the one you got.  But I just don't know what wed' be suing for.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

I don't see any malpractice here. You weren't happy with the attorney, he suggested you find new representation, and billed you for the time worked.  Nothing he did while he represented you was malpractice. This is all routine. The fact that you didn't or couldn't find a new lawyer doesn't turn anything he did into malpractice, and he's not responsible for anything that happened afterward.

I’m speaking with a larger firm soon

If this case isn't financially viable for a smaller firm, I don't see how it would be for a larger one.  Larger firms do larger cases.

If they’re getting evicted then why not just wait? Or move?

Is this standard procedure or if she goes and they don't show what happens?

This *can be* standard practice.  

Very often a debt collector schedules lots and lots of cases for the same day.  And run through them in order, taking default judgments for most where the debtors don't show.  Dismissing the few that are settled.  Setting trials where answers are filed.  

You're right.  Mom should go tomorrow and make sure the outcome comes out the right way.  Not because we know something has or is going wrong but because don't trust a debt collector as far as you can throw them.

Chargebacks don’t enforce consumer protection laws. If you didn’t get your items that would be appropriate.

Go for the car OOP.  If he's that loaded he probably swaps his cars regularly.  Source: My wife has a multi millionaire step uncle who does that (but pays his bills on time).

The attorneys you spoke to are right. The juice isn't worth the squeeze on this one. You'd likely spend way more money than you'd hope to get out of a suit.

Ok. What about habeas corpus? Can you explain that to me?

Sounds like they already have. You mentioned that they jave begun the eviction process for your neighbors. This is typically the extent of their involvement. 

If you've been threatened that is not your landlords responsibility. File a police report as many have suggested.

Regarding your other concerns, rent going up, repair man entering your property, etc those are things you can discuss with your landlord directly. Unless there is a law limiting the increase amount or you are under a fixed lease, there isn't much in your favor. In most states a landlord only needs to give you notice of intent to enter the premises. Your situation would be much clearer if you could share the exact terms of your lase agreement - unless you are currently on a month to month lease.

There’s no reason to sign anything. You don’t work for them anymore.

They can't just take your word for it. Without any proof or a police report they do not have to do anything.

If the neighbors are also renting from the same company, maybe. But it'd be an eviction which takes time and sounds like it is happening. 

Also, is the issue isn't serious enough for a police report and likely followup, then it is not an issue for you, it'd just be someone's word. If the issue isn't big enough to get the police involved then they are fine in their obligations. 

The safe environment is mostly inside your home and things they can control.

You can request a copy of your card from your local SSA office. Since you don’t have a birth certificate with your name one it, you can use an employee identification card if you work. If not a school/student id works (as long as it’s not expired). They should have your name that you’ve gone by on them and at least one should have a recent photo of you. If you don’t go to school currently, you can apply to your local community college (usually free) and have them create a student ID for you. If you have any kind of state ID that should work as well, I’m not sure if you have your driver’s license or not but if you do use it

Don’t sign anything. Turn in your keys and call it good. They are attempting to make it look like you resigned, from experience.

They aren’t going to get in the middle of a tenant squabble. File a police report. They won’t be giving their other tenant a “stern talking to.” They are already following the law to evict them. They’ve told you what to do. We’ve told you what to do.

Do I have any legal rights to at least send a cease and desist so that this rhetoric is not spread?

You *always* have the legal right to send a cease and desist.  

We obviously don't know whether your employer will take this as a warning, or as a reason to double down.  

Nor do we know what the employer might say he actually said how how he might defend the truth of whatever he said.

Making a police report of an incident does not necessarily mean going into a court room. You need that report to build a paper trail so when your tires do get slashed, you can point to that in the event you need to seek remuneration or a restraining order. If you wait until something further happens to report it, no one is going to be able to prove it’s based on a threat that already occurred. 

Making a police report is relatively straightforward. You go to the station in person & speak to someone. If it helps, have a statement pre-written explaining dates, times, who was involved, & what happened - essentially a factual diary entry. 

If you have a terrible time speaking up for yourself, you may wish to seek out a therapist to work on this with. They could assist you with the feelings behind it & hopefully help you with strategies to move forward.

I don’t exactly know that’s why I’m here

Please dont leave the children

From my understanding they have to unsure a safe living environment, just from what I’ve read in tenants rights things. I’m just wondering if their lack of follow through is something that they’re responsible for

if my landlord has any responsibility to take action 

What, exactly, would you expect your landlord to do here?

You can file a police report. Your landlord has no responsibility to act based on your word alone. In fact they are responsible for the opposite. They must take care of all their tenants, not just you.

THAT is how you loudly quit.

so SOMEONE there has received a paycheck? maybe they give physical checks?

I’m not asking them to kick them out, they’re getting evicted because of things they’ve done in the previous year, which has nothing to do with me. One of those being a dog getting killed under their watch. I’m asking here what I can do moving forward and if my landlord has any responsibility to take action

i try to avoid it when possible

Avoiding the police this time is not possible if you want something to happen here.

You're spot-on. Thankfully, I've never sought out information about this woman on my own—everything I've been told about her is in response to some new, insane accusation she's made about me, and is usually accompanied by assurances (from people who know or are familiar with her) that she's unhinged and I shouldn't worry about it. 

So it's been weird to balance everything I've been hearing with everything I've experienced. The only way I was able to grey-rock her from August thru last week was because I listened to friends and kept telling myself she was all talk, that there was no point in further engaging with a crazy person. And I'm really glad I did that, because it (hopefully) will help my case if/when I file a protective order. 

I wrote more in this thread about garden planting/removal, but didn't include in the body of my post (because it got long and I wanted to keep it broad). 

As far as speaking about it presently goes, I'm not sharing with anyone who doesn't need to know (i.e. my family/close friends/neighbors, and witnesses willing to testify under subpoena). She's going to find out about my police report soon, if she hasn't already, so I wanted to make sure I had enough people around me that knew what's been going on. It's been interesting, to put it mildly, to show neighbors my video from last week and tell them I'm being stalked because of tomatoes 🤪

They can't just kick someone out cause you say something happened. What if your neighbor called them and said you did the threatening and you should be kicked out? Wouldn't that be unfair? Without a police report they aren't just going to kick someone out on your word.

I just wish your dad was a better support system for you instead of shaming you.

The landlord would be the judgement creditor and holds the majority of the cards until the judgement is satisfied, expires, or is otherwise extinguished. It is also possible that, for example, that the debtor has worked out a payment plan with the creditor and the judgement creditor will only foreclose the lien if they fail to adhere to the payment plan.

The sheriff cannot render judgement (that has to be done by a court) but can execute a court order.

Technically, they might be able to claim fraud in the inducement and have the entire contract voided.  Tough row to hoe, especially with only verbal agreement for the fraud, but not impossible.

I haven’t seen my mom in over 10 years, and one of the reason I struggle getting cops involved is because of her violent behavior. I spent most of my childhood life in a court room so I try to avoid it when possible.

Small claims court only deals with monetary damages in most jurisdictions; they usually do not have the legal authority to deem a contract unenforceable. That's a power reserved to the court of general jurisdiction.

Honestly, don't overthink this. They probably aren't going to give you a receipt for the keys and they don't have any obligation to do so.

Go in, give them the keys, ask them when you can expect your final pay, and if they offer you a document to sign, take it with you (unsigned) or leave it with them as you feel is most appropriate. If they tell you you need to sign something before they'll pay you, or, equivalently, if they just straight-up refuse or ignore the question, leave and start the wage claim process.

Odds are that the document they want you to sign is not worth having reviewed, but there's not much they can do to stop you from taking it with you for review if that's what you want to do. They can yell about it, but you don't have much obligation to listen.

u/reddituser1211 gave a nice succinct answer. Though your landlord may have violated the law by entering without sufficient notice, that violation won’t affect the carpet charge.

It should be pretty easy to ask the state or county if there is a marriage certificate on file. I've dealt with both my parents dying the past few years and my fiancés gramma dying last year. She had a large trust that we're still working on. His dad died years ago as did her husband; so we've had to travel to LA and riverside counties to collect death certificates. It's a pain in the ass but relatively easy

Keep a record of everything and hire a lawyer

Even if the landlord entered without following the proper notice requirements, that doesn't erase any legitimate damage claim. Are you asking if their procedure errors would make the carpet bill disappear? If so, no- the carpet damage is going to need to be paid for one way or another. It's really two separate issues- but you can send a written reminder to your landlord reminding them of their obligation to give you notice of entry. 

You should be charged the cost to replace the carpet in that room and it should based on the depreciated value of the carpet - is the cost reasonable based on that criteria?

They are your landlord, not mommy. They can't just take action against your neighbor based on your word. If the police arrest them and they get convicted in court, then they might have something to work with.

I'll send a email to make sure depreciation is accounted for. 

Thank you so much!

how long have you lived there and how old was the carpet before you moved in? the landlord can't make you pay the full cost of a brand new carpet, only what an x-year-old carpet would be worth. 

entering when they shouldn't have doesn't help you at all here, though.

Your mother is 100% lying. You don’t get “the wrong one” for your SSN unless you go through the extremely long, grueling process of trying to change it, and the only reason you’d do that is if your identity has been fully compromised.

Don’t sign anything without talking to a lawyer. The state labor board will also be interested in them withholding your paycheck and not allowing you to have a copy of the document.

Hand them the keys and take a photo or video on your phone of you giving them the keys as well as a photo of the person you gave them too.

It sounds like the biggest issue isn't the property itself, it's that your aunt's estate was never probated and your cousin isn't taking action.

Based on what you described, your lawyer's explanation makes sense. Until your aunt's interest in the property passes through her estate and ultimately to your cousin, it's hard to see how your father could buy him out or complete a sale with clear title.

I wouldn't rely too much on the idea of selling during probate without first understanding who would have authority to sign and convey your aunt's interest in the property. That's probably the key question here.

If your father is willing to open probate for his sister's estate and potentially serve as administrator, that seems like it could move things forward, especially since your cousin doesn't appear motivated to handle it himself.

I'd be curious what your attorney says about whether an administrator could proceed with a sale before probate is fully completed in Ohio. Given the ownership situation, that seems like a probate and title question more than a real estate question.

What if they refuse to give me any other documentation stating a turned in the keys except for that one?

Thank you for the help anyway!

Return the key and file a wage claim with the state.

Just don’t sign it. Go in, tell them that you need a receipt confirming that they received the keys, hand them the keys, get the receipt, and leave.

and I quote "We do not just patch the carpet. We replace the entire carpet.

A reasonable position.  

Did my landlord break the law/violate my rights?

Maybe.  Certainly you're entitled to remind landlord of the notice requirements and see them followed in the future. 

If so, can I get these costs somehow dropped or reduced?

No.

I’m NAL so I’ll defer to the actual experts. Your address being theirs may mean you’re part of their household and thus unable to secure a public defender

Source:

They also refused to give me a copy of the document to take and look over before signing, until I signed it

It was explained to you by your attorney, and again by the judge, that you were giving up your right to appeal your conviction when you entered a guilty plea.

The judge asked you if you were pleading guilty because you were guilty.   Since you did not commit the crimes, you lied to the judge in order to obtain what you viewed as a lesser punishment of conviction instead of waiting for trial.

That trial, which you gave up your right up have, was very probably your only opportunity to dispute the charges.

I don't know if you asked your attorney or anyone else about post-conviction consequences.  Since you were already in jail and pleaded guilty to both violent and nonviolent felonies, I have difficulty believing you were wholly ignorant of the effects of a criminal record on your employability.

Georgia allows employers to "look back" more than the conventional 7 years into your criminal history.   Some states allow or encourage a shorter period.

And Georgia has a very generous "Second Chance" law that allows for sealing of some crimes for people who have only one or two convictions for less serious things.

As sympathetic as I am about how horrible jail is and your incentives for wanting to taste free air at any price, criminal trial and plea really are one-time opportunities.

Who may or may not decide it’s worth the effort? The person who put the lien? Because it’s the building owners past landlord not a creditor, unless you call them creditors.  So if the (past landlord) decides it’s not worth their time going to court to force the sale, he would just wait for the landlord to sell?  That’s what ur saying? Because it’s been just about 2 years since the judgment by the sheriff, and nothing has happened.

The state of California does NOT recognize common law marriage. He has definitely committed fraud and on that basis alone should not be included in ANY inheritance. Maybe an amount that you decide in a trust for the baby. But legally, he is entitled to nothing. Find a lawyer that will accept payment once the accounts are all settled and have the cost of that deducted from all beneficiaries equally. You should really consider reporting him for the fraud. Though he may feel a certain way about things doesn't give him the right to commit fraud

You may want to hire a traffic attorney. Definitely do not drive on a suspended license. Check the case details to make sure it’s just a fine and suspension and they don’t have a bench warrant for failure to appear in court.

have you considered reaching out to a lawyer familiar with cyber harassment cases?

See my comment above for relevant cases.

NYL and NLA: 

PA has also had court cases on the issue: 

Health Care & Retirement Corp. of America v. Pittas, 46 A.3d 719 (Pa. Super. Ct. 2012), is one of the leading modern cases on Pennsylvania’s filial support law.  

But there are limits. See Melmark, Inc. v. Schutt (Pa. Super. Ct. 2019) (demonstrating  the factor analysis that the recipient is indigent AND the defendant has sufficient financial means); and Presbyterian Medical Center v. Budd (Pa. Super. Ct. 2003) (held that several defenses, including child abandonment by the recipient parent for a period, may be valid).

It sounds like you both need some serious mental help. Punching each other in the face and breaking shit is not normal.

The police don’t need to read you your rights unless you were the subject of a custodial interrogation, which you probably weren’t on the roadside. The “lies” that you point out in the report seem to be relatively nitpicky stuff (open vs closed hand) and probably aren’t actually “lies” so much as misunderstandings or misrememberings when the officer wrote the report. Regardless, whether she hit you with an open or closed hand doesn’t really make a difference when you admit to breaking her stuff, putting her in a bear hug, and punching her in the face multiple times.

If she wasn’t charged with anything she doesn’t need a court appointed attorney. She is a witness for the prosecution, not a party who needs their own attorney.

You can work with your public defender on this.

Depending on who the underlying carrier is and what if any construction costs were involved they might not be.

I live on campus at my University but their address is listed as my permanent address on my ID

You have a lawyer! Talk to your lawyer about this! Please!

The technical term would be to foreclose the lien, and the creditor could do that -- they'd have to file a suit and a court would need to enter judgement so they may or may not decide it's worth their effort vs. waiting for the landlord to sell

You already have an attorney. I have no idea if anything will help you win the case, but I’m positive that making a post openly admitting to hitting your ex and breaking her property won’t help...

I dunno where you’re from but every show I’ve ever played I’ve been paid, even just a little amount

Do you live with your parents?

I am a lawyer, but not your lawyer.

DON’T SIGN ANYTHING, DON’T SAY ANYTHING.

Yes, you will need to return the keys. Ask for a receipt or some other proof from them acknowledging that the keys were returned. That way, they can’t come back and say you refuse to turn in the keys.

If they tell you that you can’t get your final check without signing something, don’t say anything, but immediately contact your state Department of labor and employment.

In case you didn’t hear it the first time, don’t sign anything, and say the absolute minimum that you have to say when you’re there. Don’t acknowledge anything they say, don’t answer any questions that they have, nothing like that.

What YOU may have been commenting in is wholly unrelated to my comments. 

My info is based on representing injured workers for 20 years. I pulled the MI statutes, for OP.  I was discussing throughout the post that OP needs to see a real DR get their WC case info, & get driving rx. If a Dr has you driving with a large boot on- this may be inherently unsafe. If OP injures themselves/others this could be a major cause of action against MD.

Would that even work for me as I am not a landlord?

Over on the landlord subreddit, people suggest forgiving debts of insolvent people, but then sending the IRS a form 1099-C telling them you did it. You get no money, but the debtor must count it as income and pay tax on it. The IRS has ways to collect that you do not.

Yes even when I go back I will have some buffer. Not a ton but a bit.

The issue is the senior executive was fishing for information that they were not entitled to know about my leave from other employees that have nothing to do with my workload. It wasn't that they were trying to cover a task or anything. They were simply fishing for information and now it's evolved into gossip that I have resigned and I have not. Which I don't believe would have come about had the executive not been fishing for information from others. That is my concern. Because it has caused false information to be floated around as well as the exec now has personal details about the leave that they were not entitled to know.

That was an exaggeration-I'm obviously not privy to their contract. Just emphasizing that they are profiting for this. My internet doesn't cost nearly as much and doesn't have caps, so this is a complete downgrade for me.

You're frequently ineligible for unemployment benefits if you're voluntarily unemployed, i.e., if you resign from your job. You may be able to appeal that decision if you can show that your "voluntary" departure was not in fact voluntary, but in general you should only agree to resign if you're getting enough out of the deal that not getting unemployment is no concern.

Your employer cannot force you to resign, and, having fired you, your employer has no further leverage to force you to agree to things you didn't already agree to. If they refuse to pay your final paycheck, file a wage complaint.

Return your keys and any other property of your employer. Withholding them does you no good.

The specifics of the case don't matter. That's a Supreme Court citation, and it's binding on all lower courts of the land. The rule is, the harm does not have to be material or significant, it merely had to exist.

You don’t need much really, you can just start working as a contractor for a foreign company (US included) and save some money for taxes and that’s pretty much it.
I’ve done it for a couple of years and it’s fine, just the taxes part that sucks but I’d keep a receipt of everything and apply all as business expenses

You need to return the keys. You do not need to sign any documents. They can’t withhold your pay for refusing to sign.

Call the DV Hotline at 800-799-7233 or text 88788. That can help you make a plan to get out.

To avoid people offering it as a suggestion, but I guess you guys are just fixated on it and want to keep bringing it up regardless of what I said. Maybe you have nothing better to do? 🤣 Do you have any real suggestions or want to just keep talking about the visa I said I didn't want, three separate times now 😂

They're probably paying $10/unit and pocketing the rest.

I've done enterprise networking in this area for a decade. Their cost isn't anywhere near that cheap.

How much FMLA have you used in total? You mention that you had used it intermittently and then had to go on continuous as well as extend it. Are you still less than the 12 weeks you are entitled too?

I’m 25 which I know isn’t helpful to me. I mention my parents as I’m in Grad School so I’m strapped on cash myself

I wish I could tell you that anything I said was a lie, but it's all true. I don't need an order of protection because I "feel like it", I need an order of protection because a mentally ill person is threatening my life. DHS has already made moves behind the backs of all lawyers involved in this case in attempts to try and place him with me, which I had to push back against because I wasn't yet fully prepared. I didn't get involved only because DHS contacted me, it's because it happened twice in 3 years, and if his mother was anything like who she was in the time we were together, kiddo desperately needed someone on his side. Over the 15 years of his life, I've gotten my shit together. I'm a healthy productive member of society, that can actually provide what he needs. Whereas his mother is unhoused, self-medicated, and mentally unstable to the point of telling DHS, in person, that she'll kill me if they place him with me. It's also an ICWA case, so they have to go to extreme efforts to keep the family together, and I'm family.

This sounds like something you need to involve social workers in. You are a legal adult, he does not have the right to deny you medication or lock you up.

I just edited my comment after reading the citation. That case and this case are not the same. She hasnt lost any opportunities, atleast nothing proveable.. dead in the water case.

Exactly what you replied to above. Opportunities for learning and advancement.

Why wouldn't you press charges?  If a thing like the law wont stop them from jumping you then what makes you think a judge signing a piece of paper saying they aren't allowed to be near you will?

My understanding is the US equivalent to our credit bureau is Equifax.

Hahaha. You didn't lose a year of your life, you might have just been given a blank check for damages. Take his ass for everything he is worth, a good lawyer would take this one on contingency. Remember - Don't take one who won't, you're a student and in an education litigation, any lawyer who expects you to pay now has no plan on winning the big settlement at the end and just wants your pocket change while you're vulnerable.

What is the "some"??

It depends on the state. For instance, in South Carolina, the family court handles name changes and birth certificate amendments.

Insurance follows the vehicle, so OP's car, OP's insurance. Any insurance the son had, he didn't have any, would be excess.

"Bands get paid for shows".  Good one.

Hopefully you took videos and pictures of how the unit was left when you moved out to prove your case. I would print the law in your state and send it to the landlord and tell her if she doesnt respond I  72 hours your going to sue her for the deposit and 5,000 more for pain and suffering.   Also you can contact a lawyer and see if they will send her a letter saying if she doesnt pay you will sue her.

Seller doesn't need title insurance, the title insurance they may have doesn't cover this scenario.  They need title company to file a scrivener's affidavit or the buyer's lender file a partial release.   I presume that the seller hasn't known of this problem for six months and been waiting patiently all this time.

Don’t forget federally you can COBRA for IIRR 18 months, so not sure why the medical deduction is offered in the settlement unless it is just the employee contribution portion.

*No — a signature on a contract binds you to the specific terms of that contract only. Using it for a different project without new consent is not just unethical, it's potentially fraudulent depending on jurisdiction.*

*This is actually a good example of why the exact scope language in freelance contracts matters so much — 'work product' and 'project' definitions that seem overly broad when you sign them are exactly what companies use to justify this kind of overreach later.*

*Document everything in writing — send an email explicitly stating you did not authorize use of your signature for any project other than the original 2023 agreement.*

I agree but we were commenting based on his all clear from the dr. If the Dr says no driving then that's an entirely different conversation.

Wait you gave money back?  How did you get the deposit?  (Scam warning that deposit could fail in the next few days if found fraudulent) 

No one spends $300 to rent a trailer unless they are a moron.  It’s for a couch not some 10,000lb piece of equipment.

If you owe a bondsman. That might mean you missed a court date. Normally you pay them a percentage of the bond to get out. If all things go well. There isn't anything else owed.

From a legal standpoint, it appears you have the lawful authority to do so. From a practical standpoint, individual institutions aren't legall obligated to follow a POA. It's possible they could require a different POA for their records or require that he sign the paperwork.

Most contracts have what is called an "integration clause" which essentially states that you agree that the contract itself contains all agreed-upon terms and any other promises are unenforceable.

Once you sign such a contract, you are waiving any claims as to outside representations. The exact terms of the written contract apply.

In theory, one could claim fraud in the inducement if you had some evidence of the verbal promises that were made in order to convince you to sign the contract. You would also have to provide evidence that (1) they knew those promises to be false at the time, (2) knew that the promises would make you sign the contract, and (3) without such promises, you wouldn't have signed the contract.

Of course, this then becomes a "he said, she said" situation, and the company will produce policy handbooks which clearly state that no employee can make any representations about the contract terms that contradict those terms. The employees will then state that they follow this policy with every customer. Typically, they will probably win this case -- though gyms and such have very poor reputations in most jurisdictions for exactly this kind of crap, so there's an outside chance you could prevail.

That said, you'll probably pay more than what you owe on the contract to take this to court just to get the contract rescinded.  So you're better off just paying what's due and cancelling when you're able to -- or paying whatever cancellation penalty is in the contract.

It's a tough way to learn contract law, but unfortunately lots of people learn this under similar circumstances.

None of the things “on your side” make you not guilty. 

You need a lawyer. If there’s a way out of this not convicted you want it. Desperately.

He could take the classes and become an official foster parent for these children, and there would be a little money associated with that, which could help with childcare costs. Seems like time might be of the essence here though, which could make this a more tough decision.

Thank you. In Utah I cannot file against a government entity in small claims.

Electronic signatures are only valid because they have audit trails.  Demand to see the evidence and let them know that you will be turning them over to the authorities for forgery and fraud if they try to get any $$ for you for "terminating your lease early".  You can go file a police report for nothing at the station, so you don't have to get a lawyer involved at that point.  Forgery is a criminal offense, you don't have to sue them.  The DA might not take up the case, but I would bet a sworn criminal complaint would be enough to get them to back down.

NAL but you have way more self restraint than me. You should absolutely move forward with a restraining order or assault charges. Most logical people would have knocked her block off for screaming in their face and threatening, and have been completely cleared under self defense. You should be aware of that. Self defense doesn’t require them to hit first. It requires you to reasonably fear for your safety. Which you obviously did. Get the restraining order and move forward with your life.

Many cities have a way to file a claim for damage by the city or city contractors. 

I had city landscapers throw a rock into a window with a weed whacker that cracked the window. I obtained a bid to replace the window and filed a claim with the bid as backup. The city sent me a check for the repair.

It's quite possible this was never reported to the police. The age of culpability, meaning the age from which law makers believe that a child can comprehend right from wrong and thus be subject to prosecution of crimes, is 10 years old. In kindergarten, the child would be 4 or 5.

But I’m in Iowa. I think it’s a bit different

In Canada we have a credit bureau that keeps track of all your credit, your mortgage, your lines of credit, credit cards and rates them so you can either have really good credit rating or or really bad one. If there's a judgment against you it get  put on your credit bureau and that way if he goes to apply for credit anywhere it's there and he'll probably get declined.

Get a lawyer immediately and go see them together. Also notify the police immediately that you are not missing and the cousin has been lying and intentionally been keeping you in the dark against your father’s will so it is on the record if any shady business happens in the end. It won’t be shocking to them to hear that someone is manipulating an elderly person, unfortunately it happens all the time that’s why there are specifically elder attorneys.

I would think it would be better to do it now, that way he can't hold it up later just because he's upset with you. And once the divorce is final you won't have to worry about it.

Your FMLA status isn't protected information that your employer can't share with other employees.

I'm not a lawyer, but my understanding is unless you have something in writing you shouldn't expect it to be followed. As far as I know, cops are allowed to lie to you

What other way were you supposed to leave the jail? Crawling?

In my state, you'd be the aggressor not the victim

Are the kids school age? Their school district may be able to help with resources like a shelter. Or you can call CPS, which could result in the kids going into foster care while she gets her life together. It's a shame their father won't take them in, but CPS could also contact his family members. Sometimes pressure from the government is more convincing than a family request.

Does she have evidence of the medical debt? Do you live in their house? Are you on their medical insurance?

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Advertising and Recommendations** 

This is a forum for legal answers.  We do not allow any advice on specific lawyers, legal services or legal products.  Non-legal advice on products or services may be allowed at moderator discretion.  Please review the following rules before commenting further:

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

2FA would make that even more difficult, no? What kinds of things did you see that led you to believe that your devices were hacked?

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Just curious, how would the pension affect anything?

I don’t have proof but I have testimonies that they lie to a lot of people to sign contracts which is evidence

You aren't able to file an action in another state concerning custody/vistiation of your child until that child has resided in the state for 6 months or more. During that time, your husband could file in the current state you're living in and quite possibly get an order having the child returned to their home state.

A difficult lesson to learn, but…you’ve probably seen people here tell others to take your money and put it into another bank entirely with strict instructions that no one else has access. You can always put someone down as a pay on death beneficiary. Sorry your mother is this way.

Oh, goodness - let that be a lesson for next time. Store those types of documents (equity investments, stock option grants, 401k account info, anything else that might continue past your employment) in personal files, not just company.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Medical Malpractice**

Medical malpractice is very fact specific and it is unfortunately beyond the scope of this subreddit.  We recommended you speak with a medical malpractice attorney; your local or state bar referral service may be able to refer you to one. They typically work on contingency, meaning there is little up front cost to you. Similarly, consultations are often free. It wouldn't hurt to meet with one, have them look over your records, and go from there. You should be aware that many states have very short statutes of limitation for medical malpractice, so delaying contacting an attorney could be detrimental or fatal to your case.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

**Identification of Any Involved Party**

Posts or submissions that ask for or contain information that could be used to identify either party are subject to immediate removal.   If this information is included in the title of your post, which cannot be edited, you must re-post without this information. If not, you will need to edit your comment or post. **Do not make a second post.** Please review the following rules before commenting further

* Reddit Personal Information Rule

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

You need a lawyer to negotiate all of this before you step foot in there.  IMO.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Is defending yourself illegal?

Yes, it absolutely can be—depending on amount of force that was used and if that use of force was reasonable under the circumstances.

What proof of that do you have?

Their side is “no we didn’t, and here’s the written contract they signed which makes how this works very clear.”  

What’s your move?

If this is real, that LP team is FUCKED ***IF*** you raise a stink about it to corporate.

did you find a lawyer? i am trying to find one myself too. They are so hard to find.

I’m not trying to sound entitled or looking for some huge payout. I’m trying to understand what’s considered reasonable when a repair shop returns a vehicle in unsafe condition and it immediately suffers catastrophic failure.
I understand accidents happen and I appreciate that they’re taking responsibility and replacing the engine. But at the same time, this wasn’t related to the original accident damage — it allegedly happened because of something during the repair process. We were put into a dangerous situation on the freeway minutes after pickup, and now the vehicle has major engine history that may affect long-term value.
I’m mainly trying to understand what rights or options people normally have in a situation like this, especially regarding diminished value and the deductible we already paid.  I get that the deductible was for the original repair and it is what it is. But multiple sources have said that my vehicles value has lost up to $8,000 because of the engine replacement itself. They want to put in a used engine and we have no idea why that engine is available.  What kind of damage that original vehicle went through.

If the internet box was not checked off like the other boxes then internet was not part of the agreement. Ive never heard of an apartment having to foot the bill for fiber optic. Usually that cost falls upon the service provider. $65 for 1gig bullock. Definitely find unlimited for cheaper. Seems to me they are running the internet like hotels do. Once you go over that 1gig they are going to rake people over the coals.

This is the answer to your question OP. This is not a legal issue; this is the kind of thing you work out with the retailer because legal action would be cost-prohibitive for both parties.

You can call the local police department and ask. Given that these are juvenile records, I would expect that they probably wouldn’t provide you anything and if they did, it would be nearly 100% redacted.

Even if it was reported, kindergarten age is generally below the age of criminal responsibility. A five year old isn’t going to get dragged into court and charged with a sex offense. Most likely, the police would have completed a referral to CPS to ensure the other child wasn’t a victim of a sex offense at the hands of an older individual.

Muldrow v. City of St. Louis (2024)

Here's your citation. The harm does not need to be significant or even material. "Some" harm is actionable under discrimation law.

Get Tempe PD to write the report. The officers laziness didn't help your case. Call the duty Sargent.

A complete failure to respond to you and to prosecute the case is Almost certainly malpractice. 

On these facts, you may very well have an ethics case as well - gross negligence, lack of diligence, and a failure to communicate. 

You may consider consulting with a malpractice attorney and also filing an ethics grievance against the attorney with your states agency that regulates attorneys.

To confirm, they signed twice, once under your name and once under their own name? Or is the new lease they sent you in the portal only partially executed with their electronic signature but no signature from you?

How does the car being there prove you were right? If I were having a miscarriage and needed to go to the hospital, I'd have someone else drive. Whether that be emergency services or a friend/family member. 

Did you or your cousin actually see her at the house? And if so, how? Because the answer to that might explain a lot.

And what does the lease say about cats, or is it just your father who is against them?

Are you sure the grade appeal takes "several months"? I work in higher ed (albeit not at a medical school) and appeals are usually sorted out within weeks, not months. Also, things generally move faster if an issue is kicked up the chain -- I'm assuming you've reached out to advisors, chairs, etc?

Neither of us have hired a lawyer at this point, and I am hoping to petition for it myself. I am a full time student and only work part time, so the money to file in Maricopa county is already expensive for me. Unfortunately, lawyer fees would break me.

I have 2FA. I have got intouched with everyone i can think of. Thought this  would be helpful in reality, you are just being smug.

CPS will try to find a family placement, whether that's the dad or someone else, but they could and very well may end up in foster care temporarily or permanently. You won't be able to have input into that unless you're willing to foster your kid's siblings yourself, which I understand is a huge ask.

Just my personal thoughts on this. Any harassment, intimidation, altercation, etc, directed to yourself should definitely be addressed by law enforcement. 
   As far as her planting or removing in the park that should fall to the park district or city if city managed. With enough pressure from people that use the dog park regarding this park should be issuing citations & at some point banning/trespassing her from park property. 
   My final thought is this woman seems a little “unhinged.” Sometimes when people perceive they are being “persecuted” whether real or imagined they will react in what anyone else would see as extreme. Unless filing/making a report I would not speak to anyone about this matter past or present. You never know how far a comment will carry & you don’t want to set this woman off.

The most loser thing ever.

Give them a bad review and enjoy your new car.

What? You are assuming I am in that community. Someone message me on Facebook yesterday day and said I can make it a civil case. So it is indeed possible.

You want to do it as part of the divorce.

Your lawyer, that you have hired to represent you and you alone, should be advising you on this. Especially since

we have agreed on the division of assets and debts, the relationship itself is very heated.

You're going to have to check with the county clerks and ask them, as it's going to depend on the state.

I'd imagine any law that says you owe something for someone else without a willfull agreement would be unconstitutional. I'm surprised it hasn't been challenged.

If she’s continuously making decisions that are leading her to places like this, even with your help, is this really something you want to be dealing with until are 3 kids are independent adults? You obviously care about them, even the ones that aren’t yours, and that’s good. But if this is a habit of hers, maybe it’s best their permanent housing is more stable? I’m a kid who stayed with terribly unstable parents instead of calling CPS on them and trying to get out. It does cause issues later in adulthood. They also deserve a place to call home and should not be fear living in a car again. If you take these kids in once, you’ll be expected to do it every time she falls short.

Your sense of entitlement is wild

The direct answer is a lawyer who handles incapacity cases, both to challenge the involuntary commitment and to provide professional input on whether the circumstances of that commitment actually would allow further legal action or not.

However, to be blunt, they likely will not. The legal structure of involuntary commitment provides ample recourse for incorrect - or, as you put it, malicious - application of that process. The process involves multiple evaluations by different parties, and culminates at a hearing. The patient is entitled to a lawyer (including a public defender, if they qualify) at that hearing because their liberty is at stake. Those decisions are subject to review, both medically and legally.

If, in spite of all of that, your friend was deemed incapable of making his own decisions, then it's pretty likely he was actually incapable of making his own decisions and that involuntary commitment was legally appropriate, however distressing it may have been and however much you or your friend may personally disagree.

Your friend is absolutely within his rights to review his assessment, treatment, and the course of his commitment with a lawyer now, even if he did not do so earlier. All I'm able to say, as above, is that I think he should keep his expectations in check, and that suing the hospital for their treatment of him may not be as promising as he wants.

Hire a higher education attorney immediately. Let them handle your appeal & all communication with the school.

The release, yes. If the appraisal that lot 1’s mortgage was granted with does not include the legal description of lot 2 then you should be granted that release. This squarely on the title company. If you have title insurance it’s time to call the company (First American, etc) that issued it and let them deal with their underwriter, the title company.

Yep, have him print it out, sign it, and get his signature notarized in Colorado, and then send it to you (regular mail will work, but a big UPS envelope will probably be quicker). You sign it and get your signature notarized in Texas, and then you’re all set.

No I'm not trying to find a way. The experience has bee sh*tty and for them to lie about it is what's annoying me the most... Expected better service and professionalism for a $105k car

yes ive reported to L&I, BBB, CPS, DSHS, etc.

Just let the wage claim do its thing and walk away

It’s not worth a separate lawsuit

1) file a police report & get estimates for all repairs with a quote 

2) submit a foil with the city for the project files for protection standards they had to follow and compare to your photos to what was actually performed & for your incident in their files internally 

2) file a claim directly against the City (small claims court)  & Contractor insurance company. the claim against the city is to push the contractor not the city, but you let the city do it for you.

You file against the title companies E&O insurance.

If your lease states it is allowed then it is allowed. It is up to the property owner. Oregon law states that you can only legally smoke marijuana on private property with the owners permission.  If the owner has given you permission it is legal.

Yes, and check to see when judgments expire, because they have to be renewed every few years, depending on your Jdx. and a judgement by itself may not appear; you may have to submit the judgement to the credit agencies. Not sure but check that out too.

That’s the number you use for FMLA eligibility then, you can make an FMLA complaint

They are allowed to make general business changes like merging regions and having someone else take over, but they need to have some rationale that isn’t just “legit_baller was on maternity leave” at the time

Got it. Just like a bottle of booze. That makes sense and I’m in a state that will probably never see legalization so I just assume yall are smoking that gas in the open. 🤣🤣🤣

I posted the appropriate statute. 

If the Injured Worker is wearing a large boot that would make it extremely difficult to drive- the Dr can state the IW should not drive. 

If the IW is then forced to spend 3 hours on public transport to get to their place of employment- courts do not find this as reasonable.

Not in a car. It has to be in a sealed container or else it is unlawful possession

Yeah, that would be a very strong indicator this wasn't a discriminatory decision.

You're still bound by what you signed. Regardless of what they may or may not have said, the written terms of the contract, which you should have read and understood before signing, govern.

Apparently Ohio law is super messed up in regards to same sex parentage. One would think a being on the birth certificate would be enough because plenty of guys have signed the birth certificate only to find out it's not their kid but they still have to pay child support as if they were that's messed up. 

Since it doesn't seem like she is going to cooperate with a second parent adoption at this point it looks like you are going to have to petition for parentage action. The organization Equality One may be able to recommend a lawyer or help out in some way.

This is retaliation 101 and you need documentation of everything. Get copies of all your previously verified hours, positive feedback, and any communications showing the timeline between your complaint and his letter. 

  
The fact that he verified your hours for two years then suddenly claims you didn't show up is going to be crucial evidence that this is retaliatory. Document the Title IX investigation too since it establishes the pattern of harassment that led to this mess.

I thought weed was legal in Illinois??

“I want to avoid the TN Visa option if possible” why were you even considering it in the first place then?

Yes, that is what we are told we need. As I understand it, we also need the partial lien release from the mortgage company.

Oh from my research I thought a name change record would either be with probate where a name change took place or at birthplace county clerk with the birth certificate. Where else could it be if it exists?

Countersuit for legal expenses

Our system already has pretrial hearings over motions to dismiss (which is exactly where OP is likely headed).  That's covering most of what you're asking for, but it's not free.

So let's talk about costs - Who bears the cost in your second scenario where a consumer is going after a giant corporation and the corporation runs up an enormous legal bill?

In the UK approach, the consumer gets that bill and just the fear of that happening is enough to keep people from suing large corporations there even when they have extremely valid claims.  This is rife with opportunities for abuse and ratchets hard against the individual versus the corporate entity.  That said, the UK approach does a pretty good job of screening out the type of pro se litigants you're concerned about.

In the US system, you have the opposite problem where a nut (as you put it) can pro se themselves into court on a frivolous claim and end up costing an innocent party a significant amount of money.  Here, the remedy is to have the pro se declared a frivolous litigant and barred from repeating this, but that's cold comfort to the innocent party.  Recovering costs via countersuit is always an option but these pro se litigants like in the OP example are likely judgment-proof due to lack of means.  

I'm open to other suggestions for how cost-shifting would work, but I have yet to see any proposal for handling this that doesn't flip flop us somewhere between the status quo and the UK model, both of which have pretty obvious flaws. The US model however gives people an equal starting point regardless of their finances,  and that's a pretty big selling point for anyone who isn't a giant corporation.  Frankly I'm a little surprised that the corporate lobbying arms haven't pushed back harder to mold the legal system here more to their advantage.  They've certainly done that in other areas of the law.

We have made a decision as a society, within our legal framework, that records of 5 year old offenders aren't necessarily dragged out into the public 38 years later.

Have you talked to them about this? What is their response when you told them you see a signed lease, but you haven't signed one?

I wouldn't jump to forgery yet - a lot of these electronic leasing systems automatically create renewal offers or show a lease as completed because of some online processing. 

I would request or look at a copy of the new lease/complete lease (with these new fees) and speak to your property management about the signature and electronic signature record and go from there. If you didn't sign a new lease and had no knowledge/agreement for these fees, you can likely take the stance there's no valid renewed lease and make a decision to agree with the new lease terms or end the lease as a month-to-month tenant.

OK, but if you file a foreclosure action, the fees get added into the Complaint there.

Seems that this could be corrected with a Scrivener’s affidavit. Also, do you have title insurance?

Yes but they misled me which i know is illegal. Can I go to small claims court ?

Do you report/remote directly to the HQ, or a different office/branch?

Ex: where does your direct manager work?

I’ve spoken to the court about my lawyer fees. They said it is not added to my judgement and all filing fees, legal fees and investigation fees are my responsibility

I was told (in writing) that I  would only have to wait for my materials to be reused for another project similar to mine. So I've been told several different things. I am consulting with my lawyer now, thank you for the advice, it is helpful and points me in the right direction.

He’ll either hold out and you’ll get a bigger payday or he’ll give up and pays you what he owes you. Either way seems like your best options

Yes, it would certainly be heavily redacted, if available at all. 

But it probably never existed, regardless. Who calls the police on a 5 year old?

I would think a lawyer is best bet. Hopefully you have some funds set aside for nonsense expenses. This is nuts. If you're bold, go pro se yourself and show up in court. Let the person bringing the suit talk a lot...soon enough I'm sure the incoherent babble/ argument will fall out of their mouth and you will be free.

If there's no custody order, you and the father both have the right to take the baby anywhere (domestically, getting a passport requires both parents to be present).

The shit show you caused by sending people to her home and then confronting her to tell your precious baby boy the “truth”???

172 miles is trivial for a new car. Are you trying to find a way to get out of the sale for a different reason?

They lost the lease on the building, but that doesn't mean they can't pay their employees for another week with no building if they want to give them their vacation time.  That's so confusing.

I assume OP contacted the person and said some unflattering things after the 'discovery'

If everyone involved was a minor, I’d expect the request would be declined or incredibly redacted.

Well you did have someone check on her whereabouts and then apparently: "I messaged her and gave her the opportunity to tell him where she was and that it wasn’t the hospital as she had told him previously. So I asked if she was going to tell him, or was I going to have to?" 

Leave her alone and let your ADULT son work out his messes.

You could definitely get in trouble and you should probably contact a lawyer. Admitting to having drugs to a cop is a very, very bad idea

I see in other comments you also messaged her that day. If she files she might not be successful, but she’s also not going to be laughed out of court or anything.

You still don't get to smoke a  joint in public.  Your apartment complex and their rules do not overrule state law and the parking lot is open to public view and state law says you can't smoke in public view.

No idea on the possession, but Scott's law starts at $500 + court costs as the minimum. If you haven't yet, you should look into getting an attorney.

Then you need to decide if you want to keep them or have someone buy them from you. You don’t “get your money back” when they fire you; you’re still a partial owner of the company. If you had bought stock options that required a vesting period, then those options might be worthless, but if you actually own shares, you still probably have voting rights and whatever other privileges come with the Class B share.

lol how would they fill the tank since you don't want them to add mileage to the car?

It also happened to another manager who wasn't on leave, so I don't have any reason to believe it happened as a result of being on maternity leave. Thank you

“Once you send the money we’ll send the report” did it for me but the post is deleted and I can’t go back and re-read the situation

Awesome. Someone also mentioned a lien on their home. Might look into that as well

That's straight up fraud and you got solid evidence with those text messages. Document everything - screenshot the forged signature, save all texts, any emails about the missing lease

  
In my country this would be criminal but US is different... you definitely need lawyer who handles tenant stuff. Don't pay any more fees they're adding, that's just them trying to squeeze money while hoping you don't notice the forgery

  
Also check if your state has tenant rights organization, they sometimes help with cases like this for free or cheap

Yup! Make him pay ! Im many ways ! I have a friend who , held up closing for 15 days ! And said” i don’t give a shlt about money ! Just want him to be inconvenienced!

He can just get it notarized in Colorado and mail it to you to do the same in Texas it doesnt need to be done together.

Also I’m seeing you didn’t just tell your son. You decided it was your place to message this girl about your “discoveries”

I have been employed for more than a year before taking leave and I have worked more than 1250 hours in the 12 months prior to taking leave. There are definitely more than 50 employees within a 75 mile radius of the HQ in CT but not from where I live in AL.

From your perspective. But the person who answered you may have been answering from a legal perspective. I'm not a legal person, so you'll probably say "oh someone said this and someone backed them up but the person who backed them up isn't a legal person so I'm going to ignore it as false and do my thing for my child (who's old enough to mess around with a divorced woman until she gets pregnant but is somehow still a child? Maybe people should be looking at what you're doing with your "child", maybe there's child endangerment, if your child isn't an adult being treated like a child, or some kind of emotional abuse if you're an adult treating your son like a child). The smart thing to do, if you're in doubt over what you're told in this subreddit, would be to look up the law yourself and/or consult with someone in real life, near you, who does do law stuff, because if it goes to court then the judge isn't going to go with "parent hunch was right", the judge is very likely going to follow the law and the perspective of the law.

Leave your son to deal with his own messes. Stop being a gross boy mom. He knocked up a woman who just got out of a relationship, you’re implying she’s lying  about a miscarriage and went to get an abortion (which is really good for her honestly!! She needs to get away from you guys), and are sending people to see who’s at her home and when. You are most definitely in the wrong. And instead of taking her obvious signs of discomfort seriously, you’ve come to the internet in hopes of someone else crazy telling you you’re doing the right thing. From a BPD girly: you’re having an episode and are way too obsessed with your son, this poor woman, and their business. You ARE acting like a psychotic stalker…

If this demotion was the result of the merger and was restructured for a legitimate business purpose, that would be legal. If it was done as a result of your leave, that could be problematic but job-protected leave protects your employment more so than the exact position. If you have reason/evidence to show the merger was just pretext and you were demoted for taking leave, you could speak with a local attorney and have them take a closer look.

hoo boy, scott is going to be pissed at you

Apologies, he is my child but is an adult. I don’t wanna be having any of this happening. It should’ve never gotten this far to begin with.

It did it first, he tried raising the agreed upon payment so that voids the contract so really I can just move out and not pay since there’s no contract and he can try and evict me to get me out sooner if he wants

Is there a logic or reasoning as to why the victim can't access records about themselves? Genuinely confused/curious.

(Am not a lawyer - mods feel free to delete it inappropriate)

Had you worked at least 1250 hours in the past 12 months before leave? Had you been employed for a year before taking leave? Were there at least 50 employees in a 75 mile radius of the office you reported/remoted into?

It's not always in probate courts.

Thank you. I reached out to HR about the contract as it was stored on my work email, which I no longer have access to.

He would have to be pro se. Any bar admitted attorney would be at risk of censure for even taking on this kind of frivolous shit.

I have had something similar, but not exactly the same. Regardless it's another troll out there causing shit. You're going to need a lawyer. Then you'll have to counter sue, but that doesn't mean you'll get anything from that either. Your lawyer is the best route.

Thats not how shit works man. You cant just modify the contract whenever it suits you.

I believe they were class B shares.

stating they can only refund $10k since they have spent $30k in materials already, and are suddenly claiming they cannot be used on another project.

That would be fairly consistent with what they told you.  And undoubtedly consistent with your written terms.  

This is inconsistent with another customer’s reported experience, where a full refund was issued after completion of their project following their dispute. 

But you don't have a dispute.  This is a discretionary cancelation.  

At this stage, I am planning to involve a lawyer following receipt of the itemized breakdown.

It is reasonable to consult a lawyer.  Your first conversation with that lawyer should be whether your contract seem to give you a viable position.

It's the "my child" part that isn't helpful. Is he an adult? I couldnt tell.

I'm fine with us disagreeing I'm going purely by almost 30 years of experience in dealing with this. Different states do have different laws. I would really love for all this to be true and for him to get as easy of a situation as possible. But New York State does not take your drive into consideration when they determine the location of your light duty. The reasonable determination is if you can reasonably complete the work at whatever location you are normally scheduled to punch in at. If he's wfh he should be able to do it at home. If he's wfo he is required to do it at an office.

Read the full post. 

The house was jointly owned by OP’s mother and uncle who were siblings.

When the uncle died, his wife (OP’s aunt) inherited his shares.

If it was joint owner with survivorship, then OP’s mother would have inherited OP’s uncle’s portion instead of his widow.

You would have to check with the police department wherever the school is located. The school is unlikely to have retained any of your records after that many years and even if they did have something stating you were molested, good luck getting that without a subpoena. You can always request all of your old records and see what they have, but if you want to know if something was reported to the authorities, you should check with those authorities.

1. Silence is not consent, reasonable or otherwise.  You should instead have assumed they refused your sublessee and then proceeded with disputing that.

2. If you owed the utilities, failing to receive a bill is not a legal argument against paying for them.

3. They are making an course-of-performance argument that boils down to 'both sides let it happen, so things changed, and this is the result'.  Your own representation may have a different take. 

4. No.  Those are all natural actions to take.

She claims I am harassing her. There are no grounds for this. I haven’t been in contact with her except for yesterday’s shit show.

So I'm an attorney who deals in this for a living.  You need to slow your roll.

You can do the debtor's exam.  If he doesn't cooperate, he can be jailed for contempt.   

In most states, unless it involves a bounced check, you cannot prosecute this as a criminal matter, especially as you chose the civil route first.

If you have a judgment, you can garnish his bank account, and you can lien his home if he owns it.  That's your remedies.

Do you think the local police would still have records?

Even if they did (we're talking here about pre-digital records with that transaction being a huge cliff in availability) you may not be eligible to see files about a juvenile offender.  Yes - even as the victim.

Don't lose the plot - there's no "separate case" to open- you already won a judgment, the court decided you're owed. There's no point proving he's a bad person or lied- those are not collection strategies. 

 I'm not sure what you mean by "demanding proof" he has money, that's not really how it works. Look at the formal post-judgement discovery methods and go from there. It could possibly affect this person's credit and loans, sure- it just depends. Most consumer credit reports do not include civil judgements anymore, there are too many issues with accurate reporting. Some loan application types do care about an outstanding judgment and consider that, sure. If you eventually get a lien, that could complicate a real estate deal.

Because I messaged her and gave her the opportunity to tell him where she was and that it wasn’t the hospital as she had told him previously. So I asked if she was going to tell him, or was I going to have to?

You cannot affect his credit score.  Credit bureaus stopped reporting judgments years ago due to bad information creating FCRA violations.

Sorry maybe my question was unclear: On what grounds is this person seeking a restraining order? 

What are you being accused of?

They can in certain states, and under certain circumstances, convert to criminal charges.  For example, bounced checks.  In NJ, if you chose the civil route, you waive the criminal.  In Nevada, casinos will both sue you, and file felony charges, and you will be extradited, if you bounce your marker, which is a check.

What kind of shares did you buy for your $60k?

You can file a FOIA request with the police department. I can't speculate as to whether they might still have any such records.

Most people commenting here seem to be missing that. I checked his address on Google maps. It's a shabby apartment. The guy is likely broke and filing lawsuits pro se to make a buck

Wouldn't this be if he was a remote that they were making come into work in an office if he works at the office already? And is this being required to come to the office as he always has to do the light duty that would be reasonable under the law.

If all your cousin did was drive by her home, how did she even know that happened? Did the cousin or anyone else confront or otherwise harass her for being home when she said she wasn’t?

I work for a dmv, for read ids we have a process for this exact situation. we just have people prove 3 documents showing your unofficial name that are over 20 years old. So for example an old school document or tax document thats old. Then we waive the requirement to show an official name change. Alternatively instead people just use their passport as their name/dob document instead of birth certificate plus 20 year old documents.

The difference between 10 and 21 is a non-factor.  That's a test drive.  Or moving the car.  

The difference from 21 to 171 is similar.  This is relatively trivial movements or whatever.  Yes, at the upper edges of that.  But still not substantive.  

Your remedy would have been to reject the car when it came.  At Auto Nation you probably still can.

That sounds about right.  
Do you think the local police would still have records?  
I can even give them year they would have received them.

Don't take legal advice from your opponent. You need to speak with an attorney. If you were legally married at the time of birth, you may be presumed to be the second parent with the rights and responsibilities of that role.

Fair enough. Makes sense.

Do I have legal recourse?

You have the contract you signed and whatever it says.  

The reason we have contracts is so we don't have to have arguments about who said what.  The written language dictates.

There was no monitoring. I had a hunch, and it was proven correct.

Apart from the no lawyers part, you are describing a legal proceeding. And I am not seeing how the no lawyers part makes any sense. Every person has a right to legal counsel, so I’m not seeing what benefits there are to banning lawyers from this process.

I know second parent adoption exists, but I’m wondering if it is too late for that.

I don't know that adoption is the primary concern or remedy when you'r eon the birth certificate.  But it is too late to consider adoption solutions.  Adoption doesn't overcome what a parent wants.  

That said, your position isn't just zero.  Your presence on the birth certificate is important.  And while the law is still evolving here, this isn't 1980 and courts aren't just baffled by same-sex parents.  

Looking at lawyers is the right next step.  

My wife is threatening to keep our child from me, saying I have no legal rights to her and her being biologically related trumps me being listed on the birth certificate. 

And don't take advice from your opponent.

A lawyer has to have a client which would be the landscaping company.  The only way the lawyer is making money is if you pay their bill or they reach a contingency agreement with the landscaping company. The amount would have to be worth a certain amount for the lawyers time .and skill.

Also collecting a judgement is not always easy.

Thanks for letting me know about the increase

Are you looking for records from the school or from the police? It is extremely likely that the school destroyed any such record decades ago.

Gotcha. Quick question, will this still be on his record if I sell the judgement to at least get some of my money back? I’ll admit, I’m petty, and I want him to suffer consequences

Exactly my thoughts on the matter. I appreciate you. No more dangling carrots. It's the whole shebang or nothing at all. His loss if not!

This was a one off. I’ve had no interactions with this person, nor do I care to.

u/on_island_time It looks like we need four weeks in advance for disenrolllment… And they made this announcement yesterday morning, exactly four weeks before the vacation week starts on he 29th. This all seems calculated on their part.

I haven’t had any contact with this person since the truth has come out.

If you have a judgment than your ahead of game! He will someday  have to face it. And pay . WHEN? Nobody knows but you will be notified when he needs to satisfy …. Sorry just not today! It sucks

I’m sorry, I’m still confused. The judge already granted a default judgement, and she’s already denied the defendant’s motions to dismiss and/or appeal. I’m still not following, sorry

Do you think a judge will grant a restraining order for someone observing a vehicle in a driveway from public property? 

Have you contacted this person or had an altercation?
What are you saying you have done that you're concerned merits a restraining order?

What state? This is very very state dependent and there is no 19 cut off for any state. Most people do not understand how health insurance either so i'm just trying to help

Your son should probably stop interacting with her, but you can't control that. I would ignore her unless actually served. One instance of asking someone to look in her driveway isn't, on its own, sufficient for a restraining order. However, if it's part of a bigger pattern, it could be relevant.

You are correct, points well taken. It is difficult at best to find an attorney who is willing to represent a client in wrongful discharge cases. If the court system operated as it should, without corruption, it would be more probable that one could mount a winning court case. As it is, the courts tend to favor employers and others yielding power. Many cases are decided in closed chambers and off the record. In criminal proceedings often the prosecuting attorney has the upper hand determining the conviction and punishment. In other words, trials are one or lost before they have commenced or are completed.

I was more along the lines of "here is a slam dunk (IMO but Im not a lawyer and don't know how anything works), you can go make money off this if you want". Like, is that a thing?

Every state has a different threshold for alleged conduct before a petitioner can get a restraining order. And I don’t know what that threshold is in Missouri. But in every state, the respondent (you) must be given notice of the hearing where a judge actually signs or does not sign the order. You should go to the hearing if you are served with notice, and you should take an attorney with you if you’re really concerned about this. In the meantime, avoid making any contact with the petitioner. This includes 3rd party contact like saying to your cousin or son or whoever “tell her I said blah blah blah”.

I think you need to take a step back and evaluate how your actions will be perceived by a third party. You’ve admitted here to monitoring her location and asking others to look for a specific car.

That might not be the enough for a restraining order, but it’s not nothing. If you are served with an order talk to an attorney.

To file for a judgment in New Jersey, you must use the NJ Courts JEDS system or mail documents to your local county court. The exact steps depend on your case type:Default Judgment (Uncontested): If the defendant fails to file an answer within 35 days, file a Certification of Proof and a Default Request with the Special Civil Part Office.Summary Judgment: If facts are undisputed, file a Motion for Summary Judgment at least 28 days before the return date.Foreign Judgment: Out-of-state judgments must be docketed with the Superior Court Clerk in Trenton, requiring a $35 fee and an affidavit.

The answers to this question are complex and will depend on what you signed.

You’re going to have to review any documents they provided

More often than not, there’s language forcing the sale of any equity back to them. If there’s no language for that / they don’t offer, then you’ll have to ask them to buy you out

They’ve said that they close at the end of June. That means that in the first week of July they are no longer operating. You therefore owe them absolutely nothing for this week. I’d press the issue. Would I hire a lawyer? Probably not. But I’d absolutely press the issue and if you pay with a credit card I would threaten a chargeback.

Let me see if that date was in writing. Some of this earlier news was delivered in person.

What? You gave your employer 60k. I don't even leave pen at the office.

Yes this is a good idea, assuming that it isn’t too late for the disenrollment request.

She is messaging my son and telling him that she has filed one and that once it is placed that I will probably have to move because I live so close to her. I am sitting over here laughing because there is no cause for a restraining order and I have no interest in interacting with this person. I just don’t know where she is getting off saying all of this and making it out to be like it is true. 

So I really don’t know what to think.

Are you asking if a a lawyer you hire will sue on behalf of the landscaper? Are you going to pay until the matter is resolved or do you just want to provide the boss address? What if the landscaper doesn't want to have to pay a lawyer? Is the landscaper even still interested in pursuing this matter? They will still have to be active participants. You will be paying for someone else to collect.

I will look into that contract language. 

And we pay weekly, not monthly, so it seems that we shouldn’t be roped into vacation pay.

You just need to contact the mortgage company and send it in preferably before you actually get an offer cause it can take them a week is so to verify it. I would just send it the minute you have it.

She’s getting a restraining order 

She has filed for one? You were served with the order? What exactly has happened?

An employer in KY can fire you for any reason or no reason at all. If one can mount a legal defense for wrongful discharge one may be able to win in a court of law. You mentioned some good examples such as pregnancy, race, or religion. Most low to moderate income workers haven't the ability to mount this kind of campaign, take it to court, and see it through. We are both hitting the proverbial nail on the head.

It's about a federeal employees merit based appraisal.

A free initial hearing without lawyers allowed. A basic test of factual basis. A small claims sort of process or mediation.

Medicaid in my state cuts off at 19, trust me I’ve tried and looked. 

I make 8k a year if I’m lucky, I’ve spent all morning applying to jobs so here’s to hoping. I’m trying to get into full time office work or sales to make more money + get insurance but I’m 19, despite being a incredibly hard worker despite everything, my age is in the way.

Sorry, I was skimming and missed that you were approved for unemployment. Right, nothing to appeal. 

If you were the only one let go, and especially now that they are advertising for your replacement, you should speak with an employment attorney. And save a copy of the job posting if you haven't already.

Like people using AI as a lawyer and are surprised it makes up cases to support itself.

Get a lawyer, and when this guy goes down in flames ask the judge for him to pay your legal fees.

You should be fine then. It may make sense to consult with the title company/closing attorney before he goes to jail to make sure they'd accept the document.

I think I do understand why it works this way. A poor person can go after a giant corporation and at least get a hearing, maybe. Also a giant corporation can choose to make an example of a random person if they wish. The judge will then frown upon pro se litigants or defendants by using an insane amount of process and expectations that will put a pro se party at a major disadvantage.

The only thing I can think of is to give people some basic grace in the process. The legal system is an absolute nightmare to a non lawyer and no one seems to give the slightest bit of a damn about it. Every single step is designed to extract money and bring utter pain and confusion to laypeople. 

Some nut sues you and immediately you get put on a clock and if you screw up a motion you can lose instantly or get yelled at. Not all situations should have to be full legal team and bankruptcy.

A small claims sort of initial hearing seems like a place we could start.

No other employees at that time were part of the reduction.  I did not appeal the determination because unemployment sided with me and said that I do qualify for unemployment.  I believe I could have appealed the decision but I didn't understand if I should have.  I didn't like that they said I violated a rule and couldn't provide evidence, but if I am getting unemployment I didn't know if I should go against it if that makes sense.

We have a camera pointing directly at their house (it’s our doorbell camera and they’re across the street). Since they feed on the front porch, there’s lots of videos of that. We have other cameras that show the raccoons going back and forth on our property headed to theirs. Just last night, we saw the husband filling the food bowls on their front porch while two raccoons were at his heels. They’re well aware that they’re feeding the raccoons.

Like I said, the animal control/animal warden hasn’t returned our call. I could try ODNR. I’ll also encourage other neighbors to contact the city if that’s the route we have to go.

You are correct, estranged children are still entitled to their share of the estate

It says "real property (for example, land, buildings) is a "subject included within the general power" and the general power section says "I grant my agent the power to make decisions about my financial affairs on the subjects defined in Michigan's uniform power of attorney act (MCL 556.303 through 556.316) - the same as I could do if personally present."

So I think so?

About $425 for the week.

Oh I think Reddit is exactly who you need to talk to for the many different angles this case can go and some excellent free advice offered.

It's not really clear what your situation is here, are you talking about a home appraisal? If so I'm not sure what your reference to federal collective bargaining agreements is about.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Possible Trolling**

* Your post here has been reported as a potential troll or falsified post. Please message the moderators through the link below with proof of some kind that this isn't a troll post. Your evidence will not be available for public viewing, it will only be reviewed by the moderators for the purposes substantiating your claims. 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Did you really happen

How well do you have all the neighbor's actions/feedings and any complaints documented? Your challenge with any legal action will be causation since raccoons do exist in nature and can cause damage.

I would document everything, get repair estimates, get in touch with your insurance if you need to file a claim, and get in touch with animal control and ODNR to see if they can advise/help here. You may also have a local code enforcement/health dept where you can document a complaint, if you haven't done that. Other neighbors affected should also report to move this from "standalone complaint" to "neighborhood nuisance" territory.

Damn.  I'd love to be in the back of the courtroom with a bag of popcorn when this goes to court.

How do I sell to a collection agency, and does it still end up on the defendant’s record?

Based on your other posts, this looks like a creative writing exercise. Did this really happen?

Hence a debtor’s exam. Thanks for the advice

A neighbor's poorly maintained fence failed and her livestock got out.  It was not an open range area, and my dad hit a very large hog that entered the road.  He took her to small claims court and won for vehicle damages.

She wouldn't pay.

Dad looked up her property and vehicles, and found a car that had a blue book value near the judgment.  He called the sheriff and arranged a time to meet at the neighbor's property.  Dad started winching the car onto a trailer.

The neighbor came out screaming that she was going to call the cops. Dad replied, "No need to call - he's already here."  The woman came up with a check in a real hurry - Dad and the sheriff headed to the issuing bank to make sure the check would clear.

Does your debtor have any business property that you could go after?  Computers, packaging equipment, farm equipment, whatever? Great way to hit them where they live to get money quickly.

No no, he scammed me out of 1500. It took roughly an extra 300 or so to file both with the clerk of court and the sheriff for them to carry it out

Your best bet is to either (1) sell the debt to a collection agency (if they'll buy it), or (2) figure out how to put a lien on their home or other property, if they actually own any.

The reason I say it that way is that many scammers do not actually "own" anything -- they use family or corps/LLCs to hide/protect their assets.

What’s the guys name?  Let Reddit investigate this case.

I hate to break it to you, but in most cases like this the debtor does, in fact, get to walk away with little to no consequences. I used to prosecute unregistered contractor cases and so very many of them never satisfied any judgments or fines against them, and kept running their scams.

Doesn’t matter, the judgement continues to earn interest as it remains unpaid. It only stops him from selling his property as he has to pay you first before it can be sold. You can’t seize his only residence

Why did it cost $1850 to go to small claims? It's only about $100 to file, and you don't need an attorney.

You can only put a lien on property that the debtor owns.

Your friend should Google California's ABC contractor test. I don't pretend to be an expert on applying that test, but I'd be shocked if this isn't a misclassified employee.

Can you submit a disenrollment request for the final day of June? Then your last two weeks with the center are the last two weeks of June and the whole question about July becomes moot.

You can report this to the police if you want, but given the small amount involved it will be very low priority and unlikely to result in any serious charges against the person.  Unfortunately, that's just how it goes with these sorts of things.

Private citizens can't "open a criminal case" -- that's the job of the police.

Mini tort covers up to $3k now, previously was $1k until 2020. So OP would be responsible for that person's deductible. And if the other driver doesn't have collison coverage then they'll make the claim with OP's insurance for they mini tort. 

If OP doesn't have the mini tort liability coverage though, OP will be personally responsible for those damages.

Does the POA allow you sell the property on his behalf?

Your employer is allowed to terminate you for violating workplace standards that other employees have also violated. "But they did it first" is not a viable legal argument against termination. Move on.

Does anyone know if a judgment to pay a debt by a creditor would have the same useless result?

You will need to contact your homeowner's insurance company. Any possible increase in coverage will be less than the cost of an attorney to defend this BS lawsuit. It will still cost you tens of thousands depending on where you live to have the attorney defend the suit. The attorney will likely do defense on an hourly basis

They said that the daycare closes permanently in June but they want you to pay the teachers vacation in July? If this is the case then I would be telling them no and fight this out. You guys were given a date that they were closing in writing, you aren’t responsible to pay anything beyond that date.

As an FYI, you aren't being sued, yet at least, the person is just represented by an attorney for the claim, no real concern about that. 

As for their car, as the other person noted and you probably know, MI is a no fault state, but if they didn't have collision coverage, then their insurance can't pay for their claim and they can make a claim with your insurance for up to $3k for their damages, as long as you have the limited property damage liability coverage, if you don't, you and your son will be personally liable for those damages up to $3k, as long as your son is covered here. 

Or you are responsible for their deductible in the same manner. 

Really unless your insurance doesn't come through for you, don't worry about this.

Maybe. Only other thing I can see happening is he files for defamation, but I’ve saved every single text exchange and social media message, so unless I say “he killed my dog” he’s got nothing

My question though is if legally she would be considered an IC if she is required to have certain hours as dictated by the company. Is she legally allowed to ask for more breaks? That’s the real issue here, as she is working 12 hour days and has other preparation work she has to do outside of scheduled rehearsals

This is probably true. I’ll give updates once we get a second opinion from the Mazda dealership

It’s not uncommon for parents to pay for a full month despite there being no care for things like week-long holiday breaks.  What does your contract state?  And what does your contract state about unenrollment?  

You’re free to look into the deposit issue but your priority should be finding new care.  In many areas, options are very limited until the child is fully toilet-trained.

How much money is this?

When I spoke to the police officer a few days after on the 28th, he just had me explain the situation to him and then said all he could do was make a police report but if I wanted to press charges or anything else I would have to go down to the office. He said “If you want you can go down to the office to press charges and we’ll pick him up”

I think I agree. I understand that sometimes problems happen and my mom probably should’ve had the car looked at more than just a couple of home depot guys looking at the check engine light, but the events just seem weird to me that they wouldn’t include them switching one and four on the paperwork. I think the second opinion will clear everything up since it’ll be from a Mazda dealership.

Yes, it’s a small music performance company. The contract states that she is an independent contractor, and her payment as a fee is paid in a lump sum at the end of the engagement. It is unclear if taxes will be taken out or not, because the contract references that no deductions will be made except for necessary taxes, though in my experienced ICs don’t have taxes taken out. Also, parts of the document are titled “agreement to employment and compensation”, I don’t know what weight that terminology holds though.

Like you said - the best way to get back at him is to start spreading that word. Maybe he will want to stop that from happening. I doubt you get the money any other way.

What where the determinations/findings of their investigation?

I understand the frustration and absurdity of it all, but I don't see a viable lawsuit and "stress and suicidal ideation;" that is not something you can recover here. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress claims require much, much more beyond poor customer service/billing/contract issues. 

You would need to show the bank breached a legal duty, your actual monetary damages caused directly by the breach and proof of those. Assuming you even find an attorney willing to take this on, which I don't think you will, it's going to cost you a lot to pursue this. The bank's position is likely going to be the trial payment plan required exact payments, the written agreement state the required amount, and the borrower is responsible for ensuring payments match. Whether that all is fair is very different question than "is it legally actionable". 

You may want to work with a local attorney for a few hours to see if they can help you with getting this escalated and reinstated; that's a more realistic goal than a lawsuit against the bank. They know how to frame these disputes to force a better review and better outcome. You'd want to discuss this with an attorney who handles foreclosure or consumer/finance matters.

Hey OP. What's your income situation? Maybe we can get find you a low-cost insurance

Shit, sorry I meant property he lives in

Hm, for a lien, does that include a property they own? I’ve done some digging into his job, and the part about how much he earns isn’t a lie, because it was signed by his boss, so that tells me that he probably doesn’t own other properties

Are you an employment lawyer? Extended leaves are routinely covered as reasonable accommodations under the ADA. Almost everything you said was wrong.

Another example of why you don't buy homes or go in debt with people you're not married to... Either you're on the deed, or you're not nothing.

Doesn’t really matter if the guy in question sees it differently and decides to act on it. People like that don’t think logically like you’re doing.

Excellent points you bring out.  So sad this person was taken advantage.   It happens all the time.  I hope something works out for them.

Everyone who gets scammed wishes they weren't scammed. No offense, but your situation isn't special or worse than anyone else's who gets scammed.

You actually made it worse by continuing to pursue this and spending 2k in court costs.

And idk how--if you knew this person even slightly--you thought you'd get 1.5k back from someone like this. Just ain't happening.

Stop sinking your time and energy into this is all I can say. You will likely get nothing ever and just continue to waste money.

Yeah you can. Subpeona the party, ask the sheriff to reprimand them, file the lawsuit again and ask.

Minimum in GA is 18 to serve alcohol. So no the 16 year old serving it in a restaurant is not legal. 

I believe the Georgia department of Revenue-Alcohol division enforces it. I’m not certain if they are the correct ones to report it to, but I imagine they would point you in the right direction if you contact them.

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

I'm having a hard time imagining that she's properly classified as a contractor under California law. Is the company she's working for a music performance company of some kind (e.g., a symphony)?

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

Consider an anti-SLAPP action:

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

**Personal Attack or Otherwise In Poor Taste**

Your comment has been removed because it contains a personal attack or is otherwise a tasteless comment.  Please review the following rules and focus on answering legal questions instead of insulting others.

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

You absolutely need to reach out to an employment attorney. As well file a violation notice with the US labor department.

This might not be legal,  did the woman that that is renting a room , sign a lease with the owner?  Usually only the people listed on lease are allowed to live there ( -  minor children),   I don’t know what rents run in Massachusetts, but $1300 sounds high for a room,  your sister might be paying a good portion of her rent

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**Speculative, Anecdotal, Simplistic, Off Topic, or Generally Unhelpful**

Your comment has been removed because it is one or more of the following: speculative, anecdotal, simplistic, generally unhelpful, and/or off-topic.  All comments that do not answer the OPs legal question are off topic. Please review the following rules before commenting further: 

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

*Your post may have been removed for the following reason(s):*

**No Clear Legal Question**

Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is.  Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. **Do not make a second post.**

*Please read our subreddit rules.  If, after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, message the moderators.* **Do not make a second post or comment.**

*Do not reach out to a moderator personally, and do not reply to this message as a comment.*

You need to file a lien on their property if they own any, that’s probably the only way this is going to stick. The good thing is, it accrues simple interest. The bad thing is, they may never pay you back or may try to get you to settle once they are motivated to get the judgement off their credit/deed.

Agree with the person who suggested you get intouch with animal welfare. Not only is the bird being neglected, but the Fl heat is not safe. 

In the wild they are in the heat but have the opportunity to bathe and get in the shade. A caged bird is in danger when temperatures get to 90+

Counter sue for legal damages.  This dude **is** looking to make a quick buck, have a lawyer send a quick letter and I'd bet he'll drop it.  If he defaulted on the home over 3 owners ago, he's not got a leg to stand upon.  Hopefully a sharp letter will end the problem and he'll hush his butt and go away.

Just mind your own business!

Since the principal and vice-principal were already involved, I suggest that you go directly to the school board. The principal and vice-principal will be too busy trying to cover their prior actions. Request a meeting with the school board. This situation needs to be escalated. There’s no reason to meet with the perpetrators before going to the school board. Allow the board to decide which members are able to meet with you and your husband. Do not give the principal/school teachers advance notice because you need them to be caught off guard.

$15 if this is your first offense even a public defender should be able to plea this down to fines, restitution maybe a little community service in exchange for expungement of your record. Better yet a deferred adjudication by you pleading guilty. Upon successfully completing all the guide lines like paying fines, restitution, community service, classes etc......your guilty plea is withdrawn and the charges are dismissed before the conviction hits your record

Call your local landlord tenant consumer group somewhere in yoru state and see what the hoops he has to jump through are, and make him do that. If he thinks you’ll actually be out in 3 days, that means probably he needs a a court order, which means you’ll have an opportunity to talk to a judge. Your theory about paying less is legally frivolous; neither of you can unilaterally modify the contract.

Consult a lawyer, this should be an easy motion to dismiss.  Maybe find a young hungry one looking to do a capped fee.

Holy Tort Reform Example #1, Batman!

"He must have saw the wallet in my car, because he proceeded to open my door and get in my car."

"I was parked just barely out of view, but my door is visible and does show him opening the door and getting into the car and so on."

It's very clearly implied that the door was left unlocked.

NAL, But Since she died intestate (without a will) the company needs to follow CA law on deaths without a will as you stated spouse (if she had one which she didn’t), kids, etc. I’d have a lawyer send them a letter to follow the law and ignore the attempted fraud by the boyfriend, they may just need you to get a correctly updated death certificate from the vital records office but otherwise what you and your sibling do with the funds after would depend entirely on how you felt about his attempted fraud to take it all for himself.

Personally I wouldn’t have given anything to the boyfriend after he tried that and created this whole mess, But that might be out of hurt rather than what’s right, idk.

Great, I should’ve demanded the contract before giving him any money. Lesson learned on that I guess.

Does any of it factor in that I have proof in the text that he said certain people would work on the project, but then those “certain people” said they never met him? For context, he wanted investments for a film, and he claimed certain actors, actresses, and crew would work on it, including myself. When I reached out to those members, at best they said this was the first they heard about the project in years, at worst, they never even heard of the guy.

Has to be 18 to serve alcool, the exeception where minors cananipulate alcool arr like in grocery while stocking

I'm very sorry for your loss., and so sorry it sounds like it was handled insensitively by the police.  

There's a lot of information here. Can you summarize what kind of action you'd like to take and/or what kind of result you'd like to see?

Were other employees also let go as part of the reduction? Did you appeal the unemployment determination?

It’s not illegal for them to report it, just unlikely that law enforcement will take any action.

Why should we expect the youth to shoulder the burden of what ourselves and our parents should have done?

So first off, I omitted the actual cost. He scammed me out of 1.5k, and the additional court costs have now been 1850. The reason I’m dead set on this is the same reason he roped me in: I thought he was my friend, and we’ve worked on projects together in the past. He wanted me to invest in this other project, and he also wanted me to work on it with him. It was only after the investment when he started fucking up on the details, and I realized he duped me

How would you accomplish this exactly? What policy would deliver this result for you? I get what you are looking for but I don't think that you have thought through why our system works this way or what you might lose by changing it.

That sounds insane honestly. If he hasn't owned the house in over 10 years and there have been multiple owners since, I'd be wondering why he's coming after you too. 

Hopefully it's one of those lawsuits that sounds scary on paper but goes nowhere once a lawyer gets involved. Did title insurance say why they denied the claim?

Monthly debtors examinations. Be a PITA.

With not a lot of context. I'm not a lawyer but I can speak to the police report side of it. No PD would file a criminal report for this, they might take an information only but not criminal. A DA would never accept this either. We get people like this all the time trying to put someone in jail when they willingly gave money to them for any random reason, including “investing”.

Investing, donating, giving or whatever you want to call it is willingly handing over money to someone else. If everyone that was given money for multiple reasons, including “investing” and never delivered was prosecuted there would be a lot of business people and normal people in jail. Investment firms, stock traders, angle investors, startups etc wouldn't exist. You handed over cash, expected a “return” and didn't get it. Lesson learned the hard way. 

Now if you had a signed contract for something like repairing a roof, the guy takes your money and runs off without completing the work, then you have a criminal case.

Can you not read? 

Quote me where in the post my question is answered about how this person got in the car

And how is it determined who the innocent person is?

If a judge is presented with multiple examples of frivolous lawsuits he may fine or threaten to fine or jail someone in some states. So maybe if the lawyer just sends him a letter letting him know that his claim might disappear. If he has been trying this on previous owners that is.

I already filed though? I’m confused

We all love you 💙 

That was fkn great

Lol give it up! Dude makes $200 a WEEK and you're spending all this time trying to claw back less than 2k? Huh? I don't mean this in a rude way, but let it go. So much better things to do with your time/life.

Seems like you probably got scammed for like 1k and made it cost more by trying to go to court. Think of it as a 1k lesson in being more careful in what you do w your money. Sidenote: how did a man making $200 a week get you to give him a grand??

NAL. My understanding is that a house os foreclosed on. It is then sold according to local procedure. If the money from the sale is more than the bank is owed, the extra will go back to the non-paying ex-owner.

So Mr Plaintiff seems to think the sale should have brought in a better price?

File judgment against whom ever , and when/if they  get money or buy /sell house , it needs to be addressed! You will get $ someday!

Fair. But he also doesn’t get to walk away without consequences, especially when I’m not the only one he’s done this to, and he’s done even worse

For only a thousand you are wasting your time - look at all the time you've put in so far with zero return.  Sorry it's a tough life lesson.  Move on and be more cautious in the future and save yourself from future losses.

Can you not read or ?

Is there anything she can do here legally, if it comes to that?

If she is properly classified as an independent contractor, then there's nothing she can do. ICs aren't guaranteed a minimum wage.

I think it was a typo and they meant “a legal judgment” instead of an “illegal judgment.”

That’s really good to hear

Ah. Thank you. I need to find his credit bureau though. Debtor’s exam it is

Sorry that was supposed to say legal judgment. That's what I was saying. You should be able to apply it to his credit bureau. You should check into what is required to have it put on his credit bureau. And then send him a notification that he if he doesn't pay you with in 30 days you will have it reported to his credit bureau which I believe it stays on there for 7 years.

Mutual combat between drunk people isn't typically something the police or prosecutors are interested in pursuing.

Not a lawyer- but I would get one and counter sue to cover your costs.

The company policy vaguely states that they may or may not report to law enforcement. But I’m hoping they don’t.

Tell them as long as they are inventing ridiculous demands that will never happen, you’re demanding all of your money back and you keep the car.

Ah that makes for a way clearer explanation of what title insurance actually is. Thank you.

I honestly have no clue because I haven’t had any communication with this business since I left in 2022. If they reactivated the profile they must have known that the money would end up with me but as far as I’m aware my profile was never deactivated 😭

I appreciate you saying so. Wishing the same to you. Also your username is great

I guarantee you he’s a sovereign citizen on crack.

If possible you should ask the owners in between you and him to see if hes done this before.

Yeah, and I was thinking on opening up a separate criminal case. Clearly, based on the responses, that’s a bad idea.

He owes me over 1000 dollars, nearly 2000 after court costs.

How is the judgement illegal?

I don’t know what he owns so I’m leaning towards the debtor’s exam

Yes, call the police so this loser knows what the repercussions are if he does tear the place apart. What a jerk this guy is.

I had a friend fail his drug test, he was a good employee. His boss still gave him a good recommendation for the next job, it was what it was.

You didn't win in criminal court, you won in small claims court.

I was hoping for this but since it’s mass spec they’ll be able to see a difference between methamphetamines vs amphetamines

Okay, you don't say how much money he owes you. This can and will make a difference. This is illegal judgment for money owed so I would make that it shows up on his credit bureau. Do you know if he owns any property, a lien on us house car etc.

For which part? The stuff about the credit score?

In Missouri unjust enrichment claims have a 5 year limitation period, but your lawyer will tell you that.

Just to clarify, your photo didnt get him fired, him bringing a gun into the store did.

Assuming I get fired, would this info be accessible to future employers? A major concern of mine is if it will screw up my ability to get a new job after all is said and done

I am trying to get paid. What I described is if all other avenues fail, and from what I’m being told, that is where it’s leading

A lot of states have filial piety/responsibility laws, but PA will at least sometimes actually enforce them.

At this point you need to talk to your insurance company. File a claim with your insurance company.

You are at the hands of your insurance company about them covering this claim though. They may decide to deny the claim depending on your son’s living situation and also with his suspended license. The will investigate where your son was living and for how long he lived at home. 

I suggest you file the claim. Use the time that your insurance company is deciding on what to do about the claim, represent you or deny the claim, to research a lawyer for yourself. 

Use the time to prepare yourself. Find a lawyer that will hopefully give you a free consultation.

What you are saying is actually the case. 

It’s not about if it is “legitimate” or not, it’s about whether it is something you are insured against. 

Title insurance usually covers against stuff like liens, fraud, boundary issues, and other things related to your legal ownership of the property.

If the crazy guy was trying to say that he still had some legal ownership of the property then the title insurance would probably step in, but there point out that he’s clearly stating that OP is the owner.

Again, you are posting something OP didn't state.

a child or a spouse can order it for him or even a parent

The others are right, you're going to need a lawyer to firmly shut the door on this, so just a suggestion, check with your employer to see if they cover basic legal services as an employee benefit.  A lot don't, but some do.

My wife's former employer did and we used it during our purchase a few years back.  

Something this simple ought to be covered under a basic plan like that.

You will have to get witnesses that know him make statements that he is one and the same. Order a birth certificate on his behalf then file for a official name change to his new name and obtain a social Security card under the new name. This is provided he is in the United States.

Their homeowners insurance should definitely be looped in for everyone’s protection.

In addition to assets, I’m thinking on demanding proof that he has the money he said he had, because if not, then that means he lied to a judge, in court.

Stick to the judgment.  This isn't going to get you anywhere, and it's not going to lead to a criminal charge.

The more you look at this as a personal debt between two people and the less you view it as your personal crusade, the less likely you are to put your foot in your mouth in court.

Not to argue, just curious, but how would this be unjust enrichment? If the improvements improved the property's value, then OP did buy the house for a higher price than they would have without those improvements.

It's irrelevant whether there is anything obvious that would lead the seller to believe the odometer was rolled back. The *title was branded not actual mileage* when the seller received it. They have no defense for not disclosing it.

I don't disagree, but I was speaking generally.

You have to file as a creditor or something.

Are you engaging in a contest of puffery?  Or are you trying to get paid?  

Because you describe your goal as one but then govern yourself based on the other.

I expect to not be subject to the whims of a nut to drag an innocent person through mud and expense using the legal system as a hammer to cause pain with no real consequence or recourse.

That’s horrible, I’m so sorry to hear about what you and your mom have gone through. I hope something good comes your way and you can both find some relief soon. There always has to be some kind of forward I guess right?

Thanks for the well wishes. I truly hope you have some better years to come.

So, what would you recommend if they did their “inviestigarion” and still took not accountability, they have put my further in debt now that it’s been cancelled. It was literally off by $3.51, and they won’t reinstate it because of the “missed payment”. I find it ridiculous that they think it’s okay to say it’s my fault, despite the fact that the “missed payment” was only a couple bucks short (because THEY gave me that amount, i didn’t just make it up??), and it was Marchs payment that was ‘missed’ - yet when I called to make the second trial payment in April, why did they not tell me anything about the March payment being incorrect?? Why would they not tell me then that I’m at risk for it being cancelled? I want to sue for the stress and literal suicidal ideation I’ve been having due to all of this. I just want to know how to get a settlement for all of this, it isn’t fair for them to treat people who are trying their best and going ABOVE and beyond to make sure they pay the right amount, it’s absolutely ABSURD.

If you haven't charged the original decree,  do exactly what it says,  divide the driving.  Here's the trick:  YOU pick them up to start your time.  Then he comes to get them to start his time. The parent *starting* time always picks up.  Meeting in the middle often has one person angrily waiting. This is what my judges do and it works a treat. 

I do agree with others that usually when a parent unilaterally moves far away they should be responsible for transportation.  But you don't have time to go back to court, and it sounds like the court knew this could happen. 

Realize that you'll have to go get them at the end as well, because you're starting your time. BUT he will have to get them to start his time again. This is an equal division of transportation. 

Good luck!

He can have a different story. Not gonna matter when I show the texts and exactly what he said

This isn’t a righteous claim.

Building on this: you really should contact the Tenant Hotline in the city of Philadelphia to find out what your rights are. You may be eligible for repayment of previous rent, you may be eligible for help moving assistance (because I'm going to guess you don't want to be near this guy anymore) and the landlord himself is also in peril for potential fines and other penalties.

You seem to be correct that without the rental license from L&I that he cannot pursue evictions. But he can certainly make your life harder and you engaging in self-help Solutions is not going to improve the relationship and it may in fact expose you to legal issues of your own.

NAL

Nothing is "going to happen."  But PA is known to be more aggressive with Medicaid recovery than other states.  It's something to be aware of, and if you think your parent might need Medicaid, it might be worth considering a life insurance policy.

Without an innocent person spending time and money on maliciousness?

Because you wrote him a check.  And he’s going to have a different story than you.  

Sure.  This perhaps could be treated as criminal by a motivated prosecutor.  It isn’t going to be.

Okay then. At the very least, I’m never going to file a satisfaction form. From what I’ve heard, a unsatisfied judgement will screw him over with credit and loans.

And I’m gonna make sure everyone that we both know knows about this so they don’t work with him again

You say he has no legal recourse and yet here this guy is using legal methods to harass someone. The guy is getting a form of recourse just by taking his frustrations out on an innocent person.

Does he have a signed invoice of you approving the work with the 3k over coverage amount or just a signed invoice with the deductible amount owed

You’re reading the bombastic parts of the Philadelphia landlord tenant advice, without reading the cautions that immediately follow like “don’t stop paying rent solely because landlord doesn’t have a license,” and “pay rent into escrow, don’t just stop paying.”

The problem with making a fight is then you have a fight. This is ending without drama unless you inject drama into it.  And you’re to a real extent overstating your position in the drama you’re thinking about making.

There is nothing in OP's post that states what you downvoted me for.

You already own the dirt. Florida defaults joint titles like yours to a tenancy in common: “a … conveyance … to two or more shall create a tenancy in common” (§ 689.15, Fla. Stat.). He cannot drop your name from the deed without your signature, but the construction lender can sue each signer for the whole debt—so stepping off the title while staying on the note would leave you with liability and no asset. Courts make cotenants credit one another for mortgage, tax, and repair payments (Lupo v. Lawson; Babb v. Babb), so if he pays more he just builds a reimbursable claim, not sole ownership. Tell him any deed discussion waits until (i) the loan is refinanced into his name only or (ii) he buys out your share at fair value; otherwise keep your name right where it is.

Just fyi. YOU didnt ruin the guys life. People make their own choices. And frankly, if you want to go around treating guns like toys, you shouldnt have access to them.

Your best bet is to consult an employment attorney as quickly as possible. It's possible that you could get more through a lawsuit. But it's also possible if you turn this down, you get nothing given you didn't have fmla filed or any sort of ADA accommodations. A lawyer will be able to provide the best advice.

How is there no criminal case? The guy scammed me

telling them beforehand ruins the entire point of recording for safety. if you give them a heads up, they will just watch what they say and you lose the honest reaction you were fishing for. talk to a lawyer in your state before playing your cards because once you tip them off, you do not get to walk that back.

You have learned an expensive life lesson. You do all the work to win your case and find out the real issue is collecting. Your opponent is having the last laugh because you are doing all the work to win and they dont have to do anything. Find a bank account? They’ll close it. Garnish their wages? New job.  Zero percent chance this will be criminal; what crime have they committed? I expect no prosecutor charge someone over a civil matter. If your opponent ever really fights this by taking it to a higher court; one defense your opponent will have is that everyone knows investments are not guaranteed to return anything; it’s a risk you took in order to gain something. Good luck, and if you find yourself in this situation again, research their assets and have a collection plan in place when you win. Get the judge to include as many punitive provisions as you can persuade them to add.

There’s no criminal case here.  

Some sort of public campaign is legal but probably not wise.  Not the least of which in that it doesn’t seem to increase the odds for your being paid.  

The judgment debtor exam makes a lot more sense.

Sounds like the engine already had a misfire. As you would check a misfire by changing around sparkplugs. If that failed it would be new injectors and new plugs all around. I guess if the shop put the spark wires on in the wrong order after the plug swap, they could potentially be liable for something. But the engine would've barely ran when leaving the shop so that's very unlikely.

You won, and that is about all you get.  Its a story as old as time.

The wife won a 200k legal dispute with a former employer and collected zero (Florida), so it happens to all of us.  Our justice system is lacking in justice.

However can I withhold money for the utilities which are under his name?

No.

They offloaded a dog to you and wants free babysitting?

They can take a walk *with* you if the parents are also there, and if you’re up for it

The other driver was insured, there is a police report, my son does live with me and is 27 and until just a few weeks before the accident his license was suspended (found out at accident it was still suspended)  so he does not have his own insurance and yes I own the vehicle. I got a letter in the mail from the other parties attorney stating they were suing me me for damages and injury.

probably most of the people who read or hear her messages think "oh its the crazy lady again" and their minds move on
I agree that if she physically gets near, that is reason to rake action

Gotcha. After what he said in the last hearing, he’s making it sound like he’s broke, and yet at the same time he told the judge he can pay me back. In addition to assets, I’m thinking on demanding proof that he has the money he said he had, because if not, then that means he lied to a judge, in court.

Sorry, I worded that poorly. What I meant was that I’m planning on filing the report to open a separate case if the exam doesn’t pan out.

Yeah, I understand that I got to stick to the facts. Luckily, I already have proof in the text messages that he lied multiple times, as well as court documents, so if he does claim defamation, I have that all on standby. Going even further, if he really is as broke as he claims, he can’t afford to initiate a lawsuit anyway.

One more thing: from what I heard, as long as money judgements are active and not satisfied, it will affect him financially through credit scores and loans. Is this true?

It would have been stated directly on the title the seller had in-hand.