Q: Why is conditional processing of a sorted array faster than of an unsorted array?

In this C++ code, sorting the data (before the timed region) makes the primary loop ~6x faster:

- Without , the code runs in 11.54 seconds.

- With the sorted data, the code runs in 1.93 seconds.

(Sorting itself takes more time than this one pass over the array, so it's not actually worth doing if we needed to calculate this for an unknown array.)

Initially, I thought this might be just a language or compiler anomaly, so I tried Java:

With a similar but less extreme result.

My first thought was that sorting brings the data into the cache, but that's silly because the array was just generated.

- What is going on?

- Why is processing a sorted array faster than processing an unsorted array?

The code is summing up some independent terms, so the order should not matter.

Related / follow-up Q&As with more modern C++ compilers

- Why is processing an unsorted array the same speed as processing a sorted array with modern x86-64 clang? - modern C++ compilers auto-vectorize the loop, especially when SSE4.1 or AVX2 is available.  This avoids any data-dependent branching so performance isn't data-dependent.

- gcc optimization flag -O3 makes code slower than -O2 - branchless scalar with  can result in a longer dependency chain (especially when GCC chooses poorly), creating a latency bottleneck that makes it slower than branchy asm for the sorted case.

Q: How do I undo the most recent local commits in Git?

I accidentally committed the wrong files to Git but haven't pushed the commit to the server yet.

How do I undo those commits from the local repository?

Q: How do I delete a Git branch locally and remotely?

Failed Attempts to Delete a Remote Branch:

How do I properly delete the  branch both locally and remotely?

Q: What is the difference between 'git pull' and 'git fetch'?

What are the differences between  and ?

Q: What does the "yield" keyword do in Python?

What functionality does the  keyword in Python provide?

For example, I'm trying to understand this code1:

And this is the caller:

What happens when the method  is called?
Is a list returned? A single element? Is it called again? When will subsequent calls stop?

1. This piece of code was written by Jochen Schulz (jrschulz), who made a great Python library for metric spaces. This is the link to the complete source: Module mspace.

Q: How can I remove a specific item from an array in JavaScript?

How do I remove a specific value from an array? Something like:

Constraints: I have to use core JavaScript. Frameworks are not allowed.

Q: How can I rename a local Git branch?

How can I rename a local branch which has not yet been pushed to a remote repository?

Related:

- Rename master branch for both local and remote Git repositories

- How do I rename both a Git local and remote branch name?

Q: Which JSON content type do I use?

There are many "standards" for the JSON content type:

Which one do I use, and where? I assume security and browser support issues are a factor.

Related: What MIME type if JSON is being returned by a REST API?

Q: How do I undo 'git add' before commit?

I mistakenly added files to Git using the command:

I have not yet run . How do I undo this so that these changes will not be included in the commit?

Q: What is the '-->' operator in C/C++?

After reading Hidden Features and Dark Corners of C++/STL on , I was completely surprised that the following snippet compiled and worked in both Visual Studio 2008 and G++ 4.4. I would assume this is also valid C since it works in GCC as well.

Here's the code:

Output:

Where is this defined in the standard, and where has it come from?

Q: How do I force "git pull" to overwrite local files?

How do I force an overwrite of local files on a ? My local repository contains a file of the same filename as on the server.

error: Untracked working tree file 'example.txt' would be overwritten by merge

Q: Can comments be used in JSON?

Can I use comments inside a JSON file? If so, how?

Q: What and where are the stack and heap?

- What are the stack and heap?

- Where are they located physically in a computer's memory?

- To what extent are they controlled by the OS or language run-time?

- What is their scope?

- What determines their sizes?

- What makes one faster?

Q: Why does HTML think “chucknorris” is a color?

Why do certain random strings produce colors when entered as background colors in HTML?

For example,  produces a red background:







Conversely,   produces a yellow background:







This holds true across various browsers and platforms. What’s going on here?

Q: How can I check out a remote Git branch?

How do I check out the remote  branch? I can see it with . I tried:

- , which does nothing

-  gives

Q: How do I check if an element is hidden in jQuery?

How do I toggle the visibility of an element using  , , or ?

How do I test if an element is  or ?

Q: How do I make Git forget about a file that was tracked, but is now in .gitignore?

I put a file that was previously being tracked by Git onto the  list. However, the file still shows up in  after it is edited. How do I force Git to completely forget the file?

Q: What does "use strict" do in JavaScript, and what is the reasoning behind it?

Recently, I ran some of my JavaScript code through Crockford's JSLint, and it gave the following error:

Problem at line 1 character 1: Missing "use strict" statement.

Doing some searching, I realized that some people add  into their JavaScript code. Once I added the statement, the error stopped appearing. Unfortunately, Google did not reveal much of the history behind this string statement. Certainly it must have something to do with how the JavaScript is interpreted by the browser, but I have no idea what the effect would be.

So what is  all about, what does it imply, and is it still relevant?

Do any of the current browsers respond to the  string or is it for future use?

Q: What does if __name__ == "__main__": do?

What does this do, and why should one include the  statement?

If you are trying to close a question where someone should be using this idiom and isn't, consider closing as a duplicate of Why is Python running my module when I import it, and how do I stop it? instead. For questions where someone simply hasn't called any functions, or incorrectly expects a function named  to be used as an entry point automatically, use Why doesn't the main() function run when I start a Python script? Where does the script start running?.

Q: How do I remove local (untracked) files from the current Git working tree?

How do I delete untracked local files from the current working tree?

Q: Does Python have a ternary conditional operator?

Is there a ternary conditional operator in Python?

Q: Is Java "pass-by-reference" or "pass-by-value"?

I always thought Java uses pass-by-reference. However, I read a blog post which claims that Java uses pass-by-value. I don't think I understand the distinction the author is making.

What is the explanation?

Q: Find all files containing a specific text (string) on Linux

How do I find all files containing a specific string of text within their file contents?

The following doesn't work. It seems to display every single file in the system.

Q: How do I redirect to another webpage?

How can I redirect the user from one page to another using jQuery or pure JavaScript?

Q: var functionName = function() {} vs function functionName() {}

I've recently started maintaining someone else's JavaScript code. I'm fixing bugs, adding features and also trying to tidy up the code and make it more consistent.

The previous developer used two ways of declaring functions and I can't work out if there is a reason behind it or not.

The two ways are:

And,

What are the reasons for using these two different methods and what are the pros and cons of each? Is there anything that can be done with one method that can't be done with the other?

Q: How to modify existing, unpushed commit messages?

I wrote the wrong thing in a commit message.

How can I change the message? The commit has not been pushed yet.

Q: Why is subtracting these two epoch-milli Times (in year 1927) giving a strange result?

If I run the following program, which parses two date strings referencing times 1 second apart and compares them:

The output is:

Why is , not  (as I would expect from the one-second difference in the times), but ?

If I change the dates to times 1 second later:

Then  will be .

Java version:

Q: How do JavaScript closures work?

How would you explain JavaScript closures to someone with a knowledge of the concepts they consist of (for example functions, variables and the like), but does not understand closures themselves?

I have seen the Scheme example given on Wikipedia, but unfortunately it did not help.

Q: How do I revert a Git repository to a previous commit?

How do I revert from my current state to a snapshot made on a certain commit?

If I do , then I get the following output:

How do I revert to the commit from November 3, i.e. commit ?

Q: What is the difference between String and string in C#?

What are the differences between these two, and which one should I use?

Q: How do I remove a property from a JavaScript object?

Given an object:

How do I remove the property  to end up with the following ?

Q: What are metaclasses in Python?

What are metaclasses? What are they used for?

Q: How to check whether a string contains a substring in JavaScript?

Usually I would expect a  method, but there doesn't seem to be one. 

What is a reasonable way to check for this?

Q: How do I check whether a file exists without exceptions?

How do I check whether a file exists or not, without using the  statement?

Q: How do I merge two dictionaries in a single expression in Python?

I want to merge two dictionaries into a new dictionary.

Whenever a key  is present in both dictionaries, only the value  should be kept.

Q: How do I change the URI (URL) for a remote Git repository?

I have a repo (origin) on a USB key that I cloned on my hard drive (local). I moved "origin" to a NAS and successfully tested cloning it from here.

I would like to know if I can change the URI of "origin" in the settings of "local" so it will now pull from the NAS, and not from the USB key.

For now, I can see two solutions:

- 

push everything to the USB origin, and copy it to the NAS again (implies a lot of work due to new commits to NAS origin);

- 

add a new remote to "local" and delete the old one (I fear I'll break my history).

Q: Move the most recent commit(s) to a new branch with Git

How do I move my recent commits on  to a new branch, and reset master to before those commits were made? e.g. From this:

To this:

Q: How do I return the response from an asynchronous call?

How do I return the response/result from a function  that makes an asynchronous request?

I am trying to return the value from the callback, as well as assigning the result to a local variable inside the function and returning that one, but none of those ways actually return the response — they all return  or whatever the initial value of the variable  is.

Example of an asynchronous function that accepts a callback (using jQuery's  function):

Example using Node.js:

Example using the  block of a promise:

Q: How do I discard unstaged changes in Git?

How do I discard changes in my working copy that are not in the index?

Q: What is the difference between POST and PUT in HTTP?

Background Information Analysis:

According to RFC 2616, § 9.5,  is used to create a resource:

The POST method is used to request that the origin server accept the entity enclosed in the request as a new subordinate of the resource identified by the Request-URI in the Request-Line.

According to RFC 2616, § 9.6,  is used to create or replace a resource:

The PUT method requests that the enclosed entity be stored under the supplied Request-URI. If the Request-URI refers to an already existing resource, the enclosed entity SHOULD be considered as a modified version of the one residing on the origin server. If the Request-URI does not point to an existing resource, and that URI is capable of being defined as a new resource by the requesting user agent, the origin server can create the resource with that URI.

My Question:

So, which HTTP method should be used to create a resource? Or should both be supported?

Q: What is the difference between px, dip, dp, and sp?

What is the difference between the units of measure
px, dip, dp, and sp?

Q: How do I get the directory where a Bash script is located from within the script itself?

How do I get the path of the directory in which a Bash script is located, inside that script?

I want to use a Bash script as a launcher for another application. I want to change the working directory to the one where the Bash script is located, so I can operate on the files in that directory, like so:

Q: What is the difference between "let" and "var"?

ECMAScript 6 introduced the  declaration keyword.

I've heard that it's described as a local variable, but I'm still not quite sure how it behaves differently than the  keyword.

What are the differences? When should  be used instead of ?

Q: How do I include a JavaScript file in another JavaScript file?

How do I include a JavaScript file inside another JavaScript file, similar to  in CSS?

Q: How do I execute a program or call a system command?

How do I call an external command within Python as if I had typed it in a shell or command prompt?

Q: How to disable text selection highlighting

For anchors that act like buttons (for example, the buttons on the sidebar of this Stack Overflow page titled Questions, Tags, and Users) or tabs, is there a CSS standard way to disable the highlighting effect if the user accidentally selects the text?

I realize that this could be done with JavaScript and a little googling yielded the Mozilla-only  option.

Is there a standard-compliant way to accomplish this with CSS, and if not, what is the "best practice" approach?

Q: Reset local repository branch to be just like remote repository HEAD

How do I reset my local branch to be just like the branch on the remote repository?

I tried:

But  claims I have modified files:

Q: How can I reset or revert a file to a specific revision?

How can I revert a modified file to its previous revision at a specific commit hash (which I determined via  and )?

Q: What is the maximum length of a URL in different browsers?

- What is the maximum length of a URL for each browser?

- Is a maximum URL length part of the HTTP specification?

Q: How do I push a new local branch to a remote Git repository and track it too?

How do I:

- 

Create a local branch from another branch (via  or ).

- 

Push the local branch
to the remote repository (i.e. publish), but make it
trackable so that  and  will work.

Q: How do I squash my last N commits together?

How do I squash my last N commits together into one commit?

Q: How do I create a directory, and any missing parent directories?

How do I create a directory at a given path, and also create any missing parent directories along that path? For example, the Bash command  does this.

Q: Loop (for each) over an array in JavaScript

How can I loop through all the entries in an array using JavaScript?

Q: How to determine the URL that a local Git repository was originally cloned from

I pulled a project with several forks on GitHub, but forgot which fork it was. How do I determine which fork I pulled?

Q: How can I access the index value in a 'for' loop?

How do I access the index while iterating over a sequence with a  loop?

Desired output:

Q: Which equals operator (== vs ===) should be used in JavaScript comparisons?

I'm using JSLint to go through JavaScript, and it's returning many suggestions to replace  (two equals signs) with  (three equals signs) when doing things like comparing  inside of an  statement.

Is there a performance benefit to replacing  with ? 

Any performance improvement would be welcomed as many comparison operators exist.

If no type conversion takes place, would there be a performance gain over ?

Q: What's the difference between tilde(~) and caret(^) in package.json?

After I upgraded to the latest stable  and , I tried . It saves the entry in the  with the caret  prefix. Previously, it was a tilde  prefix.

- Why are these changes made in ?

- What is the difference between tilde  and caret ?

- What are the advantages over previous ones?

Q: How do I exit Vim?

I am stuck and cannot escape. It says:

But when I type that it simply appears in the object body.

Q: How do I replace all occurrences of a string?

Given a string:

This seems to only remove the first occurrence of  in the string above:

How do I replace all occurrences of it?

Q: How do I add an empty directory to a Git repository?

How do I add an empty directory (that contains no files) to a Git repository?

Q: How do I make a flat list out of a list of lists?

I have a list of lists like

How can I flatten it to get ?

Editor's notes:

If your list of lists comes from a nested list comprehension, the problem can be solved more simply/directly by fixing the comprehension; please see How can I get a flat result from a list comprehension instead of a nested list?.

The most popular solutions here generally only flatten one "level" of the nested list. See Flatten an irregular (arbitrarily nested) list of lists for solutions that completely flatten a deeply nested structure (recursively, in general).

Q: The definitive guide to form-based website authentication

Moderator note:

This question is not a good fit for our question and answer format with the topicality rules which currently apply for Stack Overflow. We normally use a "historical lock" for such questions where the content still has value. However, the answers on this question are actively maintained and a historical lock doesn't permit editing of the answers. As such, a "wiki answer" lock has been applied to allow the answers to be edited. You should assume the topicality issues which are normally handled by a historical lock are present (i.e. this question not a good example of an on-topic question for Stack Overflow).

Form-based authentication for websites

We believe that Stack Overflow should not just be a resource for very specific technical questions, but also for general guidelines on how to solve variations on common problems. "Form based authentication for websites" should be a fine topic for such an experiment.
It should include topics such as:

- How to log in

- How to log out

- How to remain logged in

- Managing cookies (including recommended settings)

- SSL/HTTPS encryption

- How to store passwords

- Using secret questions

- Forgotten username/password functionality

- Use of nonces to prevent cross-site request forgeries (CSRF)

- OpenID

- "Remember me" checkbox

- Browser autocompletion of usernames and passwords

- Secret URLs (public URL protected by digest)

- Checking password strength

- E-mail validation

- and much more about form based authentication...

It should not include things like:

- Roles and authorization

- HTTP basic authentication

Please help us by:

- Suggesting subtopics

- Submitting good articles about this subject

- Editing the official answer

Q: How do I create a GUID / UUID?

How do I create GUIDs (globally-unique identifiers) in JavaScript? The GUID / UUID should be at least 32 characters and should stay in the ASCII range to avoid trouble when passing them around.

I'm not sure what routines are available on all browsers, how "random" and seeded the built-in random number generator is, etc.

Q: Regular expression to match a line that doesn't contain a word

I know it's possible to match a word and then reverse the matches using other tools (e.g. ). However, is it possible to match lines that do not contain a specific word, e.g. , using a regular expression?
Input:

Code:

Desired output:

Q: How can I validate an email address in JavaScript?

I'd like to check if the user input is an email address in JavaScript, before sending it to a server or attempting to send an email to it, to prevent the most basic mistyping. How could I achieve this?

Q: How do I resolve merge conflicts in a Git repository?

How do I resolve merge conflicts in my Git repository?

Q: How do I make the first letter of a string uppercase in JavaScript?

How do I make the first character of a string uppercase if it's a letter, but not change the case of any of the other letters?

For example:

-  → 

-  → 

-  →

Q: What is a plain English explanation of "Big O" notation?

I'd prefer as little formal definition as possible and simple mathematics.

Q: What is the difference between INNER JOIN and OUTER JOIN?

What is the difference between  and ?

How do , , and  fit in?

Q: How do I check whether a checkbox is checked in jQuery?

I need to check the  property of a checkbox and perform an action based on the checked property using jQuery.

For example, if the  checkbox is checked, then I need to show a textbox to enter , else hide the textbox.

But the following code returns  by default:








How do I successfully query the  property?

Q: What is the most efficient way to deep clone an object in JavaScript?

What is the most efficient way to clone a JavaScript object? I've seen  being used, but that's non-standard and only supported by Firefox.

 I've done things like  but question the efficiency. 

 I've also seen recursive copying functions with various flaws.

I'm surprised no canonical solution exists.

Q: Reference Guide: What does this symbol mean in PHP? (PHP Syntax)

What is this?

This is a collection of questions that come up now and then about syntax in PHP. This is also a Community Wiki, so everyone is invited to participate in maintaining this list.

This question shouldn't be used as a dupe target for closing questions. Use actual questions linked here as dupe targets instead.
Why is this?

It used to be hard to find questions about operators and other syntax tokens.¹

The main idea is to have links to existing questions on Stack Overflow, so it's easier for us to reference them, and not to copy over content from the PHP Manual.

Note: Since January 2013, Stack Overflow does support special characters. Just surround the search terms by quotes, e.g. 
What should I do here?

If you have been pointed here by someone because you have asked such a question, please find the particular syntax below. The linked pages to the PHP manual along with the linked questions will likely answer your question then. If so, you are encouraged to upvote the answer. This list is not meant as a substitute for the help others provide.
The List

If your particular token is not listed below, you might find it in the List of Parser Tokens.

 Bitwise Operators or References

- What does it mean to start a PHP function with an ampersand?

- Understanding PHP & (ampersand, bitwise and) operator

- PHP "&" operator

- Difference between & and && in PHP

- What does "&" mean here in PHP?

- What does "&" mean in this case?

- What does the "&" sign mean in PHP?

- What does this signature mean (&) in PHP?

- How does the "&" operator work in a PHP function?

- What does & in &2 mean in PHP?

- When should I use a bitwise operator?

- Is there ever a need to use ampersand in front of an object? (&$)

 References

- Reference assignment operator in PHP, =&

- What do the "=&" and "&=" operators in PHP mean?

- What do the '&=' and '=&' operators do?

- What does =& mean in PHP?

 Bitwise Operators

- What do the "=&" and "&=" operators in PHP mean?

- What do the '&=' and '=&' operators do?

 Logical Operators

- 'AND' vs '&&' as operator

- Difference between & and && in PHP

- Is there any difference between "and" and "&&" operators in PHP?

- PHP - and / or keywords

 Arithmetic Operators

- What does the percent sign mean in PHP?

- What is the PHP operator % and how do I use it in real-world examples?

 Logical Operators

- Double not (!!) operator in PHP

 Error Control Operators

- What is the use of the @ symbol in PHP?

- 'At' symbol before variable name in PHP: @$_POST

- PHP functions and @functions

- Should I use @ in my PHP code?

- What does @ mean in PHP?

 Ternary Operator

- What are the PHP operators "?" and ":" called and what do they do?

- ?: operator (the 'Elvis operator') in PHP

- Where can I read about conditionals done with "?" and ":" (colon)?

- Using PHP 5.3 ?: operator

Double question mark

 Null Coalesce Operator (since PHP 7)

- C#'s null coalescing operator (??) in PHP

A question mark followed by a type declaration

 Nullable type declaration (since PHP 7.1)

- How to use a nullable type

- Nullable return type declaration

 question mark followed by object operator is a NullSafe Operator (since PHP 8.0)

- Is there a "nullsafe operator" in PHP?

 Alternative syntax for control structures, Ternary Operator, Return Type Declaration

- What is ":" in PHP?

- What does ":" mean in PHP?

- Colon after method declaration?

 Scope Resolution Operator

- What do two colons mean in PHP?

- What's the meaning of the PHP token name T_PAAMAYIM_NEKUDOTAYIM?

- What's the difference between :: (double colon) and -> (arrow) in PHP?

- What exactly are late static bindings in PHP?

- static::staticFunctionName()

- Unexpected T_PAAMAYIM_NEKUDOTAYIM, expecting T_NS_Separator

 Namespaces

- Backslash in PHP -- what does it mean?

- What does a \ (backslash) in front of function names mean?

 Classes And Objects

- What is the "->" PHP operator called?

- Where do we use the object operator "->" in PHP?

- What's the difference between :: (double colon) and -> (arrow) in PHP?

- What does the PHP syntax $var1->$var2 mean?

- What does "->" mean/refer to in PHP?

 Arrays

- What does "=>" mean in PHP?

- Use of => in PHP

- What does $k => $v in foreach($ex as $k=>$v) mean?

 Bitwise Operators

- How does the bitwise operator XOR ('^') work?

- What does ^ mean in PHP?

 Bitwise Operators

- What does >> mean in PHP?

 Bitwise Operators

- Strange print behaviour in PHP?

 Heredoc or Nowdoc

- What does 

- PHP expression 

- In PHP, what does "

- Using 

- What's this kind of syntax in PHP?

 Assignment Operators

- The 3 different equals

 Comparison Operators

- How do the PHP equality (== double equals) and identity (=== triple equals) comparison operators differ?

- PHP != and == operators

- The 3 different equals

- Type-juggling and (strict) greater/lesser-than comparisons in PHP

 Comparison Operators

- What does "===" mean?

- How do the PHP equality (== double equals) and identity (=== triple equals) comparison operators differ?

- The 3 different equals

- Type-juggling and (strict) greater/lesser-than comparisons in PHP

 Comparison Operators

- What does !== comparison operator in PHP mean?

- Is there a difference between !== and != in PHP?

 Comparison Operators

- PHP != and == operators

- Is there a difference between !== and != in PHP?

- comparing, !== versus !=

- What is the difference between <> and !=

 Comparison Operators

- PHP operator <>

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/589391

- What is the difference between <> and !=

- Type-juggling and (strict) greater/lesser-than comparisons in PHP

 Comparison Operators (since PHP 7.0)

- Spaceship (three way comparison) operator

 Bitwise Operators

- What is the difference between the | and || operators?

- What Does Using A Single Pipe '|' In A Function Argument Do?

 Logical Operators

- What is the difference between the | and || operators?

- PHP - and / or keywords

- What exactly does || mean?

- The behaviour of the or operator in PHP

 Pipe Operator  (since PHP 8.5)

 Bitwise Operators

- What does this ~ operator mean here?

 Arithmetic Operators, Array Operators

- Merging two arrays with the "+" (array union operator) How does it work?

 and  Assignment Operators

- What is += used for?

- What does `$page -= 1` in my PHP document mean?

 and  Incrementing/Decrementing Operators

- Understanding Incrementing

- Answer below

 Assignment Operators

- What is the difference between .= and += in PHP?

- What is the .= (dot equals) operator in PHP?

 String Operators

- Difference between period and comma when concatenating with echo versus return?

- What does a . (dot) do in PHP?

 Function Arguments

- Difference between period and comma when concatenating with echo versus return?

 Variable Declarations

- What do commas mean in a variable declaration?

 Variable Variables

- What does $$ (dollar dollar or double dollar) mean in PHP?

- what is "$$" in PHP

- $function() and $$variable

 Execution Operator

- What are the backticks `` called?

 Short Open Tags

- What does this symbol mean in PHP 

- What does '

- What does 

 Arrays (short syntax since PHP 5.4)

- PHP arrays... What is/are the meaning(s) of an empty bracket?

- What is the meaning of []

- Php array_push() vs myArray[]

- What does [] mean when reading from a PHP array?

- Shorthand for arrays: literal  empty array

 Opening and Closing tags

- Are PHP short tags acceptable to use?

 Double-dot character range

- Native PHP functions that allow double-dot range syntax

 Argument unpacking (since PHP 5.6)

 Exponentiation (since PHP 5.6)

 One-line shell-style comment

- Can I use hashes for comments in PHP?

 Attributes (since PHP 8)

Q: How can I delete a remote tag?

How can I delete a Git tag that has already been pushed?

Q: How can I horizontally center an element?

How can I horizontally center a  within another  using CSS?

Q: What is the difference between a URI, a URL, and a URN?

What is the difference between a URL, a URI, and a URN?

Q: How do I check if an array includes a value in JavaScript?

What is the most concise and efficient way to find out if a JavaScript array contains a value?

This is the only way I know to do it:

Is there a better and more concise way to accomplish this?

This is very closely related to Stack Overflow question Best way to find an item in a JavaScript Array? which addresses finding objects in an array using .

Q: Undo a Git merge that hasn't been pushed yet

I accidentally ran  on my local master branch. I haven't pushed the changes to origin master. How do I undo the merge?

After merging,  says:

How do I undo all these commits?

Q: How do I get a timestamp in JavaScript?

I want a single number that represents the current date and time, like a Unix timestamp.

Q: How do I clone all remote branches?

My  and  branches are tracked remotely on GitHub. How do I clone both these branches?

Q: How do I update or sync a forked repository on GitHub?

I forked a project, made changes, and created a pull request which was accepted. New commits were later added to the repository. How do I get those commits into my fork?

Q: What is the difference between @staticmethod and @classmethod in Python?

What is the difference between a method decorated with  and one decorated with ?

Q: How to pass "Null" (a real surname!) to a SOAP web service in ActionScript 3

We have an employee whose surname is Null. Our employee lookup application is killed when that last name is used as the search term (which happens to be quite often now). The error received is:

The parameter type is .

I am using:

- WSDL (SOAP)

- Flex 3.5

- ActionScript 3

- ColdFusion 8

Note that the error does not occur when calling the webservice as an object from a ColdFusion page.

Q: How do I remove a submodule?

How do I remove a Git submodule?
Why can't I do
?

Q: How do I read / convert an InputStream into a String in Java?

If you have a  object, how should you process that object and produce a ?

Suppose I have an  that contains text data, and I want to convert it to a , so for example I can write that to a log file.

What is the easiest way to take the  and convert it to a ?

Q: How slicing in Python works

How does Python's slice notation work? That is: when I write code like , ,  etc., how can I understand which elements end up in the slice?

See Why are slice and range upper-bound exclusive? to learn why , not .

See Make a new list containing every Nth item in the original list for .

See How does assignment work with list slices? to learn what  does.

Q: Setting "checked" for a checkbox with jQuery

I'd like to do something like this to tick a  using jQuery:

or

Does such a thing exist?

Q: How do I check if a directory exists or not in a Bash shell script?

What command checks if a directory exists or not within a Bash shell script?

Q: How do I delete a commit from a branch?

How do I delete a commit from my branch history? Should I use ?

Q: Why does Google prepend while(1); to their JSON responses?

Why does Google prepend  to their (private) JSON responses?

For example, here's a response while turning a calendar on and off in Google Calendar:

I would assume this is to prevent people from doing an  on it, but all you'd really have to do is replace the  and then you'd be set. I would assume the eval prevention is to make sure people write safe JSON parsing code.

I've seen this used in a couple of other places, too, but a lot more so with Google (Mail, Calendar, Contacts, etc.) Strangely enough, Google Docs starts with  instead, and Google Contacts seems to start with .

What's going on here?

Q: How is Docker different from a virtual machine?

I keep rereading the Docker documentation to try to understand the difference between Docker and a full VM. How does it manage to provide a full filesystem, isolated networking environment, etc. without being as heavy?

Why is deploying software to a Docker image (if that's the right term) easier than simply deploying to a consistent production environment?

Q: "Thinking in AngularJS" if I have a jQuery background?

Suppose I'm familiar with developing client-side applications in jQuery, but now I'd like to start using AngularJS. Can you describe the paradigm shift that is necessary? Here are a few questions that might help you frame an answer:

- How do I architect and design client-side web applications differently? What is the biggest difference?

- What should I stop doing/using; What should I start doing/using instead?

- Are there any server-side considerations/restrictions?

I'm not looking for a detailed comparison between  and .

Q: How can I find the index for a given item in a list?

Given a list  and an item in the list , how do I get its index ?

Q: Undoing a git rebase

How do I easily undo a git rebase? A lengthy manual method is:

- checkout the commit parent to both of the branches

- create and checkout a temporary branch

- cherry-pick all commits by hand

- reset the faulty rebased branch to point to the temporary branch

In my current situation, this works because I can easily spot commits from both branches (one was my stuff, the other was my colleague's stuff). However, my approach strikes me as suboptimal and error-prone (let's say I had just rebased with two of my own branches).

Clarification: I am talking about a rebase during which multiple commits were replayed, not only one.

Q: Which "href" value should I use for JavaScript links, "#" or "javascript:void(0)"?

The following are two methods of building a link that has the sole purpose of running JavaScript code. Which is better, in terms of functionality, page load speed, validation purposes, etc.?








or

Q: How do I avoid checking for nulls in Java?

I use  to avoid . Is there an alternative?

Q: Iterating over a dictionary using a 'for' loop, getting keys

How does Python recognize that it needs only to read the  from the dictionary? Is  a special keyword, or is it simply a variable?

Q: How can I enumerate an enum?

How can you enumerate an  in C#?

E.g., the following code does not compile:

And it gives the following compile-time error:

'Suit' is a 'type' but is used like a 'variable'

It fails on the  keyword, the second one.

Q: Change an HTML input's placeholder color with CSS

Chrome v4 supports the placeholder attribute on  elements (others probably do too).

However, the following CSS doesn't do anything to the placeholder's value:








 will still remain  instead of .

Is there a way to change the color of the placeholder text?

Q: How can I close/hide the Android soft keyboard programmatically?

I have an  and a  in my layout.

After writing in the edit field and clicking on the , I want to hide the virtual keyboard when touching outside the keyboard. Can someone provide a simple example of how to achieve this?

Q: How can I insert an item into an array at a specific index?

I am looking for a JavaScript array insert method, in the style of:

It should preferably be in jQuery, but any JavaScript implementation will do at this point.

A: You are a victim of branch prediction fail.

What is Branch Prediction?

Consider a railroad junction:

Image by Mecanismo, via Wikimedia Commons. Used under the CC-By-SA 3.0 license.

Now for the sake of argument, suppose this is back in the 1800s - before long-distance or radio communication.

You are a blind operator of a junction and you hear a train coming. You have no idea which way it is supposed to go. You stop the train to ask the driver which direction they want. And then you set the switch appropriately.

Trains are heavy and have a lot of inertia, so they take forever to start up and slow down.

Is there a better way? You guess which direction the train will go!

- If you guessed right, it continues on.

- If you guessed wrong, the driver will stop, back up, and yell at you to flip the switch. Then it can restart down the other path.

If you guess right every time, the train will never have to stop.

If you guess wrong too often, the train will spend a lot of time stopping, backing up, and restarting.

Consider an if-statement: At the processor level, it is a branch instruction:

= 128) compiles into a jump-if-less-than processor instruction." />

You are a processor and you see a branch. You have no idea which way it will go. What do you do? You halt execution and wait until the previous instructions are complete. Then you continue down the correct path.

Modern processors are complicated and have long pipelines. This means they take forever to "warm up" and "slow down".

Is there a better way? You guess which direction the branch will go!

- If you guessed right, you continue executing.

- If you guessed wrong, you need to flush the pipeline and roll back to the branch. Then you can restart down the other path.

If you guess right every time, the execution will never have to stop.

If you guess wrong too often, you spend a lot of time stalling, rolling back, and restarting.

This is branch prediction. I admit it's not the best analogy since the train could just signal the direction with a flag. But in computers, the processor doesn't know which direction a branch will go until the last moment.

How would you strategically guess to minimize the number of times that the train must back up and go down the other path? You look at the past history! If the train goes left 99% of the time, then you guess left. If it alternates, then you alternate your guesses. If it goes one way every three times, you guess the same...

In other words, you try to identify a pattern and follow it. This is more or less how branch predictors work.

Most applications have well-behaved branches. Therefore, modern branch predictors will typically achieve >90% hit rates. But when faced with unpredictable branches with no recognizable patterns, branch predictors are virtually useless.

Further reading: "Branch predictor" article on Wikipedia.

As hinted from above, the culprit is this if-statement:

Notice that the data is evenly distributed between 0 and 255. When the data is sorted, roughly the first half of the iterations will not enter the if-statement. After that, they will all enter the if-statement.

This is very friendly to the branch predictor since the branch consecutively goes the same direction many times. Even a simple saturating counter will correctly predict the branch except for the few iterations after it switches direction.

Quick visualization:

However, when the data is completely random, the branch predictor is rendered useless, because it can't predict random data. Thus there will probably be around 50% misprediction (no better than random guessing).

What can be done?

If the compiler isn't able to optimize the branch into a conditional move, you can try some hacks if you are willing to sacrifice readability for performance.

Replace:

with:

This eliminates the branch and replaces it with some bitwise operations.

(Note that this hack is not strictly equivalent to the original if-statement. But in this case, it's valid for all the input values of .)

Benchmarks: Core i7 920 @ 3.5 GHz

C++ - Visual Studio 2010 - x64 Release

Scenario
Time (seconds)

Branching - Random data
11.777

Branching - Sorted data
2.352

Branchless - Random data
2.564

Branchless - Sorted data
2.587

Java - NetBeans 7.1.1 JDK 7 - x64

Scenario
Time (seconds)

Branching - Random data
10.93293813

Branching - Sorted data
5.643797077

Branchless - Random data
3.113581453

Branchless - Sorted data
3.186068823

Observations:

- With the Branch: There is a huge difference between the sorted and unsorted data.

- With the Hack: There is no difference between sorted and unsorted data.

- In the C++ case, the hack is actually a tad slower than with the branch when the data is sorted.

A general rule of thumb is to avoid data-dependent branching in critical loops (such as in this example).

Update:

- 

GCC 4.6.1 with  or  on x64 is able to generate a conditional move, so there is no difference between the sorted and unsorted data - both are fast.  This is called "if-conversion" (to branchless) and is necessary for vectorization but also sometimes good for scalar.

(Or somewhat fast: for the already-sorted case,  can be slower especially if GCC puts it on the critical path instead of just , especially on Intel before Broadwell where  has 2-cycle latency: gcc optimization flag -O3 makes code slower than -O2)

- 

VC++ 2010 is unable to generate conditional moves for this branch even under .

- 

Intel C++ Compiler (ICC) 11 does something miraculous. It interchanges the two loops, thereby hoisting the unpredictable branch to the outer loop. Not only is it immune to the mispredictions, it's also twice as fast as whatever VC++ and GCC can generate! In other words, ICC took advantage of the test-loop to defeat the benchmark...

- 

If you give the Intel compiler the branchless code, it just outright vectorizes it... and is just as fast as with the branch (with the loop interchange).

- Clang also vectorizes the  version, as will GCC 5 and later with , even though it takes quite a few instructions to sign-extend to the 64-bit sum on x86 without SSE4 or AVX2.  ( or ).  See Why is processing an unsorted array the same speed as processing a sorted array with modern x86-64 clang?

This goes to show that even mature modern compilers can vary wildly in their ability to optimize code...

A: Undo a commit & redo

-  is the command responsible for the undo. It will undo your last commit while leaving your working tree (the state of your files on disk) untouched. You'll need to add them again before you can commit them again.

- Make corrections to working tree files.

-  anything that you want to include in your new commit.

- Commit the changes, reusing the old commit message.  copied the old head to ;  with  will open an editor, which initially contains the log message from the old commit and allows you to edit it. If you do not need to edit the message, you could use the  option.

Alternatively, to edit the previous commit (or just its commit message),  will add changes within the current index to the previous commit.

To remove (not revert) a commit that has been pushed to the server, rewriting history with  is necessary. It's almost always a bad idea to use ; prefer  instead, and as noted in the git manual:

You should understand the implications of rewriting history if you amend a commit that has already been published.

Further Reading

You can use  to determine the SHA-1 for the commit to which you wish to revert. Once you have this value, use the sequence of commands as explained above.

 is the same as . The article What is the HEAD in git? is helpful if you want to uncommit multiple commits.

A: Executive Summary

Note: In most cases,  will be .
Delete Local Branch

To delete the local branch, use one of the following:

- The  option is an alias for , which only deletes the branch if it has already been fully merged in its upstream branch.

- The  option is an alias for , which deletes the branch "irrespective of its merged status." [Source: ]

- As of Git v2.3,  (delete) learned to honor the  (force) flag.

- You will receive an error if you try to delete the currently selected branch.

Delete Remote Branch

As of Git v1.7.0, you can delete a remote branch using

which might be easier to remember than

which was added in Git v1.5.0 "to delete a remote branch or a tag."

Starting with Git v2.8.0, you can also use  with the  option as an alias for . Therefore, the version of Git you have installed will dictate whether you need to use the easier or harder syntax.
Delete Remote Branch [Original Answer from 5-Jan-2010]

From Chapter 3 of Pro Git by Scott Chacon:

Deleting Remote Branches

Suppose you’re done with a remote branch — say, you and your collaborators are finished with a feature and have merged it into your remote’s main branch (or whatever branch your stable code-line is in). You can delete a remote branch using the rather obtuse syntax . If you want to delete your  branch from the server, you run the following:

Boom. No more branches on your server. You may want to dog-ear this page, because you’ll need that command, and you’ll likely forget the syntax. A way to remember this command is by recalling the  syntax that we went over a bit earlier. If you leave off the  portion, then you’re basically saying, “Take nothing on my side and make it be .”

I ran , and it worked beautifully. Scott Chacon was right—I will want to dog-ear that page (or virtually dog ear-by answering this on Stack Overflow).
Fetch changes

Finally, execute the following on other machines to propagate changes:

A: To rename the current branch:

To rename a branch while pointed to any branch:

 is short for .

To push the  local branch and reset the upstream branch:

To delete the  remote branch:

To create a  alias:

On Windows or another case-insensitive filesystem, use  if there are only capitalization changes in the name. Otherwise, Git will throw a "branch already exists" error.

A: Amending the most recent commit message

will open your editor, allowing you to change the commit message of the most recent commit. Additionally, you can set the commit message directly in the command line with:

…however, this can make multi-line commit messages or small corrections more cumbersome to enter.

Make sure you don't have any working copy changes staged before doing this or they will get committed too. (Unstaged changes will not get committed.)
Changing the message of a commit that you've already pushed to your remote branch

If you've already pushed your commit up to your remote branch, then - after amending your commit locally (as described above) - you'll also need to force push the commit with:

Warning: force-pushing will overwrite the remote branch with the state of your local one. If there are commits on the remote branch that you don't have in your local branch, you will lose those commits.

Warning: be cautious about amending commits that you have already shared with other people. Amending commits essentially rewrites them to have different SHA IDs, which poses a problem if other people have copies of the old commit that you've rewritten. Anyone who has a copy of the old commit will need to synchronize their work with your newly re-written commit, which can sometimes be difficult, so make sure you coordinate with others when attempting to rewrite shared commit history, or just avoid rewriting shared commits altogether.

Perform an interactive rebase

Another option is to use interactive rebase.
This allows you to edit any message you want to update even if it's not the latest message.

In order to do a Git squash, follow these steps:

Once you squash your commits - choose the  for editing the message:

Important note about interactive rebase

When you use  there can be more than n commits. Git will "collect" all the commits in the last n commits, and if there was a merge somewhere in between that range you will see all the commits as well, so the outcome will be n + .
Good tip:

If you have to do it for more than a single branch and you might face conflicts when amending the content, set up  and let Git resolve those conflicts automatically for you.

Documentation

- 

git-commit(1) Manual Page

- 

git-rebase(1) Manual Page

- 

git-push(1) Manual Page

A: To understand what  does, you must understand what generators are. And before you can understand generators, you must understand iterables.
Iterables

When you create a list, you can read its items one by one. Reading its items one by one is called iteration:

 is an iterable. When you use a list comprehension, you create a list, and so an iterable:

Everything you can use "" on is an iterable; , , files...

These iterables are handy because you can read them as much as you wish, but you store all the values in memory and this is not always what you want when you have a lot of values.
Generators

Generators are iterators, a kind of iterable you can only iterate over once. Generators do not store all the values in memory, they generate the values on the fly:

It is just the same except you used  instead of . BUT, you cannot perform  a second time since generators can only be used once: they calculate 0, then forget about it and calculate 1, and end after calculating 4, one by one.
Yield

 is a keyword that is used like , except the function will return a generator.

Here it's a useless example, but it's handy when you know your function will return a huge set of values that you will only need to read once.

To master , you must understand that when you call the function, the code you have written in the function body does not run. The function only returns the generator object, this is a bit tricky.

Then, your code will continue from where it left off each time  uses the generator.

Now the hard part:

The first time the  calls the generator object created from your function, it will run the code in your function from the beginning until it hits , then it'll return the first value of the loop. Then, each subsequent call will run another iteration of the loop you have written in the function and return the next value. This will continue until the generator is considered empty, which happens when the function runs without hitting . That can be because the loop has come to an end, or because you no longer satisfy an .

Your code explained

Generator:

Caller:

This code contains several smart parts:

- 

The loop iterates on a list, but the list expands while the loop is being iterated. It's a concise way to go through all these nested data even if it's a bit dangerous since you can end up with an infinite loop. In this case,  exhausts all the values of the generator, but  keeps creating new generator objects which will produce different values from the previous ones since it's not applied on the same node.

- 

The  method is a list object method that expects an iterable and adds its values to the list.

Usually, we pass a list to it:

But in your code, it gets a generator, which is good because:

- You don't need to read the values twice.

- You may have a lot of children and you don't want them all stored in memory.

And it works because Python does not care if the argument of a method is a list or not. Python expects iterables so it will work with strings, lists, tuples, and generators! This is called duck typing and is one of the reasons why Python is so cool. But this is another story, for another question...

You can stop here, or read a little bit to see an advanced use of a generator:
Controlling a generator exhaustion

Note: For Python 3, use or 

It can be useful for various things like controlling access to a resource.
Itertools, your best friend

The  module contains special functions to manipulate iterables. Ever wish to duplicate a generator?
Chain two generators? Group values in a nested list with a one-liner?  without creating another list?

Then just .

An example? Let's see the possible orders of arrival for a four-horse race:

Understanding the inner mechanisms of iteration

Iteration is a process implying iterables (implementing the  method) and iterators (implementing the  method).
Iterables are any objects you can get an iterator from. Iterators are objects that let you iterate on iterables.

There is more about it in this article about how  loops work.

A: Find the  of the array element you want to remove using , and then remove that index with .

The splice() method changes the contents of an array by removing
existing elements and/or adding new elements.







The second parameter of  is the number of elements to remove. Note that  modifies the array in place and returns a new array containing the elements that have been removed.

For completeness, here are functions. The first function removes only a single occurrence (e.g., removing the first match of  from ), while the second function removes all occurrences:







In TypeScript, these functions can stay type-safe with a type parameter:

A: One does not simply redirect using jQuery

jQuery is not necessary, and  will best simulate an HTTP redirect.

 is better than using , because  does not keep the originating page in the session history, meaning the user won't get stuck in a never-ending back-button fiasco.

If you want to simulate someone clicking on a link, use 

If you want to simulate an HTTP redirect, use 

For example:

A: ECMAScript 6  introduced :







 is case-sensitive and is not supported by Internet Explorer without a polyfill.

In ECMAScript 5 or older environments, use , which returns -1 when a substring cannot be found:

A: Do the following:

-  or  is recursive,

-  is line number, and

-  stands for match the whole word.

-  (lower-case L) can be added to just give the file name of matching files.

-  is the pattern used during the search

Along with these, , ,  flags could be used for efficient searching:

- 

This will only search through those files which have .c or .h extensions:

- 

This will exclude searching all the files ending with .o extension:

- 

For directories it's possible to exclude one or more directories using the  parameter. For example, this will exclude the dirs ,  and all of them matching :

This works very well for me, to achieve almost the same purpose like yours.

For more options, see .

A: To unstage a specific file

That will remove the file from the current index (the "about to be committed" list) without changing anything else.
To unstage all files from the current change set:

In old versions of Git, the above commands are equivalent to  and  respectively, and will fail if  is undefined (because you haven't yet made any commits in your repository) or ambiguous (because you created a branch called , which is a stupid thing that you shouldn't do). This was changed in Git 1.8.2, though, so in modern versions of Git you can use the commands above even prior to making your first commit:

"git reset" (without options or parameters) used to error out when
you do not have any commits in your history, but it now gives you
an empty index (to match non-existent commit you are not even on).

Documentation: git reset

A: ⚠ Warning:

Any uncommitted local change to tracked files will be lost, even if staged.

But any local file that's not tracked by Git will not be affected.

First, update all  refs to latest:

Backup your current branch (e.g. ):

Jump to the latest commit on  and checkout those files:

Explanation:

 downloads the latest from remote without trying to merge or rebase anything.

 resets the master branch to what you just fetched. The  option changes all the files in your working tree to match the files in .

Maintain current local commits

[*]: It's worth noting that it is possible to maintain current local commits by creating a branch from  before resetting:

After this, all of the old commits will be kept in .
Uncommitted changes

Uncommitted changes, even if staged (with ), will be lost. Make sure to  or commit anything you need. For example, run the following:

And later (after ), reapply these uncommitted changes:

Which may create merge conflicts.

A: Undoing a commit is a little scary if you don't know how it works.  But it's actually amazingly easy if you do understand. I'll show you the 4 different ways you can undo a commit.

Say you have this, where C is your HEAD and (F) is the state of your files.

Option 1: 

You want to destroy commit C and also throw away any uncommitted changes.  You do this:

The result is:

Now B is the HEAD.  Because you used , your files are reset to their state at commit B.
Option 2: 

Maybe commit C wasn't a disaster, but just a bit off.  You want to undo the commit but keep your changes for a bit of editing before you do a better commit.  Starting again from here, with C as your HEAD:

Do this, leaving off the :

In this case the result is:

In both cases, HEAD is just a pointer to the latest commit.  When you do a , you tell Git to move the HEAD pointer back one commit.  But (unless you use ) you leave your files as they were.  So now  shows the changes you had checked into C.  You haven't lost a thing!
Option 3: 

For the lightest touch, you can even undo your commit but leave your files and your index:

This not only leaves your files alone, it even leaves your index alone.  When you do , you'll see that the same files are in the index as before.  In fact, right after this command, you could do  and you'd be redoing the same commit you just had.
Option 4: you did  and need to get that code back

One more thing: Suppose you destroy a commit as in the first example, but then discover you needed it after all?  Tough luck, right?

Nope, there's still a way to get it back.  Type this

and you'll see a list of (partial) commit SHAs (that is, hashes) that you've moved around in.  Find the commit you destroyed, and do this:

You've now resurrected that commit.  Commits don't actually get destroyed in Git for some 90 days, so you can usually go back and rescue one you didn't mean to get rid of.

A: This depends a lot on what you mean by "revert".
Temporarily switch to a different commit

If you want to temporarily go back to it, fool around, then come back to where you are, all you have to do is check out the desired commit:

Or if you want to make commits while you're there, go ahead and make a new branch while you're at it:

To go back to where you were, just check out the branch you were on again. (If you've made changes, as always when switching branches, you'll have to deal with them as appropriate. You could reset to throw them away; you could stash, checkout, stash pop to take them with you; you could commit them to a branch there if you want a branch there.)
Hard delete unpublished commits

If, on the other hand, you want to really get rid of everything you've done since then, there are two possibilities. One, if you haven't published any of these commits, simply reset:

If you mess up, you've already thrown away your local changes, but you can at least get back to where you were before by resetting again.
Undo published commits with new commits

On the other hand, if you've published the work, you probably don't want to reset the branch, since that's effectively rewriting history. In that case, you could indeed revert the commits. In many enterprise organisations, the concept of "protected" branches will even prevent history from being rewritten on some major branches. In this case, reverting is your only option.

With Git, revert has a very specific meaning: create a commit with the reverse patch to cancel it out. This way you don't rewrite any history.

First figure out what commits to revert. Depending on the technique chosen below, you want to either revert only the merge commits, or only the non-merge commits.

Note: if you revert multiple commits, the order matters. Start with the most recent commit.

The  manpage actually covers a lot of this in its description. Another useful link is this git-scm.com section discussing git-revert.

If you decide you didn't want to revert after all, you can revert the revert (as described here) or reset back to before the revert (see the previous section).

You may also find this answer helpful in this case:

How can I move HEAD back to a previous location? (Detached head) & Undo commits

A: The answer has been split depending on whether there is one remote repository configured or multiple. The reason for this is that for the single remote case, some of the commands can be simplified as there is less ambiguity.

Updated for Git 2.23: For older versions, see the section at the end.
With One Remote

In both cases, start by fetching from the remote repository to make sure you have all the latest changes downloaded.

This will fetch all of the remote branches for you. You can see the branches available for checkout with:

The branches that start with  can be thought of as read only copies of the remote branches. To work on a branch you need to create a local branch from it. This is done with the Git command  (since Git 2.23) by giving it the name of the remote branch (minus the remote name):

In this case Git is guessing (can be disabled with ) that you are trying to checkout and track the remote branch with the same name.
With Multiple Remotes

In the case where multiple remote repositories exist, the remote repository needs to be explicitly named.

As before, start by fetching the latest remote changes:

This will fetch all of the remote branches for you. You can see the branches available for checkout with:

With the remote branches in hand, you now need to check out the branch you are interested in with  to create a new local branch:

For more information about using :

Prior to Git 2.23

 was added in Git 2.23, prior to this  was used to switch branches.

To checkout out with only a single remote repository:

if there are multiple remote repositories configured then it becomes a bit longer

A: It's a time zone change on December 31st in Shanghai.

See this page for details of 1927 in Shanghai. Basically at midnight at the end of 1927, the clocks went back 5 minutes and 52 seconds. So "1927-12-31 23:54:08" actually happened twice, and it looks like Java is parsing it as the later possible instant for that local date/time - hence the difference.

Just another episode in the often weird and wonderful world of time zones.

If rebuilt with version 2013a of TZDB, The original question would no longer demonstrate quite the same behaviour. In 2013a, the result would be 358 seconds, with a transition time of 23:54:03 instead of 23:54:08.

I only noticed this because I'm collecting questions like this in Noda Time, in the form of unit tests... The test has now been changed, but it just goes to show - not even historical data is safe.

In TZDB 2014f, the time of the change has moved to 1900-12-31, and it's now a mere 343 second change (so the time between  and  is 344 seconds, if you see what I mean).

To answer a question around a transition at 1900... it looks like the Java time zone implementation treats all time zones as simply being in their standard time for any instant before the start of 1900 UTC:

The code above produces no output on my Windows machine. So any time zone which has any offset other than its standard one at the start of 1900 will count that as a transition. TZDB itself has some data going back earlier than that, and doesn't rely on any idea of a "fixed" standard time (which is what  assumes to be a valid concept) so other libraries needn't introduce this artificial transition.

A: In the simplest terms,  does a  followed by a .

 updates your remote-tracking branches under . This operation is safe to run at any time since it never changes any of your local branches under .

 brings a local branch up-to-date with its remote version, while also updating your other remote-tracking branches.

From the Git documentation for :

 runs  with the given parameters and then depending on configuration options or command line flags, will call either  or  to reconcile diverging branches.

A: For JSON text:

The MIME media type for JSON text is . The default encoding is UTF-8. (Source: RFC 4627)

For JSONP (runnable JavaScript) with callback:

Here are some blog posts that were mentioned in the relevant comments:

- Why you shouldn't use  for JSON

- Internet Explorer sometimes has issues with 

- A rather complete list of Mimetypes and what to use them for

- The official mime type list at IANA from @gnrfan's answer below

A: First, view the existing remotes to verify which URL is currently set:

Then, you can set it with:

See . You also can edit  and change the URLs there.

You're not in any danger of losing history unless you do something very silly (and if you're worried, just make a copy of your repo, since your repo is your history.)

Updating the (push) entry:

When running  you'll usually see 2 entries that look like this:

You can optionally update the  URI by running:

After updating, you'll have 2 different URIs for the 2 entries so you'll
be fetching/pulling from one source and pushing to another source:

A: Setting your branch to exactly match the remote branch can be done in two steps:

If you want to save your current branch's state before doing this (just in case), you can do:

Now your work is saved on the branch "my-saved-work" in case you decide you want it back (or want to look at it later or diff it against your updated branch).

Note: the first example assumes that the remote repo's name is  and that the branch named  in the remote repo matches the currently checked-out branch in your local repo, since that is in line with the example given in the question. If you are trying to reset to the default branch in a more recent repository, it is likely that it will be .

BTW, this situation that you're in looks an awful lot like a common case where a push has been done into the currently checked out branch of a non-bare repository. Did you recently push into your local repo? If not, then no worries -- something else must have caused these files to unexpectedly end up modified. Otherwise, you should be aware that it's not recommended to push into a non-bare repository (and not into the currently checked-out branch, in particular).

A: Since the question refers to a single element, this code might be more suitable:

It is the same as twernt's suggestion, but applied to a single element; and it matches the algorithm recommended in the jQuery FAQ.

We use jQuery's is() to check the selected element with another element, selector or any jQuery object. This method traverses along the DOM elements to find a match, which satisfies the passed parameter. It will return true if there is a match, otherwise return false.

A: git-clean - Remove untracked files from the working tree
Synopsis

Description

Cleans the working tree by recursively removing files that are not under version control, starting from the current directory.

Normally, only files unknown to Git are removed, but if the  option is specified, ignored files are also removed. This can, for example, be useful to remove all build products.

If any optional  arguments are given, only those paths are affected.

Step 1 is to show what will be deleted by using the  option:

Clean Step - beware: this will delete files:

- To remove directories, run  or 

- To remove ignored files, run  or 

- To remove ignored and non-ignored files, run  or 

Note the case difference on the  for the two latter commands.

If  is set to "true" (the default) in your configuration, one needs to specify  otherwise nothing will actually happen.

Again see the  docs for more information.

Options

, 

If the Git configuration variable clean.requireForce is not set to
false, git clean will refuse to run unless given ,  or .

Don’t use the standard ignore rules read from .gitignore (per
directory) and , but do still use the ignore
rules given with  options. This allows removing all untracked files,
including build products. This can be used (possibly in conjunction
with git reset) to create a pristine working directory to test a clean
build.

Remove only files ignored by Git. This may be useful to rebuild
everything from scratch, but keep manually created files.

, 

Don’t actually remove anything, just show what would be done.

Remove untracked directories in addition to untracked files. If an
untracked directory is managed by a different Git repository, it is
not removed by default. Use  option twice if you really want to
remove such a directory.

A: To remove a property from an object (mutating the object), you can do it by using the  keyword, like this:

Demo







For anyone interested in reading more about it, Stack Overflow user kangax has written an incredibly in-depth blog post about the  statement on their blog, Understanding delete. It is highly recommended.

If you'd like a new object with all the keys of the original except some, you could use destructuring.

Demo

A: is not an operator. It is in fact two separate operators,  and .

The code in the condition decrements , while returning 's original (not decremented) value, and then compares the original value with  using the  operator.

To better understand, the statement could be written as follows:

A: How can I merge two Python dictionaries in a single expression?

For dictionaries  and , their shallowly-merged dictionary  takes values from , replacing those from .

- 

In Python 3.9.0 or greater (released 17 October 2020, , discussed here):

- 

In Python 3.5 or greater:

- 

In Python 2, (or 3.4 or lower) write a function:

and now:

Explanation

Say you have two dictionaries and you want to merge them into a new dictionary without altering the original dictionaries:

The desired result is to get a new dictionary () with the values merged, and the second dictionary's values overwriting those from the first.

A new syntax for this, proposed in PEP 448 and available as of Python 3.5, is

And it is indeed a single expression.

Note that we can merge in with literal notation as well:

and now:

It is now showing as implemented in the release schedule for 3.5, PEP 478, and it has now made its way into the What's New in Python 3.5 document.

However, since many organizations are still on Python 2, you may wish to do this in a backward-compatible way. The classically Pythonic way, available in Python 2 and Python 3.0-3.4, is to do this as a two-step process:

In both approaches,  will come second and its values will replace 's values, thus  will point to  in our final result.
Not yet on Python 3.5, but want a single expression

If you are not yet on Python 3.5 or need to write backward-compatible code, and you want this in a single expression, the most performant while the correct approach is to put it in a function:

and then you have a single expression:

You can also make a function to merge an arbitrary number of dictionaries, from zero to a very large number:

This function will work in Python 2 and 3 for all dictionaries. e.g. given dictionaries  to :

and key-value pairs in  will take precedence over dictionaries  to , and so on.
Critiques of Other Answers

Don't use what you see in the formerly accepted answer:

In Python 2, you create two lists in memory for each dict, create a third list in memory with length equal to the length of the first two put together, and then discard all three lists to create the dict. In Python 3, this will fail because you're adding two  objects together, not two lists -

and you would have to explicitly create them as lists, e.g. . This is a waste of resources and computation power.

Similarly, taking the union of  in Python 3 ( in Python 2.7) will also fail when values are unhashable objects (like lists, for example). Even if your values are hashable, since sets are semantically unordered, the behavior is undefined in regards to precedence. So don't do this:

This example demonstrates what happens when values are unhashable:

Here's an example where  should have precedence, but instead the value from  is retained due to the arbitrary order of sets:

Another hack you should not use:

This uses the  constructor and is very fast and memory-efficient (even slightly more so than our two-step process) but unless you know precisely what is happening here (that is, the second dict is being passed as keyword arguments to the dict constructor), it's difficult to read, it's not the intended usage, and so it is not Pythonic.

Here's an example of the usage being remediated in django.

Dictionaries are intended to take hashable keys (e.g. s or tuples), but this method fails in Python 3 when keys are not strings.

From the mailing list, Guido van Rossum, the creator of the language, wrote:

I am fine with
declaring dict({}, **{1:3}) illegal, since after all it is abuse of
the ** mechanism.

and

Apparently dict(x, **y) is going around as "cool hack" for "call
x.update(y) and return x". Personally, I find it more despicable than
cool.

It is my understanding (as well as the understanding of the creator of the language) that the intended usage for  is for creating dictionaries for readability purposes, e.g.:

instead of

Response to comments

Despite what Guido says,  is in line with the dict specification, which btw. works for both Python 2 and 3. The fact that this only works for string keys is a direct consequence of how keyword parameters work and not a short-coming of dict. Nor is using the ** operator in this place an abuse of the mechanism, in fact, ** was designed precisely to pass dictionaries as keywords.

Again, it doesn't work for 3 when keys are not strings. The implicit calling contract is that namespaces take ordinary dictionaries, while users must only pass keyword arguments that are strings. All other callables enforced it.  broke this consistency in Python 2:

This inconsistency was bad given other implementations of Python (PyPy, Jython, IronPython). Thus it was fixed in Python 3, as this usage could be a breaking change.

I submit to you that it is malicious incompetence to intentionally write code that only works in one version of a language or that only works given certain arbitrary constraints.

More comments:

 is still the most readable solution for Python 2. Readability counts.

My response:  actually seems much clearer to me, if we're actually concerned about readability. And it is not forward compatible, as Python 2 is increasingly deprecated.

 does not seem to handle nested dictionaries. the contents of nested keys are simply overwritten, not merged [...] I ended up being burnt by these answers that do not merge recursively and I was surprised no one mentioned it. In my interpretation of the word "merging" these answers describe "updating one dict with another", and not merging.

Yes. I must refer you back to the question, which is asking for a shallow merge of two dictionaries, with the first's values being overwritten by the second's - in a single expression.

Assuming two dictionaries of dictionaries, one might recursively merge them in a single function, but you should be careful not to modify the dictionaries from either source, and the surest way to avoid that is to make a copy when assigning values. As keys must be hashable and are usually therefore immutable, it is pointless to copy them:

Usage:

Coming up with contingencies for other value types is far beyond the scope of this question, so I will point you at my answer to the canonical question on a "Dictionaries of dictionaries merge".
Less Performant But Correct Ad-hocs

These approaches are less performant, but they will provide correct behavior.
They will be much less performant than  and  or the new unpacking because they iterate through each key-value pair at a higher level of abstraction, but they do respect the order of precedence (latter dictionaries have precedence)

You can also chain the dictionaries manually inside a dict comprehension:

or in Python 2.6 (and perhaps as early as 2.4 when generator expressions were introduced):

 will chain the iterators over the key-value pairs in the correct order:

Performance Analysis

I'm only going to do the performance analysis of the usages known to behave correctly. (Self-contained so you can copy and paste yourself.)

In Python 3.8.1, NixOS:

Resources on Dictionaries

- My explanation of Python's dictionary implementation, updated for 3.6.

- Answer on how to add new keys to a dictionary

- Mapping two lists into a dictionary

- The official Python docs on dictionaries

- The Dictionary Even Mightier - talk by Brandon Rhodes at Pycon 2017

- Modern Python Dictionaries, A Confluence of Great Ideas - talk by Raymond Hettinger at Pycon 2017

A: Yes, it was added in version 2.5. The expression syntax is:

First  is evaluated, then exactly one of either  or  is evaluated and returned based on the Boolean value of . If  evaluates to , then  is evaluated and returned but  is ignored, or else when  is evaluated and returned but  is ignored.

This allows short-circuiting because when  is true only  is evaluated and  is not evaluated at all, but when  is false only  is evaluated and  is not evaluated at all.

For example:

Note that conditionals are an expression, not a statement. This means you can't use statements such as , or assignments with  (or "augmented" assignments like ), within a conditional expression:

(In 3.8 and above, the  "walrus" operator allows simple assignment of values as an expression, which is then compatible with this syntax. But please don't write code like that; it will quickly become very difficult to understand.)

Similarly, because it is an expression, the  part is mandatory:

You can, however, use conditional expressions to assign a variable like so:

Or for example to return a value:

Think of the conditional expression as switching between two values. We can use it when we are in a 'one value or another' situation, where we will do the same thing with the result, regardless of whether the condition is met. We use the expression to compute the value, and then do something with it. If you need to do something different depending on the condition, then use a normal  statement instead.

Keep in mind that it's frowned upon by some Pythonistas for several reasons:

- The order of the arguments is different from those of the classic  ternary operator from many other languages (such as C, C++, Go, Perl, Ruby, Java, JavaScript, etc.), which may lead to bugs when people unfamiliar with Python's "surprising" behaviour use it (they may reverse the argument order).

- Some find it "unwieldy", since it goes contrary to the normal flow of thought (thinking of the condition first and then the effects).

- Stylistic reasons. (Although the 'inline ' can be really useful, and make your script more concise, it really does complicate your code)

If you're having trouble remembering the order, then remember that when read aloud, you (almost) say what you mean. For example,  is read aloud as .

Official documentation:

- Conditional expressions

- Is there an equivalent of C’s ”?:” ternary operator?

A: Classes are objects

Before delving into metaclasses, a solid grasp of Python classes is beneficial. Python holds a particularly distinctive concept of classes, a notion it adopts from the Smalltalk language.

In most languages, classes are descriptions of how to create an object. That is somewhat true in Python too:

But classes are more than that in Python. Classes are objects too.

Yes, objects.

When a Python script runs, every line of code is executed from top to bottom. When the Python interpreter encounters the  keyword, Python creates an object out of the "description" of the class that follows. Thus, the following instruction

...creates an object with the name !

This object (the class) is itself capable of creating objects (called instances).

But still, it's an object. Therefore, like all objects:

- 

you can assign it to a variable1

- 

you can attach attributes to it

- 

you can pass it as a function parameter

1 Note that merely assigning it to another variable doesn't change the class's , i.e.,

Creating classes dynamically

Since classes are objects, you can create them on the fly, like any object.

First, you can create a class in a function using :

But it's not so dynamic, since you still have to write the whole class yourself.

Since classes are objects, they must be generated by something.

When you use the  keyword, Python creates this object automatically. But as
with most things in Python, it gives you a way to do it manually.

Remember the function ? The good old function that lets you know what
type an object is:

Well,  also has a completely different ability: it can create classes on the fly.  can take the description of a class as parameters,
and return a class.

(I  know, it's silly that the same function can have two completely different uses according to the parameters you pass to it. It's an issue due to backward
compatibility in Python)

 works this way:

Where:

- : name of the class

- : tuple of the parent class (for inheritance, can be empty)

- : dictionary containing attributes names and values

e.g.:

can be created manually this way:

You'll notice that we use  as the name of the class
and as the variable to hold the class reference. They can be different,
but there is no reason to complicate things.

 accepts a dictionary to define the attributes of the class. So:

Can be translated to:

And used as a normal class:

And of course, you can inherit from it, so:

would be:

Eventually, you'll want to add methods to your class. Just define a function
with the proper signature and assign it as an attribute.

And you can add even more methods after you dynamically create the class, just like adding methods to a normally created class object.

You see where we are going: in Python, classes are objects, and you can create a class on the fly, dynamically.

This is what Python does when you use the keyword , and it does so by using a metaclass.
What are metaclasses (finally)

Metaclasses are the 'stuff' that creates classes.

You define classes in order to create objects, right?

But we learned that Python classes are objects.

Well, metaclasses are what create these objects. They are the classes' classes,
you can picture them this way:

You've seen that  lets you do something like this:

It's because the function  is in fact a metaclass.  is the
metaclass Python uses to create all classes behind the scenes.

Now you wonder "why the heck is it written in lowercase, and not ?"

Well, I guess it's a matter of consistency with , the class that creates
strings objects, and  the class that creates integer objects.  is
just the class that creates class objects.

You see that by checking the  attribute.

Everything, and I mean everything, is an object in Python. That includes integers,
strings, functions and classes. All of them are objects. And all of them have
been created from a class:

Now, what is the  of any  ?

So, a metaclass is just the stuff that creates class objects.

You can call it a 'class factory' if you wish.

 is the built-in metaclass Python uses, but of course, you can create your
own metaclass.
The  attribute

In Python 2, you can add a  attribute when you write a class (see next section for the Python 3 syntax):

If you do so, Python will use the metaclass to create the class .

Careful, it's tricky.

You write  first, but the class object  is not created
in memory yet.

Python will look for  in the class definition. If it finds it,
it will use it to create the class object . If it doesn't, it will use
 to create the class.

Read that several times.

When you do:

Python does the following:

Is there a  attribute in ?

If yes, create in-memory a class object (I said a class object, stay with me here), with the name  by using what is in .

If Python can't find , it will look for a  at the MODULE level, and try to do the same (but only for classes that don't inherit anything, basically old-style classes).

Then if it can't find any  at all, it will use the 's (the first parent) own metaclass (which might be the default ) to create the class object.

Be careful here that the  attribute will not be inherited, the metaclass of the parent () will be. If  used a  attribute that created  with  (and not ), the subclasses will not inherit that behavior.

Now the big question is, what can you put in ?

The answer is something that can create a class.

And what can create a class? , or anything that subclasses or uses it.
Metaclasses in Python 3

The syntax to set the metaclass has been changed in Python 3:

i.e. the  attribute is no longer used, in favor of a keyword argument in the list of base classes.

The behavior of metaclasses however stays largely the same.

One thing added to metaclasses in Python 3 is that you can also pass attributes as keyword-arguments into a metaclass, like so:

Read the section below for how Python handles this.
Custom metaclasses

The main purpose of a metaclass is to change the class automatically,
when it's created.

You usually do this for APIs, where you want to create classes matching the
current context.

Imagine a stupid example, where you decide that all classes in your module
should have their attributes written in uppercase. There are several ways to
do this, but one way is to set  at the module level.

This way, all classes of this module will be created using this metaclass,
and we just have to tell the metaclass to turn all attributes to uppercase.

Luckily,  can actually be any callable, it doesn't need to be a
formal class (I know, something with 'class' in its name doesn't need to be
a class, go figure... but it's helpful).

So we will start with a simple example, by using a function.

Let's check:

Now, let's do exactly the same, but using a real class for a metaclass:

Let's rewrite the above, but with shorter and more realistic variable names now that we know what they mean:

You may have noticed the extra argument . There is
nothing special about it:  always receives the class it's defined in, as the first parameter. Just like you have  for ordinary methods which receive the instance as the first parameter, or the defining class for class methods.

But this is not proper OOP. We are calling  directly and we aren't overriding or calling the parent's . Let's do that instead:

We can make it even cleaner by using , which will ease inheritance (because yes, you can have metaclasses, inheriting from metaclasses, inheriting from type):

Oh, and in Python 3 if you do this call with keyword arguments, like this:

It translates to this in the metaclass to use it:

That's it. There is really nothing more about metaclasses.

The reason behind the complexity of the code using metaclasses is not because
of metaclasses, it's because you usually use metaclasses to do twisted stuff
relying on introspection, manipulating inheritance, vars such as , etc.

Indeed, metaclasses are especially useful to do black magic, and therefore
complicated stuff. But by themselves, they are simple:

- intercept a class creation

- modify the class

- return the modified class

Why would you use metaclasses classes instead of functions?

Since  can accept any callable, why would you use a class
since it's obviously more complicated?

There are several reasons to do so:

- The intention is clear. When you read , you know
what's going to follow

- You can use OOP. Metaclass can inherit from metaclass, override parent methods. Metaclasses can even use metaclasses.

- Subclasses of a class will be instances of its metaclass if you specified a metaclass-class, but not with a metaclass-function.

- You can structure your code better. You never use metaclasses for something as trivial as the above example. It's usually for something complicated. Having the ability to make several methods and group them in one class is very useful to make the code easier to read.

- You can hook on ,  and . Which will allow you to do different stuff, Even if usually you can do it all in ,
some people are just more comfortable using .

- These are called metaclasses, damn it! It must mean something!

Why would you use metaclasses?

Now the big question. Why would you use some obscure error-prone feature?

Well, usually you don't:

Metaclasses are deeper magic that
99% of users should never worry about it.
If you wonder whether you need them,
you don't (the people who actually
need them know with certainty that
they need them, and don't need an
explanation about why).

Python Guru Tim Peters

The main use case for a metaclass is creating an API. A typical example of this is the Django ORM. It allows you to define something like this:

But if you do this:

It won't return an  object. It will return an , and can even take it directly from the database.

This is possible because  defines  and
it uses some magic that will turn the  you just defined with simple statements
into a complex hook to a database field.

Django makes something complex look simple by exposing a simple API
and using metaclasses, recreating code from this API to do the real job
behind the scenes.
The last word

First, you know that classes are objects that can create instances.

Well, in fact, classes are themselves instances. Of metaclasses.

Everything is an object in Python, and they are all either instance of classes
or instances of metaclasses.

Except for .

 is actually its own metaclass. This is not something you could
reproduce in pure Python, and is done by cheating a little bit at the implementation
level.

Secondly, metaclasses are complicated. You may not want to use them for
very simple class alterations. You can change classes by using two different techniques:

- monkey patching

- class decorators

99% of the time you need class alteration, you are better off using these.

But 98% of the time, you don't need class alteration at all.

A: will prevent untracked files from being added (without an ) to the set of files tracked by Git. However, Git will continue to track any files that are already being tracked.

To stop tracking a file, we must remove it from the index:

To remove a folder and all files in the folder recursively:

The removal of the file from the head revision will happen on the next commit.

WARNING: While this will not remove the physical file from your local machine, it will remove the files from other developers' machines on their next .

A: Use the built-in function :

It is non-Pythonic to manually index via  or manually manage an additional state variable.

Check out PEP 279 for more.

A: Short Answer

It's boilerplate code that protects users from accidentally invoking the script when they didn't intend to. Here are some common problems when the guard is omitted from a script:

- 

If you import the guardless script in another script (e.g. ), then the latter script will trigger the former to run at import time and using the second script's command line arguments. This is almost always a mistake.

- 

If you have a custom class in the guardless script and save it to a pickle file, then unpickling it in another script will trigger an import of the guardless script, with the same problems outlined in the previous bullet.

Long Answer

To better understand why and how this matters, we need to take a step back to understand how Python initializes scripts and how this interacts with its module import mechanism.

Whenever the Python interpreter reads a source file, it does two things:

- 

it sets a few special variables like , and then

- 

it executes all of the code found in the file.

Let's see how this works and how it relates to your question about the  checks we always see in Python scripts.
Code Sample

Let's use a slightly different code sample to explore how imports and scripts work.  Suppose the following is in a file called .

Special Variables

When the Python interpreter reads a source file, it first defines a few special variables. In this case, we care about the  variable.

When Your Module Is the Main Program

If you are running your module (the source file) as the main program, e.g.

the interpreter will assign the hard-coded string  to the  variable, i.e.

When Your Module Is Imported By Another

On the other hand, suppose some other module is the main program and it imports your module. This means there's a statement like this in the main program, or in some other module the main program imports:

The interpreter will search for your  file (along with searching for a few other variants), and prior to executing that module, it will assign the name  from the import statement to the  variable, i.e.

Executing the Module's Code

After the special variables are set up, the interpreter executes all the code in the module, one statement at a time. You may want to open another window on the side with the code sample so you can follow along with this explanation.

Always

- 

It prints the string  (without quotes).

- 

It loads the  module and assigns it to a variable called . This is equivalent to replacing  with the following (note that  is a low-level function in Python that takes a string and triggers the actual import):

- 

It prints the string .

- 

It executes the  block, creating a function object, then assigning that function object to a variable called .

- 

It prints the string .

- 

It executes the second  block, creating another function object, then assigning it to a variable called .

- 

It prints the string .

Only When Your Module Is the Main Program

- If your module is the main program, then it will see that  was indeed set to  and it calls the two functions, printing the strings  and .

Only When Your Module Is Imported by Another

- (instead) If your module is not the main program but was imported by another one, then  will be , not , and it'll skip the body of the  statement.

Always

- It will print the string  in both situations.

Summary

In summary, here's what'd be printed in the two cases:

Why Does It Work This Way?

You might naturally wonder why anybody would want this.  Well, sometimes you want to write a  file that can be both used by other programs and/or modules as a module, and can also be run as the main program itself.  Examples:

- 

Your module is a library, but you want to have a script mode where it runs some unit tests or a demo.

- 

Your module is only used as a main program, but it has some unit tests, and the testing framework works by importing  files like your script and running special test functions. You don't want it to try running the script just because it's importing the module.

- 

Your module is mostly used as a main program, but it also provides a programmer-friendly API for advanced users.

Beyond those examples, it's elegant that running a script in Python is just setting up a few magic variables and importing the script. "Running" the script is a side effect of importing the script's module.
Food for Thought

- 

Question: Can I have multiple  checking blocks?  Answer: it's strange to do so, but the language won't stop you.

- 

Suppose the following is in .  What happens if you say  on the command-line? Why?

- Now, figure out what will happen in  (having removed the  check):

- What will this do when used as a script?  When imported as a module?

A: In Git 1.7.0 and later, you can checkout a new branch:

Edit files, add and commit. Then push with the  (short for ) option:

Git will set up the tracking information during the push.

A: UPDATE January, 2017:

According to Can I use, the  +  for Safari is enough to achieve desired behavior in all major browsers.

These are all of the available correct CSS variations:








Note that  is in standardization process (currently in a W3C working draft). It is not guaranteed to work everywhere and there might be differences in implementation among browsers. Also, browsers can drop support for it in the future.

More information can be found in Mozilla Developer Network documentation.

The values of this attribute are , , , , ,  and .

A: WARNING: You need to store uncommitted edits to your stash before doing this, using . Once complete, you can retrieve the stashed uncommitted edits with . git reset hard command will remove all changes!
Moving to an existing branch

If you want to move your commits to an existing branch, it will look like this:

Moving to a new branch

WARNING: This method works because you are creating a new branch with the first command: . If you want to move commits to an existing branch you need to merge your changes into the existing branch before executing  (see Moving to an existing branch above). If you don't merge your changes first, they will be lost.

Unless there are other circumstances involved, this can be easily done by branching and rolling back.

But do make sure how many commits to go back. Alternatively, you can instead of , simply provide the hash of the commit (or the reference like origin/master) you want to "revert back to" on the master (/current) branch, e.g:

Note: You will only be "losing" commits from the master branch, but don't worry, you'll have those commits in newbranch! An easy way to check that, after completing the 4 step sequence of commands above, is by looking at  which will show the history of newbranch actually retained the 3 commits (and the reason is that newbranch was created at the time those changes were already commited on master!). They have only been removed from master, as  only affected the branch that was checked out at the time of its execution, i.e. master (see git reset description: Reset current HEAD to the specified state).  however will not show any checkouts on the newbranch, which might be surprising at first but that is actually expected.

Lastly, you may need to force push your latest changes to main repo:

WARNING: With Git version 2.0 and later, if you later  the new branch upon the original () branch, you may need an explicit  option during the rebase to avoid losing the carried-over commits.  Having  set makes this more likely.  See John Mellor's answer for details.

A: TL;DR

- 

Your best bets are usually

- a  loop (ES2015+ only; spec | MDN) - simple and -friendly

-  (ES5+ only; spec | MDN) (or its relatives  and such) - not -friendly (but see details)

- a simple old-fashioned  loop - -friendly

- (rarely)  with safeguards - -friendly

- 

Some quick "don't"s:

- Don't use  unless you use it with safeguards or are at least aware of why it might bite you.

- Don't use  if you're not using its return value.
(There's sadly someone out there teaching  [spec / MDN] as though it were  — but as I write on my blog, that's not what it's for. If you aren't using the array it creates, don't use .)

- Don't use  if the callback does asynchronous work and you want the  to wait until that work is done (because it won't).

But there's lots more to explore, read on...

JavaScript has powerful semantics for looping through arrays and array-like objects. I've split the answer into two parts: Options for genuine arrays, and options for things that are just array-like, such as the  object, other iterable objects (ES2015+), DOM collections, and so on.

Okay, let's look at our options:
For Actual Arrays

You have five options (two supported basically forever, another added by ECMAScript 5 ["ES5"], and two more added in ECMAScript 2015 ("ES2015", aka "ES6"):

- Use  (use an iterator implicitly) (ES2015+)

- Use  and related (ES5+)

- Use a simple  loop

- Use  correctly

- Use an iterator explicitly (ES2015+)

(You can see those old specs here: ES5, ES2015, but both have been superceded; the current editor's draft is always here.)

Details:
1. Use  (use an iterator implicitly) (ES2015+)

ES2015 added iterators and iterables to JavaScript. Arrays are iterable (so are strings, s, and s, as well as DOM collections and lists, as you'll see later). Iterable objects provide iterators for their values. The new  statement loops through the values returned by an iterator:







It doesn't get simpler than that! Under the covers, that gets an iterator from the array and loops through the values the iterator returns. The iterator provided by arrays provides the values of the array elements, in order beginning to end.

Notice how  is scoped to each loop iteration; trying to use  after the end of the loop would fail because it doesn't exist outside the loop body.

In theory, a  loop involves several function calls (one to get the iterator, then one to get each value from it). Even when that's true, it's nothing to worry about, function calls are very cheap in modern JavaScript engines (it bothered me for  [below] until I looked into it; details). But additionally, JavaScript engines optimize those calls away (in performance-critical code) when dealing with native iterators for things like arrays.

 is entirely -friendly. If you need the work in a loop body to be done in series (not in parallel), an  in the loop body will wait for the promise to settle before continuing. Here's a silly example:







Note how the words appear with a delay before each one.

It's a matter of coding style, but  is the first thing I reach for when looping through anything iterable.
2. Use  and related

In any even vaguely-modern environment (so, not IE8) where you have access to the  features added by ES5, you can use  (spec | MDN) if you're only dealing with synchronous code (or you don't need to wait for an asynchronous process to finish during the loop):







 accepts a callback function and, optionally, a value to use as  when calling that callback (not used above). The callback is called for each element in the array, in order, skipping non-existent elements in sparse arrays. Although I only used one parameter above, the callback is called with three arguments: The element for that iteration, the index of that element, and a reference to the array you're iterating over (in case your function doesn't already have it handy).

Like ,  has the advantage that you don't have to declare indexing and value variables in the containing scope; in this case, they're supplied as arguments to the iteration function, and so nicely scoped to just that iteration.

Unlike ,  has the disadvantage that it doesn't understand  functions and . If you use an  function as the callback,  does not wait for that function's promise to settle before continuing. Here's the  example from  using  instead — notice how there's an initial delay, but then all the text appears right away instead of waiting:







 is the "loop through them all" function, but ES5 defined several other useful "work your way through the array and do things" functions, including:

-  (spec | MDN) - stops looping the first time the callback returns a falsy value

-  (spec | MDN) - stops looping the first time the callback returns a truthy value

-  (spec | MDN) - creates a new array including elements where the callback returns a truthy value, omitting the ones where it doesn't

-  (spec | MDN) - creates a new array from the values returned by the callback

-  (spec | MDN) - builds up a value by repeatedly calling the callback, passing in previous values; see the spec for the details

-  (spec | MDN) - like , but works in descending rather than ascending order

As with , if you use an  function as your callback, none of those waits for the function's promise to settle. That means:

- Using an  function callback is never appropriate with , , and  since they will treat the returned promise as though it were a truthy value; they don't wait for the promise to settle and then use the fulfillment value.

- Using an  function callback is often appropriate with , if the goal is to turn an array of something into an array of promises, perhaps for passing to one of the promise combinator functions (, , , or ).

- Using an  function callback is rarely appropriate with  or , because (again) the callback will always return a promise. But there is an idiom of building a chain of promises from an array that uses  (), but usually in those cases a  or  loop in an  function will be clearer and easier to debug.

3. Use a simple  loop

Sometimes the old ways are the best:







If the length of the array won't change during the loop, and it's in highly performance-sensitive code, a slightly more complicated version grabbing the length up front might be a tiny bit faster:







And/or counting backward:







But with modern JavaScript engines, it's rare you need to eke out that last bit of juice.

Before ES2015, the loop variable had to exist in the containing scope, because  only has function-level scope, not block-level scope. But as you saw in the examples above, you can use  within the  to scope the variables to just the loop. And when you do that, the  variable is recreated for each loop iteration, meaning closures created in the loop body keep a reference to the  for that specific iteration, which solves the old "closures in loops" problem:








In the above, you get "Index is: 0" if you click the first and "Index is: 4" if you click the last. This does not work if you use  instead of  (you'd always see "Index is: 5").

Like ,  loops work well in  functions. Here's the earlier example using a  loop:







4. Use  correctly

 isn't for looping through arrays, it's for looping through the names of an object's properties. It does often seem to work for looping through arrays as a by-product of the fact that arrays are objects, but it doesn't just loop through the array indexes, it loops through all enumerable properties of the object (including inherited ones). (It also used to be that the order wasn't specified; it is now [details in this other answer], but even though the order is specified now, the rules are complex, there are exceptions, and relying on the order is not best practice.)

The only real use cases for  on an array are:

- It's a sparse array with massive gaps in it, or

- You're using non-element properties on the array object and you want to include them in the loop

Looking only at that first example: You can use  to visit those sparse array elements if you use appropriate safeguards:







Note the three checks:

- 

That the object has its own property by that name (not one it inherits from its prototype; this check is also often written as  but ES2022 adds  which can be more reliable), and

- 

That the name is all decimal digits (e.g., normal string form, not scientific notation), and

- 

That the name's value when coerced to a number is in the specification. Other numbers (non-integers, negative numbers, numbers greater than 2^32 - 2) are not array indexes. The reason it's 2^32 - 2 is that that makes the greatest index value one lower than 2^32 - 1, which is the maximum value an array's  can have. (E.g., an array's length fits in a 32-bit unsigned integer.)

...although with that said, most code only does the  check.

You wouldn't do that in inline code, of course. You'd write a utility function. Perhaps:







Like ,  works well in asynchronous functions if the work within it needs to be done in series.







5. Use an iterator explicitly (ES2015+)

 uses an iterator implicitly, doing all the scut work for you. Sometimes, you might want to use an iterator explicitly. It looks like this:







An iterator is an object matching the Iterator definition in the specification. Its  method returns a new result object each time you call it. The result object has a property, , telling us whether it's done, and a property  with the value for that iteration. ( is optional if it would be ,  is optional if it would be .)

What you get for  varies depending on the iterator. On arrays, the default iterator provides the value of each array element (, , and  in the example earlier). Arrays also have three other methods that return iterators:

- : This is an alias for the  method that returns the default iterator.

- : Returns an iterator that provides each key (index) in the array. In the example above, it would provide , then , then  (as numbers, not strings). (Also note that in a sparse array, it will include indexes for elements that don't exist.)

- : Returns an iterator that provides  arrays.

Since iterator objects don't advance until you call , they work well in  function loops. Here's the earlier  example using the iterator explicitly:







For Array-Like Objects

Aside from true arrays, there are also array-like objects that have a  property and properties with all-digits names:  instances,  instances, the  object, etc. How do we loop through their contents?
Use most of the options above

At least some, and possibly most or even all, of the array approaches above apply equally well to array-like objects:

- 

Use  (use an iterator implicitly) (ES2015+)

 uses the iterator provided by the object (if any). That includes host-provided objects (like DOM collections and lists). For instance,  instances from  methods and s instances from  both support iteration. (This is defined quite subtly by the HTML and DOM specifications. Basically, any object with  and indexed access is automatically iterable. It doesn't have to be marked ; that is used only for collections that, in addition to being iterable, support , , , and  methods.  does;  doesn't, but both are iterable.)

Here's an example of looping through  elements:








- 

Use  and related (ES5+)

The various functions on  are "intentionally generic" and can be used on array-like objects via  (spec | MDN) or  (spec | MDN). (If you have to deal with IE8 or earlier [ouch], see the "Caveat for host-provided objects" at the end of this answer, but it's not an issue with vaguely-modern browsers.)

Suppose you wanted to use  on a 's  collection (which, being an , doesn't have  natively). You'd do this:

(Note, though, that you could just use  on .)

If you're going to do that a lot, you might want to grab a copy of the function reference into a variable for reuse, e.g.:

- 

Use a simple  loop

Perhaps obviously, a simple  loop works for array-like objects.

- 

Use an iterator explicitly (ES2015+)

See #1.

You may be able to get away with  (with safeguards), but with all of these more appropriate options, there's no reason to try.
Create a true array

Other times, you may want to convert an array-like object into a true array. Doing that is surprisingly easy:

- 

Use 

 (spec) | (MDN) (ES2015+, but easily polyfilled) creates an array from an array-like object, optionally passing the entries through a mapping function first. So:

...takes the  from  and makes an array from it.

The mapping function is handy if you were going to map the contents in some way. For instance, if you wanted to get an array of the tag names of the elements with a given class:

- 

Use spread syntax ()

It's also possible to use ES2015's spread syntax. Like , this uses the iterator provided by the object (see #1 in the previous section):

So for instance, if we want to convert a  into a true array, with spread syntax this becomes quite succinct:

- 

Use the  method of arrays

We can use the  method of arrays, which like the other methods mentioned above is "intentionally generic" and so can be used with array-like objects, like this:

So for instance, if we want to convert a  into a true array, we could do this:

(If you still have to handle IE8 [ouch], will fail; IE8 didn't let you use host-provided objects as  like that.)

Caveat for host-provided objects

If you use  functions with host-provided array-like objects (for example, DOM collections and such provided by the browser rather than the JavaScript engine), obsolete browsers like IE8 didn't necessarily handle that way, so if you have to support them, be sure to test in your target environments. But it's not an issue with vaguely-modern browsers. (For non-browser environments, naturally it'll depend on the environment.)

A: Scoping rules

The main difference is scoping rules. Variables declared by  keyword are scoped to the immediate function body (hence the function scope) while  variables are scoped to the immediate enclosing block denoted by  (hence the block scope).







The reason why  keyword was introduced to the language was function scope is confusing and was one of the main sources of bugs in JavaScript.

Take a look at this example from another Stack Overflow question:







 was output to console each time  was invoked since anonymous functions were bound to the same variable.

People had to create immediately invoked functions to capture correct values from the loops but that was also hairy.
Hoisting

Variables declared with  keyword are hoisted and initialized which means they are accessible in their enclosing scope even before they are declared, however their value is  before the declaration statement is reached:







 variables are hoisted but not initialized until their definition is evaluated. Accessing them before the initialization results in a . The variable is said to be in the temporal dead zone from the start of the block until the declaration statement is processed.







Creating global object property

At the top level, , unlike , does not create a property on the global object:







Redeclaration

In strict mode,  will let you re-declare the same variable in the same scope while  raises a SyntaxError.

A: You can push an 'empty' reference to the remote tag name:

Or, more expressively, use the  option (or  if your git version is older than 1.8.0):

Note that git has tag namespace and branch namespace so you may use the same name for a branch and for a tag. If you want to make sure that you cannot accidentally remove the branch instead of the tag, you can specify full ref which will never delete a branch:

If you also need to delete the local tag, use:

or

Background

Pushing a branch, tag, or other ref to a remote repository involves specifying "which repo, what source, what destination?"

A real world example where you push your master branch to the origin's master branch is:

Which because of default paths, can be shortened to:

Tags work the same way:

Which can also be shortened to:

By omitting the source ref (the part before the colon), you push 'nothing' to the destination, deleting the ref on the remote end.

A: A closure is a pairing of:

- A function and

- A reference to that function's outer scope (lexical environment)

A lexical environment is part of every execution context (stack frame) and is a map between identifiers (i.e. local variable names) and values.

Every function in JavaScript maintains a reference to its outer lexical environment. This reference is used to configure the execution context created when a function is invoked. This reference enables code inside the function to "see" variables declared outside the function, regardless of when and where the function is called.

If a function was called by a function, which in turn was called by another function, then a chain of references to outer lexical environments is created. This chain is called the scope chain.

In the following code,  forms a closure with the lexical environment of the execution context created when  is invoked, closing over variable :







In other words: in JavaScript, functions carry a reference to a private "box of state", to which only they (and any other functions declared within the same lexical environment) have access. This box of the state is invisible to the caller of the function, delivering an excellent mechanism for data-hiding and encapsulation.

And remember: functions in JavaScript can be passed around like variables (first-class functions), meaning these pairings of functionality and state can be passed around your program, similar to how you might pass an instance of a class around in C++.

If JavaScript did not have closures, then more states would have to be passed between functions explicitly, making parameter lists longer and code noisier.

So, if you want a function to always have access to a private piece of state, you can use a closure.

...and frequently we do want to associate the state with a function. For example, in Java or C++, when you add a private instance variable and a method to a class, you are associating the state with functionality.

In C and most other common languages, after a function returns, all the local variables are no longer accessible because the stack-frame is destroyed. In JavaScript, if you declare a function within another function, then the local variables of the outer function can remain accessible after returning from it. In this way, in the code above,  remains available to the function object , after it has been returned from .
Uses of Closures

Closures are useful whenever you need a private state associated with a function. This is a very common scenario - and remember: JavaScript did not have a class syntax until 2015, and it still does not have a private field syntax. Closures meet this need.
Private Instance Variables

In the following code, the function  closes over the details of the car.







Functional Programming

In the following code, the function  closes over both  and .







Event-Oriented Programming

In the following code, function  closes over variable .








Modularization

In the following example, all the implementation details are hidden inside an immediately executed function expression. The functions  and  close over the private state and functions they need to complete their work. Closures have enabled us to modularize and encapsulate our code.







Examples
Example 1

This example shows that the local variables are not copied in the closure: the closure maintains a reference to the original variables themselves. It is as though the stack-frame stays alive in memory even after the outer function exits.







Example 2

In the following code, three methods , , and  all close over the same lexical environment.

And every time  is called, a new execution context (stack frame) is created and a completely new variable , and a new set of functions ( etc.) are created, that close over this new variable.







Example 3

If you are using variables declared using , be careful you understand which variable you are closing over. Variables declared using  are hoisted. This is much less of a problem in modern JavaScript due to the introduction of  and .

In the following code, each time around the loop, a new function  is created, which closes over . But because  is hoisted outside the loop, all of these inner functions close over the same variable, meaning that the final value of  (3) is printed, three times.







Final points:

- Whenever a function is declared in JavaScript closure is created.

- Returning a  from inside another function is the classic example of closure, because the state inside the outer function is implicitly available to the returned inner function, even after the outer function has completed execution.

- Whenever you use  inside a function, a closure is used. The text you  can reference local variables of the function, and in the non-strict mode, you can even create new local variables by using .

- When you use  (the Function constructor) inside a function, it does not close over its lexical environment: it closes over the global context instead. The new function cannot reference the local variables of the outer function.

- A closure in JavaScript is like keeping a reference (NOT a copy) to the scope at the point of function declaration, which in turn keeps a reference to its outer scope, and so on, all the way to the global object at the top of the scope chain.

- A closure is created when a function is declared; this closure is used to configure the execution context when the function is invoked.

- A new set of local variables is created every time a function is called.

Links

- Douglas Crockford's simulated private attributes and private methods for an object, using closures.

- A great explanation of how closures can cause memory leaks in IE if you are not careful.

- MDN documentation on JavaScript Closures.

- The Beginner's Guide to JavaScript Closures.

A: is a useful one-liner which will give you the full directory name of the script no matter where it is being called from.

It will work as long as the last component of the path used to find the script is not a symlink (directory links are OK).  If you also want to resolve any links to the script itself, you need a multi-line solution:

This last one will work with any combination of aliases, , , symlinks, etc.

Beware: if you  to a different directory before running this snippet, the result may be incorrect!

Also, watch out for  gotchas, and stderr output side effects if the user has smartly overridden cd to redirect output to stderr instead (including escape sequences, such as when calling  on Mac). Adding  at the end of your  command will take care of both possibilities.

To understand how it works, try running this more verbose form:

And it will print something like:

A: It’s a holdover from the Netscape days:

Missing digits are treated as 0[...]. An incorrect digit is simply interpreted as 0. For example the values #F0F0F0, F0F0F0, F0F0F, #FxFxFx and FxFxFx are all the same.

It is from the blog post A little rant about Microsoft Internet Explorer's color parsing which covers it in great detail, including varying lengths of color values, etc.

If we apply the rules in turn from the blog post, we get the following:

- 

Replace all nonvalid hexadecimal characters with 0’s:

- 

Pad out to the next total number of characters divisible by 3 (11 → 12):

- 

Split into three equal groups, with each component representing the corresponding colour component of an RGB colour:

- 

Truncate each of the arguments from the right down to two characters.

Which, finally, gives the following result:

Here’s an example demonstrating the  attribute in action, to produce this “amazing” colour swatch:







This also answers the other part of the question: Why does  produce a yellow colour? Well, if we apply the rules, the string is:

Which gives a light yellow gold colour. As the string starts off as 9 characters, we keep the second ‘C’ this time around, hence it ends up in the final colour value.

I originally encountered this when someone pointed out that you could do  and, well, it comes out brown.

A: Some other answers modify  (this answer used to as well), but I would advise against this now due to maintainability (hard to find out where the function is being added to the  and could cause conflicts if other code uses the same name/a browser adds a native function with that same name in future).

A: To obtain only the remote URL:

If you require full output, and you are on a network that can reach the remote repo where the origin resides:

When using  (from GitHub, or any source repository for that matter) the default name for the source of the clone is "origin". Using  will display the information about this remote name. The first few lines should show:

If you want to use the value in a script, you would use the first command listed in this answer.

A: Assuming the hash of the commit you want is :

The git restore man page gives more information.

If you want to revert to the commit before , append  (where 1 is the number of commits you want to go back, it can be anything):

(Feb 2026) A previous version of this answer explained how to use the  command to accomplish the same thing. The newer  command is a better option.

A: The notion that regex doesn't support inverse matching is not entirely true. You can mimic this behavior by using negative look-arounds:

The regex above will match any string, or line without a line break, not containing the (sub)string 'hede'. As mentioned, this is not something regex is "good" at (or should do), but still, it is possible.

And if you need to match line break chars as well, use the DOT-ALL modifier (the trailing  in the following pattern):

or use it inline:

(where the  are the regex delimiters, i.e., not part of the pattern)

If the DOT-ALL modifier is not available, you can mimic the same behavior with the character class :

Explanation

A string is just a list of  characters. Before, and after each character, there's an empty string. So a list of  characters will have  empty strings. Consider the string :

where the 's are the empty strings. The regex  looks ahead to see if there's no substring  to be seen, and if that is the case (so something else is seen), then the  (dot) will match any character except a line break. Look-arounds are also called zero-width-assertions because they don't consume any characters. They only assert/validate something.

So, in my example, every empty string is first validated to see if there's no  up ahead, before a character is consumed by the  (dot). The regex  will do that only once, so it is wrapped in a group, and repeated zero or more times: . Finally, the start- and end-of-input are anchored to make sure the entire input is consumed: 

As you can see, the input  will fail because on , the regex  fails (there is  up ahead!).

A: For all unstaged files in current working directory use:

For a specific file use:

That together with  replaces the overloaded  (see here), and thus removes the argument disambiguation.

If a file has both staged and unstaged changes, only the unstaged changes shown in  are reverted. Changes shown in  stay intact.

Before Git 2.23

For all unstaged files in current working directory:

For a specific file:

 here to remove ambiguity (this is known as  argument disambiguation).

A: A list of lists named  can be flattened using a nested list comprehension:

The above is equivalent to:

Here is the corresponding function:

This is the fastest method.
As evidence, using the  module in the standard library, we see:

Explanation: the methods based on  (including the implied use in ) are, of necessity,  when there are L sublists -- as the intermediate result list keeps getting longer, at each step a new intermediate result list object gets allocated, and all the items in the previous intermediate result must be copied over (as well as a few new ones added at the end). So, for simplicity and without actual loss of generality, say you have L sublists of M items each: the first M items are copied back and forth  times, the second M items  times, and so on; total number of copies is M times the sum of x for x from 1 to L excluded, i.e., .

The list comprehension just generates one list, once, and copies each item over (from its original place of residence to the result list) also exactly once.

A: On Python ≥ 3.5, use :

For older versions of Python, I see two answers with good qualities, each with a small flaw, so I will give my take on it:

Try , and consider  for the creation.

As noted in comments and elsewhere, there's a race condition &ndash; if the directory is created between the  and the  calls, the  will fail with an . Unfortunately, blanket-catching  and continuing is not foolproof, as it will ignore a failure to create the directory due to other factors, such as insufficient permissions, full disk, etc.

One option would be to trap the  and examine the embedded error code (see Is there a cross-platform way of getting information from Python’s OSError):

Alternatively, there could be a second , but suppose another created the directory after the first check, then removed it before the second one &ndash; we could still be fooled. 

Depending on the application, the danger of concurrent operations may be more or less than the danger posed by other factors such as file permissions. The developer would have to know more about the particular application being developed and its expected environment before choosing an implementation.

Modern versions of Python improve this code quite a bit, both by exposing  (in 3.3+)...

...and by allowing a keyword argument to  called  (in 3.2+).

A: No.

JSON is data-only. If you include a comment, then it must be data too.

You could have a designated data element called  (or something) that should be ignored by apps that use the JSON data.

You would probably be better having the comment in the processes that generates/receives the JSON, as they are supposed to know what the JSON data will be in advance, or at least the structure of it.

But if you decided to:

A: The strict equality operator () behaves identically to the abstract equality operator () except no type conversion is done, and the types must be the same to be considered equal.

Reference: JavaScript Tutorial: Comparison Operators

The  operator will compare for equality after doing any necessary type conversions.  The  operator will not do the conversion, so if two values are not the same type  will simply return . Both are equally quick.

To quote Douglas Crockford's excellent JavaScript: The Good Parts,

JavaScript has two sets of equality operators:  and , and their evil twins  and .  The good ones work the way you would expect.  If the two operands are of the same type and have the same value, then  produces  and  produces .  The evil twins do the right thing when the operands are of the same type, but if they are of different types, they attempt to coerce the values.  The rules by which they do that are complicated and unmemorable.  These are some of the interesting cases:

The lack of transitivity is alarming.  My advice is to never use the evil twins.  Instead, always use  and .  All of the comparisons just shown produce  with the  operator.

Update

A good point was brought up by @Casebash in the comments and in @Phillipe Laybaert's answer concerning objects.  For objects,  and  act consistently with one another (except in a special case).

The special case is when you compare a primitive with an object that evaluates to the same primitive, due to its  or  method. For example, consider the comparison of a string primitive with a string object created using the  constructor.

Here the  operator is checking the values of the two objects and returning , but the  is seeing that they're not the same type and returning .  Which one is correct?  That really depends on what you're trying to compare.  My advice is to bypass the question entirely and just don't use the  constructor to create string objects from string literals.

Reference

https://262.ecma-international.org/5.1/#sec-11.9.3

A: The terms "pass-by-value" and "pass-by-reference" have special, precisely defined meanings in computer science. These meanings differ from the intuition many people have when first hearing the terms. Much of the confusion in this discussion seems to come from this fact.

The terms "pass-by-value" and "pass-by-reference" are talking about variables. Pass-by-value means that the value of a variable is passed to a function/method. Pass-by-reference means that a reference to that variable is passed to the function. The latter gives the function a way to change the contents of the variable.

By those definitions, Java is always pass-by-value.  Unfortunately, when we deal with variables holding objects we are really dealing with object-handles called references which are passed-by-value as well. This terminology and semantics easily confuse many beginners.

It goes like this:

In this example,  will still return . The value  within  is not changed in the function  by creating new  with name member variable set to  because the object reference is passed by value. If the object reference was passed by reference, then the  in  would return  after the call to .

Likewise:

In this example,  is dog’s name after call to  because the object's name was set inside of . Any operations that  performs on  are such that, for all practical purposes, they are performed on , but it is not possible to change the value of the variable  itself.

For more information on pass by reference and pass by value, consult the following answer: https://stackoverflow.com/a/430958/6005228. This explains more thoroughly the semantics and history behind the two and also explains why Java and many other modern languages appear to do both in certain cases.

A: 1. Don't design your page, and then change it with DOM manipulations

In jQuery, you design a page, and then you make it dynamic. This is because jQuery was designed for augmentation and has grown incredibly from that simple premise.

But in AngularJS, you must start from the ground up with your architecture in mind. Instead of starting by thinking "I have this piece of the DOM and I want to make it do X", you have to start with what you want to accomplish, then go about designing your application, and then finally go about designing your view.

2. Don't augment jQuery with AngularJS

Similarly, don't start with the idea that jQuery does X, Y, and Z, so I'll just add AngularJS on top of that for models and controllers. This is really tempting when you're just starting out, which is why I always recommend that new AngularJS developers don't use jQuery at all, at least until they get used to doing things the "Angular Way".

I've seen many developers here and on the mailing list create these elaborate solutions with jQuery plugins of 150 or 200 lines of code that they then glue into AngularJS with a collection of callbacks and s that are confusing and convoluted; but they eventually get it working! The problem is that in most cases that jQuery plugin could be rewritten in AngularJS in a fraction of the code, where suddenly everything becomes comprehensible and straightforward.

The bottom line is this: when solutioning, first "think in AngularJS"; if you can't think of a solution, ask the community; if after all of that there is no easy solution, then feel free to reach for the jQuery. But don't let jQuery become a crutch or you'll never master AngularJS.

3. Always think in terms of architecture

First know that single-page applications are applications. They're not webpages. So we need to think like a server-side developer in addition to thinking like a client-side developer. We have to think about how to divide our application into individual, extensible, testable components.

So then how do you do that? How do you "think in AngularJS"? Here are some general principles, contrasted with jQuery.

The view is the "official record"

In jQuery, we programmatically change the view. We could have a dropdown menu defined as a  like so:

In jQuery, in our application logic, we would activate it with something like:

When we just look at the view, it's not immediately obvious that there is any functionality here. For small applications, that's fine. But for non-trivial applications, things quickly get confusing and hard to maintain.

In AngularJS, though, the view is the official record of view-based functionality. Our  declaration would look like this instead:

These two do the same thing, but in the AngularJS version anyone looking at the template knows what's supposed to happen. Whenever a new member of the development team comes on board, she can look at this and then know that there is a directive called  operating on it; she doesn't need to intuit the right answer or sift through any code. The view told us what was supposed to happen. Much cleaner.

Developers new to AngularJS often ask a question like: how do I find all links of a specific kind and add a directive onto them. The developer is always flabbergasted when we reply: you don't. But the reason you don't do that is that this is like half-jQuery, half-AngularJS, and no good. The problem here is that the developer is trying to "do jQuery" in the context of AngularJS. That's never going to work well. The view is the official record. Outside of a directive (more on this below), you never, ever, never change the DOM. And directives are applied in the view, so intent is clear.

Remember: don't design, and then mark up. You must architect, and then design.

Data binding

This is by far one of the most awesome features of AngularJS and cuts out a lot of the need to do the kinds of DOM manipulations I mentioned in the previous section. AngularJS will automatically update your view so you don't have to! In jQuery, we respond to events and then update content. Something like:

For a view that looks like this:

Apart from mixing concerns, we also have the same problems of signifying intent that I mentioned before. But more importantly, we had to manually reference and update a DOM node. And if we want to delete a log entry, we have to code against the DOM for that too. How do we test the logic apart from the DOM? And what if we want to change the presentation?

This a little messy and a trifle frail. But in AngularJS, we can do this:

And our view can look like this:

But for that matter, our view could look like this:

And now instead of using an unordered list, we're using Bootstrap alert boxes. And we never had to change the controller code! But more importantly, no matter where or how the log gets updated, the view will change too. Automatically. Neat!

Though I didn't show it here, the data binding is two-way. So those log messages could also be editable in the view just by doing this: . And there was much rejoicing.

Distinct model layer

In jQuery, the DOM is kind of like the model. But in AngularJS, we have a separate model layer that we can manage in any way we want, completely independently from the view. This helps for the above data binding, maintains separation of concerns, and introduces far greater testability. Other answers mentioned this point, so I'll just leave it at that.

Separation of concerns

And all of the above tie into this over-arching theme: keep your concerns separate. Your view acts as the official record of what is supposed to happen (for the most part); your model represents your data; you have a service layer to perform reusable tasks; you do DOM manipulation and augment your view with directives; and you glue it all together with controllers. This was also mentioned in other answers, and the only thing I would add pertains to testability, which I discuss in another section below.

Dependency injection

To help us out with separation of concerns is dependency injection (DI). If you come from a server-side language (from Java to PHP) you're probably familiar with this concept already, but if you're a client-side guy coming from jQuery, this concept can seem anything from silly to superfluous to hipster. But it's not. :-)

From a broad perspective, DI means that you can declare components very freely and then from any other component, just ask for an instance of it and it will be granted. You don't have to know about loading order, or file locations, or anything like that. The power may not immediately be visible, but I'll provide just one (common) example: testing.

Let's say in our application, we require a service that implements server-side storage through a REST API and, depending on application state, local storage as well. When running tests on our controllers, we don't want to have to communicate with the server - we're testing the controller, after all. We can just add a mock service of the same name as our original component, and the injector will ensure that our controller gets the fake one automatically - our controller doesn't and needn't know the difference.

Speaking of testing...

4. Test-driven development - always

This is really part of section 3 on architecture, but it's so important that I'm putting it as its own top-level section.

Out of all of the many jQuery plugins you've seen, used, or written, how many of them had an accompanying test suite? Not very many because jQuery isn't very amenable to that. But AngularJS is.

In jQuery, the only way to test is often to create the component independently with a sample/demo page against which our tests can perform DOM manipulation. So then we have to develop a component separately and then integrate it into our application. How inconvenient! So much of the time, when developing with jQuery, we opt for iterative instead of test-driven development. And who could blame us?

But because we have separation of concerns, we can do test-driven development iteratively in AngularJS! For example, let's say we want a super-simple directive to indicate in our menu what our current route is. We can declare what we want in the view of our application:

Okay, now we can write a test for the non-existent  directive:

And when we run our test, we can confirm that it fails. Only now should we create our directive:

Our test now passes and our menu performs as requested. Our development is both iterative and test-driven. Wicked-cool.

5. Conceptually, directives are not packaged jQuery

You'll often hear "only do DOM manipulation in a directive". This is a necessity. Treat it with due deference!

But let's dive a little deeper...

Some directives just decorate what's already in the view (think ) and therefore sometimes do DOM manipulation straight away and then are basically done. But if a directive is like a "widget" and has a template, it should also respect separation of concerns. That is, the template too should remain largely independent from its implementation in the link and controller functions.

AngularJS comes with an entire set of tools to make this very easy; with  we can dynamically update the class;  allows two-way data binding;  and  programmatically show or hide an element; and many more - including the ones we write ourselves. In other words, we can do all kinds of awesomeness without DOM manipulation. The less DOM manipulation, the easier directives are to test, the easier they are to style, the easier they are to change in the future, and the more re-usable and distributable they are.

I see lots of developers new to AngularJS using directives as the place to throw a bunch of jQuery. In other words, they think "since I can't do DOM manipulation in the controller, I'll take that code put it in a directive". While that certainly is much better, it's often still wrong.

Think of the logger we programmed in section 3. Even if we put that in a directive, we still want to do it the "Angular Way". It still doesn't take any DOM manipulation! There are lots of times when DOM manipulation is necessary, but it's a lot rarer than you think! Before doing DOM manipulation anywhere in your application, ask yourself if you really need to. There might be a better way.

Here's a quick example that shows the pattern I see most frequently. We want a toggleable button. (Note: this example is a little contrived and a skosh verbose to represent more complicated cases that are solved in exactly the same way.)

There are a few things wrong with this:

- First, jQuery was never necessary. There's nothing we did here that needed jQuery at all!

- Second, even if we already have jQuery on our page, there's no reason to use it here; we can simply use  and our component will still work when dropped into a project that doesn't have jQuery.

- Third, even assuming jQuery was required for this directive to work, jqLite () will always use jQuery if it was loaded! So we needn't use the  - we can just use .

- Fourth, closely related to the third, is that jqLite elements needn't be wrapped in  - the  that is passed to the  function would already be a jQuery element! 

- And fifth, which we've mentioned in previous sections, why are we mixing template stuff into our logic?

This directive can be rewritten (even for very complicated cases!) much more simply like so:

Again, the template stuff is in the template, so you (or your users) can easily swap it out for one that meets any style necessary, and the logic never had to be touched. Reusability - boom!

And there are still all those other benefits, like testing - it's easy! No matter what's in the template, the directive's internal API is never touched, so refactoring is easy. You can change the template as much as you want without touching the directive. And no matter what you change, your tests still pass.

w00t!

So if directives aren't just collections of jQuery-like functions, what are they? Directives are actually extensions of HTML. If HTML doesn't do something you need it to do, you write a directive to do it for you, and then use it just as if it was part of HTML.

Put another way, if AngularJS doesn't do something out of the box, think how the team would accomplish it to fit right in with , , et al.

Summary

Don't even use jQuery. Don't even include it. It will hold you back. And when you come to a problem that you think you know how to solve in jQuery already, before you reach for the , try to think about how to do it within the confines the AngularJS. If you don't know, ask! 19 times out of 20, the best way to do it doesn't need jQuery and to try to solve it with jQuery results in more work for you.

A: Quick note, my answer is almost certainly confusing Big Oh notation (which is an upper bound) with Big Theta notation "Θ" (which is a two-side bound). But in my experience, this is actually typical of discussions in non-academic settings. Apologies for any confusion caused.

BigOh complexity can be visualized with this graph:

The simplest definition I can give for Big Oh notation is this:

Big Oh notation is a relative representation of the complexity of an algorithm.

There are some important and deliberately chosen words in that sentence:

- relative: you can only compare apples to apples.  You can't compare an algorithm that does arithmetic multiplication to an algorithm that sorts a list of integers.  But a comparison of two algorithms to do arithmetic operations (one multiplication, one addition) will tell you something meaningful;

- representation: BigOh (in its simplest form) reduces the comparison between algorithms to a single variable.  That variable is chosen based on observations or assumptions.  For example, sorting algorithms are typically compared based on comparison operations (comparing two nodes to determine their relative ordering).  This assumes that comparison is expensive.  But what if the comparison is cheap but swapping is expensive?  It changes the comparison; and

- complexity: if it takes me one second to sort 10,000 elements, how long will it take me to sort one million?  Complexity in this instance is a relative measure to something else.

Come back and reread the above when you've read the rest.

The best example of BigOh I can think of is doing arithmetic.  Take two numbers (123456 and 789012).  The basic arithmetic operations we learned in school were:

- addition;

- subtraction;

- multiplication; and

- division.

Each of these is an operation or a problem.  A method of solving these is called an algorithm.

The addition is the simplest.  You line the numbers up (to the right) and add the digits in a column writing the last number of that addition in the result.  The 'tens' part of that number is carried over to the next column.

Let's assume that the addition of these numbers is the most expensive operation in this algorithm. It stands to reason that to add these two numbers together we have to add together 6 digits (and possibly carry a 7th). If we add two 100 digit numbers together we have to do 100 additions.  If we add two 10,000 digit numbers we have to do 10,000 additions.

See the pattern?  The complexity (being the number of operations) is directly proportional to the number of digits n in the larger number.  We call this O(n) or linear complexity.

Subtraction is similar (except you may need to borrow instead of carry).

Multiplication is different. You line the numbers up, take the first digit in the bottom number and multiply it in turn against each digit in the top number and so on through each digit. So to multiply our two 6 digit numbers we must do 36 multiplications. We may need to do as many as 10 or 11 column adds to get the end result too.

If we have two 100-digit numbers we need to do 10,000 multiplications and 200 adds.  For two one million digit numbers we need to do one trillion (1012) multiplications and two million adds.

As the algorithm scales with n-squared, this is O(n2) or quadratic complexity. This is a good time to introduce another important concept:

We only care about the most significant portion of complexity.

The astute may have realized that we could express the number of operations as: n2 + 2n.  But as you saw from our example with two numbers of a million digits apiece, the second term (2n) becomes insignificant (accounting for 0.0002% of the total operations by that stage).

One can notice that we've assumed the worst case scenario here. While multiplying 6 digit numbers, if one of them has 4 digits and the other one has 6 digits, then we only have 24 multiplications. Still, we calculate the worst case scenario for that 'n', i.e when both are 6 digit numbers. Hence Big Oh notation is about the Worst-case scenario of an algorithm.
The Telephone Book

The next best example I can think of is the telephone book, normally called the White Pages or similar but it varies from country to country.  But I'm talking about the one that lists people by surname and then initials or first name, possibly address and then telephone numbers.

Now if you were instructing a computer to look up the phone number for "John Smith" in a telephone book that contains 1,000,000 names, what would you do?  Ignoring the fact that you could guess how far in the S's started (let's assume you can't), what would you do?

A typical implementation might be to open up to the middle, take the 500,000th and compare it to "Smith". If it happens to be "Smith, John", we just got really lucky.  Far more likely is that "John Smith" will be before or after that name.  If it's after we then divide the last half of the phone book in half and repeat.  If it's before then we divide the first half of the phone book in half and repeat.  And so on.

This is called a binary search and is used every day in programming whether you realize it or not.

So if you want to find a name in a phone book of a million names you can actually find any name by doing this at most 20 times.  In comparing search algorithms we decide that this comparison is our 'n'.

- For a phone book of 3 names it takes 2 comparisons (at most).

- For 7 it takes at most 3.

- For 15 it takes 4.

- …

- For 1,000,000 it takes 20.

That is staggeringly good, isn't it?

In BigOh terms this is O(log n) or logarithmic complexity.  Now the logarithm in question could be ln (base e), log10, log2 or some other base.  It doesn't matter it's still O(log n) just like O(2n2) and O(100n2) are still both O(n2).

It's worthwhile at this point to explain that BigOh can be used to determine three cases with an algorithm:

- Best Case: In the telephone book search, the best case is that we find the name in one comparison.  This is O(1) or constant complexity;

- Expected Case: As discussed above this is O(log n); and

- Worst Case: This is also O(log n).

Normally we don't care about the best case.  We're interested in the expected and worst case.  Sometimes one or the other of these will be more important.

Back to the telephone book.

What if you have a phone number and want to find a name?  The police have a reverse phone book but such look-ups are denied to the general public.  Or are they?  Technically you can reverse look-up a number in an ordinary phone book.  How?

You start at the first name and compare the number.  If it's a match, great, if not, you move on to the next.  You have to do it this way because the phone book is unordered (by phone number anyway).

So to find a name given the phone number (reverse lookup):

- Best Case: O(1);

- Expected Case: O(n) (for 500,000); and

- Worst Case: O(n) (for 1,000,000).

The Traveling Salesman

This is quite a famous problem in computer science and deserves a mention.  In this problem, you have N towns. Each of those towns is linked to 1 or more other towns by a road of a certain distance. The Traveling Salesman problem is to find the shortest tour that visits every town.

Sounds simple?  Think again.

If you have 3 towns A, B, and C with roads between all pairs then you could go:

- A → B → C

- A → C → B

- B → C → A

- B → A → C

- C → A → B

- C → B → A

Well, actually there's less than that because some of these are equivalent (A → B → C and C → B → A are equivalent, for example, because they use the same roads, just in reverse).

In actuality, there are 3 possibilities.

- Take this to 4 towns and you have (iirc) 12 possibilities.

- With 5 it's 60.

- 6 becomes 360.

This is a function of a mathematical operation called a factorial.  Basically:

- 5! = 5 × 4 × 3 × 2 × 1 = 120

- 6! = 6 × 5 × 4 × 3 × 2 × 1 = 720

- 7! = 7 × 6 × 5 × 4 × 3 × 2 × 1 = 5040

- …

- 25! = 25 × 24 × … × 2 × 1 = 15,511,210,043,330,985,984,000,000

- …

- 50! = 50 × 49 × … × 2 × 1 = 3.04140932 × 1064

So the BigOh of the Traveling Salesman problem is O(n!) or factorial or combinatorial complexity.

By the time you get to 200 towns there isn't enough time left in the universe to solve the problem with traditional computers.

Something to think about.
Polynomial Time

Another point I wanted to make a quick mention of is that any algorithm that has a complexity of O(na) is said to have polynomial complexity or is solvable in polynomial time.

O(n), O(n2) etc. are all polynomial time. Some problems cannot be solved in polynomial time. Certain things are used in the world because of this. Public Key Cryptography is a prime example. It is computationally hard to find two prime factors of a very large number. If it wasn't, we couldn't use the public key systems we use.

Anyway, that's it for my (hopefully plain English) explanation of BigOh (revised).

A: is an alias in C# for .

So technically, there is no difference.  It's like  vs. .

As far as guidelines, it's generally recommended to use  any time you're referring to an object.

e.g.

Likewise, I think it's generally recommended to use  if you need to refer specifically to the class.

e.g.

This is the style that Microsoft tends to use in their examples.

It appears that the guidance in this area may have changed, as StyleCop now enforces the use of the C# specific aliases.

A: is just a variable name.  

will simply loop over the keys in the dictionary, rather than the keys and values.  To loop over both key and value you can use the following:

For Python 3.x:

For Python 2.x:

To test for yourself, change the word  to .

In Python 3.x,  was replaced with simply , which returns a set-like view backed by the dict, like  but even better. 
This is also available in 2.7 as . 

The operation  will work for both 2 and 3, but in 2 it will return a list of the dictionary's  pairs, which will not reflect changes to the dict that happen after the  call. If you want the 2.x behavior in 3.x, you can call .

A: The stack is the memory set aside as scratch space for a thread of execution.  When a function is called, a block is reserved on the top of the stack for local variables and some bookkeeping data.  When that function returns, the block becomes unused and can be used the next time a function is called.  The stack is always reserved in a LIFO (last in first out) order; the most recently reserved block is always the next block to be freed.  This makes it really simple to keep track of the stack; freeing a block from the stack is nothing more than adjusting one pointer.

The heap is memory set aside for dynamic allocation.  Unlike the stack, there's no enforced pattern to the allocation and deallocation of blocks from the heap; you can allocate a block at any time and free it at any time.  This makes it much more complex to keep track of which parts of the heap are allocated or free at any given time; there are many custom heap allocators available to tune heap performance for different usage patterns.

Each thread gets a stack, while there's typically only one heap for the application (although it isn't uncommon to have multiple heaps for different types of allocation).

To answer your questions directly:

To what extent are they controlled by the OS or language runtime?

The OS allocates the stack for each system-level thread when the thread is created.  Typically the OS is called by the language runtime to allocate the heap for the application.

What is their scope?

The stack is attached to a thread, so when the thread exits the stack is reclaimed.  The heap is typically allocated at application startup by the runtime, and is reclaimed when the application (technically process) exits.

What determines the size of each of them?

The size of the stack is set when a thread is created.  The size of the heap is set on application startup, but can grow as space is needed (the allocator requests more memory from the operating system).

What makes one faster?

The stack is faster because the access pattern makes it trivial to allocate and deallocate memory from it (a pointer/integer is simply incremented or decremented), while the heap has much more complex bookkeeping involved in an allocation or deallocation.  Also, each byte in the stack tends to be reused very frequently which means it tends to be mapped to the processor's cache, making it very fast. Another performance hit for the heap is that the heap, being mostly a global resource, typically has to be multi-threading safe, i.e. each allocation and deallocation needs to be - typically - synchronized with "all" other heap accesses in the program.

A clear demonstration:

Image source: vikashazrati.wordpress.com

A: You want the  function on the native array object.

 will insert  into  at the specified  (deleting  items first, that is, it's just an insert).

In this example we will create an array and add an element to it into index 2:







UPDATE (24 May 2024)

You can now use the  method which behaves just like , however it returns a new array without mutating the existing one.

You could update the previous example like so:

A: If the reason you're checking is so you can do something like , it's safer to use a  around the attempt to open it. Checking and then opening risks the file being deleted or moved or something between when you check and when you try to open it.

If you're not planning to open the file immediately, you can use  if you need to be sure it's a file.

Return  if path is an existing regular file. This follows symbolic links, so both islink() and isfile() can be true for the same path.

Starting with Python 3.4, the  module offers an object-oriented approach (backported to  in Python 2.7):

To check a directory, do:

To check whether a  object exists independently of whether is it a file or directory, use :

You can also use  in a  block:

A: Assuming you're joining on columns with no duplicates, which is a very common case:

- 

An inner join of A and B gives the result of A intersect B, i.e. the inner part of a Venn diagram intersection.

- 

An outer join of A and B gives the results of A union B, i.e. the outer parts of a Venn diagram union.

Examples

Suppose you have two tables, with a single column each, and data as follows:

Note that (1,2) are unique to A, (3,4) are common, and (5,6) are unique to B.

Inner join

An inner join using either of the equivalent queries gives the intersection of the two tables, i.e. the two rows they have in common.

Left outer join

A left outer join will give all rows in A, plus any common rows in B.

Right outer join

A right outer join will give all rows in B, plus any common rows in A.

Full outer join

A full outer join will give you the union of A and B, i.e. all the rows in A and all the rows in B. If something in A doesn't have a corresponding datum in B, then the B portion is null, and vice versa.

A: Using regular expressions is probably the best way of validating an email address in JavaScript. View a bunch of tests on JSFiddle taken from Chromium.

The following is an example of a regular expression that accepts unicode.

Keep in mind that one should not rely on JavaScript validation alone, as JavaScript can be easily disabled by the client. Furthermore, it is important to validate on the server side.

The following snippet of code is an example of JavaScript validating an email address on the client side.

A: The syntax is:

There is also the  value, which can be used with any of the above:

The key point to remember is that the  value represents the first value that is not in the selected slice. So, the difference between  and  is the number of elements selected (if  is 1, the default).

The other feature is that  or  may be a negative number, which means it counts from the end of the array instead of the beginning. So:

Similarly,  may be a negative number:

Python is kind to the programmer if there are fewer items than you ask for. For example, if you ask for  and  only contains one element, you get an empty list instead of an error. Sometimes you would prefer the error, so you have to be aware that this may happen.
Relationship with the  object

A  object can represent a slicing operation, i.e.:

is equivalent to:

Slice objects also behave slightly differently depending on the number of arguments, similar to , i.e. both  and  are supported.
To skip specifying a given argument, one might use , so that e.g.  is equivalent to  or  is equivalent to .

While the -based notation is very helpful for simple slicing, the explicit use of  objects simplifies the programmatic generation of slicing.

A: → For a more general explanation of asynchronous behaviour with different examples, see Why is my variable unaltered after I modify it inside of a function? - Asynchronous code reference

→ If you already understand the problem, skip to the possible solutions below.

The problem

The A in Ajax stands for asynchronous. That means sending the request (or rather receiving the response) is taken out of the normal execution flow. In your example,  returns immediately and the next statement, , is executed before the function you passed as  callback was even called.

Here is an analogy which hopefully makes the difference between synchronous and asynchronous flow clearer:
Synchronous

Imagine you make a phone call to a friend and ask him to look something up for you. Although it might take a while, you wait on the phone and stare into space, until your friend gives you the answer that you needed.

The same is happening when you make a function call containing "normal" code:

Even though  might take a long time to execute, any code coming after  has to wait until the function returns the result.
Asynchronous

You call your friend again for the same reason. But this time you tell him that you are in a hurry and he should call you back on your mobile phone. You hang up, leave the house, and do whatever you planned to do. Once your friend calls you back, you are dealing with the information he gave to you.

That's exactly what's happening when you do an Ajax request.

Instead of waiting for the response, the execution continues immediately and the statement after the Ajax call is executed. To get the response eventually, you provide a function to be called once the response was received, a callback (notice something? call back ?). Any statement coming after that call is executed before the callback is called.

Solution(s)

Embrace the asynchronous nature of JavaScript! While certain asynchronous operations provide synchronous counterparts (so does "Ajax"), it's generally discouraged to use them, especially in a browser context.

Why is it bad do you ask?

JavaScript runs in the UI thread of the browser and any long-running process will lock the UI, making it unresponsive. Additionally, there is an upper limit on the execution time for JavaScript and the browser will ask the user whether to continue the execution or not.

All of this results in a really bad user experience. The user won't be able to tell whether everything is working fine or not. Furthermore, the effect will be worse for users with a slow connection.

In the following we will look at three different solutions that are all building on top of each other:

- Promises with  (ES2017+, available in older browsers if you use a transpiler or regenerator)

- Callbacks (popular in node)

- Promises with  (ES2015+, available in older browsers if you use one of the many promise libraries)

All three are available in current browsers, and node 7+.

ES2017+: Promises with 

The ECMAScript version released in 2017 introduced syntax-level support for asynchronous functions. With the help of  and , you can write asynchronous in a "synchronous style". The code is still asynchronous, but it's easier to read/understand.

 builds on top of promises: an  function always returns a promise.  "unwraps" a promise and either result in the value the promise was resolved with or throws an error if the promise was rejected.

Important: You can only use  inside an  function or in a JavaScript module. Top-level  is not supported outside of modules, so you might have to make an async IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expression) to start an  context if not using a module.

You can read more about  and  on MDN.

Here is an example that elaborates the delay function  above:

Current browser and node versions support . You can also support older environments by transforming your code to ES5 with the help of regenerator (or tools that use regenerator, such as Babel).

Let functions accept callbacks

A callback is when function 1 is passed to function 2. Function 2 can call function 1 whenever it is ready. In the context of an asynchronous process, the callback will be called whenever the asynchronous process is done. Usually, the result is passed to the callback.

In the example of the question, you can make  accept a callback and use it as  callback. So this

becomes

Here we defined the function "inline" but you can pass any function reference:

 itself is defined as follows:

 will refer to the function we pass to  when we call it and we pass it on to . I.e. once the Ajax request is successful,  will call  and pass the response to the callback (which can be referred to with , since this is how we defined the callback).

You can also process the response before passing it to the callback:

It's easier to write code using callbacks than it may seem. After all, JavaScript in the browser is heavily event-driven (DOM events). Receiving the Ajax response is nothing else but an event.
Difficulties could arise when you have to work with third-party code, but most problems can be solved by just thinking through the application flow.

ES2015+: Promises with then()

The Promise API is a new feature of ECMAScript 6 (ES2015), but it has good browser support already. There are also many libraries which implement the standard Promises API and provide additional methods to ease the use and composition of asynchronous functions (e.g., bluebird).

Promises are containers for future values. When the promise receives the value (it is resolved) or when it is canceled (rejected), it notifies all of its "listeners" who want to access this value.

The advantage over plain callbacks is that they allow you to decouple your code and they are easier to compose.

Here is an example of using a promise:








Applied to our Ajax call we could use promises like this:








Describing all the advantages that promise offer is beyond the scope of this answer, but if you write new code, you should seriously consider them. They provide a great abstraction and separation of your code.

More information about promises: HTML5 rocks - JavaScript Promises.
Side note: jQuery's deferred objects

Deferred objects are jQuery's custom implementation of promises (before the Promise API was standardized). They behave almost like promises but expose a slightly different API.

Every Ajax method of jQuery already returns a "deferred object" (actually a promise of a deferred object) which you can just return from your function:

Side note: Promise gotchas

Keep in mind that promises and deferred objects are just containers for a future value, they are not the value itself. For example, suppose you had the following:

This code misunderstands the above asynchronous issues. Specifically,  doesn't freeze the code while it checks the '/password' page on your server - it sends a request to the server and while it waits, it immediately returns a jQuery Ajax Deferred object, not the response from the server. That means the  statement is going to always get this Deferred object, treat it as , and proceed as though the user is logged in. Not good.

But the fix is easy:

Not recommended: Synchronous "Ajax" calls

As I mentioned, some(!) asynchronous operations have synchronous counterparts. I don't advocate their use, but for completeness' sake, here is how you would perform a synchronous call:
Without jQuery

If you directly use a  object, pass  as third argument to .
jQuery

If you use jQuery, you can set the  option to . Note that this option is deprecated since jQuery 1.8.
You can then either still use a  callback or access the  property of the jqXHR object:

If you use any other jQuery Ajax method, such as , , etc., you have to change it to  (since you can only pass configuration parameters to ).

Heads up! It is not possible to make a synchronous JSONP request. JSONP by its very nature is always asynchronous (one more reason to not even consider this option).

A: Hit the Esc key to enter "Normal mode". Then you can type  to enter "Command-line mode". A colon () will appear at the bottom of the screen and you can type in one of the following commands. To execute a command, press the Enter key.

-   to quit (short for )

-  to quit without saving (short for )

-  to write and quit

-  to write and quit, attempting to force the write if the file lacks write permission

-  to write and quit; like  but writes only if modified (short for )

-  to quit all (short for )

-  to quit, without saving, with a nonzero exit code to indicate failure (short for )

You can also quit Vim directly from "Normal mode" by typing  to save and quit (same as ) or  to just quit (same as ). (Note that case is important here.  and  do not mean the same thing.)

Vim has extensive help - that you can access with the  command - where you can find answers to all your questions and a tutorial for beginners.

A: See the NPM docs and semver docs:

- 

 “Approximately equivalent to version”, will automatically update you to all future patch versions that are backwards-compatible, without incrementing the minor version.  will use releases from  to 

- 

 “Compatible with version”, will automatically update you to all future minor/patch versions that are backwards-compatible, without incrementing the major version.  will use releases from  to 

See Comments below for exceptions, in particular for pre-one versions, such as ^0.2.3

A: Modern jQuery

Use :

DOM API

If you're working with just one element, you can always just access the underlying  and modify its  property:

The benefit to using the  and  methods instead of this is that they will operate on all matched elements.

jQuery 1.5.x and below

The  method is not available, so you need to use .

Note that this is the approach used by jQuery's unit tests prior to version 1.6 and is preferable to using  since the latter will, if the box was initially checked, change the behaviour of a call to  on any form that contains it – a subtle but probably unwelcome behaviour change.

For more context, some incomplete discussion of the changes to the handling of the  attribute/property in the transition from 1.5.x to 1.6 can be found in the version 1.6 release notes and the Attributes vs. Properties section of the  documentation.

A: From the Android Developer Documentation:

- 

px

Pixels - corresponds to actual pixels on the screen.

- 

in

Inches - based on the physical size of the screen.

 Inch OR  centimeters

- 

mm

> Millimeters - based on the physical size of the screen.

- 

pt

> Points -  of an inch based on the physical size of the screen.

- 

dp or dip

> Density-independent Pixels - an abstract unit that is based on the physical density of the screen. These units are relative to a 
dpi screen, so one dp is one pixel on a  dpi screen. The ratio of dp-to-pixel will change with the screen density, but not necessarily in direct proportion. Note: The compiler accepts both "dip" and "dp", though "dp" is more consistent with "sp".

- 

sp

> Scaleable Pixels OR scale-independent pixels - this is like the dp unit, but it is also scaled by the user's font size preference. It is recommended you
use this unit when specifying font sizes, so they will be adjusted
for both the screen density and the user's preference. Note, the Android documentation is inconsistent on what  actually stands for, one doc says "scale-independent pixels", the other says "scaleable pixels".

From Understanding Density Independence In Android:

Density Bucket
Screen Density
Physical Size
Pixel Size

ldpi
120 dpi

mdpi
160 dpi

hdpi
240 dpi

xhdpi
320 dpi

xxhdpi
480 dpi

xxxhdpi
640 dpi

Unit
Description
Units Per Physical Inch
Density Independent?
Same Physical Size On Every Screen?

px
Pixels
Varies
No
No

in
Inches
1
Yes
Yes

mm
Millimeters
25.4
Yes
Yes

pt
Points
72
Yes
Yes

dp
Density Independent Pixels
~160
Yes
Yes

sp
Scale Independent Pixels
~160
Yes
No

More info can be also be found in the Google Design Documentation.

A: The easiest way would be to find the head commit of the branch as it was immediately before the rebase started in the reflog...

and to reset the current branch to it.

Suppose the old commit was  in the ref log:

(If you do not want to retain the working copy changes, you can use  instead of )

You can check the history of the candidate old head by just doing a .

If you've not disabled per branch reflogs you should be able to simply do  as a rebase detaches the branch head before reattaching to the final head. I would double-check this behavior, though, as I haven't verified it recently.

Per default, all reflogs are activated for non-bare repositories:

A: Timestamp in milliseconds

To get the number of milliseconds since Unix epoch, call :

Alternatively, use the unary operator  to call :

Alternatively, call  directly:

To support IE8 and earlier (see compatibility table), create a shim for :

Alternatively, call  directly:

Timestamp in seconds

To get the number of seconds since Unix epoch, i.e. Unix timestamp:

Alternatively, using bitwise-or to floor is slightly faster, but also less readable and may break in the future (see explanations 1, 2):

Timestamp in milliseconds (higher resolution)

Use :

A: To check if a directory exists:

To check if a directory does not exist:

However, as Jon Ericson points out, subsequent commands may not work as intended if you do not take into account that a symbolic link to a directory will also pass this check.
E.g. running this:

Will produce the error message:

So symbolic links may have to be treated differently, if subsequent commands expect directories:

Take particular note of the double-quotes used to wrap the variables. The reason for this is explained by 8jean in another answer.

If the variables contain spaces or other unusual characters it will probably cause the script to fail.

A: Short answer - de facto limit of 2000 characters

If you keep URLs under 2000 characters, they'll work in virtually any combination of client and server software, and any search engine.

For specific use cases, longer URLs can be considered. Outside of search engines, 8000 characters offers wide compatibility as of 2023. Read on for all the details...
Longer answer - first, the standards...

The original HTTP/1.1 specification, published in 1999, RFC 2616, said in section 3.2.1:

The HTTP protocol does not place
any a priori limit on the length of
a URI. Servers MUST be able to handle
the URI of any resource they    serve,
and SHOULD be able to handle URIs of
unbounded length if they    provide
GET-based forms that could generate
such URIs. A server    SHOULD return
414 (Request-URI Too Long) status if a
URI is longer    than the server can
handle (see section 10.4.15).

In 2014, this was obsoleted by an updated specification largely to match actual usage, RFC 7230; it suggests:

Various ad hoc limitations on request-line length are found in
practice. It is RECOMMENDED that all HTTP senders and recipients
support, at a minimum, request-line lengths of 8000 octets.

In 2022, a new update was published, defining HTTP semantics independently of HTTP version (HTTP/1.1, HTTP/2, HTTP/3). RFC 9110, section 4.1, says:

It is RECOMMENDED that all senders and recipients support, at a minimum, URIs with lengths of 8000 octets in protocol elements. Note that this implies some structures and on-wire representations (for example, the request line in HTTP/1.1) will necessarily be larger in some cases.

...and the reality

That's what the standards say. For the reality, there was an article on boutell.com (link goes to Internet Archive backup) that discussed what individual browser and server implementations will support. The executive summary is:

Extremely long URLs are usually a
mistake. URLs over 2,000 characters
will not work in the most popular web
browsers. Don't use them if you intend
your site to work for the majority of
Internet users.

(Note: this is a quote from an article written in 2006, but in 2015 IE's declining usage means that longer URLs do work for the majority. However, IE still has the limitation...)
Internet Explorer's limitations...

IE8's maximum URL length is 2083 chars, and it seems IE9 has a similar limit.

I've tested IE10 and the address bar will only accept 2083 chars. You can click a URL which is longer than this, but the address bar will still only show 2083 characters of this link.

There's a nice writeup on the IE Internals blog which goes into some of the background to this.

There are mixed reports IE11 supports longer URLs - see comments below. Given some people report issues, the general advice still stands.
Search engines like URLs 

Be aware that the sitemaps protocol, which allows a site to inform search engines about available pages, has a limit of 2048 characters in a URL. If you intend to use sitemaps, a limit has been decided for you! (see Calin-Andrei Burloiu's answer below)

There's also some research from 2010 into the maximum URL length that search engines will crawl and index. They found the limit was 2047 chars, which appears allied to the sitemap protocol spec. However, they also found the Google SERP tool wouldn't cope with URLs longer than 1855 chars.
CDNs have limits

CDNs also impose limits on URI length, and will return a  when these limits are reached, for example:

- Fastly 8Kb

- CloudFront 8Kb

- Cloudflare 32Kb

(credit to timrs2998 for providing that info in the comments)
Additional browser roundup

I tested the following against an Apache 2.4 server configured with a very large LimitRequestLine and LimitRequestFieldSize.

Browser
Address bar
 or anchor tag

Chrome
32779
>64k

Android
8192
>64k

Firefox
>300k
>300k

Safari
>64k
>64k

IE11
2047
5120

Edge 16
2047
10240

See also this answer from Matas Vaitkevicius below.
Is this information up to date?

This is a popular question, and as the original research is ~14 years old I'll try to keep it up to date: As of Sep 2023, the advice still stands. While modern browsers will support longer URLs, search engines do not so the headline figure remains "under 2000 chars"

A: See the documentation for the built-in  method of the list:

Return zero-based index in the list of the first item whose value is equal to x. Raises a  if there is no such item.

The optional arguments start and end are interpreted as in the slice notation and are used to limit the search to a particular subsequence of the list. The returned index is computed relative to the beginning of the full sequence rather than the start argument.

Caveats
Linear time-complexity in list length

An  call checks every element of the list in order, until it finds a match. If the list is long, and if there is no guarantee that the value will be near the beginning, this can slow down the code.

This problem can only be completely avoided by using a different data structure. However, if the element is known to be within a certain part of the list, the  and  parameters can be used to narrow the search.

For example:

The second call is orders of magnitude faster, because it only has to search through 10 elements, rather than all 1 million.
Only the index of the first match is returned

A call to  searches through the list in order until it finds a match, and stops there. If there could be more than one occurrence of the value, and all indices are needed,  cannot solve the problem:

Instead, use a list comprehension or generator expression to do the search, with  to get indices:

The list comprehension and generator expression techniques still work if there is only one match, and are more generalizable.
Raises an exception if there is no match

As noted in the documentation above, using  will raise an exception if the searched-for value is not in the list:

If this is a concern, either explicitly check first using , or handle the exception with / as appropriate.

The explicit check is simple and readable, but it must iterate the list a second time. See What is the EAFP principle in Python? for more guidance on this choice.

A: You can do this fairly easily without  or . In this example, we'll squash the last 3 commits:

If you also want to write the new commit message from scratch, this suffices:

If you want to start editing the new commit message with a concatenation of the existing commit messages (i.e. similar to what a pick/squash/squash/…/squash  instruction list would start you with), then you need to extract those messages and pass them to :

Both of those methods squash the last three commits into a single new commit in the same way. The soft reset just re-points HEAD to the last commit that you do not want to squash. Neither the index nor the working tree are touched by the soft reset, leaving the index in the desired state for your new commit (i.e. it already has all the changes from the commits that you are about to “throw away”).
Edit Based on Comments

Because  and  rewrite history, you must use the  flag to push the modified branch to the remote. This is what the  flag is meant for. You can also be extra careful and fully define your target:

A: Native deep cloning

There's now a  function supported in all major browsers and node >= 17. It has polyfills for older systems.

If needed, loading the polyfill first:

See this answer for more details, but note these limitations:

- Function objects cannot be duplicated by the structured clone algorithm; attempting to throws a DataCloneError exception.

- Cloning DOM nodes likewise throws a DataCloneError exception.

- Certain object properties are not preserved:

- The lastIndex property of RegExp objects is not preserved.

- Property descriptors, setters, getters, and similar metadata-like features are not duplicated. For example, if an object is marked readonly with a property descriptor, it will be read/write in the duplicate, since that's the default.

- The prototype chain is not walked or duplicated.

Older answers
Fast cloning with data loss - JSON.parse/stringify

If you do not use s, functions, , , RegExps, Maps, Sets, Blobs, FileLists, ImageDatas, sparse Arrays, Typed Arrays or other complex types within your object, a very simple one liner to deep clone an object is:







See Corban's answer for benchmarks.
Reliable cloning using a library

Since cloning objects is not trivial (complex types, circular references, function etc.), most major libraries provide function to clone objects. Don't reinvent the wheel - if you're already using a library, check if it has an object cloning function. For example,

- lodash - ; can be imported separately via the lodash.clonedeep module and is probably your best choice if you're not already using a library that provides a deep cloning function

- Ramda - 

- AngularJS - 

- jQuery - ;  only clones DOM elements

- just library - ; Part of a library of zero-dependency npm modules that do just do one thing.
Guilt-free utilities for every occasion.

A: Use :

Another common way is  but you shouldn't use it because it is unsafe if any parts of the command come from outside your program or can contain spaces or other special characters, also  is generally more flexible (you can get the , , the "real" status code, better error handling, etc.). Even the documentation for  recommends using  instead.

On Python 3.4 and earlier, use  instead of :

A: [Edited 2023-03-05 to reflect latest best-practices for producing RFC4122-compliant UUIDs]

 is now standard on all modern browsers and JS runtimes.  However, because new browser APIs are restricted to secure contexts, this method is only available to pages served locally ( or ) or over HTTPS.

For readers interested in other UUID versions, generating UUIDs on legacy platforms or in non-secure contexts, there is the  module.  It is well-tested and supported.

Failing the above, there is this method (based on the original answer to this question):






Note: The use of any UUID generator that relies on  is strongly discouraged (including snippets featured in previous versions of this answer) for reasons best explained here. TL;DR: solutions based on  do not provide good uniqueness guarantees.

A: Careful:  WILL DELETE YOUR WORKING DIRECTORY CHANGES.
Be sure to stash any local changes you want to keep before running this command.

Assuming you are sitting on that commit, then this command will wack it...

The  means the commit before head.

Or, you could look at the output of , find the commit id of the commit you want to back up to, and then do this:

If you already pushed it, you will need to do a force push to get rid of it...

However, if others may have pulled it, then you would be better off starting a new branch.  Because when they pull, it will just merge it into their work, and you will get it pushed back up again.

If you already pushed, it may be better to use , to create a "mirror image" commit that will undo the changes.  However, both commits will be in the log.

FYI:  is great if you want to get rid of WORK IN PROGRESS.It will reset you back to the most recent commit, and erase all the changes in your working tree and index.

 does the same except you can restore it later if you need, versus permanently delete with reset hard mode. Check your stashes by using  and 

Lastly, if you need to find a commit that you "deleted", it is typically present in  unless you have garbage collected your repository.

A: With  check which commit is one prior the merge ( will be a better option than ). Then you can reset it using:

There's also another way:

It will get you back 1 commit.

Be aware that any modified and uncommitted/unstashed files will be reset to their unmodified state. To keep them either stash changes away or see  option below.  

As @Velmont suggested below in his answer, in this direct case using:

might yield better results, as it should preserve your changes.  will point to a commit directly before merge has occurred, so you don't have to hunt for it yourself.

A further tip is to use the  switch instead of  since it doesn't reset files unnecessarily:

  

--merge
  
  

Resets the index and updates the files in the working tree that are different between  and HEAD, but keeps those which are different between the index and working tree (i.e. which have changes which have not been added).

A: The difference is that  is a function expression and so only defined when that line is reached, whereas  is a function declaration and is defined as soon as its surrounding function or script is executed (due to hoisting).

For example, a function expression:







And, a function declaration:







Historically, function declarations defined within blocks were handled inconsistently between browsers. Strict mode (introduced in ES5) resolved this by scoping function declarations to their enclosing block.

A: With  it is very easy to style the div horizontally and vertically centered.








To align the div vertically centered, use the property .

Other Solutions

You can apply this CSS to the inner :

Of course, you don't have to set the  to . Any width less than the containing  will work. The  is what does the actual centering.

If you are targeting Internet Explorer 8 (and later), it might be better to have this instead:

It will make the inner element center horizontally and it works without setting a specific .

Working example here:

A: Modern browsers have , which does exactly that and is widely supported by everyone except IE:







You can also use , which is less direct, but doesn't require polyfills for outdated browsers.







Many frameworks also offer similar methods:

- jQuery: 

- Underscore.js:  (also aliased as  and )

- Dojo Toolkit: 

- Prototype: 

- MooTools: 

- MochiKit: 

- MS Ajax: 

- Ext: 

- Lodash:  (is  prior 4.0.0)

- Ramda: 

Notice that some frameworks implement this as a function, while others add the function to the array prototype.

A: Update for ES6 modules

Inside native ECMAScript modules (with  and  statements) and ES6 classes, strict mode is always enabled and cannot be disabled.
Original answer

This article about Javascript Strict Mode might interest you: John Resig - ECMAScript 5 Strict Mode, JSON, and More

To quote some interesting parts:

Strict Mode is a new feature in ECMAScript 5 that allows you to place a program, or a function, in a "strict" operating context. This strict context prevents certain actions from being taken and throws more exceptions.

And:

Strict mode helps out in a couple ways:

- It catches some common coding bloopers, throwing exceptions.

- It prevents, or throws errors, when relatively "unsafe" actions are taken (such as gaining access to the global object).

- It disables features that are confusing or poorly thought out.

Also note you can apply "strict mode" to the whole file... Or you can use it only for a specific function (still quoting from John Resig's article):

Which might be helpful if you have to mix old and new code ;-)

So, I suppose it's a bit like the  you can use in Perl (hence the name?): it helps you make fewer errors, by detecting more things that could lead to breakages.

Strict mode is now supported by all major browsers.

A: In your local clone of your forked repository, you can add the original GitHub repository as a "remote".  ("Remotes" are like nicknames for the URLs of repositories -  is one, for example.)  Then you can fetch all the branches from that upstream repository, and rebase your work to continue working on the upstream version.  In terms of commands that might look like:

If you don't want to rewrite the history of your main branch, (for example because other people may have cloned it) then you should replace the last command with .  However, for making further pull requests that are as clean as possible, it's probably better to rebase.

If you've rebased your branch onto  you may need to force the push in order to push it to your own forked repository on GitHub.  You'd do that with:

You only need to use the  the first time after you've rebased.

A: The old versions of JavaScript had no import, include, or require, so many different approaches to this problem have been developed.

But since 2015 (ES6), JavaScript has had the ES6 modules standard to import modules in Node.js, which is also supported by most modern browsers.

For compatibility with older browsers, build tools like Webpack and Rollup and/or transpilation tools like Babel can be used.
ES6 Modules

ECMAScript (ES6) modules have been supported in Node.js since v8.5, with the  flag, and since at least Node.js v13.8.0 without the flag. To enable "ESM" (vs. Node.js's previous CommonJS-style module system ["CJS"]) you either use  in  or give the files the extension . (Similarly, modules written with Node.js's previous CJS module can be named  if your default is ESM.)

Using :

Then :

Then :

Using , you'd have :

Then :

ECMAScript modules in browsers

Browsers have had support for loading ECMAScript modules directly (no tools like Webpack required) since Safari 10.1, Chrome 61, Firefox 60, and Edge 16. Check the current support at caniuse. There is no need to use Node.js'  extension; browsers completely ignore file extensions on modules/scripts.

Read more at https://jakearchibald.com/2017/es-modules-in-browsers/
Dynamic imports in browsers

Dynamic imports let the script load other scripts as needed:

Read more at https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2017/11/dynamic-import
Node.js require

The older CJS module style, still widely used in Node.js, is the / system.

There are other ways for JavaScript to include external JavaScript contents in browsers that do not require preprocessing.
AJAX Loading

You could load an additional script with an AJAX call and then use  to run it. This is the most straightforward way, but it is limited to your domain because of the JavaScript sandbox security model. Using  also opens the door to bugs, hacks and security issues.
Fetch Loading

Like Dynamic Imports you can load one or many scripts with a  call using promises to control order of execution for script dependencies using the Fetch Inject library:

jQuery Loading

The jQuery library provides loading functionality in one line:

Dynamic Script Loading

You could add a script tag with the script URL into the HTML. To avoid the overhead of jQuery, this is an ideal solution.

The script can even reside on a different server. Furthermore, the browser evaluates the code. The  tag can be injected into either the web page , or inserted just before the closing  tag.

Here is an example of how this could work:

This function will add a new  tag to the end of the head section of the page, where the  attribute is set to the URL which is given to the function as the first parameter.

Both of these solutions are discussed and illustrated in JavaScript Madness: Dynamic Script Loading.
Detecting when the script has been executed

Now, there is a big issue you must know about. Doing that implies that you remotely load the code. Modern web browsers will load the file and keep executing your current script because they load everything asynchronously to improve performance. (This applies to both the jQuery method and the manual dynamic script loading method.)

It means that if you use these tricks directly, you won't be able to use your newly loaded code the next line after you asked it to be loaded, because it will be still loading.

For example:  contains :

Then you reload the page hitting F5. And it works! Confusing...

So what to do about it ?

Well, you can use the hack the author suggests in the link I gave you. In summary, for people in a hurry, he uses an event to run a callback function when the script is loaded. So you can put all the code using the remote library in the callback function. For example:

Then you write the code you want to use AFTER the script is loaded in a lambda function:

Then you run all that:

Note that the script may execute after the DOM has loaded, or before, depending on the browser and whether you included the line . There's a great article on Javascript loading in general which discusses this.
Source Code Merge/Preprocessing

As mentioned at the top of this answer, many developers use build/transpilation tool(s) like Parcel, Webpack, or Babel in their projects, allowing them to use upcoming JavaScript syntax, provide backward compatibility for older browsers, combine files, minify, perform code splitting etc.

A: If you're using .NET 5 or newer, use this solution.

Note: The cast to  is not strictly necessary, but it does make the code 0.5 ns faster.

A: As of August 2020: Modern browsers have support for the  method defined by the ECMAScript 2021 language specification.

For older/legacy browsers:

Here is how this answer evolved:

In response to comment "what's if 'abc' is passed as a variable?":

In response to Click Upvote's comment, you could simplify it even more:

Note: Regular expressions contain special (meta) characters, and as such it is dangerous to blindly pass an argument in the  function above without pre-processing it to escape those characters.  This is covered in the Mozilla Developer Network's JavaScript Guide on Regular Expressions, where they present the following utility function (which has changed at least twice since this answer was originally written, so make sure to check the MDN site for potential updates):

So in order to make the  function above safer, it could be modified to the following if you also include :

A: Another way to make a directory stay (almost) empty (in the repository) is to create a  file inside that directory that contains these four lines:

Then you don't have to get the order right the way that you have to do in m104's solution.

This also gives the benefit that files in that directory won't show up as "untracked" when you do a git status.

Making @GreenAsJade's comment persistent:

  

I think it's worth noting that this solution does precisely what the question asked for, but is not perhaps what many people looking at this question will have been looking for. This solution guarantees that the directory remains empty. It says "I truly never want files checked in here". As opposed to "I don't have any files to check in here, yet, but I need the directory here, files may be coming later".

A: First, clone a remote Git repository and  into it:

Next, look at the local branches in your repository:

But there are other branches hiding in your repository! See these using the  flag:

To take a quick peek at an upstream branch, check it out directly:

To work on that branch, create a local tracking branch, which is done automatically by:

Here, "new branch" simply means that the branch is taken from the index and created locally for you.  As the previous line tells you, the branch is being set up to track the remote branch, which usually means the origin/branch_name branch.

Your local branches should now show:

You can track more than one remote repository using :

At this point, things are getting pretty crazy, so run  to see what's going on:

A: From April 2017: most modern browsers now support the simple pseudo-element  [Ref]
Implementation

There are three different implementations: pseudo-elements, pseudo-classes, and nothing.

- WebKit, Blink (Safari, Google Chrome, Opera 15+) and Microsoft Edge are using a pseudo-element: . [Ref]

- Mozilla Firefox 4 to 18 is using a pseudo-class:  (one colon). [Ref]

- Mozilla Firefox 19+ is using a pseudo-element: , but the old selector will still work for a while. [Ref]

- Internet Explorer 10 and 11 are using a pseudo-class: . [Ref]

Internet Explorer 9 and lower does not support the  attribute at all, while Opera 12 and lower do not support any CSS selector for placeholders.

The discussion about the best implementation is still going on. Note the pseudo-elements act like real elements in the Shadow DOM. A  on an  will not get the same background color as the pseudo-element.
CSS selectors

User agents are required to ignore a rule with an unknown selector. See Selectors Level 3:

a group of selectors containing an invalid selector is invalid.

So we need separate rules for each browser. Otherwise the whole group would be ignored by all browsers.







Usage notes

- Be careful to avoid bad contrasts. Firefox's placeholder appears to be defaulting with a reduced opacity, so needs to use  here.

- Note that placeholder text is just cut off if it doesn’t fit – size your input elements in  and test them with big minimum font size settings. Don’t forget translations: some languages need more room for the same word.

- Browsers with HTML support for  but without CSS support for that (like Opera) should be tested too.

- Placeholders are no replacement for labels, so make sure you have a label, too

- Some browsers use additional default CSS for some  types (, ). These might affect the rendering in unexpected ways. Use the properties  and  to change that. Example:

A: In modern git (I'm writing this in 2022, with an updated  installation), this has become quite a bit simpler:

- Run , and commit.

This removes the filetree at , and the submodule's entry in the  file. I.e. all traces of the submodule in your repository proper are removed.

As the docs note however, the  dir of the submodule is kept around (in the  directory of the main project's  dir), "to make it possible to checkout past commits without requiring fetching from another repository".

If you nonetheless want to remove this info, manually delete the submodule's directory in , and remove the submodule's entry in the file . These steps can be automated using the commands

- , and

- .

Caution: content below is older community wiki instructions.  Ignore if you have a modern :

Via the page Git Submodule Tutorial:

To remove a submodule you need to:

- Delete the relevant section from the  file.

- Stage the  changes:

- Delete the relevant section from .

- Remove the submodule files from the working tree and index:
 (no trailing slash).

- Remove the submodule's  directory:

- Commit the changes:

- Delete the now untracked submodule files:

See also: alternative steps below.

A: Overall:

Both PUT and POST can be used for creating.

You have to ask, "what are you performing the action upon?", to distinguish what you should be using. Let's assume you're designing an API for asking questions.  If you want to use POST, then you would do that to a list of questions. If you want to use PUT, then you would do that to a particular question.

Great, both can be used, so which one should I use in my RESTful design:

You do not need to support both PUT and POST.

Which you use is up to you.  But just remember to use the right one depending on what object you are referencing in the request.

Some considerations:

- Do you name the URL objects you create explicitly, or let the server decide? If you name them then use PUT.  If you let the server decide then use POST.

- PUT is defined to assume idempotency, so if you PUT an object twice, it should have no additional effect.  This is a nice property, so I would use PUT when possible. Just make sure that the PUT-idempotency actually is implemented correctly in the server.

- You can update or create a resource with PUT with the same object URL

- With POST you can have 2 requests coming in at the same time making modifications to a URL, and they may update different parts of the object.

An example:

I wrote the following as part of another answer on SO regarding this:

POST:

Used to modify and update a resource

Note that the following is an error:

If the URL is not yet created, you
should not be using POST to create it
while specifying the name.  This should
result in a 'resource not found' error
because  does not exist
yet.  You should PUT the 
resource on the server first.

You could though do something like
this to create a resources using POST:

Note that in this case the resource
name is not specified, the new objects
URL path would be returned to you.

PUT:

Used to create a resource, or
overwrite it.  While you specify the
resources new URL.

For a new resource:

To overwrite an existing resource:

Additionally, and a bit more concisely, RFC 7231 Section 4.3.4 PUT states (emphasis added),

4.3.4.  PUT

The PUT method requests that the state of the target resource be
 or  with the state defined by the representation
enclosed in the request message payload.

A: Branch prediction.

With a sorted array, the condition  is first  for a streak of values, then becomes  for all later values. That's easy to predict. With an unsorted array, you pay for the branching cost.

A: You can force Android to hide the virtual keyboard using the InputMethodManager, calling , passing in the token of the window containing your focused view.

This will force the keyboard to be hidden in all situations. In some cases, you will want to pass in  as the second parameter to ensure you only hide the keyboard when the user didn't explicitly force it to appear (by holding down the menu).

Note: If you want to do this in Kotlin, use:

Kotlin Syntax

A: It prevents JSON hijacking, a major JSON security issue that is formally fixed in all major browsers since 2011 with ECMAScript 5.

Contrived example: say Google has a URL like  which returns the first 50 messages of your inbox in JSON format. Evil websites on other domains can't make AJAX requests to get this data due to the same-origin policy, but they can include the URL via a  tag. The URL is visited with your cookies, and by overriding the global array constructor or accessor methods they can have a method called whenever an object (array or hash) attribute is set, allowing them to read the JSON content.

The  or  prevents this: an AJAX request at  will have full access to the text content, and can strip it away. But a  tag insertion blindly executes the JavaScript without any processing, resulting in either an infinite loop or a syntax error.

This does not address the issue of cross-site request forgery.

A: URIs identify and URLs locate; however, locators are also identifiers, so every URL is also a URI, but there are URIs which are not URLs.
Examples

- Roger Pate

This is my name, which is an identifier.
It is like a URI, but cannot be a URL, as it tells you nothing about my location or how to contact me.
In this case it also happens to identify at least 5 other people in the USA alone.

- 4914 West Bay Street, Nassau, Bahamas

This is a locator, which is an identifier for that physical location.
It is like both a URL and URI (since all URLs are URIs), and also identifies me indirectly as "resident of..".
In this case it uniquely identifies me, but that would change if I get a roommate.

I say "like" because these examples do not follow the required syntax.
Popular confusion

From Wikipedia:

In computing, a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) is a subset of the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) that specifies where an identified resource is available and the mechanism for retrieving it. In popular usage and in many technical documents and verbal discussions it is often incorrectly used as a synonym for URI, ... [emphasis mine]

Because of this common confusion, many products and documentation incorrectly use one term instead of the other, assign their own distinction, or use them synonymously.
URNs

My name, Roger Pate, could be like a URN (Uniform Resource Name), except those are much more regulated and intended to be unique across both space and time.

Because I currently share this name with other people, it's not globally unique and would not be appropriate as a URN.  However, even if no other family used this name, I'm named after my paternal grandfather, so it still wouldn't be unique across time.  And even if that wasn't the case, the possibility of naming my descendants after me make this unsuitable as a URN.

URNs are different from URLs in this rigid uniqueness constraint, even though they both share the syntax of URIs.

A: Every function in JavaScript maintains a link to its outer lexical environment. A lexical environment is a map of all the names (eg. variables, parameters) within a scope, with their values.

So, whenever you see the  keyword, code inside that function has access to variables declared outside the function.







This will log  because function  closes over the parameter  and the variable , both of which exist in the lexical environment of outer function .

Function , together with its link with the lexical environment of function  is a closure. 

A function doesn't have to return in order to create a closure. Simply by virtue of its declaration, every function closes over its enclosing lexical environment, forming a closure.







The above function will also log 16, because the code inside  can still refer to argument  and variable , even though they are no longer directly in scope.

However, since  is still hanging around inside 's closure, it is available to be incremented. It will be incremented each time you call .

The simplest example of a closure is this:







When a JavaScript function is invoked, a new execution context  is created. Together with the function arguments and the target object, this execution context also receives a link to the lexical environment of the calling execution context, meaning the variables declared in the outer lexical environment (in the above example, both  and ) are available from .

Every function creates a closure because every function has a link to its outer lexical environment. 

Note that variables themselves are visible from within a closure, not copies.

A: Or for something completely different...  slides to .

Not so mathematical, but... every picture paints a thousand words...

A: Docker originally used LinuX Containers (LXC), but later switched to runC (formerly known as libcontainer), which runs in the same operating system as its host. This allows it to share a lot of the host operating system resources. Also, it uses a layered filesystem (AuFS) and manages networking.

AuFS is a layered file system, so you can have a read only part and a write part which are merged together. One could have the common parts of the operating system as read only (and shared amongst all of your containers) and then give each container its own mount for writing.

So, let's say you have a 1 GB container image; if you wanted to use a full VM, you would need to have 1 GB x number of VMs you want. With Docker and AuFS you can share the bulk of the 1 GB between all the containers and if you have 1000 containers you still might only have a little over 1 GB of space for the containers OS (assuming they are all running the same OS image).

A full virtualized system gets its own set of resources allocated to it, and does minimal sharing. You get more isolation, but it is much heavier (requires more resources). With Docker you get less isolation, but the containers are lightweight (require fewer resources). So you could easily run thousands of containers on a host, and it won't even blink. Try doing that with Xen, and unless you have a really big host, I don't think it is possible.

A full virtualized system usually takes minutes to start, whereas Docker/LXC/runC containers take seconds, and often even less than a second.

There are pros and cons for each type of virtualized system. If you want full isolation with guaranteed resources, a full VM is the way to go. If you just want to isolate processes from each other and want to run a ton of them on a reasonably sized host, then Docker/LXC/runC seems to be the way to go.

For more information, check out this set of blog posts which do a good job of explaining how LXC works.

  

Why is deploying software to a docker image (if that's the right term) easier than simply deploying to a consistent production environment?

Deploying a consistent production environment is easier said than done. Even if you use tools like Chef and Puppet, there are always OS updates and other things that change between hosts and environments.

Docker gives you the ability to snapshot the OS into a shared image, and makes it easy to deploy on other Docker hosts. Locally, dev, qa, prod, etc.: all the same image. Sure you can do this with other tools, but not nearly as easily or fast.

This is great for testing; let's say you have thousands of tests that need to connect to a database, and each test needs a pristine copy of the database and will make changes to the data. The classic approach to this is to reset the database after every test either with custom code or with tools like Flyway - this can be very time-consuming and means that tests must be run serially. However, with Docker you could create an image of your database and run up one instance per test, and then run all the tests in parallel since you know they will all be running against the same snapshot of the database. Since the tests are running in parallel and in Docker containers they could run all on the same box at the same time and should finish much faster. Try doing that with a full VM.

From comments...

  

Interesting! I suppose I'm still confused by the notion of "snapshot[ting] the OS". How does one do that without, well, making an image of the OS?

Well, let's see if I can explain. You start with a base image, and then make your changes, and commit those changes using docker, and it creates an image. This image contains only the differences from the base. When you want to run your image, you also need the base, and it layers your image on top of the base using a layered file system: as mentioned above, Docker uses AuFS. AuFS merges the different layers together and you get what you want; you just need to run it. You can keep adding more and more images (layers) and it will continue to only save the diffs. Since Docker typically builds on top of ready-made images from a registry, you rarely have to "snapshot" the whole OS yourself.

A: Maybe a bit of example code will help: Notice the difference in the call signatures of ,  and :

Below is the usual way an object instance calls a method. The object instance, , is implicitly passed as the first argument.

With classmethods, the class of the object instance is implicitly passed as the first argument instead of .

You can also call  using the class. In fact, if you define something to be
a classmethod, it is probably because you intend to call it from the class rather than from a class instance.  would have raised a TypeError, but  works just fine:

One use people have found for class methods is to create inheritable alternative constructors.

With staticmethods, neither  (the object instance) nor   (the class) is implicitly passed as the first argument. They behave like plain functions except that you can call them from an instance or the class:

Staticmethods are used to group functions which have some logical connection with a class to the class.

 is just a function, but when you call  you don't just get the function,
you get a "partially applied" version of the function with the object instance  bound as the first argument to the function.  expects 2 arguments, while  only expects 1 argument.

 is bound to . That is what is meant by the term "bound" below:

With ,  is not bound to , rather the class  is bound to .

Here, with a staticmethod, even though it is a method,  just returns
a good 'ole function with no arguments bound.  expects 1 argument, and
 expects 1 argument too.

And of course the same thing happens when you call  with the class  instead.

A: Lots of complicated and dangerous answers here, but it's actually easy:

This will revert everything from the HEAD back to the commit hash (excluded), meaning it will recreate that commit state in the working tree as if every commit after  had been walked back. You can then commit the current tree, and it will create a brand new commit essentially equivalent to the commit you "reverted" to.

(The  flag lets git revert all the commits at once- otherwise you'll be prompted for a message for each commit in the range, littering your history with unnecessary new commits.)

This is a safe and easy way to rollback to a previous state. No history is destroyed, so it can be used for commits that have already been made public.

Note on merge commits:

If one of the commits between 0766c053..HEAD (inclusive) is a merge then there will be an error popping up (to do with no -m specified). The following link may help those encountering that: Why does git revert complain about a missing -m option? (thanks @timhc22 for pointing out)

A: PART I: How To Log In

We'll assume you already know how to build a login+password HTML form which POSTs the values to a script on the server side for authentication. The sections below will deal with patterns for sound practical auth, and how to avoid the most common security pitfalls.

To HTTPS or not to HTTPS?

Unless the connection is already secure (that is, tunneled through HTTPS using SSL/TLS), your login form values will be sent in cleartext, which allows anyone eavesdropping on the line between browser and web server will be able to read logins as they pass through. This type of wiretapping is done routinely by governments, but in general, we won't address 'owned' wires other than to say this: Just use HTTPS.

In essence, the only practical way to protect against wiretapping/packet sniffing during login is by using HTTPS or another certificate-based encryption scheme (for example, TLS) or a proven & tested challenge-response scheme (for example, the Diffie-Hellman-based SRP). Any other method can be easily circumvented by an eavesdropping attacker.

Of course, if you are willing to get a little bit impractical, you could also employ some form of two-factor authentication scheme (e.g. the Google Authenticator app, a physical 'cold war style' codebook, or an RSA key generator dongle). If applied correctly, this could work even with an unsecured connection, but it's hard to imagine that a dev would be willing to implement two-factor auth but not SSL.

(Do not) Roll-your-own JavaScript encryption/hashing

Given the perceived (though now avoidable) cost and technical difficulty of setting up an SSL certificate on your website, some developers are tempted to roll their own in-browser hashing or encryption schemes in order to avoid passing cleartext logins over an unsecured wire.

While this is a noble thought, it is essentially useless (and can be a security flaw) unless it is combined with one of the above - that is, either securing the line with strong encryption or using a tried-and-tested challenge-response mechanism (if you don't know what that is, just know that it is one of the most difficult to prove, most difficult to design, and most difficult to implement concepts in digital security).

While it is true that hashing the password can be effective against password disclosure, it is vulnerable to replay attacks, Man-In-The-Middle attacks / hijackings (if an attacker can inject a few bytes into your unsecured HTML page before it reaches your browser, they can simply comment out the hashing in the JavaScript), or brute-force attacks (since you are handing the attacker both username, salt and hashed password).

CAPTCHAS against humanity

CAPTCHA is meant to thwart one specific category of attack: automated dictionary/brute force trial-and-error with no human operator. There is no doubt that this is a real threat, however, there are ways of dealing with it seamlessly that don't require a CAPTCHA, specifically properly designed server-side login throttling schemes - we'll discuss those later.

Know that CAPTCHA implementations are not created alike; they often aren't human-solvable, most of them are actually ineffective against bots, all of them are ineffective against cheap third-world labor (according to OWASP, the current sweatshop rate is $12 per 500 tests), and some implementations may be technically illegal in some countries (see OWASP Authentication Cheat Sheet). If you must use a CAPTCHA, use Google's reCAPTCHA, since it is OCR-hard by definition (since it uses already OCR-misclassified book scans) and tries very hard to be user-friendly.

Personally, I tend to find CAPTCHAS annoying, and use them only as a last resort when a user has failed to log in a number of times and throttling delays are maxed out. This will happen rarely enough to be acceptable, and it strengthens the system as a whole.

Storing Passwords / Verifying logins

This may finally be common knowledge after all the highly-publicized hacks and user data leaks we've seen in recent years, but it has to be said: Do not store passwords in cleartext in your database. User databases are routinely hacked, leaked or gleaned through SQL injection, and if you are storing raw, plaintext passwords, that is instant game over for your login security.

So if you can't store the password, how do you check that the login+password combination POSTed from the login form is correct? The answer is hashing using a key derivation function. Whenever a new user is created or a password is changed, you take the password and run it through a KDF, such as Argon2, bcrypt, scrypt or PBKDF2, turning the cleartext password ("correcthorsebatterystaple") into a long, random-looking string, which is a lot safer to store in your database. To verify a login, you run the same hash function on the entered password, this time passing in the salt and compare the resulting hash string to the value stored in your database. Argon2, bcrypt and scrypt store the salt with the hash already. Check out this article on sec.stackexchange for more detailed information.

The reason a salt is used is that hashing in itself is not sufficient -- you'll want to add a so-called 'salt' to protect the hash against rainbow tables. A salt effectively prevents two passwords that exactly match from being stored as the same hash value, preventing the whole database being scanned in one run if an attacker is executing a password guessing attack.

A cryptographic hash should not be used for password storage because user-selected passwords are not strong enough (i.e. do not usually contain enough entropy) and a password guessing attack could be completed in a relatively short time by an attacker with access to the hashes. This is why KDFs are used - these effectively "stretch the key", which means that every password guess an attacker makes causes multiple repetitions of the hash algorithm, for example 10,000 times, which causes the attacker to guess the password 10,000 times slower.

Session data - "You are logged in as Spiderman69"

Once the server has verified the login and password against your user database and found a match, the system needs a way to remember that the browser has been authenticated. This fact should only ever be stored server side in the session data.

If you are unfamiliar with session data, here's how it works: A single randomly-generated string is stored in an expiring cookie and used to reference a collection of data - the session data - which is stored on the server. If you are using an MVC framework, this is undoubtedly handled already.

If at all possible, make sure the session cookie has the secure and HTTP Only flags set when sent to the browser. The HttpOnly flag provides some protection against the cookie being read through XSS attack. The secure flag ensures that the cookie is only sent back via HTTPS, and therefore protects against network sniffing attacks. The value of the cookie should not be predictable. Where a cookie referencing a non-existent session is presented, its value should be replaced immediately to prevent session fixation.

Session state can also be maintained on the client side. This is achieved by using techniques like JWT (JSON Web Token).
PART II: How To Remain Logged In - The Infamous "Remember Me" Checkbox

Persistent Login Cookies ("remember me" functionality) are a danger zone; on the one hand, they are entirely as safe as conventional logins when users understand how to handle them; and on the other hand, they are an enormous security risk in the hands of careless users, who may use them on public computers and forget to log out, and who may not know what browser cookies are or how to delete them.

Personally, I like persistent logins for the websites I visit on a regular basis, but I know how to handle them safely. If you are positive that your users know the same, you can use persistent logins with a clean conscience. If not - well, then you may subscribe to the philosophy that users who are careless with their login credentials brought it upon themselves if they get hacked. It's not like we go to our user's houses and tear off all those facepalm-inducing Post-It notes with passwords they have lined up on the edge of their monitors, either.

Of course, some systems can't afford to have any accounts hacked; for such systems, there is no way you can justify having persistent logins.

If you DO decide to implement persistent login cookies, this is how you do it:

- 

First, take some time to read Paragon Initiative's article on the subject. You'll need to get a bunch of elements right, and the article does a great job of explaining each.

- 

And just to reiterate one of the most common pitfalls, DO NOT STORE THE PERSISTENT LOGIN COOKIE (TOKEN) IN YOUR DATABASE, ONLY A HASH OF IT! The login token is Password Equivalent, so if an attacker got their hands on your database, they could use the tokens to log in to any account, just as if they were cleartext login-password combinations. Therefore, use hashing (according to https://security.stackexchange.com/a/63438/5002 a weak hash will do just fine for this purpose) when storing persistent login tokens.

PART III: Using Secret Questions

Don't implement 'secret questions'. The 'secret questions' feature is a security anti-pattern. Read the paper from link number 4 from the MUST-READ list. You can ask Sarah Palin about that one, after her Yahoo! email account got hacked during a previous presidential campaign because the answer to her security question was... "Wasilla High School"!

Even with user-specified questions, it is highly likely that most users will choose either:

- 

A 'standard' secret question like mother's maiden name or favorite pet

- 

A simple piece of trivia that anyone could lift from their blog, LinkedIn profile, or similar

- 

Any question that is easier to answer than guessing their password. Which, for any decent password, is every question you can imagine

In conclusion, security questions are inherently insecure in virtually all their forms and variations, and should not be employed in an authentication scheme for any reason.

The true reason why security questions even exist in the wild is that they conveniently save the cost of a few support calls from users who can't access their email to get to a reactivation code. This at the expense of security and Sarah Palin's reputation. Worth it? Probably not.
PART IV: Forgotten Password Functionality

I already mentioned why you should never use security questions for handling forgotten/lost user passwords; it also goes without saying that you should never e-mail users their actual passwords. There are at least two more all-too-common pitfalls to avoid in this field:

- 

Don't reset a forgotten password to an autogenerated strong password - such passwords are notoriously hard to remember, which means the user must either change it or write it down - say, on a bright yellow Post-It on the edge of their monitor. Instead of setting a new password, just let users pick a new one right away - which is what they want to do anyway. (An exception to this might be if the users are universally using a password manager to store/manage passwords that would normally be impossible to remember without writing it down).

- 

Always hash the lost password code/token in the database. AGAIN, this code is another example of a Password Equivalent, so it MUST be hashed in case an attacker got their hands on your database. When a lost password code is requested, send the plaintext code to the user's email address, then hash it, save the hash in your database -- and throw away the original. Just like a password or a persistent login token.

A final note: always make sure your interface for entering the 'lost password code' is at least as secure as your login form itself, or an attacker will simply use this to gain access instead. Making sure you generate very long 'lost password codes' (for example, 16 case-sensitive alphanumeric characters) is a good start, but consider adding the same throttling scheme that you do for the login form itself.
PART V: Checking Password Strength

First, you'll want to read this small article for a reality check: The 500 most common passwords

Okay, so maybe the list isn't the canonical list of most common passwords on any system anywhere ever, but it's a good indication of how poorly people will choose their passwords when there is no enforced policy in place. Plus, the list looks frighteningly close to home when you compare it to publicly available analyses of recently stolen passwords.

So: With no minimum password strength requirements, 2% of users use one of the top 20 most common passwords. Meaning: if an attacker gets just 20 attempts, 1 in 50 accounts on your website will be crackable.

Thwarting this requires calculating the entropy of a password and then applying a threshold.  The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication 800-63 has a set of very good suggestions.  That, when combined with a dictionary and keyboard layout analysis (for example, 'qwertyuiop' is a bad password), can reject 99% of all poorly selected passwords at a level of 18 bits of entropy.  Simply calculating password strength and showing a visual strength meter to a user is good, but insufficient.  Unless it is enforced, a lot of users will most likely ignore it.

And for a refreshing take on user-friendliness of high-entropy passwords, Randall Munroe's Password Strength xkcd is highly recommended.

Utilize Troy Hunt's Have I Been Pwned API to check users passwords against passwords compromised in public data breaches.
PART VI: Much More - Or: Preventing Rapid-Fire Login Attempts

First, have a look at the numbers: Password Recovery Speeds - How long will your password stand up

If you don't have the time to look through the tables in that link, here's the list of them:

- 

It takes virtually no time to crack a weak password, even if you're cracking it with an abacus

- 

It takes virtually no time to crack an alphanumeric 9-character password if it is case insensitive

- 

It takes virtually no time to crack an intricate, symbols-and-letters-and-numbers, upper-and-lowercase password if it is less than 8 characters long (a desktop PC can search the entire keyspace up to 7 characters in a matter of days or even hours)

- 

It would, however, take an inordinate amount of time to crack even a 6-character password, if you were limited to one attempt per second!

So what can we learn from these numbers? Well, lots, but we can focus on the most important part: the fact that preventing large numbers of rapid-fire successive login attempts (ie. the brute force attack) really isn't that difficult. But preventing it right isn't as easy as it seems.

Generally speaking, you have three choices that are all effective against brute-force attacks (and dictionary attacks, but since you are already employing a strong passwords policy, they shouldn't be an issue):

- 

Present a CAPTCHA after N failed attempts (annoying as hell and often ineffective -- but I'm repeating myself here)

- 

Locking accounts and requiring email verification after N failed attempts (this is a DoS attack waiting to happen)

- 

And finally, login throttling: that is, setting a time delay between attempts after N failed attempts (yes, DoS attacks are still possible, but at least they are far less likely and a lot more complicated to pull off).

Best practice #1: A short time delay that increases with the number of failed attempts, like:

- 1 failed attempt = no delay

- 2 failed attempts = 2 sec delay

- 3 failed attempts = 4 sec delay

- 4 failed attempts = 8 sec delay

- 5 failed attempts = 16 sec delay

- etc.

DoS attacking this scheme would be very impractical, since the resulting lockout time is slightly larger than the sum of the previous lockout times.

To clarify: The delay is not a delay before returning the response to the browser. It is more like a timeout or refractory period during which login attempts to a specific account or from a specific IP address will not be accepted or evaluated at all. That is, correct credentials will not return in a successful login, and incorrect credentials will not trigger a delay increase.

Best practice #2: A medium length time delay that goes into effect after N failed attempts, like:

- 1-4 failed attempts = no delay

- 5 failed attempts = 15-30 min delay

DoS attacking this scheme would be quite impractical, but certainly doable. Also, it might be relevant to note that such a long delay can be very annoying for a legitimate user. Forgetful users will dislike you.

Best practice #3: Combining the two approaches - either a fixed, short time delay that goes into effect after N failed attempts, like:

- 1-4 failed attempts = no delay

- 5+ failed attempts = 20 sec delay

Or, an increasing delay with a fixed upper bound, like:

- 1 failed attempt = 5 sec delay

- 2 failed attempts = 15 sec delay

- 3+ failed attempts = 45 sec delay

This final scheme was taken from the OWASP best-practices suggestions (link 1 from the MUST-READ list) and should be considered best practice, even if it is admittedly on the restrictive side.

As a rule of thumb, however, I would say: the stronger your password policy is, the less you have to bug users with delays. If you require strong (case-sensitive alphanumerics + required numbers and symbols) 9+ character passwords, you could give the users 2-4 non-delayed password attempts before activating the throttling.

DoS attacking this final login throttling scheme would be very impractical. And as a final touch, always allow persistent (cookie) logins (and/or a CAPTCHA-verified login form) to pass through, so legitimate users won't even be delayed while the attack is in progress. That way, the very impractical DoS attack becomes an extremely impractical attack.

Additionally, it makes sense to do more aggressive throttling on admin accounts, since those are the most attractive entry points
PART VII: Distributed Brute Force Attacks

Just as an aside, more advanced attackers will try to circumvent login throttling by 'spreading their activities':

- 

Distributing the attempts on a botnet to prevent IP address flagging

- 

Rather than picking one user and trying the 50.000 most common passwords (which they can't, because of our throttling), they will pick THE most common password and try it against 50.000 users instead. That way, not only do they get around maximum-attempts measures like CAPTCHAs and login throttling, their chance of success increases as well, since the number 1 most common password is far more likely than number 49.995

- 

Spacing the login requests for each user account, say, 30 seconds apart, to sneak under the radar

Here, the best practice would be logging the number of failed logins, system-wide, and using a running average of your site's bad-login frequency as the basis for an upper limit that you then impose on all users.

Too abstract? Let me rephrase:

Say your site has had an average of 120 bad logins per day over the past 3 months. Using that (running average), your system might set the global limit to 3 times that -- ie. 360 failed attempts over a 24 hour period. Then, if the total number of failed attempts across all accounts exceeds that number within one day (or even better, monitor the rate of acceleration and trigger on a calculated threshold), it activates system-wide login throttling - meaning short delays for ALL users (still, with the exception of cookie logins and/or backup CAPTCHA logins).

I also posted a question with more details and a really good discussion of how to avoid tricky pitfals in fending off distributed brute force attacks
PART VIII: Two-Factor Authentication and Authentication Providers

Credentials can be compromised, whether by exploits, passwords being written down and lost, laptops with keys being stolen, or users entering logins into phishing sites.  Logins can be further protected with two-factor authentication, which uses out-of-band factors such as single-use codes received from a phone call, SMS message, app, or dongle. Several providers offer two-factor authentication services.

Authentication can be completely delegated to a single-sign-on service, where another provider handles collecting credentials. This pushes the problem to a trusted third party. Google and Twitter both provide standards-based SSO services, while Facebook provides a similar proprietary solution.
MUST-READ LINKS About Web Authentication

- OWASP Guide To Authentication / OWASP Authentication Cheat Sheet

- Dos and Don’ts of Client Authentication on the Web (very readable MIT research paper)

- Wikipedia: HTTP cookie

- Personal knowledge questions for fallback authentication: Security questions in the era of Facebook (very readable Berkeley research paper)

A: The reason why performance improves drastically when the data is sorted is that the branch prediction penalty is removed, as explained beautifully in Mysticial's answer.

Now, if we look at the code

we can find that the meaning of this particular  branch is to add something when a condition is satisfied. This type of branch can be easily transformed into a conditional move statement, which would be compiled into a conditional move instruction: , in an  system. The branch and thus the potential branch prediction penalty is removed.

In , thus , the statement, which would compile directly (without any optimization) into the conditional move instruction in , is the ternary operator . So we rewrite the above statement into an equivalent one:

While maintaining readability, we can check the speedup factor.

On an Intel Core i7-2600K @ 3.4 GHz and Visual Studio 2010 Release Mode, the benchmark is:

x86

Scenario
Time (seconds)

Branching - Random data
8.885

Branching - Sorted data
1.528

Branchless - Random data
3.716

Branchless - Sorted data
3.71

x64

Scenario
Time (seconds)

Branching - Random data
11.302

Branching - Sorted data
1.830

Branchless - Random data
2.736

Branchless - Sorted data
2.737

The result is robust in multiple tests. We get a great speedup when the branch result is unpredictable, but we suffer a little bit when it is predictable. In fact, when using a conditional move, the performance is the same regardless of the data pattern.

Now let's look more closely by investigating the  assembly they generate. For simplicity, we use two functions  and .

 uses the conditional branch :

 uses the ternary operator :

On an x86-64 machine,  generates the assembly below.

 uses much less code due to the usage of instruction . But the real gain is that  does not involve branch jumps, , which would have a significant performance penalty if the predicted result is not right.

So why does a conditional move perform better?

In a typical  processor, the execution of an instruction is divided into several stages. Roughly, we have different hardware to deal with different stages. So we do not have to wait for one instruction to finish to start a new one. This is called pipelining.

In a branch case, the following instruction is determined by the preceding one, so we cannot do pipelining. We have to either wait or predict.

In a conditional move case, the execution of conditional move instruction is divided into several stages, but the earlier stages like  and  do not depend on the result of the previous instruction; only the latter stages need the result. Thus, we wait a fraction of one instruction's execution time. This is why the conditional move version is slower than the branch when the prediction is easy.

The book Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective, second edition explains this in detail. You can check Section 3.6.6 for Conditional Move Instructions, entire Chapter 4 for Processor Architecture, and Section 5.11.2 for special treatment for Branch Prediction and Misprediction Penalties.

Sometimes, some modern compilers can optimize our code to assembly with better performance, and sometimes some compilers can't (the code in question is using Visual Studio's native compiler). Knowing the performance difference between a branch and a conditional move when unpredictable can help us write code with better performance when the scenario gets so complex that the compiler can not optimize them automatically.

A: Just for the sake of completeness, here's a brain dump of related information...

As others have noted,  is an alias for . Assuming your code using  compiles to  (i.e. you haven't got a using directive for some other namespace with a different  type), they compile to the same code, so at execution time there is no difference whatsoever. This is just one of the aliases in C#. The complete list is:

Apart from  and , the aliases are all to value types.  is a value type, but not a primitive type in the CLR.

In the spec, the value type aliases are known as "simple types". Literals can be used for constant values of every simple type; no other value types have literal forms available. (Compare this with VB, which allows  literals, and has an alias for it too.)

There is one circumstance in which you have to use the aliases: when explicitly specifying an enum's underlying type. For instance:

That's just a matter of the way the spec defines enum declarations - the part after the colon has to be the integral-type production, which is one token of , , , , , , , , ... as opposed to a type production as used by variable declarations for example. It doesn't indicate any other difference.

Finally, when it comes to which to use: personally I use the aliases everywhere for the implementation, but the CLR type for any APIs. It really doesn't matter too much which you use in terms of implementation - consistency among your team is nice, but no-one else is going to care. On the other hand, it's genuinely important that if you refer to a type in an API, you do so in a language-neutral way. A method called  is unambiguous, whereas a method called  requires interpretation. The caller could be using a language that defines an  alias for , for example. The .NET framework designers have followed this pattern, good examples being in the ,  and  classes.

Q: What are the differences between a HashMap and a Hashtable in Java?

What are the differences between a  and a  in Java?

Which is more efficient for non-threaded applications?

Q: UPDATE from a SELECT

In SQL Server, it is possible to insert rows into a table with an  statement:

Is it also possible to update a table with ? I have a temporary table containing the values and would like to update another table using those values. Perhaps something like this:

Q: How do I copy to the clipboard in JavaScript?

How do I copy text to the clipboard (multi-browser)?

Related: How does Trello access the user's clipboard?

Q: How to round to at most 2 decimal places, if necessary

I'd like to round at most two decimal places, but only if necessary.

Input:

Output:

How can I do this in JavaScript?

Q: Is there a CSS parent selector?

How do I select the  element that is a direct parent of the anchor element?

As an example, my CSS would be something like this:

Obviously there are ways of doing this with JavaScript, but I'm hoping that there is some sort of workaround that exists native to CSS Level 2.

The menu that I am trying to style is being spewed out by a CMS, so I can't move the active element to the  element... (unless I theme the menu creation module which I'd rather not do).

Q: How can I validate an email address using a regular expression?

Over the years I have slowly developed a regular expression that validates most email addresses correctly, assuming they don't use an IP address as the server part.

I use it in several PHP programs, and it works most of the time.  However, from time to time I get contacted by someone that is having trouble with a site that uses it, and I end up having to make some adjustment (most recently I realized that I wasn't allowing four-character TLDs).

What is the best regular expression you have or have seen for validating emails?

I've seen several solutions that use functions that use several shorter expressions, but I'd rather have one long complex expression in a simple function instead of several short expression in a more complex function.

Q: How do I get the current branch name in Git?

How do I get the name of the current branch in Git?

Q: Message 'src refspec master does not match any' when pushing commits in Git

I clone my repository with:

But after I change some files and  and  them, I want to push them to the server:

But the error I get back is:

Q: How can I iterate over rows in a Pandas DataFrame?

I have a pandas dataframe, :

How do I iterate over the rows of this dataframe? For every row, I want to access its elements (values in cells) by the name of the columns. For example:

I found a similar question, which suggests using either of these:

- 

- 

But I do not understand what the  object is and how I can work with it.

Q: Sort array of objects by string property value

I have an array of JavaScript objects:

How can I sort them by the value of  in JavaScript?

I know about , but that only seems to work on strings and numbers. Do I need to add a  method to my objects?

Q: The Definitive C++ Book Guide and List

This question attempts to collect the few pearls among the dozens of bad C++ books that are published every year.

Unlike many other programming languages, which are often picked up on the go from tutorials found on the Internet, few are able to quickly pick up C++ without studying a well-written C++ book. It is way too big and complex for doing this. In fact, it is so big and complex, that there are very many very bad C++ books out there. And we are not talking about bad style, but things like sporting glaringly obvious factual errors and promoting abysmally bad programming styles.

Please edit the accepted answer to provide quality books and an approximate skill level — preferably after discussing your addition in the C++ chat room. (The regulars might mercilessly undo your work if they disagree with a recommendation.) Add a short blurb/description about each book that you have personally read/benefited from. Feel free to debate quality, headings, etc. Books that meet the criteria will be added to the list.  Books that have reviews by the Association of C and C++ Users (ACCU) have links to the review.

*Note: FAQs and other resources can be found in the C++ tag info and under c++-faq.

Q: How do I clone a specific Git branch?

Git clone will clone remote branch into local.

Is there any way to clone a specific branch by myself without switching branches on the remote repository?

Q: What does the !! (double exclamation mark) operator do in JavaScript?

I saw this code:

It seems to be using  as an operator, which I don't recognize. What does it do?

Q: How can I pair socks from a pile efficiently?

Yesterday I was pairing the socks from the clean laundry and figured out the way I was doing it is not very efficient. I was doing a naive search — picking one sock and "iterating" the pile in order to find its pair. This requires iterating over n/2 * n/4 = n2/8 socks on average.

As a computer scientist I was thinking what I could do? Sorting (according to size/color/...) of course came to mind to achieve an O(NlogN) solution.

Hashing or other not-in-place solutions are not an option, because I am not able to duplicate my socks (though it could be nice if I could).

So, the question is basically:

Given a pile of  pairs of socks, containing  elements (assume each sock has exactly one matching pair), what is the best way to pair them up efficiently with up to logarithmic extra space? (I believe I can remember that amount of info if needed.)

I am seeking an answer that addresses the following aspects:

- A general theoretical solution for a huge number of socks.

- The actual number of socks is not that large, I don't believe my spouse and I have more than 30 pairs. (And it is fairly easy to distinguish between my socks and hers; can this be used as well?)

- Is it equivalent to the element distinctness problem?

Q: What exactly is RESTful programming?

What exactly is RESTful programming?

Q: How do I tell if a file does not exist in Bash?

This checks if a file exists:

How do I only check if the file does not exist?

Q: How do I check for an empty/undefined/null string in JavaScript?

Is there a  in JavaScript, or is it just a case of checking for ?

Q: Checking if a key exists in a JavaScript object?

How do I check if a particular key exists in a JavaScript object or array?

If a key doesn't exist, and I try to access it, will it return false? Or throw an error?

Q: grep: show lines surrounding each match

How do I  and show the preceding and following 5 lines surrounding each matched line?

Q: Create ArrayList from array

How do I convert the above variable of type  into a variable of type ?

Q: How do I generate random integers within a specific range in Java?

How do I generate a random  value in a specific range?

The following methods have bugs related to integer overflow:

Q: Make an existing Git branch track a remote branch?

I know how to make a new branch that tracks remote branches, but how do I make an existing branch track a remote branch?

I know I can just edit the  file, but it seems there should be an easier way.

Q: How to loop through the items of an array in JavaScript?

In Java, you can use a  loop to traverse objects in an array as follows:

Can I do the same in JavaScript?

Q: Remove a file from a Git repository without deleting it from the local filesystem

I want to remove a file from my repository.

will remove the file from the repository, but it will also remove the file from the local file system. How do I remove this file from the repo without deleting my local copy of the file?

Q: Proper use cases for Android UserManager.isUserAGoat()?

I was looking at the new APIs introduced in Android 4.2.
While looking at the  class I came across the following method:

  
  

Used to determine whether the user making this call is subject to teleportations.
  
  

Returns whether the user making this call is a goat.

How and when should this be used?

Q: How can I use a global variable in a function?

How do I create or use a global variable inside a function?

How do I use a global variable that was defined in one function inside other functions?

Failing to use the  keyword where appropriate often causes . The precise rules for this are explained at UnboundLocalError on local variable when reassigned after first use. Generally, please close other questions as a duplicate of that question when an explanation is sought, and this question when someone simply needs to know the  keyword.

Q: Move existing, uncommitted work to a new branch in Git

I started some work on a new feature and after coding for a bit, I decided this feature should be on its own branch. 

How do I move the existing uncommitted changes to a new branch and reset my current one?

I want to reset my current branch while preserving existing work on the new feature.

Q: Is floating-point math broken?

Consider the following code:

Why do these inaccuracies happen?

Q: How do I efficiently iterate over each entry in a Java Map?

If I have an object implementing the  interface in Java and I wish to iterate over every pair contained within it,  what is the most efficient way of going through the map?

Will the ordering of elements depend on the specific map implementation that I have for the interface?

Q: How do I get the current time in Python?

How do I get the current time in Python?

Q: View the change history of a file using Git versioning

How do I view the history of an individual file with complete details of what has changed?

 shows me the commit history of a file, but how do I see the file content that changed?

Q: What is the JavaScript version of sleep()?

Is there a better way to engineer a  in JavaScript than the following  function?

Unlike Sleep in JavaScript - delay between actions, I want a real sleep in the middle of a function, and not a delay before a piece of code executes.

Q: How can I catch multiple exceptions in one line? (in the "except" block)

I know that I can do:

I can also do this:

But if I want to do the same thing inside two different exceptions, the best I can think of right now is to do this:

Is there a way that I can do something like this (since the action to take in both exceptions is to ):

Now this really won't work, as it matches the syntax for:

So, my effort to catch the two distinct exceptions doesn't exactly come through.

Is there a way to do this?

Q: How do I POST JSON data with cURL?

I use Ubuntu and installed cURL on it. I want to test my Spring REST application with cURL. I wrote my POST code at the Java side. However, I want to test it with cURL. I am trying to post a JSON data. Example data is like this:

I use this command:

It returns this error:

The error description is this:

The server refused this request because the request entity is in a format not supported by the requested resource for the requested method ().

Tomcat log:
"POST /ui/webapp/conf/clear HTTP/1.1" 415 1051

What is the right format of the cURL command?

This is my Java side  code (I have tested GET and DELETE and they work):

Q: How do I copy a file?

How do I copy a file in Python?

Q: What are the differences between a pointer variable and a reference variable?

What is the difference between a pointer variable and a reference variable?

Q: How do I cast int to enum in C#?

How do I cast an  to an  in C#?

Q: What is __init__.py for?

What is  for in a Python source directory?

Q: How do I test for an empty JavaScript object?

After an AJAX request, sometimes my application may return an empty object, like:

How can I check whether that's the case?

Q: Convert bytes to a string in Python 3

I captured the standard output of an external program into a  object:

I want to convert that to a normal Python string, so that I can print it like this:

How do I convert the  object to a  with Python 3?

See Best way to convert string to bytes in Python 3? for the other way around.

Q: How do I stash only one file out of multiple files that have changed?

How do I stash only one of the multiple changed files on my branch?

Q: Why is char[] preferred over String for passwords?

In Swing, the password field has a  (returns ) method instead of the usual  (returns ) method. Similarly, I have come across a suggestion not to use  to handle passwords.

Why does  pose a threat to security when it comes to passwords?
It feels inconvenient to use .

Q: Why don't Java's +=, -=, *=, /= compound assignment operators require casting?

Until today, I thought that for example:

Was just a shortcut for:

But if we try this:

Then  will not compile but  will compile fine.

Does it mean that in fact  is a shortcut for something like this
?

Q: Get the current URL with JavaScript?

All I want is to get the website URL. Not the URL as taken from a link. On the page loading I need to be able to grab the full, current URL of the website and set it as a variable to do with as I please.

Q: Git refusing to merge unrelated histories on rebase

During  the following error message is shown from Git:

My Git version is 2.9.0. It used to work fine in the previous version. 

How can I continue this rebase allowing unrelated histories with the forced flag introduced in the new release?

Q: What is the difference between __str__ and __repr__?

What is the difference between  and  in Python?

Q: How do I correctly clone a JavaScript object?

I have an object . I'd like to copy it as object , such that changes to  do not modify . I realized that copying objects derived from built-in JavaScript objects will result in extra, unwanted properties. This isn't a problem, since I'm copying one of my own literal-constructed objects.

How do I correctly clone a JavaScript object?

Q: Iterate through a HashMap

What's the best way to iterate over the items in a ?

Q: What does the explicit keyword mean?

What does the  keyword mean in C++?

Q: How can I pretty-print JSON in a shell script?

Is there a (Unix) shell script to format JSON in human-readable form?

Basically, I want it to transform the following:

... into something like this:

Q: How can I create a memory leak in Java?

I just had an interview where I was asked to create a memory leak with Java.

Needless to say, I felt pretty dumb, having no idea how to start creating one.

What would an example be?

Q: How do I create a remote Git branch?

I created a local branch. How do I push it to the remote server?

Q: What is the difference between public, protected, package-private and private in Java?

In Java, are there clear rules on when to use each of access modifiers, namely the default (package private), ,  and , while making  and  and dealing with inheritance?

Q: Set cellpadding and cellspacing in CSS?

In an HTML table, the  and  can be set like this:

How can the same be accomplished using CSS?

Q: Commit only part of a file's changes in Git

When I make changes to a file in Git, how can I commit only some of the changes?

For example, how could I commit only 15 lines out of 30 lines that have been changed in a file?

Q: How do you push a tag to a remote repository using Git?

I added a tag to the master branch on my machine:

How do I push this to the remote repository? Running  gives the message:

Everything up-to-date

However, the remote repository does not contain my tag.

Q: How do I list all the files in a commit?

How can I print a plain list of all files that were part of a given commit?

Although the following lists the files, it also includes unwanted diff information for each:

Q: 403 Forbidden vs 401 Unauthorized HTTP responses

For a web page that exists, but for which a user does not have sufficient privileges (they are not logged in or do not belong to the proper user group), what is the proper HTTP response to serve?

?

?

Something else?

What I've read on each so far isn't very clear on the difference between the two. What use cases are appropriate for each response?

Q: What is dependency injection?

There have been several questions already posted with specific questions about dependency injection, such as when to use it and what frameworks are there for it. However,

What is dependency injection and when/why should or shouldn't it be used?

Q: Echo newline in Bash prints literal \n

How do I print a newline? This merely prints :

Output:

Q: How to check if a string contains a substring in Bash

I have a string in Bash:

How can I test if it contains another string?

Where  is my unknown operator. Do I use  and ?

That looks a bit clumsy.

Q: When to use LinkedList over ArrayList in Java?

I've always been one to simply use:

I use the interface as the type name for portability, so that when I ask questions such as this, I can rework my code.

When should  be used over  and vice-versa?

Q: How do I select rows from a DataFrame based on column values?

How can I select rows from a DataFrame based on values in some column in Pandas?

In SQL, I would use:

Q: How do I loop through or enumerate a JavaScript object?

I have a JavaScript object like the following:

How do I loop through all of 's elements (, , ...) and get their keys and values?

Q: How can I convert a string to boolean in JavaScript?

Can I convert a string representing a boolean value (e.g., 'true', 'false') into an intrinsic type in JavaScript?

I have a hidden form in HTML that is updated based on a user's selection within a list. This form contains some fields which represent boolean values and are dynamically populated with an intrinsic boolean value. However, once this value is placed into the hidden input field it becomes a string.

The only way I could find to determine the field's boolean value, once it was converted into a string, was to depend upon the literal value of its string representation.

Is there a better way to accomplish this?

Q: How to concatenate string variables in Bash

In PHP, strings are concatenated together as follows:

Here,  becomes .

How is this accomplished in Bash?

Q: How do I format a date in JavaScript?

How do I format a Javascript  object as a string? (Preferable format: )

Q: How do I copy a folder from remote to local using scp?

How do I copy a folder from remote to local host using ?

I use  to log in to my server.

Then, I would like to copy the remote folder  to local .

How do I achieve this?

Q: How can I add new keys to a dictionary?

How do I add a new key to an existing dictionary? It doesn't have an  method.

Q: Does Python have a string 'contains' substring method?

I'm looking for a  or  method in Python.

I want to do:

Q: Why is the Android emulator so slow? How can we speed up the Android emulator?

I have got a 2.67  GHz Celeron processor, and 1.21  GB of RAM on a x86 Windows XP Professional machine.

My understanding is that the Android Emulator should start fairly quickly on such a machine, but for me, it doesn't. I have followed all the instructions in setting up the IDE, SDKs, JDKs and such and have had some success in starting the emulator quickly, but that is very rare. How can I, if possible, fix this problem?

Even if it starts and loads the home screen, it is very sluggish. I have tried the Eclipse IDE in version 3.5 (Galileo) and 3.4 (Ganymede).

Q: From inside of a Docker container, how do I connect to the localhost of the machine?

I have an Nginx instance running inside a Docker container. I have a MySQL running on the host system. I want to connect to the MySQL from within my container. MySQL is only binding to the localhost device.

Is there a way to connect to this MySQL or any other program on localhost from within this docker container?

This question is different from "How to get the IP address of the Docker host from inside a Docker container" due to the fact that the IP address of the Docker host could be the public IP address or the private IP address in the network which may or may not be reachable from within the Docker container (I mean public IP address if hosted at AWS or something).

Even if you have the IP address of the Docker host, it does not mean you can connect to the Docker host from within the container, given that IP address as your Docker network may be overlay, host, bridge, macvlan, none. etc., which restricts the reachability of that IP address.

Q: pretty-print JSON using JavaScript

How can I display JSON in an easy-to-read (for human readers) format? I'm looking primarily for indentation and whitespace, with perhaps even colors / font-styles / etc.

Q: How to add images to README.md on GitHub?

Recently I joined GitHub. I hosted some projects there.

I need to include some images in my README File. I don't know how to do that.

I searched about this, but all I got was some links which tell me to "host images on web and specify the image path in README.md file".

Is there any way to do this without hosting the images on any third-party web hosting services?

Q: How can I delete a file or folder in Python?

How can I delete a file or folder in Python?

Q: How do I convert a String to an int in Java?

How can I convert a  value to an  type?

Q: How can I assign a multiline string literal to a variable?

How do I convert this Ruby code with a multiline string into JavaScript?

Q: Git is not working after macOS update ("xcrun: error: invalid active developer path (/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools")

I updated to the latest OS, and/or restarted my computer (this happens on every major update, but this time all I did was restart my computer on 2022-09-13).

This morning I navigated to my work's codebase in the command line on my MacBook Pro, typed in "git status" in the repository and received an error:

(In 9/2022, this error was much different, but I didn't capture it)

xcrun: error: invalid active developer path (/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools), missing xcrun at: /Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/xcrun

Git will not work!

How do I fix Git, and the command-line tools?

Q: "Least Astonishment" and the Mutable Default Argument

Python novices expect this function called with no parameter to always return a list with only one element: . The result is  different and astonishing:

The behavior has an underlying explanation, but it is unexpected if you don't understand internals. What is the reason for binding the default argument at function definition, and not at function execution? I doubt the experienced behavior has a practical use (who really used static variables in C, without breeding bugs?)

Edit:

Baczek made an interesting example. Together with your comments and Utaal's in particular, I elaborated:

It seems that the design decision was relative to where to put the scope of parameters: inside the function, or "together" with it?

Doing the binding inside the function would mean that  is effectively bound to the specified default when the function is called, not defined, something that would present a deep flaw: the  line would be "hybrid" in the sense that part of the binding (of the function object) would happen at definition, and part (assignment of default parameters) at function invocation time.

The actual behavior is more consistent: everything of that line gets evaluated when that line is executed, meaning at function definition.

Q: How do I make git use the editor of my choice for editing commit messages?

How do I globally configure git to use a particular editor (e.g. ) for commit messages?

Q: What is the difference between call and apply?

What is the difference between using  and  to invoke a function?

 vs. 

Are there performance differences between the two aforementioned methods? When is it best to use  over  and vice versa?

Q: What does ** (double star/asterisk) and * (star/asterisk) do for parameters?

What do  and  mean in these function definitions?

See What do ** (double star/asterisk) and * (star/asterisk) mean in a function call? for the complementary question about arguments.

Q: Difference between "git add -A" and "git add ."

What is the difference between  and ?

Q: How to make '.Contains(string)' case insensitive

Is there a way to make the following return true?

There doesn't seem to be an overload that allows me to set the case sensitivity. Currently I UPPERCASE them both, but that's just silly (by which I am referring to the i18n issues that come with up- and down casing).

Q: What does cherry-picking a commit with Git mean?

What does  do?

Q: What is a serialVersionUID and why should I use it?

Eclipse issues warnings when a  is missing.  

  

The serializable class Foo does not declare a static final
  serialVersionUID field of type long

What is  and why is it important?  Please show an example where missing  will cause a problem.

Q: How do I find out which process is listening on a TCP or UDP port on Windows?

How do I find out which process is listening on a TCP or UDP port on Windows?

Q: What's the problem with "using namespace std;"?

I have heard  is wrong, and that I should use  and  directly instead.

Why is this? Does it risk declaring variables that share the same name as something in the  namespace? Are there performance implications?

Q: How can I access environment variables in Python?

How can I get the value of an environment variable in Python?

Q: How do I list all files of a directory?

How can I list all files of a directory in Python and add them to a ?

Q: How can I change an element's class with JavaScript?

How can I change the class of an HTML element in response to an  or any other events using JavaScript?

Q: AngularJS: Service vs provider vs factory

What are the differences between a ,  and  in AngularJS?

Q: Improve INSERT-per-second performance of SQLite

Optimizing SQLite is tricky. Bulk-insert performance of a C application can vary from 85 inserts per second to over 96,000 inserts per second!

Background: We are using SQLite as part of a desktop application. We have large amounts of configuration data stored in XML files that are parsed and loaded into an SQLite database for further processing when the application is initialized. SQLite is ideal for this situation because it's fast, it requires no specialized configuration, and the database is stored on disk as a single file.

Rationale: Initially I was disappointed with the performance I was seeing. It turns out that the performance of SQLite can vary significantly (both for bulk-inserts and selects) depending on how the database is configured and how you're using the API. It was not a trivial matter to figure out what all of the options and techniques were, so I thought it was prudent to create this community wiki entry to share the results with Stack Overflow readers in order to save others the trouble of the same investigations.

The experiment: Rather than simply talking about performance tips in the general sense (i.e. "Use a transaction!"), I thought it was best to write some C code and actually measure the impact of various options. We're going to start with some simple data:

- A 28 MiB TSV text file (approximately 865,000 records) of the complete transit schedule for the city of Toronto

- My test machine is a 3.60 GHz P4 running Windows XP.

- The code is compiled with Visual C++ 2005 x32 as "Release" with "Full Optimization" () and Favor Fast Code ().

- I'm using the SQLite "Amalgamation", compiled directly into my test application. The SQLite version I happen to have is a bit older (3.6.7), but I suspect these results will be comparable to the latest release (please leave a comment if you think otherwise).

Let's write some code!

The code: A simple C program that reads the text file line-by-line, splits the string into values and then inserts the data into an SQLite database. In this "baseline" version of the code, the database is created, but we won't actually insert data:

The "control"

Running the code as-is doesn't actually perform any database operations, but it will give us an idea of how fast the raw C file I/O and string processing operations are.

Imported 864913 records in 0.94 seconds

Great! We can do 920,000 inserts per second, provided we don't actually do any inserts :-)

The "worst-case-scenario"

We're going to generate the SQL string using the values read from the file and invoke that SQL operation using :

This is going to be slow because the SQL will be compiled into VDBE code for every insert and every insert will happen in its own transaction. How slow?

Imported 864913 records in 9933.61
seconds

Yikes! 2 hours and 45 minutes! That's only 85 inserts per second.
Using a transaction

By default, SQLite will evaluate every / statement within a unique transaction. If performing a large number of inserts, it's advisable to wrap your operation in a transaction:

Imported 864913 records in 38.03 seconds

That's better. Simply wrapping all of our inserts in a single transaction improved our performance to 23,000 inserts per second.
Using a prepared statement

Using a transaction was a huge improvement, but recompiling the SQL statement for every insert doesn't make sense if we using the same SQL over-and-over. Let's use  to compile our SQL statement once and then bind our parameters to that statement using :

Imported 864913 records in 16.27 seconds

Nice! There's a little bit more code (don't forget to call  and ), but we've more than doubled our performance to 53,000 inserts per second.

By default, SQLite will pause after issuing a OS-level write command. This guarantees that the data is written to the disk. By setting , we are instructing SQLite to simply hand-off the data to the OS for writing and then continue. There's a chance that the database file may become corrupted if the computer suffers a catastrophic crash (or power failure) before the data is written to the platter:

Imported 864913 records in 12.41 seconds

The improvements are now smaller, but we're up to 69,600 inserts per second.

Consider storing the rollback journal in memory by evaluating . Your transaction will be faster, but if you lose power or your program crashes during a transaction you database could be left in a corrupt state with a partially-completed transaction:

Imported 864913 records in 13.50 seconds

A little slower than the previous optimization at 64,000 inserts per second.
 and 

Let's combine the previous two optimizations. It's a little more risky (in case of a crash), but we're just importing data (not running a bank):

Imported 864913 records in 12.00 seconds

Fantastic! We're able to do 72,000 inserts per second.
Using an in-memory database

Just for kicks, let's build upon all of the previous optimizations and redefine the database filename so we're working entirely in RAM:

Imported 864913 records in 10.94 seconds

It's not super-practical to store our database in RAM, but it's impressive that we can perform 79,000 inserts per second.
Refactoring C code

Although not specifically an SQLite improvement, I don't like the extra  assignment operations in the  loop. Let's quickly refactor that code to pass the output of  directly into , and let the compiler try to speed things up for us:

Note: We are back to using a real database file. In-memory databases are fast, but not necessarily practical

Imported 864913 records in 8.94 seconds

A slight refactoring to the string processing code used in our parameter binding has allowed us to perform 96,700 inserts per second. I think it's safe to say that this is plenty fast. As we start to tweak other variables (i.e. page size, index creation, etc.) this will be our benchmark.

Summary (so far)

I hope you're still with me! The reason we started down this road is that bulk-insert performance varies so wildly with SQLite, and it's not always obvious what changes need to be made to speed-up our operation. Using the same compiler (and compiler options), the same version of SQLite and the same data we've optimized our code and our usage of SQLite to go from a worst-case scenario of 85 inserts per second to over 96,000 inserts per second!

 then  vs.  then 

Before we start measuring the  performance, we know that we'll be creating indices. It's been suggested in one of the answers below that when doing bulk inserts, it is faster to create the index after the data has been inserted (as opposed to creating the index first then inserting the data). Let's try:

- 

Create index, then insert data:

Imported 864913 records in 18.13 seconds

- 

Insert data, then create index:

Imported 864913 records in 13.66 seconds

As expected, bulk-inserts are slower if one column is indexed, but it does make a difference if the index is created after the data is inserted. Our no-index baseline is 96,000 inserts per second. Creating the index first then inserting data gives us 47,700 inserts per second, whereas inserting the data first then creating the index gives us 63,300 inserts per second.

I'd gladly take suggestions for other scenarios to try... And will be compiling similar data for  queries soon.

Q: Initialization of an ArrayList in one line

I wanted to create a list of options for testing purposes. At first, I did this:

Then, I refactored the code as follows:

Is there a better way to do this?

Q: How do I sort a dictionary by value?

I have a dictionary of values read from two fields in a database: a string field and a numeric field. The string field is unique, so that is the key of the dictionary.

I can sort on the keys, but how can I sort based on the values?

Note: I have read Stack Overflow question here How do I sort a list of dictionaries by a value of the dictionary? and probably could change my code to have a list of dictionaries, but since I do not really need a list of dictionaries I wanted to know if there is a simpler solution to sort either in ascending or descending order.

Q: How do I iterate over the words of a string?

How do I iterate over the words of a string composed of words separated by whitespace?

Note that I'm not interested in C string functions or that kind of character manipulation/access. I prefer elegance over efficiency. My current solution:

Q: How do I modify a specific commit?

I have the following commit history:

- 

- 

- 

- 

 modifies the current  commit. But how do I modify ?

Q: How can I merge properties of two JavaScript objects?

I need to be able to merge two (very simple) JavaScript objects at runtime. For example I'd like to:

Is there a built in way to do this? I do not need recursion, and I do not need to merge functions, just methods on flat objects.

Q: How do I clone a list so that it doesn't change unexpectedly after assignment?

While using , any modifications to  changes  every time. Why is this, and how can I clone or copy the list to prevent it? For example:

Q: Why does my JavaScript code receive a "No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource" error, while Postman does not?

Mod note: This question is about why //etc. on the browser are subject to the Same Access Policy restrictions (you get errors mentioning CORB or CORS) while Postman is not. This question is not about how to fix a "No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin'..." error. It's about why they happen.

Please stop posting:

- CORS configurations for every language/framework under the sun. Instead find your relevant language/framework's question.

- 3rd party services that allow a request to circumvent CORS

- Command line options for turning off CORS for various browsers

I am trying to do authorization using JavaScript by connecting to the RESTful API built-in Flask. However, when I make the request, I get the following error:

I know that the API or remote resource must set the header, but why did it work when I made the request via the Chrome extension Postman?

This is the request code:

A: Example:

With Git 1.7.10 and later, add  to prevent fetching of all branches. Example, with OpenCV 2.4 branch:

A: Use the  operator:

Note: This is case-sensitive.

A: You can use a for…in loop with an  (ECMA 2022+) test to check whether an object has any own properties:

If you also need to distinguish -like empty objects from other objects with no own properties (e.g. s), you can do various (and unfortunately need-specific) type checks:

Note that comparing against  like in this example will fail to recognize cross-realm objects.

Do not use . It is O(N) complexity because it creates an array containing all the property names only to get the length of that array. Iterating over the object accomplishes the same goal but is O(1).

For compatibility with JavaScript engines that don’t support ES 2022+,  can be replaced with  and  with :

Many popular libraries also provide functions to check for empty objects:

jQuery:

lodash:

Underscore:

Hoek:

ExtJS:

AngularJS (version 1):

Ramda:

A: Python 3.7+ or CPython 3.6

Dicts preserve insertion order in Python 3.7+. Same in CPython 3.6, but it's an implementation detail.

or

Older Python

It is not possible to sort a dictionary, only to get a representation of a dictionary that is sorted. Dictionaries are inherently orderless, but other types, such as lists and tuples, are not. So you need an ordered data type to represent sorted values, which will be a list—probably a list of tuples.

For instance,

 will be a list of tuples sorted by the second element in each tuple. .

And for those wishing to sort on keys instead of values:

In Python3 since unpacking is not allowed we can use

If you want the output as a dict, you can use :

A: Pretty-printing is implemented natively in . The third argument enables pretty printing and sets the spacing to use:

If you need syntax highlighting, you might use some regex magic like so:

See in action here: jsfiddle

Or a full snippet provided below:

A: To select rows whose column value equals a scalar, , use :

To select rows whose column value is in an iterable, , use :

Combine multiple conditions with :

Note the parentheses. Due to Python's operator precedence rules,  binds more tightly than  and . Thus, the parentheses in the last example are necessary. Without the parentheses

is parsed as

which results in a Truth value of a Series is ambiguous error.

To select rows whose column value does not equal , use :

The  returns a boolean Series, so to select rows whose value is not in , negate the boolean Series using :

For example,

yields

If you have multiple values you want to include, put them in a
list (or more generally, any iterable) and use :

yields

Note, however, that if you wish to do this many times, it is more efficient to
make an index first, and then use :

yields

or, to include multiple values from the index use :

yields

A: returns everything inside a directory -- including both files and directories.

's  can be used to only list files:

Alternatively,  yields two lists for each directory it visits -- one for files and one for dirs. If you only want the top directory you can break the first time it yields:

or, shorter:

A: The official tutorial may be of some use to you.

Class
Package
Subclass
(same pkg)
Subclass
(diff pkg)
World

✅
✅
✅
✅
✅

✅
✅
✅
✅
❌

no modifier
✅
✅
✅
❌
❌

✅
❌
❌
❌
❌

✅: accessible

❌: not accessible

A: By not including the trailing '/' at the end of foo, you will copy the directory itself (including contents), rather than only the contents of the directory.

From  (See online manual)

-r Recursively copy entire directories

A: Beginner
Introductory, no previous programming experience

Book
Author(s)
Description
review

C++ Primer* 

* Not to be confused with C++ Primer Plus (Stephen Prata), with a significantly less favorable review.
Stanley Lippman, Josée Lajoie, and Barbara E. Moo  (updated for C++11)
Coming at 1k pages, this is a very thorough introduction into C++ that covers just about everything in the language in a very accessible format and in great detail. The fifth edition (released August 16, 2012) covers C++11.
[Review]

Programming: Principles and Practice Using C++
Bjarne Stroustrup, 3rd Edition - April 22, 2024 (updated for C++20/C++23)
An introduction to programming using C++ by the creator of the language. A good read, that assumes no previous programming experience, but is not only for beginners.

Introductory, with previous programming experience

Book
Author(s)
Description
review

A Tour of C++
Bjarne Stroustrup (2nd edition for C++17, 3rd edition for C++20)
The “tour” is a quick (about 180 pages and 14 chapters) tutorial overview of all of standard C++ (language and standard library, and using C++11) at a moderately high level for people who already know C++ or at least are experienced programmers. This book is an extended version of the material that constitutes Chapters 2-5 of The C++ Programming Language, 4th edition.

Accelerated C++
Andrew Koenig and Barbara Moo, 1st Edition - August 24, 2000
This basically covers the same ground as the C++ Primer, but does so in a quarter of its space. This is largely because it does not attempt to be an introduction to programming, but an introduction to C++ for people who've previously programmed in some other language. It has a steeper learning curve, but, for those who can cope with this, it is a very compact introduction to the language. (Historically, it broke new ground by being the first beginner's book to use a modern approach to teaching the language.) Despite this, the C++ it teaches is purely C++98.
[Review]

Best practices

Book
Author(s)
Description
review

Effective C++
Scott Meyers, 3rd Edition - May 22, 2005
This was written with the aim of being the best second book C++ programmers should read, and it succeeded. Earlier editions were aimed at programmers coming from C, the third edition changes this and targets programmers coming from languages like Java. It presents ~50 easy-to-remember rules of thumb along with their rationale in a very accessible (and enjoyable) style. For C++11 and C++14 the examples and a few issues are outdated and Effective Modern C++ should be preferred.
[Review]

Effective Modern C++
Scott Meyers
This book is aimed at C++ programmers making the transition from C++03 to C++11 and C++14. This book can be treated as a continuation and "correction" of some parts of the previous book - "Effective C++". They don't cover the same things, but keep similar item-based themes.
[Review]

Effective STL
Scott Meyers
This aims to do the same to the part of the standard library coming from the STL what Effective C++ did to the language as a whole: It presents rules of thumb along with their rationale.

Intermediate

Book
Author(s)
Description
review

More Effective C++
Scott Meyers
Even more rules of thumb than Effective C++. Not as important as the ones in the first book, but still good to know.

Exceptional C++
Herb Sutter
Presented as a set of puzzles, this has one of the best and thorough discussions of the proper resource management and exception safety in C++ through Resource Acquisition is Initialization (RAII) in addition to in-depth coverage of a variety of other topics including the pimpl idiom, name lookup, good class design, and the C++ memory model.
[Review]

More Exceptional C++
Herb Sutter
Covers additional exception safety topics not covered in Exceptional C++, in addition to discussion of effective object-oriented programming in C++ and correct use of the STL.
[Review]

Exceptional C++ Style
Herb Sutter
Discusses generic programming, optimization, and resource management; this book also has an excellent exposition of how to write modular code in C++ by using non-member functions and the single responsibility principle.
[Review]

C++ Coding Standards
Herb Sutter and Andrei Alexandrescu
“Coding standards” here doesn't mean “how many spaces should I indent my code?”  This book contains 101 best practices, idioms, and common pitfalls that can help you to write correct, understandable, and efficient C++ code.
[Review]

C++ Templates: The Complete Guide
David Vandevoorde and Nicolai M. Josuttis
This is the book about templates as they existed before C++11.  It covers everything from the very basics to some of the most advanced template metaprogramming and explains every detail of how templates work (both conceptually and at how they are implemented) and discusses many common pitfalls.  Has excellent summaries of the One Definition Rule (ODR) and overload resolution in the appendices. A second edition covering C++11, C++14 and C++17 has been already published.
[Review]

C++ 17 - The Complete Guide
Nicolai M. Josuttis
This book describes all the new features introduced in the C++17 Standard covering everything from the simple ones like 'Inline Variables', 'constexpr if' all the way up to 'Polymorphic Memory Resources' and 'New and Delete with over aligned Data'.
[Review]

C++ 20 - The Complete Guide
Nicolai M. Josuttis
This book presents all the new language and library features of C++20. It covers the motivation and context of each new feature with examples and background information. The focus is on how these features impact day-to-day programming, what it means to combine them, and how to benefit from C++20 in practice. (Note that this book was published step-by-step, and the first edition is now complete.)

C++ in Action
Bartosz Milewski
This book explains C++ and its features by building an application from the ground up.
[Review]

Functional Programming in C++
Ivan Čukić
This book introduces functional programming techniques to modern C++ (C++11 and later). A very nice read for those who want to apply functional programming paradigms to C++.
[Review]

Advanced

Book
Author(s)
Description
review

Modern C++ Design
Andrei Alexandrescu
A groundbreaking book on advanced generic programming techniques.  Introduces policy-based design, type lists, and fundamental generic programming idioms then explains how many useful design patterns (including small object allocators, functors, factories, visitors, and multi-methods) can be implemented efficiently, modularly, and cleanly using generic programming.
[Review]

C++ Template Metaprogramming
David Abrahams and Aleksey Gurtovoy

C++ Concurrency In Action
Anthony Williams
A book covering C++11 concurrency support including the thread library, the atomics library, the C++ memory model, locks and mutexes, as well as issues of designing and debugging multithreaded applications. A second edition covering C++14 and C++17 has already been published.
[Review]

Advanced C++ Metaprogramming
Davide Di Gennaro
A pre-C++11 manual of TMP techniques, focused more on practice than theory.  There are a ton of snippets in this book, some of which are made obsolete by type traits, but the techniques, are nonetheless useful to know.  If you can put up with the quirky formatting/editing, it is easier to read than Alexandrescu, and arguably, more rewarding.  For more experienced developers, there is a good chance that you may pick up something about a dark corner of C++ (a quirk) that usually only comes about through extensive experience.

Large Scale C++ volume I, Process and architecture (2020)
John Lakos
Part one of a three-part series extending the older book 'Large Scale C++ Design'. Lakos explains battle-tested techniques to manage very big C++ software projects. If you work in a big C++ software project this is a great read, detailing the relationship between physical and logical structure, strategies for components, and their reuse.
[Review]

C++ Software Design
Klaus Iglberger, 1st Edition - December 8, 2023
Frames software design as the art of managing dependencies and abstractions, a challenging task. Intentionally favors teaching idiomatic C++, avoiding distraction by mere language features. Each chapter contains several guidelines, the main takeaways of the book, which are all loosely coupled yet interdependent. As with his talks, Klaus' writing flows nicely, is easy to read.
[Review]

Reference Style - All Levels

Book
Author(s)
Description
review

The C++ Programming Language
Bjarne Stroustrup (updated for C++11)
The classic introduction to C++ by its creator. Written to parallel the classic K&R, this indeed reads very much like it and covers just about everything from the core language to the standard library, to programming paradigms to the language's philosophy.
[Review] 
Note: All releases of the C++ standard are tracked in the question "Where do I find the current C or C++ standard documents?".

C++ Standard Library Tutorial and Reference
Nicolai Josuttis (updated for C++11)
The introduction and reference for the C++ Standard Library. The second edition (released on April 9, 2012) covers C++11.
[Review]

The C++ IO Streams and Locales
Angelika Langer and Klaus Kreft
There's very little to say about this book except that if you want to know anything about streams and locales, then this is the one place to find definitive answers.
[Review]

C++11/14/17/… References:

- 

Working Draft, Standard for Programming Language C++ generated from  LaTeX sources published on GitHub.

- 

C++ Standard Papers, latest standard working draft: ISO working draft

- 

The C++11/14/17 Standard (INCITS/ISO/IEC 14882:2011/2014/2017) This, of course, is the final arbiter of all that is or isn't C++. Be aware, however, that it is intended purely as a reference for experienced users willing to devote considerable time and effort to its understanding. The C++17 standard is released in electronic form for 198 Swiss Francs.

- 

The C++17 standard is available, but seemingly not in an economical form – directly from the ISO it costs 198 Swiss Francs (about $200 US). For most people, the final draft before standardization is more than adequate (and free). Many will prefer an even newer draft, documenting new features that are likely to be included in C++20.

- 

C++20 draft is available on GitHub as some older too.

- 

Overview of the New C++ (C++11/14) (PDF only) (Scott Meyers) (updated for C++14) These are the presentation materials (slides and some lecture notes) of a three-day training course offered by Scott Meyers, who's a highly respected author on C++. Even though the list of items is short, the quality is high.

- 

The C++ Core Guidelines (C++11/14/17/…) (edited by Bjarne Stroustrup and Herb Sutter) is an evolving online document consisting of a set of guidelines for using modern C++ well. The guidelines are focused on relatively higher-level issues, such as interfaces, resource management, memory management, and concurrency affecting application architecture and library design. The project was announced at CppCon'15 by Bjarne Stroustrup and others and welcomes contributions from the community. Most guidelines are supplemented with a rationale and examples as well as discussions of possible tool support. Many rules are designed specifically to be automatically checkable by static analysis tools.

- 

The C++ Super-FAQ (Marshall Cline, Bjarne Stroustrup, and others) is an effort by the Standard C++ Foundation to unify the C++ FAQs previously maintained individually by Marshall Cline and Bjarne Stroustrup and also incorporating new contributions. The items mostly address issues at an intermediate level and are often written with a humorous tone. Not all items might be fully up to date with the latest edition of the C++ standard yet.

- 

cppreference.com (C++03/11/14/17/…) (initiated by Nate Kohl) is a wiki that summarizes the basic core-language features and has extensive documentation of the C++ standard library. The documentation is very precise but is easier to read than the official standard document and provides better navigation due to its wiki nature. The project documents all versions of the C++ standard and the site allows filtering the display for a specific version. The project was presented by Nate Kohl at CppCon'14.

Classics / Older

Note: Some information contained within these books may not be up-to-date or no longer considered best practice.

- 

The Design and Evolution of C++ (Bjarne Stroustrup)  If you want to know why the language is the way it is, this book is where you find answers. This covers everything before the standardization of C++.

- 

Ruminations on C++ - (Andrew Koenig and Barbara Moo) [Review]

- 

Advanced C++ Programming Styles and Idioms (James Coplien)  A predecessor of the pattern movement, it describes many C++-specific “idioms”. It's certainly a very good book and might still be worth a read if you can spare the time, but quite old and not up-to-date with current C++.

- 

Large Scale C++ Software Design (John Lakos)  Lakos explains techniques to manage very big C++ software projects. Certainly, a good read, if it only was up to date. It was written long before C++ 98 and misses on many features (e.g. namespaces) important for large-scale projects. If you need to work on a big C++ software project, you might want to read it, although you need to take more than a grain of salt with it. Not to be confused with the extended and later book series Large Scale C++ volume I-III.

- 

Inside the C++ Object Model (Stanley Lippman)  If you want to know how virtual member functions are commonly implemented and how base objects are commonly laid out in memory in a multi-inheritance scenario, and how all this affects performance, this is where you will find thorough discussions of such topics.

- 

The Annotated C++ Reference Manual (Bjarne Stroustrup, Margaret A. Ellis) This book is quite outdated in the fact that it explores the 1989 C++ 2.0 version - Templates, exceptions, namespaces, and new casts were not yet introduced. Saying that however, this book goes through the entire C++ standard of the time explaining the rationale, the possible implementations, and features of the language. This is not a book to learn programming principles and patterns on C++, but to understand every aspect of the C++ language.

- 

Thinking in C++ (Bruce Eckel, 2nd Edition, 2000).  Two volumes; is a tutorial-style free set of intro-level books. Downloads: vol 1, vol 2. Unfortunately, they're marred by a number of trivial errors (e.g. maintaining that temporaries are automatic ), with no official errata list. A partial 3rd party errata list is available at http://www.computersciencelab.com/Eckel.htm, but it is apparently not maintained.

- 

Scientific and Engineering C++: An Introduction to Advanced Techniques and Examples (John Barton and Lee Nackman)
It is a comprehensive and very detailed book that tried to explain and make use of all the features available in C++, in the context of numerical methods. It introduced at the time several new techniques, such as the Curiously Recurring Template Pattern (CRTP, also called Barton-Nackman trick).
It pioneered several techniques such as dimensional analysis and automatic differentiation.
It came with a lot of compilable and useful code, ranging from an expression parser to a Lapack wrapper.
The code is still available online.
Unfortunately, the books have become somewhat outdated in style and C++ features, however, it was an incredible tour-de-force at the time (1994, pre-STL).
The chapters on dynamics inheritance are a bit complicated to understand and not very useful.
An updated version of this classic book that includes move semantics and the lessons learned from the STL would be very nice.

A: Maybe you just need to commit. I ran into this when I did:

Oops! Never committed!

All I had to do was:

Success!

A: To push a single tag:

And the following command should push all tags (not recommended):

A: On Java 10+:

A: You need to set your content-type to application/json. But  (or ) sends the Content-Type  by default, which is not accepted on Spring's side.

Looking at the curl man page, I think you can use  (or ):

Full example:

( is short for ,  for )

Note that  is optional if you use , as the  flag implies a POST request.

On Windows, things are slightly different. See the comment thread.

A: Decode the  object to produce a string:

The above example assumes that the  object is in UTF-8, because it is a common encoding. However, you should use the encoding your data is actually in!

A: It's easy enough to write your own comparison function:

Or inline (c/o Marco Demaio):

Or simplified for numeric (c/o Andre Figueiredo):

A: 2017 — 2021 update

Since 2009 when this question was asked, JavaScript has evolved significantly. All other answers are now obsolete or overly complicated. Here is the current best practice:

Or as a one-liner:

As a function:

or in Typescript:

use it as:

Demo:







Note that,

-  can only be executed in functions prefixed with the  keyword, or at the top level of your script in an increasing number of environments.

-  only pauses the current  function. This means it does not block the execution of the rest of the script, which is what you want in the vast majority of the cases. If you do want a blocking construct, see this answer using , but note that most browsers will not allow it on the browser's main thread.

Two new JavaScript features (as of 2017) helped write this "sleep" function:

- Promises, a native feature of ES2015 (aka ES6). We also use arrow functions in the definition of the sleep function.

- The  feature lets the code explicitly wait for a promise to settle (resolve or reject).

Compatibility

- promises are supported in Node v0.12+ and widely supported in browsers, except IE

- / landed in V8 and has been enabled by default since Chrome 55 (released in Dec 2016)

- it landed in Node 7 in October 2016

- and also landed in Firefox Nightly in November 2016

If for some reason you're using Node older than 7 (which reached end of life in 2017), or are targeting old browsers, / can still be used via Babel (a tool that will transpile JavaScript + new features into plain old JavaScript), with the  plugin.

A: The  documentation states:

When  is given, the staged content has to match either the tip of the branch or the file on disk, allowing the file to be removed from just the index.

So, for a single file:

and for a single directory:

A: To display only the name of the current branch you're on:

Reference: Show just the current branch in Git

A: The  command (written as  here) has a "not" logical operator,  (exclamation mark):

A: Checking for undefined-ness is not an accurate way of testing whether a key exists. What if the key exists but the value is actually ?







You should instead use the  operator:







If you want to check if a key doesn't exist, remember to use parenthesis:







Or, if you want to particularly test for properties of the object instance (and not inherited properties), use :







For performance comparison between the methods that are ,  and key is , see this benchmark:

A: Use  :

Or to be more specific and to ensure things like 1.005 round correctly, use Number.EPSILON  :

A: is a generator which yields both the index and row (as a Series):

Obligatory disclaimer from the documentation

Iterating through pandas objects is generally slow. In many cases, iterating manually over the rows is not needed and can be avoided with one of the following approaches:

- Look for a vectorized solution: many operations can be performed using built-in methods or NumPy functions, (boolean) indexing, …

- When you have a function that cannot work on the full DataFrame/Series at once, it is better to use  instead of iterating over the values. See the docs on function application.

- If you need to do iterative manipulations on the values but performance is important, consider writing the inner loop with Cython or Numba. See the enhancing performance section for some examples of this approach.

Other answers to this question delve into greater depth on alternatives to iter* functions if you are interested to learn more.

A: If you're only interested in the keys, you can iterate through the  of the map:

If you only need the values, use :

Finally, if you want both the key and value, use :

One caveat: if you want to remove items mid-iteration, you'll need to do so via an Iterator (see karim79's answer). However, changing item values is OK (see ).

A: For BSD or GNU  you can use  to set how many lines before the match and  for the number of lines after the match.

If you want the same number of lines before and after you can use .

This will show 3 lines before and 3 lines after.

A: Three main options:

- 

- 

- 

Detailed examples are below.

1. Sequential  loop:







Pros

- Works on every environment

- You can use  and  flow control statements

Cons

- Too verbose

- Imperative

- Easy to have off-by-one errors (sometimes also called a fence post error)

2. :

The ES5 specification introduced a lot of beneficial array methods. One of them, the , gave us a concise way to iterate over an array:







Being almost ten years as the time of writing that the ES5 specification was released (Dec. 2009), it has been implemented by nearly all modern engines in the desktop, server, and mobile environments, so it's safe to use them.

And with the ES6 arrow function syntax, it's even more succinct:

Arrow functions are also widely implemented unless you plan to support ancient platforms (e.g., Internet Explorer 11); you are also safe to go.

Pros

- Very short and succinct.

- Declarative

Cons

- Cannot use  / 

Normally, you can replace the need to  out of imperative loops by filtering the array elements before iterating them, for example:

Keep in mind if you are iterating an array to build another array from it, you should use . I've seen this anti-pattern so many times.

Anti-pattern:

Proper use case of map:







Also, if you are trying to reduce the array to a value, for example, you want to sum an array of numbers, you should use the reduce method.

Anti-pattern:

Proper use of reduce:







3. ES6  statement:

The ES6 standard introduces the concept of iterable objects and defines a new construct for traversing data, the  statement.

This statement works for any kind of iterable object and also for generators (any object that has a  property).

Array objects are by definition built-in iterables in ES6, so you can use this statement on them:

Pros

- It can iterate over a large variety of objects.

- Can use normal flow control statements ( / ).

- Useful to iterate serially asynchronous values.

Cons

- If you are targeting older browsers, the transpiled output might surprise you.

Do not use 

@zipcodeman suggests the use of the  statement, but for iterating arrays  should be avoided, that statement is meant to enumerate object properties.

It shouldn't be used for array-like objects because:

- The order of iteration is not guaranteed; the array indexes may not be visited in numeric order.

- Inherited properties are also enumerated.

The second point is that it can give you a lot of problems, for example, if you extend the  object to include a method there, that property will also be enumerated.

For example:







The above code will console log "a", "b", "c", and "foo!".

That can be particularly a problem if you use some library that relies heavily on native prototypes augmentation (such as MooTools).

The  statement, as I said before, is there to enumerate object properties, for example:







In the above example, the  method allows you to enumerate only own properties. That's it, only the properties that the object physically has, no inherited properties.

I would recommend you to read the following article:

- Enumeration VS Iteration

A: You can use a global variable within other functions by declaring it as  within each function that assigns a value to it:

Since it's unclear whether  is creating a local variable or changing a global variable, Python defaults to creating a local variable, and makes you explicitly choose the other behavior with the  keyword.

See other answers if you want to share a global variable across modules.

A: From Python Documentation:

  

An except clause may name multiple exceptions as a parenthesized tuple, for example

Or, for Python 2 only:

Separating the exception from the variable with a comma will still work in Python 2.6 and 2.7, but is now deprecated and does not work in Python 3; now you should be using .

A: A clear explanation from Daniel Irvine [original link]:

There's a problem with 401 Unauthorized, the HTTP status code for authentication errors. And that’s just it: it’s for authentication, not authorization.
Receiving a 401 response is the server telling you, “you aren’t
authenticated–either not authenticated at all or authenticated
incorrectly–but please reauthenticate and try again.” To help you out,
it will always include a WWW-Authenticate header that describes how
to authenticate.

This is a response generally returned by your web server, not your web
application.

It’s also something very temporary; the server is asking you to try
again.

So, for authorization I use the 403 Forbidden response. It’s
permanent, it’s tied to my application logic, and it’s a more concrete
response than a 401.

Receiving a 403 response is the server telling you, “I’m sorry. I know
who you are–I believe who you say you are–but you just don’t have
permission to access this resource. Maybe if you ask the system
administrator nicely, you’ll get permission. But please don’t bother
me again until your predicament changes.”

In summary, a 401 Unauthorized response should be used for missing
or bad authentication, and a 403 Forbidden response should be used
afterwards, when the user is authenticated but isn’t authorized to
perform the requested operation on the given resource.

Another nice pictorial format of how http status codes should be used.

A: With Python 2.6+ or 3 you can use the json.tool module:

or, if the JSON is in a file, you can do:

if the JSON is from an internet source such as an API, you can use

For convenience in all of these cases you can make an alias:

For even more convenience with a bit more typing to get it ready:

for all the above cases. You can put this in  and it will be available every time in shell. Invoke it like .

Note that as @pnd pointed out in the comments below, in Python 3.5+ the JSON object is no longer sorted by default. To sort, add the  flag to the end. I.e. .

Another useful option might be  which disables escaping of non-ASCII characters (new in version 3.9).

A: You can use the  loop as shown by others. However, you also have to make sure that the key you get is an actual property of an object, and doesn't come from the prototype.

Here is the snippet:






For-of with Object.keys() alternative:







Notice the use of  instead of , if not used it will return undefined on named properties, and  ensures the use of only the object's own properties without the whole prototype-chain properties

Using the new  method:

Note: This method is not supported natively by Internet Explorer. You may consider using a Polyfill for older browsers.

A: You can use the following instruction:

A: Empty string, undefined, null, ...

To check for a truthy value:

To check for a falsy value:

Empty string (only!)

To check for exactly an empty string, compare for strict equality against  using the  operator:

To check for not an empty string strictly, use the  operator:

A: You can use:

or for short:

Git will break down your file into what it thinks are sensible "hunks" (portions of the file). It will then prompt you with this question:

Here is a description of each option:

- y stage this hunk for the next commit

- n do not stage this hunk for the next commit

- q quit; do not stage this hunk or any of the remaining hunks

- a stage this hunk and all later hunks in the file

- d do not stage this hunk or any of the later hunks in the file

- g select a hunk to go to

- / search for a hunk matching the given regex

- j leave this hunk undecided, see next undecided hunk

- J leave this hunk undecided, see next hunk

- k leave this hunk undecided, see previous undecided hunk

- K leave this hunk undecided, see previous hunk

- s split the current hunk into smaller hunks

- e manually edit the current hunk

- You can then edit the hunk manually by replacing / by  (thanks veksen)

- ? print hunk help

If the file is not in the repository yet, you can first do . Afterwards you can go on with .

Afterwards, you can use:

-  to check that you staged the correct changes

-  to unstage mistakenly added hunks

-  to view your commit while you edit the commit message.

Note this is far different than the  command, whose purpose is to parse commit data into a  files.

Reference for future: Git Tools - Interactive Staging

A: Do:

Use the strict equality operator (), which doesn't make any implicit type conversions when the compared variables have different types.

This will set  to a boolean  if the string is "true" and boolean  if it is string "false" or not set at all.

For making it case-insensitive, try:

Don't:

You should be cautious about using these two methods for your specific needs.

Any string which isn't the empty string will evaluate to  by using them. Although they're the cleanest methods I can think of concerning to boolean conversion, I think they're not what you're looking for.

A: The problem is that Xcode Command-line Tools needs to be updated due to a MacOs update.

- Did not run into this on Sonoma.

- Maybe Apple fixed the process?

- Updated for Ventura

After opening the terminal after restarting, I tried to go to my code, and do a , and I got an error and prompt for command line software agreement:

So press space until you get to the  option, so careful hit space to scroll down to the end, if you blow past It you have to run a command to get it back. Use  to get to it again.

Just be careful on scrolling down and enter  and press return and it will launch into an update.

Then I tried to use git after the install, and it prompted me to install Xcode tools again.

I followed my own advice from previous years (see below), and went to https://developer.apple.com/download/all and downloaded
"Command Line Tools for Xcode 14" (You have to log in with your Apple ID and enter MFA code, so have all the devices you need for that handy. Then select "Command Line Tools for Xcode 14", or if you want to get into the alphas or betas, that's up to you. But stable releases are probably the best choice for software developers.

You have to either download the tools from CLI or the developer page and before you can use git, you need to reboot!!! Or you will get stuck in a loop of prompt & downloading

Rebooting will break the loop and complete the installation of your CLI tools including git so that you can get back to work

Solutions for previous years, these may or may not be valid these days as the downloads page has changed significantly:

PREVIOUS YEARS SOLUTIONS, probably #2 is most helpful.

*** Solution #1:

Go back to your terminal and enter:

You'll then receive the following output:

You will then be prompted in a window to update Xcode Command Line tools. (which could take a while)

Open a new terminal window and your development tools should be returned.

Addition: With any major or semi-major update you'll need to update the command line tools in order to get them functioning properly again. Check Xcode with any update. This goes beyond Mojave...

After that restart your terminal

Alternatively, IF that fails, and it might.... you'll get a pop-up box saying "Software not found on server", proceed to solution 2.

*** Solution #2: (Preferred method)

If you hit  and it doesn't find the software, log into Apple Developer, and install it via webpage.

Log in or sign up here:

https://developer.apple.com/download/more/

Look for: "Command Line Tools for Xcode 14.x" in the list of downloads
Then click the dmg and download. (See previous image above) either way, you will probably wind up at an apple downloads webpage.

A: Use one of these methods:

- 

 removes a file or symbolic link.

- 

 removes an empty directory.

- 

 deletes a directory and all its contents.

On Python 3.3 and below, you can use these methods instead of the  ones:

- 

 removes a file.

- 

 removes a symbolic link.

- 

 removes an empty directory.

A: You can use Marcus's answer (* wildcards) outside a case statement, too, if you use double brackets:

Note that spaces in the needle string need to be placed between double quotes, and the  wildcards should be outside. Also note that a simple comparison operator is used (i.e. ), not the regex operator .

A: Preferred Way (because it's a plumbing command; meant to be programmatic):

Another Way (less preferred for scripts, because it's a porcelain command; meant to be user-facing)

- The  suppresses the commit ID output.

- The  argument specifies an empty format string to avoid the cruft at the beginning.

- The  argument shows only the file names that were affected (Thanks Hank). Use  instead, if you want to see what happened to each file (Deleted, Modified, Added)

- The  argument is to recurse into sub-trees

A: Given a branch  and a remote :

As of Git 1.8.0:

Or, if local branch  is not the current branch:

Or, if you like to type longer commands, these are equivalent to the above two:

As of Git 1.7.0 (before 1.8.0):

Notes:

- All of the above commands will cause local branch  to track remote branch  from remote .

- The old (1.7.x) syntax is deprecated in favor of the new (1.8+) syntax.  The new syntax is intended to be more intuitive and easier to remember.

- Defining an upstream branch will fail when run against newly-created remotes that have not already been fetched. In that case, run  beforehand.

See also: Why do I need to do `--set-upstream` all the time?

A: This answer only applies to Git version 1.x. For Git version 2.x, see other answers.

Summary:

- 

 stages all changes

- 

 stages new files and modifications, without deletions (on the current directory and its subdirectories).

- 

 stages modifications and deletions, without new files

Detail:

 is equivalent to  .

The important point about  is that it looks at the working tree and adds all those paths to the staged changes if they are either changed or are new and not ignored, it does not stage any 'rm' actions.

 looks at all the already tracked files and stages the changes to those files if they are different or if they have been removed. It does not add any new files, it only stages changes to already tracked files.

 is a handy shortcut for doing both of those.

You can test the differences out with something like this (note that for Git version 2.x your output for   will be different):

A: If you are using Docker-for-mac or Docker-for-Windows 18.03+, connect to your MySQL service using the host  (instead of the  in your connection string).

If you are using Docker-for-Linux 20.10.0+, you can also use the host  if you started your Docker container with the  option, or added the following snippet in your docker-compose.yml file:

Otherwise, read below

TLDR

Use  in your  command, then  in your Docker container will point to your Docker host.

Note: This mode only works on Docker for Linux, per the documentation.

Note on Docker container networking modes

Docker offers different networking modes when running containers. Depending on the mode you choose you would connect to your MySQL database running on the Docker host differently.
docker run --network="bridge" (default)

Docker creates a bridge named  by default. Both the Docker host and the Docker containers have an IP address on that bridge.

On the Docker host, type  you will have an output looking like:

So here my Docker host has the IP address  on the  network interface.

Now start a new container and get a shell on it:  and within the container type  to discover how its main network interface is set up:

Here my container has the IP address . Now look at the routing table:

So the IP address of the Docker host  is set as the default route and is accessible from your container.

docker run --network="host"

Alternatively you can run a Docker container with network settings set to . Such a container will share the network stack with the Docker host and from the container point of view,  (or ) will refer to the Docker host.

Be aware that any port opened in your Docker container would be opened on the Docker host. And this without requiring the  or   option.

IP configuration on my Docker host:

And from a Docker container in host mode:

As you can see, both the Docker host and Docker container share the exact same network interface and as such have the same IP address.

Connecting to MySQL from containers
Bridge mode

To access MySQL running on the Docker host from containers in bridge mode, you need to make sure the MySQL service is listening for connections on the  IP address.

To do so, make sure you have either  or  in your MySQL configuration file (my.cnf).

If you need to set an environment variable with the IP address of the gateway, you can run the following code in a container:

Then in your application, use the  environment variable to open the connection to MySQL.

Note: if you use , your MySQL server will listen for connections on all network interfaces. That means your MySQL server could be reached from the Internet; make sure to set up firewall rules accordingly.

Note 2: if you use  your MySQL server won't listen for connections made to . Processes running on the Docker host that would want to connect to MySQL would have to use the  IP address.
Host mode

To access MySQL running on the docker host from containers in host mode, you can keep  in your MySQL configuration and connect to  from your containers:

Note: Do use  and not ; otherwise the MySQL client would try to connect using a Unix socket.

A: In general to concatenate two variables you can just write them one after another:

A: has many methods you can use. One of which is:

- Copy the contents of the file named  to a file named . Both  and  need to be the entire filename of the files, including path.

- The destination location must be writable; otherwise, an  exception will be raised.

- If  already exists, it will be replaced.

- Special files such as character or block devices and pipes cannot be copied with this function.

- With ,  and  are path names given as s.

Another  method to look at is . It's similar but preserves more metadata (e.g. time stamps).

If you use  operations, use  rather than .  will only accept strings.

A: Environment variables are accessed through :

To see a list of all environment variables:

If a key is not present, attempting to access it will raise a . To avoid this:

A: Setting the default editor for Git

Pick one:

- 

Set  in your Git config:

- 

Set the  environment variable:

Setting the default editor for all programs

Set the standardized  and  environment variables*:

NOTE: Setting both is not necessarily needed, but some programs may not use the more-correct . See  vs. .

Fixing compatibility issues

Some editors require a  flag, or they will open a blank page. For example:

- 

Sublime Text (if correctly set up; or use the full path to the executable in place of ):

- 

VS Code (after adding the shell command):

A: Strings are immutable. That means once you've created the , if another process can dump memory, there's no way (aside from reflection) you can get rid of the data before garbage collection kicks in.

With an array, you can explicitly wipe the data after you're done with it. You can overwrite the array with anything you like, and the password won't be present anywhere in the system, even before garbage collection.

So yes, this is a security concern - but even using  only reduces the window of opportunity for an attacker, and it's only for this specific type of attack.

As noted in the comments, it's possible that arrays being moved by the garbage collector will leave stray copies of the data in memory. I believe this is implementation-specific - the garbage collector may clear all memory as it goes, to avoid this sort of thing. Even if it does, there's still the time during which the  contains the actual characters as an attack window.

A: From an int:

From a string:

Dynamically (type not known at compile-time):

A: Update 2020 / Git 2.23

Git 2.23 adds the new  subcommand in an attempt to clear some of the confusion that comes from the overloaded usage of  (switching branches, restoring files, detaching HEAD, etc.)

Starting with this version of Git, replace the checkout command with:

The behavior is identical and remains unchanged.

Before Update 2020 / Git 2.23

Use the following:

This will leave your current branch as it is, create and checkout a new branch and keep all your changes. You can then stage changes in files to commit with:

and commit to your new branch with:

The changes in the working directory and changes staged in index do not belong to any branch yet. This changes the branch where those modifications would end in.

You don't reset your original branch, it stays as it is. The last commit on  will still be the same. Therefore you  and then commit.

A: Modern HTML5 Techniques for changing classes

Modern browsers have added classList which provides methods to make it easier to manipulate classes without needing a library:

Unfortunately, these do not work in Internet Explorer prior to v10, though there is a shim to add support for it to IE8 and IE9, available from this page. It is, though, getting more and more supported.
Simple cross-browser solution

The standard JavaScript way to select an element is using , which is what the following examples use - you can of course obtain elements in other ways, and in the right situation may simply use  instead - however, going into detail on this is beyond the scope of the answer.
To change all classes for an element:

To replace all existing classes with one or more new classes, set the className attribute:

(You can use a space-delimited list to apply multiple classes.)
To add an additional class to an element:

To add a class to an element, without removing/affecting existing values, append a space and the new classname, like so:

To remove a class from an element:

To remove a single class to an element, without affecting other potential classes, a simple regex replace is required:

An explanation of this regex is as follows:

The  flag tells the replace to repeat as required, in case the class name has been added multiple times.
To check if a class is already applied to an element:

The same regex used above for removing a class can also be used as a check as to whether a particular class exists:

Assigning these actions to onClick events:

Whilst it is possible to write JavaScript directly inside the HTML event attributes (such as ) this is not recommended behavior. Especially on larger applications, more maintainable code is achieved by separating HTML markup from JavaScript interaction logic.

The first step to achieving this is by creating a function, and calling the function in the onClick attribute, for example:

(It is not required to have this code in script tags, this is simply for the brevity of example, and including the JavaScript in a distinct file may be more appropriate.)

The second step is to move the onClick event out of the HTML and into JavaScript, for example using addEventListener

(Note that the window.onload part is required so that the contents of that function are executed after the HTML has finished loading - without this, the MyElement might not exist when the JavaScript code is called, so that line would fail.)

JavaScript Frameworks and Libraries

The above code is all in standard JavaScript, however, it is common practice to use either a framework or a library to simplify common tasks, as well as benefit from fixed bugs and edge cases that you might not think of when writing your code.

Whilst some people consider it overkill to add a ~50  KB framework for simply changing a class, if you are doing any substantial amount of JavaScript work or anything that might have unusual cross-browser behavior, it is well worth considering.

(Very roughly, a library is a set of tools designed for a specific task, whilst a framework generally contains multiple libraries and performs a complete set of duties.)

The examples above have been reproduced below using jQuery, probably the most commonly used JavaScript library (though there are others worth investigating too).

(Note that  here is the jQuery object.)
Changing Classes with jQuery:

In addition, jQuery provides a shortcut for adding a class if it doesn't apply, or removing a class that does:

### Assigning a function to a click event with jQuery:

or, without needing an id:

A: Use . For example, to modify commit , run:

Please note the tilde  at the end of the command, because you need to reapply commits on top of the previous commit of  (i.e. ).

In the default editor, modify  to  in the line mentioning .

Save the file and exit. git will interpret and automatically execute the commands in the file. You will find yourself in the previous situation in which you just had created commit .

At this point,  is your last commit and you can easily amend it. Make your changes and then commit them with the command:

After that, return back to the previous HEAD commit using:

WARNING: Note that this will change the SHA-1 of that commit as well as all children -- in other words, this rewrites the history from that point forward. You can break repos doing this if you push using the command .

A: Use:

As noted in the comments, the line below works, but breaks if you have a frame, image, or form with .

See URL of type DOMString, readonly.

A: If you look at the Java documentation you'll notice the "catch" is that this function can throw a , which you can handle:

(This treatment defaults a malformed number to , but you can do something else if you like.)

Alternatively, you can use an  method from the Guava library, which in combination with Java 8's , makes for a powerful and concise way to convert a string into an int:

A: ECMAScript 6 (ES6) introduces a new type of literal, namely template literals. They have many features, variable interpolation among others, but most importantly for this question, they can be multiline.

A template literal is delimited by backticks:

(Note: I'm not advocating to use HTML in strings)

Browser support is OK, but you can use transpilers to be more compatible.

Original ES5 answer:

JavaScript doesn't have a heredoc syntax. You can escape the literal newline, however, which comes close:

A: should show all the local branches of your repo. The starred branch is your current branch.

To retrieve only the name of the branch you are on:

Version 2.22 adds the  option to ”print the name of the current branch”. The combination also works for freshly initialized repositories before the first commit:

A: You create a new key/value pair on a dictionary by assigning a value to that key

If the key doesn't exist, it's added and points to that value. If it exists, the current value it points to is overwritten.

A: You can use  to force the merge to happen.

The reason behind this is that default behavior has changed since Git 2.9:

"git merge" used to allow merging two branches that have no common
base by default, which led to a brand new history of an existing
project created and then get pulled by an unsuspecting maintainer,
which allowed an unnecessary parallel history merged into the
existing project. The command has been taught not to allow this by
default, with an escape hatch  option
to be used in a rare event that merges histories of two projects
that started their lives independently.

See the Git release changelog for more information.

More information can be found in this answer.

A: Java 7+

In Java 1.7 or later, the standard way to do this (generate a basic non-cryptographically secure random integer in the range [min, max]) is as follows:

See the relevant JavaDoc.  This approach has the advantage of not needing to explicitly initialize a java.util.Random instance, which can be a source of confusion and error if used inappropriately.

However, conversely with ThreadLocalRandom there is no way to explicitly set the seed so it can be difficult to reproduce results in situations where that is useful such as testing or saving game states or similar.
Java 17+

As of Java 17, the psuedorandom number generating classes in the standard library implement the  interface.  See the linked JavaDoc for more information.  For example, if a cryptographically strong random number generator is desired, the  class can be used.
Earlier Java

Before Java 1.7, the standard way to do this is as follows:

See the relevant JavaDoc.  In practice, the java.util.Random class is often preferable to java.lang.Math.random().

In particular, there is no need to reinvent the random integer generation wheel when there is a straightforward API within the standard library to accomplish the task.

A: If the value is a text type:

If the value is a number:

There is a downside that values like 1.5 will give "1.50" as the output. A fix suggested by @minitech:

It seems like  is a better solution. But it is not! In some cases it will not round correctly:

toFixed() will also not round correctly in some cases (tested in Chrome v.55.0.2883.87)!

Examples:

I guess, this is because 1.555 is actually something like float 1.55499994 behind the scenes.

Solution 1 is to use a script with required rounding algorithm, for example:

It is also at Plunker.

Note: This is not a universal solution for everyone. There are several different rounding algorithms. Your implementation can be different, and it depends on your requirements. See also Rounding.

Solution 2 is to avoid front end calculations and pull rounded values from the backend server.

Another possible solution, which is not a bulletproof either.

In some cases, when you round a number like 1.3549999999999998, it will return an incorrect result. It should be 1.35, but the result is 1.36.

A: Use  instead:

 behaves more consistently across different environments than .

A: The compiler is allowed to make one implicit conversion to resolve the parameters to a function. This means that the compiler can use constructors callable with a single parameter to convert from one type to another in order to get the right type for a parameter.

Here's an example with converting constructors that shows how it works:

Prefixing the  keyword to the constructor prevents the compiler from using that constructor for implicit conversions. Adding it to the above class will create a compiler error at the function call .  It is now necessary to call for conversion explicitly with  

The reason you might want to do this is to avoid accidental construction that can hide bugs.

Contrived example:

- You have a  class with a constructor that constructs a string of the given size.  You have a function  (as well as an overload ), and you call  (when you actually intended to call ).  You expect it to print "3", but it prints an empty string of length 3 instead.

A: First, create a new local branch and check it out:

The remote branch is automatically created when you push it to the remote server:

 is typically , which is the name which git gives to the remote you cloned from. Your colleagues may then simply pull that branch.

Note however that formally, the format is:

But when you omit one, it assumes both branch names are the same. Having said this, as a word of caution, do not make the critical mistake of specifying only  (with the colon), or the remote branch will be deleted!

So that a subsequent  will know what to do, you might instead want to use:

As described below, the  option sets up an upstream branch:

For every branch that is up to date or
successfully pushed, add upstream
(tracking) reference, used by
argument-less git-pull(1) and other
commands.

A: There are several differences between  and  in Java:

- 

 is synchronized, whereas  is not. This makes  better for non-threaded applications, as unsynchronized Objects typically perform better than synchronized ones.

- 

 does not allow  keys or values.   allows one  key and any number of  values.

- 

One of HashMap's subclasses is , so in the event that you'd want predictable iteration order (which is insertion order by default), you could easily swap out the  for a .  This wouldn't be as easy if you were using .

Since synchronization is not an issue for you, I'd recommend . If synchronization becomes an issue, you may also look at .

A: Cherry-picking in Git means choosing a commit from one branch and applying it to another.

This contrasts with other ways such as  and  which normally apply many commits to another branch.

It's also possible to cherry-pick multiple commits but  is the preferred way over cherry-picking.

- 

Make sure you are on the branch you want to apply the commit to.

- 

Execute the following:

N.B.:

- 

If you cherry-pick from a public branch, you should consider using

This will generate a standardized commit message. This way, you (and your co-workers) can still keep track of the origin of the commit and may avoid merge conflicts in the future.

- 

If you have notes attached to the commit they do not follow the cherry-pick. To bring them over as well, You have to use:

Additional links:

- git official guide page

- git cherry-pick guide

A: ECMAScript 2018 Standard Method

You would use object spread:

 is now the union of  and . Properties in  will overwrite those in .

Here is also the MDN documentation for this syntax. If you're using babel you'll need the @babel/plugin-proposal-object-rest-spread plugin for it to work (This plugin is included in , in ES2018).

ECMAScript 2015 (ES6) Standard Method

(see MDN JavaScript Reference)

Method for ES5 and Earlier

Note that this will simply add all attributes of  to  which might not be what you want if you still want to use the unmodified .

If you're using a framework that craps all over your prototypes then you have to get fancier with checks like , but that code will work for 99% of cases.

Example function:

additionally :- check this program for see differnce between Object.assign & spread syntax object literals

A: doesn't actually create a second list. The assignment just copies the reference to the list, not the actual list, so both  and  refer to the same list after the assignment.

To actually copy the list, you have several options:

- 

You can use the built-in  method (available since Python 3.3):

- 

You can slice it:

Alex Martelli's opinion (at least back in 2007) about this is, that it is a weird syntax and it does not make sense to use it ever. ;) (In his opinion, the next one is more readable).

- 

You can use the built-in  constructor:

- 

You can use generic :

This is a little slower than  because it has to find out the datatype of  first.

- 

If you need to copy the elements of the list as well, use generic :

Obviously the slowest and most memory-needing method, but sometimes unavoidable. This operates recursively; it will handle any number of levels of nested lists (or other containers).

Example:

Result:

A: Use :

For just the clock time without the date:

To save typing, you can import the  object from the  module:

Then remove the prefix  from all of the above.

A: The difference is that  lets you invoke the function with  as an array;  requires the parameters be listed explicitly. A useful mnemonic is "A for array and C for comma."

See MDN's documentation on apply and call.

Pseudo syntax:

There is also, as of ES6, the possibility to  the array for use with the  function, you can see the compatibilities here.

Sample code:

A: PowerShell
TCP

This shows several columns of information about the process.  The Id column is the PID you need if you want to kill it with .
UDP

cmd

(Add -n to stop it trying to resolve hostnames, which will make it a lot faster.)

Note Dane's recommendation for TCPView. It looks very useful!

-a  Displays all connections and listening ports.

-b  Displays the executable involved in creating each connection or listening port. In some cases well-known executables host multiple independent components, and in these cases the sequence of components involved in creating the connection or listening port is displayed. In this case the executable name is in [] at the bottom, on top is the component it called, and so forth until TCP/IP was reached. Note that this option can be time-consuming and will fail unless you have sufficient permissions.

-n  Displays addresses and port numbers in numerical form.

-o  Displays the owning process ID associated with each connection.

A: Basics

For controlling "cellpadding" in CSS, you can simply use  on table cells. E.g. for 10px of "cellpadding":

For "cellspacing", you can apply the  CSS property to your table. E.g. for 10px of "cellspacing":

This property will even allow separate horizontal and vertical spacing, something you couldn't do with old-school "cellspacing".

Issues in IE ≤  7

This will work in almost all popular browsers except for Internet Explorer up through Internet Explorer 7, where you're almost out of luck. I say "almost" because these browsers still support the  property, which merges the borders of adjoining table cells. If you're trying to eliminate cellspacing (that is, ) then  should have the same effect: no space between table cells. This support is buggy, though, as it does not override an existing  HTML attribute on the table element.

In short: for non-Internet Explorer 5-7 browsers,  handles you. For Internet Explorer, if your situation is just right (you want 0 cellspacing and your table doesn't have it defined already), you can use .

Note: For a great overview of CSS properties that one can apply to tables and for which browsers, see this fantastic Quirksmode page.

A: Summary  with  are preferable in many more use-cases than . If you're not sure — just start with .

TLDR, in  accessing an element takes constant time [O(1)] and adding an element takes O(n) time [worst case]. In  inserting an element takes O(n) time and accessing also takes O(n) time but  uses more memory than .

 and  are two different implementations of the  interface.  implements it with a doubly-linked list.  implements it with a dynamically re-sizing array.

As with standard linked list and array operations, the various methods will have different algorithmic runtimes.

For 

-  is O(n) (with n/4 steps on average), but O(1) when  or  (in this case, you can also use  and ).

-  is O(n) (with n/4 steps on average), but O(1) when  or  (in this case, you can also use  and /). One of the main benefits of 

-  is O(n) (with n/4 steps on average), but O(1) when  or  (in this case, you can also use  and ). One of the main benefits of 

-  is O(1). One of the main benefits of 

-  is O(1). One of the main benefits of 

Note: Many of the operations need n/4 steps on average, constant number of steps in the best case (e.g. index = 0), and n/2 steps in worst case (middle of list)

For 

-  is O(1). Main benefit of 

-  is O(1) amortized, but O(n) worst-case since the array must be resized and copied

-  is O(n) (with n/2 steps on average)

-  is O(n) (with n/2 steps on average)

-  is O(n) (with n/2 steps on average)

-  is O(n) (with n/2 steps on average)

Note: Many of the operations need n/2 steps on average, constant number of steps in the best case (end of list), n steps in the worst case (start of list)

 allows for constant-time insertions or removals using iterators, but only sequential access of elements. In other words, you can walk the list forwards or backwards, but finding a position in the list takes time proportional to the size of the list. Javadoc says "operations that index into the list will traverse the list from the beginning or the end, whichever is closer", so those methods are O(n) (n/4 steps) on average, though O(1) for .

, on the other hand, allow fast random read access, so you can grab any element in constant time. But adding or removing from anywhere but the end requires shifting all the latter elements over, either to make an opening or fill the gap. Also, if you add more elements than the capacity of the underlying array, a new array (1.5 times the size) is allocated, and the old array is copied to the new one, so adding to an  is O(n) in the worst case but constant on average.

So depending on the operations you intend to do, you should choose the implementations accordingly. Iterating over either kind of List is practically equally cheap. (Iterating over an  is technically faster, but unless you're doing something really performance-sensitive, you shouldn't worry about this -- they're both constants.)

The main benefits of using a  arise when you re-use existing iterators to insert and remove elements. These operations can then be done in O(1) by changing the list locally only. In an array list, the remainder of the array needs to be moved (i.e. copied). On the other side, seeking in a  means following the links in O(n) (n/2 steps) for worst case, whereas in an  the desired position can be computed mathematically and accessed in O(1).

Another benefit of using a  arises when you add or remove from the head of the list, since those operations are O(1), while they are O(n) for . Note that  may be a good alternative to  for adding and removing from the head, but it is not a .

Also, if you have large lists, keep in mind that memory usage is also different. Each element of a  has more overhead since pointers to the next and previous elements are also stored.  don't have this overhead. However,  take up as much memory as is allocated for the capacity, regardless of whether elements have actually been added.

The default initial capacity of an  is pretty small (10 from Java 1.4 - 1.8). But since the underlying implementation is an array, the array must be resized if you add a lot of elements. To avoid the high cost of resizing when you know you're going to add a lot of elements, construct the  with a higher initial capacity.

If the data structures perspective is used to understand the two structures, a LinkedList is basically a sequential data structure which contains a head Node. The Node is a wrapper for two components : a value of type T [accepted through generics] and another reference to the Node linked to it. So, we can assert it is a recursive data structure (a Node contains another Node which has another Node and so on...). Addition of elements takes linear time in LinkedList as stated above.

An ArrayList is a growable array. It is just like a regular array. Under the hood, when an element is added, and the ArrayList is already full to capacity, it creates another array with a size which is greater than previous size. The elements are then copied from previous array to new one and the elements that are to be added are also placed at the specified indices.

A: The W3C's Selectors Level 4 Working Draft includes a  pseudo-class that provides this capability, among others:

All major browsers support this selector. Refer to https://caniuse.com/css-has to check if your target browser or browser versions have support for it.

You may need to resort to using JavaScript if your target browser does not fully support this feature.

A: It converts  to . If it was falsy (e.g., , , , etc.), it would be , otherwise, .

So  is not an operator; it's just the  operator twice.

It is generally simpler to do:

Real World Example "Test IE version":

If you ⇒

But if you ⇒

A: let's you select the hunks that should be stashed; whole files can be selected as well.

You'll be prompted with a few actions for each hunk:

A: Alex Martelli summarized well but, surprisingly, was too succinct.

First, let me reiterate the main points in Alex’s post:

- The default implementation is useless (it’s hard to think of one which wouldn’t be, but yeah)

-  goal is to be unambiguous

-  goal is to be readable

- Container’s  uses contained objects’ 

Default implementation is useless

This is mostly a surprise because Python’s defaults tend to be fairly useful. However, in this case, having a default for  which would act like:

Or in new f-string formatting:

would have been too dangerous (for example, too easy to get into infinite recursion if objects reference each other). So Python cops out. Note that there is one default which is true: if  is defined, and  is not, the object will behave as though .

This means, in simple terms: almost every object you implement should have a functional  that’s usable for understanding the object. Implementing  is optional: do that if you need a “pretty print” functionality (for example, used by a report generator).

The goal of  is to be unambiguous

Let me come right out and say it — I do not believe in debuggers. I don’t really know how to use any debugger, and have never used one seriously. Furthermore, I believe that the big fault in debuggers is their basic nature — most failures I debug happened a long long time ago, in a galaxy far far away. This means that I do believe, with religious fervor, in logging. Logging is the lifeblood of any decent fire-and-forget server system. Python makes it easy to log: with maybe some project specific wrappers, all you need is a

But you have to do the last step — make sure every object you implement has a useful repr, so code like that can just work. This is why the “eval” thing comes up: if you have enough information so , that means you know everything there is to know about . If that’s easy enough, at least in a fuzzy way, do it. If not, make sure you have enough information about  anyway. I usually use an eval-like format: . It does not mean that you can actually construct MyClass, or that those are the right constructor arguments — but it is a useful form to express “this is everything you need to know about this instance”.

Note: I used  above, not . You always want to use  [or  formatting character, equivalently] inside  implementation, or you’re defeating the goal of repr. You want to be able to differentiate  and .

The goal of  is to be readable

Specifically, it is not intended to be unambiguous — notice that . Likewise, if you implement an IP abstraction, having the str of it look like 192.168.1.1 is just fine. When implementing a date/time abstraction, the str can be "2010/4/12 15:35:22", etc. The goal is to represent it in a way that a user, not a programmer, would want to read it. Chop off useless digits, pretend to be some other class — as long is it supports readability, it is an improvement.

Container’s  uses contained objects’ 

This seems surprising, doesn’t it? It is a little, but how readable would it be if it used their ?

Not very. Specifically, the strings in a container would find it way too easy to disturb its string representation. In the face of ambiguity, remember, Python resists the temptation to guess. If you want the above behavior when you’re printing a list, just

(you can probably also figure out what to do about dictionaries).

Summary

Implement  for any class you implement. This should be second nature. Implement  if you think it would be useful to have a string version which errs on the side of readability.

A: Overview

There are three primary browser APIs for copying to the clipboard:

- 

Async Clipboard API 

- Text-focused portion available in Chrome 66 (March 2018)

- Access is asynchronous and uses JavaScript Promises, can be written so security user prompts (if displayed) don't interrupt the JavaScript in the page.

- Text can be copied to the clipboard directly from a variable.

- Only supported on pages served over HTTPS.

- In Chrome 66 pages inactive tabs can write to the clipboard without a permissions prompt.

- 

 (deprecated) 👎

- Most browsers support this as of ~April 2015 (see Browser Support below).

- Access is synchronous, i.e. stops JavaScript in the page until complete including displaying and user interacting with any security prompts.

- Text is read from the DOM and placed on the clipboard.

- During testing ~April 2015 only Internet Explorer was noted as displaying permissions prompts whilst writing to the clipboard.

- 

Overriding the copy event

- See Clipboard API documentation on Overriding the copy event.

- Allows you to modify what appears on the clipboard from any copy event, can include other formats of data other than plain text.

- Not covered here as it doesn't directly answer the question.

General development notes

Don't expect clipboard related commands to work whilst you are testing code in the console. Generally, the page is required to be active (Async Clipboard API) or requires user interaction (e.g. a user click) to allow () to access the clipboard see below for more detail.
IMPORTANT (noted here 2020/02/20)

Note that since this post was originally written deprecation of permissions in cross-origin IFRAMEs and other IFRAME "sandboxing" prevents the embedded demos "Run code snippet" buttons and "codepen.io example" from working in some browsers (including Chrome and Microsoft Edge).

To develop create your own web page, serve that page over an HTTPS connection to test and develop against.

Here is a test/demo page which demonstrates the code working:
https://deanmarktaylor.github.io/clipboard-test/
Async + Fallback

Due to the level of browser support for the new Async Clipboard API, you will likely want to fall back to the  method to get good browser coverage.

Here is a simple example (may not work embedded in this site, read "important" note above):








(codepen.io example may not work, read "important" note above)
Note that this snippet is not working well in Stack Overflow's embedded preview you can try it here: https://codepen.io/DeanMarkTaylor/pen/RMRaJX?editors=1011
Async Clipboard API

- MDN Reference

- Chrome 66 announcement post (March 2018)

- Reference Async Clipboard API draft documentation

Note that there is an ability to "request permission" and test for access to the clipboard via the permissions API in Chrome 66.

document.execCommand('copy')

The rest of this post goes into the nuances and detail of the  API.
Browser Support

The JavaScript  support has grown, see the links below for browser updates:  (deprecated) 👎

- Internet Explorer 10+ (although this document indicates some support was there from Internet Explorer 5.5+).

- Google Chrome 43+ (~April 2015)

- Mozilla Firefox 41+ (shipping ~September 2015)

- Opera 29+ (based on Chromium 42, ~April 2015)

Simple Example

(may not work embedded in this site, read "important" note above)







Complex Example: Copy to clipboard without displaying input

The above simple example works great if there is a  or  element visible on the screen.

In some cases, you might wish to copy text to the clipboard without displaying an  /  element. This is one example of a way to work around this (basically insert an element, copy to clipboard, remove element):

Tested with Google Chrome 44, Firefox 42.0a1, and Internet Explorer 11.0.8600.17814.

(may not work embedded in this site, read "important" note above)







Additional notes
Only works if the user takes an action

All  calls must take place as a direct result of a user action, e.g. click event handler. This is a measure to prevent messing with the user's clipboard when they don't expect it.

See the Google Developers post here for more info.
Clipboard API

Note the full Clipboard API draft specification can be found here:
https://w3c.github.io/clipboard-apis/
Is it supported?

-  should return  if the command "is supported by the browser".

- and  return  if the  will succeed if called now. Checking to ensure the command was called from a user-initiated thread and other requirements are met.

However, as an example of browser compatibility issues, Google Chrome from ~April to ~October 2015 only returned  from  if the command was called from a user-initiated thread.

Note compatibility detail below.
Browser Compatibility Detail

Whilst a simple call to  wrapped in a / block called as a result of a user click will get you the most compatibility use the following has some provisos:

Any call to ,  or  should be wrapped in a / block.

Different browser implementations and browser versions throw differing types of exceptions when called instead of returning .

Different browser implementations are still in flux and the Clipboard API is still in draft, so remember to do your testing.

A: Try this markdown:

I think you can link directly to the raw version of an image if it's stored in your repository. i.e.

A: The fully RFC 822 compliant regex is inefficient and obscure because of its length.  Fortunately, RFC 822 was superseded twice and the current specification for email addresses is RFC 5322.  RFC 5322 leads to a regex that can be understood if studied for a few minutes and is efficient enough for actual use.

One RFC 5322 compliant regex can be found at the top of the page at http://emailregex.com/ but uses the IP address pattern that is floating around the internet with a bug that allows  for any of the unsigned byte decimal values in a dot-delimited address, which is illegal.  The rest of it appears to be consistent with the RFC 5322 grammar and passes several tests using , including cases domain names, IP addresses, bad ones, and account names with and without quotes.

Correcting the  bug in the IP pattern, we obtain a working and fairly fast regex:

Here is diagram of finite state machine for above regexp which is clearer than the regexp itself:

The more sophisticated patterns in Perl and PCRE (regex library used e.g. in PHP) can correctly parse RFC 5322 without a hitch. Python and C# can do that too, but they use a different syntax from those first two. However, if you are forced to use one of the many less powerful pattern-matching languages, then it’s best to use a real parser.

It's also important to understand that validating it per the RFC tells you absolutely nothing about whether that address actually exists at the supplied domain, or whether the person entering the address is its true owner. People sign others up to mailing lists this way all the time. Fixing that requires a fancier kind of validation that involves sending that address a message that includes a confirmation token meant to be entered on the same web page as was the address.

Confirmation tokens are the only way to know you got the address of the person entering it. This is why most mailing lists now use that mechanism to confirm sign-ups. After all, anybody can put down , and that will even parse as legal, but it isn't likely to be the person at the other end.

For PHP, you should not use the pattern given in Validate an E-Mail Address with PHP, the Right Way from which I quote:

There is some danger that common usage and widespread sloppy coding will establish a de facto standard for e-mail addresses that is more restrictive than the recorded formal standard.

That is no better than all the other non-RFC patterns. It isn’t even smart enough to handle even RFC 822, let alone RFC 5322. This one, however, is.

If you want to get fancy and pedantic, implement a complete state engine. A regular expression can only act as a rudimentary filter. The problem with regular expressions is that telling someone that their perfectly valid e-mail address is invalid (a false negative) because your regular expression can't handle it is just rude and impolite from the user's perspective. A state engine for the purpose can both validate and even correct e-mail addresses that would otherwise be considered invalid as it disassembles the e-mail address according to each RFC. This allows for a potentially more pleasing experience, like

The specified e-mail address 'myemail@address,com' is invalid. Did you mean 'myemail@address.com'?

See also Validating Email Addresses, including the comments. Or Comparing E-mail Address Validating Regular Expressions.

Debuggex Demo

A: Iterate through the  like so:

Read more about .

A: The  and  are common idioms to allow an arbitrary number of arguments to functions, as described in the section more on defining functions in the Python tutorial.

The  will give you all positional arguments as a tuple:

The  will give you all
keyword arguments as a dictionary:

Both idioms can be mixed with normal arguments to allow a set of fixed and some variable arguments:

It is also possible to use this the other way around:

Another usage of the  idiom is to unpack argument lists when calling a function.

In Python 3 it is possible to use  on the left side of an assignment (Extended Iterable Unpacking), though it gives a list instead of a tuple in this context:

Also Python 3 adds a new semantic (refer PEP 3102):

Such function accepts only 3 positional arguments, and everything after  can only be passed as keyword arguments.
Note:

A Python , semantically used for keyword argument passing, is arbitrarily ordered. However, in Python 3.6+, keyword arguments are guaranteed to remember insertion order.
"The order of elements in  now corresponds to the order in which keyword arguments were passed to the function." - What’s New In Python 3.6.
In fact, all dicts in CPython 3.6 will remember insertion order as an implementation detail, and this becomes standard in Python 3.7.

A: You could use the  Method and pass  as the type of search to use:

Even better is defining a new extension method for string:

Note, that null propagation  is available since C# 6.0 (VS 2015), for older versions use

USAGE:

A: This lets Git generate the patches for each log entry:

 in git generates patch text

See  for more options — it can actually do a lot of nice things. :)

To get just the diff for a specific commit, use

or specify any other revision by identifier.

To browse the changes visually:

To see changes visually without leaving the console, run:

However, first ensure  command exists, by at least once running:

Note that  is intentionally limited to showing few lines per change-range, for example, to skip  faster.

A: If you need slightly less control over formatting than the currently accepted answer,  can be used to create standard locale-specific renderings. The  and  arguments let applications specify the language whose formatting conventions should be used, and allow some customization of the rendering.
Options key examples:

- day: 

The representation of the day. 

Possible values are "numeric", "2-digit".

- weekday: 

The representation of the weekday. 

Possible values are "narrow", "short", "long".

- year: 

The representation of the year. 

Possible values are "numeric", "2-digit".

- month: 

The representation of the month. 

Possible values are "numeric", "2-digit", "narrow", "short", "long".

- hour: 

The representation of the hour. 

Possible values are "numeric", "2-digit".

- minute:
The representation of the minute. 

Possible values are "numeric", "2-digit".

- second: 

The representation of the second. 

Possible values are "numeric", 2-digit".

- hour12: 

The representation of time format. 

Accepts boolean true or false

All these keys are optional.  You can change the number of options values based on your requirements, and this will also reflect the presence of each date time term.

Note: If you would only like to configure the content options, but still use the current locale, passing  for the first parameter will cause an error.  Use  instead.
For different languages:

- "en-US": For American English

- "en-GB": For British English

- "hi-IN": For Hindi

- "ja-JP": For Japanese

You can use more language options.
For example







You can also use the  method for the same purpose. The only difference is this function provides the time when you don't pass any options.

References:

- 

-

A: Binary floating point math works like this. In most programming languages, it is based on the IEEE 754 standard. The crux of the problem is that numbers are represented in this format as a whole number times a power of two; rational numbers (such as , which is ) whose denominator is not a power of two cannot be exactly represented.

For  in the standard  format, the representation can be written exactly as

-  in decimal, or

-  in C99 hexfloat notation.

In contrast, the rational number , which is , can be written exactly as

-  in decimal, or

-  in an analog of C99 hexfloat notation, where the  represents an unending sequence of 9's.

The constants  and  in your program will also be approximations to their true values.  It happens that the closest  to  is larger than the rational number  but that the closest  to  is smaller than the rational number .  The sum of  and  winds up being larger than the rational number  and hence disagreeing with the constant in your code.

A fairly comprehensive treatment of floating-point arithmetic issues is What Every Computer Scientist Should Know About Floating-Point Arithmetic. For an easier-to-digest explanation, see floating-point-gui.de.
Side Note: All positional (base-N) number systems share this problem with precision

Plain old decimal (base 10) numbers have the same issues, which is why numbers like 1/3 end up as 0.333333333...

You've just stumbled on a number (3/10) that happens to be easy to represent with the decimal system but doesn't fit the binary system. It goes both ways (to some small degree) as well: 1/16 is an ugly number in decimal (0.0625), but in binary it looks as neat as a 10,000th does in decimal (0.0001)** - if we were in the habit of using a base-2 number system in our daily lives, you'd even look at that number and instinctively understand you could arrive there by halving something, halving it again, and again and again.

Of course, that's not exactly how floating-point numbers are stored in memory (they use a form of scientific notation). However, it does illustrate the point that binary floating-point precision errors tend to crop up because the "real world" numbers we are usually interested in working with are so often powers of ten - but only because we use a decimal number system day-to-day. This is also why we'll say things like 71% instead of "5 out of every 7" (71% is an approximation since 5/7 can't be represented exactly with any decimal number).

So, no: binary floating point numbers are not broken, they just happen to be as imperfect as every other base-N number system :)
Side Note: Working with Floats in Programming

In practice, this problem of precision means you need to use rounding functions to round your floating point numbers off to however many decimal places you're interested in before you display them.

You also need to replace equality tests with comparisons that allow some amount of tolerance, which means:

Do not do 

Instead do .

where  is the absolute value.  needs to be chosen for your particular application - and it will have a lot to do with how much "wiggle room" you are prepared to allow, and what the largest number you are going to be comparing may be (due to loss of precision issues). Beware of "epsilon" style constants in your language of choice. These can be used as tolerance values but their effectiveness depends on the magnitude (size) of the numbers you're working with, since calculations with large numbers may exceed the epsilon threshold.

A: REST is the underlying architectural principle of the web. The amazing thing about the web is the fact that clients (browsers) and servers can interact in complex ways without the client knowing anything beforehand about the server and the resources it hosts. The key constraint is that the server and client must both agree on the media used, which in the case of the web is HTML.

An API that adheres to the principles of REST does not require the client to know anything about the structure of the API. Rather, the server needs to provide whatever information the client needs to interact with the service. An HTML form is an example of this: The server specifies the location of the resource and the required fields. The browser doesn't know in advance where to submit the information, and it doesn't know in advance what information to submit. Both forms of information are entirely supplied by the server. (This principle is called HATEOAS: Hypermedia As The Engine Of Application State.)

So, how does this apply to HTTP, and how can it be implemented in practice? HTTP is oriented around verbs and resources. The two verbs in mainstream usage are  and , which I think everyone will recognize. However, the HTTP standard defines several others such as  and . These verbs are then applied to resources, according to the instructions provided by the server.

For example, Let's imagine that we have a user database that is managed by a web service. Our service uses a custom hypermedia based on JSON, for which we assign the mimetype  (There might also be an  and  - many media types may be supported). The client and the server have both been programmed to understand this format, but they don't know anything about each other. As Roy Fielding points out:

  

A REST API should spend almost all of its descriptive effort in
  defining the media type(s) used for representing resources and driving
  application state, or in defining extended relation names and/or
  hypertext-enabled mark-up for existing standard media types.

A request for the base resource  might return something like this:

Request

Response

We know from the description of our media that we can find information about related resources from sections called "links". This is called Hypermedia controls. In this case, we can tell from such a section that we can find a user list by making another request for :

Request

Response

We can tell a lot from this response. For instance, we now know we can create a new user by ing to :

Request

Response

We also know that we can change existing data:

Request

Response

Notice that we are using different HTTP verbs (, , ,  etc.) to manipulate these resources, and that the only knowledge we presume on the client's part is our media definition.

Further reading:

- The many much better answers on this very page.  

- How I explained REST to my wife.  

- How I explained REST to my wife.  

- Martin Fowler's
thoughts

- PayPal's API has hypermedia controls

(This answer has been the subject of a fair amount of criticism for missing the point. For the most part, that has been a fair critique. What I originally described was more in line with how REST was usually implemented a few years ago when I first wrote this, rather than its true meaning. I've revised the answer to better represent the real meaning.)

A: There's a native GUI for Windows:

- 

Start menu → All Programs → Accessories → System Tools → Resource Monitor

- 

or run ,

- 

or from TaskManager → Performance tab.

A: Consider two libraries called Foo and Bar:

Everything works fine, and you can call  from Foo and  from Bar without problems. But one day you upgrade to a new version of Foo 2.0, which now offers a function called . Now you've got a conflict: Both Foo 2.0 and Bar import  into your global namespace. This is going to take some effort to fix, especially if the function parameters happen to match.

If you had used  and , then the introduction of  would have been a non-event.

A: From the AngularJS mailing list I got an amazing thread that explains service vs factory vs provider and their injection usage. Compiling the answers:
Services

Syntax:  

Result: When declaring serviceName as an injectable argument you will be provided with an instance of the function. In other words .
Factories

Syntax:  

Result: When declaring factoryName as an injectable argument you will be provided with the value that is returned by invoking the function reference passed to module.factory.
Providers

Syntax:  

Result: When declaring providerName as an injectable argument you will be provided with . The constructor function is instantiated before the $get method is called -  is  the function reference passed to module.provider.

Providers have the advantage that they can be configured during the module configuration phase.

See here for the provided code.

Here's a great further explanation by Misko:

In this case the injector simply returns the value as is. But what if you want to compute the value? Then use a factory

So  is a function which is responsible for creating the value. Notice that the factory function can ask for other dependencies.

But what if you want to be more OO and have a class called Greeter?

Then to instantiate you would have to write

Then we could ask for 'greeter' in controller like this

But that is way too wordy. A shorter way to write this would be 

But what if we wanted to configure the  class before the injection? Then we could write

Then we can do this:

As a side note, , , and  are all derived from provider.

A: The best definition I've found so far is one by James Shore: 

  

"Dependency Injection" is a 25-dollar
  term for a 5-cent concept. [...]
  Dependency injection means giving an
  object its instance variables. [...].

There is an article by Martin Fowler that may prove useful, too.

Dependency injection is basically providing the objects that an object needs (its dependencies) instead of having it construct them itself. It's a very useful technique for testing, since it allows dependencies to be mocked or stubbed out.

Dependencies can be injected into objects by many means (such as constructor injection or setter injection). One can even use specialized dependency injection frameworks (e.g. Spring) to do that, but they certainly aren't required. You don't need those frameworks to have dependency injection. Instantiating and passing objects (dependencies) explicitly is just as good an injection as injection by framework.

A: It would be simpler if you were to just declare it as a fixed-size  (but with mutable elements) - does it have to be an ArrayList?

Or if you have only one element:

This would mean that  is immutable (trying to change it in any way will cause an  exception to be thrown).

To make a variable-size list that is a concrete  you can create an  from the fixed-size list:

And import the correct package:

A: For a graphical view, use :

To follow the file across file renames:

For a console view, maybe because you SSH into a head-less server, run:

However, first ensure  command exists, by at least once running:

Note that  is intentionally limited to showing few lines per change-range, for example, to skip  faster.

A: I prefer using the  module, as it does pattern matching and expansion.

It does pattern matching intuitively

It will return a list with the queried files and directories:

Note that  ignores files and directories that begin with a dot , as those are considered hidden files and directories, unless the pattern is something like .

Use  to escape strings that are not meant to be patterns:

A: The docs for  are probably about as good an explanation as you'll get:

The serialization runtime associates with each serializable class a version number, called a , which is used during deserialization to verify that the sender and receiver of a serialized object have loaded classes for that object that are compatible with respect to serialization. If the receiver has loaded a class for the object that has a different  than that of the corresponding sender's class, then deserialization will result in an
. A serializable class can declare its own  explicitly by declaring a field named  that must be static, final, and of type :

If a serializable class does not explicitly declare a , then the serialization runtime will calculate a default  value for that class based on various aspects of the class, as described in the Java(TM) Object Serialization Specification. However, it is strongly recommended that all serializable classes explicitly declare  values, since the default  computation is highly sensitive to class details that may vary depending on compiler implementations, and can thus result in unexpected  during deserialization. Therefore, to guarantee a consistent  value across different java compiler implementations, a serializable class must declare an explicit  value. It is also strongly advised that explicit  declarations use the private modifier where possible, since such declarations apply only to the immediately declaring class —  fields are not useful as inherited members.

A: Sorting solutions have been proposed, but sorting is a little too much: We don't need order; we just need equality groups.

So hashing would be enough (and faster).

- For each color of socks, form a pile. Iterate over all socks in your input basket and distribute them onto the color piles.

- Iterate over each pile and distribute it by some other metric (e.g. pattern) into the second set of piles

- Recursively apply this scheme until you have distributed all socks onto very small piles that you can visually process immediately

This kind of recursive hash partitioning is actually being done by SQL Server when it needs to hash join or hash aggregate over huge data sets. It distributes its build input stream into many partitions which are independent. This scheme scales to arbitrary amounts of data and multiple CPUs linearly.

You don't need recursive partitioning if you can find a distribution key (hash key) that provides enough buckets that each bucket is small enough to be processed very quickly. Unfortunately, I don't think socks have such a property.

If each sock had an integer called "PairID" one could easily distribute them into 10 buckets according to  (the last digit).

The best real-world partitioning I can think of is creating a rectangle of piles: one dimension is color, the other is the pattern. Why a rectangle? Because we need O(1) random-access to piles. (A 3D cuboid would also work, but that is not very practical.)

Update:

What about parallelism? Can multiple humans match the socks faster?

- The simplest parallelization strategy is to have multiple workers take from the input basket and put the socks onto the piles. This only scales up so much - imagine 100 people fighting over 10 piles. The synchronization costs (manifesting themselves as hand-collisions and human communication) destroy efficiency and speed-up (see the Universal Scalability Law!). Is this prone to deadlocks? No, because each worker only needs to access one pile at a time. With just one "lock" there cannot be a deadlock. Livelocks might be possible depending on how the humans coordinate access to piles. They might just use random backoff like network cards do that on a physical level to determine what card can exclusively access the network wire. If it works for NICs, it should work for humans as well.

- It scales nearly indefinitely if each worker has its own set of piles. Workers can then take big chunks of socks from the input basket (very little contention as they are doing it rarely) and they do not need to synchronise when distributing the socks at all (because they have thread-local piles). At the end, all workers need to union their pile-sets. I believe that can be done in O(log (worker count * piles per worker)) if the workers form an aggregation tree.

What about the element distinctness problem? As the article states, the element distinctness problem can be solved in . This is the same for the socks problem (also , if you need only one distribution step (I proposed multiple steps only because humans are bad at calculations - one step is enough if you distribute on , i.e. a perfect hash of all attributes)).

Clearly, one cannot go faster than , so we have reached the optimal lower bound.

Although the outputs are not exactly the same (in one case, just a boolean. In the other case, the pairs of socks), the asymptotic complexities are the same.

A: Here's a good way to create a true memory leak (objects inaccessible by running code but still stored in memory) in pure Java:

- The application creates a long-running thread (or use a thread pool to leak even faster).

- The thread loads a class via an (optionally custom) .

- The class allocates a large chunk of memory (e.g. ), stores a strong reference to it in a static field, and then stores a reference to itself in a .  Allocating the extra memory is optional (leaking the class instance is enough), but it will make the leak work that much faster.

- The application clears all references to the custom class or the  it was loaded from.

- Repeat.

Due to the way  is implemented in Oracle's JDK, this creates a memory leak:

- Each  has a private field , which actually stores the thread-local values.

- Each key in this map is a weak reference to a  object, so after that  object is garbage-collected, its entry is removed from the map.

- But each value is a strong reference, so when a value (directly or indirectly) points to the  object that is its key, that object will neither be garbage-collected nor removed from the map as long as the thread lives.

In this example, the chain of strong references looks like this:

 object →  map → instance of example class → example class → static  field →  object.

(The  doesn't really play a role in creating the leak, it just makes the leak worse because of this additional reference chain: example class →  → all the classes it has loaded. It was even worse in many JVM implementations, especially prior to Java 7, because classes and s were allocated straight into permgen and were never garbage-collected at all.)

A variation on this pattern is why application containers (like Tomcat) can leak memory like a sieve if you frequently redeploy applications which happen to use s that in some way point back to themselves. This can happen for a number of subtle reasons and is often hard to debug and/or fix.

Update: Since lots of people keep asking for it, here's some example code that shows this behavior in action.

A: I use this to split string by a delimiter. The first puts the results in a pre-constructed vector, the second returns a new vector.

Note that this solution does not skip empty tokens, so the following will find 4 items, one of which is empty:

A: The  option is valid from version 1.7.10 and later.

Please see also the other answer which many people prefer.

You may also want to make sure you understand the difference. And the difference is: by invoking  you're fetching all the branches and checking out one. That may, for instance, mean that your repository has a 5kB documentation or wiki branch and 5GB data branch. And whenever you want to edit your frontpage, you may end up cloning 5GB of data.

Again, that is not to say  is not the way to accomplish that, it's just that it's not always what you want to accomplish, when you're asking about cloning a specific branch.

A: As always with these questions, the JLS holds the answer. In this case §15.26.2 Compound Assignment Operators. An extract:

  

A compound assignment expression of the form  is equivalent to , where  is the type of , except that  is evaluated only once.

An example cited from §15.26.2

  

[...] the following code is correct:

  
  

and results in x having the value 7 because it is equivalent to:

In other words, your assumption is correct.

A: How to iterate over rows in a DataFrame in Pandas

Answer: DON'T*!

Iteration in Pandas is an anti-pattern and is something you should only do when you have exhausted every other option. You should not use any function with "" in its name for more than a few thousand rows or you will have to get used to a lot of waiting.

Do you want to print a DataFrame? Use .

Do you want to compute something? In that case, search for methods in this order (list modified from here):

- Vectorization

- Cython routines

- List comprehensions (vanilla  loop)

- :

- Reductions that can be performed in Cython

- Iteration in Python space

-    (deprecated since v1.5.0)

- 

- 

 and  (both receiving many votes in answers to this question) should be used in very rare circumstances, such as generating row objects/nametuples for sequential processing, which is really the only thing these functions are useful for.

Appeal to Authority

The documentation on iteration has a huge red warning box that says:

Iterating through pandas objects is generally slow. In many cases, iterating manually over the rows is not needed [...].

* It's actually a little more complicated than "don't".  is the correct answer to this question, but "vectorize your ops" is the better one. I will concede that there are circumstances where iteration cannot be avoided (for example, some operations where the result depends on the value computed for the previous row). However, it takes some familiarity with the library to know when. If you're not sure whether you need an iterative solution, you probably don't. PS: To know more about my rationale for writing this answer, skip to the very bottom.

Faster than Looping: Vectorization, Cython

A good number of basic operations and computations are "vectorized" by pandas (either through NumPy, or through Cythonized functions). This includes arithmetic, comparisons, (most) reductions, reshaping (such as pivoting), joins, and groupby operations. Look through the documentation on Essential Basic Functionality to find a suitable vectorized method for your problem.

If none exists, feel free to write your own using custom Cython extensions.

Next Best Thing: List Comprehensions*

List comprehensions should be your next port of call if 1) there is no vectorized solution available, 2) performance is important, but not important enough to go through the hassle of cythonizing your code, and 3) you're trying to perform elementwise transformation on your code. There is a good amount of evidence to suggest that list comprehensions are sufficiently fast (and even sometimes faster) for many common Pandas tasks.

The formula is simple,

If you can encapsulate your business logic into a function, you can use a list comprehension that calls it. You can make arbitrarily complex things work through the simplicity and speed of raw Python code.

Caveats

List comprehensions assume that your data is easy to work with - what that means is your data types are consistent and you don't have NaNs, but this cannot always be guaranteed.

- The first one is more obvious, but when dealing with NaNs, prefer in-built pandas methods if they exist (because they have much better corner-case handling logic), or ensure your business logic includes appropriate NaN handling logic.

- When dealing with mixed data types you should iterate over  instead of  as the latter implicitly upcasts data to the most common type. As an example if A is numeric and B is string,  will cast the entire array to string, which may not be what you want. Fortunately ping your columns together is the most straightforward workaround to this.

*Your mileage may vary for the reasons outlined in the Caveats section above.

An Obvious Example

Let's demonstrate the difference with a simple example of adding two pandas columns . This is a vectorizable operation (e.g. ), so it will be easy to contrast the performance of the methods discussed above.

Benchmarking code, for your reference. The line at the bottom measures a function written in numpandas, a style of Pandas that mixes heavily with NumPy to squeeze out maximum performance. Writing numpandas code should be avoided unless you know what you're doing. Stick to the API where you can (i.e., prefer  over ).

I should mention, however, that it isn't always this cut and dry. Sometimes the answer to "what is the best method for an operation" is "it depends on your data". My advice is to test out different approaches on your data before settling on one.

My Personal Opinion *

Most of the analyses performed on the various alternatives to the iter family has been through the lens of performance. However, in most situations you will typically be working on a reasonably sized dataset (nothing beyond a few thousand or 100K rows) and performance will come second to simplicity/readability of the solution.

Here is my personal preference when selecting a method to use for a problem.

For the novice:

- Vectorization (when possible)

- 

- List comprehensions

- /

- 

- Cython

For the more experienced:

- Vectorization (when possible)

- 

- List comprehensions

- Cython

- /

- 

Vectorization prevails as the most idiomatic method for any problem that can be vectorized. Always seek to vectorize! When in doubt, consult the docs, or look on Stack Overflow for an existing question on your particular task.

I do tend to go on about how bad  is in a lot of my posts, but I do concede it is easier for a beginner to wrap their head around what it's doing. Additionally, there are quite a few use cases for  has explained in this post of mine.

Cython ranks lower down on the list because it takes more time and effort to pull off correctly. You will usually never need to write code with pandas that demands this level of performance that even a list comprehension cannot satisfy.

* As with any personal opinion, please take with heaps of salt!

Further Reading

- 

10 Minutes to pandas, and Essential Basic Functionality - Useful links that introduce you to Pandas and its library of vectorized*/cythonized functions.

- 

Enhancing Performance - A primer from the documentation on enhancing standard Pandas operations

- 

Are for-loops in pandas really bad? When should I care? - a detailed write-up by me on list comprehensions and their suitability for various operations (mainly ones involving non-numeric data)

- 

When should I (not) want to use pandas apply() in my code? -  is slow (but not as slow as the  family. There are, however, situations where one can (or should) consider  as a serious alternative, especially in some  operations).

* Pandas string methods are "vectorized" in the sense that they are specified on the series but operate on each element. The underlying mechanisms are still iterative, because string operations are inherently hard to vectorize.

Why I Wrote this Answer

A common trend I notice from new users is to ask questions of the form "How can I iterate over my df to do X?". Showing code that calls  while doing something inside a  loop. Here is why. A new user to the library who has not been introduced to the concept of vectorization will likely envision the code that solves their problem as iterating over their data to do something. Not knowing how to iterate over a DataFrame, the first thing they do is Google it and end up here, at this question. They then see the accepted answer telling them how to, and they close their eyes and run this code without ever first questioning if iteration is the right thing to do.

The aim of this answer is to help new users understand that iteration is not necessarily the solution to every problem, and that better, faster and more idiomatic solutions could exist, and that it is worth investing time in exploring them. I'm not trying to start a war of iteration vs. vectorization, but I want new users to be informed when developing solutions to their problems with this library.

And finally ... a TLDR to summarize this post

Q: How do I pass a variable by reference?

I wrote this class for testing:

When I tried creating an instance, the output was . So it seems like parameters in Python are passed by value. Is that correct? How can I modify the code to get the effect of pass-by-reference, so that the output is ?

Sometimes people are surprised that code like , where  is a parameter name, doesn't impact on the caller's argument, but code like  does. This happens because item assignment and slice assignment are ways to mutate an existing object, rather than reassign a variable, despite the  syntax. See Why can a function modify some arguments as perceived by the caller, but not others? for details.

See also What's the difference between passing by reference vs. passing by value? for important, language-agnostic terminology discussion.

Q: How can I check if an object is an array?

I'm trying to write a function that either accepts a list of strings, or a single string. If it's a string, then I want to convert it to an array with just the one item so I can loop over it without fear of an error.

So how do I check if the variable is an array?

Q: How can I see the differences between two branches?

How can I see the differences between branches  and ?

Q: How to iterate over a dictionary?

I've seen a few different ways to iterate over a dictionary in C#.  Is there a standard way?

Q: Using async/await with a forEach loop

Are there any issues with using / in a  loop? I'm trying to loop through an array of files and  on the contents of each file.

This code does work, but could something go wrong with this? I had someone tell me that you're not supposed to use / in a higher-order function like this, so I just wanted to ask if there was any issue with this.

Q: How do I disable the resizable property of a textarea?

I want to disable the resizable property of a .

Currently, I can resize a  by clicking on the bottom right corner of the  and dragging the mouse. How can I disable this?

Q: What does " 2>&1 " mean?

To combine  and  into the  stream, we append this to a command:

For example, the following command shows the first few errors from compiling :

But what does  mean?

Q: How do I print colored text to the terminal?

How do I output colored text to the terminal in Python?

Q: How can I change the commit author for a single commit?

I want to change the  of a specific commit in the  history, and it's not the latest commit.

Related: How do I change the author and committer name/email for multiple commits?

Q: How to add a column with a default value to an existing table in SQL Server?

How can I add a column with a default value to an existing table in SQL Server 2000 / SQL Server 2005?

Q: Manually raising (throwing) an exception in Python

How do I raise an exception in Python so that it can later be caught via an  block?

Q: ssh "permissions are too open"

I get the following error from ssh:

What permissions should I give to the id_rsa file?

Q: Understanding Python super() with __init__() methods

Why is  used?

Is there a difference between using  and ?

Q: How do I make a time delay?

How do I put a time delay in a Python script?

Q: I ran into a merge conflict. How do I abort the merge?

I used  and had a merge conflict:

How do I abandon my changes to the file and keep only the pulled changes?

Q: How do you disable browser autocomplete on web form field / input tags?

How do you disable autocomplete in the major browsers for a specific input (or form field)?

Q: event.preventDefault() vs. return false

When I want to prevent other event handlers from executing after a certain event is fired, I can use one of two techniques. I'll use jQuery in the examples, but this applies to plain-JS as well:

1. 

2. 

Is there any significant difference between those two methods of stopping event propagation?

For me,  is simpler, shorter and probably less error prone than executing a method. With the method, you have to remember about correct casing, parenthesis, etc. 

Also, I have to define the first parameter in callback to be able to call the method. Perhaps, there are some reasons why I should avoid doing it like this and use  instead? What's the better way?

Q: How do I change the size of figures drawn with Matplotlib?

How do I change the size of figure drawn with Matplotlib?

Q: How to ensure closures created in a loop capture the value of the loop variable from their particular iteration?

It outputs this:

My value: 3

My value: 3

My value: 3

Whereas I'd like it to output:

My value: 0

My value: 1

My value: 2

The same problem occurs when the delay in running the function is caused by using event listeners:








… or asynchronous code, e.g. using Promises:







It is also apparent in  and  loops:







What’s the solution to this basic problem?

Q: How do I test a class that has private methods, fields or inner classes?

How do I use JUnit to test a class that has internal private methods, fields or nested classes?

It seems bad to change the access modifier for a method just to be able to run a test.

Q: How do I find and restore a deleted file in a Git repository?

Say I'm in a Git repository. I delete a file and commit that change. I continue working and make some more commits. Then, I discover that I need to restore that file after deleting it.

I know I can checkout a file using , but I don't know when that file was deleted.

- How do I find the commit that deleted a given filename?

- How do I restore that file back into my working copy?

Q: Detecting an undefined object property

How do I check if an object property in JavaScript is undefined?

Q: HTTP GET with request body

I'm developing a new RESTful webservice for our application.

When doing a GET on certain entities, clients can request the contents of the entity.
If they want to add some parameters (for example sorting a list) they can add these parameters in the query string.

Alternatively I want people to be able to specify these parameters in the request body.
HTTP/1.1 does not seem to explicitly forbid this. This will allow them to specify more information, might make it easier to specify complex XML requests.

Will HTTP clients have issues with using request bodies within a GET request?

https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2616

Q: How do I concatenate two lists in Python?

How do I concatenate two lists in Python?

Example:

Expected outcome:

Q: `git fetch` a remote branch

The remote repository contains various branches such as :

How do I switch to  in the local repository so that it tracks ?

I tried:

Q: How do I change the author and committer name/email for multiple commits?

How do I change the author for a range of commits?

Q: How do I check if a list is empty?

For example, if passed the following:

How do I check to see if  is empty?

Q: How can I check if a program exists from a Bash script?

How would I validate that a program exists, in a way that will either return an error and exit, or continue with the script?

It seems like it should be easy, but it's been stumping me.

Q: Should I use the datetime or timestamp data type in MySQL?

Would you recommend using a datetime or a timestamp field, and why (using MySQL)? 

I'm working with PHP on the server side.

Q: How do I clone a Git repository into a specific folder?

The command  creates a directory named  containing a Git repository:

I want the contents of the Git repository cloned into my current directory  instead:

Q: How do I make function decorators and chain them together?

How do I make two decorators in Python that would do the following?

Calling  should return:

Q: Is it possible to apply CSS to half of a character?

What I am looking for:

A way to style one HALF of a character. (In this case, half the letter being transparent)

What I have currently searched for and tried (With no luck):

- Methods for styling half of a character/letter

- Styling part of a character with CSS or JavaScript

- Apply CSS to 50% of a character

Below is an example of what I am trying to obtain.

Does a CSS or JavaScript solution exist for this, or am I going to have to resort to images? I would prefer not to go the image route as this text will end up being generated dynamically.

Q: When should static_cast, dynamic_cast, const_cast, and reinterpret_cast be used?

What are the proper uses of:

- 

- 

- 

- 

-  (C-style cast)

-  (function-style cast)

How does one decide which to use in which specific cases?

Q: Find (and kill) processes listening to port 3000 on Mac

How do I manually find (and kill) process using the terminal that listen to/use my TCP ports? I'm on macOS.

Sometimes, after a crash or bug, my Rails app gets locked to port 3000, and I can't find it using ...

When running

I get

The same issue happens when stopping the Node.js process. Even after the process is stopped and the app stops running, port  is locked. When starting the app again, getting

Q: How can I stop EditText from gaining focus when an activity starts in Android?

I have an  in Android, with two elements:

- 

- 

When my  starts, the  immediately has the input focus (flashing cursor). I don't want any control to have input focus at startup. I tried:

But I didn't have any luck. How can I convince the  to not select itself when the  starts?

Q: How do I split a list into equally-sized chunks?

How do I split a list of arbitrary length into equal sized chunks?

See also: How to iterate over a list in chunks.

To chunk strings, see Split string every nth character?.

Q: How to set, clear, and toggle a single bit

How can I set, clear, and toggle a bit?

Q: What is the difference between #include  and #include "filename"?

What is the difference between using angle brackets and quotes in an  directive?

- 

-

Q: Is there an "exists" function for jQuery?

How can I check the existence of an element in jQuery?

The current code that I have is this:

Is there a more elegant way to approach this? Perhaps a plugin or a function?

Q: How can I upload files asynchronously with jQuery?

I would like to upload a file asynchronously with jQuery. 








Instead of the file being uploaded, I am only getting the filename. What can I do to fix this problem?

Q: What is the --save option for npm install?

I saw some tutorial where the command was:

What does the  option mean?

Q: How can I recursively find all files in current and subfolders based on wildcard matching?

How can I recursively find all files in current and subfolders based on wildcard matching?

Q: Is there a standard function to check for null, undefined, or blank variables in JavaScript?

Is there a universal JavaScript function that checks that a variable has a value and ensures that it's not  or ? I've got this code, but I'm not sure if it covers all cases:

Q: How do I pass command line arguments to a Node.js program and receive them?

I have a web server written in Node.js and I would like to launch with a specific folder. I'm not sure how to access arguments in JavaScript. I'm running node like this:

here  is my server code. Node.js help says this is possible:

How would I access those arguments in JavaScript? Somehow I was not able to find this information on the web.

Q: Find the current directory and file's directory

How do I determine:

- the current directory (where I was in the shell when I ran the Python script), and

- where the Python file I am executing is?

Q: What is the difference between the 'COPY' and 'ADD' commands in a Dockerfile?

What is the difference between the  and  commands in a Dockerfile, and when would I use one over the other?

  

The COPY instruction will copy new files from  and add them to the container's filesystem at path 

  

The ADD instruction will copy new files from  and add them to the container's filesystem at path .

Q: Is there a unique Android device ID?

Do Android devices have a unique ID, and if so, what is a simple way to access it using Java?

Q: Deleting an element from an array in PHP

Is there an easy way to delete an element from an array using PHP, such that  no longer includes that element?

I thought that setting it to  would do it, but apparently it does not work.

Q: What is the difference between Python's list methods append and extend?

What's the difference between the list methods  and ?

Q: How can I check for "undefined" in JavaScript?

What is the most appropriate way to test if a variable is undefined in JavaScript?

I've seen several possible ways:

Or

Or

Q: How to store objects in HTML5 localStorage/sessionStorage

I'd like to store a JavaScript object in HTML5 , but my object is apparently being converted to a string.

I can store and retrieve primitive JavaScript types and arrays using , but objects don't seem to work.  Should they?

Here's my code:

The console output is

It looks to me like the  method is converting the input to a string before storing it.

I see this behavior in Safari, Chrome, and Firefox, so I assume it's my misunderstanding of the HTML5 Web Storage specification, not a browser-specific bug or limitation.

I've tried to make sense of the structured clone algorithm described in 2 Common infrastructure.  I don't fully understand what it's saying, but maybe my problem has to do with my object's properties not being enumerable (???).

Is there an easy workaround?

Update: The W3C eventually changed their minds about the structured-clone specification, and decided to change the spec to match the implementations.  See 12111 – spec for Storage object getItem(key) method does not match implementation behavior. So this question is no longer 100% valid, but the answers still may be of interest.

Q: How do I modify the URL without reloading the page?

Is there a way I can modify the URL of the current page without reloading the page?

I would like to access the portion before the # hash if possible.

I only need to change the portion after the domain, so it's not like I'm violating cross-domain policies.

Q: Length of a JavaScript object

I have a JavaScript object. Is there a built-in or accepted best practice way to get the length of this object?

Q: How can I know which radio button is selected via jQuery?

I have two radio buttons and want to post the value of the selected one.
How can I get the value with jQuery?

I can get all of them like this:

How do I know which one is selected?

Q: Find the version of an installed npm package

How can I find the version of an installed Node.js or npm package?

This prints the version of npm itself:

This prints a cryptic error:

This prints the package version on the registry (i.e., the latest version available):

How do I get the installed version?

Q: Renaming column names in Pandas

I want to change the column labels of a Pandas DataFrame from

to

Q: Why is "1000000000000000 in range(1000000000000001)" so fast in Python 3?

It is my understanding that the  function, which is actually an object type in Python 3, generates its contents on the fly, similar to a generator.

This being the case, I would have expected the following line to take an inordinate amount of time because, in order to determine whether 1 quadrillion is in the range, a quadrillion values would have to be generated:

Furthermore: it seems that no matter how many zeroes I add on, the calculation more or less takes the same amount of time (basically instantaneous).

I have also tried things like this, but the calculation is still almost instant:

If I try to implement my own range function, the result is not so nice!

What is the  object doing under the hood that makes it so fast?

Martijn Pieters's answer was chosen for its completeness, but also see abarnert's first answer for a good discussion of what it means for  to be a full-fledged sequence in Python 3, and some information/warning regarding potential inconsistency for  function optimization across Python implementations. abarnert's other answer goes into some more detail and provides links for those interested in the history behind the optimization in Python 3 (and lack of optimization of  in Python 2). Answers by poke and by wim provide the relevant C source code and explanations for those who are interested.

Q: How do I get the current date in JavaScript?

How do I get the current date in JavaScript?

Q: Copying files from Docker container to host

I'm thinking of using Docker to build my dependencies on a Continuous Integration (CI) server, so that I don't have to install all the runtimes and libraries on the agents themselves. 

To achieve this I would need to copy the build artifacts that are built inside the container back into the host. Is that possible?

Q: How do I split a string on a delimiter in Bash?

I have this string stored in a variable:

Now I would like to split the strings by  delimiter so that I have:

I don't necessarily need the  and  variables. If they are elements of an array that's even better.

After suggestions from the answers below, I ended up with the following which is what I was after:

Output:

There was a solution involving setting Internal_field_separator (IFS) to . I am not sure what happened with that answer, how do you reset  back to default?

RE:  solution, I tried this and it works, I keep the old  and then restore it:

BTW, when I tried 

I only got the first string when printing it in loop, without brackets around  it works.

Q: How can I remove a key from a Python dictionary?

I want to remove a key from a dictionary if it is present. I currently use this code:

Without the  statement, the code will raise  if the key is not present. How can I handle this more simply?

See Delete an element from a dictionary for more general approaches to the problem of removing a key from a dict (including ones which produce a modified copy).

Q: How can I transition height: 0; to height: auto; using CSS?

I am trying to make a  slide down using CSS transitions.

The  starts off at . On hover, the height is set to . However, this is causing it to simply appear, not transition,

If I do it from  to , then it will slide up to , and then suddenly jump to the correct height.

How else could I do this without using JavaScript?

Q: PowerShell says "execution of scripts is disabled on this system."

I am trying to run a  file that calls a PowerShell script from , but I am getting this error:

 cannot be loaded because the execution of scripts is disabled on this system.

I ran this command:

When I run  from PowerShell, it returns .

Output:

cd "C:\Projects\Microsoft.Practices.ESB\Source\Samples\Management Portal\Install\Scripts"
powershell .\Management_Install.ps1 1

WARNING: Running x86 PowerShell...

File  cannot be loaded because the execution of scripts is disabled on this system. Please see "" for more details.

At line:1 char:25

- 

 

- 

CategoryInfo          : NotSpecified: (:) [], PSSecurityException

- 

FullyQualifiedErrorId : RuntimeException

C:\Projects\Microsoft.Practices.ESB\Source\Samples\Management Portal\Install\Scripts> PAUSE

Press any key to continue . . .

The system is Windows Server 2008 R2.

What am I doing wrong?

Q: What's the difference between dependencies, devDependencies, and peerDependencies in NPM package.json file?

This documentation answers my question very poorly. I didn't understand those explanations. Can someone say in simpler words? Maybe with examples if it's hard to choose simple words?

Also added , which is closely related and might cause confusion.

Q: Why is printing "B" dramatically slower than printing "#"?

I generated two matrices of  x :

First Matrix:  and .

Second Matrix:  and .

Using the following code, the first matrix took 8.52 seconds to complete:

With this code, the second matrix took 259.152 seconds to complete:

What is the reason behind the dramatically different run times?

As suggested in the comments, printing only  takes  seconds, whereas  gives .

As others pointed out that it works for them normally, I tried Ideone.com for instance, and both pieces of code execute at the same speed.

Test Conditions:

- I ran this test from Netbeans 7.2, with the output into its console

- I used  for measurements

Q: Convert string "Jun 1 2005 1:33PM" into datetime

I have a huge list of datetime strings like the following

How do I convert them into  objects?

Q: How to mkdir only if a directory does not already exist?

I am writing a shell script to run under the KornShell (ksh) on AIX. I would like to use the  command to create a directory. But the directory may already exist, in which case I do not want to do anything. So I want to either test to see that the directory does not exist, or suppress the "File exists" error that  throws when it tries to create an existing directory. 

How can I best do this?

Q: How do I detect a click outside an element?

I have some HTML menus, which I show completely when a user clicks on the head of these menus. I would like to hide these elements when the user clicks outside the menus' area.

Is something like this possible with jQuery?

Q: How do I make Git ignore file mode (chmod) changes?

I have a project in which I have to change the mode of files with  to 777 while developing, but which should not change in the main repo. 

Git picks up on  and marks all files as changed. Is there a way to make Git ignore mode changes that have been made to files?

Q: How do I break a string in YAML over multiple lines?

I have a very long string:

I would like to express it over multiple shorter lines, e.g.,

I would like to use quotes as above, so that I don't need to escape anything within the string.

Q: Open a URL in a new tab (and not a new window)

I'm trying to open a URL in a new tab, as opposed to a popup window.

I've seen related questions where the responses would look something like:

But none of them worked for me, the browser still tried to open a popup window.

Q: I need an unordered list without any bullets

I have created an unordered list. I feel the bullets in the unordered list are bothersome, so I want to remove them. 

Is it possible to have a list without bullets?

Q: How can I update each dependency in package.json to the latest version?

I copied package.json from another project and now want to bump all of the dependencies to their latest versions since this is a fresh project and I don't mind fixing something if it breaks.

What's the easiest way to do this?

The best way I know is to run  and then update each dependency in  manually. There must be a better way.

For Yarn-specific solutions, refer to this Stack Overflow question.

Q: How can I create an executable/runnable JAR with dependencies using Maven?

I want to package my project in a single executable JAR for distribution.

How can I make a Maven project package all dependency JARs into my output JAR?

Q: Encode URL in JavaScript

How do you safely encode a URL using JavaScript such that it can be put into a GET string?

I assume that you need to encode the  variable on that second line?

Q: What are the correct version numbers for C#?

What are the correct version numbers for C#? What came out when? Why can't I find any answers about C# 3.5?

This question is primarily to aid those who are searching for an answer using an incorrect version number, e.g. C# 3.5. The hope is that anyone failing to find an answer with the wrong version number will find this question and then search again with the right version number.

Q: Get all unique values in a JavaScript array (remove duplicates)

I have an array of numbers that I need to make sure are unique. I found the code snippet below on the Internet, and it works great until the array has a zero in it. I found this other script here on Stack Overflow that looks almost exactly like it, but it doesn't fail.

How can I determine where the prototype script is going wrong?

Q: Extract filename and extension in Bash

I want to get the filename (without extension) and the extension separately.

The best solution I found so far is:

This is wrong because it doesn't work if the file name contains multiple  characters. If, let's say, I have , it will consider  and , instead of  and .

It can be easily done in Python with

but I'd prefer not to fire up a Python interpreter just for this, if possible.

Any better ideas?

Q: Determine installed PowerShell version

How can I determine what version of PowerShell is installed on a computer, and indeed if it is installed at all?

Q: Homebrew install specific version of formula

How do I install a specific version of a formula in Homebrew (executable )?

For example, postgresql-8.4.4 instead of the latest 9.0.

Q: Generate a string of random characters

I want a string of fixed length, composed of characters picked randomly from a set of characters e.g. .

How can I do this with JavaScript?

Q: Is there an equivalent of 'which' on the Windows command line?

As I sometimes have path problems, where one of my own cmd scripts is hidden (shadowed) by another program (earlier on the path), I would like to be able to find the full path to a program on the Windows command line, given just its name.

Is there an equivalent to the UNIX command 'which'?

On UNIX,  prints the full path of the given command to easily find and repair these shadowing problems.

Q: How does database indexing work in reality?

Given that indexing is so important, as your data set increases in size, how does indexing work at a database-agnostic level?

For information on queries to index a field, check out How do I index a database column?.

Q: What is the difference between CMD and ENTRYPOINT in a Dockerfile?

In Dockerfiles there are two commands that look similar to me:  and . But I guess that there is a (subtle?) difference between them - otherwise it would not make any sense to have two commands for the very same thing.

The documentation states for -

The main purpose of a CMD is to provide defaults for an executing container.

and for :

An ENTRYPOINT helps you to configure a container that you can run as an executable.

So, what's the difference between those two commands?

Q: Ignore files that have already been committed to a Git repository

I have an already initialized Git repository that I added a  file to. How can I refresh the file index so the files I want ignored get ignored?

Q: How to upgrade all Python packages with pip

Is it possible to upgrade all Python packages at one time with ?

Note: that there is a feature request for this on the official issue tracker.

Q: How to append something to an array?

How do I append an object (such as a string or number) to an array in JavaScript?

Q: Check if a variable is a string in JavaScript

How can I determine whether a variable is a string or something else in JavaScript?

Q: How can I save an activity state using the save instance state?

I've been working on the Android SDK platform, and it is a little unclear how to save an application's state. So given this minor re-tooling of the 'Hello, Android' example:

I thought it would be enough for the simplest case, but it always responds with the first message, no matter how I navigate away from the app.

I'm sure the solution is as simple as overriding  or something like that, but I've been poking away in the documentation for 30 minutes or so and haven't found anything obvious.

Q: See what's in a stash without applying it

How do I see what is inside a stash without actually applying it?

Q: Compare two dates with JavaScript

Can someone suggest a way to compare the values of two dates greater than, less than, and not in the past using JavaScript? The values will be coming from text boxes.

Q: Make a div fill the height of the remaining screen space

I am working on a web application where I want the content to fill the height of the entire screen.

The page has a header, which contains a logo, and account information. This could be an arbitrary height. I want the content div to fill the rest of the page to the bottom.

I have a header  and a content . At the moment I am using a table for the layout like so:

CSS and HTML








The entire height of the page is filled, and no scrolling is required.

For anything inside the content div, setting  will put it right underneath the header. Sometimes the content will be a real table, with its height set to 100%. Putting  inside  will not allow this to work.

Is there a way to achieve the same effect without using the ?

Update:

Elements inside the content  will have heights set to percentages as well. So something at 100% inside the  will fill it to the bottom. As will two elements at 50%.

Update 2:

For instance, if the header takes up 20% of the screen's height, a table specified at 50% inside  would take up 40% of the screen space. So far, wrapping the entire thing in a table is the only thing that works.

Q: How to change the output color of echo in Linux

I am trying to print a text in a red color in the terminal using echo command.

How can I do that?

Q: How can I sort a list of dictionaries by a value of the dictionary in Python?

How do I sort a list of dictionaries by a specific key's value? Given:

When sorted by , it should become:

Q: How to leave/exit/deactivate a Python virtualenv

I'm using virtualenv and the virtualenvwrapper. I can switch between virtualenv's just fine using the  command.

How do I exit all virtual environments and work on my system environment again? Right now, the only way I have of getting back to  is to exit the shell and start a new one. That's kind of annoying. Is there a command to work on "nothing", and if so, what is it? If such a command does not exist, how would I go about creating it?

Q: How do I get a YouTube video thumbnail from the YouTube API?

If I have a YouTube video URL, is there any way to use PHP and cURL to get the associated thumbnail from the YouTube API?

Q: How do I get the hash for the current commit in Git?

How do I get the hash of the current commit in Git?

Q: How do you display code snippets in MS Word preserving format and syntax highlighting?

Does anyone know a way to display code in Microsoft Word documents that preserves coloring and formatting? Preferably, the method would also be unobtrusive and easy to update.

I have tried to include code as regular text which looks awful and gets in the way when editing regular text.  I have also tried inserting objects, a WordPad document and Text Box, into the document then putting the code inside those objects.  The code looks much better and is easier to avoid while editing the rest of the text.  However, these objects can only span one page which makes editing a nightmare when several pages of code need to be added.

Lastly, I know that there are much better editors/formats that have no problem handling this but I am stuck working with MS word.

Q: How can I save username and password in Git?

I want to use a push and pull automatically in Git Extensions, Sourcetree or any other Git GUI without entering my username and password in a prompt, every time.

So how can I save my credentials in Git?

Q: Should I cast the result of malloc (in C)?

In this question, someone suggested in a comment that I should not cast the result of . i.e., I should do this:

rather than:

Why would this be the case?

A: Using the implicit booleanness of the empty  is quite Pythonic.

A: There are 5 6 NINE (or 63*, depending how you count) different ways to write multi-line strings in YAML.
TL;DR

- 

Use  if you want to break a string up for readability but for it to still be treated as a single-line string: interior line breaks will be stripped out, there will only be one line break at the end:

- 

Use  if you want those line breaks to be preserved as  (for instance, embedded markdown with paragraphs).

- 

Use  or  instead if you don't want a line break appended at the end.

- 

Use  if you need to split lines in the middle of words or want to literally type line breaks as :

- 

YAML is crazy.

Block scalar styles (, )

These allow characters such as  and  without escaping, and add a new line () to the end of your string.

 Folded style removes single newlines within the string (but adds one at the end, and converts double newlines to singles):

→ 

Extra leading space is retained and causes extra newlines. See note below.

Advice: Use this. Usually this is what you want.

 Literal style
turns every newline within the string into a literal newline, and adds one at the end:

→ 

Here's the official definition from the YAML Spec 1.2.2

Scalar content can be written in block notation, using a literal style (indicated by “|”) where all line breaks are significant. Alternatively, they can be written with the folded style (denoted by “>”) where each line break is folded to a space unless it ends an empty or a more-indented line.

Advice: Use this for inserting formatted text (especially Markdown) as a value.
Block styles with block chomping indicator (, , , )

You can control the handling of the final new line in the string, and any trailing blank lines () by adding a block chomping indicator character:

- , : "clip": keep the line feed, remove the trailing blank lines.

- , : "strip": remove the line feed, remove the trailing blank lines.

- , : "keep": keep the line feed, keep trailing blank lines.

"Flow" scalar styles (, , )

These have limited escaping, and construct a single-line string with no new line characters. They can begin on the same line as the key, or with additional newlines first, which are stripped. Doubled newline characters become one newline.

plain style (no escaping, no  or  combinations, first character can't be ,  or many other punctuation characters ):

Advice: Avoid. May look convenient, but you're liable to shoot yourself in the foot by accidentally using forbidden punctuation and triggering a syntax error.

double-quoted style ( and  must be escaped by , newlines can be inserted with a literal  sequence, lines can be concatenated without spaces with trailing ):

→ 

Advice: Use in very specific situations. This is the only way you can break a very long token (like a URL) across lines without adding spaces. And maybe adding newlines mid-line is conceivably useful.

single-quoted style (literal  must be doubled, no special characters, possibly useful for expressing strings starting with double quotes):

→ 

Advice: Avoid. Very few benefits, mostly inconvenience.
Block styles with indentation indicators

Just in case the above isn't enough for you, you can add a "block indentation indicator" (after your block chomping indicator, if you have one):

Note: Leading spaces in Folded style ()

If you insert extra spaces at the start of not-the-first lines in Folded style, they will be kept, with a bonus newline. (This doesn't happen with flow styles.) Section 6.5 says:

In addition, folding does not apply to line breaks surrounding text lines that contain leading white space. Note that such a more-indented line may consist only of such leading white space.

→ 
Summary

In this table:  means ,  means "newline character" except were noted. "Leading space" refers to an additional space character on the second line, when the first is only spaces (which establishes the indent).

Spaces/newlines converted to:

Trailing space →
_
_
_
_
_
_

Leading space  →
\n_
\n_
\n_
\n_
\n_
\n_

Single newline →
_
\n
_
\n
_
\n
_
_
_

Double newline →
\n
\n\n
\n
\n\n
\n
\n\n
\n
\n
\n

Final newline  →
\n
\n

\n
\n

Final double newline →
\n
\n

\n\n
\n\n

How to create a literal:

Single quote
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
''

Double quote
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
\"
"

Backslash
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\

Other features

In-line newlines with literal 
🚫
🚫
🚫
🚫
🚫
🚫
🚫
✅
🚫

Spaceless newlines with 
🚫
🚫
🚫
🚫
🚫
🚫
🚫
✅
🚫

 or  in value
✅
✅
✅
✅
✅
✅
🚫
✅
✅

Can start on same  
 line as key
🚫
🚫
🚫
🚫
🚫
🚫
✅
✅
✅

Examples

Note the trailing spaces on the line before "spaces."

2 block styles, each with 2 possible block chomping indicators (or none), and with 9 possible indentation indicators (or none), 1 plain style and 2 quoted styles: 2 x (2 + 1) x (9 + 1) + 1 + 2 = 63

Some of this information has also been summarised here.

A: appends a single object at the end of the list:

 appends multiple objects that are taken from inside the specified iterable:

A: Sure the code does work, but I'm pretty sure it doesn't do what you expect it to do. It just fires off multiple asynchronous calls, but the  function does immediately return after that.

Reading in sequence

If you want to read the files in sequence, you cannot use  indeed. Just use a modern  loop instead, in which  will work as expected:

Reading in parallel

If you want to read the files in parallel, you cannot use  indeed. Each of the  callback function calls does return a promise, but you're throwing them away instead of awaiting them. Just use  instead, and you can await the array of promises that you'll get with :

A: You can just check if the variable has a  value or not. That means

will evaluate to  if  is not:

- null

- undefined

- NaN

- empty string ("")

- 0

- false

The above list represents all possible  values in ECMA-/Javascript. Find it in the specification at the  section.

Furthermore, if you do not know whether a variable exists (that means, if it was declared) you should check with the  operator. For instance

If you can be sure that a variable is declared at least, you should directly check if it has a  value like shown above.

A: Use the  operator to combine the lists:

Output:

NOTE: This will create a new list with a shallow copy of the items in the first list, followed by a shallow copy of the items in the second list. Use copy.deepcopy() to get deep copies of lists.

A: Each YouTube video has four generated images. They are predictably formatted as follows:

The first one in the list is a full size image and others are thumbnail images. The default thumbnail image (i.e., one of , , ) is:

For the high quality version of the thumbnail use a URL similar to this:

There is also a medium quality version of the thumbnail, using a URL similar to the HQ:

For the standard definition version of the thumbnail, use a URL similar to this:

For the maximum resolution version of the thumbnail use a URL similar to this:

All of the above URLs are available over HTTP too. Additionally, the slightly shorter hostname  works in place of  in the example URLs above.

Alternatively, you can use the YouTube Data API (v3) to get thumbnail images.

A: The keys need to be read-writable only by you:

Alternatively, the keys can be only readable by you (this also blocks your write access):

 appears to be better in most cases, because you don't need to change file permissions later to edit it. (See the comments for more nuances)

The relevant portion from the manpage ()

A: Use the  method to append values to the end of an array:







You can use the  function to append more than one value to an array in a single call:







Note that the  method returns the updated length of the array.

Update

If you want to add the items of one array to another array, you can use :







Update

Just an addition to this answer if you want to prepend any value to the start of an array (i.e. first index) then you can use  for this purpose.







It also supports appending multiple values at once just like .

Update

Another way with ES6 syntax is to return a new array with the spread syntax. This leaves the original array unchanged, but returns a new array with new items appended or prepended, compliant with the spirit of functional programming.

A: Interactive rebase off of a point earlier in the history than the commit you need to modify (). In the list of commits being rebased, change the text from  to  next to the hash of the one you want to modify. Then when git prompts you to change the commit, use this:

For example, if your commit history is  with  as , and you want to change the author of  and , then you would...

- Specify  (here is an example of what you will see after executing the  command)

- if you need to edit , use 

- Change the lines for both  and  from  to 

- Exit the editor (for vim, this would be pressing Esc and then typing ).

- Once the rebase started, it would first pause at 

- You would 

- Then 

- It would pause again at 

- Then you would  again

- 

- The rebase would complete.

- Use  to update your origin with the updated commits.

A: For macOS El Capitan and newer (or if your netstat doesn't support ), use :

Alternatively, you can use :

Once you have the PID (Process ID) use:

A: Try:

From git-config(1):

The  flag can be used to set this option for one-off commands:

Typing the  can be bothersome and so you can set this flag for all Git repositories or just for one Git repository:

Additionally,  and  explicitly set  to  in the repository configuration as discussed in Git global core.fileMode false overridden locally on clone.
Warning

 is not the best practice and should be used carefully. This setting only covers the executable bit of mode and never the read/write bits. In many cases, you think you need this setting, because you did something like , making all your files executable. But in most projects, most files don't need and should not be executable for security reasons.

The proper way to solve this kind of situation is to handle folder and file permission separately, with something like:

If you do that, you'll never need to use , except in very rare environments.

A: If you are not into long explanations, see Paolo Bergantino’s answer.
Decorator Basics
Python’s functions are objects

To understand decorators, you must first understand that functions are objects in Python. This has important consequences. Let’s see why with a simple example :

Keep this in mind. We’ll circle back to it shortly.

Another interesting property of Python functions is they can be defined inside another function!

Functions references

Okay, still here? Now the fun part...

You’ve seen that functions are objects. Therefore, functions:

- can be assigned to a variable

- can be defined in another function

That means that a function can  another function.

There’s more!

If you can  a function, you can pass one as a parameter:

Well, you just have everything needed to understand decorators. You see, decorators are “wrappers”, which means that they let you execute code before and after the function they decorate without modifying the function itself.
Handcrafted decorators

How you’d do it manually:

Now, you probably want that every time you call ,  is called instead. That’s easy, just overwrite  with the function returned by :

Decorators demystified

The previous example, using the decorator syntax:

Yes, that’s all, it’s that simple.  is just a shortcut to:

Decorators are just a pythonic variant of the decorator design pattern. There are several classic design patterns embedded in Python to ease development (like iterators).

Of course, you can accumulate decorators:

Using the Python decorator syntax:

The order you set the decorators MATTERS:

Now: to answer the question...

As a conclusion, you can easily see how to answer the question:

You can now just leave happy, or burn your brain a little bit more and see advanced uses of decorators.

Taking decorators to the next level
Passing arguments to the decorated function

Decorating methods

One nifty thing about Python is that methods and functions are really the same.  The only difference is that methods expect that their first argument is a reference to the current object ().

That means you can build a decorator for methods the same way! Just remember to take  into consideration:

If you’re making general-purpose decorator--one you’ll apply to any function or method, no matter its arguments--then just use :

Passing arguments to the decorator

Great, now what would you say about passing arguments to the decorator itself?

This can get somewhat twisted, since a decorator must accept a function as an argument. Therefore, you cannot pass the decorated function’s arguments directly to the decorator.

Before rushing to the solution, let’s write a little reminder:

It’s exactly the same. "" is called. So when you , you are telling Python to call the function 'labelled by the variable ""'.

This is important! The label you give can point directly to the decorator—or not.

Let’s get evil. ☺

No surprise here.

Let’s do EXACTLY the same thing, but skip all the pesky intermediate variables:

Let’s make it even shorter:

Hey, did you see that? We used a function call with the "" syntax! :-)

So, back to decorators with arguments. If we can use functions to generate the decorator on the fly, we can pass arguments to that function, right?

Here it is: a decorator with arguments. Arguments can be set as variable:

As you can see, you can pass arguments to the decorator like any function using this trick. You can even use  if you wish. But remember decorators are called only once. Just when Python imports the script. You can't dynamically set the arguments afterwards. When you do "import x", the function is already decorated, so you can't
change anything.

Let’s practice: decorating a decorator

Okay, as a bonus, I'll give you a snippet to make any decorator accept generically any argument. After all, in order to accept arguments, we created our decorator using another function.

We wrapped the decorator.

Anything else we saw recently that wrapped function?

Oh yes, decorators!

Let’s have some fun and write a decorator for the decorators:

It can be used as follows:

I know, the last time you had this feeling, it was after listening a guy saying: "before understanding recursion, you must first understand recursion". But now, don't you feel good about mastering this?

Best practices: decorators

- Decorators were introduced in Python 2.4, so be sure your code will be run on >= 2.4.

- Decorators slow down the function call. Keep that in mind.

- You cannot un-decorate a function. (There are hacks to create decorators that can be removed, but nobody uses them.) So once a function is decorated, it’s decorated for all the code.

- Decorators wrap functions, which can make them hard to debug.  (This gets better from Python >= 2.5; see below.)

The  module was introduced in Python 2.5. It includes the function , which copies the name, module, and docstring of the decorated function to its wrapper.

(Fun fact:  is a decorator! ☺)

How can the decorators be useful?

Now the big question: What can I use decorators for?

Seem cool and powerful, but a practical example would be great. Well, there are 1000 possibilities. Classic uses are extending a function behavior from an external lib (you can't modify it), or for debugging (you don't want to modify it because it’s temporary).

You can use them to extend several functions in a DRY’s way, like so:

Of course the good thing with decorators is that you can use them right away on almost anything without rewriting. DRY, I said:

Python itself provides several decorators: , , etc.

- Django uses decorators to manage caching and view permissions.

- Twisted to fake inlining asynchronous functions calls.

This really is a large playground.

A: Try :

Note that this will also create any intermediate directories that don't exist; for instance,

will create directories , , and  if they don't exist.

Some implementation like GNU  include  as a more readable alias, but this is not specified in POSIX/Single Unix Specification and not available on many common platforms like macOS, various BSDs, and various commercial Unixes, so it should be avoided.

If you want an error when parent directories don't exist, and want to create the directory if it doesn't exist, then you can  for the existence of the directory first:

A: To get the full path to the directory a Python file is contained in, write this in that file:

(Note that the incantation above won't work if you've already used  to change your current working directory, since the value of the  constant is relative to the current working directory and is not changed by an  call.)

To get the current working directory use 

Documentation references for the modules, constants and functions used above:

- The  and  modules.

- The  constant

-  (returns "the canonical path of the specified filename, eliminating any symbolic links encountered in the path")

-  (returns "the directory name of pathname ")

-  (returns "a string representing the current working directory")

-  ("change the current working directory to ")

A: In order to copy a file from a container to the host, you can use the command

Here's an example:

Here goofy_roentgen is the container name I got from the following command:

You can also use (part of) the Container ID. The following command is equivalent to the first

A: To untrack a single file that has already been added/initialized to your repository, i.e., stop tracking the file but not delete it from your system use: 

To untrack every file that is now in your :

First commit any outstanding code changes, and then, run this command:

This removes any changed files from the index(staging area), then just run:

Commit it:

To undo , use .

Make sure to commit all your important changes before running 
Otherwise, you will lose any changes to other files.

Please be careful, when you push this to a repository and pull from somewhere else into a state where those files are still tracked, the files will be DELETED

To remove all files that do not match the paths listed in some path spec file (something that has the same format as a .gitignore file):

Note: unlike , which can have new lines,  cannot have new lines because  will complain about empty patterns not being valid path spec items.

Explanation:

- : to allow recursive removal when directories are involved

- : path to file containing the path specifications for files to be removed

- : tell  to ignore any path specifications that do not have a matching cache hit (otherwise it will abort with an error on that path spec)

A: To delete a key regardless of whether it is in the dictionary, use the two-argument form of :

This will return  if  exists in the dictionary, and  otherwise. If the second parameter is not specified (i.e. ) and  does not exist, a  is raised.

To delete a key that is guaranteed to exist, you can also use

This will raise a  if the key is not in the dictionary.

A: With JavaScript 1.6 / ECMAScript 5 you can use the native  method of an Array in the following way to get an array with unique values:







The native method  will loop through the array and leave only those entries that pass the given callback function .

 checks, if the given value is the first occurring. If not, it must be a duplicate and will not be copied.

This solution works without any extra library like jQuery or prototype.js.

It works for arrays with mixed value types too.

For old Browsers (filter and indexOf.

If you want to keep the last occurrence of a value, simply replace  with .

With ES6 this can be shorten to:







Thanks to Camilo Martin for hint in comment.

ES6 has a native object  to store unique values. To get an array with unique values you could now do this:







The constructor of  takes an iterable object, like an Array, and the spread operator  transform the set back into an Array. Thanks to Lukas Liese for hint in comment.

A: Rename Specific Columns

Use the  function and refer the columns to be renamed. Not all the columns have to be renamed:

Minimal Code Example

The following methods all work and produce the same output:

Remember to assign the result back, as the modification is not-inplace. Alternatively, specify :

You can specify  to raise errors if an invalid column-to-rename is specified.

Reassign Column Headers

Use  with .

Headers can be assigned directly:

A: Answer

POSIX compatible:

Example use:

For Bash specific environments:

Explanation

Avoid . Not only is it an external process you're launching for doing very little (meaning builtins like ,  or  are way cheaper), you can also rely on the builtins to actually do what you want, while the effects of external commands can easily vary from system to system.

Why care?

- Many operating systems have a  that doesn't even set an exit status, meaning the  won't even work there and will always report that  exists, even if it doesn't (note that some POSIX shells appear to do this for  too).

- Many operating systems make  do custom and evil stuff like change the output or even hook into the package manager.

So, don't use . Instead use one of these:

(Minor side-note: some will suggest  is the same  but shorter – this is untrue.   closes FD 2 which causes an error in the program when it tries to write to stderr, which is very different from successfully writing to it and discarding the output (and dangerous!))

(Additional minor side-note: some will suggest , but this is not POSIX compliant)

If your hash bang is  then you should care about what POSIX says.  and 's exit codes aren't terribly well defined by POSIX, and  is seen to exit successfully when the command doesn't exist (haven't seen this with  yet).  's exit status is well defined by POSIX, so that one is probably the safest to use.

If your script uses  though, POSIX rules don't really matter anymore and both  and  become perfectly safe to use.  now has a  to search just the  and  has the side-effect that the command's location will be hashed (for faster lookup next time you use it), which is usually a good thing since you probably check for its existence in order to actually use it.

As a simple example, here's a function that runs  if it exists, otherwise :

A: Attention:

This method saves the credentials in plaintext on your PC's disk. Everyone on your computer can access it, e.g. malicious NPM modules.

Run:

then:

provide a username and password and those details will then be remembered later. The credentials are stored in a file on the disk, with the disk permissions of "just user readable/writable" but still in plaintext.

If you want to change the password later:

Will fail, because the password is incorrect, git then removes the offending user+password from the  file, so now re-run:

to provide a new password so it works as earlier.

A: Usually, activating a virtualenv gives you a shell function named:

which puts things back to normal.

I have just looked specifically again at the code for , and, yes, it too supports  as the way to escape from all virtualenvs.

If you are trying to leave an Anaconda environment, the command depends upon your version of . Recent versions (like 4.6) install a  function directly in your shell, in which case you run:

Older conda versions instead implement deactivation using a stand-alone script:

A: First, get file name without the path:

Alternatively, you can focus on the last '/' of the path instead of the '.' which should work even if you have unpredictable file extensions:

You may want to check the documentation :

- On the web at section "3.5.3 Shell Parameter Expansion"

- In the bash manpage at section called "Parameter Expansion"

A: Option A:

Ergo, for  use:

Option B:

Move the  folder, too. Note that the  folder is hidden in most graphical file explorers, so be sure to show hidden files.

The first line grabs all normal files, the second line grabs dot-files. It is also possibe to do it in one line by enabling dotglob (i.e. ) but that is probably a bad solution if you are asking the question this answer answers.

Better yet:

Keep your working copy somewhere else, and create a symbolic link. Like this:

For your case this would be something like:

Which easily could be changed to test if you wanted it, i.e.:

without moving files around. Added  in case someone is copying these lines ( is force,   avoid some often unwanted interactions with already and non-existing links).

If you just want it to work, use Option A, if someone else is going to look at what you have done, use Option C.

A: Here's a generator that yields evenly-sized chunks:

For Python 2, using  instead of :

Below is a list comprehension one-liner. The method above is preferable, though, since using named functions makes code easier to understand. For Python 3:

For Python 2:

A: Use :

 needs a starting point, so the  (dot) points to the current directory.

If you need case insensitive search use :

A: parses an input string in the user-specified format into a timezone-naive  object:

To obtain a  object using an existing  object, convert it using :

Links:

- 

 docs: Python 2, Python 3

- 

/ format string docs: Python 2, Python 3

- 

strftime.org format string cheatsheet

Notes:

-  = "string parse time"

-  = "string format time"

A: Setting a bit

Use the bitwise OR operator () to set th bit of  to .

Note that it's undefined behavior to shift by more than the width of a . The same applies to all remaining examples.
Clearing a bit

Use the bitwise AND operator () to set the th bit of  to .

You must invert the bit string with the bitwise NOT operator (), then AND it.
Toggling a bit

Use the bitwise XOR operator () to toggle the th bit of .

Checking a bit

You didn't ask for this, but I might as well add it.

To check a bit, shift   to the right, then bitwise AND it:

Changing the nth bit to x

There are alternatives with worse codegen, but the best way is to clear the bit like in , then set the bit to value, similar to .

All solutions have been tested to provide optimal codegen with GCC and clang. See https://godbolt.org/z/Wfzh8xsjW.

A: The following CSS rule disables resizing behavior for  elements:

To disable it for some (but not all) s, there are a couple of options.

You can use  attribute in your tag():

To disable a specific  with the  attribute set to  (i.e., ):

Or, using an  attribute (i.e., ):

The W3C page lists possible values for resizing restrictions: none, both, horizontal, vertical, and inherit:

Review a decent compatibility page to see what browsers currently support this feature. As Jon Hulka has commented, the dimensions can be further restrained in CSS using max-width, max-height, min-width, and min-height.

Super important to know:

This property does nothing unless the overflow property is something other than visible, which is the default for most elements. So generally to use this, you'll have to set something like overflow: scroll;

Quote by Sara Cope,
http://css-tricks.com/almanac/properties/r/resize/

A: Update: Using Git Switch

All of the information written below was accurate, but a new command,  has been added that simplifies the effort.

If  exists on the remote repository, but not on your local branch, you can simply type:

Since you do not have the branch locally, this will automatically make  look on the remote repo.  It will then also automatically set up remote branch tracking.
Original Post

You need to create a local branch that tracks a remote branch. The following command will create a local branch named daves_branch, tracking the remote branch origin/daves_branch. When you push your changes the remote branch will be updated.

For most recent versions of Git:

 is shorthand for  where [remotename] is origin in this case and [branch] is twice the same, daves_branch in this case.

For Git 1.5.6.5 you needed this:

For Git 1.7.2.3 and higher, this is enough (it might have started earlier, but this is the earliest confirmation I could find quickly):

Note that with recent Git versions, this command will not create a local branch and will put you in a 'detached HEAD' state. If you want a local branch, use the  option.

Full details are here: 3.5 Git Branching - Remote Branches, Tracking Branches

A: How do I manually throw/raise an exception in Python?

Use the most specific Exception constructor that semantically fits your issue.

Be specific in your message, e.g.:

Don't raise generic exceptions

Avoid raising a generic . To catch it, you'll have to catch all other more specific exceptions that subclass it.
Problem 1: Hiding bugs

For example:

Problem 2: Won't catch

And more specific catches won't catch the general exception:

Best Practices:  statement

Instead, use the most specific Exception constructor that semantically fits your issue.

which also handily allows an arbitrary number of arguments to be passed to the constructor:

These arguments are accessed by the  attribute on the  object. For example:

prints

In Python 2.5, an actual  attribute was added to  in favor of encouraging users to subclass Exceptions and stop using , but the introduction of  and the original deprecation of args has been retracted.
Best Practices:  clause

When inside an except clause, you might want to, for example, log that a specific type of error happened, and then re-raise. The best way to do this while preserving the stack trace is to use a bare raise statement. For example:

Don't modify your errors... but if you insist.

You can preserve the stacktrace (and error value) with , but this is way more error prone and has compatibility problems between Python 2 and 3, prefer to use a bare  to re-raise.

To explain - the  returns the type, value, and traceback.

This is the syntax in Python 2 - note this is not compatible with Python 3:

If you want to, you can modify what happens with your new raise - e.g. setting new  for the instance:

And we have preserved the whole traceback while modifying the args. Note that this is not a best practice and it is invalid syntax in Python 3 (making keeping compatibility much harder to work around).

In Python 3:

Again: avoid manually manipulating tracebacks. It's less efficient and more error prone. And if you're using threading and  you may even get the wrong traceback (especially if you're using exception handling for control flow - which I'd personally tend to avoid.)
Python 3, Exception chaining

In Python 3, you can chain Exceptions, which preserve tracebacks:

Be aware:

- this does allow changing the error type raised, and

- this is not compatible with Python 2.

Deprecated Methods:

These can easily hide and even get into production code. You want to raise an exception, and doing them will raise an exception, but not the one intended!

Valid in Python 2, but not in Python 3 is the following:

Only valid in much older versions of Python (2.4 and lower), you may still see people raising strings:

In all modern versions, this will actually raise a , because you're not raising a  type. If you're not checking for the right exception and don't have a reviewer that's aware of the issue, it could get into production.
Example Usage

I raise Exceptions to warn consumers of my API if they're using it incorrectly:

Create your own error types when apropos

"I want to make an error on purpose, so that it would go into the except"

You can create your own error types, if you want to indicate something specific is wrong with your application, just subclass the appropriate point in the exception hierarchy:

and usage:

A: To get the value of the selected  item of a form with id :

Here's an example:

A: Pure speculation is that you're using a terminal that attempts to do word-wrapping rather than character-wrapping, and treats  as a word character but  as a non-word character. So when it reaches the end of a line and searches for a place to break the line, it sees a  almost immediately and happily breaks there; whereas with the , it has to keep searching for longer, and may have more text to wrap (which may be expensive on some terminals, e.g., outputting backspaces, then outputting spaces to overwrite the letters being wrapped).

But that's pure speculation.

A: You can remove bullets by setting the  to  on the CSS for the parent element (typically a ), for example:

You might also want to add  and  to that if you want to remove indentation as well.

See Listutorial for a great walkthrough of list formatting techniques.

A: Syntax:

Example:

Notes:

Optional Constraint Name:

If you leave out  then SQL Server will autogenerate

    a Default-Contraint with a funny Name like: 

Optional With-Values Statement:

The  is only needed when your Column is Nullable

    and you want the Default Value used for Existing Records.

If your Column is , then it will automatically use the Default Value

    for all Existing Records, whether you specify  or not.

How Inserts work with a Default-Constraint:

If you insert a Record into  and do not Specify 's value, then it will Default to .

If you insert a Record and Specify 's value as  (and your column allows nulls),

    then the Default-Constraint will not be used and  will be inserted as the Value.

Notes were based on everyone's great feedback below.

Special Thanks to:

    @Yatrix, @WalterStabosz, @YahooSerious, and @StackMan for their Comments.

A: Why is it needed?

When data is stored on disk-based storage devices, it is stored as blocks of data. These blocks are accessed in their entirety, making them the atomic disk access operation. Disk blocks are structured in much the same way as linked lists; both contain a section for data, a pointer to the location of the next node (or block), and both need not be stored contiguously.

Due to the fact that a number of records can only be sorted on one field, we can state that searching on a field that isn’t sorted requires a Linear Search which requires  block accesses (on average), where  is the number of blocks that the table spans. If that field is a non-key field (i.e. doesn’t contain unique entries) then the entire tablespace must be searched at  block accesses.

Whereas with a sorted field, a Binary Search may be used, which has  block accesses. Also since the data is sorted given a non-key field, the rest of the table doesn’t need to be searched for duplicate values, once a higher value is found. Thus the performance increase is substantial.

What is indexing?

Indexing is a way of sorting a number of records on multiple fields. Creating an index on a field in a table creates another data structure which holds the field value, and a pointer to the record it relates to. This index structure is then sorted, allowing Binary Searches to be performed on it.

The downside to indexing is that these indices require additional space on the disk since the indices are stored together in a table using the MyISAM engine, this file can quickly reach the size limits of the underlying file system if many fields within the same table are indexed.

How does it work?

Firstly, let’s outline a sample database table schema;

Note: char was used in place of varchar to allow for an accurate size on disk value.

This sample database contains five million rows and is unindexed. The performance of several queries will now be analyzed. These are a query using the id (a sorted key field) and one using the firstName (a non-key unsorted field).

Example 1 - sorted vs unsorted fields

Given our sample database of  records of a fixed size giving a record length of  bytes and they are stored in a table using the MyISAM engine which is using the default block size  bytes. The blocking factor of the table would be  records per disk block. The total number of blocks required to hold the table is  blocks.

A linear search on the id field would require an average of  block accesses to find a value, given that the id field is a key field. But since the id field is also sorted, a binary search can be conducted requiring an average of  block accesses. Instantly we can see this is a drastic improvement.

Now the firstName field is neither sorted nor a key field, so a binary search is impossible, nor are the values unique, and thus the table will require searching to the end for an exact  block accesses. It is this situation that indexing aims to correct.

Given that an index record contains only the indexed field and a pointer to the original record, it stands to reason that it will be smaller than the multi-field record that it points to. So the index itself requires fewer disk blocks than the original table, which therefore requires fewer block accesses to iterate through. The schema for an index on the firstName field is outlined below;

Note: Pointers in MySQL are 2, 3, 4 or 5 bytes in length depending on the size of the table.

Example 2  - indexing

Given our sample database of  records with an index record length of  bytes and using the default block size  bytes. The blocking factor of the index would be  records per disk block. The total number of blocks required to hold the index is  blocks.

Now a search using the firstName field can utilize the index to increase performance. This allows for a binary search of the index with an average of  block accesses. To find the address of the actual record, which requires a further block access to read, bringing the total to  block accesses, a far cry from the 1,000,000 block accesses required to find a firstName match in the non-indexed table.

When should it be used?

Given that creating an index requires additional disk space (277,778 blocks extra from the above example, a ~28% increase), and that too many indices can cause issues arising from the file systems size limits, careful thought must be used to select the correct fields to index.

Since indices are only used to speed up the searching for a matching field within the records, it stands to reason that indexing fields used only for output would be simply a waste of disk space and processing time when doing an insert or delete operation, and thus should be avoided. Also given the nature of a binary search, the cardinality or uniqueness of the data is important. Indexing on a field with a cardinality of 2 would split the data in half, whereas a cardinality of 1,000 would return approximately 1,000 records. With such a low cardinality the effectiveness is reduced to a linear sort, and the query optimizer will avoid using the index if the cardinality is less than 30% of the record number, effectively making the index a waste of space.

A: To turn any extended object reference into a hash, use :

or

As noted by Alexander's answer, you can also retrieve the short hash:

To turn references (e.g. branches and tags) into hashes, use  and .

A: Use .

 is a branch name, a commit hash, or a shorthand symbolic reference.

Examples:

That will produce the diff between the tips of the two branches. If you'd prefer to find the changes that occurred in the common ancestor since the branch was started off, you can use three dots instead of two:

To check which files differ, not how the content differs, use :

Note that in the  (two dot) syntax, the dots are optional; the following is synonymous:

A: From  (which can also be obtained via ):

The modifications stashed away by this command can be listed with , inspected with , and ...

Note: the  option generates a patch, as per  documentation.

List the stashes:

Show the files in the most recent stash:

Show the changes of the most recent stash:

Show the changes of the named stash:

Or in short:

If you want to view changes of only the last stash:

A: Use  to determine the engine version. If the variable does not exist, it is safe to assume the engine is version .

Note that  and  are not reliable - they reflect
the version of the host only, not the engine. PowerGUI,
PowerShellPLUS, etc. are all hosting applications, and
they will set the host's version to reflect their product
version &mdash; which is entirely correct, but not what you're looking for.

A: You can use these ANSI escape codes:

And then use them like this in your script:

which prints  in red.

From @james-lim's comment, if you are using the  command, be sure to use the  flag to allow backslash escapes.

Note: Don't add  when using  unless you want to add an additional empty line.

A: Looking at the Apple, Mozilla and Mozilla again documentation, the functionality seems to be limited to handle only string key/value pairs.

A workaround can be to stringify your object before storing it, and later parse it when you retrieve it:

A: File descriptor 1 is the standard output ().

File descriptor 2 is the standard error ().

At first,  may look like a good way to redirect  to . However, it will actually be interpreted as "redirect  to a file named ".

 indicates that what follows and precedes is a file descriptor, and not a filename. Thus, we use . Consider  to be a redirect merger operator.

A: Standard Method (no library)

The arguments are stored in 

Here are the node docs on handling command line args:

  

 is an array containing the command line arguments. The first element will be 'node', the second element will be the name of the JavaScript file. The next elements will be any additional command line arguments.

This will generate:

A: I think this will work for you:

A: The  function takes a  parameter

Alternatively, you can use  instead of defining the function yourself

For completeness, add  to sort in descending order

A: Use  in the transition and not . And set a value on  to something bigger than your box will ever get.

See JSFiddle demo provided by Chris Jordan in another answer here.

A: If you're using Windows Server 2008 R2 then there is an x64 and x86 version of PowerShell both of which have to have their execution policies set. Did you set the execution policy on both hosts?

As an Administrator, you can set the execution policy by typing this into your PowerShell window:

For more information, see Using the Set-ExecutionPolicy Cmdlet.

When you are done, you can set the policy back to its default value with:

You may see an error:

So you may need to run the command like this (as seen in comments):

A: There are different ways to delete an array element, where some are more useful for some specific tasks than others.
Deleting a Single Array Element

If you want to delete just one single array element you can use  and alternatively .
By key or by value?

If you know the value and don't know the key to delete the element you can use  to get the key.
This only works if the element doesn't occur more than once, since  returns the first hit only.
 Expression

Note: When you use  the array keys won’t change.
If you want to reindex the keys you can use  after ,
which will convert all keys to numerically enumerated keys starting from 0
(the array remains a list).

Example Code:

Example Output:

 Function

If you use  the (integer) keys will automatically be reindex-ed,
but the associative (string) keys won't change — as opposed to  after ,
which will convert all keys to numerical keys.

Note: 
needs the offset, not the key, as the second parameter; offset arraykey.

Example Code:

Example Output:

, same as , take the array by reference. You don’t assign the return values back to the array.
Deleting Multiple Array Elements

If you want to delete multiple array elements and don’t want
to call  or  multiple times you can use the functions  or
 depending on whether you know the values or the keys of the elements to remove from the array.
 Function

If you know the values of the array elements which you want to delete, then you can use .
As before with  it won’t change the keys of the array.

Example Code:

Example Output:

 Function

If you know the keys of the elements which you want to delete, then you want to use .
You have to make sure you pass the keys as keys in the second parameter and not as values.
Keys won’t reindex.

Example Code:

Example Output:

If you want to use  or  to delete multiple elements with the same value you can use
 to get all the keys for a specific value
and then delete all elements.
 Function

If you want to delete all elements with a specific value in the array you can use .

Example Code:

Example Output:

A: It looks like npm-check-updates is the only way to make this happen now.

Or using npx (so you don't have to install a global package):

On npm 

Simply change every dependency's version to , then run .  (Note: broken in recent (3.11) versions of npm).

Before:

After:

Of course, this is the blunt hammer of updating dependencies.  It's fine if—as you said—the project is empty and nothing can break.

On the other hand, if you're working in a more mature project, you probably want to verify that there are no breaking changes in your dependencies before upgrading.

To see which modules are outdated, just run .  It will list any installed dependencies that have newer versions available.

For Yarn specific solution, refer to this Stack Overflow answer.

A: Update npm 5:

As of npm 5.0.0, installed modules are added as a dependency by default, so the  option is no longer needed. The other save options still exist and are listed in the documentation for .

Original answer:

Before version 5, NPM simply installed a package under  by default. When you were trying to install dependencies for your app/module, you would need to first install them, and then add them (along with the appropriate version number) to the  section of your .

The  option instructed NPM to include the package inside of the  section of your  automatically, thus saving you an additional step.

In addition, there are the complementary options  and  which save the package under  and , respectively. This is useful when installing development-only packages, like  or your testing library.

A: Arguments are passed by assignment. The rationale behind this is twofold:

- the parameter passed in is actually a reference to an object (but the reference is passed by value)

- some data types are mutable, but others aren't

So:

- 

If you pass a mutable object into a method, the method gets a reference to that same object and you can mutate it to your heart's delight, but if you rebind the reference in the method, the outer scope will know nothing about it, and after you're done, the outer reference will still point at the original object. 

- 

If you pass an immutable object to a method, you still can't rebind the outer reference, and you can't even mutate the object.

To make it even more clear, let's have some examples. 

List - a mutable type

Let's try to modify the list that was passed to a method:

Output:

Since the parameter passed in is a reference to , not a copy of it, we can use the mutating list methods to change it and have the changes reflected in the outer scope.

Now let's see what happens when we try to change the reference that was passed in as a parameter:

Output:

Since the  parameter was passed by value, assigning a new list to it had no effect that the code outside the method could see. The  was a copy of the  reference, and we had  point to a new list, but there was no way to change where  pointed.

String - an immutable type

It's immutable, so there's nothing we can do to change the contents of the string

Now, let's try to change the reference

Output:

Again, since the  parameter was passed by value, assigning a new string to it had no effect that the code outside the method could see. The  was a copy of the  reference, and we had  point to a new string, but there was no way to change where  pointed.

I hope this clears things up a little.

EDIT: It's been noted that this doesn't answer the question that @David originally asked, "Is there something I can do to pass the variable by actual reference?". Let's work on that.

How do we get around this?

As @Andrea's answer shows, you could return the new value. This doesn't change the way things are passed in, but does let you get the information you want back out:

If you really wanted to avoid using a return value, you could create a class to hold your value and pass it into the function or use an existing class, like a list:

Although this seems a little cumbersome.

A: Find the last commit that affected the given path. As the file isn't in the HEAD commit, that previous commit must have deleted it.

Then checkout the version at the commit before, using the caret () symbol:

Or in one command, if  is the file in question.

If you are using zsh and have the EXTENDED_GLOB option enabled, the caret symbol won't work. You can use  instead.

A: This delays for 2.5 seconds:

Here is another example where something is run approximately once a minute:

A: Use  for local packages or  for globally installed packages.

You can find the version of a specific package by passing its name as an argument. For example,  will result in:

Alternatively, you can just run  without passing a package name as an argument to see the versions of all your packages:

You can also add  argument to list installed packages without their dependencies.

A: Use  to generate a new  object containing the current date and time.







This will give you today's date in the format of mm/dd/yyyy.

Simply change  to whatever format you wish.

A: Updated answer

Here's an update as of 2016 and widespread deployment of ES5 and beyond.  For IE9+ and all other modern ES5+ capable browsers, you can use  so the above code just becomes:

This doesn't have to modify any existing prototype since  is now built-in.

Edit: Objects can have symbolic properties that can not be returned via Object.key method. So the answer would be incomplete without mentioning them.

Symbol type was added to the language to create unique identifiers for object properties. The main benefit of the Symbol type is the prevention of overwrites.

 or  does not work for symbolic properties. To return them you need to use .







Older answer

The most robust answer (i.e. that captures the intent of what you're trying to do while causing the fewest bugs) would be:







There's a sort of convention in JavaScript that you don't add things to Object.prototype, because it can break enumerations in various libraries. Adding methods to Object is usually safe, though.

A: The Date object will do what you want - construct one for each date, then compare them using the , ,  or .

The , , , and  operators require you to use  as in

to be clear just checking for equality directly with the date objects won't work

I suggest you use drop-downs or some similar constrained form of date entry rather than text boxes, though, lest you find yourself in input validation hell.

For the curious,  documentation:

Returns the numeric value of the specified date as the number of milliseconds since January 1, 1970, 00:00:00 UTC. (Negative values are returned for prior times.)

A: Find:

Kill:

PLEASE NOTE:  kills the process immediately, and gives it no chance of cleaning up after itself. This may cause problems. Consider using  (TERM) or  (QUIT) for a softer termination which allows the process to clean up after itself.

A: Summary of important behavior differences:

- 

 are installed on both:

-  from a directory that contains 

-  on any other directory

- 

 are:

- also installed on  on a directory that contains , unless you pass the  flag (go upvote Gayan Charith's answer), or if the  environment variable is set

- not installed on  on any other directory, unless you give it the  option.

- are not installed transitively.

- 

:

- before 3.0: are always installed if missing, and raise an error if multiple incompatible versions of the dependency would be used by different dependencies.

- expected to start on 3.0 (untested): give a warning if missing on , and you have to solve the dependency yourself manually. When running, if the dependency is missing, you get an error (mentioned by @nextgentech) This explains it nicely: https://flaviocopes.com/npm-peer-dependencies/

- in version 7 peerDependencies are automatically installed unless an upstream dependency conflict is present that cannot be automatically resolved

- 

Transitivity (mentioned by Ben Hutchison):

- 

 are installed transitively: if A requires B, and B requires C, then C gets installed, otherwise, B could not work, and neither would A.

- 

 is not installed transitively. E.g. we don't need to test B to test A, so B's testing dependencies can be left out.

Related options not discussed here:

-  which is discussed on the following question: Advantages of bundledDependencies over normal dependencies in npm

-  (mentioned by Aidan Feldman)

devDependencies

 are required to run,  only to develop, e.g.: unit tests, CoffeeScript to JavaScript transpilation, minification, ...

If you are going to develop a package, you download it (e.g. via ), go to its root which contains , and run:

Since you have the actual source, it is clear that you want to develop it, so by default, both  (since you must, of course, run to develop) and  dependencies are also installed.

If however, you are only an end user who just wants to install a package to use it, you will do from any directory:

In that case, you normally don't want the development dependencies, so you just get what is needed to use the package: .

If you really want to install development packages in that case, you can set the  configuration option to , possibly from the command line as:

The option is  by default since this is a much less common case.
peerDependencies

(Tested before 3.0)

Source: https://nodejs.org/en/blog/npm/peer-dependencies/

With regular dependencies, you can have multiple versions of the dependency: it's simply installed inside the  of the dependency.

E.g. if  and  both depend on  at different versions the project tree will look like:

Plugins, however, are packages that normally don't require the other package, which is called the host in this context. Instead:

- plugins are required by the host

- plugins offer a standard interface that the host expects to find

- only the host will be called directly by the user, so there must be a single version of it.

E.g. if  and  peer depend on , the project tree will look like:

This happens even though you never mention  in your  file.

I think this is an instance of the Inversion of Control design pattern.

A prototypical example of peer dependencies is Grunt, the host, and its plugins.

For example, on a Grunt plugin like https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt-contrib-uglify, you will see that:

-  is a 

- the only  is under : it's not actually used by the program.

Then, when the user will use a plugin, he will implicitly require the plugin from the  by adding a  line, but it's  that the user will call directly.

This would not work then if each plugin required a different Grunt version.
Manual

I think the documentation answers the question quite well, maybe you are just not familiar enough with node / other package managers. I probably only understand it because I know a bit about Ruby bundler.

The key line is:

These things will be installed when doing npm link or npm install from the root of a package and can be managed like any other npm configuration parameter. See npm-config(7) for more on the topic.

And then under npm-config(7) find :

A: Check out the built-in function encodeURIComponent(str) and encodeURI(str).

In your case, this should work:

A: If you are interested in finding out whether a variable has been declared regardless of its value, then using the  operator is the safest way to go. Consider this example:

But this may not be the intended result for some cases, since the variable or property was declared but just not initialized. Use the  operator for a more robust check.

If you are interested in knowing whether the variable hasn't been declared or has the value , then use the  operator, which is guaranteed to return a string:

Direct comparisons against  are troublesome as  can be overwritten. 

As @CMS pointed out, this has been patched in ECMAScript 5th ed., and  is non-writable.

 will also include these falsy values, so it's not very robust:

Thanks to @CMS for pointing out that your third case -  can also throw an error in two cases. The first is when the variable hasn't been defined which throws a . 

The other case is when the variable has been defined, but has a getter function which throws an error when invoked. For example,

A: C# language version history:

These are the versions of C# known about at the time of this writing:

- C# 1.0 released with .NET 1.0 and VS2002 (January 2002)

- C# 1.2 (bizarrely enough); released with .NET 1.1 and VS2003 (April 2003). First version to call  on s which implemented . A few other small features.

- C# 2.0 released with .NET 2.0 and VS2005 (November 2005). Major new features: generics, anonymous methods, nullable types, and iterator blocks

- C# 3.0 released with .NET 3.5 and VS2008 (November 2007). Major new features: lambda expressions, extension methods, expression trees, anonymous types, implicit typing (), and query expressions

- C# 4.0 released with .NET 4 and VS2010 (April 2010). Major new features: late binding (), delegate and interface generic variance, more COM support, named arguments, tuple data type and optional parameters

- C# 5.0 released with .NET 4.5 and VS2012 (August 2012). Major features: async programming, and caller info attributes. Breaking change: loop variable closure.

- C# 6.0 released with .NET 4.6 and VS2015 (July 2015). Implemented by Roslyn. Features: initializers for automatically implemented properties, using directives to import static members, exception filters, element initializers,  in  and , extension  methods in collection initializers.

- C# 7.0 released with .NET 4.7 and VS2017 (March 2017). Major new features: tuples, ref locals and ref return, pattern matching (including pattern-based switch statements), inline  parameter declarations, local functions, binary literals, digit separators, and arbitrary async returns.

- C# 7.1 released with VS2017 v15.3 (August 2017). New features: async main, tuple member name inference, default expression, and pattern matching with generics.

- C# 7.2 released with VS2017 v15.5 (November 2017). New features: private protected access modifier, Span, aka interior pointer, aka stackonly struct, and everything else.

- C# 7.3 released with VS2017 v15.7 (May 2018). New features: enum, delegate and  generic type constraints.  reassignment. Unsafe improvements:  initialization, unpinned indexed  buffers, custom  statements. Improved overloading resolution. Expression variables in initializers and queries.  and  defined for tuples. Auto-properties' backing fields can now be targeted by attributes.

- C# 8.0 released with .NET Core 3.0 and VS2019 v16.3 (September 2019). Major new features: nullable reference-types, asynchronous streams, indices and ranges, readonly members, using declarations, default interface methods, static local functions, and enhancement of interpolated verbatim strings.

- C# 9 released with .NET 5.0 and VS2019 v16.8 (November 2020). Major new features: init-only properties, records, with-expressions, data classes, positional records, top-level programs, improved pattern matching (simple type patterns, relational patterns, logical patterns), improved target typing (target-type  expressions, target typed  and ), and covariant returns. Minor features: relax ordering of  and  modifiers, parameter null checking, lambda discard parameters, native s, attributes on local functions, function pointers, static lambdas, extension , module initializers, and extending partial.

- C# 10 released with .NET 6.0 (November 2021). Major new features: record structs, struct parameterless constructors, interpolated string handlers, global  directives, file-scoped namespace declarations, extended property patterns, const interpolated strings, mixed assignment and declaration in deconstruction, async method builders (via attributes) for individual methods, the  attribute for parameters, enhanced  pragmas.

- C# 11 released with .NET 7.0 (November 2022). Major new features: file-scoped types, generic math support, auto-default structs, pattern match  on a constant string, extended nameof scope, numeric , UTF-8 string literals, required members,  fields and , raw string literals, improved method group conversion to delegate, warning wave 7, generic attributes, newlines in string interpolation expressions, list patterns

- C# 12 released with .NET 8.0 (November 2023). Major new features: primary constructors, collection expressions, inline arrays, optional parameters in lambda expressions,  parameters, alias any type,  attribute, interceptors

- C# 13 releasing with .NET 9.0 (November 2024). Major new features: params collections, new  type and semantics, new Escape sequence , method group natural type improvements, implicit indexer access in object initializers, ref locals and unsafe contexts in iterators and async methods, ref struct types to can implement interfaces, partial properties and indexers, ref struct types, overload resolution priority

In response to the OP's question:

What are the correct version numbers for C#? What came out when? Why can't I find any answers about C# 3.5?

There is no such thing as C# 3.5 - the cause of confusion here is that the C# 3.0 is present in .NET 3.5. The language and framework are versioned independently, however - as is the CLR, which is at version 2.0 for .NET 2.0 through 3.5, .NET 4 introducing CLR 4.0, service packs notwithstanding. The CLR in .NET 4.5 has various improvements, but the versioning is unclear: in some places it may be referred to as CLR 4.5 (this MSDN page used to refer to it that way, for example), but the  property still reports 4.0.xxx.

As of May 3, 2017, the C# Language Team created a history of C# versions and features on their GitHub repository: Features Added in C# Language Versions. There is also a page that tracks upcoming and recently implemented language features.

A: Note: The above algorithm has the following weaknesses:

- It will generate anywhere between 0 and 6 characters due to the fact that trailing zeros get removed when stringifying floating points.

- It depends deeply on the algorithm used to stringify floating point numbers, which is horrifically complex. (See the paper "How to Print Floating-Point Numbers Accurately".)

-  may produce predictable ("random-looking" but not really random) output depending on the implementation. The resulting string is not suitable when you need to guarantee uniqueness or unpredictability.

- Even if it produced 6 uniformly random, unpredictable characters, you can expect to see a duplicate after generating only about 50,000 strings, due to the birthday paradox. (sqrt(36^6) = 46656)

A: Now on GitHub as a Plugin!

 Feel free to fork and improve.

Demo | Download Zip | Half-Style.com (Redirects to GitHub)

- Pure CSS for a Single Character

- JavaScript used for automation across text or multiple characters

- Preserves Text Accessibility for screen readers for the blind or visually
impaired

Part 1: Basic Solution

Demo: http://jsfiddle.net/arbel/pd9yB/1694/

This works on any dynamic text, or a single character, and is all automated. All you need to do is add a class on the target text and the rest is taken care of.

Also, the accessibility of the original text is preserved for screen readers for the blind or visually impaired.

Explanation for a single character:

Pure CSS. All you need to do is to apply  class to each element that contains the character you want to be half-styled.

For each span element containing the character, you can create a data attribute, for example here , and on the pseudo element use  so the  class will be dynamic and you won't need to hard code it for every instance.

Explanation for any text:

Simply add  class to the element containing the text.









(JSFiddle demo)

Part 2: Advanced solution - Independent left and right parts

With this solution you can style left and right parts, individually and independently.

Everything is the same, only more advanced CSS does the magic.









(JSFiddle demo)

Part 3: Mix-Match and Improve

Now that we know what is possible, let's create some variations.

-Horizontal Half Parts

- Without Text Shadow:

- Possibility of Text Shadow for each half part independently:









(JSFiddle demo)

-Vertical 1/3 Parts

- Without Text Shadow:

- Possibility of Text Shadow for each 1/3 part independently:









(JSFiddle demo)

-Horizontal 1/3 Parts

- Without Text Shadow:

- Possibility of Text Shadow for each 1/3 part independently:









(JSFiddle demo)

-HalfStyle Improvement By @KevinGranger









(JSFiddle demo)

-PeelingStyle improvement of HalfStyle by @SamTremaine









(JSFiddle demo and on samtremaine.co.uk)

Part 4: Ready for Production

Customized different Half-Style style-sets can be used on desired elements on the same page.
You can define multiple style-sets and tell the plugin which one to use.

The plugin uses data attribute  on the target  elements and makes all the necessary changes automatically.

So, simply on the element containing the text add  class and data attribute . The plugin will do the rest of the job.

Also the CSS style-sets' class definitions match the  part mentioned above and is chained to , so we will have 









(JSFiddle demo)

A: is the first cast you should attempt to use. It does things like implicit conversions between types (such as  to , or pointer to ), and it can also call explicit conversion functions (or implicit ones). In many cases, explicitly stating  isn't necessary, but it's important to note that the  syntax is equivalent to  and should be avoided (more on that later). A  is safe, however, and guaranteed to call the constructor.

 can also cast through inheritance hierarchies. It is unnecessary when casting upwards (towards a base class), but when casting downwards it can be used as long as it doesn't cast through  inheritance. It does not do checking, however, and it is undefined behavior to  down a hierarchy to a type that isn't actually the type of the object.

 can be used to remove or add  to a variable; no other C++ cast is capable of removing it (not even ). It is important to note that modifying a formerly  value is only undefined if the original variable is ; if you use it to take the  off a reference to something that wasn't declared with , it is safe. This can be useful when overloading member functions based on , for instance. It can also be used to add  to an object, such as to call a member function overload.

 also works similarly on , though that's less common.

 is exclusively used for handling polymorphism. You can cast a pointer or reference to any polymorphic type to any other class type (a polymorphic type has at least one virtual function, declared or inherited). You can use it for more than just casting downwards – you can cast sideways or even up another chain. The  will seek out the desired object and return it if possible. If it can't, it will return  in the case of a pointer, or throw  in the case of a reference.

 has some limitations, though. It doesn't work if there are multiple objects of the same type in the inheritance hierarchy (the so-called 'dreaded diamond') and you aren't using  inheritance. It also can only go through public inheritance - it will always fail to travel through  or  inheritance. This is rarely an issue, however, as such forms of inheritance are rare.

 is the most dangerous cast, and should be used very sparingly. It turns one type directly into another — such as casting the value from one pointer to another, or storing a pointer in an , or all sorts of other nasty things. Largely, the only guarantee you get with  is that normally if you cast the result back to the original type, you will get the exact same value (but not if the intermediate type is smaller than the original type). There are a number of conversions that  cannot do, too. It's often abused for particularly weird conversions and bit manipulations, like turning a raw data stream into actual data, or storing data in the low bits of a pointer to aligned data. For those cases, see .
C-Style Cast and Function-Style Cast

C-style cast and function-style cast are casts using  or , respectively, and are functionally equivalent. They are defined as the first of the following which succeeds:

- 

-  (though ignoring access restrictions)

-  (see above), then 

- 

- , then 

It can therefore be used as a replacement for other casts in some instances, but can be extremely dangerous because of the ability to devolve into a , and the latter should be preferred when explicit casting is needed, unless you are sure  will succeed or  will fail. Even then, consider the longer, more explicit option.

C-style casts also ignore access control when performing a , which means that they have the ability to perform an operation that no other cast can. This is mostly a kludge, though, and in my mind is just another reason to avoid C-style casts.
 [C++20]

 copies the bits and bytes of the source object (its representation) directly into a new object of the target type.  It's a standards-compliant way to do type punning.  If you find yourself writing , you probably should use  instead.

 is declared in .  The objects must be the same size and be trivially copyable.  If you can't yet use C++20, use  to copy the source value into a variable of the desired type.

A: The Python 3  object doesn't produce numbers immediately; it is a smart sequence object that produces numbers on demand. All it contains is your start, stop and step values, then as you iterate over the object the next integer is calculated each iteration.

The object also implements the  hook, and calculates if your number is part of its range. Calculating is a (near) constant time operation *. There is never a need to scan through all possible integers in the range.

From the  object documentation:

The advantage of the  type over a regular  or  is that a range object will always take the same (small) amount of memory, no matter the size of the range it represents (as it only stores the ,  and  values, calculating individual items and subranges as needed).

So at a minimum, your  object would do:

This is still missing several things that a real  supports (such as the  or  methods, hashing, equality testing, or slicing), but should give you an idea.

I also simplified the  implementation to only focus on integer tests; if you give a real  object a non-integer value (including subclasses of ), a slow scan is initiated to see if there is a match, just as if you use a containment test against a list of all the contained values. This was done to continue to support other numeric types that just happen to support equality testing with integers but are not expected to support integer arithmetic as well. See the original Python issue that implemented the containment test.

* Near constant time because Python integers are unbounded and so math operations also grow in time as N grows, making this a O(log N) operation. Since it’s all executed in optimised C code and Python stores integer values in 30-bit chunks, you’d run out of memory before you saw any performance impact due to the size of the integers involved here.

A: Check out the documentation to see how decorators work. Here is what you asked for:

A: I suggest you use Windows PowerShell's  cmdlet, as described in another answer to this question by Marawan Mamdouh.

If you're like me and don't use PowerShell, use Windows'  program. Like Unix , it shows the full path that would match the filename-only command you type:

Unlike ,  can show all the paths that match the given filename, though only the first one shown would normally be used when launching a program:

 tries to follow the Windows command shell CMD.EXE's rules for what file names and paths work as commands. That includes the  environment variable and the ability to open non-program data files using their filenames with extensions:

 will even accept wildcards, so  finds all files in your  and current directory whose names start with  and end with :

Check the online docs for  or run  for more help.

Notes:

- When using PowerShell, run  as , never . Plain  in PowerShell is an alias for the  cmdlet, which does something very different from  / .

-  is available in Windows Server 2003 and later. Sorry if you're still on Windows XP.

A: This somewhat depends on what platform you are on. The most common way to do this is by printing ANSI escape sequences. For a simple example, here's some Python code from the Blender build scripts:

To use code like this, you can do something like:

Or, with Python 3.6+:

This will work on unixes including OS X, Linux and Windows (provided you use ANSICON, or in Windows 10 provided you enable VT100 emulation). There are ANSI codes for setting the color, moving the cursor, and more.

If you are going to get complicated with this (and it sounds like you are if you are writing a game), you should look into the "curses" module, which handles a lot of the complicated parts of this for you. The Python Curses HowTO is a good introduction.

If you are not using extended ASCII (i.e., not on a PC), you are stuck with the ASCII characters below 127, and '#' or '@' is probably your best bet for a block. If you can ensure your terminal is using a IBM extended ASCII character set, you have many more options. Characters 176, 177, 178 and 219 are the "block characters".

Some modern text-based programs, such as "Dwarf Fortress", emulate text mode in a graphical mode, and use images of the classic PC font. You can find some of these bitmaps that you can use on the Dwarf Fortress Wiki see (user-made tilesets).

The Text Mode Demo Contest has more resources for doing graphics in text mode.

A: Update (2025): Most suggestions here no longer work with Homebrew 4.4 due to deprecations/breaking changes. There are working solutions in other, newer answers.

TLDR:  See Bijan's answer for more details.

Let’s start with the simplest case:

- Check whether the version is already installed (but not activated)

When Homebrew installs a new formula, it puts it in a versioned directory like . Only symbolic links to this folder are then installed globally. In principle, this makes it pretty easy to switch between two installed versions. (*)

If you have been using Homebrew for longer and never removed older versions (using, for example ), chances are that some older version of your program may still be around. If you want to simply activate that previous version,  is the easiest way to do this.

Check with  (or ) whether the older version is installed:

We see that some older version is already installed. We may activate it using :

Let’s double check what is activated:

Note that the star  has moved to the newly activated version

(*) Please note that  only works as long as all dependencies of the older version are still around. In some cases, a rebuild of the older version may become necessary. Therefore, using  is mostly useful when one wants to switch between two versions not too far apart.

- Check, whether the version is available as a tap

Especially for larger software projects, it is very probably that there is a high enough demand for several (potentially API incompatible) major versions of a certain piece of software. As of March 2012, Homebrew 0.9 provides a mechanism for this:  & the Homebrew versions repository.

That versions repository may include backports of older versions for several formulae. (Mostly only the large and famous ones, but of course they’ll also have several formulae for PostgreSQL.)

 will show you where to look:

We can simply install it by typing

Note that this has automatically tapped the  tap. (Check with , remove with .) The following would have been equivalent:

As long as the backported version formulae stay up-to-date, this approach is probably the best way to deal with older software.

- Try some formula from the past

The following approaches are listed mostly for completeness. Both try to resurrect some undead formula from the brew repository. Due to changed dependencies, API changes in the formula spec or simply a change in the download URL, things may or may not work.

Since the whole formula directory is a Git (version control) repository, one can install specific versions using plain Git commands. However, we need to find a way to get to a commit where the old version was available.

a) historic times

Between August 2011 and October 2014, Homebrew had a  command, which spat out all available versions with their respective SHA-1 hashes. As of October 2014, you have to do a  before you can use it. As the name of the tap suggests, you should probably only do this as a last resort.

E.g.

As you can see, it advises against using it. Homebrew spits out all versions it can find with its internal heuristic and shows you a way to retrieve the old formulae. Let’s try it.

Now that the older PostgreSQL version is installed, we can re-install the latest formula in order to keep our repository clean:

 is your friend to change between the old and the new.

b) prehistoric times

For special needs, we may also try our own digging through the Homebrew repository.

 looks for all commits in which the string  was either added or removed in the file . We get two commits as a result.

Obviously,  is the commit we’re interested in. As this commit is pretty old, we’ll try to downgrade the complete Homebrew installation (that way, the formula API is more or less guaranteed to be valid):

You may skip the last command to keep the reference in your Git repository.

One note: When checking out the older commit, you temporarily downgrade your Homebrew installation. So, you should be careful as some commands in Homebrew might be different to the most recent version.

- Manually write a formula

It’s not too hard and you may then upload it to your own repository. Used to be Homebrew-Versions, but that is now discontinued.
A.) Bonus: Pinning

If you want to keep a certain version of, say PostgreSQL, around and stop it from being updated when you do the natural  procedure, you can pin a formula:

Pinned formulae are listed in  and once you want to bring in the latest changes and updates, you can unpin it again:

A: This is what works for me:

A: You should check the  and  documentation for a more detailed description of their behaviors, but in a nutshell, the major difference is that  can do more than :

-  allows  to be a URL

- Referring to comments below, the  documentation states that:

If  is a local tar archive in a recognized compression format (identity, gzip, bzip2 or xz) then it is unpacked as a directory. Resources from remote URLs are not decompressed.

Note that the Best practices for writing Dockerfiles suggests using  where the magic of  is not required. Otherwise, you (since you had to look up this answer) are likely to get surprised someday when you mean to copy  into your container, but instead, you spray the contents onto your filesystem.

A: from within a jQuery event handler is effectively the same as calling both   and  on the passed jQuery.Event object.

 will prevent the default event from occuring,  will prevent the event from bubbling up and  will do both. Note that this behaviour differs from normal (non-jQuery) event handlers, in which, notably,  does not stop the event from bubbling up.

Source: John Resig

Any benefit to using event.preventDefault() over "return false" to cancel out an href click?

A: The usual way to check if the value of a property is the special value , is:

To check if an object does not actually have such a property, and will therefore return  by default when you try to access it:

To check if the value associated with an identifier is the special value , or if that identifier has not been declared:

Note: this last method is the only way to refer to an undeclared identifier without an early error, which is different from having a value of .

In versions of JavaScript prior to ECMAScript 5, the property named "undefined" on the global object was writeable, and therefore a simple check  might behave unexpectedly if it had accidentally been redefined. In modern JavaScript, the property is read-only.

However, in modern JavaScript, "undefined" is not a keyword, and so variables inside functions can be named "undefined" and shadow the global property.

If you are worried about this (unlikely) edge case, you can use the void operator to get at the special  value itself:

A: There isn't a built-in flag yet. Starting with pip version 22.3, the  and  have become mutually exclusive. Use Python, to parse the JSON output:

If you are using  you can use:

For older versions of :

- 

The  is to skip editable ("-e") package definitions, as suggested by @jawache. (Yes, you could replace + with  or  or  or...).

- 

The  flag for  prevents stopping everything if updating one package fails (thanks @andsens).

Note: there are infinite potential variations for this. I'm trying to keep this answer short and simple, but please do suggest variations in the comments!

A: Firefox 30 ignores  for passwords, opting to prompt the user instead whether the password should be stored on the client. Note the following commentary from May 5, 2014:

- The password manager always prompts if it wants to save a password. Passwords are not saved without permission from the user.

- We are the third browser to implement this change, after IE and Chrome.

According to the Mozilla Developer Network documentation, the Boolean form element attribute  prevents form data from being cached in older browsers.

A: and you run it with

Compile goal should be added before assembly:single or otherwise the code on your own project is not included.

See more details in comments.

Commonly this goal is tied to a build phase to execute automatically. This ensures the JAR is built when executing  or performing a deployment/release.

A: Adding the tags  and  to the parent layout (e.g.  or ) like in the following example, will fix the problem.

A: Since your  was unsuccessful then  (not ) is the last "valid" commit on your branch:

The other piece you want is to let their changes over-ride your changes.  

Older versions of git allowed you to use the "theirs" merge strategy:

But this has since been removed, as explained in this message by Junio Hamano (the Git maintainer).  As noted in the link, instead you would do this:

A: Here is the best way, for me, to add code inside word:

- Go to  tab,  section, click  button (it's on the right)

- Choose  which will open a new embedded word document

- Copy and paste your code from Visual Studio / Eclipse inside this embedded word page

- Save and close

Advantages

The result looks very nice. Here are the advantages of this method:

- The code keeps its original layout and colors

- The code is separated from the rest of the document, as if it was a picture or a chart

- Spelling errors won't be highlighted in the code (this is cool !)

And it takes only few seconds.

A: In JavaScript, everything is 'truthy' or 'falsy', and for numbers  means , everything else . So you could write:

You don't need that  part.

A: Docker has a default entrypoint which is  but does not have a default command.

When you run docker like this:

the entrypoint is the default , the image is  and the command is .

The command is run via the entrypoint. i.e., the actual thing that gets executed is . This allowed Docker to implement  quickly by relying on the shell's parser.

Later on, people asked to be able to customize this, so  and  were introduced.

Everything after the image name,  in the example above, is the command and is passed to the entrypoint. When using the  instruction, it is exactly as if you were executing

The parameter of the entrypoint is .

You will also get the same result if you instead type this command : a bash shell will start in the container because in the ubuntu Dockerfile a default  is specified:

.

As everything is passed to the entrypoint, you can have a very nice behavior from your images. @Jiri example is good, it shows how to use an image as a "binary". When using  as entrypoint and then doing , you get it,  is the command and is passed to the entrypoint so the end result execution is simply .

Another example would be to have any cli as entrypoint. For instance, if you have a redis image, instead of running , you can simply have  and then run like this for the same result: .

A: You need to override  and write the application state values you want to change to the  parameter like this:

The Bundle is essentially a way of storing a NVP ("Name-Value Pair") map, and it will get passed in to  and also  where you would then extract the values from activity like this:

Or from a fragment.

You would usually use this technique to store instance values for your application (selections, unsaved text, etc.).

A: This is a trick,

In most cases, this should happen directly in the  handler for the link to prevent pop-up blockers, and the default "new window" behavior. You could do it this way, or by adding an event listener to your  object.

Reference: Open a URL in a new tab using JavaScript

A: With HTML5 you can make file uploads with Ajax and jQuery. Not only that, you can do file validations (name, size, and MIME type) or handle the progress event with the HTML5 progress tag (or a div). Recently I had to make a file uploader, but I didn't want to use Flash nor Iframes or plugins and after some research I came up with the solution.

The HTML:

First, you can do some validation if you want. For example, in the  event of the file:

Now the  submit with the button's click:

As you can see, with HTML5 (and some research) file uploading not only becomes possible but super easy. Try it with Google Chrome as some of the HTML5 components of the examples aren't available in every browser.

A: No; you shouldn’t cast the result, since:

- It is unnecessary, as  is automatically and safely promoted to any other pointer type in this case.

- It adds clutter to the code, casts are not very easy to read (especially if the pointer type is long).

- It makes you repeat yourself, which is generally bad.

- It can hide an error if you forgot to include . This can cause crashes (or, worse, not cause a crash until way later in some totally different part of the code). Consider what happens if pointers and integers are differently sized; then you're hiding a warning by casting and might lose bits of your returned address. Note: as of C99 implicit functions are gone from C, and this point is no longer relevant since there's no automatic assumption that undeclared functions return .

As a clarification, note that I said “you shouldn’t cast”, not “you don't need to cast”. In my opinion, it's a blunder to include the cast, even if you got it right. There are simply no benefits to doing it, but a bunch of potential risks, and including the cast indicates that you don't know about the risks.

Also note, as commentators point out, that the above talks about straight C, not C++. I very firmly believe in C and C++ as separate languages.

To add further, your code needlessly repeats the type information () which can cause errors. It's better to de-reference the pointer being used to store the return value, to "lock" the two together:

Some may say: “Well, previously the type was repeated, and now the variable name is repeated; isn’t this just as repetitive as before? How is that any better?”  The difference is that if you one day change the type of the variable and forget to change the type under the  to match, you will silently get an allocation of the wrong size and no warning about it; but if you change the name of the variable, but forget to change the name under  to match, it is more probable that the old name no longer resolves to anything, so your code will stop compiling, prompting you to fix the mistake.

This also moves the  to the front for increased visibility, and drops the redundant parentheses with ; they are only needed when the argument is a type name. Many people seem to not know (or ignore) this, which makes their code more verbose. Remember:  is not a function! :)

While moving  to the front may increase visibility in some rare cases, one should also pay attention that in the general case, it should be better to write the expression as:

Since keeping the  first, in this case, ensures multiplication is done with at least  math.

Compare:  vs.  the second may overflow the  when  and  are smaller types than .

A: Just assign it to the  attribute:

A: Roy Fielding's comment about including a body with a GET request.

Yes. In other words, any HTTP request message is allowed to contain a message body, and thus must parse messages with that in mind. Server semantics for GET, however, are restricted such that a body, if any, has no semantic meaning to the request. The requirements on parsing are separate from the requirements on method semantics.

So, yes, you can send a body with GET, and no, it is never useful to do so.

This is part of the layered design of HTTP/1.1 that will become clear again once the spec is partitioned (work in progress).

....Roy

Yes, you can send a request body with GET but it should not have any meaning. If you give it meaning by parsing it on the server and changing your response based on its contents, then you are ignoring this recommendation in the HTTP/1.1 spec, section 4.3:

...if the request method does not include defined semantics for an entity-body, then the message-body SHOULD be ignored when handling the request.

And the description of the GET method in the HTTP/1.1 spec, section 9.3:

The GET method means retrieve whatever information ([...]) is identified by the Request-URI.

which states that the request-body is not part of the identification of the resource in a GET request, only the request URI.

Update

The RFC2616 referenced as "HTTP/1.1 spec" is now obsolete. In 2014 it was replaced by RFCs 7230-7237. Quote "the message-body SHOULD be ignored when handling the request" has been deleted. It's now just "Request message framing is independent of method semantics, even if the method doesn't define any use for a message body" The 2nd quote "The GET method means retrieve whatever information ... is identified by the Request-URI" was deleted.  - From a comment

From the HTTP 1.1 2014 Spec:

A payload within a GET request message has no defined semantics; sending a payload body on a GET request might cause some existing implementations to reject the request.

A: NOTE: This answer changes SHA1s, so take care when using it on a branch that has already been pushed. It also replaces the timestamps of all affected commits with the current date and time. If you only want to fix the spelling of a name or update an old email, Git lets you do this without rewriting history using . See my other answer.
Using Rebase

First, if you haven't already done so, you will likely want to fix your name in git-config:

This is optional, but it will also make sure to reset the committer name, too, assuming that's what you need.

To rewrite metadata for a range of commits using a rebase, do

 will run the  step after each commit is rewritten (as if you ran  repeatedly).

If you also want to change your first commit (also called the 'root' commit), you will have to add  to the rebase call.

This will change both the committer and the author to your / configuration. If you did not want to change that config, you can use  instead of . Note that doing so will not update the committer -- just the author.
Single Commit

If you just want to change the most recent commit, a rebase is not necessary. Just amend the commit:

Entire project history

For older Git clients (pre-July 2020)

 may not exist for you. As a replacement, you can use . Note that  has serious issues and is now deprecated.
Push to remote server

Use the following command to push the changes to a remote server, remember: this action replaces the timestamps of all affected commits on the remote server.

A: This can now be done in Chrome, Safari, Firefox 4+, and Internet Explorer 10pp4+!

See this question's answer for more information:
Updating address bar with new URL without hash or reloading the page

Example:

You can then use  or  to detect the back/forward button navigation:

For a more in-depth look at manipulating browser history, see this MDN article.

A: You can use  operator:







Example from this webpage. (Example was slightly modified though).

This won't work as expected in the case of strings created with , but this is seldom used and recommended against[1][2]. See the other answers for how to handle these, if you so desire.







- The Google JavaScript Style Guide says to never use primitive object wrappers.

- Douglas Crockford recommended that primitive object wrappers be deprecated.

A: If your git version is >= 1.6.1, you can use .

Also, as @Michael Johnson mentions, if your git version is >= 1.7.4, you can also use .

As always, make sure you have no uncommitted changes before you start a merge.

From the git merge man page

 is equivalent to  when  is present.

 is present when a merge is in progress.

Also, regarding uncommitted changes when starting a merge:

If you have changes you don't want to commit before starting a merge, just  them  before the merge and  after finishing the merge or aborting it.

A: Well, the problem is that the variable , within each of your anonymous functions, is bound to the same variable outside of the function.
ES6 solution: 

ECMAScript 6 (ES6) introduces new  and  keywords that are scoped differently than -based variables. For example, in a loop with a -based index, each iteration through the loop will have a new variable  with loop scope, so your code would work as you expect. There are many resources, but I'd recommend 2ality's block-scoping post as a great source of information.

Beware, though, that IE9-IE11 and Edge prior to Edge 14 support  but get the above wrong (they don't create a new  each time, so all the functions above would log 3 like they would if we used ). Edge 14 finally gets it right.

ES5.1 solution: forEach

With the relatively widespread availability of the  function (in 2015), it's worth noting that in those situations involving iteration primarily over an array of values,  provides a clean, natural way to get a distinct closure for every iteration. That is, assuming you've got some sort of array containing values (DOM references, objects, whatever), and the problem arises of setting up callbacks specific to each element, you can do this:

The idea is that each invocation of the callback function used with the  loop will be its own closure. The parameter passed in to that handler is the array element specific to that particular step of the iteration. If it's used in an asynchronous callback, it won't collide with any of the other callbacks established at other steps of the iteration.

If you happen to be working in jQuery, the  function gives you a similar capability.

Classic solution: Closures

What you want to do is bind the variable within each function to a separate, unchanging value outside of the function:







Since there is no block scope in JavaScript - only function scope - by wrapping the function creation in a new function, you ensure that the value of "i" remains as you intended.

A: lets you avoid referring to the base class explicitly, which can be nice. But the main advantage comes with multiple inheritance, where all sorts of fun stuff can happen. See the standard docs on super if you haven't already.

Note that the syntax changed in Python 3.0: you can just say  instead of  which IMO is quite a bit nicer. The standard docs also refer to a guide to using  which is quite explanatory.

A: returns the Android ID as an unique for each user 64-bit hex string.

Also read Best practices for unique identifiers: https://developer.android.com/training/articles/user-data-ids

A: Timestamps in MySQL are generally used to track changes to records, and are often updated every time the record is changed. If you want to store a specific value you should use a datetime field.

If you meant that you want to decide between using a UNIX timestamp or a native MySQL datetime field, go with the native  format. You can do calculations within MySQL that way
 and it is simple to change the format of the value to a UNIX timestamp  when you query the record if you want to operate on it with PHP.

Also, as of MySQL 8.0.19 the  supports time zone offsets, so there's even less reason to use  now.

A: The method given in the ECMAScript standard to find the class of Object is to use the  method from .

Or you could use  to test if it is a string:

Or if you're not concerned about performance, you could just do a  to a new empty Array.

There's also the constructor which you can query directly:

Check out a thorough treatment from T.J. Crowder's blog, as posted in his comment below.

Check out this benchmark to get an idea which method performs better: http://jsben.ch/#/QgYAV

From @Bharath, convert a string to an array using ES6 for the question asked:

Suppose:

Q: How can I import an SQL file using the command line in MySQL?

I have a  file with an export from . I want to import it into a different server using the command line.

I have a Windows Server 2008 R2 installation. I placed the  file on the C drive, and I tried this command

It is not working. I get syntax errors.

- How can I import this file without a problem?

- Do I need to create a database first?

Q: How do I "git clone" a repo, including its submodules?

How do I clone a git repository so that it also clones its submodules?

Running  merely creates empty submodule directories.

Q: How do I get the last element of a list?

How do I get the last element of a list in Python? I tried:

but I got

ValueError: attempt to assign sequence of size 6 to extended slice of size 5

Q: How to list only the names of files that changed between two commits

I have a bunch of commits in the repository. I want to see a list of files changed between two commits - from SHA1 to SHA2.

What command should I use?

Q: Interfaces vs Types in TypeScript

What is the difference between these statements ( vs ) in TypeScript?

Q: How do I vertically center text with CSS?

I have a  element which contains text and I want to align the contents of this  vertically center.

Here is my  style:








What is the best way to achieve this goal?

Q: Pull latest changes for all git submodules

We're using git submodules to manage a couple of large projects that have dependencies on many other libraries we've developed. Each library is a separate repo brought into the dependent project as a submodule. During development, we often want to just go grab the latest version of every dependent submodule.

How do I pull the latest changes for all git submodules?

Q: Flash CS4 refuses to let go

I have a Flash project, and it has many source files. I have a fairly heavily-used class, call it Jenine. I recently (and, perhaps, callously) relocated Jenine from one namespace to another. I thought we were ready - I thought it was time. The new Jenine was better in every way - she had lost some code bloat, she had decoupled herself from a few vestigial class relationships, and she had finally come home to the namespace that she had always secretly known in her heart was the one she truly belonged to. She was among her own kind.

Unfortunately, Flash would have none of that. Perhaps it had formed an attachment. Perhaps it didn't want Jenine to be decoupled. Either way, it clung to the old, perfect version of Jenine in its memory. It refused to move on. It ignored her (function) calls. It tried to forget her new, public interfaces. Instead, every instance of Jenine that it constructed was always a copy of the old version, down to its classpath:

We fought. I'm not proud of some of the things I said or did. In the end, in a towering fit of rage, I deleted all references of Jenine completely. She was utterly, completely erased from the system. My cursor fell upon the "Empty Trash" menu option like the cold lid of a casket.

I don't think Flash ever recovered. To this day it still clings to the memory of Jenine. Her old, imperfect definitions still float through my project like abandoned ghosts. Whenever I force Flash to compile, it still lovingly inserts her into my movie, nestling her definition in amongst the other, living classes, like a small shrine. I wonder if they can see her.

Flash and I don't really talk anymore. I write my code, it compiles it. There's a new girl in town named Summer who looks almost identical to Jenine, as if someone had just copied her source-code wholesale into a new class, but Flash hasn't shown any interest. Most days it just mopes around and writes bad poetry in my comments when it thinks I'm not looking.

I hope no one else has had a similar experience, that this is just a singular, painful ripple in the horrifying dark lagoon that is the Flash code-base. Does anyone have any idea how to erase whatever cache the compiler is using?

Q: What does O(log n) mean exactly?

I am learning about Big O Notation running times and amortized times.  I understand the notion of O(n) linear time, meaning that the size of the input affects the growth of the algorithm proportionally...and the same goes for, for example, quadratic time O(n2) etc..even algorithms, such as permutation generators, with O(n!) times, that grow by factorials.

For example, the following function is O(n) because the algorithm grows in proportion to its input n:

Similarly, if there was a nested loop, the time would be O(n2).

But what exactly is O(log n)?  For example, what does it mean to say that the height of a complete binary tree is O(log n)?

I do know (maybe not in great detail) what Logarithm is, in the sense that:  log10 100 = 2, but I cannot understand how to identify a function with a logarithmic time.

Q: How do I parse a string to a float or int?

How can I convert an  to a ?

Or an  to a ?

For the reverse, see Convert integer to string in Python and Converting a float to a string without rounding it.

Please instead use How can I read inputs as numbers? to close duplicate questions where OP received a string from user input and immediately wants to convert it, or was hoping for  (in 3.x) to convert the type automatically.

Q: How do I delete all Git branches which have been merged?

How do I delete branches which have already been merged? Can I delete them all at once, instead of deleting each branch one-by-one?

Q: How can I format a number with commas as thousands separators?

I am trying to print an integer in JavaScript with commas as thousands separators. For example, I want to show the number 1234567 as "1,234,567". How would I go about doing this?

Here is how I am doing it:

Is there a simpler or more elegant way to do it? It would be nice if it works with floats also, but that is not necessary. It does not need to be locale-specific to decide between periods and commas.

Q: How do I install pip on Windows?

is a replacement for . But should I install  using  on Windows? Is there a better way?

Q: Make .gitignore ignore everything except a few files

I understand that a  file cloaks specified files from Git's version control.

How do I tell  to ignore everything except the files I'm tracking with Git? Something like:

Q: How do I create an HTML button that acts like a link?

How do I create an HTML button that acts like a link? So that clicking the button redirects the user to a page.

I want it to be accessible, and with minimal extra characters or parameters in the URL.

Q: How can I prevent SQL injection in PHP?

If user input is inserted without modification into an SQL query, then the application becomes vulnerable to SQL injection, like in the following example:

That's because the user can input something like , and the query becomes:

What can be done to prevent this from happening?

Q: How do I revert all local changes in Git managed project to previous state?

I ran  which told me everything was up to date and there were no local changes.

Then I made several consecutive changes and realized I wanted to throw everything away and get back to my original state. Will this command do it for me?

Q: How do I refresh a page using JavaScript?

How do I refresh a page using JavaScript?

Q: How do I determine whether an array contains a particular value in Java?

I have a  with values like so:

Given , is there a good way of testing whether  contains ?

Q: What is the purpose of .PHONY in a Makefile?

What does  mean in a Makefile? I have gone through this, but it is too complicated.

Can somebody explain it to me in simple terms?

Q: How can I fix 'android.os.NetworkOnMainThreadException'?

I got an error while running my Android project for RssReader. 

Code:

And it shows the below error:

How can I fix this issue?

Q: How to branch from a previous commit

If I have an  number of commits, how can I create a branch from the  commit?

Q: Why shouldn't I use mysql_* functions in PHP?

What are the technical reasons for why one shouldn't use  functions? (e.g. ,  or )?

Why should I use something else even if they work on my site?

If they don't work on my site, why do I get errors like 

  

Warning: mysql_connect(): No such file or directory

Q: Scroll to an element with jQuery

I have this  element:

Then I have some other elements, like other  tag's &  tag's, etc...

When the user clicks on the , the page should scroll to the page's last element, and it should do so with a nice animation (It should be a scroll to bottom and not to top).

The last item of the page is a  button with :

The animation should not be too fast and should be fluid.

I am running the latest jQuery version. I prefer to not install any plugin but to use the default jQuery features to achieve this.

Q: How do I safely merge a Git branch into master?

A new branch from  is created, we call it .

There are several developers who either commit to  or create other branches and later merge into .

Let's say work on  is taking several days and you want to continuously keep  updated with commits inside .

I would do  from . 

Question 1: Is this the right approach?  Other developers could have easily worked on same files as I have worked btw.

My work on  is done and I am ready to merge it back to . Here are the two ways I can think of:

A:  

B: 

I am not using  because from my understanding, rebase will get the changes from  and stack mine on top of that hence it could overwrite changes other people made.

Question 2: Which one of these two methods is right?  What is the difference there?

The goal in all of this is to keep my  branch updated with the things happening in  and later I could merge them back into  hoping to keep the timeline as linear as possible.

Q: How do I get a substring of a string in Python?

I want to get a new string from the third character to the end of the string, e.g. . If omitting the second part means 'to the end', and if you omit the first part, does it start from the start?

Q: How do I escape curly-brace ({}) characters characters in a string while using .format?

Non-working example:

Desired output:

Q: How can I determine if a variable is 'undefined' or 'null'?

How do I determine if a variable is  or ?

My code is as follows:

But when I do this, the JavaScript interpreter halts execution.

Q: Does a finally block always get executed in Java?

Considering this code, can I be absolutely sure that the  block always executes, no matter what  is?

Q: How do I call one constructor from another in Java?

Is it possible to call a constructor from another (within the same class, not from a subclass)? If yes how? And what could be the best way to call another constructor (if there are several ways to do it)?

Q: What are the differences between .gitignore and .gitkeep?

What are the differences between  and ? Are they the same thing with a different name, or do they both serve a different function?

I don't seem to be able to find much documentation on .

Q: How to make a div 100% height of the browser window

I have a layout with two columns - a left  and a right .

The right  has a grey , and I need it to expand vertically depending on the height of the user's browser window. Right now, the  ends at the last piece of content in that .

I've tried , , etc.

Q: Can (a== 1 && a ==2 && a==3) ever evaluate to true?

Moderator note: Please resist the urge to edit the code or remove this notice. The pattern of whitespace may be part of the question and therefore should not be tampered with unnecessarily. If you are in the "whitespace is insignificant" camp, you should be able to accept the code as is.

How is it ever possible that  could evaluate to  in JavaScript?

This is an interview question asked by a major tech company. We never write such code in our day-to-day job.

Q: How can I get query string values in JavaScript?

Is there a plugin-less way of retrieving query string values via jQuery (or without)? 

If so, how? If not, is there a plugin which can do so?

Q: Set a default parameter value for a JavaScript function

I would like a JavaScript function to have optional arguments which I set a default on, which get used if the value isn't defined (and ignored if the value is passed). In Ruby you can do it like this:

Does this work in JavaScript?

Q: How do I show the changes which have been staged?

I staged a few changes to be committed. How do I see the diffs of all files which are staged for the next commit? Is there a handy one-liner for this?

 only shows names of files which are staged, but I want to see the actual diffs.

The  man page says:

git diff [--options] [--] […]

This form is to view the changes you made relative to the index (staging area for the next commit). In other words, the differences are what you could tell git to further add to the index but you still haven't. You can stage these changes by using git-add(1).

Q: Deep cloning objects

I want to do something like:

And then make changes to the new object that are not reflected in the original object.

I don't often need this functionality, so when it's been necessary, I've resorted to creating a new object and then copying each property individually, but it always leaves me with the feeling that there is a better or more elegant way of handling the situation.

How can I clone or deep copy an object so that the cloned object can be modified without any changes being reflected in the original object?

Q: Adding a table row in jQuery

I'm using jQuery to add an additional row to a table as the last row.

I have done it this way:

Are there limitations to what you can add to a table like this (such as inputs, selects, number of rows)? Is there a different way to do it?

Q: How do I recover a dropped stash in Git?

I frequently use  and  to save and restore changes in my working tree. Yesterday, I had some changes in my working tree that I had stashed and popped, and then I made more changes to my working tree. I'd like to go back and review yesterday's stashed changes, but  appears to remove all references to the associated commit.

I know that if I use  then .git/refs/stash contains the reference of the commit used to create the stash. And .git/logs/refs/stash contains the whole stash. But those references are gone after . I know that the commit is still in my repository somewhere, but I don't know what it was.

Is there an easy way to recover yesterday's stash commit reference?

Q: Check if a given key already exists in a dictionary

I wanted to test if a key exists in a dictionary before updating the value for the key.
I wrote the following code:

I think this is not the best way to accomplish this task. Is there a better way to test for a key in the dictionary?

Q: Importing files from different folder

I have this folder structure:

How can I import a function from , from within ? I tried:

but it doesn't work.

Q: How do I check if a string contains a specific word?

Consider:

Suppose I have the code above, what is the correct way to write the statement ?

Q: What's the difference between @Component, @Repository & @Service annotations in Spring?

Can , , and  annotations be used interchangeably in Spring or do they provide any particular functionality besides acting as a notation device?

In other words, if I have a Service class and I change its annotation from  to , will it still behave the same way?

Or does the annotation also influence the behavior and functionality of the class?

Q: How to show tables in PostgreSQL?

What's the equivalent to  (from MySQL) in PostgreSQL?

Q: What is the difference between margin and padding in CSS?

What is the difference between  and  in CSS? When should one or the other be used?

Q: How do I delete a file from a Git repository?

How can I delete  from my repository?

Q: Class (static) variables and methods

How do I create class (i.e. static) variables or methods in Python?

Q: Catch multiple exceptions at once?

It is discouraged to catch  errors. Instead, only the "known" exceptions should be caught.

This sometimes leads to unnecessary repetitive code, for example:

Is there a way to catch both exceptions and only set  once?

The given example is rather simple, as it's only a , but imagine code where you modify an object multiple times, and if one of the manipulations fails as expected, you want to "reset" the object. However, if there is an unexpected exception, I still want to throw that higher.

Q: How do I parse command line arguments in Bash?

Say, I have a script that gets called with this line:

or this one:

What's the accepted way of parsing this such that in each case (or some combination of the two) , , and   will all be set to  and  will be equal to ?

Q: How do I chop/slice/trim off last character in string using Javascript?

I have a string, , and I would like it to return .

I have looked at , but it looks like it is only trimming whitespace and  which I don't see how this would work. Any suggestions?

Q: Generate random number between two numbers in JavaScript

Is there a way to generate a random number in a specified range with JavaScript ?

For example: a specified range from 1 to 6 were the random number could be either 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6.

Q: How can I git stash a specific file?

How can I stash a specific file leaving the others currently modified out of the stash I am about to save?

For example, if git status gives me this:

and I only want to stash app/views/cart/welcome.thtml, how would I do that? Something like (but of course this does not work):

Q: Disable/enable an input with jQuery?

or 

Which is the standard way? And, conversely, how do you enable a disabled input?

Q: How can I convert a string to an integer in JavaScript?

How do I convert a string to an integer in JavaScript?

Q: How do I name and retrieve a Git stash by name?

How do I save/apply a stash with a name? I don't want to have to look up its index number in . I tried , but that only changes the stash description, and the corresponding  doesn't work.

Q: How do I lowercase a string in Python?

Is there a way to convert a string to lowercase?

See How to change a string into uppercase? for the opposite.

Q: How do I delete an exported environment variable?

Before installing gnuplot, I set the environment variable . During the installation, something went wrong.

I want to remove the  environment variable. How can I achieve it?

Q: How can I copy files from a host to a Docker container?

I am trying to build a backup-and-restore solution for the Docker containers that we work with.

I have a Docker base image that I have created, , and do not want have to rebuild it each time with a Docker file to add files to it.

I want to create a script that runs from the host machine and creates a new container using the  Docker image and then copies files into that container.

How can I copy files from the host to the container?

Q: What is reflection and why is it useful?

What is reflection, and why is it useful?

I'm particularly interested in Java, but I assume the principles are the same in any language.

Q: Do a "git export" (like "svn export")?

I've been wondering whether there is a good "git export" solution that creates a copy of a tree without the  repository directory. There are at least three methods I know of:

-  followed by removing the  repository directory.

-  alludes to this functionality but starts with "Just read the desired tree into the index..." which I'm not entirely sure how to do.

-  is a third-party script that essentially does a  into a temporary location followed by  into the final destination.

None of these solutions really strike me as being satisfactory. The closest one to  might be option 1, because both require the target directory to be empty first. But option 2 seems even better, assuming I can figure out what it means to read a tree into the index.

Q: How do I declare and initialize an array in Java?

How do I declare and initialize an array in Java?

Q: What does the ??!??! operator do in C?

I saw a line of C that looked like this:

It compiled correctly and seems to run ok. It seems like it's checking if an error has occurred, and if it has, it handles it. But I'm not really sure what it's actually doing or how it's doing it. It does look like the programmer is trying express their feelings about errors.

I have never seen the  before in any programming language, and I can't find documentation for it anywhere. (Google doesn't help with search terms like ). What does it do and how does the code sample work?

Q: Validate decimal numbers in JavaScript - IsNumeric()

What's the cleanest, most effective way to validate decimal numbers in JavaScript?

Bonus points for:

- Clarity. Solution should be clean and simple.

- Cross-platform.

Test cases:

Q: Error message "error:0308010C:digital envelope routines::unsupported"

I created the default IntelliJ IDEA React project and got this:

It seems to be a recent issue - webpack ran into this 4 days ago and is still working on it.

Q: Generating random whole numbers in JavaScript in a specific range

How can I generate random whole numbers between two specified variables in JavaScript, e.g.  and  would output any of ?

Q: What is The Rule of Three?

- What does copying an object mean?

- What are the copy constructor and the copy assignment operator?

- When do I need to declare them myself?

- How can I prevent my objects from being copied?

Q: How do I reduce the opacity of an element's background using CSS?

Is it possible, using CSS only, to make the  of an element semi-transparent but have the content (text & images) of the element opaque?

I'd like to accomplish this without having the text and the background as two separate elements.

When trying:








It looks like child elements are subjected to the opacity of their parents, so  is relative to the  of the parent.

Q: Get selected text from a drop-down list (select box) using jQuery

How can I get the selected text (not the selected value) from a drop-down list in jQuery?

Q: Remove duplicate values from a JavaScript array

I have a very simple JavaScript array that may or may not contain duplicates.

I need to remove the duplicates and put the unique values in a new array.

I could point to all the code that I've tried but I think it's useless because they don't work. I accept jQuery solutions too.
Similar question:

- Get all non-unique values (i.e.: duplicate/more than one occurrence) in an array

Q: When do you use Git rebase instead of Git merge?

When is it recommended to use Git rebase vs. Git merge?

Do I still need to merge after a successful rebase?

Q: Finding and deleting duplicate values in a SQL table

It's easy to find duplicates with one field:

So if we have a table

This query will give us John, Sam, Tom, Tom because they all have the same .

However, what I want is to get duplicates with the same  and .

That is, I want to get "Tom", "Tom".

The reason I need this: I made a mistake, and allowed inserting duplicate  and  values. Now I need to remove/change the duplicates, so I need to find them first.

Q: Do I commit the package-lock.json file created by npm 5?

npm 5 was released today and one of the new features include deterministic installs with the creation of a  file.

Is this file supposed to be kept in source control?

I'm assuming it's similar to  and , both of which are supposed to be kept in source control.

Q: How can I check if an object has an attribute?

How do I check if an object has some attribute? For example:

How do I tell if  has the attribute  before using it?

Q: How can I make a div not larger than its contents?

I have a layout similar to:

I would like for the  to only expand to as wide as my  becomes.

Q: How do you stash an untracked file?

I have changes to a file, plus a new file, and would like to use git stash to put them away while I switch to another task.  But git stash by itself stashes only the changes to the existing file; the new file remains in my working tree, cluttering up my future work.  How do I stash this untracked file?

Q: How to format numbers as currency strings?

I would like to format a price in JavaScript. I'd like a function which takes a  as an argument and returns a  formatted like this:

How can I do this?

Q: How to print without a newline or space

Consider these examples using  in Python:

Either a newline or a space is added between each value. How can I avoid that, so that the output is  instead? In other words, how can I "append" strings to the standard output stream?

Q: How to check if a variable is set in Bash

How do I know if a variable is set in Bash?

For example, how do I check if the user gave the first parameter to a function?

Q: What's the difference between SCSS and Sass?

From what I've been reading, Sass is a language that makes CSS more powerful with variable and math support. 

What's the difference with SCSS? Is it supposed to be the same language? Similar? Different?

Q: .prop() vs .attr()

So jQuery 1.6 has the new function .

or in this case do they do the same thing?

And if I do have to switch to using , all the old  calls will break if i switch to 1.6?

UPDATE








(see also this fiddle: http://jsfiddle.net/maniator/JpUF2/)

The console logs the  as a string, and the  as a string, but the  as a , Why? And how does that affect my coding in the future?

Q: How do I set a variable to the output of a command in Bash?

I have a pretty simple script that is something like the following:

When I run this script from the command line and pass it the arguments, I am not getting any output.  However, when I run the commands contained within the  variable, I am able to get output.

How can one take the results of a command that needs to be run within a script, save it to a variable, and then output that variable on the screen?

Q: How do I get a console-like connection into a Docker container's shell?

I'm trying to SSH into one of my Docker containers running the WordPress base image to inspect the files/directories that were created during the initial build.

I tried to run , but that didn't do anything.

Even if it did, I'd rather have a console where I can traverse the directory structure, rather than run a single command.

Is something like this possible with Docker, and if so, how?

Q: What is a non-capturing group in regular expressions?

How are non-capturing groups, i.e., , used in regular expressions and what are they good for?

Q: Difference between decimal, float and double in .NET?

What is the difference between ,  and  in .NET?

When would someone use one of these?

Q: How to replace a character by a newline in Vim

I'm trying to replace each  in the current file by a new line:

But it inserts what looks like a  instead of an actual newline. The file is not in DOS mode or anything.

What should I do?

If you are curious, like me, check the question Why is \r a newline for Vim? as well.

Q: Calling a function of a module by using its name (a string)

How do I call a function, using a string with the function's name? For example:

Q: What are the basic rules and idioms for operator overloading?

Note: The answers were given in a specific order, and have received varying amounts of votes over time. Since the order of answers depends on your answer sorting preferences, here's an index of the answers in the order in which they make the most sense:

- The General Syntax of Operator Overloading in C++

- The Three Basic Rules of Operator Overloading in C++

- The Decision between Member and Non-member

- Common Operators to Overload

- Assignment Operator

- Stream Insertion and Extraction

- Function Call Operator

- Logical Operators

- Arithmetic Operators

- Subscript Operator

- Operators for Pointer-like Types

- Comparison Operators, Including C++20 Three-Way Comparison

- Conversion Operators

- Overloading new and delete

- Summary of Canonical Function Signatures

(Note: This is meant to be an entry to Stack Overflow's C++ FAQ. If you want to critique the idea of providing an FAQ in this form, then the posting on meta that started all this would be the place to do that. Answers to that question are monitored in the C++ chatroom, where the FAQ idea started in the first place, so your answer is very likely to get read by those who came up with the idea.)

Q: What is JSONP, and why was it created?

I understand JSON, but not JSONP. Wikipedia's document on JSON is (was) the top search result for JSONP. It says this:

  

JSONP or "JSON with padding" is a JSON extension wherein a prefix is specified as an input argument of the call itself.

Huh? What call? That doesn't make any sense to me. JSON is a data format. There's no call.

The 2nd search result is from some guy named Remy, who writes this about JSONP:

  

JSONP is script tag injection, passing the response from the server in to a user specified function.

I can sort of understand that, but it's still not making any sense.

So what is JSONP? Why was it created (what problem does it solve)? And why would I use it? 

Addendum: I've just created a new page for JSONP on Wikipedia; it now has a clear and thorough description of JSONP, based on jvenema's answer.

Q: How do I generate a random integer in C#?

How do I generate a random integer in C#?

Q: Throw away local commits in Git

Due to some bad cherry-picking, my local Git repository is currently five commits ahead of the origin, and not in a good state. I want to get rid of all these commits and start over again.

Obviously, deleting my working directory and re-cloning would do it, but downloading everything from GitHub again seems like overkill, and not a good use of my time.

Maybe  is what I need, but I don't want to end up 10 commits ahead of the origin (or even six), even if it does get the code itself back to the right state. I just want to pretend the last half-hour never happened.

Is there a simple command that will do this? It seems like an obvious use case, but I'm not finding any examples of it.

Note that this question is specifically about commits, not about:

- untracked files

- unstaged changes

- staged, but uncommitted changes

Q: How to create an array containing 1...N

I'm looking for any alternatives to the below for creating a JavaScript array containing 1 through to N where N is only known at runtime.

To me it feels like there should be a way of doing this without the loop.

Q: JavaScript check if variable exists (is defined/initialized)

Which method of checking if a variable has been initialized is better/correct?
(Assuming the variable could hold anything (string, int, object, function, etc.))

or

or

Q: JavaScript equivalent to printf/String.Format

I'm looking for a good JavaScript equivalent of the C/PHP  or for C#/Java programmers,  ( for .NET).

My basic requirement is a thousand separator format for numbers for now, but something that handles lots of combinations (including dates) would be good.

I realize Microsoft's Ajax library provides a version of , but we don't want the entire overhead of that framework.

Q: Indent multiple lines quickly in vi

It should be trivial, and it might even be in the help, but I can't figure out how to navigate it. How do I indent multiple lines quickly in vi?

Q: Get the size of the screen, current web page and browser window

How can I get , , , , , , , , ,  which will work in all major browsers?

Q: $(document).ready equivalent without jQuery

I have a script that uses , but it doesn't use anything else from jQuery. I'd like to lighten it up by removing the jQuery dependency.

How can I implement my own  functionality without using jQuery? I know that  using  will not be the same, as  fires after all images, frames, etc. have been loaded.

Q: How to make a great R reproducible example

When discussing performance with colleagues, teaching, sending a bug report or searching for guidance on mailing lists and here on Stack Overflow, a reproducible example is often asked and always helpful.

What are your tips for creating an excellent example? How do you paste data structures from r in a text format? What other information should you include?

Are there other tricks in addition to using ,  or ?  When should you include  or  statements?  Which reserved words should one avoid, in addition to , , , etc.?

How does one make a great r reproducible example?

Q: Limiting floats to two decimal points

I want  to be rounded to 13.95. I tried using , but I get:

Editor's note: For the analogous issue with the standard library Decimal class, see How can I format a decimal to always show 2 decimal places?

Q: Why are elementwise additions much faster in separate loops than in a combined loop?

Suppose , , , and  point to heap memory, and my numerical code has the following core loop.

This loop is executed 10,000 times via another outer  loop. To speed it up, I changed the code to:

Compiled on Microsoft Visual C++ 10.0 with full optimization and SSE2 enabled for 32-bit on a Intel Core 2 Duo (x64), the first example takes 5.5 seconds and the double-loop example takes only 1.9 seconds.

Disassembly for the first loop basically looks like this (this block is repeated about five times in the full program):

Each loop of the double loop example produces this code (the following block is repeated about three times):

The question turned out to be of no relevance, as the behavior severely depends on the sizes of the arrays (n) and the CPU cache. So if there is further interest, I rephrase the question:

- 

Could you provide some solid insight into the details that lead to the different cache behaviors as illustrated by the five regions on the following graph?

- 

It might also be interesting to point out the differences between CPU/cache architectures, by providing a similar graph for these CPUs.

Here is the full code. It uses TBB  for higher resolution timing, which can be disabled by not defining the  Macro:

It shows FLOPS for different values of .

Q: What's the simplest way to print a Java array?

In Java, arrays don't override , so if you try to print one directly, you get the  + '@' + the hex of the  of the array, as defined by :

But usually, we'd actually want something more like . What's the simplest way of doing that? Here are some example inputs and outputs:

A: Use URLSearchParams to get parameters from the query string.

For example:

Update: Jan-2022

Using  is faster than using  and better supported.

This approach comes with the caveat that you can no longer iterate over query parameters.

Update: June-2021

For a specific case when you need all query params:

Update: Sep-2018

You can use URLSearchParams which is simple and has decent (but not complete) browser support.

Original

You don't need jQuery for that purpose. You can use just some pure JavaScript:

Usage:

NOTE: If a parameter is present several times (), you will get the first value (). There is no standard about this and usages vary, see for example this question: Authoritative position of duplicate HTTP GET query keys.

NOTE: The function is case-sensitive. If you prefer case-insensitive parameter name, add 'i' modifier to RegExp

NOTE: If you're getting a no-useless-escape eslint error, you can replace  with .

This is an update based on the new URLSearchParams specs to achieve the same result more succinctly. See answer titled "URLSearchParams" below.

A: The correct way to avoid SQL injection attacks, no matter which database you use, is to separate the data from SQL, so that data stays data and will never be interpreted as commands by the SQL parser. It is possible to create an SQL statement with correctly formatted data parts, but if you don't fully understand the details, you should always use prepared statements and parameterized queries. These are SQL statements that are sent to and parsed by the database server separately from any parameters. This way it is impossible for an attacker to inject malicious SQL.

You basically have two options to achieve this:

- 

Using PDO (for any supported database driver):

- 

Using MySQLi (for MySQL):

Since PHP 8.2+ we can make use of  which prepares, binds parameters, and executes SQL statement in one method:

Up to PHP8.1:

If you're connecting to a database other than MySQL, there is a driver-specific second option that you can refer to (for example,  and  for PostgreSQL). PDO is the universal option.

Correctly setting up the connection
PDO

Note that when using PDO to access a MySQL database real prepared statements are not used by default. To fix this you have to disable the emulation of prepared statements. An example of creating a connection using PDO is:

In the above example, the error mode isn't strictly necessary, but it is advised to add it. This way PDO will inform you of all MySQL errors by means of throwing the .

What is mandatory, however, is the first  line, which tells PDO to disable emulated prepared statements and use real prepared statements. This makes sure the statement and the values aren't parsed by PHP before sending it to the MySQL server (giving a possible attacker no chance to inject malicious SQL).

Although you can set the  in the options of the constructor, it's important to note that 'older' versions of PHP (before 5.3.6) silently ignored the charset parameter in the DSN.
Mysqli

For mysqli we have to follow the same routine:

Explanation

The SQL statement you pass to  is parsed and compiled by the database server. By specifying parameters (either a  or a named parameter like  in the example above) you tell the database engine where you want to filter on. Then when you call , the prepared statement is combined with the parameter values you specify.

The important thing here is that the parameter values are combined with the compiled statement, not an SQL string. SQL injection works by tricking the script into including malicious strings when it creates SQL to send to the database. So by sending the actual SQL separately from the parameters, you limit the risk of ending up with something you didn't intend.

Any parameters you send when using a prepared statement will just be treated as strings (although the database engine may do some optimization so parameters may end up as numbers too, of course). In the example above, if the  variable contains  the result would simply be a search for the string , and you will not end up with an empty table.

Another benefit of using prepared statements is that if you execute the same statement many times in the same session it will only be parsed and compiled once, giving you some speed gains.

Oh, and since you asked about how to do it for an insert, here's an example (using PDO):

Can prepared statements be used for dynamic queries?

While you can still use prepared statements for the query parameters, the structure of the dynamic query itself cannot be parametrized and certain query features cannot be parametrized.

For these specific scenarios, the best thing to do is use a whitelist filter that restricts the possible values.

A: Now with PHP 8 you can do this using str_contains:

Please note: The  function will always return true if the $needle (the substring to search for in your string) is empty.

You should first make sure the $needle (your substring) is not empty.

Output: 

It's also worth noting that the new  function is case-sensitive.

Output: 

RFC

Before PHP 8

You can use the  function which is used to find the occurrence of one string inside another one:

Note that the use of  is deliberate (neither  nor  will return the desired result);  returns either the offset at which the needle string begins in the haystack string, or the boolean  if the needle isn't found. Since 0 is a valid offset and 0 is "falsey", we can't use simpler constructs like .

A: TL;DR

Using the Set constructor and the spread syntax:

( Note that var  will be an array...   turns it into a set, but [... ] turns it back into an array again )

"Smart" but naïve way

Basically, we iterate over the array and, for each element, check if the first position of this element in the array is equal to the current position. Obviously, these two positions are different for duplicate elements.

Using the 3rd ("this array") parameter of the filter callback we can avoid a closure of the array variable:

Although concise, this algorithm is not particularly efficient for large arrays (quadratic time).
Hashtables to the rescue

This is how it's usually done. The idea is to place each element in a hashtable and then check for its presence instantly. This gives us linear time, but has at least two drawbacks:

- since hash keys can only be strings or symbols in JavaScript, this code doesn't distinguish numbers and "numeric strings". That is,  will return just 

- for the same reason, all objects will be considered equal:  will return just .

That said, if your arrays contain only primitives and you don't care about types (e.g. it's always numbers), this solution is optimal.
The best from two worlds

A universal solution combines both approaches: it uses hash lookups for primitives and linear search for objects.

sort | uniq

Another option is to sort the array first, and then remove each element equal to the preceding one:

Again, this doesn't work with objects (because all objects are equal for ). Additionally, we silently change the original array as a side effect - not good! However, if your input is already sorted, this is the way to go (just remove  from the above).
Unique by...

Sometimes it's desired to uniquify a list based on some criteria other than just equality, for example, to filter out objects that are different, but share some property. This can be done elegantly by passing a callback. This "key" callback is applied to each element, and elements with equal "keys" are removed. Since  is expected to return a primitive, hash table will work fine here:

A particularly useful  is  which will remove objects that are physically different, but "look" the same:

If the  is not primitive, you have to resort to the linear search:

In ES6 you can use a :

or a :

which both also work with non-primitive keys.
First or last?

When removing objects by a key, you might to want to keep the first of "equal" objects or the last one.

Use the  variant above to keep the first, and the  to keep the last:

Libraries

Both underscore and Lo-Dash provide  methods. Their algorithms are basically similar to the first snippet above and boil down to this:

This is quadratic, but there are nice additional goodies, like wrapping native , ability to uniqify by a key ( in their parlance), and optimizations for already sorted arrays.

If you're using jQuery and can't stand anything without a dollar before it, it goes like this:

which is, again, a variation of the first snippet.
Performance

Function calls are expensive in JavaScript, therefore the above solutions, as concise as they are, are not particularly efficient. For maximal performance, replace  with a loop and get rid of other function calls:

This chunk of ugly code does the same as the snippet #3 above, but an order of magnitude faster (as of 2017 it's only twice as fast - JS core folks are doing a great job!)

ES6

ES6 provides the Set object, which makes things a whole lot easier:

or

Note that, unlike in python, ES6 sets are iterated in insertion order, so this code preserves the order of the original array.

However, if you need an array with unique elements, why not use sets right from the beginning?
Generators

A "lazy", generator-based version of  can be built on the same basis:

- take the next value from the argument

- if it's been seen already, skip it

- otherwise, yield it and add it to the set of already seen values

A: tests for the existence of a key in a :

Use  to provide a default value when the key does not exist:

To provide a default value for every key, either use  on each assignment:

...or better, use  from the  module:

A: Try:

Check MySQL Options.

Note 1: It is better to use the full path of the SQL file .

Note 2: Use  and  with  to keep the routines and triggers of the original database. They are not copied by default.

Note 3 You may have to create the (empty) database from MySQL if it doesn't exist already and the exported SQL doesn't contain  (exported with  or  option) before you can import it.

A: There are some examples on the Mozilla Developer Network page:

Here's the logic behind it. It's a simple rule of three:

 returns a  between 0 (inclusive) and 1 (exclusive). So we have an interval like this:

Now, we'd like a number between  (inclusive) and  (exclusive):

We can use the  to get the correspondent in the [min, max) interval. But, first we should factor a little bit the problem by subtracting  from the second interval:

This gives:

We may now apply  and then calculate the correspondent. Let's choose a random number:

So, in order to find , we would do:

Don't forget to add  back, so that we get a number in the [min, max) interval:

That was the first function from MDN. The second one, returns an integer between  and , both inclusive.

Now for getting integers, you could use ,  or .

You could use , this however gives a non-even distribution. Both,  and  only have approximately half the chance to roll:

With  excluded from the interval, it has an even less chance to roll than .

With  you have a perfectly even distribution.

You can't use  and  in that equation because  now had a slightly less chance to roll, but you can roll the (unwanted)  result too.

A: To revert changes made to your working copy, do this:

Or equivalently, for git version >= 2.23:

To revert changes made to the index (i.e., that you have added), do this. Warning this will reset all of your unpushed commits to master!:

To revert a change that you have committed:

To remove untracked files (e.g., new files, generated files):

Or untracked directories (e.g., new or automatically generated directories):

A: isn’t documented, because it’s not a feature of Git.

Git cannot add a completely empty directory. People who want to track empty directories in Git have created the convention of putting files called  in these directories. The file could be called anything; Git assigns no special significance to this name.

There is a competing convention of adding a  file to the empty directories to get them tracked, but some people see this as confusing since the goal is to keep the empty directories, not ignore them;  is also used to list files that should be ignored by Git when looking for untracked files.

A: Assuming you have a button with the id , try this example:

I got the code from the article Smoothly scroll to an element without a jQuery plugin. And I have tested it on the example below.

A: Use .

If you want to remove the file from the Git repository and the filesystem, use:

But if you want to remove the file only from the Git repository and not remove it from the filesystem, use:  

And to push changes to remote repo

A: Once you know the hash of the stash commit you dropped, you can apply it as a stash:

Or, you can create a separate branch for it with

After that, you can do whatever you want with all the normal tools. When you’re done, just blow the branch away.
Finding the hash

If you have only just popped it and the terminal is still open, you will still have the hash value printed by  on screen (thanks, Dolda).

Otherwise, you can find this way in Linux, Unix or Git Bash for Windows:

… or in PowerShell for Windows:

This will show you all the commits at the tips of your commit graph which are no longer referenced from any branch or tag – every lost commit, including every stash commit you’ve ever created, will be somewhere in that graph.

The easiest way to find the stash commit you want is probably to pass that list straight to :

… or in PowerShell for Windows:

This will launch a repository browser showing you every single commit in the repository ever, regardless of whether it is reachable or not.

You can replace  there with something like  if you prefer a nice graph on the console over a separate GUI app.

To spot stash commits, look for commit messages of this form:

        WIP on somebranch: commithash Some old commit message

Note: The commit message will only be in this form (starting with "WIP on") if you did not supply a message when you did .

A: Use .

For example, to reload whenever an element with  is clicked:

The  function takes an optional parameter that can be set to  to force a reload from the server rather than the cache. The parameter defaults to , so by default the page may reload from the browser's cache.

A: The  command can be used to copy files.

One specific file can be copied to the container like:

One specific file can be copied from the container like:

For emphasis,  is a container ID, not an image ID. (Use  to view listing which includes s.)

Multiple files contained by the folder  can be copied into the  folder using:

Reference: Docker CLI documentation for 

In Docker versions prior to 1.8, it was only possible to copy files from a container to the host. Not from the host to a container.

A: jQuery 1.6+

To change the  property you should use the  function.

jQuery 1.5 and below

The  function doesn't exist, but  does similar:

Set the disabled attribute.

To enable again, the proper method is to use 

In any version of jQuery

You can always rely on the actual DOM object and is probably a little faster than the other two options if you are only dealing with one element:

The advantage to using the  or  methods is that you can set the property for a bunch of selected items.

Note: In 1.6 there is a  method that sounds a lot like , but it SHOULD NOT BE USED on native properties like   Excerpt from the documentation:

  

Note: Do not use this method to remove native properties such as checked, disabled, or selected. This will remove the property completely and, once removed, cannot be added again to element. Use .prop() to set these properties to false instead.

In fact, I doubt there are many legitimate uses for this method, boolean props are done in such a way that you should set them to false instead of "removing" them like their "attribute" counterparts in 1.5

A: NOTE: You can add other branches to exclude like master and dev if your workflow has those as a possible ancestor. Usually I branch off of a "sprint-start" tag and ,  and  are not ancestors.

First, list locally-tracking branches that were merged in remote (consider using  flag to list all remote-tracking branches).

You might see a few branches you don't want to remove. We can add arguments to skip important branches that we don't want to delete like master or a develop. The following command will skip the / branch and anything that has 'dev' in it.

The first part () excludes the current branch and any branch checked out in another worktree.

If you want to skip a branch, you can add it to the grep command as below. The branch  will not be deleted.

To delete all local branches that are already merged into the currently checked out branch:

You can see that  and  are excluded in case they are an ancestor.

You can delete a merged local branch with:

To force deletion of an unmerged branch, use:

To delete it from the remote use:

Once you delete the branch from the remote, you can prune to get rid of remote tracking branches with:

or prune individual remote tracking branches, as the other answer suggests, with:

A: You can use the substring function:







This is the accepted answer, but as per the conversations below, the slice syntax is much clearer:







Neither method mutates

A: is the command you're looking for.

A: is the shortest and most Pythonic.

In fact, you can do much more with this syntax. The  syntax gets the nth-to-last element. So  gets the last element,  gets the second to last, etc, all the way down to , which gives you the first element.

You can also set list elements in this way. For instance:

Note that getting a list item by index will raise an  if the expected item doesn't exist. This means that  will raise an exception if  is empty, because an empty list can't have a last element.

A: You want the  operator. Specifically:

A: In ES6 using Array  and  methods.

Shorter version using spread operator.

Start from 1 by passing map function to Array , with an object with a  property:

A: If your excess commits are only visible to you, you can just do

to move back to where the origin is. This will reset the state of the repository to the previous commit. WARNING: This also discards all your uncommitted local file changes.

Doing a  makes new commits to remove old commits in a way that keeps everyone's history sane.

A: I used the idea from Kerry's answer, but I simplified it since I was just looking for something simple for my specific purpose. Here is what I have:

The regex uses two lookahead assertions:

- a positive one to look for any point in the string that has a multiple of 3 digits in a row after it,

- a negative assertion to make sure that point only has exactly a multiple of 3 digits. The replacement expression puts a comma there.

For example, if you pass it , the positive assertion will match every spot to the left of the 7 (since  is a multiple of 3 digits,  is a multiple of 3 digits, , etc.).

The negative assertion checks that the multiple of 3 digits does not have any digits after it.  has a period after it so it is exactly a multiple of 3 digits, so a comma goes there.  is a multiple of 3 digits, but it has a  after it, so those 3 digits are part of a group of 4, and a comma does not go there. Similarly for .

 is 6 digits, which is a multiple of 3, so a comma goes before that.  is a multiple of 3, but it has a  after it, so no comma goes there. And so on. The  keeps the regex from putting a comma at the beginning of the string.

neu-rah mentioned that this function adds commas in undesirable places if there are more than 3 digits after the decimal point. If this is a problem, you can use this function:

T.J. Crowder pointed out that now that JavaScript has lookbehind (support info), it can be solved in the regular expression itself:

 is a negative lookbehind that says the match can't be preceded by a  followed by zero or more digits. The negative lookbehind is faster than the  and  solution (comparison), at least in V8.

A: With version 2.13 of Git and later,  can be used instead of :

Editor’s note:  is an optional performance optimization that became available in version 2.8, and fetches up to 8 submodules at a time in parallel — see .

With version 1.9 of Git up until version 2.12 ( flag only available in version 2.8+):

With version 1.6.5 of Git and later, you can use:

For already cloned repos, or older Git versions, use:

A: Create the branch using a commit hash:

Or by using a symbolic reference:

To checkout the branch while creating it, use:

A: If it's the first time you check-out a repo you need to use  first:

For git 1.8.2 or above, the option  was added to support updating to latest tips of remote branches:

This has the added benefit of respecting any "non default" branches specified in the  or  files (if you happen to have any, default is origin/master, in which case some of the other answers here would work as well).

For git 1.7.3 or above you can use (but the below gotchas around what update does still apply):

or:

if you want to pull your submodules to latest commits instead of the current commit the repo points to.

See git-submodule(1) for details

A: Python calls this concept "slicing" and it works on more than just strings. Take a look here for a comprehensive introduction.

A: Simply group on both of the columns.

Note: the older ANSI standard is to have all non-aggregated columns in the GROUP BY but this has changed with the idea of "functional dependency":

  

In relational database theory, a functional dependency is a constraint between two sets of attributes in a relation from a database. In other words, functional dependency is a constraint that describes the relationship between attributes in a relation.

Support is not consistent:

- Recent PostgreSQL supports it.

- SQL Server (as at SQL Server 2017) still requires all non-aggregated columns in the GROUP BY.

- MySQL is unpredictable and you need :

- GROUP BY lname ORDER BY showing wrong results;

- Which is the least expensive aggregate function in the absence of ANY() (see comments in accepted answer).

- Oracle isn't mainstream enough (warning: humour, I don't know about Oracle).

A: From the  command line interface,

First, choose your database

Then, this shows all tables in the current schema:

Programmatically (or from the  interface too, of course):

The system tables live in the  database.

A: How I would do this

If I have a local branch from a remote one, I don't feel comfortable with merging other branches than this one with the remote. Also I would not push my changes, until I'm happy with what I want to push and also I wouldn't push things at all, that are only for me and my local repository. In your description it seems, that  is only for you? So no reason to publish it.

git always tries to respect yours and others changes, and so will . I don't think I can explain it appropriately, so have a look at the Git book - Rebasing or git-ready: Intro into rebasing for a little description. It's a quite cool feature

A: where you only need to include enough of the SHA hash to identify the commits. The order of the SHAs does not matter. The output (which includes the relative path, not just the file name) follows this format:

You can also do, for example

to see the differences between the tenth latest commit and the fifth latest (or so).

A: An optional prefix  which negates the pattern; any matching file excluded by
a previous pattern will become included again. If a negated pattern matches,
this will override lower precedence patterns sources.

A: Bash Space-Separated (e.g., )

Output from copy-pasting the block above

Usage

Bash Equals-Separated (e.g., )

Output from copy-pasting the block above

Usage

To better understand  search for "Substring Removal" in this guide. It is functionally equivalent to  which calls a needless subprocess or  which calls two needless subprocesses.

Using bash with getopt[s]

getopt(1) limitations (older, relatively-recent  versions):

- can't handle arguments that are empty strings

- can't handle arguments with embedded whitespace

More recent  versions don't have these limitations. For more information, see these docs.

POSIX getopts

Additionally, the POSIX shell and others offer  which doen't have these limitations. I've included a simplistic  example.

Output from copy-pasting the block above

Usage

The advantages of  are:

- It's more portable, and will work in other shells like .

- It can handle multiple single options like  in the typical Unix way, automatically.

The disadvantage of  is that it can only handle short options (, not ) without additional code.

There is a getopts tutorial which explains what all of the syntax and variables mean.  In bash, there is also , which might be informative.

A: Use :

A: To stash your working directory including untracked files (especially those that are in the ) then you probably want to use this cmd:

Alternatively, you can use the shorthand  instead of , or simply  (see warning below for this one) which stashes all files, including untracked and ignored files. This behaviour changed in 2018, so make sure your git is up to date.

Warning: there seems to be (or have been) situations in which contents of ignored directories could be deleted permanently. See this archived website for more information.

A: From ES6/ES2015, default parameters are in the language specification.

just works.

Reference: Default Parameters - MDN

Default function parameters allow formal parameters to be initialized with default values if no value or undefined is passed.

In ES6, you can simulate default named parameters via destructuring:

Pre ES2015,

There are a lot of ways, but this is my preferred method — it lets you pass in anything you want, including false or null. ()

A: Since git 2.13, there is a command to save a specific path to the stash: . For example:

With earlier versions:

You can do that using  (or ) -- you'll enter interactive mode where you'll be presented with each hunk that was changed. Use  to skip the files that you don't want to stash,  when you encounter the one that you want to stash, and  to quit and leave the remaining hunks unstashed.   will stash the shown hunk and the rest of the hunks in that file.

Not the most user-friendly approach, but it gets the work done if you really need it.

A: You can use the qualities of the abstract equality operator to do this:

Because  is true, the above code will catch both  and .

A: You need to double the  and :

Here's the relevant part of the Python documentation for format string syntax:

  

Format strings contain “replacement fields” surrounded by curly braces . Anything that is not contained in braces is considered literal text, which is copied unchanged to the output. If you need to include a brace character in the literal text, it can be escaped by doubling:  and .

A: Try :

See zweiterlinde's answer, which offers good advice about asking forgiveness! It is a very Pythonic approach!

The general practice in Python is that, if the property is likely to be there most of the time, simply call it and either let the exception propagate, or trap it with a try/except block. This will likely be faster than . If the property is likely to not be there most of the time, or you're not sure, using  will probably be faster than repeatedly falling into an exception block.

A: If you take advantage of how  works, you could simply create an object with a custom  (or ) function that changes what it returns each time it is used such that it satisfies all three conditions.

The reason this works is due to the use of the loose equality operator. When using loose equality, if one of the operands is of a different type than the other, the engine will attempt to convert one to the other. In the case of an object on the left and a number on the right, it will attempt to convert the object to a number by first calling  if it is callable, and failing that, it will call . I used  in this case simply because it's what came to mind,  would make more sense. If I instead returned a string from , the engine would have then attempted to convert the string to a number giving us the same end result, though with a slightly longer path.

A: (Usually) The right way

where  is a parameter expansion which evaluates to nothing if  is unset, and substitutes the string  otherwise.
Quotes Digression

Quotes can be omitted (so we can say  instead of ) because this syntax & usage guarantees this will only expand to something that does not require quotes (since it either expands to  (which contains no word breaks so it needs no quotes), or to nothing (which results in , which conveniently evaluates to the same value (true) that  does as well)).

However, while quotes can be safely omitted, and it was not immediately obvious to all (it wasn't even apparent to the first author of this quotes explanation who is also a major Bash coder), it would sometimes be better to write the solution with quotes as , at the very small possible cost of an O(1) speed penalty.  The first author also added this as a comment next to the code using this solution giving the URL to this answer, which now also includes the explanation for why the quotes can be safely omitted.
(Often) The wrong way

This is often wrong because it doesn't distinguish between a variable that is unset and a variable that is set to the empty string. That is to say, if , then the above solution will output "var is blank".

The distinction between unset and "set to the empty string" is essential in situations where the user has to specify an extension, or additional list of properties, and that not specifying them defaults to a non-empty value, whereas specifying the empty string should make the script use an empty extension or list of additional properties.

The distinction may not be essential in every scenario though. In those cases   will be just fine.

A: What it does "extra" is it allows random intervals that do not start with 1.
So you can get a random number from 10 to 15 for example. Flexibility.

A: Yes, it is possible:

To chain to a particular superclass constructor instead of one in the same class, use  instead of . Note that you can only chain to one constructor, and it has to be the first statement in your constructor body.

See also this related question, which is about C# but where the same principles apply.

A: Warning: this doesn't work for arrays of primitives (see the comments).

Since java-8 you can now use Streams.

To check whether an array of ,  or  contains a value use ,  or  respectively.

Example

A: In Python 3, you can use the  and  parameters of the  function:

To not add a newline to the end of the string:

To not add a space between all the function arguments you want to print:

You can pass any string to either parameter, and you can use both parameters at the same time.

If you are having trouble with buffering, you can flush the output by adding  keyword argument:

Python 2.6 and 2.7

From Python 2.6 you can either import the  function from Python 3 using the  module:

which allows you to use the Python 3 solution above.

However, note that the  keyword is not available in the version of the  function imported from  in Python 2; it only works in Python 3, more specifically 3.3 and later. In earlier versions you'll still need to flush manually with a call to . You'll also have to rewrite all other print statements in the file where you do this import.

Or you can use 

You may also need to call

to ensure  is flushed immediately.

A: I cannot understand how to identify a function with a log time.

The most common attributes of logarithmic running-time function are that:

- the choice of the next element on which to perform some action is one of several possibilities, and

- only one will need to be chosen.

or

- the elements on which the action is performed are digits of n

This is why, for example, looking up people in a phone book is O(log n). You don't need to check every person in the phone book to find the right one; instead, you can simply divide-and-conquer by looking based on where their name is alphabetically, and in every section you only need to explore a subset of each section before you eventually find someone's phone number.

Of course, a bigger phone book will still take you a longer time, but it won't grow as quickly as the proportional increase in the additional size.

We can expand the phone book example to compare other kinds of operations and their running time. We will assume our phone book has businesses (the "Yellow Pages") which have unique names and people (the "White Pages") which may not have unique names. A phone number is assigned to at most one person or business. We will also assume that it takes constant time to flip to a specific page.

Here are the running times of some operations we might perform on the phone book, from fastest to slowest:

- 

O(1) (in the worst case): Given the page that a business's name is on and the business name, find the phone number.

- 

O(1) (in the average case): Given the page that a person's name is on and their name, find the phone number.

- 

O(log n): Given a person's name, find the phone number by picking a random point about halfway through the part of the book you haven't searched yet, then checking to see whether the person's name is at that point. Then repeat the process about halfway through the part of the book where the person's name lies. (This is a binary search for a person's name.)

- 

O(n): Find all people whose phone numbers contain the digit "5".

- 

O(n): Given a phone number, find the person or business with that number.

- 

O(n log n): There was a mix-up at the printer's office, and our phone book had all its pages inserted in a random order. Fix the ordering so that it's correct by looking at the first name on each page and then putting that page in the appropriate spot in a new, empty phone book.

For the below examples, we're now at the printer's office. Phone books are waiting to be mailed to each resident or business, and there's a sticker on each phone book identifying where it should be mailed to. Every person or business gets one phone book.

- 

O(n log n): We want to personalize the phone book, so we're going to find each person or business's name in their designated copy, then circle their name in the book and write a short thank-you note for their patronage.

- 

O(n2): A mistake occurred at the office, and every entry in each of the phone books has an extra "0" at the end of the phone number. Take some white-out and remove each zero.

- 

O(n &middot; n!): We're ready to load the phonebooks onto the shipping dock. Unfortunately, the robot that was supposed to load the books has gone haywire: it's putting the books onto the truck in a random order! Even worse, it loads all the books onto the truck, then checks to see if they're in the right order, and if not, it unloads them and starts over. (This is the dreaded bogo sort.)

- 

O(nn): You fix the robot so that it's loading things correctly. The next day, one of your co-workers plays a prank on you and wires the loading dock robot to the automated printing systems. Every time the robot goes to load an original book, the factory printer makes a duplicate run of all the phonebooks! Fortunately, the robot's bug-detection systems are sophisticated enough that the robot doesn't try printing even more copies when it encounters a duplicate book for loading, but it still has to load every original and duplicate book that's been printed.

A: will let you connect to your Docker container, but this isn't really the same thing as .  If your container is running a webserver, for example,  will probably connect you to the stdout of the web server process.  It won't necessarily give you a shell.

The  command is probably what you are looking for; this will let you run arbitrary commands inside an existing container.  For example, to run  inside a container:

Of course, whatever command you are running must exist in the container filesystem; if your container doesn't have , this will fail with something like:

[If your container doesn't have  -- which is a common case for minimal images -- you may need to investigate other ways to explore the container filesystem.]

In the above command  is the name or ID of the target container.  It doesn't matter whether or not you're using ; just run  and use either the ID (a hexadecimal string displayed in the first column) or the name (displayed in the final column).  E.g., given:

I can run:

I could accomplish the same thing by running:

Similarly, I could start a shell in the container;

In commands shown in this answer, the  and  options (combined as ) are necessary to get an interactive shell:

- 

 keeps stdin connected; if you don't specify , the shell will simply exit.

- 

 allocates a tty device; if you don't specify , you won't have a very pleasant interactive experience (there will be no shell prompt or job control, for example).

If you're specifically using , there is a convenience  command that works very much like the  command, except:

- It defaults to the behavior of  and 

- It allows you to refer to containers by their service name in your  file.

For example, if you have a  like this:

Then you can run:

The equivalent  command would be something like:

A: You can try this basic approach:








It only works for a single line of text though, because we set the line's height to the same height as the containing box element.

A more versatile approach

This is another way to align text vertically. This solution will work for a single line and multiple lines of text, but it still requires a fixed height container:








The CSS just sizes the , vertically center aligns the  by setting the 's line-height equal to its height, and makes the  an inline-block with . Then it sets the line-height back to normal for the , so its contents will flow naturally inside the block.

Simulating table display

And here is another option, which may not work on older browsers that don't support  and  (basically just Internet Explorer 7). Using CSS we simulate table behavior (since tables support vertical alignment), and the HTML is the same as the second example:








Using absolute positioning

This technique uses an absolutely positioned element setting top, bottom, left and right to 0. It is described in more detail in an article in Smashing Magazine, Absolute Horizontal And Vertical Centering In CSS.

A: There are a couple of CSS 3 measurement units called:
Viewport-Percentage (or Viewport-Relative) Lengths
What are Viewport-Percentage Lengths?

From the linked W3 Candidate Recommendation above:

The viewport-percentage lengths are relative to the size of the initial containing block. When the height or width of the initial containing block is changed, they are scaled accordingly.

These units are  (viewport height),  (viewport width),  (viewport minimum length) and  (viewport maximum length).
How can this be used to make a divider fill the height of the browser?

For this question, we can make use of :  is equal to 1% of the viewport's height. That is to say,  is equal to the height of the browser window, regardless of where the element is situated in the DOM tree:
HTML

CSS

This is literally all that's needed. Here is a JSFiddle example of this in use.
What browsers support these new units?

This is currently supported on all up-to-date major browsers apart from Opera Mini. Check out Can I use... for further support.
How can this be used with multiple columns?

In the case of the question at hand, featuring a left and a right divider, here is a JSFiddle example showing a two-column layout involving both  and .
How is  different from ?

Take this layout for example:

The  tag here is set to 100% height, but because its containing  has 200 pixels height, 100% of 200 pixels becomes 200 pixels, not 100% of the  height. Using  instead means that the  tag will be 100% height of the  regardless of the  height. Take a look at this accompanying JSFiddle to easily see the difference!

A: In addition to backticks , command substitution can be done with  or , which I find easier to read, and allows for nesting.

Quoting () does matter to preserve multi-line variable values and it is safer to use with whitespace and special characters such as () and therefore advised; it is, however, optional on the right-hand side of an assignment when word splitting is not performed, so  would work fine.

A: I'm surprised nobody mentioned Number.prototype.toLocaleString.
It's implemented in JavaScript 1.5 (which was introduced in 1999), so it's basically supported across all major browsers.

It also works in Node.js as of v0.12 via inclusion of Intl.

If you want something different, Numeral.js might be interesting.

A: Since Java 5 you can use  or  for arrays within arrays. Note that the  version calls  on each object in the array. The output is even decorated in the exact way you're asking.

Examples:

- Simple Array:

Output:

- Nested Array:

Output:

-  Array:

Output:

-  Array:

Output:

A: You can either use array declaration or array literal (but only when you declare and affect the variable right away, array literals cannot be used for re-assigning an array).

For primitive types:

For classes, for example , it's the same:

The third way of initializing is useful when you declare an array first and then initialize it, pass an array as a function argument, or return an array. The explicit type is required.

A: It should just be:

 means show the changes in the cache/index (i.e. staged changes) against the current .  is a synonym for .

 and  does not point to , just difference with respect to . If you cherry pick what to commit using  (or ),  will return what is staged.

A: Use  instead of .

Substituting by  inserts a null character into the text. To get a newline, use . When searching for a newline, you’d still use , however. This asymmetry is due to the fact that  and  do slightly different things:

 matches an end of line (newline), whereas  matches a carriage return. On the other hand, in substitutions  inserts a null character whereas  inserts a newline (more precisely, it’s treated as the input CR). Here’s a small, non-interactive example to illustrate this, using the Vim command line feature (in other words, you can copy and paste the following into a terminal to run it).  shows a hexdump of the resulting file.

In other words,  has inserted the byte 0x00 into the text;  has inserted the byte 0x0a.

A: By default, Makefile targets are "file targets" - they are used to build files from other files. Make assumes its target is a file, and this makes writing Makefiles relatively easy:

However, sometimes, you want your Makefile to run commands that do not represent physical files in the file system. Good examples of this are the common targets "clean" and "all". Chances are this isn't the case, but you may potentially have a file named  in your main directory. In such a case Make will be confused because by default the  target would be associated with this file and Make will only run it when the file doesn't appear to be up-to-date with regards to its dependencies.

These special targets are called phony and you can explicitly tell Make they're not associated with files, e.g.:

Now  will run as expected even if you do have a file named .

In terms of Make, a phony target is simply a target that is always out-of-date, so whenever you run , it will run, independent from the state of the file system. Some common  targets that are often phony are: , , , , , , .

See also: GNU make manual: Phony Targets

A: The  class is used to create random numbers. (Pseudo-random that is of course.).

Example:

If you are going to create more than one random number, you should keep the  instance and reuse it. If you create new instances too close in time, they will produce the same series of random numbers as the random generator is seeded from the system clock.

A: The simplest way would be to use the native  function:

If that doesn't work for you, then there are the parseInt, unary plus, parseFloat with floor, and Math.round methods.
parseInt()

Unary plus

If your string is already in the form of an integer:

floor()

If your string is or might be a float and you want an integer:

Or, if you're going to be using Math.floor several times:

parseFloat()

If you're the type who forgets to put the radix in when you call parseInt, you can use parseFloat and round it however you like. Here I use floor.

round()

Interestingly, Math.round (like Math.floor) will do a string to number conversion, so if you want the number rounded (or if you have an integer in the string), this is a great way, maybe my favorite:

A: Let me try to explain this with an example.

Consider the following text:

Now, if I apply the regex below over it (I did not escape the slashes for clarity; when using it, slashes would have to be escaped to  )...

... I would get the following result:

But I don't care about the protocol -- I just want the host and path of the URL. So, I change the regex to include the non-capturing group .

Now, my result looks like this:

See? The first group has not been captured. The parser uses it to match the text, but ignores it later, in the final result.

EDIT:

As requested, let me try to explain groups too.

Well, groups serve many purposes. They can help you to extract exact information from a bigger match (which can also be named), they let you rematch a previous matched group, and can be used for substitutions. Let's try some examples, shall we?

Imagine you have some kind of XML or HTML (be aware that regex may not be the best tool for the job, but it is nice as an example). You want to parse the tags, so you could do something like this (I have added spaces to make it easier to understand):

The first regex has a named group (TAG), while the second one uses a common group. Both regexes do the same thing: they use the value from the first group (the name of the tag) to match the closing tag. The difference is that the first one uses the name to match the value, and the second one uses the group index (which starts at 1).

Let's try some substitutions now. Consider the following text:

Now, let's use this dumb regex over it:

This regex matches words with at least 3 characters, and uses groups to separate the first three letters. The result is this:

So, if we apply the substitution string:

... over it, we are trying to use the first group, add an underscore, use the third group, then the second group, add another underscore, and then the fourth group. The resulting string would be like the one below.

You can use named groups for substitutions too, using .

To play around with regexes, I recommend http://regex101.com/, which offers a good amount of details on how the regex works; it also offers a few regex engines to choose from.

A: The error comes from your dependency relying on an obsolete version of SSL, so you have two good, and two questionable-at-best options:

1. Try to just reinstall your dependency

- Delete your node_modules folder and rerun . If your dependency relies on compiling against whatever version of Node you have installed, this may immediately fix the problem. This is the least likely solution to work, but may fix the problem without any "real" work on your part so is always worth trying.

2. Update your dependency

- Almost all dependencies with this problem have a newer version available that you can install instead. Find out which version of your dependency corresponds to after Node 18 became the LTS version of Node, band uplift your dependency to that version.

This is, really, the only proper solution: update your dependencies, because just like Node.js itself, they can leave your project vulnerable to attacks and exploits.

3. Downgrade to Node.js v16.

- You can downgrade Node itself so that you're using a version that uses the old, insecure, version of LibSSL. That doesn't "solve" the problem of running insecure and potentially exploitable code, of course, but your code will at least run.

(You can either do that using the official Node installers, or you can use something like . For Windows, use .)

This is, obviously, a bad idea. As is the next one:

4. Tell Node to use the legacy OpenSSL provider

On Unix-like (Linux, macOS, Git bash, etc.):

On Windows command prompt:

On PowerShell:

When Node 18 had just become the active LTS options 1 and 2 weren't really available, but for anyone still finding this answer, 3 and 4 should no longer be considered serious options in any way.

A: Yes,  will be called after the execution of the  or  code blocks.

The only times  won't be called are:

- If you invoke 

- If you invoke 

- If the JVM crashes first

- If the JVM reaches an infinite loop (or some other non-interruptable, non-terminating statement) in the  or  block

- If the OS forcibly terminates the JVM process; e.g.,  on UNIX

- If the host system dies; e.g., power failure, hardware error, OS panic, et cetera

- If the  block is going to be executed by a daemon thread and all other non-daemon threads exit before  is called

A: Some time ago I had to implement an  function, to find out if a variable contained a numeric value, regardless of its type, it could be a  containing a numeric value (I had to consider also exponential notation, etc.), a  object, virtually anything could be passed to that function, I couldn't make any type assumptions,  taking care of type coercion (eg.  but  shouldn't be considered as ).

I think is worth sharing this set of +30 unit tests made to numerous function implementations, and also share the one that passes all my tests:

Note: This returns  for any numeric value, not only decimal (i.e., base ten) numbers as specified in the question.  In particular, this considers  to be numeric.

P.S. isNaN & isFinite have a confusing behavior due to forced conversion to number. In ES6, Number.isNaN & Number.isFinite would fix these issues. Keep that in mind when using them.

Update :
Here's how jQuery does it now (2.2-stable):

Update :
Angular 4.3:

A: Given a module  with method :

 can similarly be used on class instance bound methods, module-level methods, class methods... the list goes on.

A: Use the > command. To indent five lines, 5>>. To mark a block of lines and indent it, Vjj> to indent three lines (Vim only). To indent a curly-braces block, put your cursor on one of the curly braces and use >% or from anywhere inside block use >iB.

If you’re copying blocks of text around and need to align the indent of a block in its new location, use ]p instead of just p. This aligns the pasted block with the surrounding text.

Also, the  setting allows you to control how many spaces to indent.

A: HTML

The plain HTML way is to put it in a  wherein you specify the desired target URL in the  attribute.

If necessary, set CSS  on the form to keep it in the flow with the surrounding text. Instead of  in above example, you can also use . The only difference is that the  element allows children.

You'd intuitively expect to be able to use  analogous with the  element, but unfortunately no, this attribute does not exist according to HTML specification.
CSS

If CSS is allowed, simply use an  which you style to look like a button.

Or pick one of those many CSS libraries like Bootstrap.

Noted should be that, historically, the CSS  property worked as well in some browsers, but this was experimental and ended up being considered a misfeature. Only  or  are allowed on  elements.
JavaScript

If JavaScript is allowed, set the .

Instead of  in above example, you can also use . The only difference is that the  element allows children.

A: Intl.NumberFormat

JavaScript has a number formatter (part of the Internationalization API).








Use  in place of the first argument ( in the example) to use the system locale (the user locale in case the code is running in a browser). Further explanation of the locale code.

Here's a list of the currency codes.
Intl.NumberFormat vs Number.prototype.toLocaleString

A final note comparing this to the older .. They both offer essentially the same functionality. However, toLocaleString in its older incarnations (pre-Intl) does not actually support locales: it uses the system locale. So when debugging old browsers, be sure that you're using the correct version (MDN suggests to check for the existence of ). There isn't any need to worry about this at all if you don't care about old browsers or just use the shim.

Also, the performance of both is the same for a single item, but if you have a lot of numbers to format, using  is ~70 times faster. Therefore, it's usually best to use  and instantiate only once per page load. Anyway, here's the equivalent usage of :







Some notes on browser support and Node.js

- Browser support is no longer an issue nowadays with 99+% support globally

- There is a shim to support it on fossilized browsers (like Internet Explorer 8), should you really need to

- Node.js before v13 only supports  out of the box. One solution is to install full-icu, see here for more information

- Have a look at CanIUse for more information

A: The solution is to set your  to .

A: Yes,  is intended to be checked into source control. If you're using npm 5+, you may see this notice on the command line:  According to :

 is automatically generated for any operations where npm
modifies either the  tree, or . It describes the
exact tree that was generated, such that subsequent installs are able to
generate identical trees, regardless of intermediate dependency updates.

This file is intended to be committed into source repositories, and serves
various purposes:

- 

Describe a single representation of a dependency tree such that teammates, deployments, and continuous integration are guaranteed to install exactly the same dependencies.

- 

Provide a facility for users to "time-travel" to previous states of  without having to commit the directory itself.

- 

To facilitate greater visibility of tree changes through readable source control diffs.

- 

And optimize the installation process by allowing npm to skip repeated metadata resolutions for previously-installed packages.

One key detail about  is that it cannot be published, and it
will be ignored if found in any place other than the toplevel package. It shares
a format with npm-shrinkwrap.json, which is essentially the same file, but
allows publication. This is not recommended unless deploying a CLI tool or
otherwise using the publication process for producing production packages.

If both  and  are present in the root of
a package,  will be completely ignored.

A: NOTE : AsyncTask was deprecated in API level 30.

AsyncTask | Android Developers

This exception is thrown when an application attempts to perform a networking operation on its main thread. Run your code in :

How to execute the task:

In  file you can add this line within your  method

Don't forget to add this to  file:

A: (the C# alias for ) and  (the C# alias for ) are floating binary point types.  is 32-bit;  is 64-bit. In other words, they represent a number like this:

The binary number and the location of the binary point are both encoded within the value.

 (the C# alias for ) is a floating decimal point type. In other words, they represent a number like this:

Again, the number and the location of the decimal point are both encoded within the value – that's what makes  still a floating point type instead of a fixed point type.

The important thing to note is that humans are used to representing non-integers in a decimal form, and expect exact results in decimal representations; not all decimal numbers are exactly representable in binary floating point – 0.1, for example – so if you use a binary floating point value you'll actually get an approximation to 0.1. You'll still get approximations when using a floating decimal point as well – the result of dividing 1 by 3 can't be exactly represented, for example.

As for what to use when:

- 

For values which are "naturally exact decimals" it's good to use . This is usually suitable for any concepts invented by humans: financial values are the most obvious example, but there are others too. Consider the score given to divers or ice skaters, for example.

- 

For values which are more artefacts of nature which can't really be measured exactly anyway, / are more appropriate. For example, scientific data would usually be represented in this form. Here, the original values won't be "decimally accurate" to start with, so it's not important for the expected results to maintain the "decimal accuracy". Floating binary point types are much faster to work with than decimals.

A: Probably the simplest way to achieve this is with . If you really need just the expanded tree you can do something like this.

Most of the time that I need to 'export' something from git, I want a compressed archive in any case so I do something like this.

ZIP archive:

 for more details, it's quite flexible.

Be aware that even though the archive will not contain the .git directory, it will, however, contain other hidden git-specific files like .gitignore, .gitattributes, etc. If you don't want them in the archive, make sure you use the export-ignore attribute in a .gitattributes file and commit this before doing your archive. Read more...

Note: If you are interested in exporting the index, the command is

(See Greg's answer for more details)

Here's a real-world example using libchrony on Linux:

Those commands produce a zip file and extract it into . We can peek into the archive using:

A: Important
The following code works only if the minimum value is `1`. It does not work for minimum values other than `1`.

If you wanted to get a random integer between 1 (and only 1) and 6, you would calculate:







Where:

- 1 is the start number

- 6 is the number of possible results (1 + start (6) - end (1))

A: To save a stash with a message:

(quoting the doc: "Calling  without any arguments is equivalent to ").

Alternatively (deprecated since v2.16):

To list stashes:

All the stashes are stored in a stack.

To pop (i.e. apply and drop) the th stash:

To pop (i.e. apply and drop) a stash by name is not possible with  (see footnote-1).

To apply the th stash:

To apply a stash by name:

footnote-1:

- 

See the  section regarding :

Unlike pop,  may be any commit that looks like a commit created by stash push or stash create.

- 

Possible workaround (tested on git version 2.27 and 2.31):

A: Catch  and switch on the types

A: Either use a semi-transparent PNG or SVG image or use CSS:

Here's an article from css3.info, Opacity, RGBA and compromise (2007-06-03).

Beware that the text still needs sufficient contrast with the background, once the underlying background shines through.

A: Variables declared inside the class definition, but not inside a method are class or static variables:

As @millerdev points out, this creates a class-level  variable, but this is distinct from any instance-level  variable, so you could have

This is different from C++ and Java, but not so different from C#, where a static member can't be accessed using a reference to an instance.

See what the Python tutorial has to say on the subject of classes and class objects.

@Steve Johnson has already answered regarding static methods, also documented under "Built-in Functions" in the Python Library Reference.

@beidy recommends classmethods over staticmethod, as the method then receives the class type as the first argument.

A: Note: This answer was intended for a very specific question. For most programmers coming here from a search engine, this is not the answer you are looking for. Typically you would structure your files into packages (see other answers) instead of modifying the search path.

By default, you can't. When importing a file, Python only searches the directory that the entry-point script is running from and  which includes locations such as the package installation directory (it's actually a little more complex than this, but this covers most cases).

However, you can add to the Python path at runtime:

A: Sass is a CSS pre-processor with syntax advancements. Style sheets in the advanced syntax are processed by the program, and turned into regular CSS style sheets. However, they do not extend the CSS standard itself.

CSS variables are supported and can be utilized but not as well as pre-processor variables.

For the difference between SCSS and Sass, this text on the Sass documentation page should answer the question:

The SCSS syntax uses the file extension . With a few small exceptions, it’s a superset of CSS, which means essentially all valid CSS is valid SCSS as well. Because of its similarity to CSS, it’s the easiest syntax to get used to and the most popular.

The indented syntax was Sass’s original syntax, and so it uses the file extension . Because of this extension, it’s sometimes just called “Sass”. The indented syntax supports all the same features as SCSS, but it uses indentation instead of curly braces and semicolons to describe the format of the document.

However, all this works only with the Sass pre-compiler which in the end creates CSS. It is not an extension to the CSS standard itself.

A: You are running into the old problem with floating point numbers that not all numbers can be represented exactly. The command line is just showing you the full floating point form from memory.

With floating point representation, your rounded version is the same number. Since computers are binary, they store floating point numbers as an integer and then divide it by a power of two so 13.95 will be represented in a similar fashion to 125650429603636838/(2**53).

Double precision numbers have 53 bits (16 digits) of precision and regular floats have 24 bits (8 digits) of precision. The floating point type in Python uses double precision to store the values.

For example,

If you are after only two decimal places (to display a currency value, for example), then you have a couple of better choices:

- Use integers and store values in cents, not dollars and then divide by 100 to convert to dollars.

- Or use a fixed point number like decimal.

A: It's actually not too complicated...

Say you're on domain , and you want to make a request to domain . To do so, you need to cross domain boundaries, a no-no in most of browserland. 

The one item that bypasses this limitation is  tags. When you use a script tag, the domain limitation is ignored, but under normal circumstances, you can't really do anything with the results, the script just gets evaluated.

Enter . When you make your request to a server that is JSONP enabled, you pass a special parameter that tells the server a little bit about your page. That way, the server is able to nicely wrap up its response in a way that your page can handle. 

For example, say the server expects a parameter called  to enable its JSONP capabilities. Then your request would look like:

Without JSONP, this might return some basic JavaScript object, like so:

However, with JSONP, when the server receives the "callback" parameter, it wraps up the result a little differently, returning something like this:

As you can see, it will now invoke the method you specified. So, in your page, you define the callback function:

And now, when the script is loaded, it'll be evaluated, and your function will be executed. Voila, cross-domain requests!

It's also worth noting the one major issue with JSONP: you lose a lot of control of the request. For example, there is no "nice" way to get proper failure codes back. As a result, you end up using timers to monitor the request, etc, which is always a bit suspect. The proposition for JSONRequest is a great solution to allowing cross domain scripting, maintaining security, and allowing proper control of the request.

These days (2015), CORS is the recommended approach vs. JSONRequest. JSONP is still useful for older browser support, but given the security implications, unless you have no choice CORS is the better choice.

A: The approach you suggest is not guaranteed to give you the result you're looking for - what if you had a  for example:

You would end up with the following:

I would therefore recommend this approach instead:

You can include anything within the  method as long as it's valid HTML, including multiple rows as per the example above.

Update: Revisiting this answer following recent activity with this question. eyelidlessness makes a good comment that there will always be a  in the DOM; this is true, but only if there is at least one row. If you have no rows, there will be no  unless you have specified one yourself.

DaRKoN_ suggests appending to the  rather than adding content after the last . This gets around the issue of having no rows, but still isn't bulletproof as you could theoretically have multiple  elements and the row would get added to each of them.

Weighing everything up, I'm not sure there is a single one-line solution that accounts for every single possible scenario. You will need to make sure the jQuery code tallies with your markup.

I think the safest solution is probably to ensure your  always includes at least one  in your markup, even if it has no rows. On this basis, you can use the following which will work however many rows you have (and also account for multiple  elements):

A: The MySQL extension:

- Is not under active development

- Is officially deprecated as of PHP 5.5 (released June 2013).

- Has been removed entirely as of PHP 7.0 (released December 2015)

- This means that as of 31 Dec 2018 it does not exist in any supported version of PHP. If you are using a version of PHP which supports it, you are using a version which doesn't get security problems fixed.

- Lacks an OO interface

- Doesn't support:

- Non-blocking, asynchronous queries

- Prepared statements or parameterized queries

- Stored procedures

- Multiple Statements

- Transactions

- The "new" password authentication method (on by default in MySQL 5.6; required in 5.7)

- Any of the new functionality in MySQL 5.1 or later

Since it is deprecated, using it makes your code less future proof. 

Lack of support for prepared statements is particularly important as they provide a clearer, less error-prone method of escaping and quoting external data than manually escaping it with a separate function call.

See the comparison of SQL extensions.

A: 2019 Update

The current answers and the official documentation are outdated. And for those new to TypeScript, the terminology used isn't clear without examples. Below is a list of up-to-date differences.
 1. Objects / Functions

Both can be used to describe the shape of an object or a function signature. But the syntax differs.

Interface

Type alias

 2. Other Types

Unlike an interface, the type alias can also be used for other types such as primitives, unions, and tuples.

 3. Extend

Both can be extended, but again, the syntax differs. Additionally, note that an interface and type alias are not mutually exclusive. An interface can extend a type alias, and vice versa.

Interface extends interface

Type alias extends type alias

Interface extends type alias

Type alias extends interface

 4. Implements

A class can implement an interface or type alias, both in the same exact way. Note however that a class and interface are considered static blueprints. Therefore, they can not implement / extend a type alias that names a union type.

 5. Declaration merging

Unlike a type alias, an interface can be defined multiple times, and will be treated as a single interface (with members of all declarations being merged).

A: I couldn't resist - the other answers are undoubtedly true, but you really can't walk past the following code:







Note the weird spacing in the  statement (that I copied from your question). It is the half-width Hangul (that's Korean for those not familiar) which is an Unicode space character that is not interpreted by ECMA script as a space character - this means that it is a valid character for an identifier. Therefore there are three completely different variables, one with the Hangul after the a, one with it before and the last one with just a. Replacing the space with  for readability, the same code would look like this:







Check out the validation on Mathias' variable name validator. If that weird spacing was actually included in their question, I feel sure that it's a hint for this kind of answer.

Don't do this. Seriously.

Edit: It has come to my attention that (although not allowed to start a variable) the Zero-width joiner and Zero-width non-joiner characters are also permitted in variable names - see Obfuscating JavaScript with zero-width characters - pros and cons?.

This would look like the following:

A: Introduction

C++ treats variables of user-defined types with value semantics.
This means that objects are implicitly copied in various contexts,
and we should understand what "copying an object" actually means.

Let us consider a simple example:

(If you are puzzled by the  part,
this is called a member initializer list.)
Special member functions

What does it mean to copy a  object?
The  function shows two distinct copying scenarios.
The initialization  is performed by the copy constructor.
Its job is to construct a fresh object based on the state of an existing object.
The assignment  is performed by the copy assignment operator.
Its job is generally a little more complicated
because the target object is already in some valid state that needs to be dealt with.

Since we declared neither the copy constructor nor the assignment operator (nor the destructor) ourselves,
these are implicitly defined for us. Quote from the standard:

The [...] copy constructor and copy assignment operator, [...] and destructor are special member functions.
[ Note: The implementation will implicitly declare these member functions
for some class types when the program does not explicitly declare them.
The implementation will implicitly define them if they are used. [...] end note ]
[n3126.pdf section 12 §1]

By default, copying an object means copying its members:

The implicitly-defined copy constructor for a non-union class X performs a memberwise copy of its subobjects.
[n3126.pdf section 12.8 §16]

The implicitly-defined copy assignment operator for a non-union class X performs memberwise copy assignment
of its subobjects.
[n3126.pdf section 12.8 §30]

Implicit definitions

The implicitly-defined special member functions for  look like this:

Memberwise copying is exactly what we want in this case:
 and  are copied, so we get a self-contained, independent  object.
The implicitly-defined destructor is always empty.
This is also fine in this case since we did not acquire any resources in the constructor.
The members' destructors are implicitly called after the  destructor is finished:

After executing the body of the destructor and destroying any automatic objects allocated within the body,
a destructor for class X calls the destructors for X's direct [...] members
[n3126.pdf 12.4 §6]

Managing resources

So when should we declare those special member functions explicitly?
When our class manages a resource, that is,
when an object of the class is responsible for that resource.
That usually means the resource is acquired in the constructor
(or passed into the constructor) and released in the destructor.

Let us go back in time to pre-standard C++.
There was no such thing as , and programmers were in love with pointers.
The  class might have looked like this:

Even today, people still write classes in this style and get into trouble:
"I pushed a person into a vector and now I get crazy memory errors!"
Remember that by default, copying an object means copying its members,
but copying the  member merely copies a pointer, not the character array it points to!
This has several unpleasant effects:

- Changes via  can be observed via .

- Once  is destroyed,  is a dangling pointer.

- If  is destroyed, deleting the dangling pointer yields undefined behavior.

- Since the assignment does not take into account what  pointed to before the assignment,
sooner or later you will get memory leaks all over the place.

Explicit definitions

Since memberwise copying does not have the desired effect, we must define the copy constructor and the copy assignment operator explicitly to make deep copies of the character array:

Note the difference between initialization and assignment:
we must tear down the old state before assigning it to  to prevent memory leaks.
Also, we have to protect against the self-assignment of the form .
Without that check,  would delete the array containing the source string,
because when you write , both  and  contain the same pointer.
Exception safety

Unfortunately, this solution will fail if  throws an exception due to memory exhaustion.
One possible solution is to introduce a local variable and reorder the statements:

This also takes care of self-assignment without an explicit check.
An even more robust solution to this problem is the copy-and-swap idiom,
but I will not go into the details of exception safety here.
I only mentioned exceptions to make the following point: Writing classes that manage resources is hard.
Noncopyable resources

Some resources cannot or should not be copied, such as file handles or mutexes.
In that case, simply declare the copy constructor and copy assignment operator as  without giving a definition:

Alternatively, you can inherit from  or declare them as deleted (in C++11 and above):

The rule of three

Sometimes you need to implement a class that manages a resource.
(Never manage multiple resources in a single class,
this will only lead to pain.)
In that case, remember the rule of three:

If you need to explicitly declare either the destructor,
copy constructor or copy assignment operator yourself,
you probably need to explicitly declare all three of them.

(Unfortunately, this "rule" is not enforced by the C++ standard or any compiler I am aware of.)
The rule of five

From C++11 on, an object has 2 extra special member functions: the move constructor and move assignment. The rule of five states to implement these functions as well.

An example with the signatures:

The rule of zero

The rule of 3/5 is also referred to as the rule of 0/3/5. The zero part of the rule states that you are allowed to not write any of the special member functions when creating your class.
Advice

Most of the time, you do not need to manage a resource yourself,
because an existing class such as  already does it for you.
Just compare the simple code using a  member
to the convoluted and error-prone alternative using a  and you should be convinced.
As long as you stay away from raw pointer members, the rule of three is unlikely to concern your own code.

A: is a trigraph that translates to . So it says:

which, due to short circuiting, is equivalent to:

Guru of the Week (deals with C++ but relevant here), where I picked this up.

Possible origin of trigraphs or as @DwB points out in the comments it's more likely due to EBCDIC being difficult (again). This discussion on the IBM developerworks board seems to support that theory.

From ISO/IEC 9899:1999 §5.2.1.1, footnote 12 (h/t @Random832):

The trigraph sequences enable the input of characters that are not defined in the Invariant Code Set as
described in ISO/IEC 646, which is a subset of the seven-bit US ASCII code set.

A: The name reflection is used to describe code which is able to inspect other code in the same system (or itself).

For example, say you have an object of an unknown type in Java, and you would like to call a 'doSomething' method on it if one exists. Java's static typing system isn't really designed to support this unless the object conforms to a known interface, but using reflection, your code can look at the object and find out if it has a method called 'doSomething' and then call it if you want to.

So, to give you a code example of this in Java (imagine the object in question is foo) :

One very common use case in Java is the usage with annotations. JUnit 4, for example, will use reflection to look through your classes for methods tagged with the @Test annotation, and will then call them when running the unit test.

There are some good reflection examples to get you started at http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/reflect/index.html

And finally, yes, the concepts are pretty much similar in other statically typed languages which support reflection (like C#). In dynamically typed languages, the use case described above is less necessary (since the compiler will allow any method to be called on any object, failing at runtime if it does not exist), but the second case of looking for methods which are marked or work in a certain way is still common.

Update from a comment:

  

The ability to inspect the code in the system and see object types is
  not reflection, but rather Type Introspection. Reflection is then the
  ability to make modifications at runtime by making use of
  introspection. The distinction is necessary here as some languages
  support introspection, but do not support reflection. One such example
  is C++

A: Basically, a minimal reproducible example (MRE) should enable others to exactly reproduce your issue on their machines.

Please do not post images of your data, code, or console output!
Brief summary

A MRE consists of the following items:

- a minimal dataset, necessary to demonstrate the problem

- the minimal runnable code necessary to reproduce the issue, which can be run on the given dataset

- all necessary information on the used s, the R version, and the OS it is run on, perhaps a 

- in the case of random processes, a seed (set by ) to enable others to replicate exactly the same results as you have

For examples of good MREs, see section "Examples" at the bottom of help pages on the function you are using. Simply type e.g. , or short  into your R console.
Providing a minimal dataset

Usually, sharing huge data sets is not necessary and may rather discourage others from reading your question. Therefore, it is better to use built-in datasets or create a small "toy" example that resembles your original data, which is actually what is meant by minimal. If for some reason you really need to share your original data, you should use a method, such as , that allows others to get an exact copy of your data.
Built-in datasets

You can use one of the built-in datasets. A comprehensive list of built-in datasets can be seen with . There is a short description of every data set, and more information can be obtained, e.g. with , for the 'iris' data set that comes with R. Installed packages might contain additional datasets.
Creating example data sets

Preliminary note: Sometimes you may need special formats (i.e. classes), such as factors, dates, or time series. For these, make use of functions like: , , , ... Example:

where

Vectors

Matrices

Data frames

Note: Although it is widely used, better to not name your data frame , because  is an R function for the density (i.e. height of the curve at point ) of the F distribution and you might get a clash with it.
Copying original data

If you have a specific reason, or data that would be too difficult to construct an example from, you could provide a small subset of your original data, best by using .

Why use ?

 throws all information needed to exactly reproduce your data on your console. You may simply copy the output and paste it into your question.

Calling  (from above) produces output that still lacks information about variable classes and other features if you share it in your question. Furthermore, the spaces in the  column make it difficult to do anything with it. Even when we set out to use the data, we won't manage to get important features of your data right.

Subset your data

To share a subset, use ,  or the indices . Then wrap it into  to give others something that can be put in R immediately. Example

Console output to share in your question:

When using , you may also want to include only relevant columns, e.g. dput(mtcars[1:3, c(2, 5, 6)])

Note: If your data frame has a factor with many levels, the  output can be unwieldy because it will still list all the possible factor levels even if they aren't present in the subset of your data. To solve this issue, you can use the  function. Notice below how species is a factor with only one level, e.g. . One other caveat for  is that it will not work for keyed  objects or for grouped  (class ) from the . In these cases you can convert back to a regular data frame before sharing, .

consider using the constructive package for cleaner results

Using  instead of  as above gives this output, which is a little bit more compact and easier to read (examples with, for example, long strings of repeated factor values will give an even stronger reason to use  ...)

Producing minimal code

Combined with the minimal data (see above), your code should exactly reproduce the problem on another machine by simply copying and pasting it.

This should be the easy part but often isn't. What you should not do:

- showing all kinds of data conversions; make sure the provided data is already in the correct format (unless that is the problem, of course)

- copy-paste a whole script that gives an error somewhere. Try to locate which lines exactly result in the error. More often than not, you'll find out what the problem is yourself.

What you should do:

- add which packages you use if you use any (using )

- test run your code in a fresh R session to ensure the code is runnable. People should be able to copy-paste your data and your code in the console and get the same as you have.

- if you open connections or create files, add some code to close them or delete the files (using )

- if you change options, make sure the code contains a statement to revert them back to the original ones. (eg  )

Providing necessary information

In most cases, just the R version and the operating system will suffice. When conflicts arise with packages, giving the output of  can really help. When talking about connections to other applications (be it through ODBC or anything else), one should also provide version numbers for those, and if possible, also the necessary information on the setup.

If you are running R in R Studio, using  can help report your RStudio version.

If you have a problem with a specific package, you may want to provide the package version by giving the output of .
Seed

Using  you may specify a seed1, i.e. the specific state in which R's random number generator is fixed. This makes it possible for random functions, such as , ,  and lots of others, to always return the same result, Example:

1 Note: The output of  differs between R >3.6.0 and previous versions. Specify which R version you used for the random process, and don't be surprised if you get slightly different results when following old questions. To get the same result in such cases, you can use the -function before  (e.g.: ).

A: Update 1 November 2012

My original answer applies specifically to jQuery 1.6. My advice remains the same but jQuery 1.6.1 changed things slightly: in the face of the predicted pile of broken websites, the jQuery team reverted  to something close to (but not exactly the same as) its old behaviour for Boolean attributes. John Resig also blogged about it. I can see the difficulty they were in but still disagree with his recommendation to prefer .

Original answer

If you've only ever used jQuery and not the DOM directly, this could be a confusing change, although it is definitely an improvement conceptually. Not so good for the bazillions of sites using jQuery that will break as a result of this change though.

I'll summarize the main issues:

- You usually want  rather than .

- In the majority of cases,  does what  used to do. Replacing calls to  with  in your code will generally work.

- Properties are generally simpler to deal with than attributes. An attribute value may only be a string whereas a property can be of any type. For example, the  property is a Boolean, the  property is an object with individual properties for each style, the  property is a number.

- Where both a property and an attribute with the same name exists, usually updating one will update the other, but this is not the case for certain attributes of inputs, such as  and : for these attributes, the property always represents the current state while the attribute (except in old versions of IE) corresponds to the default value/checkedness of the input (reflected in the  /  property).

- This change removes some of the layer of magic jQuery stuck in front of attributes and properties, meaning jQuery developers will have to learn a bit about the difference between properties and attributes. This is a good thing.

If you're a jQuery developer and are confused by this whole business about properties and attributes, you need to take a step back and learn a little about it, since jQuery is no longer trying so hard to shield you from this stuff. For the authoritative but somewhat dry word on the subject, there's the specs: DOM4, HTML DOM, DOM Level 2, DOM Level 3. Mozilla's DOM documentation is valid for most modern browsers and is easier to read than the specs, so you may find their DOM reference helpful. There's a section on element properties.

As an example of how properties are simpler to deal with than attributes, consider a checkbox that is initially checked. Here are two possible pieces of valid HTML to do this:

So, how do you find out if the checkbox is checked with jQuery? Look on Stack Overflow and you'll commonly find the following suggestions:

- 

- 

- 

This is actually the simplest thing in the world to do with the  Boolean property, which has existed and worked flawlessly in every major scriptable browser since 1995:

The property also makes checking or unchecking the checkbox trivial:

In jQuery 1.6, this unambiguously becomes

The idea of using the  attribute for scripting a checkbox is unhelpful and unnecessary. The property is what you need.

- It's not obvious what the correct way to check or uncheck the checkbox is using the  attribute

- The attribute value reflects the default rather than the current visible state (except in some older versions of IE, thus making things still harder). The attribute tells you nothing about the whether the checkbox on the page is checked. See http://jsfiddle.net/VktA6/49/.

A: Number.prototype.toFixed

This solution is compatible with every single major browser:

All you need is to add the currency symbol (e.g. ) and you will have your amount in dollars.
Custom function

If you require the use of  between each digit, you can use this function:








Use it like so:

If you're always going to use '.' and ',', you can leave them off your method call, and the method will default them for you.

If your culture has the two symbols flipped (i.e., Europeans) and you would like to use the defaults, just paste over the following two lines in the  method:

Custom function (ES6)

If you can use modern ECMAScript syntax (i.e., through Babel), you can use this simpler function instead:

A: Python 3.4+ and 2.7.9+

Good news! Python 3.4 (released March 2014) and Python 2.7.9 (released December 2014) ship with Pip. This is the best feature of any Python release. It makes the community's wealth of libraries accessible to everyone. Newbies are no longer excluded from using community libraries by the prohibitive difficulty of setup. In shipping with a package manager, Python joins Ruby, Node.js, Haskell, Perl, Go—almost every other contemporary language with a majority open-source community. Thank you, Python.

If you do find that pip is not available, simply run .

- 

On Windows:

- 

Otherwise:

Of course, that doesn't mean Python packaging is problem solved. The experience remains frustrating. I discuss this in the Stack Overflow question Does Python have a package/module management system?.
Python 3 ≤ 3.3 and 2 ≤ 2.7.8

Flying in the face of its 'batteries included' motto, Python ships without a package manager. To make matters worse, Pip was—until recently—ironically difficult to install.
Official instructions

Per https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/#do-i-need-to-install-pip:

Download , being careful to save it as a  file rather than . Then, run it from the command prompt:

You possibly need an administrator command prompt to do this. Follow Start a Command Prompt as an Administrator (Microsoft TechNet).

This installs the pip package, which (in Windows) contains ...\Scripts\pip.exe that path must be in PATH environment variable to use pip from the command line (see the second part of 'Alternative Instructions' for adding it to your PATH,
Alternative instructions

The official documentation tells users to install Pip and each of its dependencies from source. That's tedious for the experienced and prohibitively difficult for newbies.

For our sake, Christoph Gohlke prepares Windows installers () for popular Python packages. He builds installers for all Python versions, both 32 and 64 bit. You need to:

- Install setuptools

- Install pip

For me, this installed Pip at . Find  on your computer, then add its folder (for example, ) to your path (Start / Edit environment variables). Now you should be able to run  from the command line. Try installing a package:

There you go (hopefully)! Solutions for common problems are given below:
Proxy problems

If you work in an office, you might be behind an HTTP proxy. If so, set the environment variables  and . Most Python applications (and other free software) respect these. Example syntax:

If you're really unlucky, your proxy might be a Microsoft NTLM proxy. Free software can't cope. The only solution is to install a free software friendly proxy that forwards to the nasty proxy. http://cntlm.sourceforge.net/
Unable to find vcvarsall.bat

Python modules can be partly written in C or C++. Pip tries to compile from source. If you don't have a C/C++ compiler installed and configured, you'll see this cryptic error message.

Error: Unable to find vcvarsall.bat

You can fix that by installing a C++ compiler such as MinGW or Visual C++. Microsoft actually ships one specifically for use with Python. Or try Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler for Python 2.7.

Often though it's easier to check Christoph's site for your package.

A: Whereas one approach is to implement the  interface (described here, so I won't regurgitate), here's a nice deep clone object copier I found on The Code Project a while ago and incorporated it into our code.
As mentioned elsewhere, it requires your objects to be serializable.

The idea is that it serializes your object and then deserializes it into a fresh object. The benefit is that you don't have to concern yourself about cloning everything when an object gets too complex.

In case of you prefer to use the new extension methods of C# 3.0, change the method to have the following signature:

Now the method call simply becomes .

EDIT (January 10 2015) Thought I'd revisit this, to mention I recently started using (Newtonsoft) Json to do this, it should be lighter, and avoids the overhead of [Serializable] tags. (NB @atconway has pointed out in the comments that private members are not cloned using the JSON method)

A: Use  directly instead of :

That will be much faster as it uses the dictionary's O(1) hashing as opposed to doing an O(n) linear search on a list of keys.

A: There is a standards based replacement, that is supported by over 99% of browsers, though not IE8:

jQuery's native function is much more complicated than just window.onload, as depicted below.

A: From Spring Documentation:

The  annotation is a marker for any class that fulfils the
role or stereotype of a repository (also known as Data Access Object
or DAO). Among the uses of this marker is the automatic translation of
exceptions, as described in Exception Translation.

Spring provides further stereotype annotations: , ,
and .  is a generic stereotype for any
Spring-managed component. , , and  are
specializations of  for more specific use cases (in the
persistence, service, and presentation layers, respectively).
Therefore, you can annotate your component classes with ,
but, by annotating them with , , or 
instead, your classes are more properly suited for processing by tools
or associating with aspects.

For example, these stereotype annotations
make ideal targets for pointcuts. , , and
 can also carry additional semantics in future releases of
the Spring Framework. Thus, if you are choosing between using
 or  for your service layer,  is clearly the
better choice. Similarly, as stated earlier,  is already
supported as a marker for automatic exception translation in your
persistence layer.

Annotation
Meaning

generic stereotype for any Spring-managed component

stereotype for persistence layer

stereotype for service layer

stereotype for presentation layer (spring-mvc)

A: The biggest difference between padding and margin is that vertical margins auto-collapse, and padding doesn't.

Consider two elements one above the other each with padding of . This padding is considered to be part of the element and is always preserved.

You will end up with the content of the first element, followed by the padding of the first element, followed by the padding of the second, followed by the content of the second element.

Thus the content of the two elements will end up being  apart.

Now replace that padding with  margin. Margins are considered to be outside of the element, and margins of adjacent items will overlap.

In this second example, you will end up with the content of the first element followed by  of combined margin followed by the content of the second element. So the content of the two elements is only  apart.

This can be really useful when you know that you want to say  of spacing around an element, regardless of what element it is next to.

The other big difference is that padding is included in the click region and background color/image, but margin is not.








By default I use margin everywhere, except when I have a border or background and want to increase the space inside that visible box.

A: Upon further analysis of this, I believe this is (at least partially) caused by the data alignment of the four-pointers. This will cause some level of cache bank/way conflicts.

If I've guessed correctly on how you are allocating your arrays, they are likely to be aligned to the page line.

This means that all your accesses in each loop will fall on the same cache way. However, Intel processors have had 8-way L1 cache associativity for a while. But in reality, the performance isn't completely uniform. Accessing 4-ways is still slower than say 2-ways.

EDIT: It does in fact look like you are allocating all the arrays separately.
Usually when such large allocations are requested, the allocator will request fresh pages from the OS. Therefore, there is a high chance that large allocations will appear at the same offset from a page-boundary.

Here's the test code:

Benchmark Results:
EDIT: Results on an actual Core 2 architecture machine:

2 x Intel Xeon X5482 Harpertown @ 3.2 GHz:

Observations:

- 

6.206 seconds with one loop and 2.116 seconds with two loops. This reproduces the OP's results exactly.

- 

In the first two tests, the arrays are allocated separately. You'll notice that they all have the same alignment relative to the page.

- 

In the second two tests, the arrays are packed together to break that alignment. Here you'll notice both loops are faster. Furthermore, the second (double) loop is now the slower one as you would normally expect.

As @Stephen Cannon points out in the comments, there is a very likely possibility that this alignment causes false aliasing in the load/store units or the cache. I Googled around for this and found that Intel actually has a hardware counter for partial address aliasing stalls:

http://software.intel.com/sites/products/documentation/doclib/stdxe/2013/~amplifierxe/pmw_dp/events/partial_address_alias.html

5 Regions - Explanations

Region 1:

This one is easy. The dataset is so small that the performance is dominated by overhead like looping and branching.

Region 2:

Here, as the data sizes increase, the amount of relative overhead goes down and the performance "saturates". Here two loops is slower because it has twice as much loop and branching overhead.

I'm not sure exactly what's going on here... Alignment could still play an effect as Agner Fog mentions cache bank conflicts. (That link is about Sandy Bridge, but the idea should still be applicable to Core 2.)

Region 3:

At this point, the data no longer fits in the L1 cache. So performance is capped by the L1  L2 cache bandwidth.

Region 4:

The performance drop in the single-loop is what we are observing. And as mentioned, this is due to the alignment which (most likely) causes false aliasing stalls in the processor load/store units.

However, in order for false aliasing to occur, there must be a large enough stride between the datasets. This is why you don't see this in region 3.

Region 5:

At this point, nothing fits in the cache. So you're bound by memory bandwidth.

Q: Concatenate text from multiple rows into a single text string

Consider a database table holding names, with three rows:

Is there an easy way to turn this into a single string of ?

Q: How to copy Docker images from one host to another without using a repository

How do I transfer a Docker image from one machine to another one without using a repository, no matter private or public?

I create my own image in VirtualBox, and when it is finished I try to deploy to other machines to have real usage.

Since it is based on my own base image (like Red Hat Linux), it cannot be recreated from a Dockerfile. My Dockerfile isn't easily portable.

Are there simple commands I can use? Or another solution?

Q: How can I randomly select (choose) an item from a list (get a random element)?

How do I retrieve an item at random from the following list?

Q: Should 'using' directives be inside or outside the namespace in C#?

I have been running StyleCop over some C# code, and it keeps reporting that my  directives should be inside the namespace.

Is there a technical reason for putting the  directives inside instead of outside the namespace?

Q: Get selected value in dropdown list using JavaScript

How do I get the selected value from a dropdown list using JavaScript?

Q: Vim clear last search highlighting

After doing a search in Vim, I get all the occurrences highlighted. How can I disable that?  I now do another search for something gibberish that can't be found.

Is there a way to just temporarily disable the highlight and then re-enable it when needed again?

Q: How do I fetch all Git branches?

I cloned a Git repository containing many branches. However,  only shows one:

How would I pull all the branches locally so when I do , it shows the following?

Q: How can I change the cursor into a hand when a user hovers over a list item?

I've got a list, and I have a click handler for its items:

How can I change the mouse pointer into a hand pointer (like when hovering over a button)? Right now, the pointer turns into a text selection pointer when I hover over the list items.

Q: How can I add new array elements at the beginning of an array in JavaScript?

I have a need to add or prepend elements at the beginning of an array.

For example, if my array looks like below:

And the response from my AJAX call is , I want the updated array to be like the following:

Currently I am planning to do it like this:

Is there a better way to do this? Does JavaScript have any built-in functionality that does this?

The complexity of my method is  and it would be really interesting to see better implementations.

Q: What is the "N+1 selects problem" in ORM (Object-Relational Mapping)?

The "N+1 selects problem" is generally stated as a problem in Object-Relational mapping (ORM) discussions, and I understand that it has something to do with having to make a lot of database queries for something that seems simple in the object world.

Does anybody have a more detailed explanation of the problem?

Q: Loop through an array of strings in Bash?

I want to write a script that loops through 15 strings (array possibly?) Is that possible?

Q: What is the copy-and-swap idiom?

What is the copy-and-swap idiom and when should it be used? What problems does it solve? Does it change for C++11?

Related:

- What are your favorite C++ Coding Style idioms:  Copy-swap

- Copy constructor and = operator overload in C++: is a common function possible?

- What is copy elision and how it optimizes copy-and-swap idiom

- C++: dynamically allocating an array of objects?

Q: What is a JavaBean exactly?

I understood, I think, that a "Bean" is a Java-class with properties and getters/setters. 

As much as I understand, it is the equivalent of a C . Is that true?

Also, is there a real syntactic difference between a  and a regular ? 

Is there any special definition or an ?

Basically, why is there a term for this?

Also what does the  interface mean?

Q: How to get the children of the $(this) selector?

I have a layout similar to this, and would like to use a  selector to select the child  inside the  on click.

To get the , I've got this selector:

How can I get the child  using a selector?

Q: How can I delete all lines that contain a specific string from a text file?

How would I use sed to delete all lines in a text file that contain a specific string?

Q: How can I see the changes in a Git commit?

When I do  I see the changes between that commit and HEAD (as far as I know), but I would like to see the changes that were made by that single commit.

I haven't found any obvious options on  /  that will give me that output.

Q: How to get an enum value from a string value in Java

Say I have an enum which is just

and I would like to find the enum value of a string, for example  which would be . How would it be possible to do this?

Is the  the method I need? If so, how would I use this?

Q: Get int value from enum in C#

I have a class called  (plural). In this class there is an enum called  (singular) which looks like this.

In the  class I have a  function that returns a  object for that . Is there an easy way to get the integer value off the enum so I can do something like this ?

Q: Iterate through object properties

How does the variable  represent the properties of the object? It's not a built-in method or property. Why does it come up with every property in the object?

Q: How can I guarantee that my enums definition doesn't change in JavaScript?

Would the following make the objects fulfil all characteristics that enums have in JavaScript? Something like:

Or is there some other way I can do this?

Q: Remove file from latest commit

How do I remove a file from the latest commit?

Q: What are MVP and MVC and what is the difference?

When looking beyond the RAD (drag-drop and configure) way of building user interfaces that many tools encourage you are likely to come across three design patterns called Model-View-Controller, Model-View-Presenter and Model-View-ViewModel. My question has three parts to it:

- What issues do these patterns address?

- How are they similar?

- How are they different?

Q: RegEx match open tags except XHTML self-contained tags

I need to match all of these opening tags:

But not self-closing tags:

I came up with this and wanted to make sure I've got it right. I am only capturing the .

I believe it says:

- Find a less-than, then

- Find (and capture) a-z one or more times, then

- Find zero or more spaces, then

- Find any character zero or more times, greedy, except , then

- Find a greater-than

Do I have that right? And more importantly, what do you think?

Q: "implements Runnable" vs "extends Thread" in Java

From what time I've spent with threads in Java, I've found these two ways to write threads:

With implements :

Or, with extends :

Is there any significant difference in these two blocks of code?

Q: Showing which files have changed between two revisions

I want to merge two branches that have been separated for a while and wanted to know which files have been modified.

Came across this link: http://linux.yyz.us/git-howto.html (moved to web.archive.org) which was quite useful.

The tools to compare branches I've come across are:

- 

- 

- 

Was wondering if there's something like "git status master..branch" to only see those files that are different between the two branches.

Without creating a new tool, I think this is the closest you can get to do that now (which of course will show repeats if a file was modified more than once):

- 

Was wondering if there's something I missed...

Q: How do I get a consistent byte representation of strings in C# without manually specifying an encoding?

How do I convert a  to a  in .NET (C#) without manually specifying a specific encoding?

I'm going to encrypt the string. I can encrypt it without converting, but I'd still like to know why encoding comes to play here.

Also, why should encoding even be taken into consideration? Can't I simply get what bytes the string has been stored in? Why is there a dependency on character encodings?

Q: How can I programmatically navigate using React Router?

With React Router, I can use the  element to create links which are natively handled by React Router.

I see internally it calls .

I want to do navigation. Not from a link, but from a dropdown selection (as an example). How can I do this in code? What is ?

I saw the  mixin, but can I do this without mixins?

Q: Retrieve the position (X,Y) of an HTML element

I want to know how to get the X and Y position of HTML elements such as  and  in JavaScript.

Q: How to exit in Node.js

What is the command that is used to exit? (i.e terminate the Node.js process)

Q: Remove tracking branches no longer on remote

Is there a simple way to delete all tracking branches whose remote equivalent no longer exists?

Example:

Branches (local and remote)

- master

- origin/master

- origin/bug-fix-a

- origin/bug-fix-b

- origin/bug-fix-c

Locally, I only have a master branch. Now I need to work on bug-fix-a, so I check it out, work on it, and push changes to the remote. Next I do the same with bug-fix-b.

Branches (local and remote)

- master

- bug-fix-a

- bug-fix-b

- origin/master

- origin/bug-fix-a

- origin/bug-fix-b

- origin/bug-fix-c

Now I have local branches master, bug-fix-a, bug-fix-b. The Master branch maintainer will merge my changes into master and delete all branches he has already merged.

So the current state is now:

Branches (local and remote)

- master

- bug-fix-a

- bug-fix-b

- origin/master

- origin/bug-fix-c

Now I would like to call some command to delete branches (in this case bug-fix-a, bug-fix-b), which are no longer represented in the remote repository.

It would be something like the existing command , but more like .

Q: Could not open a connection to your authentication agent

I am running into this error of: 

I tried to add the keys and I get this error below:

Q: How to list unpushed Git commits (local but not on origin)

How can I view any local commits I've made, that haven't yet been pushed to the remote repository? Occasionally,  will print out that my branch is X commits ahead of , but not always.

Is this a bug with my install of Git, or am I missing something?

Q: How do you merge two Git repositories?

Consider the following scenario:

I have developed a small experimental project A in its own Git repo. It has now matured, and I'd like A to be part of larger project B, which has its own big repository. I'd now like to add A as a subdirectory of B.

How do I merge A into B, without losing history on any side?

Q: What is Inversion of Control?

Inversion of Control (IoC) can be quite confusing when it is first encountered.

- What is it?

- Which problem does it solve?

- When is it appropriate to use and when not?

Q: Vertically align text to top within a UILabel

I have a  with space for two lines of text. Sometimes, when the text is too short, this text is displayed in the vertical center of the label.

How do I vertically align the text to always be at the top of the ?

Q: What is the best way to give a C# auto-property an initial value?

How do you give a C# auto-property an initial value?

I either use the constructor, or revert to the old syntax. 

 Using the Constructor:

Using normal property syntax  (with an initial value)

Is there a better way?

Q: How to remove an element from a list by index

How do I remove an element from a list by index?

I found , but this slowly scans the list for an item by value.

Q: How do I commit case-sensitive only filename changes in Git?

I have changed a few files name by  de-capitalize the first letter, as in  to . Git does not recognize this changes and I had to delete the files and upload them again. Is there a way that Git can be case-sensitive when checking for changes in file names? I have not made any changes to the file itself.

Q: How do you assert that a certain exception is thrown in JUnit tests?

How can I use JUnit idiomatically to test that some code throws an exception?

While I can certainly do something like this:

I recall that there is an annotation or an Assert.xyz or something that is far less kludgy and far more in-the-spirit of JUnit for these sorts of situations.

Q: How do I center text horizontally and vertically in a TextView?

How do I center the text horizontally and vertically in a , so that it appears exactly in the middle of the  in ?

Q: Why can templates only be implemented in the header file?

Quote from The C++ standard library: a tutorial and handbook:

  

The only portable way of using templates at the moment is to implement them in header files by using inline functions.

Why is this?

(Clarification: header files are not the only portable solution. But they are the most convenient portable solution.)

Q: Comments in Markdown

How do you write a comment in Markdown, i.e. text that is not rendered in the HTML output? I found nothing on the Markdown project.

Q: Delete a column from a Pandas DataFrame

To delete a column in a DataFrame, I can successfully use:

But why can't I use the following?

Since it is possible to access the Series via , I expected this to work.

Q: How do I exclude a directory when using `find`?

How do I exclude a specific directory when searching for  files using ?

Q: Check if a value is an object in JavaScript

How do you check if a value is an object in JavaScript?

Q: Are double quotes and single quotes interchangeable for string literals in JavaScript?

Consider the following two alternatives:

- 

- 

The former uses double quotes around the string, whereas the latter uses single quotes around the string.

I see more and more JavaScript libraries out there using single quotes when handling strings.

Are these two usages interchangeable? If not, is there an advantage in using one over the other?

Q: How do you parse and process HTML/XML in PHP?

How can one parse HTML/XML and extract information from it?

Q: Why doesn't GCC optimize a*a*a*a*a*a to (a*a*a)*(a*a*a)?

I am doing some numerical optimization on a scientific application. One thing I noticed is that GCC will optimize the call  by compiling it into , but the call  is not optimized and will actually call the library function , which greatly slows down the performance. (In contrast, Intel C++ Compiler, executable , will eliminate the library call for .) 

What I am curious about is that when I replaced  with  using GCC 4.5.1 and options "", it uses 5  instructions:

while if I write , it will produce

which reduces the number of multiply instructions to 3.  has similar behavior.

Why do compilers not recognize this optimization trick?

Q: What do 'real', 'user' and 'sys' mean in the output of time(1)?

What do ,  and  mean in the output of time? Which one is meaningful when benchmarking my app?

Q: How to write a switch statement in Ruby

How do I write a  statement in Ruby?

Q: HTML: Valid id attribute values?

When creating the  attributes for HTML elements, what rules are there for the value?

Q: How do I get the number of elements in a list (length of a list) in Python?

How do I get the number of elements in the list ?

Q: How can I select an element with multiple classes in jQuery?

I want to select all the elements that have the two classes  and .

So, only the elements that have both classes.

When I use  it gives me the union, but I want the intersection.

Q: How to compare files from two different branches

I have a script that works fine in one branch and is broken in another. I want to look at the two versions side-by-side and see what's different. Is there a way to do this?

To be clear I'm not looking for a compare tool (I use Beyond Compare). I'm looking for a Git diff command that will allow me to compare the master version to my current branch version to see what has changed. I'm not in the middle of a merge or anything. I just want to say something like

Q: How does PHP 'foreach' actually work?

Let me prefix this by saying that I know what  is, does and how to use it. This question concerns how it works under the bonnet, and I don't want any answers along the lines of "this is how you loop an array with ".

For a long time I assumed that  worked with the array itself. Then I found many references to the fact that it works with a copy of the array, and I have since assumed this to be the end of the story. But I recently got into a discussion on the matter, and after a little experimentation found that this was not in fact 100% true.

Let me show what I mean. For the following test cases, we will be working with the following array:

Test case 1:

This clearly shows that we are not working directly with the source array - otherwise the loop would continue forever, since we are constantly pushing items onto the array during the loop. But just to be sure this is the case:

Test case 2:

This backs up our initial conclusion, we are working with a copy of the source array during the loop, otherwise we would see the modified values during the loop. But...

If we look in the manual, we find this statement:

  

When foreach first starts executing, the internal array pointer is automatically reset to the first element of the array.

Right... this seems to suggest that  relies on the array pointer of the source array. But we've just proved that we're not working with the source array, right? Well, not entirely.

Test case 3:

So, despite the fact that we are not working directly with the source array, we are working directly with the source array pointer - the fact that the pointer is at the end of the array at the end of the loop shows this. Except this can't be true - if it was, then test case 1 would loop forever.

The PHP manual also states:

  

As foreach relies on the internal array pointer changing it within the loop may lead to unexpected behavior.

Well, let's find out what that "unexpected behavior" is (technically, any behavior is unexpected since I no longer know what to expect).

Test case 4:

Test case 5:

...nothing that unexpected there, in fact it seems to support the "copy of source" theory.

The Question

What is going on here? My C-fu is not good enough for me to able to extract a proper conclusion simply by looking at the PHP source code, I would appreciate it if someone could translate it into English for me.

It seems to me that  works with a copy of the array, but sets the array pointer of the source array to the end of the array after the loop.

- Is this correct and the whole story?

- If not, what is it really doing?

- Is there any situation where using functions that adjust the array pointer (,  et al.) during a  could affect the outcome of the loop?

Q: How do I iterate over a range of numbers defined by variables in Bash?

How do I iterate over a range of numbers in Bash when the range is given by a variable?

I know I can do this (called "sequence expression" in the Bash documentation):

Which gives:

1 

2 

3 

4 

5

Yet, how can I replace either of the range endpoints with a variable? This doesn't work:

Which prints:

{1..5}

Q: Vertically align text next to an image?

Why won't  work?  And yet,  does work.

Q: How do I calculate someone's age based on a DateTime type birthday?

Given a  representing a person's birthday, how do I calculate their age in years?

Q: How to reload .bashrc settings without logging out and back in again?

If I make changes to , how do I reload it without logging out and back in?

Q: What is the difference between venv, pyvenv, pyenv, virtualenv, virtualenvwrapper, pipenv, etc?

Python 3.3 includes in its standard library the new package . What does it do, and how does it differ from all the other packages that match the regex ?

Q: What is 'Context' on Android?

In Android programming, what exactly is a  class and what is it used for?

I read about it on the developer site, but I am unable to understand it clearly.

Q: PostgreSQL "DESCRIBE TABLE"

How do you perform the equivalent of Oracle's  in PostgreSQL with psql command?

Q: How do I pad a string with zeros?

How do I pad a numeric string with zeroes to the left, so that the string has a specific length?

Q: How to get a Docker container's IP address from the host

Is there a command I can run to get the container's IP address right from the host after a new container is created?

Basically, once Docker creates the container, I want to roll my own code deployment and container configuration scripts.

Q: How can I update Node.js and npm to their latest versions?

I just installed Node.js and . I installed  for access to additional Node.js modules. After I installed Node.js and , I noticed that neither were the latest versions available.
So my questions are:

- How do I upgrade Node.js,  and my Node.js modules to their latest versions?

- Do I need to uninstall Node.js and , and reinstall the latest versions?

Q: How do I recursively grep all directories and subdirectories?

How do I recursively  all directories and subdirectories?

Q: How can I symlink a file in Linux?

I want to create a symbolic link in Linux. I have written this Bash command where the first path is the folder I want to link, and the second path is the compiled source.

Is this correct?

Q: How can I determine a Python variable's type?

How do I see the type of a variable? (e.g., unsigned 32 bit)

Q: Can I delete (or undo) a git commit but keep the changes?

In one of my development branches, I made some changes to my codebase. Before I was able to complete the features I was working on, I had to switch my current branch to master to demo some features. But just using a "git checkout master" preserved the changes I also made in my development branch, thus breaking some of the functionality in master. So what I did was commit the changes on my development branch with a commit message "temporary commit" and then checkout master for the demo.

Now that I'm done with the demo and back to work on my development branch, I would like to remove the "temporary commit" that I made while still preserving the changes I made. Is that possible?

Q: How can I delete all of my Git stashes at once?

How can I delete all of my Git stashes at once?

Specifically I mean, with typing in one command.

Q: Short circuit Array.forEach like calling break

How can I do this using the new  method in JavaScript? I've tried ,  and .  crashes and  does nothing but continue iteration.

Q: Delete an element from a dictionary

- How do I delete an item from a dictionary in Python?

- Without modifying the original dictionary, how do I obtain another dictionary with the item removed?

See also How can I remove a key from a Python dictionary? for the specific issue of removing an item (by key) that may not already be present.

Q: When should I use 'self' over '$this'?

In PHP 5, what is the difference between using  and ?

When is each appropriate?

Q: C++11 introduced a standardized memory model. What does it mean? And how is it going to affect C++ programming?

C++11 introduced a standardized memory model, but what exactly does that mean? And how is it going to affect C++ programming?

This article (by Gavin Clarke who quotes Herb Sutter) says that,

The memory model means that C++ code
now has a standardized library to call
regardless of who made the compiler
and on what platform it's running.
There's a standard way to control how
different threads talk to the
processor's memory.

"When you are talking about splitting
[code] across different cores that's
in the standard, we are talking about
the memory model. We are going to
optimize it without breaking the
following assumptions people are going
to make in the code," Sutter said.

Well, I can memorize this and similar paragraphs available online (as I've had my own memory model since birth :P) and can even post as an answer to questions asked by others, but to be honest, I don't exactly understand this.

C++ programmers used to develop multi-threaded applications even before, so how does it matter if it's POSIX threads, or Windows threads, or C++11 threads? What are the benefits? I want to understand the low-level details.

I also get this feeling that the C++11 memory model is somehow related to C++11 multi-threading support, as I often see these two together. If it is, how exactly? Why should they be related?

I don't know how the internals of multi-threading work, and what memory model means in general.

Q: Determine the type of an object?

Is there a simple way to determine if a variable is a list, dictionary, or something else?

Q: How to check if the string is empty in Python?

Does Python have something like an empty string variable where you can do:

Regardless, what's the most elegant way to check for empty string values? I find hard coding  every time for checking an empty string not as good.

Q: How do I count the occurrences of a list item?

Given a single item, how do I count occurrences of it in a list, in Python?

A related but different problem is counting occurrences of each different element in a collection, getting a dictionary or list as a histogram result instead of a single integer. For that problem, see Using a dictionary to count the items in a list.

Q: How to return only the Date from a SQL Server DateTime datatype

Returns: 

I want that date part without the time part: 

How can I get that?

Q: Comparing Java enum members: == or equals()?

I know that Java enums are compiled to classes with private constructors and a bunch of public static members. When comparing two members of a given enum, I've always used , e.g.

However, I just came across some code that uses the equals operator  instead of .equals():

Which operator is the one I should be using?

Q: Detecting an "invalid date" Date instance in JavaScript

I'd like to tell the difference between valid and invalid date objects in JS, but couldn't figure out how:

Any ideas for writing an  function?

- Ash recommended  for parsing date strings, which gives an authoritative way to check if the date string is valid.

- What I would prefer, if possible, is have my API accept a Date instance and to be able to check/assert whether it's valid or not. Borgar's solution does that, but I need to test it across browsers. I also wonder whether there's a more elegant way.

- Ash made me consider not having my API accept  instances at all, this would be easiest to validate.

- Borgar suggested testing for a  instance, and then testing for the 's time value. If the date is invalid, the time value is . I checked with ECMA-262 and this behavior is in the standard, which is exactly what I'm looking for.

Q: What's the difference between INNER JOIN, LEFT JOIN, RIGHT JOIN and FULL JOIN?

What's the difference between , ,  and  
in MySQL?

Q: What is the scope of variables in JavaScript?

What is the scope of variables in javascript? Do they have the same scope inside as opposed to outside a function? Or does it even matter? Also, where are the variables stored if they are defined globally?

Q: Daylight saving time and time zone best practices

I am hoping to make this question and the answers to it the definitive guide to dealing with daylight saving time, in particular for dealing with the actual change overs. 

If you have anything to add, please do

Many systems are dependent on keeping accurate time, the problem is with changes to time due to daylight savings - moving the clock forward or backwards.

For instance, one has business rules in an order taking system that depend on the time of the order - if the clock changes, the rules might not be as clear. How should the time of the order be persisted? There are of course an endless number of scenarios - this one is simply an illustrative one.

- How have you dealt with the daylight saving issue? 

- What assumptions are part of your solution? (looking for context here)

As important, if not more so:

- What did you try that did not work? 

- Why did it not work?

I would be interested in programming, OS, data persistence and other pertinent aspects of the issue.

General answers are great, but I would also like to see details especially if they are only available on one platform.

Q: Disable same origin policy in Chrome

Is there any way to disable the Same-origin policy on Google's Chrome browser?

Q: Who is listening on a given TCP port on Mac OS X?

On Linux, I can use  or  to find out which process (PID) is listening on the specified TCP port. How do I get the same information on Mac OS X?

Q: Should I use Vagrant or Docker for creating an isolated environment?

I use Ubuntu for development and deployment and have a need for creating an isolated environment. 

I am considering either Vagrant or Docker for this purpose. What are the pros and cons, or how do these solutions compare?

Q: AddTransient, AddScoped and AddSingleton Services Differences

I want to implement dependency injection (DI) in ASP.NET Core. So after adding this code to  method, both ways work.

What is the difference between the  and  methods in ASP.NET Core?

Q: How to check if a column exists in a SQL Server table

I need to add a specific column if it does not exist. I have something like the following, but it always returns false:

How can I check if a column exists in a table of the SQL Server database?

Q: Looping through the content of a file in Bash

How do I iterate through each line of a text file with Bash?

With this script:

I get this output on the screen:

(Later I want to do something more complicated with  than just output to the screen.)

The environment variable SHELL is (from env):

 output:

 output:

The file peptides.txt contains:

Q: How do I fix a Git detached head?

I was doing some work in my repository and noticed a file had local changes. I didn't want them anymore so I deleted the file, thinking I can just checkout a fresh copy. I wanted to do the Git equivalent of

Using  didn't seem to work. Some random searching led me to a site where someone recommended doing

( is the directory containing the deleted file).

Now I find out I have a detached head. I have no idea what that is. How can I undo?

Q: Why is reading lines from stdin much slower in C++ than Python?

I wanted to compare reading lines of string input from stdin using Python and C++ and was shocked to see my C++ code run an order of magnitude slower than the equivalent Python code. Since my C++ is rusty and I'm not yet an expert Pythonista, please tell me if I'm doing something wrong or if I'm misunderstanding something.

(TLDR answer: include the statement:  or just use  instead.

TLDR results: scroll all the way down to the bottom of my question and look at the table.)

C++ code:

Python Equivalent:

Here are my results:

I should note that I tried this both under Mac OS X v10.6.8 (Snow Leopard) and Linux 2.6.32 (Red Hat Linux 6.2). The former is a MacBook Pro, and the latter is a very beefy server, not that this is too pertinent.

Tiny benchmark addendum and recap

For completeness, I thought I'd update the read speed for the same file on the same box with the original (synced) C++ code. Again, this is for a 100M line file on a fast disk. Here's the comparison, with several solutions/approaches:

Implementation
Lines per second

python (default)
3,571,428

cin (default/naive)
819,672

cin (no sync)
12,500,000

fgets
14,285,714

wc (not fair comparison)
54,644,808

Q: How do I measure elapsed time in Python?

I want to measure the time it took to execute a function. I couldn't get  to work:

Q: HTML 5: Is it 
, 
, or 
?

I've tried checking other answers, but I'm still confused — especially after seeing W3schools HTML 5 reference.

I thought HTML 4.01 was supposed to "allow" single-tags to just be  and . Then XHTML came along with  and  (where someone said that the space is there for older browsers).

Now I'm wondering how I'm supposed to format my code when practicing HTML 5. 

Is it ,  or ?

Q: What is a smart pointer and when should I use one?

What is a smart pointer and when should I use one?

Q: Does Java support default parameter values?

I came across some Java code that had the following structure:

I know that in C++ I can assign a parameter a default value.  For example:

Does Java support this kind of syntax?  Are there any reasons why this two step syntax is preferable?

Q: How can I convert int to string in C++?

How can I convert from  to the equivalent  in C++?  I am aware of two methods. Is there another way?

(1)

(2)

Q: How do I create an Excel (.XLS and .XLSX) file in C# without installing Microsoft Office?

How can I create an Excel spreadsheet with C# without requiring Excel to be installed on the machine that's running the code?

Q: What is the effect of extern "C" in C++?

What exactly does putting  into C++ code do?

For example:

Q: How do I empty an array in JavaScript?

Is there a way to empty an array and if so possibly with ?

For instance, 

How can I empty that?

Q: How to decide when to use Node.js?

I am new to this kind of stuff, but lately I've been hearing a lot about how good Node.js is. Considering how much I love working with jQuery and JavaScript in general, I can't help but wonder how to decide when to use Node.js. The web application I have in mind is something like Bitly - takes some content, archives it. 

From all the homework I have been doing in the last few days, I obtained the following information. Node.js 

- is a command-line tool that can be run as a regular web server and lets one run JavaScript programs

- utilizes the great V8 JavaScript engine

- is very good when you need to do several things at the same time

- is event-based so all the wonderful Ajax-like stuff can be done on the server side

- lets us share code between the browser and the backend

- lets us talk with MySQL

Some of the sources that I have come across are:

- Diving into Node.js – Introduction and Installation

- Understanding NodeJS

- Node by Example (Archive.is)

- Let’s Make a Web App: NodePad

Considering that Node.js can be run almost out-of-the-box on Amazon's EC2 instances, I am trying to understand what type of problems require Node.js as opposed to any of the mighty kings out there like PHP, Python and Ruby. I understand that it really depends on the expertise one has on a language, but my question falls more into the general category of: When to use a particular framework and what type of problems is it particularly suited for?

A: Ways to clear an existing array :

Method 1

(this was my original answer to the question)

This code will set the variable  to a new empty array. This is perfect if you don't have references to the original array  anywhere else because this actually creates a brand new (empty) array. You should be careful with this method because if you have referenced this array from another variable or property, the original array will remain unchanged. Only use this if you only reference the array by its original variable .

This is also the fastest solution.

This code sample shows the issue you can encounter when using this method:

Method 2 (as suggested by Matthew Crumley)

This will clear the existing array by setting its length to 0. It also works when using "strict mode" in ECMAScript 5 because the length property of an array is a read/write property.

Method 3 (as suggested by Anthony)

Using  will work perfectly, but since the  function will return an array with all the removed items, it will actually return a copy of the original array. Benchmarks suggest that this has no effect on performance whatsoever.

Method 4 (as suggested by tanguy_k)

This solution is not very succinct, and it is also the slowest solution, contrary to earlier benchmarks referenced in the original answer.

Performance

Of all the methods of clearing an existing array, methods 2 and 3 are very similar in performance and are a lot faster than method 4. See this benchmark.

As pointed out by Diadistis in their answer below, the original benchmarks that were used to determine the performance of the four methods described above were flawed. The original benchmark reused the cleared array so the second iteration was clearing an array that was already empty.

The following benchmark fixes this flaw: http://jsben.ch/#/hyj65. It clearly shows that methods #2 (length property) and #3 (splice) are the fastest (not counting method #1 which doesn't change the original array).

This has been a hot topic and the cause of a lot of controversy. There are actually many correct answers and because this answer has been marked as the accepted answer for a very long time, I will include all of the methods here.

A: You can't parse [X]HTML with regex. Because HTML can't be parsed by regex. Regex is not a tool that can be used to correctly parse HTML. As I have answered in HTML-and-regex questions here so many times before, the use of regex will not allow you to consume HTML. Regular expressions are a tool that is insufficiently sophisticated to understand the constructs employed by HTML. HTML is not a regular language and hence cannot be parsed by regular expressions. Regex queries are not equipped to break down HTML into its meaningful parts. so many times but it is not getting to me. Even enhanced irregular regular expressions as used by Perl are not up to the task of parsing HTML. You will never make me crack. HTML is a language of sufficient complexity that it cannot be parsed by regular expressions. Even Jon Skeet cannot parse HTML using regular expressions. Every time you attempt to parse HTML with regular expressions, the unholy child weeps the blood of virgins, and Russian hackers pwn your webapp. Parsing HTML with regex summons tainted souls into the realm of the living. HTML and regex go together like love, marriage, and ritual infanticide. The  cannot hold it is too late. The force of regex and HTML together in the same conceptual space will destroy your mind like so much watery putty. If you parse HTML with regex you are giving in to Them and their blasphemous ways which doom us all to inhuman toil for the One whose Name cannot be expressed in the Basic Multilingual Plane, he comes. HTML-plus-regexp will liquify the n​erves of the sentient whilst you observe, your psyche withering in the onslaught of horror. Rege̿̔̉x-based HTML parsers are the cancer that is killing StackOverflow it is too late it is too late we cannot be saved the transgression of a chi͡ld ensures regex will consume all living tissue (except for HTML which it cannot, as previously prophesied) dear lord help us how can anyone survive this scourge using regex to parse HTML has doomed humanity to an eternity of dread torture and security holes using regex as a tool to process HTML establishes a breach between this world and the dread realm of c͒ͪo͛ͫrrupt entities (like SGML entities, but more corrupt) a mere glimpse of the world of reg​ex parsers for HTML will ins​tantly transport a programmer's consciousness into a world of ceaseless screaming, he comes, the pestilent slithy regex-infection wil​l devour your HT​ML parser, application and existence for all time like Visual Basic only worse he comes he comes do not fi​ght he com̡e̶s, ̕h̵i​s un̨ho͞ly radiańcé destro҉ying all enli̍̈́̂̈́ghtenment, HTML tags lea͠ki̧n͘g fr̶ǫm ̡yo​͟ur eye͢s̸ ̛l̕ik͏e liq​uid pain, the song of re̸gular exp​ression parsing will exti​nguish the voices of mor​tal man from the sp​here I can see it can you see ̲͚̖͔̙î̩́t̲͎̩̱͔́̋̀ it is beautiful t​he ffing of the lie​s of Man ALL IS LOŚ͖̩͇̗̪̏̈́T ALL I​S LOST the pon̷y he comes he c̶̮omes he comes the ich​or permeates all MY FACE MY FACE ᵒh god no NO NOO̼O​O NΘ stop the an​*̶͑̾̾​̅ͫ͏̙̤g͇̫͛͆̾ͫ̑͆l͖͉̗̩̳̟̍ͫͥͨe̠̅s n​ot rè̑ͧ̌aͨl̘̝̙̃ͤ͂̾̆ ZA̡͊͠͝LGΌ ISͮ̂҉̯͈͕̹̘̱ TO͇̹̺ͅƝ̴ȳ̳ TH̘Ë͖́̉ ͠P̯͍̭O̚​N̐Y̡ H̸̡̪̯ͨ͊̽̅̾̎Ȩ̬̩̾͛ͪ̈́̀́͘ ̶̧̨̱̹̭̯ͧ̾ͬC̷̙̲̝͖ͭ̏ͥͮ͟Oͮ͏̮̪̝͍M̲̖͊̒ͪͩͬ̚̚͜Ȇ̴̟̟͙̞ͩ͌͝S̨̥̫͎̭ͯ̿̔̀ͅ

Have you tried using an XML parser instead?

Moderator's Note

This post is locked to prevent inappropriate edits to its content. The post looks exactly as it is supposed to look - there are no problems with its content. Please do not flag it for our attention.

A: I think other answers here are wrong, because this is a question of moving the mistakenly committed files back to the staging area from the previous commit, without cancelling the changes done to them. This can be done like Paritosh Singh suggested:

or

Then reset the unwanted files in order to leave them out from the commit (the old way):

Note, that since Git  one can (the new way):

Now commit again, you can even re-use the same commit message:

EDIT: The easiest way to do this is to use e.g. . Just select  and simply uncheck the desired file from the commit and click .

A: To create a new symlink (will fail if symlink exists already):

To create or update a symlink:

A: Use . It's like , except it adds elements to the beginning of the array instead of the end.

- / - add an element to the beginning/end of an array

- /  - remove and return the first/last element of an array

A simple diagram...

and chart:

 
add
remove
start
end

X

X

X

X

X

X

X
X

Check out the MDN Array documentation. Virtually every language that has the ability to push/pop elements from an array will also have the ability to unshift/shift (sometimes called /) elements, you should never have to implement these yourself.

As pointed out in the comments, if you want to avoid mutating your original array, you can use , which concatenates two or more arrays together. You can use this to functionally push a single element onto the front or back of an existing array; to do so, you need to turn the new element into a single element array:







 can also append items. The arguments to  can be of any type; they are implicitly wrapped in a single-element array, if they are not already an array:

A: You will need to save the Docker image as a tar file:

Then copy your image to a new system with regular file transfer tools such as , , or  (preferred for big files). After that you will have to load the image into Docker:

You should add filename (not just directory) with -o, for example:

your image syntax may need the repository prefix (:latest tag is default)

PS: You may need to  all commands.

A: In light of the passage of time, as people have mentioned, you can now safely just use:

A: Given a select element that looks like this:

Running this code:

Results in:

Interactive example:

A: The following command deletes all your stashes:

From the git documentation:

Remove all the stashed states.

IMPORTANT WARNING: Those states will then be subject to pruning, and may be impossible to recover (...).

A: The best way to do this in Pandas is to use :

where  is the axis number ( for rows and  for columns.)

Or, the  method accepts / keywords as an alternative to specifying the axis. So we can now just do:

- This was introduced in v0.21.0 (October 27, 2017)

To delete the column without having to reassign  you can do:

Finally, to drop by column number instead of by column label, try this to delete, e.g. the 1st, 2nd and 4th columns:

Also working with "text" syntax for the columns:

A: This solution only works if the container is connected with a single network. The  option of  comes to the rescue.

Modern Docker client syntax is:

Old Docker client syntax is:

These commands will return the Docker container's IP address.

As mentioned in the comments: if you are on Windows, use double quotes  instead of single quotes  around the curly braces.

A: To remove the line and print the output to standard out:

To directly modify the file (it does not work with BSD sed):

The same, but for BSD sed (Mac OS X and FreeBSD. It does not work with GNU sed):

To directly modify the file (and create a backup. It works with BSD and GNU sed):

A: Also works for multi-line array declaration

A: While parsing arbitrary HTML with only a regex is impossible, it's sometimes appropriate to use them for parsing a limited, known set of HTML.

If you have a small set of HTML pages that you want to scrape data from and then stuff into a database, regexes might work fine.  For example, I recently wanted to get the names, parties, and districts of Australian federal Representatives, which I got off of the Parliament's web site.  This was a limited, one-time job.

Regexes worked just fine for me, and were very fast to set up.

A: Did You Start ?

You might need to start  before you run the  command:

Note that this will start the agent for msysgit Bash on Windows. If you're using a different shell or operating system, you might need to use a variant of the command, such as those listed in the other answers.

See the following answers:

- ssh-add complains: Could not open a connection to your authentication agent

- Git push requires username and password (contains detailed instructions on how to use ssh-agent)

- How to run (git/ssh) authentication agent?.

- Could not open a connection to your authentication agent

To automatically start ssh-agent and allow a single instance to work in multiple console windows, see Start ssh-agent on login.
Why do we need to use  instead of just ?

SSH needs two things in order to use ssh-agent: an ssh-agent instance running in the background, and an environment variable set that tells SSH which socket it should use to connect to the agent (SSH_AUTH_SOCK IIRC). If you just run ssh-agent then the agent will start, but SSH will have no idea where to find it.

from this comment.
Public vs Private Keys

Also, whenever I use , I always add private keys to it. The file  looks like a public key, I'm not sure if that will work.  Do you have a  file? If you open it in a text editor, does it say it's a private key?

A: You can enter the long form command:

or you can use the shorter version of the command:

A: Use :

For cryptographically secure random choices (e.g., for generating a passphrase from a wordlist), use :

 is new in Python 3.6. On older versions of Python you can use the  class:

A: To pad strings:

To pad numbers:

String formatting documentation.

A: TL;DR

Transient objects are always different; a new instance is provided to
every controller and every service.

Scoped objects are the same within a request, but different across
different requests.

Singleton objects are the same for every object and every request.

For more clarification, this example from .NET documentation shows the difference:

To demonstrate the difference between these lifetime and registration options, consider a simple interface that represents one or more tasks as an operation with a unique identifier, . Depending on how we configure the lifetime for this service, the container will provide either the same or different instances of the service to the requesting class. To make it clear which lifetime is being requested, we will create one type per lifetime option:

We implement these interfaces using a single class, , that accepts a GUID in its constructor, or uses a new GUID if none is provided:

Next, in , each type is added to the container according to its named lifetime:

Note that the  service is using a specific instance with a known ID of , so it will be clear when this type is in use. We have also registered an  that depends on each of the other  types, so that it will be clear within a request whether this service is getting the same instance as the controller, or a new one, for each operation type. All this service does is expose its dependencies as properties, so they can be displayed in the view.

To demonstrate the object lifetimes within and between separate individual requests to the application, the sample includes an  that requests each kind of  type as well as an . The  action then displays all of the controller’s and service’s  values.

Now two separate requests are made to this controller action:

Observe which of the  values varies within a request, and between requests.

- 

Transient objects are always different; a new instance is provided to every controller and every service.

- 

Scoped objects are the same within a request, but different across different requests

- 

Singleton objects are the same for every object and every request (regardless of whether an instance is provided in )

A: I'm assuming you're using XML layout.

You can also use gravity  or  according to your need.

As @stealthcopter commented, in java: .

And for Kotlin users,

A: On macOS  and later, use this command:

or to just see just IPv4:

On older versions, use one of the following forms:

Substitute  with the port number or a comma-separated list of port numbers.

 may not be needed if you need information on ports above 1023.

The  flag is for displaying IP addresses instead of host names. This makes the command execute much faster, because DNS lookups to get the host names can be slow (several seconds or a minute for many hosts).

The  flag is for displaying raw port numbers instead of resolved names like ,  or more esoteric service names like , .

See the comments for more options.

For completeness, because frequently used together:

To kill the PID:

A: It's as simple as this:

Note: some shells treat  as a special character (for example some Windows shells or ZSH with globbing enabled), so you may have to quote  or use  in those cases.

 without a  or  moves your  to point to the specified commit, without changing any files.  refers to the (first) parent commit of your current commit, which in your case is the commit before the temporary one.

Note that another option is to carry on as normal, and then at the next commit point instead run:

which will instead edit the most recent commit, having the same effect as above.

Note that this (as with nearly every git answer) can cause problems if you've already pushed the bad commit to a place where someone else may have pulled it from. Try to avoid that

A: Try this (in the  command-line tool):

See the manual for more info.

A: The first parameter represents the regular expression to search for, while the second one represents the directory that should be searched. In this case,  means the current directory.

Note: This works for GNU grep, and on some platforms like Solaris you must specifically use GNU grep as opposed to legacy implementation.  For Solaris this is the  command.

A: TL;DR answer

( matches the inverse of given string;  removes control sequences:  matches esc)

(It seems that pull fetches all branches from all remotes, but I always fetch first just to be sure.)

Run the first command only if there are remote branches on the server that aren't tracked by your local branches.
Complete answer

You can fetch all branches from all remotes like this:

It's basically a power move.

 updates local copies of remote branches so this is always safe for your local branches BUT:

- 

 will not update local branches (which track remote branches); if you want to update your local branches you still need to pull every branch.

- 

 will not create local branches (which track remote branches), you have to do this manually. If you want to list all remote branches:

To update local branches which track remote branches:

However, this can be still insufficient. It will work only for your local branches which track remote branches. To track all remote branches execute this oneliner BEFORE :

P.S. AFAIK  and  are equivalent.

Kamil Szot's comment, which folks have found useful.

I had to use:

because your code created local branches named  and
I was getting "refname 'origin/branchname' is ambiguous whenever I
referred to it.

A: Empty strings are "falsy" (python 2 or python 3 reference), which means they are considered false in a Boolean context, so you can just do this:

This is the preferred way if you do not need to differentiate between an empty string and some other falsy value. To explicitly check for an empty string use the following:

See the documentation on Truth Value Testing for other values that are false in Boolean contexts.

A: Detached head means you are no longer on a branch, you have checked out a single commit in the history (in this case the commit previous to HEAD, i.e. HEAD^).
If you want to keep your changes associated with the detached HEAD

- Run  - this will save your changes in a new branch called .

- Run 

- If you would like to incorporate the changes you made into , run  from the  branch. You should be on the  branch after running .

If you want to delete your changes associated with the detached HEAD

You only need to checkout the branch you were on, e.g.

Next time you have changed a file and want to restore it to the state it is in the index, don't delete the file first, just do

This will restore the file foo to the state it is in the index.

A: can show you the difference between two commits:

Or, equivalently:

Note you must specify the relative path to the file. So if the file were in the src directory, you'd say  instead of .

Using the latter syntax, if either side is  it may be omitted (e.g.,  compares  to ).

You may also be interested in  (from  documentation):

This form is to view the changes on the branch containing and up to the second , starting at a common ancestor of both .  is equivalent to .

In other words, this will give a diff of changes in  since it diverged from  (but without new changes since then in ).

In all cases, the  separator before the file name indicates the end of command line flags (mind the space between the separator and the filename). This is optional unless Git will get confused if the argument refers to a commit or a file, but including it is not a bad habit to get into. See Dietrich Epp's answer to Meaning of Git checkout double dashes for a few examples.

The same arguments can be passed to  if you have one configured.

A: One way to do it is:

As pointed out in the comments, this has the side effects of trimming leading whitespace, interpreting backslash sequences, and skipping the last line if it's missing a terminating linefeed. If these are concerns, you can do:

Exceptionally, if the loop body may read from standard input, you can open the file using a different file descriptor:

Here, 10 is just an arbitrary number (different from 0, 1, 2).

A: Just cast the enum, e.g.

The above will work for the vast majority of enums you see in the wild, as the default underlying type for an enum is .

However, as cecilphillip points out, enums can have different underlying types.
If an enum is declared as a , , or , it should be cast to the type of the enum; e.g. for

you should use

A: If you want to merge branch  from  into :

Taken from: git merge different repositories?

This method worked pretty well for me, it's shorter and in my opinion a lot cleaner.

In case you want to put  into a subdirectory, you can use  ( is discouraged). Run the following commands before the commands above:

An example of merging 2 big repositories, putting one of them into a subdirectory: https://gist.github.com/x-yuri/9890ab1079cf4357d6f269d073fd9731

Note: 

The  parameter only exists since git >= 2.9. See Git - git merge Documentation / --allow-unrelated-histories

Update: 

Added  as suggested by @jstadler in order to keep tags.

A: The  function can be used with several different types in Python - both built-in types and library types. For example:

A: The jQuery constructor accepts a 2nd parameter called  which can be used to override the context of the selection. 

Which is the same as using  like this:

If the imgs you desire are only direct descendants of the clicked element, you can also use :

A: In C# 5 and earlier, to give auto implemented properties an initial value, you have to do it in a constructor.

Since C# 6.0, you can specify initial value in-line. The syntax is:

 is intended to be used by the VS designer (or any other consumer) to specify a default value, not an initial value. (Even if in designed object, initial value is the default value).

At compile time  will not impact the generated IL and it will not be read to initialize the property to that value (see DefaultValue attribute is not working with my Auto Property).

Example of attributes that impact the IL are , , ...

A: Ruby uses the  expression instead.

Ruby compares the object in the  clause with the object in the  clause using the  operator. For example, , and not .

This allows for sophisticated  clauses as seen above. Ranges, classes and all sorts of things can be tested for rather than just equality.

Unlike  statements in many other languages, Ruby’s  does not have fall-through, so there is no need to end each  with a . You can also specify multiple matches in a single  clause like .

A: To see the diff for a particular  hash, where  is the hash of the commit:

 will show you the difference between that 's ancestor and the . See the man pages for git diff for details about the command and gitrevisions about the  notation and its friends.

Alternatively,  will do something very similar. (The commit's data, including its diff - but not for merge commits.) See the git show manpage.

(also  will show you the difference between that  and the head.)

A: To compare the current branch against  branch:

To compare any two branches:

There are more options to  in the official documentation (and specifically the  option).

A: Because Floating Point Math is not Associative.  The way you group the operands in floating point multiplication has an effect on the numerical accuracy of the answer.

As a result, most compilers are very conservative about reordering floating point calculations unless they can be sure that the answer will stay the same, or unless you tell them you don't care about numerical accuracy.  For example: the  option of gcc which allows gcc to reassociate floating point operations, or even the  option which allows even more aggressive tradeoffs of accuracy against speed.

A: There's no built-in ability to  in . To interrupt execution you would have to throw an exception of some sort. eg.







JavaScript exceptions aren't terribly pretty. A traditional  loop might be more appropriate if you really need to  inside it.
Use 

Instead, use :







This works because  returns  as soon as any of the callbacks, executed in array order, return , short-circuiting the execution of the rest.

, its inverse  (which will stop on a ), and  are all ECMAScript Fifth Edition methods which will need to be added to the  on browsers where they're missing.

A: Call the global  object's  method:

From the docs:

Ends the process with the specified . If omitted, exit with a 'success' code .

To exit with a 'failure' code:

The shell that executed node should see the exit code as .

A: If you want to match only elements with both classes (an intersection, like a logical AND), just write the selectors together without spaces in between:

The order is not relevant, so you can also swap the classes:

So to match a  element that has an ID of  with classes  and , you would write:

(In practice, you most likely don't need to get that specific, and an ID or class selector by itself is usually enough: .)

A: C++11 introduces  (and variants for each numeric type) and , the counterparts of the C  and  but expressed in term of .

is therefore the shortest way I can think of. You can even omit naming the type, using the  keyword:

Note: see [string.conversions] (21.5 in n3242)

Note: for faster/non-allocating conversions, consider the  library's  as per @vitaut's answer.

A: NOTE: This answer returns the original  or  type. For an expression that returns a true  type (SQL Server 2008 and later), see BenR's answer below.

for example

gives me

Pros:

- No varchardatetime conversions required

- No need to think about locale

A: If  doesn't work for you, this will:

Caveat: requires traversing all of the unwanted directories.

A: There's no way to set the vertical-align on a , but you can get the same effect by changing the label's frame. I've made my labels orange so you can see clearly what's happening.

Here's the quick and easy way to do this:

If you have a label with longer text that will make more than one line, set  to  (zero here means an unlimited number of lines).

Longer Version

I'll make my label in code so that you can see what's going on. You can set up most of this in Interface Builder too. My setup is a View-Based App with a background image I made in Photoshop to show margins (20 points). The label is an attractive orange color so you can see what's going on with the dimensions.

Some limitations of using  come into play with center- or right-aligned text. Here's what happens:

The label is still sized with a fixed top-left corner. You can save the original label's width in a variable and set it after , or give it a fixed width to counter these problems:

Note that  will respect your initial label's minimum width. If you start with a label 100 wide and call  on it, it will give you back a (possibly very tall) label with 100 (or a little less) width. You might want to set your label to the minimum width you want before resizing.

Some other things to note:

Whether  is respected depends on how it's set.  (the default) is ignored after , as are the other two truncation modes (head and middle).  is also ignored.  works as usual. The frame width is still narrowed to fit to the rightmost letter.

Mark Amery gave a fix for NIBs and Storyboards using Auto Layout in the comments:

  

If your label is included in a nib or storyboard as a subview of the  of a ViewController that uses autolayout, then putting your  call into  won't work, because autolayout sizes and positions the subviews after  is called and will immediately undo the effects of your  call. However, calling  from within  will work.

My Original Answer (for posterity/reference):

This uses the  method  to calculate the frame height needed to fit a string, then sets the origin and width.

Resize the frame for the label using the text you want to insert. That way you can accommodate any number of lines.

A: A JavaBean is just a standard. It is a regular Java , except it follows certain conventions:

- All properties are private (use getters/setters)

- A public no-argument constructor

- Implements .

That's it. It's just a convention.  Lots of libraries depend on it though.

With respect to , from the API documentation:

Serializability of a class is enabled by the class implementing the
java.io.Serializable interface. Classes that do not implement this
interface will not have any of their state serialized or deserialized.
All subtypes of a serializable class are themselves serializable. The
serialization interface has no methods or fields and serves only to
identify the semantics of being serializable.

In other words, serializable objects can be written to streams, and hence files, object databases, anything really.

Also, there is no syntactic difference between a JavaBean and another class -- a class is a JavaBean if it follows the standards.

There is a term for it, because the standard allows libraries to programmatically do things with class instances you define in a predefined way. For example, if a library wants to stream any object you pass into it, it knows it can because your object is serializable (assuming the library requires your objects be proper JavaBeans).

A: If you need to keep the original array because you have other references to it that should be updated too, you can clear it without creating a new array by setting its length to zero:

A: Real, User and Sys process time statistics

One of these things is not like the other.  Real refers to actual elapsed time; User and Sys refer to CPU time used only by the process.

- 

Real is wall clock time - time from start to finish of the call.  This is all elapsed time including time slices used by other processes and time the process spends blocked (for example if it is waiting for I/O to complete).

- 

User is the amount of CPU time spent in user-mode code (outside the kernel) within the process.  This is only actual CPU time used in executing the process.  Other processes and time the process spends blocked do not count towards this figure.

- 

Sys is the amount of CPU time spent in the kernel within the process.  This means executing CPU time spent in system calls within the kernel, as opposed to library code, which is still running in user-space.  Like 'user', this is only CPU time used by the process.  See below for a brief description of kernel mode (also known as 'supervisor' mode) and the system call mechanism.

'User'+'Sys' will tell you how much actual CPU time your process used.  Note that this is across all CPUs, so if the process has multiple threads (and this process is running on a computer with more than one processor) it could potentially exceed the wall clock time reported by 'Real' (which usually occurs).  Note that in the output these figures include the 'User' and 'Sys' time of all child processes (and their descendants) as well when they could have been collected, e.g. by  or , although the underlying system calls return the statistics for the process and its children separately.
Origins of the statistics reported by 

The statistics reported by  are gathered from various system calls.  'User' and 'Sys' come from  (POSIX) or  (POSIX), depending on the particular system.  'Real' is calculated from a start and end time gathered from the  call.  Depending on the version of the system, various other statistics such as the number of context switches may also be gathered by .

On a multi-processor machine, a multi-threaded process or a process forking children could have an elapsed time smaller than the total CPU time - as different threads or processes may run in parallel.  Also, the time statistics reported come from different origins, so times recorded for very short running tasks may be subject to rounding errors, as the example given by the original poster shows.
A brief primer on Kernel vs. User mode

On Unix, or any protected-memory operating system, 'Kernel' or 'Supervisor' mode refers to a privileged mode that the CPU can operate in.  Certain privileged actions that could affect security or stability can only be done when the CPU is operating in this mode; these actions are not available to application code.  An example of such an action might be manipulation of the MMU to gain access to the address space of another process.  Normally, user-mode code cannot do this (with good reason), although it can request shared memory from the kernel, which could be read or written by more than one process.  In this case, the shared memory is explicitly requested from the kernel through a secure mechanism and both processes have to explicitly attach to it in order to use it.

The privileged mode is usually referred to as 'kernel' mode because the kernel is executed by the CPU running in this mode.  In order to switch to kernel mode you have to issue a specific instruction (often called a trap) that switches the CPU to running in kernel mode and runs code from a specific location held in a jump table.  For security reasons, you cannot switch to kernel mode and execute arbitrary code - the traps are managed through a table of addresses that cannot be written to unless the CPU is running in supervisor mode.  You trap with an explicit trap number and the address is looked up in the jump table; the kernel has a finite number of controlled entry points.

The 'system' calls in the C library (particularly those described in Section 2 of the man pages) have a user-mode component, which is what you actually call from your C program.  Behind the scenes, they may issue one or more system calls to the kernel to do specific services such as I/O, but they still also have code running in user-mode.  It is also quite possible to directly issue a trap to kernel mode from any user space code if desired, although you may need to write a snippet of assembly language to set up the registers correctly for the call.
More about 'sys'

There are things that your code cannot do from user mode - things like allocating memory or accessing hardware (HDD, network, etc.). These are under the supervision of the kernel, and it alone can do them. Some operations like  or / will invoke these kernel functions and that then will count as 'sys' time. Unfortunately it's not as simple as "every call to malloc will be counted in 'sys' time". The call to  will do some processing of its own (still counted in 'user' time) and then somewhere along the way it may call the function in kernel (counted in 'sys' time). After returning from the kernel call, there will be some more time in 'user' and then  will return to your code. As for when the switch happens, and how much of it is spent in kernel mode... you cannot say. It depends on the implementation of the library. Also, other seemingly innocent functions might also use  and the like in the background, which will again have some time in 'sys' then.

A: TLDR

JavaScript has lexical (also called static) scoping and closures. This means you can tell the scope of an identifier by looking at the source code.

The four scopes are:

- Global - visible by everything

- Function - visible within a function (and its sub-functions and blocks)

- Block - visible within a block (and its sub-blocks)

- Module - visible within a module

Outside of the special cases of global and module scope, variables are declared using  (function scope),  (block scope), and  (block scope). Most other forms of identifier declaration have block scope in strict mode.
Overview

Scope is the region of the codebase over which an identifier is valid.

A lexical environment is a mapping between identifier names and the values associated with them.

Scope is formed of a linked nesting of lexical environments, with each level in the nesting corresponding to a lexical environment of an ancestor execution context.

These linked lexical environments form a scope "chain". Identifier resolution is the process of searching along this chain for a matching identifier.

Identifier resolution only occurs in one direction: outwards. In this way, outer lexical environments cannot "see" into inner lexical environments.

There are three pertinent factors in deciding the scope of an identifier in JavaScript:

- How an identifier was declared

- Where an identifier was declared

- Whether you are in strict mode or non-strict mode

Some of the ways identifiers can be declared:

- ,  and 

- Function parameters

- Catch block parameter

- Function declarations

- Named function expressions

- Implicitly defined properties on the global object (i.e., missing out  in non-strict mode)

-  statements

- 

Some of the locations identifiers can be declared:

- Global context

- Function body

- Ordinary block

- The top of a control structure (e.g., loop, if, while, etc.)

- Control structure body

- Modules

Declaration Styles
var

Identifiers declared using  have function scope, apart from when they are declared directly in the global context, in which case they are added as properties on the global object and have global scope. There are separate rules for their use in  functions.
let and const

Identifiers declared using  and  have block scope, apart from when they are declared directly in the global context, in which case they have global scope.

Note: ,  and  are all hoisted. This means that their logical position of definition is the top of their enclosing scope (block or function). However, variables declared using  and  cannot be read or assigned to until control has passed the point of declaration in the source code. The interim period is known as the temporal dead zone.







Function parameter names

Function parameter names are scoped to the function body. Note that there is a slight complexity to this. Functions declared as default arguments close over the parameter list, and not the body of the function.
Function declarations

Function declarations have block scope in strict mode and function scope in non-strict mode. Note: non-strict mode is a complicated set of emergent rules based on the quirky historical implementations of different browsers.
Named function expressions

Named function expressions are scoped to themselves (e.g., for the purpose of recursion).
Implicitly defined properties on the global object

In non-strict mode, implicitly defined properties on the global object have global scope, because the global object sits at the top of the scope chain. In strict mode, these are not permitted.
eval

In  strings, variables declared using  will be placed in the current scope, or, if  is used indirectly, as properties on the global object.
Examples

The following will throw a ReferenceError because the names, , and  have no meaning outside of the function .







The following will throw a ReferenceError for  and , but not for , because the visibility of  is not constrained by the block. Blocks that define the bodies of control structures like , , and , behave similarly.







In the following,  is visible outside of the loop because  has function scope:







...because of this behavior, you need to be careful about closing over variables declared using  in loops. There is only one instance of variable  declared here, and it sits logically outside of the loop.

The following prints , five times, and then prints  a sixth time for the  outside the loop:







The following prints  because  is block-scoped. The callbacks are run one by one asynchronously. New behavior for  variables means that each anonymous function closed over a different variable named  (unlike it would have done with ), and so integers  through  are printed.:







The following will NOT throw a  because the visibility of  is not constrained by the block; it will, however, print  because the variable has not been initialised (because of the  statement).







A variable declared at the top of a  loop using  is scoped to the body of the loop:







The following will throw a  because the visibility of  is constrained by the block:







Variables declared using ,  or  are all scoped to modules:

The following will declare a property on the global object because variables declared using  within the global context are added as properties to the global object:







 and  in the global context do not add properties to the global object, but still have global scope:







Function parameters can be considered to be declared in the function body:







Catch block parameters are scoped to the catch-block body:







Named function expressions are scoped only to the expression itself:







In non-strict mode, implicitly defined properties on the global object are globally scoped. In strict mode, you get an error.







In non-strict mode, function declarations have function scope. In strict mode, they have block scope.







How it works under the hood

Scope is defined as the lexical region of code over which an identifier is valid.

In JavaScript, every function-object has a hidden  reference that is a reference to the lexical environment of the execution context (stack frame) within which it was created.

When you invoke a function, the hidden  method is called. This method creates a new execution context and establishes a link between the new execution context and the lexical environment of the function-object. It does this by copying the  value on the function-object, into an outer reference field on the lexical environment of the new execution context.

Note that this link between the new execution context and the lexical environment of the function object is called a closure.

Thus, in JavaScript, scope is implemented via lexical environments linked together in a "chain" by outer references. This chain of lexical environments is called the scope chain, and identifier resolution occurs by searching up the chain for a matching identifier.

Find out more.

A: Yes,  will give you .

Note that the name must be an exact match, including case:  and  both throw an .

The static methods  and  are created at compile time and do not appear in source code. They do appear in Javadoc, though; for example,  shows both methods.

A: Use  to measure the elapsed wall-clock time between two points:

This gives the execution time in seconds.

Another option since Python 3.3 might be to use  or , depending on your requirements. Before 3.3 it was recommended to use  (thanks Amber). However, it is currently deprecated:

On Unix, return the current processor time as a floating point number
expressed in seconds. The precision, and in fact the very definition
of the meaning of “processor time”, depends on that of the C function
of the same name.

On Windows, this function returns wall-clock seconds elapsed since the
first call to this function, as a floating point number, based on the
Win32 function . The resolution is typically
better than one microsecond.

Deprecated since version 3.3: The behaviour of this function depends
on the platform: use  or  instead,
depending on your requirements, to have a well defined behaviour.

A: Overview
Why do we need the copy-and-swap idiom?

Any class that manages a resource (a wrapper, like a smart pointer) needs to implement The Big Three. While the goals and implementation of the copy-constructor and destructor are straightforward, the copy-assignment operator is arguably the most nuanced and difficult. How should it be done? What pitfalls need to be avoided?

The copy-and-swap idiom is the solution, and elegantly assists the assignment operator in achieving two things: avoiding code duplication, and providing a strong exception guarantee.
How does it work?

Conceptually, it works by using the copy-constructor's functionality to create a local copy of the data, then takes the copied data with a  function, swapping the old data with the new data. The temporary copy then destructs, taking the old data with it. We are left with a copy of the new data.

In order to use the copy-and-swap idiom, we need three things: a working copy-constructor, a working destructor (both are the basis of any wrapper, so should be complete anyway), and a  function.

A swap function is a non-throwing function that swaps two objects of a class, member for member. We might be tempted to use  instead of providing our own, but this would be impossible;  uses the copy-constructor and copy-assignment operator within its implementation, and we'd ultimately be trying to define the assignment operator in terms of itself!

(Not only that, but unqualified calls to  will use our custom swap operator, skipping over the unnecessary construction and destruction of our class that  would entail.)

An in-depth explanation
The goal

Let's consider a concrete case. We want to manage, in an otherwise useless class, a dynamic array. We start with a working constructor, copy-constructor, and destructor:

This class almost manages the array successfully, but it needs  to work correctly.
A failed solution

Here's how a naive implementation might look:

And we say we're finished; this now manages an array, without leaks. However, it suffers from three problems, marked sequentially in the code as .

- 

The first is the self-assignment test.

This check serves two purposes: it's an easy way to prevent us from running needless code on self-assignment, and it protects us from subtle bugs (such as deleting the array only to try and copy it). But in all other cases it merely serves to slow the program down, and act as noise in the code; self-assignment rarely occurs, so most of the time this check is a waste.

It would be better if the operator could work properly without it.

- 

The second is that it only provides a basic exception guarantee. If  fails,  will have been modified. (Namely, the size is wrong and the data is gone!)

For a strong exception guarantee, it would need to be something akin to:

- 

The code has expanded! Which leads us to the third problem: code duplication.

Our assignment operator effectively duplicates all the code we've already written elsewhere, and that's a terrible thing.

In our case, the core of it is only two lines (the allocation and the copy), but with more complex resources this code bloat can be quite a hassle. We should strive to never repeat ourselves.

(One might wonder: if this much code is needed to manage one resource correctly, what if my class manages more than one?

While this may seem to be a valid concern, and indeed it requires non-trivial / clauses, this is a non-issue.

That's because a class should manage one resource only!)
A successful solution

As mentioned, the copy-and-swap idiom will fix all these issues. But right now, we have all the requirements except one: a  function. While The Rule of Three successfully entails the existence of our copy-constructor, assignment operator, and destructor, it should really be called "The Big Three and A Half": any time your class manages a resource it also makes sense to provide a  function.

We need to add swap functionality to our class, and we do that as follows†:

(Here is the explanation why .) Now not only can we swap our 's, but swaps in general can be more efficient; it merely swaps pointers and sizes, rather than allocating and copying entire arrays. Aside from this bonus in functionality and efficiency, we are now ready to implement the copy-and-swap idiom.

Without further ado, our assignment operator is:

And that's it! With one fell swoop, all three problems are elegantly tackled at once.
Why does it work?

We first notice an important choice: the parameter argument is taken by-value. While one could just as easily do the following (and indeed, many naive implementations of the idiom do):

We lose an important optimization opportunity. Not only that, but this choice is critical in C++11, which is discussed later. (On a general note, a remarkably useful guideline is as follows: if you're going to make a copy of something in a function, let the compiler do it in the parameter list.‡)

Either way, this method of obtaining our resource is the key to eliminating code duplication: we get to use the code from the copy-constructor to make the copy, and never need to repeat any bit of it. Now that the copy is made, we are ready to swap.

Observe that upon entering the function that all the new data is already allocated, copied, and ready to be used. This is what gives us a strong exception guarantee for free: we won't even enter the function if construction of the copy fails, and it's therefore not possible to alter the state of . (What we did manually before for a strong exception guarantee, the compiler is doing for us now; how kind.)

At this point we are home-free, because  is non-throwing. We swap our current data with the copied data, safely altering our state, and the old data gets put into the temporary. The old data is then released when the function returns. (Where upon the parameter's scope ends and its destructor is called.)

Because the idiom repeats no code, we cannot introduce bugs within the operator. Note that this means we are rid of the need for a self-assignment check, allowing a single uniform implementation of . (Additionally, we no longer have a performance penalty on non-self-assignments.)

And that is the copy-and-swap idiom.
What about C++11?

The next version of C++, C++11, makes one very important change to how we manage resources: the Rule of Three is now The Rule of Four (and a half). Why? Because not only do we need to be able to copy-construct our resource, we need to move-construct it as well.

Luckily for us, this is easy:

What's going on here? Recall the goal of move-construction: to take the resources from another instance of the class, leaving it in a state guaranteed to be assignable and destructible.

So what we've done is simple: initialize via the default constructor (a C++11 feature), then swap with ; we know a default constructed instance of our class can safely be assigned and destructed, so we know  will be able to do the same, after swapping.

(Note that some compilers do not support constructor delegation; in this case, we have to manually default construct the class. This is an unfortunate but luckily trivial task.)
Why does that work?

That is the only change we need to make to our class, so why does it work? Remember the ever-important decision we made to make the parameter a value and not a reference:

Now, if  is being initialized with an rvalue, it will be move-constructed. Perfect. In the same way C++03 let us re-use our copy-constructor functionality by taking the argument by-value, C++11 will automatically pick the move-constructor when appropriate as well. (And, of course, as mentioned in previously linked article, the copying/moving of the value may simply be elided altogether.)

And so concludes the copy-and-swap idiom.

Footnotes

*Why do we set  to null? Because if any further code in the operator throws, the destructor of  might be called; and if that happens without setting it to null, we attempt to delete memory that's already been deleted! We avoid this by setting it to null, as deleting null is a no-operation.

†There are other claims that we should specialize  for our type, provide an in-class  along-side a free-function , etc. But this is all unnecessary: any proper use of  will be through an unqualified call, and our function will be found through ADL. One function will do.

‡The reason is simple: once you have the resource to yourself, you may swap and/or move it (C++11) anywhere it needs to be. And by making the copy in the parameter list, you maximize optimization.

††The move constructor should generally be , otherwise some code (e.g.  resizing logic) will use the copy constructor even when a move would make sense. Of course, only mark it noexcept if the code inside doesn't throw exceptions.

A: React Router v6.6.1 with useNavigate

The  hook is now deprecated. If you are using React Router 6, the proper way to navigate programmatically is as follows:

React Router v5.1.0 with hooks

There is a new  hook in React Router higher than 5.1.0, if you are using React higher than 16.8.0 and functional components.

React Router v4

With v4 of React Router, there are three approaches that you can take to programmatic routing within components.

- Use the  higher-order component.

- Use composition and render a 

- Use the .

React Router is mostly a wrapper around the  library.  handles interaction with the browser's  for you with its browser and hash histories. It also provides a memory history which is useful for environments that don't have a global history. This is particularly useful in mobile app development () and unit testing with Node.js.

A  instance has two methods for navigating:  and . If you think of the  as an array of visited locations,  will add a new location to the array and  will replace the current location in the array with the new one. Typically you will want to use the  method when you are navigating.

In earlier versions of React Router, you had to create your own  instance, but in v4 the , , and  components will create a browser, hash, and memory instances for you. React Router makes the properties and methods of the  instance associated with your router available through the context, under the  object.
1. Use the  higher-order component

The  higher-order component will inject the  object as a prop of the component. This allows you to access the  and  methods without having to deal with the .

2. Use composition and render a 

The  component isn't just for matching locations. You can render a pathless route and it will always match the current location. The  component passes the same props as , so you will be able to access the  methods through the  prop.

3. Use the context*

But you probably should not

The last option is one that you should only use if you feel comfortable working with React's context model (React's Context API is stable as of v16).

1 and 2 are the simplest choices to implement, so for most use cases, they are your best bets.

A: Actually, in this case it's quite simple: apply the vertical align to the image. Since it's all in one line, it's really the image you want aligned, not the text.

Tested in FF3.

Now you can use flexbox for this type of layout.

A: If ,  is an object (except a function) or . If you want , arrays, and functions to be excluded, just make it:

A: Use  and specify the index of the element you want to delete:

Also supports slices:

Here is the section from the tutorial.

A: Iterating over properties requires this additional  check: 

It's necessary because an object's prototype contains additional properties for the object which are technically part of the object. These additional properties are inherited from the base object class, but are still properties of .

 simply checks to see if this is a property specific to this class, and not one inherited from the base class.

It's also possible to call  through the object itself:

But this will fail if the object has an unrelated field with the same name:

That's why it's safer to call it through  instead:

A: First, you have to learn to think like a Language Lawyer.

The C++ specification does not make reference to any particular compiler, operating system, or CPU.  It makes reference to an abstract machine that is a generalization of actual systems.  In the Language Lawyer world, the job of the programmer is to write code for the abstract machine; the job of the compiler is to actualize that code on a concrete machine.  By coding rigidly to the spec, you can be certain that your code will compile and run without modification on any system with a compliant C++ compiler, whether today or 50 years from now.

The abstract machine in the C++98/C++03 specification is fundamentally single-threaded.  So it is not possible to write multi-threaded C++ code that is "fully portable" with respect to the spec.  The spec does not even say anything about the atomicity of memory loads and stores or the order in which loads and stores might happen, never mind things like mutexes.

Of course, you can write multi-threaded code in practice for particular concrete systems – like pthreads or Windows.  But there is no standard way to write multi-threaded code for C++98/C++03.

The abstract machine in C++11 is multi-threaded by design.  It also has a well-defined memory model; that is, it says what the compiler may and may not do when it comes to accessing memory.

Consider the following example, where a pair of global variables are accessed concurrently by two threads:

What might Thread 2 output?

Under C++98/C++03, this is not even Undefined Behavior; the question itself is meaningless because the standard does not contemplate anything called a "thread".

Under C++11, the result is Undefined Behavior, because loads and stores need not be atomic in general.  Which may not seem like much of an improvement...  And by itself, it's not.

But with C++11, you can write this:

Now things get much more interesting.  First of all, the behavior here is defined.  Thread 2 could now print  (if it runs before Thread 1),  (if it runs after Thread 1), or  (if it runs after Thread 1 assigns to x but before it assigns to y).

What it cannot print is , because the default mode for atomic loads/stores in C++11 is to enforce sequential consistency.  This just means all loads and stores must be "as if" they happened in the order you wrote them within each thread, while operations among threads can be interleaved however the system likes.  So the default behavior of atomics provides both atomicity and ordering for loads and stores.

Now, on a modern CPU, ensuring sequential consistency can be expensive.  In particular, the compiler is likely to emit full-blown memory barriers between every access here.  But if your algorithm can tolerate out-of-order loads and stores; i.e., if it requires atomicity but not ordering; i.e., if it can tolerate  as output from this program, then you can write this:

The more modern the CPU, the more likely this is to be faster than the previous example.

Finally, if you just need to keep particular loads and stores in order, you can write:

This takes us back to the ordered loads and stores – so  is no longer a possible output – but it does so with minimal overhead.  (In this trivial example, the result is the same as full-blown sequential consistency; in a larger program, it would not be.)

Of course, if the only outputs you want to see are  or , you can just wrap a mutex around the original code.  But if you have read this far, I bet you already know how that works, and this answer is already longer than I intended :-).

So, bottom line. Mutexes are great, and C++11 standardizes them. But sometimes for performance reasons you want lower-level primitives (e.g., the classic double-checked locking pattern).  The new standard provides high-level gadgets like mutexes and condition variables, and it also provides low-level gadgets like atomic types and the various flavors of memory barrier.  So now you can write sophisticated, high-performance concurrent routines entirely within the language specified by the standard, and you can be certain your code will compile and run unchanged on both today's systems and tomorrow's.

Although to be frank, unless you are an expert and working on some serious low-level code, you should probably stick to mutexes and condition variables.  That's what I intend to do.

For more on this stuff, see this blog post.

A: It depends on the JUnit version and what assert libraries you use.

- For JUnit5 and 4.13 see answer

- If you use AssertJ or google-truth, see answer

The original answer for  was:

Though answer has more options for JUnit 

Reference:

- JUnit Test-FAQ

A: The  statement removes an element:

Note that this mutates the existing dictionary, so the contents of the dictionary changes for anybody else who has a reference to the same instance. To return a new dictionary, make a copy of the dictionary:

The  constructor makes a shallow copy. To make a deep copy, see the  module.

Note that making a copy for every dict /assignment/etc. means you're going from constant time to linear time, and also using linear space. For small dicts, this is not a problem. But if you're planning to make lots of copies of large dicts, you probably want a different data structure, like a HAMT (as described in this answer).

A: The correct approach is to use :

Internet Explorer has supported this since as long as you are likely to care about and it was finally standardized in CSSOM Views. All other browsers adopted it a long time ago.

Some browsers also return height and width properties, though this is non-standard.  If you're worried about older browser compatibility, check this answer's revisions for an optimised degrading implementation.

The values returned by  are relative to the viewport.  If you need it relative to another element, simply subtract one rectangle from the other:

A: As long as you're just renaming a file, and not a folder, you can just use git mv:

(As of a change in Git 2.0.1, the  flag in the incantation above is superfluous, but it was needed in older Git versions.)

A: If you only want a single item's count, use the  method:

Important: this is very slow if you are counting multiple different items

Each  call goes over the entire list of  elements. Calling  in a loop  times means  total checks, which can be catastrophic for performance.

If you want to count multiple items, use , which only does  total checks.

A: edit: I prefer  over the other methods because I can actually remember it ;)

A: This is my personal recommendation for beginners: start by learning  and , tools which work with both Python 2 and 3 and in a variety of situations, and pick up other tools once you start needing them.

Now on to answer the question: what is the difference between these similarly named things: venv, virtualenv, etc?
PyPI packages not in the standard library:

- 

 is a very popular tool that creates isolated Python environments for Python libraries. If you're not familiar with this tool, I highly recommend learning it, as it is a very useful tool.

It works by installing a bunch of files in a directory (eg: ), and then modifying the  environment variable to prefix it with a custom  directory (eg: ). An exact copy of the  or  binary is placed in this directory, but Python is programmed to look for libraries relative to its path first, in the environment directory. It's not part of Python's standard library, but is officially blessed by the PyPA (Python Packaging Authority). Once activated, you can install packages in the virtual environment using .

- 

 is used to isolate Python versions. For example, you may want to test your code against Python 2.7, 3.6, 3.7 and 3.8, so you'll need a way to switch between them. Once activated, it prefixes the  environment variable with , where there are special files matching the Python commands (, ). These are not copies of the Python-shipped commands; they are special scripts that decide on the fly which version of Python to run based on the  environment variable, or the  file, or the  file.  also makes the process of downloading and installing multiple Python versions easier, using the command .

- 

 is a plugin for  by the same author as , to allow you to use  and  at the same time conveniently. However, if you're using Python 3.3 or later,  will try to run  if it is available, instead of . You can use  and  together without , if you don't want the convenience features.

- 

 is a set of extensions to  (see docs). It gives you commands like , , and especially  for switching between different  directories. This tool is especially useful if you want multiple  directories.

- 

 is a plugin for  by the same author as , to conveniently integrate  into .

- 

 aims to combine ,  and  into one command on the command-line. The  directory typically gets placed in , with  being a hash of the path of the project directory. This is different from , where the directory is typically in the current working directory.  is meant to be used when developing Python applications (as opposed to libraries). There are alternatives to , such as , which I won't list here since this question is only about the packages that are similarly named.

Standard library:

- 

 (not to be confused with  in the previous section) is a script shipped with Python 3.3 to 3.7. It was removed from Python 3.8 as it had problems (not to mention the confusing name). Running  has exactly the same effect as .

- 

 is a package shipped with Python 3, which you can run using  (although for some reason some distros separate it out into a separate distro package, such as  on Ubuntu/Debian). It serves the same purpose as , but only has a subset of its features (see a comparison here).  continues to be more popular than , especially since the former supports both Python 2 and 3.

A: Use  if you are using Python 2.7 or 3.x and you want the number of occurrences for each element:

A: An easy to understand and simple solution.

However, this assumes you are looking for the western idea of the age and not using East Asian reckoning.

A: Discosure: I wrote Vagrant! But because I wrote Vagrant, I spend most of my time living in the DevOps world which includes software like Docker. I work with a lot of companies using Vagrant and many use Docker, and I see how the two interplay.

Before I talk too much, a direct answer: in your specific scenario (yourself working alone, working on Linux, using Docker in production), you can stick with Docker alone and simplify things. In many other scenarios (I discuss further), it isn't so easy.

It isn't correct to directly compare Vagrant to Docker. In some scenarios, they do overlap, and in the vast majority, they don't. Actually, the more apt comparison would be Vagrant versus something like Boot2Docker (minimal OS that can run Docker). Vagrant is a level above Docker in terms of abstractions, so it isn't a fair comparison in most cases.

Vagrant launches things to run apps/services for the purpose of development. This can be on VirtualBox, VMware. It can be remote like AWS, OpenStack. Within those, if you use containers, Vagrant doesn't care, and embraces that: it can automatically install, pull down, build, and run Docker containers, for example. With Vagrant 1.6, Vagrant has docker-based development environments, and supports using Docker with the same workflow as Vagrant across Linux, Mac, and Windows. Vagrant doesn't try to replace Docker here, it embraces Docker practices.

Docker specifically runs Docker containers. If you're comparing directly to Vagrant: it is specifically a more specific (can only run Docker containers), less flexible (requires Linux or Linux host somewhere) solution. Of course if you're talking about production or CI, there is no comparison to Vagrant! Vagrant doesn't live in these environments, and so Docker should be used.

If your organization runs only Docker containers for all their projects and only has developers running on Linux, then okay, Docker could definitely work for you!

Otherwise, I don't see a benefit to attempting to use Docker alone, since you lose a lot of what Vagrant has to offer, which have real business/productivity benefits:

- 

Vagrant can launch VirtualBox, VMware, AWS, OpenStack, etc. machines. It doesn't matter what you need, Vagrant can launch it. If you are using Docker, Vagrant can install Docker on any of these so you can use them for that purpose.

- 

Vagrant is a single workflow for all your projects. Or to put another way, it is just one thing people have to learn to run a project whether it is in a Docker container or not. If, for example, in the future, a competitor arises to compete directly with Docker, Vagrant will be able to run that too.

- 

Vagrant works on Windows (back to XP), Mac (back to 10.5), and Linux (back to kernel 2.6). In all three cases, the workflow is the same. If you use Docker, Vagrant can launch a machine (VM or remote) that can run Docker on all three of these systems.

- 

Vagrant knows how to configure some advanced or non-trivial things like networking and syncing folders. For example: Vagrant knows how to attach a static IP to a machine or forward ports, and the configuration is the same no matter what system you use (VirtualBox, VMware, etc.) For synced folders, Vagrant provides multiple mechanisms to get your local files over to the remote machine (VirtualBox shared folders, NFS, rsync, Samba [plugin], etc.). If you're using Docker, even Docker with a VM without Vagrant, you would have to manually do this or they would have to reinvent Vagrant in this case.

- 

Vagrant 1.6 has first-class support for docker-based development environments. This will not launch a virtual machine on Linux, and will automatically launch a virtual machine on Mac and Windows. The end result is that working with Docker is uniform across all platforms, while Vagrant still handles the tedious details of things such as networking, synced folders, etc.

To address specific counter arguments that I've heard in favor of using Docker instead of Vagrant:

- 

"It is less moving parts" - Yes, it can be, if you use Docker exclusively for every project. Even then, it is sacrificing flexibility for Docker lock-in. If you ever decide to not use Docker for any project, past, present, or future, then you'll have more moving parts. If you had used Vagrant, you have that one moving part that supports the rest.

- 

"It is faster!" - Once you have the host that can run Linux containers, Docker is definitely faster at running a container than any virtual machine would be to launch. But launching a virtual machine (or remote machine) is a one-time cost. Over the course of the day, most Vagrant users never actually destroy their VM. It is a strange optimization for development environments. In production, where Docker really shines, I understand the need to quickly spin up/down containers.

I hope now its clear to see that it is very difficult, and I believe not correct, to compare Docker to Vagrant. For dev environments, Vagrant is more abstract, more general. Docker (and the various ways you can make it behave like Vagrant) is a specific use case of Vagrant, ignoring everything else Vagrant has to offer.

In conclusion: in highly specific use cases, Docker is certainly a possible replacement for Vagrant. In most use cases, it is not. Vagrant doesn't hinder your usage of Docker; it actually does what it can to make that experience smoother. If you find this isn't true, I'm happy to take suggestions to improve things, since a goal of Vagrant is to work equally well with any system.

Hope this clears things up!

A: There is actually a (subtle) difference between the two. Imagine you have the following code in File1.cs:

Now imagine that someone adds another file (File2.cs) to the project that looks like this:

The compiler searches  before looking at those  directives outside the namespace, so it finds  instead of . Unfortunately (or perhaps fortunately?),  has no  member, so File1 is now broken.

This changes if you put the  inside your namespace declaration, as follows:

Now the compiler searches  before searching , finds , and all is well.

Some would argue that  might be a bad name for a user-defined class, since there's already one in ; the point here is just that there is a difference, and it affects the maintainability of your code.

It's also interesting to note what happens if  is in namespace , rather than . In that case, adding  in File2 breaks File1 regardless of where the  goes. This implies that the compiler searches the innermost enclosing namespace before it looks at any  directive.

A: I think the flaw here is that HTML is a Chomsky Type 2 grammar (context free grammar) and a regular expression is a Chomsky Type 3 grammar (regular grammar). Since a Type 2 grammar is fundamentally more complex than a Type 3 grammar (see the Chomsky hierarchy), you can't possibly make this work.

But many will try, and some will even claim success, but that is until others find the fault and will totally mess you up.

A: SQL Server 2005 onwards:

Martin Smith's version is shorter:

A: There are two built-in functions that help you identify the type of an object. You can use   if you need the exact type of an object, and  to check an object’s type against something. Usually, you want to use  most of the times since it is very robust and also supports type inheritance.

To get the actual type of an object, you use the built-in  function. Passing an object as the only parameter will return the type object of that object:

This of course also works for custom types:

Note that  will only return the immediate type of the object, but won’t be able to tell you about type inheritance.

To cover that, you should use the  function. This of course also works for built-in types:

 is usually the preferred way to ensure the type of an object because it will also accept derived types. So unless you actually need the type object (for whatever reason), using  is preferred over .

The second parameter of  also accepts a tuple of types, so it’s possible to check for multiple types at once.  will then return true, if the object is of any of those types:

A: I believe that all the previously proposed solutions (apart from those that require specific implementations) result in the comments being included in the output HTML, even if they are not displayed.

If you want a comment that is strictly for yourself (readers of the converted document should not be able to see it, even with "view source") you could (ab)use the link labels (for use with reference style links) that are available in the core Markdown specification:

http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax#link

That is:

Or you could go further:

To improve platform compatibility (and to save one keystroke) it is also possible to use  (which is a legitimate hyperlink target) instead of :

For maximum portability it is important to insert a blank line before and after this type of comments, because some Markdown parsers do not work correctly when definitions brush up against regular text. The most recent research with Babelmark shows that blank lines before and after are both important. Some parsers will output the comment if there is no blank line before, and some parsers will exclude the following line if there is no blank line after.

In general, this approach should work with most Markdown parsers, since it's part of the core specification. (even if the behavior when multiple links are defined, or when a link is defined but never used, is not strictly specified).

A: This gives a log of all commits between origin/master and HEAD:

When HEAD is on the master branch, this gives a log of unpushed commits.

Similarly, to view the diff:

A: prunes tracking branches not on the remote.

 lists branches that have been merged into the current branch.

 deletes branches listed on standard input.

Be careful deleting branches listed by . The list could include  or other branches you'd prefer not to delete.

To give yourself the opportunity to edit the list before deleting branches, you could do the following in one line:

A: How to update 

Use the following command:

See the documentation for the  command:

This command will update all the packages listed to the latest version (specified by the tag config), respecting semver.

Additionally, see the documentation on Node.js and npm installation and Upgrading npm.

The following original answer is from the old FAQ that no longer exists, but it should work for Linux and Mac:

How do I update npm?

Please note that this command will remove your current version of npm. Make sure to use  if on a Mac.

You can also update all outdated local packages by doing  without any arguments, or global packages by doing .

Occasionally, the version of npm will progress such that the current version cannot be properly installed with the version that you have installed already. (Consider, if there is ever a bug in the update command.) In those cases, you can do this:

How to update Node.js

To update Node.js itself, I recommend you use  (Node Version Manager). Here is the quote from the official  documentation:

We strongly recommend using a Node version manager like  to install Node.js and . We do not recommend using a Node installer, since the Node installation process installs  in a directory with local permissions and can cause permissions errors when you run  packages globally.

Here is how you can do it using  tool:

- 

To install the latest release of Node, do this:

(NOTE: here  is an alias for the latest version)

- 

To install a specific version of node:

More details can be found on the official  GitHub page in the "Usage" section.

A: To turn off highlighting until the next search:

Or turn off highlighting completely:

Or, to toggle it:

A: Model-View-Presenter

In MVP, the Presenter contains the UI business logic for the View. All invocations from the View delegate directly to the Presenter. The Presenter is also decoupled directly from the View and talks to it through an interface. This is to allow mocking of the View in a unit test. One common attribute of MVP is that there has to be a lot of two-way dispatching. For example, when someone clicks the "Save" button, the event handler delegates to the Presenter's "OnSave" method. Once the save is completed, the Presenter will then call back the View through its interface so that the View can display that the save has completed.

MVP tends to be a very natural pattern for achieving separated presentation in WebForms. The reason is that the View is always created first by the ASP.NET runtime. You can find out more about both variants.
Two primary variations

Passive View: The View is as dumb as possible and contains almost zero logic. A Presenter is a middle man that talks to the View and the Model. The View and Model are completely shielded from one another. The Model may raise events, but the Presenter subscribes to them for updating the View. In Passive View there is no direct data binding, instead, the View exposes setter properties that the Presenter uses to set the data. All state is managed in the Presenter and not the View.

- Pro: maximum testability surface; clean separation of the View and Model

- Con: more work (for example all the setter properties) as you are doing all the data binding yourself.

Supervising Controller: The Presenter handles user gestures. The View binds to the Model directly through data binding. In this case, it's the Presenter's job to pass off the Model to the View so that it can bind to it. The Presenter will also contain logic for gestures like pressing a button, navigation, etc.

- Pro: by leveraging data binding the amount of code is reduced.

- Con: there's a less testable surface (because of data binding), and there's less encapsulation in the View since it talks directly to the Model.

Model-View-Controller

In the MVC, the Controller is responsible for determining which View to display in response to any action including when the application loads. This differs from MVP where actions route through the View to the Presenter. In MVC, every action in the View correlates with a call to a Controller along with an action. In the web, each action involves a call to a URL on the other side of which there is a Controller who responds. Once that Controller has completed its processing, it will return the correct View. The sequence continues in that manner throughout the life of the application:

One other big difference about MVC is that the View does not directly bind to the Model. The view simply renders and is completely stateless. In implementations of MVC, the View usually will not have any logic in the code behind. This is contrary to MVP where it is absolutely necessary because, if the View does not delegate to the Presenter, it will never get called.
Presentation Model

One other pattern to look at is the Presentation Model pattern. In this pattern, there is no Presenter. Instead, the View binds directly to a Presentation Model. The Presentation Model is a Model crafted specifically for the View. This means this Model can expose properties that one would never put on a domain model as it would be a violation of separation-of-concerns. In this case, the Presentation Model binds to the domain model and may subscribe to events coming from that Model. The View then subscribes to events coming from the Presentation Model and updates itself accordingly. The Presentation Model can expose commands which the view uses for invoking actions. The advantage of this approach is that you can essentially remove the code-behind altogether as the PM completely encapsulates all of the behavior for the view. This pattern is a very strong candidate for use in WPF applications and is also called Model-View-ViewModel.

There is a MSDN article about the Presentation Model and a section in the Composite Application Guidance for WPF (former Prism) about Separated Presentation Patterns

A: Use the  built-in function:

To check if a variable is of a given type, use :

Note that Python doesn't have the same types as C/C++, which appears to be your question.

A: Both are technically correct. If you look at the source code for , it simply defers to .

I use , however, as that will be null safe.

A: makes a function-name in C++ have C linkage (compiler does not mangle the name) so that client C code can link to (use) your function using a C compatible header file that contains just the declaration of your function. Your function definition is contained in a binary format (that was compiled by your C++ compiler) that the client C linker will then link to using the C name.

Since C++ has overloading of function names and C does not, the C++ compiler cannot just use the function name as a unique id to link to, so it mangles the name by adding information about the arguments.  A C compiler does not need to mangle the name since you can not overload function names in C.  When you state that a function has  linkage in C++, the C++ compiler does not add argument/parameter type information to the name used for linkage.

Just so you know, you can specify  linkage to each individual declaration/definition explicitly or use a block to group a sequence of declarations/definitions to have a certain linkage:

If you care about the technicalities, they are listed in section 7.5 of the C++03 standard, here is a brief summary (with emphasis on ):

-  is a linkage-specification

- Every compiler is required to provide "C" linkage

- A linkage specification shall occur only in namespace scope

- All function types, function names and variable names have a language linkage  See Richard's Comment: Only function names and variable names with external linkage have a language linkage

- Two function types with distinct language linkages are distinct types even if otherwise identical

- Linkage specs nest, inner one determines the final linkage

-  is ignored for class members

- At most one function with a particular name can have "C" linkage (regardless of namespace)

-  forces a function to have external linkage (cannot make it static)   See Richard's comment:     inside  is valid; an entity so declared has internal linkage, and so does not have a language linkage

- Linkage from C++ to objects defined in other languages and to objects defined in C++ from other languages is implementation-defined and language-dependent. Only where the object layout strategies of two language implementations are similar enough can such linkage be achieved

A: UPDATE

This answer is rather old, and so describes what was 'good' at the time, which was smart pointers provided by the Boost library. Since C++11, the standard library has provided sufficient smart pointers types, and so you should favour the use of ,  and . 

There was also . It was very much like a scoped pointer, except that it also had the "special" dangerous ability to be copied — which also unexpectedly transfers ownership.

It was deprecated in C++11 and removed in C++17, so you shouldn't use it.

OLD ANSWER

A smart pointer is a class that wraps a 'raw' (or 'bare') C++ pointer, to manage the lifetime of the object being pointed to. There is no single smart pointer type, but all of them try to abstract a raw pointer in a practical way.

Smart pointers should be preferred over raw pointers. If you feel you need to use pointers (first consider if you really do), you would normally want to use a smart pointer as this can alleviate many of the problems with raw pointers, mainly forgetting to delete the object and leaking memory.

With raw pointers, the programmer has to explicitly destroy the object when it is no longer useful.

A smart pointer by comparison defines a policy as to when the object is destroyed. You still have to create the object, but you no longer have to worry about destroying it.

The simplest policy in use involves the scope of the smart pointer wrapper object, such as implemented by  or . 

Note that  instances cannot be copied. This prevents the pointer from being deleted multiple times (incorrectly). You can, however, pass references to it around to other functions you call.

s are useful when you want to tie the lifetime of the object to a particular block of code, or if you embedded it as member data inside another object, the lifetime of that other object. The object exists until the containing block of code is exited, or until the containing object is itself destroyed.

A more complex smart pointer policy involves reference counting the pointer. This does allow the pointer to be copied. When the last "reference" to the object is destroyed, the object is deleted. This policy is implemented by  and .

Reference counted pointers are very useful when the lifetime of your object is much more complicated, and is not tied directly to a particular section of code or to another object.

There is one drawback to reference counted pointers — the possibility of creating a dangling reference:

Another possibility is creating circular references:

To work around this problem, both Boost and C++11 have defined a  to define a weak (uncounted) reference to a .

A: Caveat: It is not necessary to put the implementation in the header file, see the alternative solution at the end of this answer.

Anyway, the reason your code is failing is that, when instantiating a template, the compiler creates a new class with the given template argument. For example:

When reading this line, the compiler will create a new class (let's call it ), which is equivalent to the following:

Consequently, the compiler needs to have access to the implementation of the methods, to instantiate them with the template argument (in this case ). If these implementations were not in the header, they wouldn't be accessible, and therefore the compiler wouldn't be able to instantiate the template.

A common solution to this is to write the template declaration in a header file, then implement the class in an implementation file (for example .tpp), and include this implementation file at the end of the header.

Foo.h

Foo.tpp

This way, implementation is still separated from declaration, but is accessible to the compiler.
Alternative solution

Another solution is to keep the implementation separated, and explicitly instantiate all the template instances you'll need:

Foo.h

Foo.cpp

If my explanation isn't clear enough, you can have a look at the C++ Super-FAQ on this subject.

A: The  (IoC) pattern, is about providing any kind of , which "implements" and/or controls reaction, instead of acting ourselves directly (in other words, inversion and/or redirecting control to the external handler/controller).
The  (DI) pattern is a more specific version of IoC pattern, and is all about removing direct and/or hard-coded dependencies from your code, to replace them with inject-able dependencies.

Every  implementation can be considered , but one should not call it , because implementing Dependency-Injection is harder than callback (Don't lower your product's worth by using the general term "IoC" instead).

For DI example, say your application has a text-editor component, and you want to provide spell checking. Your standard code would look something like this:

What we've done here creates a dependency between the  and the .
In an IoC scenario we would instead do something like this:

In the first code example we are instantiating  (), which means the  class directly depends on the  class.

In the second code example we are creating an abstraction by having the  dependency class in 's constructor signature (not initializing dependency in class). This allows us to call the dependency then pass it to the TextEditor class like so:

Now the client creating the  class has control over which  implementation to use because we're injecting the dependency into the  signature.

For example, we could inject some improved implementation instead of the default implementation, or, depending on user's needs or settings we could even inject a Spanish spellchecker or German spellchecker.

Note that just like IoC being the base of many other patterns, above sample is only one of many Dependency-Injection kinds, for example:

- Constructor Injection.

Where an instance of  would be passed to constructor, either automatically or similar to above manually.

- Setter Injection.

Where an instance of  would be passed through setter-method or  property.

- Service-lookup and/or Service-locator

Where  would ask a known provider for a globally-used-instance (service) of  type (and that maybe without storing said instance, and instead, asking the provider again and again).

A: Native XML Extensions

I prefer using one of the native XML extensions since they come bundled with PHP, are usually faster than all the 3rd party libs and give me all the control I need over the markup.
DOM

The DOM extension allows you to operate on XML documents through the DOM API with PHP 5. It is an implementation of the W3C's Document Object Model Core Level 3, a platform- and language-neutral interface that allows programs and scripts to dynamically access and update the content, structure and style of documents.

DOM is capable of parsing and modifying real world (broken) HTML and it can do XPath queries. It is based on libxml.

It takes some time to get productive with DOM, but that time is well worth it IMO. Since DOM is a language-agnostic interface, you'll find implementations in many languages, so if you need to change your programming language, chances are you will already know how to use that language's DOM API then.

How to use the DOM extension has been covered extensively on StackOverflow, so if you choose to use it, you can be sure most of the issues you run into can be solved by searching/browsing Stack Overflow.

A basic usage example and a general conceptual overview are available in other answers.
XMLReader

The XMLReader extension is an XML pull parser. The reader acts as a cursor going forward on the document stream and stopping at each node on the way.

XMLReader, like DOM, is based on libxml. I am not aware of how to trigger the HTML Parser Module, so chances are using XMLReader for parsing broken HTML might be less robust than using DOM where you can explicitly tell it to use libxml's HTML Parser Module.

A basic usage example is available in another answer.
XML Parser

This extension lets you create XML parsers and then define handlers for different XML events. Each XML parser also has a few parameters you can adjust.

The XML Parser library is also based on libxml, and implements a SAX style XML push parser. It may be a better choice for memory management than DOM or SimpleXML, but will be more difficult to work with than the pull parser implemented by XMLReader.
SimpleXml

The SimpleXML extension provides a very simple and easily usable toolset to convert XML to an object that can be processed with normal property selectors and array iterators.

SimpleXML is an option when you know the HTML is valid XHTML. If you need to parse broken HTML, don't even consider SimpleXml because it will choke.

A basic usage example is available, and there are lots of additional examples in the PHP Manual.

3rd Party Libraries (libxml based)

If you prefer to use a 3rd-party lib, I'd suggest using a lib that actually uses DOM/libxml underneath instead of string parsing.
FluentDom

FluentDOM provides a jQuery-like fluent XML interface for the DOMDocument in PHP. Selectors are written in XPath or CSS (using a CSS to XPath converter). Current versions extend the DOM implementing standard interfaces and add features from the DOM Living Standard. FluentDOM can load formats like JSON, CSV, JsonML, RabbitFish and others. Can be installed via Composer.

HtmlPageDom

 is a PHP library for easy manipulation of HTML
documents using DOM. It requires DomCrawler from Symfony2
components for traversing
the DOM tree and extends it by adding methods for manipulating the
DOM tree of HTML documents.

phpQuery

phpQuery is a server-side, chainable, CSS3 selector driven Document Object Model (DOM) API based on jQuery JavaScript Library.
The library is written in PHP5 and provides additional Command Line Interface (CLI).

This is described as "abandonware and buggy: use at your own risk" but does appear to be minimally maintained.
laminas-dom

The Laminas\Dom component (formerly Zend_DOM) provides tools for working with DOM documents and structures. Currently, we offer , which provides a unified interface for querying DOM documents utilizing both XPath and CSS selectors.

This package is considered feature-complete, and is now in security-only maintenance mode.

fDOMDocument

fDOMDocument extends the standard DOM to use exceptions at all occasions of errors instead of PHP warnings or notices. They also add various custom methods and shortcuts for convenience and to simplify the usage of DOM.

sabre/xml

sabre/xml is a library that wraps and extends the XMLReader and XMLWriter classes to create a simple "xml to object/array" mapping system and design pattern. Writing and reading XML is single-pass and can therefore be fast and require low memory on large xml files.

FluidXML

FluidXML is a PHP library for manipulating XML with a concise and fluent API.
It leverages XPath and the fluent programming pattern to be fun and effective.

3rd-Party (not libxml-based)

The benefit of building upon DOM/libxml is that you get good performance out of the box because you are based on a native extension. However, not all 3rd-party libs go down this route. Some of them listed below
PHP Simple HTML DOM Parser

- An HTML DOM parser written in PHP5+ lets you manipulate HTML in a very easy way!

- Require PHP 5+.

- Supports invalid HTML.

- Find tags on an HTML page with selectors just like jQuery.

- Extract contents from HTML in a single line.

I generally do not recommend this parser. The codebase is horrible and the parser itself is rather slow and memory hungry. Not all jQuery Selectors (such as child selectors) are possible. Any of the libxml based libraries should outperform this easily.
PHP Html Parser

PHPHtmlParser is a simple, flexible, html parser which allows you to select tags using any css selector, like jQuery. The goal is to assiste in the development of tools which require a quick, easy way to scrape html, whether it's valid or not! This project was original supported by sunra/php-simple-html-dom-parser but the support seems to have stopped so this project is my adaptation of his previous work.

Again, I would not recommend this parser. It is rather slow with high CPU usage. There is also no function to clear memory of created DOM objects. These problems scale particularly with nested loops. The documentation itself is inaccurate and misspelled, with no responses to fixes since 14 Apr 16.

HTML 5

You can use the above for parsing HTML5, but there can be quirks due to the markup HTML5 allows. So for HTML5 you may want to consider using a dedicated parser. Note that these are written in PHP, so suffer from slower performance and increased memory usage compared to a compiled extension in a lower-level language.
HTML5DomDocument

HTML5DOMDocument extends the native DOMDocument library. It fixes some bugs and adds some new functionality.

- Preserves html entities (DOMDocument does not)

- Preserves void tags (DOMDocument does not)

- Allows inserting HTML code that moves the correct parts to their proper places (head elements are inserted in the head, body elements in the body)

- Allows querying the DOM with CSS selectors (currently available: , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and .)

- Adds support for element->classList.

- Adds support for element->innerHTML.

- Adds support for element->outerHTML.

HTML5

HTML5 is a standards-compliant HTML5 parser and writer written entirely in PHP. It is stable and used in many production websites, and has well over five million downloads.

HTML5 provides the following features.

- An HTML5 serializer

- Support for PHP namespaces

- Composer support

- Event-based (SAX-like) parser

- A DOM tree builder

- Interoperability with QueryPath

- Runs on PHP 5.3.0 or newer

Regular Expressions

Last and least recommended, you can extract data from HTML with regular expressions. In general using Regular Expressions on HTML is discouraged.

Most of the snippets you will find on the web to match markup are brittle. In most cases they are only working for a very particular piece of HTML. Tiny markup changes, like adding whitespace somewhere, or adding, or changing attributes in a tag, can make the RegEx fails when it's not properly written. You should know what you are doing before using RegEx on HTML.

HTML parsers already know the syntactical rules of HTML. Regular expressions have to be taught for each new RegEx you write. RegEx are fine in some cases, but it really depends on your use-case.

You can write more reliable parsers, but writing a complete and reliable custom parser with regular expressions is a waste of time when the aforementioned libraries already exist and do a much better job on this.

Also see Parsing Html The Cthulhu Way

Books

If you want to spend some money, have a look at

- PHP Architect's Guide to Webscraping with PHP

I am not affiliated with PHP Architect or the authors.

A: tl;dr: Because of different default settings in C++ requiring more system calls.

By default,  is synchronized with stdio, which causes it to avoid any input buffering.  If you add this to the top of your main, you should see much better performance:

Normally, when an input stream is buffered, instead of reading one character at a time, the stream will be read in larger chunks.  This reduces the number of system calls, which are typically relatively expensive.  However, since the  based  and  often have separate implementations and therefore separate buffers, this could lead to a problem if both were used together.  For example:

If more input was read by  than it actually needed, then the second integer value wouldn't be available for the  function, which has its own independent buffer.  This would lead to unexpected results.

To avoid this, by default, streams are synchronized with .  One common way to achieve this is to have  read each character one at a time as needed using  functions.  Unfortunately, this introduces a lot of overhead.  For small amounts of input, this isn't a big problem, but when you are reading millions of lines, the performance penalty is significant.

Fortunately, the library designers decided that you should also be able to disable this feature to get improved performance if you knew what you were doing, so they provided the  method. From this link (emphasis added):

If the synchronization is turned off, the C++ standard streams are allowed to buffer their I/O independently, which may be considerably faster in some cases.

A: Contrary to the answers here, you DON'T need to worry about encoding if the bytes don't need to be interpreted!

Like you mentioned, your goal is, simply, to "get what bytes the string has been stored in".

(And, of course, to be able to re-construct the string from the bytes.)

For those goals, I honestly do not understand why people keep telling you that you need the encodings. You certainly do NOT need to worry about encodings for this.

Just do this instead:

As long as your program (or other programs) don't try to interpret the bytes somehow, which you obviously didn't mention you intend to do, then there is nothing wrong with this approach! Worrying about encodings just makes your life more complicated for no real reason.

Additional benefit to this approach: It doesn't matter if the string contains invalid characters, because you can still get the data and reconstruct the original string anyway!

It will be encoded and decoded just the same, because you are just looking at the bytes.

If you used a specific encoding, though, it would've given you trouble with encoding/decoding invalid characters.

A: Short Answer

  

Use  to refer to the current
  object. Use  to refer to the
  current class. In other words, use
   for non-static members,
  use  for static members.

Full Answer

Here is an example of correct usage of  and  for non-static and static member variables:

Here is an example of incorrect usage of  and  for non-static and static member variables:

Here is an example of polymorphism with  for member functions:

Here is an example of suppressing polymorphic behaviour by using  for member functions:

  

The idea is that  calls the  member function of whatever  is the exact type of the current object. If the object is of , it thus calls . If the object is of , it calls . But with self::foo(),  is always called.

From http://www.phpbuilder.com/board/showthread.php?t=10354489:

By http://board.phpbuilder.com/member.php?145249-laserlight

A: For HTML 4, the answer is technically:

ID and NAME tokens must begin with a letter ([A-Za-z]) and may be followed by any number of letters, digits ([0-9]), hyphens ("-"), underscores ("_"), colons (":"), and periods (".").

HTML 5 is even more permissive, saying only that an id must contain at least one character and may not contain any space characters.

The id attribute is case sensitive in XHTML.

As a purely practical matter, you may want to avoid certain characters. Periods, colons and '#' have special meaning in CSS selectors, so you will have to escape those characters using a backslash in CSS or a double backslash in a selector string passed to jQuery. Think about how often you will have to escape a character in your stylesheets or code before you go crazy with periods and colons in ids.

For example, the HTML declaration  is valid. You can select that element in CSS as  and in jQuery like so:  But if you forget the backslash, , you will have a perfectly valid selector looking for an element with id  and also having class . This is a bug that is easy to overlook. You might be happier in the long run choosing the id  (a hyphen rather than a period), instead.

You can simplify your development tasks by strictly sticking to a naming convention. For example, if you limit yourself entirely to lower-case characters and always separate words with either hyphens or underscores (but not both, pick one and never use the other), then you have an easy-to-remember pattern. You will never wonder "was it  or ?" because you will always know that you should type . Prefer camel case? Then limit yourself to that, no hyphens or underscores, and always, consistently use either upper-case or lower-case for the first character, don't mix them.

A now very obscure problem was that at least one browser, Netscape 6, incorrectly treated id attribute values as case-sensitive. That meant that if you had typed  in your HTML (lower-case 'f') and  in your CSS (upper-case 'F'), that buggy browser would have failed to set the element's color to red. At the time of this edit, April 2015, I hope you aren't being asked to support Netscape 6. Consider this a historical footnote.

A: Simply  is sufficient.

The other forms are there for compatibility with XHTML; to make it possible to write the same code as XHTML, and have it also work as HTML. Some systems that generate HTML may be based on XML generators, and thus do not have the ability to output just a bare  tag; if you're using such a system, it's fine to use , it's just not necessary if you don't need to do it.

XHTML is not commonly used. In such an event, the content would need to be served as  for it to be interpreted as XHTML, and that will not work in old versions of IE - it will also mean that any small validation error made would prevent the page from being displayed. So, most of what looks like XHTML on the web is actually being served, and interpreted, as HTML. See Serving XHTML as text/html Considered Harmful for some more information.

A: Here's how I would do it:

Update [2018-05-31]: If you are not concerned with Date objects from other JS contexts (external windows, frames, or iframes), this simpler form may be preferred:

Update [2021-02-01]: Please note that there is a fundamental difference between "invalid dates" () and "invalid date objects" (). This answer does not deal with validating date input, only if a Date instance is valid.

A: Use the  primary. For example, if you want to exclude :

Note that the final  is needed to avoid printing out . See cycollins's answer for the explanation why.

To exclude multiple directories, OR them between parentheses.

And, to exclude directories with a specific name at any level, use the  primary instead of .

A: Yes: implements  is the preferred way to do it, IMO. You're not really specialising the thread's behaviour.  You're just giving it something to run. That means composition is the philosophically "purer" way to go.

In practical terms, it means you can implement  and extend from another class as well... and you can also implement  via a lambda expression as of Java 8.

A: supports iteration over three different kinds of values:

- Arrays

- Normal objects

-  objects

In the following, I will try to explain precisely how iteration works in different cases. By far the simplest case is  objects, as for these  is essentially only syntax sugar for code along these lines:

For internal classes, actual method calls are avoided by using an internal API that essentially just mirrors the  interface on the C level.

Iteration of arrays and plain objects is significantly more complicated. First of all, it should be noted that in PHP "arrays" are really ordered dictionaries and they will be traversed according to this order (which matches the insertion order as long as you didn't use something like ). This is opposed to iterating by the natural order of the keys (how lists in other languages often work) or having no defined order at all (how dictionaries in other languages often work).

The same also applies to objects, as the object properties can be seen as another (ordered) dictionary mapping property names to their values, plus some visibility handling. In the majority of cases, the object properties are not actually stored in this rather inefficient way. However, if you start iterating over an object, the packed representation that is normally used will be converted to a real dictionary. At that point, iteration of plain objects becomes very similar to iteration of arrays (which is why I'm not discussing plain-object iteration much in here).

So far, so good. Iterating over a dictionary can't be too hard, right? The problems begin when you realize that an array/object can change during iteration. There are multiple ways this can happen:

- If you iterate by reference using  then  is turned into a reference and you can change it during iteration.

- In PHP 5 the same applies even if you iterate by value, but the array was a reference beforehand: 

- Objects have by-handle passing semantics, which for most practical purposes means that they behave like references. So objects can always be changed during iteration.

The problem with allowing modifications during iteration is the case where the element you are currently on is removed. Say you use a pointer to keep track of which array element you are currently at. If this element is now freed, you are left with a dangling pointer (usually resulting in a segfault).

There are different ways of solving this issue. PHP 5 and PHP 7 differ significantly in this regard and I'll describe both behaviors in the following. The summary is that PHP 5's approach was rather dumb and lead to all kinds of weird edge-case issues, while PHP 7's more involved approach results in more predictable and consistent behavior.

As a last preliminary, it should be noted that PHP uses reference counting and copy-on-write to manage memory. This means that if you "copy" a value, you actually just reuse the old value and increment its reference count (refcount). Only once you perform some kind of modification a real copy (called a "duplication") will be done. See You're being lied to for a more extensive introduction on this topic.

PHP 5

Internal array pointer and HashPointer

Arrays in PHP 5 have one dedicated "internal array pointer" (IAP), which properly supports modifications: Whenever an element is removed, there will be a check whether the IAP points to this element. If it does, it is advanced to the next element instead.

While  does make use of the IAP, there is an additional complication: There is only one IAP, but one array can be part of multiple  loops:

To support two simultaneous loops with only one internal array pointer,  performs the following shenanigans: Before the loop body is executed,  will back up a pointer to the current element and its hash into a per-foreach . After the loop body runs, the IAP will be set back to this element if it still exists. If however the element has been removed, we'll just use wherever the IAP is currently at. This scheme mostly-kinda-sort of works, but there's a lot of weird behavior you can get out of it, some of which I'll demonstrate below.

Array duplication

The IAP is a visible feature of an array (exposed through the  family of functions), as such changes to the IAP count as modifications under copy-on-write semantics. This, unfortunately, means that  is in many cases forced to duplicate the array it is iterating over. The precise conditions are:

- The array is not a reference (is_ref=0). If it's a reference, then changes to it are supposed to propagate, so it should not be duplicated.

- The array has refcount>1. If  is 1, then the array is not shared and we're free to modify it directly.

If the array is not duplicated (is_ref=0, refcount=1), then only its  will be incremented (*). Additionally, if  by reference is used, then the (potentially duplicated) array will be turned into a reference.

Consider this code as an example where duplication occurs:

Here,  will be duplicated to prevent IAP changes on  from leaking to . In terms of the conditions above, the array is not a reference (is_ref=0) and is used in two places (refcount=2). This requirement is unfortunate and an artifact of the suboptimal implementation (there is no concern of modification during iteration here, so we don't really need to use the IAP in the first place).

(*) Incrementing the  here sounds innocuous, but violates copy-on-write (COW) semantics: This means that we are going to modify the IAP of a refcount=2 array, while COW dictates that modifications can only be performed on refcount=1 values. This violation results in user-visible behavior change (while a COW is normally transparent) because the IAP change on the iterated array will be observable -- but only until the first non-IAP modification on the array. Instead, the three "valid" options would have been a) to always duplicate, b) do not increment the  and thus allowing the iterated array to be arbitrarily modified in the loop or c) don't use the IAP at all (the PHP 7 solution).

Position advancement order

There is one last implementation detail that you have to be aware of to properly understand the code samples below. The "normal" way of looping through some data structure would look something like this in pseudocode:

However , being a rather special snowflake, chooses to do things slightly differently:

Namely, the array pointer is already moved forward before the loop body runs. This means that while the loop body is working on element , the IAP is already at element . This is the reason why code samples showing modification during iteration will always  the next element, rather than the current one.

Examples: Your test cases

The three aspects described above should provide you with a mostly complete impression of the idiosyncrasies of the  implementation and we can move on to discuss some examples. 

The behavior of your test cases is simple to explain at this point:

- 

In test cases 1 and 2  starts off with refcount=1, so it will not be duplicated by : Only the  is incremented. When the loop body subsequently modifies the array (which has refcount=2 at that point), the duplication will occur at that point. Foreach will continue working on an unmodified copy of .

- 

In test case 3, once again the array is not duplicated, thus  will be modifying the IAP of the  variable. At the end of the iteration, the IAP is NULL (meaning iteration has done), which  indicates by returning .

- 

In test cases 4 and 5 both  and  are by-reference functions. The  has a  when it is passed to them, so it has to be duplicated. As such  will be working on a separate array again.

Examples: Effects of  in foreach

A good way to show the various duplication behaviors is to observe the behavior of the   function inside a  loop. Consider this example:

Here you should know that  is a by-ref function (actually: prefer-ref), even though it does not modify the array. It has to be in order to play nice with all the other functions like  which are all by-ref. By-reference passing implies that the array has to be separated and thus  and the  will be different. The reason you get  instead of  is also mentioned above:  advances the array pointer before running the user code, not after. So even though the code is at the first element,  already advanced the pointer to the second.

Now lets try a small modification:

Here we have the is_ref=1 case, so the array is not copied (just like above). But now that it is a reference, the array no longer has to be duplicated when passing to the by-ref  function. Thus  and  work on the same array. You still see the off-by-one behavior though, due to the way  advances the pointer.

You get the same behavior when doing by-ref iteration:

Here the important part is that foreach will make  an is_ref=1 when it is iterated by reference, so basically you have the same situation as above.

Another small variation, this time we'll assign the array to another variable:

Here the refcount of the  is 2 when the loop is started, so for once we actually have to do the duplication upfront. Thus  and the array used by foreach will be completely separate from the outset. That's why you get the position of the IAP wherever it was before the loop (in this case it was at the first position).

Examples: Modification during iteration

Trying to account for modifications during iteration is where all our foreach troubles originated, so it serves to consider some examples for this case.

Consider these nested loops over the same array (where by-ref iteration is used to make sure it really is the same one):

The expected part here is that  is missing from the output because element  was removed. What's probably unexpected is that the outer loop stops after the first element. Why is that?

The reason behind this is the nested-loop hack described above: Before the loop body runs, the current IAP position and hash is backed up into a . After the loop body it will be restored, but only if the element still exists, otherwise the current IAP position (whatever it may be) is used instead. In the example above this is exactly the case: The current element of the outer loop has been removed, so it will use the IAP, which has already been marked as finished by the inner loop!

Another consequence of the  backup+restore mechanism is that changes to the IAP through  etc. usually do not impact . For example, the following code executes as if the  were not present at all:

The reason is that, while  temporarily modifies the IAP, it will be restored to the current foreach element after the loop body. To force  to make an effect on the loop, you have to additionally remove the current element, so that the backup/restore mechanism fails:

But, those examples are still sane. The real fun starts if you remember that the  restore uses a pointer to the element and its hash to determine whether it still exists. But: Hashes have collisions, and pointers can be reused! This means that, with a careful choice of array keys, we can make  believe that an element that has been removed still exists, so it will jump directly to it. An example:

Here we should normally expect the output  according to the previous rules. How what happens is that  has the same hash as the removed element , and the allocator happens to reuse the same memory location to store the element. So foreach ends up directly jumping to the newly inserted element, thus short-cutting the loop.

Substituting the iterated entity during the loop

One last odd case that I'd like to mention, it is that PHP allows you to substitute the iterated entity during the loop. So you can start iterating on one array and then replace it with another array halfway through. Or start iterating on an array and then replace it with an object:

As you can see in this case PHP will just start iterating the other entity from the start once the substitution has happened.

PHP 7

Hashtable iterators

If you still remember, the main problem with array iteration was how to handle removal of elements mid-iteration. PHP 5 used a single internal array pointer (IAP) for this purpose, which was somewhat suboptimal, as one array pointer had to be stretched to support multiple simultaneous foreach loops and interaction with  etc. on top of that.

PHP 7 uses a different approach, namely, it supports creating an arbitrary amount of external, safe hashtable iterators. These iterators have to be registered in the array, from which point on they have the same semantics as the IAP: If an array element is removed, all hashtable iterators pointing to that element will be advanced to the next element.

This means that  will no longer use the IAP at all. The  loop will be absolutely no effect on the results of  etc. and its own behavior will never be influenced by functions like   etc.

Array duplication

Another important change between PHP 5 and PHP 7 relates to array duplication. Now that the IAP is no longer used, by-value array iteration will only do a  increment (instead of duplication the array) in all cases. If the array is modified during the  loop, at that point a duplication will occur (according to copy-on-write) and  will keep working on the old array.

In most cases, this change is transparent and has no other effect than better performance. However, there is one occasion where it results in different behavior, namely the case where the array was a reference beforehand:

Previously by-value iteration of reference-arrays was special cases. In this case, no duplication occurred, so all modifications of the array during iteration would be reflected by the loop. In PHP 7 this special case is gone: A by-value iteration of an array will always keep working on the original elements, disregarding any modifications during the loop.

This, of course, does not apply to by-reference iteration. If you iterate by-reference all modifications will be reflected by the loop. Interestingly, the same is true for by-value iteration of plain objects:

This reflects the by-handle semantics of objects (i.e. they behave reference-like even in by-value contexts).

Examples

Let's consider a few examples, starting with your test cases:

- 

Test cases 1 and 2 retain the same output: By-value array iteration always keep working on the original elements. (In this case, even  and duplication behavior is exactly the same between PHP 5 and PHP 7).

- 

Test case 3 changes:  no longer uses the IAP, so  is not affected by the loop. It will have the same output before and after.

- 

Test cases 4 and 5 stay the same:  and  will duplicate the array before changing the IAP, while  still uses the original array. (Not that the IAP change would have mattered, even if the array was shared.)

The second set of examples was related to the behavior of  under different  configurations. This no longer makes sense, as  is completely unaffected by the loop, so its return value always stays the same.

However, we get some interesting changes when considering modifications during iteration. I hope you will find the new behavior saner. The first example:

As you can see, the outer loop no longer aborts after the first iteration. The reason is that both loops now have entirely separate hashtable iterators, and there is no longer any cross-contamination of both loops through a shared IAP.

Another weird edge case that is fixed now, is the odd effect you get when you remove and add elements that happen to have the same hash:

Previously the HashPointer restore mechanism jumped right to the new element because it "looked" like it's the same as the removed element (due to colliding hash and pointer). As we no longer rely on the element hash for anything, this is no longer an issue.

A: Git has a configuration setting that tells it whether to expect a case-sensitive or insensitive file system: . To tell Git to be case-sensitive, simply set this setting to . (Be careful if you have already pushed the files, then you should first move them given the other answers).

Note that setting this option to false on a case-insensitive file system is generally a bad idea. Doing so will lead to weird errors. For example, renaming a file in a way that only changes letter case will cause git to report spurious conflicts or create duplicate files(from Mark Amery's comment).
Documentation

From the  documentation:

If true, this option enables various workarounds to enable git to work better on filesystems that are not case sensitive, like FAT. For example, if a directory listing finds  when git expects , git will assume it is really the same file, and continue to remember it as .

The default is false, except git-clone(1) or git-init(1) will probe and set  true if appropriate when the repository is created.

Case-insensitive file-systems

The two most popular operating systems that have case-insensitive file systems that I know of are

- Windows

- OS X

A: Putting it simply:

Context is a provider of access to a set of resources available to an application, allowing its objects to understand the application's environment and device settings. It lets newly-created objects understand what has been going on. Typically you call it to get information regarding another part of your program (activity and package/application).

You can get the context by invoking , ,  or  (when in a class that extends from , such as the Application, Activity, Service and IntentService classes).

Typical uses of context:

- 

Creating new objects:
Creating new views, adapters, listeners:

- 

Accessing standard common resources:
Services like LAYOUT_INFLATER_SERVICE, SharedPreferences:

- 

Accessing components implicitly:
Regarding content providers, broadcasts, intent

A: Let's say you have a collection of  objects (database rows), and each  has a collection of  objects (also rows).  In other words,  →  is a 1-to-many relationship.

Now, let's say you need to iterate through all the cars, and for each one, print out a list of the wheels. The naive O/R implementation would do the following:

And then for each :

In other words, you have one select for the Cars, and then N additional selects, where N is the total number of cars.

Alternatively, one could get all wheels and perform the lookups in memory:

This reduces the number of round-trips to the database from N+1 to 2.
Most ORM tools give you several ways to prevent N+1 selects.

Reference: Java Persistence with Hibernate, chapter 13.

A: If you are on SQL Server 2017 or Azure, see Mathieu Renda answer.

I had a similar issue when I was trying to join two tables with one-to-many relationships. In SQL 2005 I found that  method can handle the concatenation of the rows very easily.

If there is a table called 

Result I expected was:

I used the following :

You can do the same thing in a more compact way if you can concat the commas at the beginning and use  to skip the first one so you don't need to do a sub-query:

A: I use standard HTML tags, like

Note the triple dash. The advantage is that it works with pandoc when generating TeX or HTML output. More information is available on the pandoc-discuss group.

Q: What are drawbacks or disadvantages of the singleton pattern?

The singleton pattern is a fully paid up member of the GoF's patterns book, but it lately seems rather orphaned by the developer world. I still use quite a lot of singletons, especially for factory classes, and while you have to be a bit careful about multithreading issues (like any class actually), I fail to see why they are so awful.

Stack Overflow especially seems to assume that everyone agrees that Singletons are evil. Why?

Q: What's the difference between a method and a function?

Can someone provide a simple explanation of methods vs. functions in OOP context?

Q: How does Git handle symbolic links?

If I have a file or directory that is a symbolic link and I commit it to a Git repository, what happens to it?

I would assume that it leaves it as a symbolic link until the file is deleted and then if you pull the file back from an old version it just creates a normal file.

What does it do when I delete the file it references? Does it just commit the dangling link?

Q: Get the last item in an array

Here is my JavaScript code so far:

Currently it takes the second to last item in the array from the URL. However, I want to do a check for the last item in the array to be  and if so, grab the third to last item instead.

Q: How does JavaScript .prototype work?

I'm not that into dynamic programming languages but I've written my fair share of JavaScript code. I never really got my head around this prototype-based programming, does any one know how this works?

I remember a lot discussion I had with people a while back (I'm not exactly sure what I'm doing) but as I understand it, there's no concept of a class. It's just an object, and instances of those objects are clones of the original, right?

But what is the exact purpose of this ".prototype" property in JavaScript? How does it relate to instantiating objects?
Update: correct way

Also these slides really helped a lot.

Q: How do I check if a variable is an array in JavaScript?

How do I check if a variable is an array in JavaScript?

Q: Can't bind to 'ngModel' since it isn't a known property of 'input'

I have this simple input in my component which uses  :

And I get the following error when I launch my app, even if the component is not displayed.

zone.js:461 Unhandled Promise rejection: Template parse errors:
Can't bind to 'ngModel' since it isn't a known property of 'input'.

Here is the component.ts:

Q: How do I profile C++ code running on Linux?

How do I find areas of my code that run slowly in a C++ application running on Linux?

Q: How to replace master branch in Git, entirely, from another branch?

I have two branches in my Git repository:

- 

-  (created originally from )

I created  with the intention of quickly merging it back into . However, that was three months ago and the code in this branch is 13 versions ahead of .

It has effectively become our working master branch as all the code in  is more or less obsolete now.

Very bad practice I know, lesson learned.

Do you know how I can replace all of the contents of the  branch with those in ?

I could just delete everything in  and merge, but this does not feel like best practice.

Q: How do I change permissions for a folder and its subfolders/files?

How do I change the permissions of a folder and all its subfolders and files?

This only applies to the  folder, not its contents:

How do I set  for all of the   folder's current contents, as well as automatically in the future for new folders/files created under it?

Q: Preview an image before it is uploaded

I want to be able to preview a file (image) before it is uploaded.  The preview action should be executed all in the browser without using Ajax to upload the image.

How can I do this?

Q: Why is it string.join(list) instead of list.join(string)?

This has always confused me. It seems like this would be nicer:

Than this:

Is there a specific reason it is like this?

Q: How do I format a Microsoft JSON date?

I'm taking my first crack at Ajax with jQuery. I'm getting my data onto my page, but I'm having some trouble with the JSON data that is returned for Date data types. Basically, I'm getting a string back that looks like this:

From someone totally new to JSON - How do I format this to a short date format? Should this be handled somewhere in the jQuery code? I've tried the  plugin using  without any success.

FYI: Here's the solution I came up with using a combination of the answers here:

This solution got my object from the callback method and displayed the dates on the page properly using the date format library.

Q: How to create a copy of a JavaScript array instead of a reference?

When copying an array in JavaScript to another array:

I realized that  refers to the same array as , rather than a new, independent array. How can I copy the array to get two independent arrays?

Q: How do I clone a subdirectory only of a Git repository?

I have my Git repository which, at the root, has two subdirectories:

When this was in SVN,  was checked out in one place, while  was checked out elsewhere, like so:

Is there a way to do this with Git?

Q: Search an array of JavaScript objects for an object with a matching value

I've got an array:

I'm unable to change the structure of the array. I'm being passed an id of , and I want to get  for that object in the array. 

How do I do this in JavaScript or using jQuery?

Q: Download a specific tag with Git

I'm trying to figure out how I can download a particular tag of a Git repository - it's one version behind the current version.

I saw there was a tag for the previous version on the git web page, with object name of something long hex number. 

But the version name is "" according the site.

I tried a command like this (with names changed):

And I did get something - a directory, a bunch of subdirectories, etc.  

If it's the whole repository, how do I get at the version I'm seeking? If not, how do I download that particular version?

Q: How can I display a JavaScript object?

How do I display the content of a JavaScript object in a string format like when we  a variable?

The same formatted way I want to display an object.

Q: How to get just one file from another branch

I have a  branch with a file called . I made changes to this file on an  branch.

I want to apply only the changes made to  from  onto the  branch.

Q: What is move semantics?

I've just finished listening to the Software Engineering radio podcast interview with Scott Meyers regarding C++11. Most of the new features made sense to me, with the exception of one. I still don't get move semantics... What is it exactly?

Q: How do I remedy "The breakpoint will not currently be hit. No symbols have been loaded for this document." warning?

A C# desktop application (on the Visual Studio Express edition) worked, but then it didn't work 5 seconds later.

I tried the following:

- Ensure debug configuration, debug flag, and full debug information are set on all assemblies.

- Delete all bin and obj folders and all DLL files related to the project from my entire machine.

- Recreate projects causing the problem from scratch.

- Reboot.

I have two Windows Forms projects in the solution. One of them loads the debug information, one doesn't. They both refer to the assembly I'm trying to get debug information on in exactly the same way in the project file. Any ideas?

I want to add here, mostly for myself when I come back to review this question, that symbols are not loaded until the assembly is loaded, and the assembly is not loaded until it is needed. If the breakpoint is in a library that is only used in one function in your main assembly, the symbols will not be loaded (and it will show the breakpoint as not being hit) until that function is called.

Q: How to use java.net.URLConnection to fire and handle HTTP requests

Use of  is asked about pretty often here, and the Oracle tutorial is too concise about it.

That tutorial basically only shows how to fire a GET request and read the response. It doesn't explain anywhere how to use it to, among others, perform a POST request, set request headers, read response headers, deal with cookies, submit a HTML form, upload a file, etc.

So, how can I use  to fire and handle "advanced" HTTP requests?

Q: How to auto-resize an image while maintaining aspect ratio

How do you auto-resize a large image so that it will fit into a smaller width  container whilst maintaining its : ratio?

Example: stackoverflow.com - when an image is inserted onto the editor panel and the image is too large to fit onto the page, the image is automatically resized.

Q: How do I append to a file?

How do I append to a file instead of overwriting it?

Q: Why should text files end with a newline?

I assume everyone here is familiar with the adage that all text files should end with a newline. I've known of this "rule" for years but I've always wondered — why?

Q: Resolve Git merge conflicts in favor of their changes during a pull

How do I resolve a git merge conflict in favor of pulled changes?

I want to remove all conflicting changes from a working tree without having to go through all of the conflicts with , while keeping all conflict-free changes. Preferably, I want to do this while pulling, not afterwards.

Q: Is there a way to cache https credentials for pushing commits?

I recently switched to synchronizing my repositories to https:// on GitHub (due to firewall issues), and it asks for a password every time.

Is there a way to cache the credentials, instead of authenticating every time that ?

Q: How do I format XML in Notepad++?

I have Notepad++ and I got some XML code which is very long. When I pasted it in Notepad++ there was a long line of code (difficult to read and work with).

I want to know if there is a simple way to make the text readable (by readable I mean properly tabbed code).

I can do it manually, but I want a permanent solution to this as I have faced this several times. I am sure there is a way to do this as I have done it once before a couple of years back, maybe with Visual Studio or some other editor, I don't remember.

But can Notepad++ do it?

Q: How can I get a list of Git branches, ordered by most recent commit?

I want to get a list of all the branches in a Git repository with the "freshest" branches at the top, where the "freshest" branch is the one that's been committed to most recently (and is, therefore, more likely to be one I want to pay attention to).

Is there a way I can use Git to either (a) sort the list of branches by latest commit, or (b) get a list of branches together with each one's last-commit date, in some kind of machine-readable format?

Worst case, I could always run  to get a list of all the branches, parse its output, and then  for each one, to get each branch's commit date. But this will run on a Windows box, where spinning up a new process is relatively expensive, so launching the Git executable once per branch could get slow if there are a lot of branches. Is there a way to do all this with a single command?

Q: How to do case insensitive search in Vim

I'd like to search for an upper case word, for example  in a file. I tried performing a search like:

but it doesn't work.  I know that in Perl, if I give the  flag into a regex it will turn the regex into a case-insensitive regex. It seems that Vim  has its own way to indicate a case-insensitive regex.

Q: Writing to files in Node.js

I've been trying to find a way to write to a file when using Node.js, but with no success. How can I do that?

Q: Make the current Git branch a master branch

I have a repository in Git. I made a branch, then did some changes both to the master and to the branch.

Then, tens of commits later, I realized the branch is in much better state than the master, so I want the branch to "become" the master and disregard the changes on master.

I cannot merge it, because I don't want to keep the changes on master. What should I do?

Extra: In this case, the 'old' master has already been -ed to another repository such as GitHub. How does this change things?

Q: Undo working copy modifications of one file in Git

After the last commit, I modified a bunch of files in my working copy, but I want to undo the changes to one of those files, as in reset it to the same state as the most recent commit.

However, I only want to undo the working copy changes of just that one file alone, nothing else with it.

How do I do that?

Q: How can I count all the lines of code in a directory recursively?

We've got a PHP application and want to count all the lines of code under a specific directory and its subdirectories.

We don't need to ignore comments, as we're just trying to get a rough idea.

That command works great for a given directory, but it ignores subdirectories. I was thinking the following comment might work, but it is returning 74, which is definitely not the case...

What's the correct syntax to feed in all the files from a directory resursively?

Q: How to redirect and append both standard output and standard error to a file with Bash

To redirect standard output to a truncated file in Bash, I know to use:

To redirect standard output in Bash, appending to a file, I know to use:

To redirect both standard output and standard error to a truncated file, I know to use:

How do I redirect both standard output and standard error appending to a file?  did not work for me.

Q: How to stop tracking and ignore changes to a file in Git?

I have cloned a project that includes some  files. I don't need/like my local  files being tracked by Git (or being brought up when creating a patch), but clearly they are needed in the project.

I have added  to my LOCAL , but the files are already in the repo.

When I type git status, it shows my changes to  which I am not interested in keeping track of or submitting for patches.

How do I remove the "tracking of" these files from my personal repo (but keep them in the source so I can use them) so that I don't see the changes when I do a status (or create a patch)?

Is there a correct/canonical way to handle this situation?

Q: LEFT JOIN vs. LEFT OUTER JOIN in SQL Server

What is the difference between  and ?

Q: Click through div to underlying elements

I have a  that has , along with . Underneath this , I have more elements.

Currently,  I'm able to click the underlying elements when I click outside of the overlay . However, I'm unable to click the underlying elements when clicking directly on the overlay . 

I want to be able to click through this  so that I can click on the underlying elements.

Q: How can I prevent Visual Studio Code from replacing a newly opened, unmodified (preview) tab with a subsequently opened one?

I am using Visual Studio Code 1.3.1 with the newly introduced tabs.

When I click on files, the first file will open in a tab. If I do not make any changes to this file, the second clicked file will open in the same tab.

How can I avoid this and make Visual Studio Code always open a new tab?

Q: How can I remove a commit on GitHub?

I "accidentally" pushed a commit to GitHub.

Is it possible to remove this commit?

I want to revert my GitHub repository as it was before this commit.

Q: Java inner class and static nested class

What is the main difference between an inner class and a static nested class in Java? Does design / implementation play a role in choosing one of these?

Q: Inserting multiple rows in a single SQL query?

I have multiple set of data to insert at once, say 4 rows. My table has three columns: ,  and .

Can I insert all 4 rows in a single SQL statement?

Q: Loop inside React JSX

I'm trying to do something like the following in React JSX (where ObjectRow is a separate component):

I realize and understand why this isn't valid JSX, since JSX maps to function calls. However, coming from template land and being new to JSX, I am unsure how I would achieve the above (adding a component multiple times).

Q: Config Error: This configuration section cannot be used at this path

I've encountered an error deploying a site to a server.  When trying to load the home page, or access authentication on the new site in IIS, I get the error:

  

Config Error: This configuration section cannot be used at this path.
  This happens when the section is locked at a parent level. Locking is
  either by default (overrideModeDefault="Deny"), or set explicitly by a
  location tag with overrideMode="Deny" or the legacy
  allowOverride="false".

More detail can be found here, in Scenario 7 matches my hex error code.

The solution given on the linked site above is to set Allow for overrideModeDefault in the section mentioned in my error, in the applicationHost.config file.  In my case,  under Security in system.webServer.  But if I look at the applicationHost.config on my local computer, where the site is properly deployed already, that section is set to Deny.

If this solution is correct, how is my local instance running just fine with the same web.config?  According to my applicationHost.config, that section should be locked, but it's not.  I'd prefer to not change the applicationHost.config file, because there are many other sites running on that server.  Is there another solution?

Q: Why is using "for...in" for array iteration a bad idea?

I've been told not to use  with arrays in JavaScript. Why not?

Q: How do I break out of nested loops in Java?

I've got a nested loop construct like this:

Now how can I break out of both loops? I've looked at similar questions, but none concerns Java specifically. I couldn't apply these solutions because most used gotos.

I don't want to put the inner loop in a different method.

I don't want to return the loops. When breaking I'm finished with the execution of the loop block.

Q: How to duplicate a whole line in Vim?

How do I duplicate a whole line in Vim in a similar way to Ctrl+D in IntelliJ IDEA/ Resharper or Ctrl+Alt+&#8593;/&#8595; in Eclipse?

Q: Difference between static class and singleton pattern?

What real (i.e. practical) difference exists between a static class and a singleton pattern?

Both can be invoked without instantiation, both provide only one "Instance" and neither of them is thread-safe. Is there any other difference?

Q: How do I make a placeholder for a 'select' box?

I'm using placeholders for text inputs which is working out just fine. But I'd like to use a placeholder for my selectboxes as well. Of course I can just use this code:

But the 'Select your option' is in black instead of lightgrey. So my solution could possibly be CSS-based. jQuery is fine too.

This only makes the option grey in the dropdown (so after clicking the arrow):

The question is: How do people create placeholders in selectboxes? But it has already been answered, cheers.

And using this results in the selected value always being grey (even after selecting a real option):

Q: How to lazy load images in ListView in Android

I am using a  to display some images and captions associated with those images. I am getting the images from the Internet. Is there a way to lazy load images so while the text displays, the UI is not blocked and images are displayed as they are downloaded? 

The total number of images is not fixed.

Q: What is the optimal algorithm for the game 2048?

I have recently stumbled upon the game 2048. You merge similar tiles by moving them in any of the four directions to make "bigger" tiles. After each move, a new tile appears at random empty position with a value of either  or . The game terminates when all the boxes are filled and there are no moves that can merge tiles, or you create a tile with a value of .

One, I need to follow a well-defined strategy to reach the goal. So, I thought of writing a program for it.

My current algorithm:

What I am doing is at any point, I will try to merge the tiles with values  and , that is, I try to have  and  tiles, as minimum as possible. If I try it this way, all other tiles were automatically getting merged and the strategy seems good.

But, when I actually use this algorithm, I only get around 4000 points before the game terminates. Maximum points AFAIK is slightly more than 20,000 points which is way larger than my current score. Is there a better algorithm than the above?

Q: How do I undo 'git reset'?

How do I undo this command?

Q: Scroll to the top of the page using JavaScript?

How do I scroll to the top of the page using JavaScript? The scrollbar instantly jumping to the top of the page is desirable too as I'm not looking to achieve smooth scrolling.

Q: What is tail recursion?

Whilst starting to learn lisp, I've come across the term tail-recursive. What does it mean exactly?

Q: Download a single folder or directory from a GitHub repository

How can I download only a specific folder or directory from a remote Git repository hosted on GitHub?

Say the example GitHub repository lives here:

Its directory structure:

I want to download only the foo folder and not clone the whole Test project.

Q: Is there a way to run Python on Android?

We are working on an S60 version and this platform has a nice Python API..

However, there is nothing official about Python on Android, but since Jython exists, is there a way to let the snake and the robot work together??

Q: How can I avoid having to do "git branch --set-upstream", and instead default to automatically setup remote tracking?

I create a new branch in Git:

Push it:

Now say someone made some changes on the server and I want to pull from . I do:

But I get:

I learned that I can make it work with:

But why do I need to do this for every branch I create? Isn't it obvious that if I push  into , then I would want to pull  into ? How can I make this the default behavior?

Q: NPM vs. Bower vs. Browserify vs. Gulp vs. Grunt vs. Webpack

I'm trying to summarize my knowledge about the most popular JavaScript package managers, bundlers, and task runners. Please correct me if I'm wrong:

-  &  are package managers. They just download the dependencies and don't know how to build projects on their own. What they know is to call // after fetching all the dependencies.

-  is like , but builds a flattened dependency trees (unlike  which does it recursively). Meaning  fetches the dependencies for each dependency (may fetch the same a few times), while  expects you to manually include sub-dependencies. Sometimes  and  are used together for front-end and back-end respectively (since each megabyte might matter in front-end).

-  and  are task runners to automate everything that can be automated (i.e. compile CSS/Sass, optimize images, make a bundle and minify/transpile it).

-  vs.  (is like  vs.  or configuration vs. code). Grunt is based on configuring separate independent tasks, each task opens/handles/closes file. Gulp requires less amount of code and is based on Node streams, which allows it to build pipe chains (without reopening the same file) and makes it faster.

-  () - for me it's a task runner with hot reloading of changes which allows you to forget about all JS/CSS watchers.

- / + plugins may replace task runners. Their abilities often intersect so there are different implications if you need to use / over  + plugins. But task runners are definitely better for complex tasks (e.g. "on each build create bundle, transpile from ES6 to ES5, run it at all browsers emulators, make screenshots and deploy to dropbox through ftp").

-  allows packaging node modules for browsers.  vs 's  is actually AMD vs CommonJS.

Questions:

- What is  & ? Official documentation says it's a module bundler but for me it's just a task runner. What's the difference?

- Where would you use ? Can't we do the same with node/ES6 imports?

- When would you use / over  + plugins?

- Please provide examples when you need to use a combination

Q: How can I remove a trailing newline?

How can I remove the last character of a string if it is a newline?

Q: Static methods in Python?

Can I define a static method which I can call directly on the class instance? e.g.,

Q: How to send a header using a HTTP request through a cURL call?

How can I send a header via a cURL call?

Q: How can I generate a self-signed SSL certificate using OpenSSL?

I'm adding HTTPS support to an embedded Linux device. I have tried to generate a self-signed certificate with these steps:

This works, but I get some errors with, for example, Google Chrome:

This is probably not the site you are looking for!

The site's security certificate is not trusted!

Am I missing something? Is this the correct way to build a self-signed certificate?

Q: Turning off an ESLint rule for a specific line

In order to turn off a linting rule for a particular line in JSHint, we use the following rule:

Is there an equivalent of the above for ESLint?

Q: Select first row in each GROUP BY group?

I'd like to select the first row of each set of rows grouped with a .

Specifically, if I've got a  table that looks like this:

My Output:

id
customer
total

1
Joe
5

2
Sally
3

3
Joe
2

4
Sally
1

I'd like to query for the  of the largest purchase () made by each . Something like this:

Expected Output:

FIRST(id)
customer
FIRST(total)

1
Joe
5

2
Sally
3

Q: Installing specific package version with pip

I am trying to install version 1.2.2 of , using a fresh virtualenv created with the  option. The current version shown in PyPi is 1.2.3. Is there a way to install the older version? I have tried:

However, when installed, it still shows  in the site packages. Is this a problem specific to this package, or am I doing something wrong?

Q: How do I split the definition of a long string over multiple lines?

I have a very long query. I would like to split it in several lines in Python. A way to do it in JavaScript would be using several sentences and joining them with a  operator (I know, maybe it's not the most efficient way to do it, but I'm not really concerned about performance in this stage, just code readability). Example:

I tried doing something similar in Python, but it didn't work, so I used  to split the long string. However, I'm not sure if this is the only/best/pythonicest way of doing it. It looks awkward.
Actual code:

See also: How can I do a line break (line continuation) in Python (split up a long line of source code)? when the overall line of code is long but doesn't contain a long string literal.

Q: Regular cast vs. static_cast vs. dynamic_cast

I've been writing C and C++ code for almost twenty years, but there's one aspect of these languages that I've never really understood. I've obviously used regular casts i.e.

all over the place, but there seem to be two other types of casts, and I don't know the difference. What's the difference between the following lines of code?

Q: What is the difference between a process and a thread?

What is the technical difference between a process and a thread?

I get the feeling a word like 'process' is overused and there are also hardware and software threads. How about light-weight processes in languages like Erlang? Is there a definitive reason to use one term over the other?

Q: How to randomize (shuffle) a JavaScript array?

I have an array like this:

How can I randomize / shuffle it?

Q: How to prettyprint a JSON file?

How do I pretty-print a JSON file in Python?

Q: How do I get PHP errors to display?

I have checked my PHP ini file () and  is set and also error reporting is . I have restarted my Apache webserver.

I have even put these lines at the top of my script, and it doesn't even catch simple parse errors. For example, I declare variables with a  and I don't close statements. But all my scripts show a blank page on these errors, but I want to actually see the errors in my browser output. 

What is left to do?

Q: How to undo "git commit --amend" done instead of "git commit"

I accidentally amended my previous commit. The commit should have been separate to keep history of the changes I made to a particular file.

Is there a way to undo that last commit? If I do something like , the first commit also is undone.

(I have not yet pushed to any remote directories)

Q: Check existence of input argument in a Bash shell script

I need to check the existence of an input argument. I have the following script

I get

How do I check the input argument1 first to see if it exists?

Q: How does data binding work in AngularJS?

How does data binding work in the  framework?

I haven't found technical details on their site. It's more or less clear how it works when data is propagated from view to model. But how does AngularJS track changes of model properties without setters and getters?

I found that there are JavaScript watchers that may do this work. But they are not supported in Internet Explorer 6 and Internet Explorer 7. So how does AngularJS know that I changed for example the following and reflected this change on a view?

Q: How can I check if a string is a valid number?

I'm hoping there's something in the same conceptual space as the old VB6  function?

Q: How to efficiently count the number of keys/properties of an object in JavaScript

What’s the fastest way to count the number of keys/properties of an object? Is it possible to do this without iterating over the object, i.e., without doing:

(Firefox did provide a magic  property, but this was removed somewhere around version 4.)

Q: What do two question marks together mean in C#?

Ran across this line of code:

What do the two question marks mean, is it some kind of ternary operator?
It's hard to look up in Google.

Q: How do CSS triangles work?

There're plenty of different CSS shapes over at CSS Tricks - Shapes of CSS and I'm particularly puzzled with a triangle:








How and why does it work?

Q: How do I get the row count of a Pandas DataFrame?

How do I get the number of rows of a pandas dataframe ?

Q: How can I view an old version of a file with Git?

Is there a command in Git to see (either dumped to stdout, or in  or ) a particular version of a particular file?

Q: What is the difference between an interface and abstract class?

What exactly is the difference between an interface and an abstract class?

Q: Prefer composition over inheritance?

Why prefer composition instead of inheritance?  What trade-offs are there for each approach?  And the converse question: when should I choose inheritance instead of composition?

Q: Getting the class name of an instance

How do I find out the name of the class used to create an instance of an object in Python?

I'm not sure if I should use the  module or parse the  attribute.

Q: How to merge two arrays in JavaScript and de-duplicate items

I have two JavaScript arrays:

I want the output to be:

The output array should have repeated words removed.

How do I merge two arrays in JavaScript so that I get only the unique items from each array in the same order they were inserted into the original arrays?

Q: How do I check if an object has a key in JavaScript?

Which is the right thing to do?

or

or

Q: How to find a deleted file in the project commit history?

Once upon a time, there was a file in my project that I would now like to be able to get.

The problem is: I have no idea of when have I deleted it and on which path it was.

How can I locate the commits of this file when it existed?

Q: How do I check if a string represents a number (float or int)?

How do I check if a string represents a numeric value in Python?

The above works, but it seems clunky.

Editor's note: If what you are testing comes from user input, it is still a string even if it represents an  or a . For converting the input, see How can I read inputs as numbers? For ensuring that the input represents an  or  (or other requirements) before proceeding, see Asking the user for input until they give a valid response

Q: How to read a file line-by-line into a list?

How do I read every line of a file in Python and store each line as an element in a list? 

I want to read the file line by line and append each line to the end of the list.

Q: How can I set the default value for an HTML  element?

I thought that adding a  attribute set on the  element below would cause the  containing my provided  to be selected by default:







However, this did not work as I had expected. How can I set which  element is selected by default?

Q: Detach (move) subdirectory into separate Git repository

I have a Git repository which contains a number of subdirectories. Now I have found that one of the subdirectories is unrelated to the other and should be detached to a separate repository.

How can I do this while keeping the history of the files within the subdirectory?

I guess I could make a clone and remove the unwanted parts of each clone, but I suppose this would give me the complete tree when checking out an older revision etc. This might be acceptable, but I would prefer to be able to pretend that the two repositories doesn't have a shared history.

Just to make it clear, I have the following structure:

But I would like this instead:

Q: What's the canonical way to check for type in Python?

How do I check if an object is of a given type, or if it inherits from a given type?

How do I check if the object  is of type ?

Editor's note: Beginners often wrongly expect a string to already be "a number" – either expecting Python 3.x  to convert type, or expecting that a string like  is also simultaneously an integer. This question does not address those types of questions. Instead, see How do I check if a string represents a number (float or int)?, How can I read inputs as numbers? and/or Asking the user for input until they give a valid response as appropriate.

Q: Hide scroll bar, but while still being able to scroll

I want to be able to scroll through the whole page, but without the scrollbar being shown.

In Google Chrome it's:

But Mozilla Firefox and Internet Explorer don't seem to work like that.

I also tried this in CSS:

That does hide the scrollbar, but I can't scroll any more.

Is there a way I can remove the scrollbar while still being able to scroll the whole page?

With just CSS or HTML, please.

Q: Transitions on the CSS display property

I'm currently designing a CSS 'mega dropdown' menu - basically a regular CSS-only dropdown menu, but one that contains different types of content.

At the moment, it appears that CSS 3 transitions don't apply to the 'display' property, i.e., you can't do any sort of transition from  to  (or any combination).

Is there a way for the second-tier menu from the above example to 'fade in' when someone hovers over one of the top level menu items?

I'm aware that you can use transitions on the  property, but I can't think of a way to use that effectively.

I've also tried using height, but that just failed miserably.

I'm also aware that it's trivial to achieve this using JavaScript, but I wanted to challenge myself to use just CSS, and I think I'm coming up a little short.

Q: Meaning of @classmethod and @staticmethod for a beginner

What do  and  mean in Python, and how are they different? When should I use them, why should I use them, and how should I use them?

As far as I understand,  tells a class that it's a method which should be inherited into subclasses, or... something. However, what's the point of that? Why not just define the class method without adding  or  or any  definitions?

Q: Abort Ajax requests using jQuery

Is it possible that using jQuery, I cancel/abort an Ajax request that I have not yet received the response from?

Q: How can I change a PostgreSQL user password?

How do I change the password for a PostgreSQL user?

Q: How can I add a key/value pair to a JavaScript object?

Here is my object literal:

How can I add field  with  to the object?

Q: "Debug certificate expired" error in Eclipse Android plugins

I am using Eclipse Android plugins to build a project, but I am
getting this error in the console window:

How do I fix it?

Q: How to grep (search through) committed code in the Git history

I have deleted a file or some code in a file sometime in the past. Can I search through the content (not just the commit messages)?

A very poor solution is to grep the log:

However, this doesn't return the commit hash straight away. I played around with  to no avail.

Q: How can I install packages using pip according to the requirements.txt file from a local directory?

Here is the problem:

I have a  file that looks like:

I have a local archive directory containing all the packages + others.

I have created a new virtualenv with

Upon activating it, I tried to install the packages according to  from the local archive directory.

I got some output that seems to indicate that the installation is fine:

But a later check revealed that none of the packages are installed properly. I cannot import the packages, and none are found in the site-packages directory of my virtualenv. So what went wrong?

A: I had the same problem. Don't remember where I found it on the web, but here is what I did:

- Click "Start button"

- in the search box, enter "Turn windows features on or off"

- in the features window, Click: "Internet Information Services"

- Click: "World Wide Web Services"

- Click: "Application Development Features"

- Check (enable) the features. I checked all but CGI.

A: A non-CSS - no JavaScript/jQuery answer:







Update (December 2021):

This works for latest Firefox, Chrome, and Safari. It used to not work for many browsers in the past, as pointed out in the comments.

A: Short answer:

Long answer:

Git keeps a log of all ref updates (e.g., checkout, reset, commit, merge). You can view it by typing:

Somewhere in this list is the commit that you lost. Let's say you just typed  and want to undo it. My reflog looks like this:

The first line says that  0 positions ago (in other words, the current position) is 3f6db14; it was obtained by resetting to . The second line says that  1 position ago (in other words, the state before the reset) is d27924e. It was obtained by checking out a particular commit (though that's not important right now). So, to undo the reset, run  (or ).

If, on the other hand, you've run some other commands since then that update HEAD, the commit you want won't be at the top of the list, and you'll need to search through the .

One final note: It may be easier to look at the  for the specific branch you want to un-reset, say master, rather than :

This should have less noise it in than the general .

A: DEV environment

This always works for me:

However, this doesn't make PHP to show parse errors occurred in the same file. Also, these settings can be overridden by PHP. In these cases the only way to show those errors is to modify your php.ini (or php-fpm.conf) with this line:

(if you don't have access to , then putting this line in  might work too):

PROD environment

Note that above recommendation is only suitable for the DEV environment. On a live site it must be

And then you'll be able to see all errors in the error log. See Where to find PHP error log
AJAX calls

In case of AJAX call, on a DEV server, open DevTools (F12), then Network tab.
Then initiate the request which result you want to see, and it will appear in the Network tab. Click on it and then the Response tab. There you will see the exact output.

While on a live server just check the error log all the same.

A: You should be able to use the “ours” merge strategy to overwrite master with seotweaks like this:

The first two steps are a useful precaution to ensure your local copy of master is up-to-date. The result should be that your master is now essentially seotweaks.

( is short for )

From the docs about the 'ours' strategy:

This resolves any number of heads, but the resulting tree of the merge is always that of the current branch head, effectively ignoring all changes from all other branches. It is meant to be used to supersede old development history of side branches. Note that this is different from the -Xours option to the recursive merge strategy.

Update from comments: If you get fatal: , then change the fourth line to this:

A: What you need to do is to create a new commit with the same details as the current  commit, but with the parent as the previous version of .  will move the branch pointer so that the next commit happens on top of a different commit from where the current branch head is now.

A: When you [single-]click a file in the left sidebar's file browser or open it from the quick open menu (Ctrl + P, type the file name, Enter), Visual Studio Code opens it in what's called "Preview Mode", which allows you to quickly view files.

Preview Mode tabs are not kept open. As soon as you go to open another file from the sidebar, the existing Preview Mode tab (if one exists) is used. You can determine if a tab is in Preview Mode, by looking at its title in the tab bar. If the title is italic, the tab is in preview mode.

To open a file for editing (i.e., don't open in Preview Mode), double-click on the file in the sidebar, or single-click it in the sidebar then double click the title of its Preview Mode tab.

If you want to disable Preview Mode all together, you can do so by setting "workbench.editor.enablePreview": false in your settings file. You can also use the "workbench.editor.enablePreviewFromQuickOpen" option to disable it only from the quick open menu.

Before you can disable Preview Mode, you'll need to open your Settings File.

Pro Tip: You can use the Command Palette (shortcut Ctrl + Shift + P) to open your settings file. Just enter "Preferences: Open User Settings"!

Once you've opened your settings file (your settings file should be located on the right), add the "workbench.editor.enablePreview" property, and set its value to false.

You can learn more about Visual Studio Code's "Preview Mode" here.

See also article How to Always Open Files in a New Tab - VSCode

A: Try the JavaScript in operator.

And the inverse.

Be careful! The  operator matches all object keys, including those in the object's prototype chain.

Use  to check an object's own keys and will only return  if  is available on  directly:

Unless you have a specific reason to use the  operator, using  produces the result most code is looking for.

A: First:

yy or Y to copy the line (mnemonic: yank)

or

dd to delete the line (Vim copies what you deleted into a clipboard-like "register", like a cut operation)

then:

p to paste the copied or deleted text after the current line

or

Shift + P to paste the copied or deleted text before the current line

A: The other answers are correct, in that  will set these permissions to all files and subfolders in the tree. But why on earth would you want to? It might make sense for the directories, but why set the execute bit on all the files?

I suspect what you really want to do is set the directories to 755 and either leave the files alone or set them to 644. For this, you can use the  command. For example:

To change all the directories to 755 ():

To change all the files to 644 ():

Some splainin': (thanks @tobbez)

-  specifies the command that will be executed by  for each directory

-  specifies the command that will be executed by  for each file

-  is replaced by the path

-  the semicolon tells  that this is the end of the command it's supposed to execute

-  the semicolon is escaped, otherwise it would be interpreted by the shell instead of

A: It is:

The  variable will tell you the number of input arguments the script was passed.

Or you can check if an argument is an empty string or not like:

The  switch will test if the expansion of  is a null string or not. If it is a null string then the body is executed.

A: Try:

or (when file names include special characters such as spaces)

The SLOCCount tool may help as well.

It will give an accurate source lines of code count for whatever
hierarchy you point it at, as well as some additional stats.

Sorted output:

A: Yes, you CAN do this. 

Using  along with CSS conditional statements for IE11 (does not work in IE10 or below), you can get a cross browser compatible solution for this problem.

Using , you can even put transparent s in the overlay  and have clicks flow through to elements underneath.

CSS:

IE11 conditional:

Here is a basic example page with all the code.

A: You can do that in one command:

You can also add  (short for "no DES") if you don't want to protect your private key with a passphrase. Otherwise, it will prompt you for "at least a 4 character" password.

The  parameter (365) you can replace with any number to affect the expiration date. It will then prompt you for things like "Country Name", but you can just hit Enter and accept the defaults.

Add  to suppress questions about the contents of the certificate (replace  with your desired domain).

Self-signed certificates are not validated with any third party, unless you import them to the browsers previously. If you need more security, you should use a certificate signed by a certificate authority (CA).

A: 2nd October 2020: note that many bare-bones approaches are fraught with subtle bugs (eg. whitespace, implicit partial parsing, radix, coercion of arrays etc.) that many of the answers here fail to take into account. The following implementation might work for you, but note that it does not cater for number separators other than the decimal point "":

To check if a variable (including a string) is a number, check if it is not a number:

This works regardless of whether the variable content is a string or number.

Examples

Of course, you can negate this if you need to. For example, to implement the  example you gave:

To convert a string containing a number into a number:

Only works if the string only contains numeric characters, else it returns .

Examples

To convert a string loosely to a number

Useful for converting '12px' to 12, for example:

Examples

Floats

Bear in mind that, unlike ,  (as the name suggests) will convert a float into an integer by chopping off everything following the decimal point (if you want to use  because of this behaviour, you're probably better off using another method instead):

Empty strings

Empty strings may be a little counter-intuitive.  converts empty strings or strings with spaces to zero, and  assumes the same:

But  does not agree:

A: Are you talking about multi-line strings? Easy, use triple quotes to start and end them.

You can use single quotes too (3 of them of course at start and end) and treat the resulting string  just like any other string.

NOTE: Just as with any string, anything between the starting and ending quotes becomes part of the string, so this example has a leading blank (as pointed out by @root45). This string will also contain both blanks and newlines.

I.e.,:

Finally, one can also construct long lines in Python like this:

which will not include any extra blanks or newlines (this is a deliberate example showing what the effect of skipping blanks will result in):

No commas required, simply place the strings to be joined together into a pair of parenthesis and be sure to account for any needed blanks and newlines.

A: To disable the next line:

Or use the single line syntax:

See the ESLint documentation.

Thanks to KhalilRavanna's comment:

if you don't care about specificity you can just do //eslint-disable-line and it appears to disable all rules for the given line

A: To do this in any ES5-compatible environment, such as Node.js, Chrome, Internet Explorer 9+, Firefox 4+, or Safari 5+:

- Browser compatibility

- Object.keys documentation (includes a method you can add to non-ES5 browsers)

A: Set the mode in  to  (append) instead of  (write):

The documentation lists all the available modes.

A: Use this:







Basically, the  operation clones the array and returns a reference to a new array.
Also note that:

For references, strings and numbers (and not the actual object),  copies object references into the new array. Both the original and new array refer to the same object. If a referenced object changes, the changes are visible to both the new and original arrays.

Primitives such as strings and numbers are immutable, so changes to the string or number are impossible.

A: Use the  parameter of  or  to specify how many spaces to indent by:

To parse a file, use :

A: will give you the whole repository.

After the clone, you can list the tags with  and then checkout a specific tag:

Even better, checkout and create a branch (otherwise you will be on a branch named after the revision number of tag):

A: This code will read the entire file into memory and remove all whitespace characters (newlines and spaces) from the end of each line:

If you're working with a large file, then you should instead read and process it line-by-line:

In Python 3.8 and up you can use a while loop with the walrus operator like so:

Depending on what you plan to do with your file and how it was encoded, you may also want to manually set the access mode and character encoding:

A: Though  and  are quite similar, there's a slight difference in usage for both entities:  must have a reference to a class object as the first parameter, whereas  can have no parameters at all.
Example

Explanation

Let's assume an example of a class, dealing with date information (this will be our boilerplate):

This class obviously could be used to store information about certain dates (without timezone information; let's assume all dates are presented in UTC).

Here we have , a typical initializer of Python class instances, which receives arguments as a typical instance method, having the first non-optional argument () that holds a reference to a newly created instance.

Class Method

We have some tasks that can be nicely done using s.

Let's assume that we want to create a lot of  class instances having date information coming from an outer source encoded as a string with format 'dd-mm-yyyy'. Suppose we have to do this in different places in the source code of our project.

So what we must do here is:

- Parse a string to receive day, month and year as three integer variables or a 3-item tuple consisting of that variable.

- Instantiate  by passing those values to the initialization call.

This will look like:

For this purpose, C++ can implement such a feature with overloading, but Python lacks this overloading. Instead, we can use . Let's create another constructor.

Let's look more carefully at the above implementation, and review what advantages we have here:

- We've implemented date string parsing in one place and it's reusable now.

- Encapsulation works fine here (if you think that you could implement string parsing as a single function elsewhere, this solution fits the OOP paradigm far better).

-  is the class itself, not an instance of the class. It's pretty cool because if we inherit our  class, all children will have  defined also.

Static method

What about ? It's pretty similar to  but doesn't take any obligatory parameters (like a class method or instance method does).

Let's look at the next use case.

We have a date string that we want to validate somehow. This task is also logically bound to the  class we've used so far, but doesn't require instantiation of it.

Here is where  can be useful. Let's look at the next piece of code:

So, as we can see from usage of , we don't have any access to what the class is---it's basically just a function,  called syntactically like a method, but without access to the object and its internals (fields and other methods), which  does have.

A: There are two ways to add new properties to an object:

Using dot notation:

Using square bracket notation:

The first form is used when you know the name of the property. The second form is used when the name of the property is dynamically determined. Like in this example:

A real JavaScript array can be constructed using either:

The Array literal notation:

The Array constructor notation:

A: I find it easiest to understand move semantics with example code. Let's start with a very simple string class which only holds a pointer to a heap-allocated block of memory:

Since we chose to manage the memory ourselves, we need to follow the rule of three. I am going to defer writing the assignment operator and only implement the destructor and the copy constructor for now:

The copy constructor defines what it means to copy string objects. The parameter  binds to all expressions of type string which allows you to make copies in the following examples:

Now comes the key insight into move semantics. Note that only in the first line where we copy  is this deep copy really necessary, because we might want to inspect  later and would be very surprised if  had changed somehow. Did you notice how I just said  three times (four times if you include this sentence) and meant the exact same object every time? We call expressions such as  "lvalues".

The arguments in lines 2 and 3 are not lvalues, but rvalues, because the underlying string objects have no names, so the client has no way to inspect them again at a later point in time.
rvalues denote temporary objects which are destroyed at the next semicolon (to be more precise: at the end of the full-expression that lexically contains the rvalue). This is important because during the initialization of  and , we could do whatever we wanted with the source string, and the client couldn't tell a difference!

C++0x introduces a new mechanism called "rvalue reference" which, among other things,
allows us to detect rvalue arguments via function overloading. All we have to do is write a constructor with an rvalue reference parameter. Inside that constructor we can do anything we want with the source, as long as we leave it in some valid state:

What have we done here? Instead of deeply copying the heap data, we have just copied the pointer and then set the original pointer to null (to prevent 'delete[]' from source object's destructor from releasing our 'just stolen data'). In effect, we have "stolen" the data that originally belonged to the source string. Again, the key insight is that under no circumstance could the client detect that the source had been modified. Since we don't really do a copy here, we call this constructor a "move constructor". Its job is to move resources from one object to another instead of copying them.

Congratulations, you now understand the basics of move semantics! Let's continue by implementing the assignment operator. If you're unfamiliar with the copy and swap idiom, learn it and come back, because it's an awesome C++ idiom related to exception safety.

Huh, that's it? "Where's the rvalue reference?" you might ask. "We don't need it here!" is my answer :)

Note that we pass the parameter  by value, so  has to be initialized just like any other string object. Exactly how is  going to be initialized? In the olden days of C++98, the answer would have been "by the copy constructor". In C++0x, the compiler chooses between the copy constructor and the move constructor based on whether the argument to the assignment operator is an lvalue or an rvalue.

So if you say , the copy constructor will initialize  (because the expression  is an lvalue), and the assignment operator swaps the contents with a freshly created, deep copy. That is the very definition of the copy and swap idiom -- make a copy, swap the contents with the copy, and then get rid of the copy by leaving the scope. Nothing new here.

But if you say , the move constructor will initialize  (because the expression  is an rvalue), so there is no deep copy involved, only an efficient move.
 is still an independent object from the argument, but its construction was trivial,
since the heap data didn't have to be copied, just moved. It wasn't necessary to copy it because  is an rvalue, and again, it is okay to move from string objects denoted by rvalues.

To summarize, the copy constructor makes a deep copy, because the source must remain untouched.
The move constructor, on the other hand, can just copy the pointer and then set the pointer in the source to null. It is okay to "nullify" the source object in this manner, because the client has no way of inspecting the object again.

I hope this example got the main point across. There is a lot more to rvalue references and move semantics which I intentionally left out to keep it simple. If you want more details please see my supplementary answer.

A: There are a lot of details in the File System API. The most common way is:

A: For a dataframe , one can use any of the following:

- 

- 

-  (== number of non-NaN values in first column)

Code to reproduce the plot:

A: Use the  option of ;

Also available since Git 2.7.0 for :
Basic Usage:

Result:

Advanced Usage:

Result:

Pro Usage (Unix):

You can put the following snippet in your . The recentb alias accepts two arguments:

- : which branch the ahead and behind columns are calculated against. Default master

- : how many recent branches to show. Default 20

Result:

A: Try XML Tools. Plugins -> XML Tools -> Pretty Print (libXML) or (XML only - with line breaks Ctrl + Alt + Shift + B)

You may need to install XML Tools using your plugin manager in order to get this option in your menu.

In my experience, libXML gives nice output but only if the file is 100% correctly formed.

A: Yes, that's it. In the app.module.ts file, I just added:

A: First a disclaimer beforehand: the posted code snippets are all basic examples. You'll need to handle trivial s and s like ,  and consorts yourself.

In case you're developing for Android instead of Java, note also that since introduction of API level 28, cleartext HTTP requests are disabled by default. You are encouraged to use . When really necessary, cleartext can be enabled in the Application Manifest.

Java 11+

In case you're already on Java 11 or newer, then it's good to know that there's next to  another API to deal with HTTP requests in a less verbose manner: . See JEP 321: HTTP Client API.
Preparing

We first need to know at least the URL and the charset. The parameters are optional and depend on the functional requirements.

The query parameters must be in  format and be concatenated by . You would normally also URL-encode the query parameters with the specified charset using .

The  is just for convenience. I prefer it when I would need the String concatenation operator  more than twice.

Firing an HTTP GET request with (optionally) query parameters

It's a trivial task. It's the default request method.

Any query string should be concatenated to the URL using . The  header may hint the server what encoding the parameters are in. If you don't send any query string, then you can leave the  header away. If you don't need to set any headers, then you can even use the  shortcut method.

Either way, if the other side is an , then its  method will be called and the parameters will be available by .

For testing purposes, you can print the response body to standard output as below:

Firing an HTTP POST request with query parameters

Setting the  to  implicitly sets the request method to POST. The standard HTTP POST as web forms do is of type  wherein the query string is written to the request body.

Note: whenever you'd like to submit a HTML form programmatically, don't forget to take the  pairs of any  elements into the query string and of course also the  pair of the  element which you'd like to "press" programmatically (because that's usually been used in the server side to distinguish if a button was pressed and if so, which one).

You can also cast the obtained  to  and use its  instead. But if you're trying to use the connection for output you still need to set  to .

Either way, if the other side is an , then its  method will be called and the parameters will be available by .

Actually firing the HTTP request

You can fire the HTTP request explicitly with , but the request will automatically be fired on demand when you want to get any information about the HTTP response, such as the response body using  and so on. The above examples does exactly that, so the  call is in fact superfluous.

Timeouts

You can use  to set the connect timeout and  to set the read timeout.

The default is basically "no timeout". So you'd like to set these yourself. For example:

There's however a caveat with the read timeout when using Sun/Oracle based JRE. It will silently retry the reading before throwing the timeout exception, most probably merely to have any successful reading ready in the cache. See also Android (Java) HttpURLConnection silent retry on 'read' timeout This is okayish for GET, but absolutely wrong for POST. In case you're using a Sun/Oracle based JRE, you'll want to turn off that as follows:

In case you're writing for Android, above will not work, you'll need this work around on POST:

This will only slightly impact the performance. In case that's undesireable, then consider switching to a different HTTP client such as OkHttp.

Gathering HTTP response information

- HTTP response status:

You need an  here. Cast it first if necessary.

- HTTP response headers:

- HTTP response encoding:

When the  contains a  parameter, then the response body is likely text based and we'd like to process the response body with the server-side specified character encoding then.

Maintaining the session

The server side session is usually backed by a cookie. Some web forms require that you're logged in and/or are tracked by a session. You can use the  API to maintain cookies. You need to prepare a  with a  of  before sending all HTTP requests.

Note that this is known to not always work properly in all circumstances. If it fails for you, then best is to manually gather and set the cookie headers. You basically need to grab all  headers from the response of the login or the first  request and then pass this through the subsequent requests.

The  is there to get rid of cookie attributes which are irrelevant for the server side like , , etc. Alternatively, you could also use  instead of .

Streaming mode

The  will by default buffer the entire request body before actually sending it, regardless of whether you've set a fixed content length yourself using . This may cause s whenever you concurrently send large POST requests (e.g. uploading files). To avoid this, you would like to set the .

But if the content length is really not known beforehand, then you can make use of chunked streaming mode by setting the  accordingly. This will set the HTTP  header to  which will force the request body being sent in chunks. The below example will send the body in chunks of 1 KB.

User-Agent

It can happen that a request returns an unexpected response, while it works fine with a real web browser. The server side is probably blocking requests based on the  request header. The  will by default set it to  where the last part is obviously the JRE version. You can override this as follows:

Use the User-Agent string from a recent browser.

Error handling

If the HTTP response code is  (Client Error) or  (Server Error), then you may want to read the  to see if the server has sent any useful error information.

If the HTTP response code is -1, then something went wrong with connection and response handling. The  implementation is in older JREs somewhat buggy with keeping connections alive. You may want to turn it off by setting the  system property to . You can do this programmatically in the beginning of your application by:

Uploading files

You'd normally use  encoding for mixed POST content (binary and character data). The encoding is in more detail described in RFC2388.

If the other side is an , then its  method will be called and the parts will be available by  (note, thus not  and so on!). Also see this answer for examples.

Dealing with untrusted or misconfigured HTTPS sites

In case you're developing for Android instead of Java, be careful: the workaround below may save your day if you don't have correct certificates deployed during development. But you should not use it for production. These days (April 2021) Google will not allow your app be distributed on Play Store if they detect insecure hostname verifier, see https://support.google.com/faqs/answer/7188426.

Sometimes you need to connect an HTTPS URL, perhaps because you're writing a web scraper. In that case, you may likely face a  on some HTTPS sites who doesn't keep their SSL certificates up to date, or a  or  on some misconfigured HTTPS sites.

The following one-time-run  initializer in your web scraper class should make  more lenient as to those HTTPS sites and thus not throw those exceptions anymore.

Parsing and extracting HTML

If all you want is parsing and extracting data from HTML, then better use a HTML parser like Jsoup.

- What are the pros/cons of leading HTML parsers in Java

- How to scan and extract a webpage in Java

A: Set  for the option you want to be the default.

A: In SQL Server 2008 you can insert multiple rows using a single  statement.

For reference to this have a look at MOC Course 2778A - Writing SQL Queries in SQL Server 2008.

For example:

This syntax is, however, limited to a maximum of 1,000 rows. If you need to  more than 1,000 rows, this can be worked around using a derived table in a  instead, which doesn't have the same limitation:

A: As per the documentation: FROM (Transact-SQL):

The keyword  is marked as optional (enclosed in square brackets). In this specific case, whether you specify  or not makes no difference.  Note that while the other elements of the join clause is also marked as optional, leaving them out will make a difference.

For instance, the entire type-part of the  clause is optional, in which case the default is  if you just specify . In other words, this is legal:

Here's a list of equivalent syntaxes:

Also take a look at the answer I left on this other SO question: SQL left join vs multiple tables on FROM line?.

A: Like other answerers, I'd definitely prefer to put the loops in a different method, at which point you can just return to stop iterating completely. This answer just shows how the requirements in the question can be met.

You can use  with a label for the outer loop. For example:

This prints:

A: You can use

You can do it without the  (as suggested by nimrodm), but if the filename looks like a branch or tag (or other revision identifier), it may get confused, so using  is best.

You can also check out a particular version of a file:

More details included based on comments

First check the the commits of the file

Then you can run this

where the sha-reference is a reference to the sha of a commit, in any form (branch, tag, parent, etc.

A: AngularJS remembers the value and compares it to a previous value. This is basic dirty-checking. If there is a change in value, then it fires the change event.

The  method, which is what you call when you are transitioning from a non-AngularJS world into an AngularJS world, calls . A digest is just plain old dirty-checking. It works on all browsers and is totally predictable.

To contrast dirty-checking (AngularJS) vs change listeners (KnockoutJS and Backbone.js): While dirty-checking may seem simple, and even inefficient (I will address that later), it turns out that it is semantically correct all the time, while change listeners have lots of weird corner cases and need things like dependency tracking to make it more semantically correct. KnockoutJS dependency tracking is a clever feature for a problem which AngularJS does not have.

Issues with change listeners:

- The syntax is atrocious, since browsers do not support it natively. Yes, there are proxies, but they are not semantically correct in all cases, and of course there are no proxies on old browsers. The bottom line is that dirty-checking allows you to do POJO, whereas KnockoutJS and Backbone.js force you to inherit from their classes, and access your data through accessors.

- Change coalescence. Suppose you have an array of items. Say you want to add items into an array, as you are looping to add, each time you add you are firing events on change, which is rendering the UI. This is very bad for performance. What you want is to update the UI only once, at the end. The change events are too fine-grained.

- Change listeners fire immediately on a setter, which is a problem, since the change listener can further change data, which fires more change events. This is bad since on your stack you may have several change events happening at once. Suppose you have two arrays which need to be kept in sync for whatever reason. You can only add to one or the other, but each time you add you fire a change event, which now has an inconsistent view of the world. This is a very similar problem to thread locking, which JavaScript avoids since each callback executes exclusively and to completion. Change events break this since setters can have far-reaching consequences which are not intended and non obvious, which creates the thread problem all over again. It turns out that what you want to do is to delay the listener execution, and guarantee, that only one listener runs at a time, hence any code is free to change data, and it knows that no other code runs while it is doing so.

What about performance?

So it may seem that we are slow, since dirty-checking is inefficient. This is where we need to look at real numbers rather than just have theoretical arguments, but first let's define some constraints.

Humans are:

- 

Slow — Anything faster than 50 ms is imperceptible to humans and thus can be considered as "instant".

- 

Limited — You can't really show more than about 2000 pieces of information to a human on a single page. Anything more than that is really bad UI, and humans can't process this anyway.

So the real question is this: How many comparisons can you do on a browser in 50 ms? This is a hard question to answer as many factors come into play, but here is a test case: http://jsperf.com/angularjs-digest/6 which creates 10,000 watchers. On a modern browser this takes just under 6 ms. On Internet Explorer 8 it takes about 40 ms. As you can see, this is not an issue even on slow browsers these days. There is a caveat: The comparisons need to be simple to fit into the time limit... Unfortunately it is way too easy to add a slow comparison into AngularJS, so it is easy to build slow applications when you don't know what you are doing. But we hope to have an answer by providing an instrumentation module, which would show you which are the slow comparisons.

It turns out that video games and GPUs use the dirty-checking approach, specifically because it is consistent. As long as they get over the monitor refresh rate (typically 50-60 Hz, or every 16.6-20 ms), any performance over that is a waste, so you're better off drawing more stuff, than getting FPS higher.

A: To log in without a password:

To reset the password if you have forgotten:

A: You can use the  escape sequence anywhere in the pattern. For example:

 or  or even 

To do the inverse (case sensitive matching), use  (capital C) instead.

A: If you don't need the change to animate then you don't need to use any special plugins - I'd just use the native JavaScript  method -- passing in  will scroll the page to the top left instantly.

Parameters

- xCoord is the pixel along the horizontal axis.

- yCoord is the pixel along the vertical axis.

A: Bash executes the redirects from left to right as follows:

- : Open  in append mode and redirect  there.

- : Redirect  to "where  is currently going". In this case, that is a file opened in append mode. In other words, the  reuses the file descriptor which  currently uses.

A: It's the null coalescing operator, and quite like the ternary (immediate-if) operator. See also ?? Operator - MSDN.

expands to:

which further expands to:

In English, it means "If whatever is to the left is not null, use that, otherwise use what's to the right."

Note that you can use any number of these in sequence. The following statement will assign the first non-null  to  (if all Answers are null then the  is null):

Also it's worth mentioning while the expansion above is conceptually equivalent, the result of each expression is only evaluated once. This is important if for example an expression is a method call with side effects. (Credit to @Joey for pointing this out.)

A: Since Git 1.7.9 (released 2012), there is a neat mechanism in Git to avoid having to type your password all the time for HTTP / HTTPS, called credential helpers.

You can just use one of the following credential helpers:

The credential.helper cache value tells Git to keep your password cached in memory for a particular amount of minutes. The default is 15 minutes, you can set a longer timeout with:

You can also store your credentials permanently if so desired, see the other answers below.

GitHub's help also suggests that if you're on Mac OS X and used Homebrew to install Git, you can use the native Mac OS X keystore with:

For Windows, there is a helper called Git Credential Manager for Windows or wincred in msysgit.

With Git for Windows 2.7.3+ (March 2016):

For Linux, you would use (in 2011) (or other keyring implementation such as KWallet).

Nowadays (2020), that would be (on Linux)
Fedora

Ubuntu

A: This works for everyone:

Explanation:

-r, --requirement 

Install from the given requirements file. This option can be used multiple times.

A: Have you tried the  attribute of the class? ie  will give you the name of the class, which I think is what you want.

If you're still using Python 2, note that the above method works with new-style classes only (in Python 3+ all classes are "new-style" classes). Your code might use some old-style classes. The following works for both:

A: The de-facto unbiased shuffle algorithm is the Fisher–Yates (aka Knuth) Shuffle.

You can see a great visualization here.

A: See also Undo working copy modifications of one file in Git.

Update August 2019, Git 2.23

With the new  and  commands, that would be:

By default, only the working tree is restored.

If you want to update the index as well (meaning restore the file content, and add it to the index in one command):

As Jakub Narębski mentions in the comments:

works too, except that, as detailed in the SO question "How to retrieve a single file from specific revision in Git?", you need to use the full path from the root directory of the repo.

Hence the path/to/app.js used by Jakub in his example.

As Frosty mentions in the comment:

you will only get the most recent state of app.js

But, for  or , you can actually reference any revision you want, as illustrated in the SO question "git checkout revision of a file in git gui":

would be the same is $FILENAME is a full path of a versioned file.

 can be as shown in :

and so on.

schmijos adds in the comments:

you also can do this from a stash:

This is very useful if you're working on two branches and don't want to commit.

A: In the event that your server serves the same file for "index.html" and "inDEX.htML" you can also use: .

Though, you might want to consider doing this server-side if possible: it will be cleaner and work for people without JS.

EDIT - ES-2022

Using ES-2022 , the above may be written like this:

A: The problem with the other two answers is that the new master doesn't have the old master as an ancestor, so when you push it, everyone else will get messed up. This is what you want to do:

In older versions of , if you want your history to be a little clearer, I'd recommend adding some information to the merge commit message to make it clear what you've done. Change the second line to:

In newer versions of git,  will automatically open the git message editor for you. (Or you can use )

A: To search for commit content (i.e., actual lines of source, as opposed to commit messages and the like), you need to do:

 will work if you run into an "Argument list too long" error.

If you want to limit the search to some subtree (for instance, "lib/util"), you will need to pass that to the  subcommand and  as well:

This will grep through all your commit text for .

The reason for passing the path in both commands is because  will return the revisions list where all the changes to  happened, but also you need to pass to  so that it will only search in .

Just imagine the following scenario:  might find the same  on other files which are contained in the same revision returned by  (even if there was no change to that file on that revision).

Here are some other useful ways of searching your source:

Search working tree for text matching regular expression regexp:

Search working tree for lines of text matching regular expression regexp1 or regexp2:

Search working tree for lines of text matching regular expression regexp1 and regexp2, reporting file paths only:

Search working tree for files that have lines of text matching regular expression regexp1 and lines of text matching regular expression regexp2:

Search working tree for changed lines of text matching pattern:

Search all revisions for text matching regular expression regexp:

Search all revisions between rev1 and rev2 for text matching regular expression regexp:

A: Interfaces

An interface is a contract: The person writing the interface says, "hey, I accept things looking that way", and the person using the interface says "OK, the class I write looks that way".

An interface is an empty shell. There are only the signatures of the methods, which implies that the methods do not have a body. The interface can't do anything. It's just a pattern.

For example (pseudo code):

Implementing an interface consumes very little CPU, because it's not a class, just a bunch of names, and therefore there isn't any expensive look-up to do. It's great when it matters, such as in embedded devices.

Abstract classes

Abstract classes, unlike interfaces, are classes. They are more expensive to use, because there is a look-up to do when you inherit from them.

Abstract classes look a lot like interfaces, but they have something more: You can define a behavior for them. It's more about a person saying, "these classes should look like that, and they have that in common, so fill in the blanks!".

For example:

Implementation

While abstract classes and interfaces are supposed to be different concepts, the implementations make that statement sometimes untrue. Sometimes, they are not even what you think they are.

In Java, this rule is strongly enforced, while in PHP, interfaces are abstract classes with no method declared.

In Python, abstract classes are more a programming trick you can get from the ABC module and is actually using metaclasses, and therefore classes. And interfaces are more related to duck typing in this language and it's a mix between conventions and special methods that call descriptors (the methods).

As usual with programming, there is theory, practice, and practice in another language

A: If you do not know the exact path you may use

If you know the path the file was at, you can do this:

This should show a list of commits in all branches which touched that file. Then, you can find the version of the file you want, and display it with...

Or restore it into your working copy with:

Note the caret symbol (), which gets the checkout prior to the one identified, because at the moment of  commit the file is deleted, we need to look at the previous commit to get the deleted file's contents

A: Use native  method.
Works with nested objects and all major browsers support this method.

Link to Mozilla API Reference and other examples.

Use a custom JSON.stringify replacer if you
encounter this Javascript error

A: Do not apply an explicit width or height to the image tag. Instead, give it:

Also,  if you want to specify a width only.

Example: http://jsfiddle.net/xwrvxser/1/

A: Just calling  on each of the files you want to remove from revision control should be fine. As long as your local ignore patterns are correct you won't see these files included in the output of git status.

Note that this solution removes the files from the repository, so all developers would need to maintain their own local (non-revision controlled) copies of the file

To prevent git from detecting changes in these files you should also use this command:

What you probably want to do: (from below @Ryan Taylor answer)

  
  
- This is to tell git you want your own independent version of the file or folder. For instance, you don't want to overwrite (or delete)
  production/staging config files.
  
  
  

The full answer is here in this URL: http://source.kohlerville.com/2009/02/untrack-files-in-git/

A: :

Single Header:

Multiple Headers:

You can see the request that curl sent by adding the  option.

A: CSS Triangles: A Tragedy in Five Acts

As alex said, borders of equal width butt up against each other at 45 degree angles:

When you have no top border, it looks like this:

Then you give it a width of 0...

...and a height of 0...

...and finally, you make the two side borders transparent:

That results in a triangle.

A: Use  to check if  is an instance of  or any subclass of :

To check if the type of  is exactly , excluding subclasses of :

See Built-in Functions in the Python Library Reference for relevant information.

Checking for strings in Python 2

For Python 2, this is a better way to check if  is a string:

because this will also catch Unicode strings.  is not a subclass of ; both  and  are subclasses of . In Python 3,  no longer exists since there's a strict separation of strings () and binary data ().

Alternatively,  accepts a tuple of classes. This will return  if  is an instance of any subclass of any of :

A: To just merge the arrays (without removing duplicates)
ES5 version use :







2023 update

The original answer was from years ago. ES6 is fully supported and IE is finally dead. Here's the simplest way to merge primitive and object arrays:

Original answer
ES6 version use destructuring

Since there is no 'built in' way to remove duplicates (ECMA-262 actually has  which would be great for this), we have to do it manually. Note that this pollutes the  prototype, use with caution.

Then, to use it:

This will also preserve the order of the arrays (i.e, no sorting needed).

Since many people are annoyed about prototype augmentation of  and  loops, here is a less invasive way to use it:

For those who are fortunate enough to work with browsers where ES5 is available, you can use  like this:

A: Yep, using the  decorator:

Note that some code might use the old method of defining a static method, using  as a function rather than a decorator. This should only be used if you have to support ancient versions of Python (2.2 and 2.3):

This is entirely identical to the first example (using ), just not using the nice decorator syntax.

Finally, use  sparingly! There are very few situations where static-methods are necessary in Python, and I've seen them used many times where a separate "top-level" function would have been clearer.

The following is verbatim from the documentation::

A static method does not receive an implicit first argument. To declare a static method, use this idiom:

The @staticmethod form is a function decorator – see the description of function definitions in Function definitions for details.

It can be called either on the class (such as ) or on an instance (such as ). The instance is ignored except for its class.

Static methods in Python are similar to those found in Java or C++. For a more advanced concept, see .

For more information on static methods, consult the documentation on the standard type hierarchy in The standard type hierarchy.

New in version 2.2.

Changed in version 2.4: Function decorator syntax added.

A: Try the method  (see doc Python 2 and Python 3)

Python's  method strips all kinds of trailing whitespace by default, not just one newline as Perl does with .

To strip only newlines:

In addition to , there are also the methods  and . Here is an example with the three of them:

A: You can use  with a path from the root of the repository ( or  for relative pathing):

Replace  with your actual revision (a Git commit SHA, tag name, branch name, relative commit name, or any other way of identifying a commit in Git).

For example, to view the version of file  from 4 commits ago, use:

Git for Windows requires forward slashes even in paths relative to the current directory.  For more information, check out the man page for .

A: Or, simply, for the default repository:

Note that during  and , ours and theirs may appear swapped;  gives the version from the branch the changes are rebased onto, while  gives the version from the branch that holds your work that is being rebased.
 docs

A: Delete your debug certificate under  on Linux and Mac OS X; the directory is something like on Windows.

The Eclipse plugin should then generate a new certificate when you next try to build a debug package. You may need to clean and then build to generate the certificate.

A: A function is a piece of code that is called by name. It can be passed data to operate on (by the parameters) and can optionally return data (the return value). All data that is passed to a function is explicitly passed.

A method is a piece of code that is called by name that is associated with an object. In most respects, it is identical to a function except for two key differences:

- A method is implicitly passed data to operate on by the object on which it was called.

- A method is able to operate on data that is contained within the class (remembering that an object is an instance of a class - the class is the definition, the object is an instance of that data).

(This is a simplified explanation, ignoring issues of scope etc.)

A: Use the  method:

From MDN:

The  method returns the first value in the array, if an element in the array satisfies the provided testing function. Otherwise  is returned.

If you want to find its index instead, use :

From MDN:

The  method returns the index of the first element in the array that satisfies the provided testing function. Otherwise -1 is returned.

If you want to get an array of matching elements, use the  method instead:

This will return an array of objects. If you want to get an array of  properties, you can do this with the  method:

Side note: methods like  or , and arrow functions are not supported by older browsers (like IE), so if you want to support these browsers, you should transpile your code using Babel (with the polyfill).

A: Git v2.37.1 and above

If you are using the mentioned version or above you can use this new config entry to automatically setup remote tracking:

After that, when you do  tracking is setup automatically. No need for 

A shortcut, which doesn't depend on remembering the syntax for  1 is to do:

... the first time that you push that branch. Or, to push to the current branch from a branch of the same name (handy for an alias):

You only need to use  once, and that sets up the association between your branch and the one at  in the same way as  does.

Personally, I think it's a good thing to have to set up that association between your branch and one on the remote explicitly.  It's just a shame that the rules are different for  and .

1 It may sound silly, but I very frequently forget to specify the current branch, assuming that's the default - it's not, and the results are most confusing.

Apparently I'm not the only person who found it easy to get wrong! Thanks to VonC for pointing out that Git 1.8.0 introduces the more obvious , which can be used as follows, if you're on the branch :

... or with the short option:

This change, and its reasoning, is described in the release notes for Git 1.8.0, release candidate 1:

It was tempting to say , but that tells Git to arrange the local branch  to integrate with the currently checked out branch, which is highly unlikely to be what the user meant. The option is deprecated; use the new  (with a short-and-sweet ) option instead.

A: Consider a simple function that adds the first N natural numbers. (e.g. ).

Here is a simple JavaScript implementation that uses recursion:

If you called , this is what the JavaScript interpreter would evaluate:

Note how every recursive call has to complete before the JavaScript interpreter begins to actually do the work of calculating the sum.

Here's a tail-recursive version of the same function:

Here's the sequence of events that would occur if you called , (which would effectively be , because of the default second argument).

In the tail-recursive case, with each evaluation of the recursive call, the  is updated.

Note: The original answer used examples from Python. These have been changed to JavaScript, since Python interpreters don't support tail call optimization. However, while tail call optimization is part of the ECMAScript 2015 spec, most JavaScript interpreters don't support it).

A: There are several ways of checking if an variable is an array or not. The best solution is the one you have chosen.

This is the fastest method on Chrome, and most likely all other browsers. All arrays are objects, so checking the constructor property is a fast process for JavaScript engines.

If you are having issues with finding out if an objects property is an array, you must first check if the property is there.

Some other ways are:

Update May 23, 2019 using Chrome 75, shout out to @AnduAndrici for having me revisit this with his question
This last one is, in my opinion the ugliest, and it is one of the slowest fastest. Running about 1/5 the speed as the first example. This guy is about 2-5% slower, but it's pretty hard to tell. Solid to use! Quite impressed by the outcome. Array.prototype, is actually an array. you can read more about it here https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/isArray

This method runs about 1/3 the speed as the first example. Still pretty solid, looks cleaner, if you're all about pretty code and not so much on performance. Note that checking for numbers does not work as  always returns . Update:  now goes 2/3 the speed!

So yet another update

This guy is the slowest for trying to check for an Array. However, this is a one stop shop for any type you're looking for. However, since you're looking for an array, just use the fastest method above.

Also, I ran some test: http://jsperf.com/instanceof-array-vs-array-isarray/35 So have some fun and check it out.

Note: @EscapeNetscape has created another test as jsperf.com is down. http://jsben.ch/#/QgYAV I wanted to make sure the original link stay for whenever jsperf comes back online.

A: Because that’s how the POSIX standard defines a line:

    3.206 Line
    A sequence of zero or more non-  characters plus a terminating  character.

Therefore, “lines” not ending in a newline character aren't considered actual lines. That's why some programs process the last line of a file differently if it isn’t newline-terminated.

The advantage of following this convention is that it is internally consistent and all POSIX tools expect and use it. For instance, when concatenating files with , a file terminated by newline ( and  below) will have a different effect than one without ():

We follow this rule for consistency. Doing otherwise would incur extra work when dealing with the default POSIX tools.

Think about it differently: If lines aren’t terminated by newline, making commands such as  useful is much harder: how do you make a command to concatenate files such that

- it puts each file’s start on a new line, which is what you want 95% of the time; but

- it allows merging the last and first line of two files, as in the example above between  and ?

Of course this is solvable but you need to make the usage of  more complex (by adding positional command line arguments, e.g. ), and now the command rather than each individual file controls how it is pasted together with other files. This is almost certainly not convenient.

… Or you need to introduce a special sentinel character to mark a line that is supposed to be continued rather than terminated. Well, now you’re stuck with the same situation as on POSIX, except inverted (line continuation rather than line termination character).

Now, on non POSIX compliant systems (nowadays that’s mostly Windows), the point is moot: files don’t generally end with a newline, and the (informal) definition of a line might for instance be “text that is separated by newlines” (note the emphasis). This is entirely valid. However, for structured data (e.g. programming code) it makes parsing minimally more complicated: it generally means that parsers have to be rewritten. And if a parser was originally written with the POSIX definition in mind, then it might be easier to modify the token stream rather than the parser — in other words, add an “artificial newline” token to the end of the input.

A: What you are trying to do is called a sparse checkout, and that feature was added in Git 1.7.0 (Feb. 2012). The steps to do a sparse clone are as follows:

This creates an empty repository with your remote, and fetches all objects but doesn't check them out. Then do:

Now you need to define which files/folders you want to actually check out. This is done by listing them in , eg:

Last but not least, update your empty repo with the state from the remote:

You will now have files "checked out" for  and  on your file system (with those paths still), and no other paths present.

You might want to have a look at the extended tutorial and you should probably read the official documentation for sparse checkout and read-tree.

As a function:

Usage:

Note that this will still download the whole repository from the server – only the checkout is reduced in size. At the moment it is not possible to clone only a single directory. But if you don't need the history of the repository, you can at least save on bandwidth by creating a shallow clone. See udondan's answer below for information on how to combine shallow clone and sparse checkout.

As of Git 2.25.0 (Jan 2020) an experimental sparse-checkout command is added in Git:

A: From the Java Tutorial:

  

Nested classes are divided into two categories: static and non-static. Nested classes that are declared static are simply called static nested classes. Non-static nested classes are called inner classes. 

Static nested classes are accessed using the enclosing class name:

For example, to create an object for the static nested class, use this syntax:

Objects that are instances of an inner class exist within an instance of the outer class. Consider the following classes:

An instance of InnerClass can exist only within an instance of OuterClass and has direct access to the methods and fields of its enclosing instance.

To instantiate an inner class, you must first instantiate the outer class. Then, create the inner object within the outer object with this syntax:

see: Java Tutorial - Nested Classes

For completeness note that there is also such a thing as an inner class without an enclosing instance:

Here,  is an inner class defined in a static context and does not have an enclosing instance.

A: static_cast

 is used for cases where you basically want to reverse an implicit conversion, with a few restrictions and additions.  performs no runtime checks. This should be used if you know that you refer to an object of a specific type, and thus a check would be unnecessary. Example:

In this example, you know that you passed a  object, and thus there isn't any need for a runtime check to ensure this.
dynamic_cast

 is useful when you don't know what the dynamic type of the object is. It returns a null pointer if the object referred to doesn't contain the type casted to as a base class (when you cast to a reference, a  exception is thrown in that case).

You can not use  for downcast (casting to a derived class) if the argument type is not polymorphic. For example, the following code is not valid, because  doesn't contain any virtual function:

An "up-cast" (cast to the base class) is always valid with both  and , and also without any cast, as an "up-cast" is an implicit conversion (assuming the base class is accessible, i.e. it's a  inheritance).
Regular Cast

These casts are also called C-style cast. A C-style cast is basically identical to trying out a range of sequences of C++ casts, and taking the first C++ cast that works, without ever considering . Needless to say, this is much more powerful as it combines all of ,  and , but it's also unsafe, because it does not use .

In addition, C-style casts not only allow you to do this, but they also allow you to safely cast to a private base-class, while the "equivalent"  sequence would give you a compile-time error for that.

Some people prefer C-style casts because of their brevity. I use them for numeric casts only, and use the appropriate C++ casts when user defined types are involved, as they provide stricter checking.

A: Most of the jQuery Ajax methods return an XMLHttpRequest (or the equivalent) object, so you can just use .

See the documentation:

- abort Method (MSDN). Cancels the current HTTP request.

- abort() (MDN). If the request has been sent already, this method will abort the request.

UPDATE:
As of jQuery 1.5 the returned object is a wrapper for the native XMLHttpRequest object called jqXHR. This object appears to expose all of the native properties and methods so the above example still works. See The jqXHR Object (jQuery API documentation).

UPDATE 2:
As of jQuery 3, the ajax method now returns a promise with extra methods (like abort), so the above code still works, though the object being returned is not an  any more. See the 3.0 blog here. 

UPDATE 3:  still works on jQuery 3.x. Don't assume the update 2 is correct. More info on jQuery Github repository.

A: Update April 2021: there are a few tools created by the community that can do this for you:

- Download Directory (Credits to fregante)

- It has also been integrated into the excellent Refined GitHub Chrome extension as a button in the GitHub web user interface.

- GitZip (Credits to Kino—see his answer here)

- DownGit (Credits to Minhas Kamal—see his answer here)

Note: if you're trying to download a large number of files, you may need to provide a token to these tools to avoid rate limiting.

Original (manual) approach: Checking out an individual directory is not supported by Git natively, but GitHub can do this via Subversion (SVN). If you checkout your code with Subversion, GitHub will essentially convert the repository from Git to Subversion on the backend, and then serve up the requested directory.

Update November 2024: The Subversion support has been removed after January 8, 2024: https://github.blog/news-insights/product-news/sunsetting-subversion-support/. The rest of this answer is outdated and describes the functionality in the past.

Here's how you can use this feature to download a specific folder. I'll use the popular JavaScript library Lodash as an example.

- 

Navigate to the folder you want to download. Let's download  from  branch.

- 

Modify the URL for subversion. Replace  with .

 ➜

- 

Download the folder. Go to the command line and grab the folder with SVN.

You might not see any activity immediately because GitHub takes up to 30 seconds to convert larger repositories, so be patient.

Full URL format explanation:

- If you're interested in  branch, use  instead. So the full path is 

- If you're interested in  branch, use  instead. The
full path looks like 

- Pro tip: You can use  to see available tags and branches before downloading if you wish

That's all! GitHub supports more Subversion features as well, including support for committing and pushing changes.

A: is typically simplest and fastest for this in PostgreSQL.

(For performance optimization for certain workloads see below.)

Or shorter (if not as clear) with ordinal numbers of output columns:

If  can be , add :

Works either way, but you'll want to match existing indexes

db<>fiddle here
Major points

 is a PostgreSQL extension of the standard, where only  on the whole  list is defined.

List any number of expressions in the  clause, the combined row value defines duplicates. The manual:

Obviously, two rows are considered distinct if they differ in at least
one column value. Null values are considered equal in this
comparison.

Bold emphasis mine.

 can be combined with . Leading expressions in  must be in the set of expressions in , but you can rearrange order among those freely. Example.

You can add additional expressions to  to pick a particular row from each group of peers. Or, as the manual puts it:

The  expression(s) must match the leftmost 
expression(s). The  clause will normally contain additional
expression(s) that determine the desired precedence of rows within
each  group.

I added  as last item to break ties:

"Pick the row with the smallest  from each group sharing the highest ."

To order results in a way that disagrees with the sort order determining the first per group, you can nest above query in an outer query with another . Example.

If  can be , you most probably want the row with the greatest non-null value. Add  like demonstrated. See:

- Sort by column ASC, but NULL values first?

The  list is not constrained by expressions in  or  in any way:

- 

You don't have to include any of the expressions in  or .

- 

You can include any other expression in the  list. This is instrumental for replacing complex subqueries and aggregate / window functions.

I tested with Postgres versions 8.3 – 17. But the feature has been there at least since version 7.1, so basically always.
Index

The perfect index for the above query would be a multi-column index spanning all three columns in matching sequence and with matching sort order:

May be too specialized. But use it if read performance for the particular query is crucial. If you have  in the query, use the same in the index so that sort order matches and the index is perfectly applicable.
Effectiveness / Performance optimization

Exiting news for Postgres 18 (Beta 1 released 2025-05-08). Index skip scan has been implemented. The release notes:

- 

Allow skip scans of btree indexes (Peter Geoghegan)

This is effective if the earlier non-referenced columns contain few unique values.

This is huge. It makes some of the below workarounds and related answers obsolete going forward. I'll update here once I have found the time to test.

Weigh cost and benefit before creating tailored indexes for each query. The potential of above index largely depends on data distribution.

The index is used because it delivers pre-sorted data. In Postgres 9.2 or later the query can also benefit from an index only scan if the index is smaller than the underlying table. The index has to be scanned in its entirety, though. Example.

For few rows per customer (high cardinality in column ), this is very efficient. Even more so if you need sorted output anyway. The benefit shrinks with a growing number of rows per customer.

Ideally, you have enough  to process the involved sort step in RAM and not spill to disk. But generally setting  too high can have adverse effects. Consider  for exceptionally big queries. Find how much you need with . Mention of "Disk:" in the sort step indicates the need for more:

- Configuration parameter work_mem in PostgreSQL on Linux

- Optimize simple query using ORDER BY date and text

For many rows per customer (low cardinality in column ), an "index skip scan" or "loose index scan" would be (much) more efficient. But that's not implemented up to Postgres 17. Serious work to implement it one way or another has been ongoing for years now, but so far unsuccessful. See here and here.

For now, there are faster query techniques to substitute for this. In particular if you have a separate table holding unique customers, which is the typical use case. But also if you don't:

- Optimize GROUP BY query to retrieve latest row per user

- SELECT DISTINCT is slower than expected on my table in PostgreSQL

- Optimize groupwise maximum query

- Query last N related rows per row

Benchmarks

See separate answer.

A: In a language implementing classical inheritance like Java, C# or C++ you start by creating a class--a blueprint for your objects--and then you can create new objects from that class or you can extend the class, defining a new class that augments the original class.

In JavaScript you first create an object (there is no concept of class), then you can augment your own object or create new objects from it. It's not difficult, but a little foreign and hard to metabolize for somebody used to the classical way.

Example:







Until now I've been extending the base object, now I create another object and then inheriting from Person.







While as said I can't call setAmountDue(), getAmountDue() on a Person.

A: Think of it like you're just calling JavaScript functions. You can't use a  loop where the arguments to a function call would go:

See how the function  is being passed a  loop as an argument – leading to a syntax error.

But you can make an array, and then pass that in as an argument:

You can basically use the same structure when working with JSX:

Incidentally, my JavaScript example is almost exactly what that example of JSX transforms into. Play around with Babel REPL to get a feel for how JSX works.

A: You can make this happen with less typing. First, change the way your push works:

This will infer the  part, and thus you can do:

Which will both create the remote branch with the same name and track it.

A: Both processes and threads are independent sequences of execution. The typical difference is that threads (of the same process) run in a shared memory space, while processes run in separate memory spaces.

I'm not sure what "hardware" vs "software" threads you might be referring to. Threads are an operating environment feature, rather than a CPU feature (though the CPU typically has operations that make threads efficient).

Erlang uses the term "process" because it does not expose a shared-memory multiprogramming model. Calling them "threads" would imply that they have shared memory.

A: For non-negative (unsigned) integers only, use :

Documentation for : Python2, Python3

For Python 2 Unicode strings:
.

A: is not necessary. This will work fine:

The  function takes out the  part, and the  function gets the integer and ignores the  at the end. The resulting number is passed into the  constructor.

I have intentionally left out the radix (the 2nd argument to ); see my comment below.

Also, I completely agree with Rory's comment: ISO-8601 dates are preferred over this old format - so this format generally shouldn't be used for new development.

For ISO-8601 formatted JSON dates, just pass the string into the  constructor:

A: You can concatenate two transitions or more, and  is what comes handy this time.








(Don't forget the vendor prefixes to the  property.)

More details are in this article.

A: The reason is that one construct:







can sometimes be totally different from the other:







Also consider that JavaScript libraries might do things like this, which will affect any array you create:

A: From linux symlink manual (assuming you are in Linux):

A symbolic link is a special type of file whose contents are a string that is the pathname of another file, the file to which the link refers.  (The contents of a symbolic link can be read using readlink(2).)

So a symbolic link is just another file, no different than a  or a . Git just stores the contents of the link (i.e. the aforementioned path of the file system object that it links to) in a 'blob' just like it would for any other file. It then stores the name, mode and type (including the fact that it is a symlink) in the tree object that represents its containing directory.

When you checkout a tree containing the link, it restores the object as a symlink regardless of whether the target file system object exists or not.

If you delete the file that the symlink references it doesn't affect the Git-controlled symlink in any way. You will have a dangling reference. It is up to the user to either remove or change the link to point to something valid if needed.

A: Reference
The slice() method of Array instances returns a shallow copy of a portion of an array into a new array object selected from start to end (end not included) where start and end represent the index of items in that array. The original array will not be modified.

or

Both will return  if the array is empty.

A: The Easy Way™

It turns out that this is such a common and useful practice that the overlords of Git made it really easy (added in version 1.7.11 - May 2012). Also, there's a real-world example in the walkthrough below.

- 

Prepare the old repo

Note:  must NOT contain leading or trailing characters.  For instance, the folder named  MUST be passed as , NOT 

Note:  is a branch you will be creating in the existing/old repo, NOT the new one [that comes later].

Note for Windows users: When your folder depth is > 1,  must have *nix style folder separator (/). For instance, the folder named  MUST be passed as 

- 

Create the new repo

- 

Link the new repo to GitHub or wherever

- 

Cleanup inside , if desired

Note: This leaves all the historical references in the repository. See the Appendix below if you're actually concerned about having committed a password or you need to decreasing the file size of your  folder.

Walkthrough

These are the same steps as above, but following my exact steps for my repository instead of using .

Here's a project I have for implementing JavaScript browser modules in node:

I want to split out a single folder, , into a separate Git repository

I now have a new branch, , that only has commits for  and I want to create a new repository.

Next, I create a new repo on GitHub or Bitbucket, or whatever and add it as the 

Happy day!

Note: If you created a repo with a ,  and , you will need to pull first:

Lastly, I'll want to remove the folder from the bigger repo

Clearing your history

By default, removing files from Git doesn't actually remove them; it just commits that they aren't there any more. If you want to actually remove the historical references (i.e. you committed a password), you need to do this:

After that, you can check that your file or folder no longer shows up in the Git history at all:

However, you can't "push" deletes to GitHub and the like. If you try, you'll get an error and you'll have to  before you can  - and then you're back to having everything in your history.

So if you want to delete history from the "origin" - meaning to delete it from GitHub, Bitbucket, etc - you'll need to delete the repo and re-push a pruned copy of the repo. But wait - there's more! - if you're really concerned about getting rid of a password or something like that you'll need to prune the backup (see below).
Making  smaller

The aforementioned delete history command still leaves behind a bunch of backup files - because Git is all too kind in helping you to not ruin your repo by accident. It will eventually delete orphaned files over the days and months, but it leaves them there for a while in case you realize that you accidentally deleted something you didn't want to.

So if you really want to empty the trash to reduce the clone size of a repo immediately you have to do all of this really weird stuff:

That said, I'd recommend not performing these steps unless you know that you need to - just in case you did prune the wrong subdirectory, y'know? The backup files shouldn't get cloned when you push the repo, they'll just be in your local copy.
Credit

- http://psionides.eu/2010/02/04/sharing-code-between-projects-with-git-subtree/

- Remove a directory permanently from git

- http://blogs.atlassian.com/2013/05/alternatives-to-git-submodule-git-subtree/

- How to remove unreferenced blobs from my Git repository

A: If your goal is to use a profiler, use one of the suggested ones.

However, if you're in a hurry and you can manually interrupt your program under the debugger while it's being subjectively slow, there's a simple way to find performance problems.

Execute your code in a debugger like gdb, halt it and each time look at the call stack (e.g. backtrace) several times. If there is some code that is wasting some percentage of the time, 20% or 50% or whatever, that is the probability that you will catch it in the act on each sample. So, that is roughly the percentage of samples on which you will see it. There is no educated guesswork required. If you do have a guess as to what the problem is, this will prove or disprove it.

You probably have multiple performance problems of different sizes. If you clean out any one of them, the remaining ones will take a larger percentage, and be easier to spot, on subsequent passes. This magnification effect, when compounded over multiple problems, can lead to truly massive speedup factors.

Caveat: Programmers tend to be skeptical of this technique unless they've used it themselves. They will say that profilers give you this information, but that is only true if they sample the entire call stack, and then let you examine a random set of samples. (The summaries are where the insight is lost.) Call graphs don't give you the same information, because

- They don't summarize at the instruction level, and

- They give confusing summaries in the presence of recursion.

They will also say it only works on toy programs, when actually it works on any program, and it seems to work better on bigger programs, because they tend to have more problems to find. They will say it sometimes finds things that aren't problems, but that is only true if you see something once. If you see a problem on more than one sample, it is real.

P.S. This can also be done on multi-thread programs if there is a way to collect call-stack samples of the thread pool at a point in time, as there is in Java.

P.P.S As a rough generality, the more layers of abstraction you have in your software, the more likely you are to find that that is the cause of performance problems (and the opportunity to get speedup).

Added: It might not be obvious, but the stack sampling technique works equally well in the presence of recursion. The reason is that the time that would be saved by removal of an instruction is approximated by the fraction of samples containing it, regardless of the number of times it may occur within a sample.

Another objection I often hear is: "It will stop someplace random, and it will miss the real problem".
This comes from having a prior concept of what the real problem is.
A key property of performance problems is that they defy expectations.
Sampling tells you something is a problem, and your first reaction is disbelief.
That is natural, but you can be sure if it finds a problem it is real, and vice-versa.

Added: Let me make a Bayesian explanation of how it works.  Suppose there is some instruction  (call or otherwise) which is on the call stack some fraction  of the time (and thus costs that much). For simplicity, suppose we don't know what  is, but assume it is either 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, ... 0.9, 1.0, and the prior probability of each of these possibilities is 0.1, so all of these costs are equally likely a-priori.

Then suppose we take just 2 stack samples, and we see instruction  on both samples, designated observation . This gives us new estimates of the frequency  of , according to this:

The last column says that, for example, the probability that  >= 0.5 is 92%, up from the prior assumption of 60%.

Suppose the prior assumptions are different. Suppose we assume  is .991 (nearly certain), and all the other possibilities are almost impossible (0.001). In other words, our prior certainty is that  is cheap. Then we get:

Now it says  is 26%, up from the prior assumption of 0.6%. So Bayes allows us to update our estimate of the probable cost of . If the amount of data is small, it doesn't tell us accurately what the cost is, only that it is big enough to be worth fixing.

Yet another way to look at it is called the Rule Of Succession.
If you flip a coin 2 times, and it comes up heads both times, what does that tell you about the probable weighting of the coin?
The respected way to answer is to say that it's a Beta distribution, with average value .

(The key is that we see  more than once. If we only see it once, that doesn't tell us much except that  > 0.)

So, even a very small number of samples can tell us a lot about the cost of instructions that it sees. (And it will see them with a frequency, on average, proportional to their cost. If  samples are taken, and  is the cost, then  will appear on  samples. Example, , , that is  samples.)

Added: To give an intuitive feel for the difference between measuring and random stack sampling:
There are profilers now that sample the stack, even on wall-clock time, but what comes out is measurements (or hot path, or hot spot, from which a "bottleneck" can easily hide). What they don't show you (and they easily could) is the actual samples themselves. And if your goal is to find the bottleneck, the number of them you need to see is, on average, 2 divided by the fraction of time it takes.
So if it takes 30% of time, 2/.3 = 6.7 samples, on average, will show it, and the chance that 20 samples will show it is 99.2%.

Here is an off-the-cuff illustration of the difference between examining measurements and examining stack samples.
The bottleneck could be one big blob like this, or numerous small ones, it makes no difference.

Measurement is horizontal; it tells you what fraction of time specific routines take.
Sampling is vertical.
If there is any way to avoid what the whole program is doing at that moment, and if you see it on a second sample, you've found the bottleneck.
That's what makes the difference - seeing the whole reason for the time being spent, not just how much.

A: TL;DR:

Update as of 2022-12-28:

For example: 

What these options mean:

-  is an option to reinstall all packages even if they are already up-to-date.

-  is for verbose. You can combine for even more verbosity (i.e. ) up to 3 times (e.g. ).

Thanks to @Peter for highlighting this (and it seems that the context of the question has broadened given the time when the question was first asked!), the documentation for Python discusses a caveat with using , in that it can break your installation if it was installed with a different package manager or if if your package is/was a different version.

Original answer:

-  (i.e. )

What these options mean:

-  stands for  which will ignore the installed packages, overwriting them.

-  is for verbose. You can combine for even more verbosity (i.e. ) up to 3 times (e.g. ).

For more information, see 

First, I see two issues with what you're trying to do. Since you already have an installed version, you should either uninstall the current existing driver or use 

However, you'll soon find out that this doesn't work. If you look at pip's installation log, or if you do a  you'll find that the PyPI URL link does not work for MySQL_python v1.2.2. You can verify this here: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/MySQL-python/1.2.2

The download link 404s and the fallback URL links are re-directing infinitely due to sourceforge.net's recent upgrade and PyPI's stale URL.

So to properly install the driver, you can follow these steps:

A: Note: please see an alternative to  in the comments below—

First, remove the commit on your local repository. You can do this using . For example, if it's your last commit, you can do  and delete the second line within the editor window that pops up.

Then, force push to GitHub by using 

See Git Magic Chapter 5: Lessons of History - And Then Some for more information (i.e. if you want to remove older commits).

Oh, and if your working tree is dirty, you have to do a  first, and then a  after.

A: On databases that support CTE and windowing functions:

Supported by any database:

But you need to add logic to break ties:

A: As you are already using jQuery, you can use the grep function which is intended for searching an array:

The result is an array with the items found. If you know that the object is always there and that it only occurs once, you can just use  to get the value. Otherwise you should check the length of the resulting array. Example:

A: It's because any iterable can be joined (e.g, list, tuple, dict, set), but its contents and the "joiner" must be strings.

For example:

Using something other than strings will raise the following error:

TypeError: sequence item 0: expected str instance, int found

A: Prefer composition over inheritance as it is more malleable / easy to modify later, but do not use a compose-always approach. With composition, it's easy to change behavior on the fly with Dependency Injection / Setters. Inheritance is more rigid as most languages do not allow you to derive from more than one type. So the goose is more or less cooked once you derive from TypeA.

My acid test for the above is:  

- 

Does TypeB want to expose the complete interface (all public methods no less) of TypeA such that TypeB can be used where TypeA is expected? Indicates Inheritance. 

- e.g. A Cessna biplane will expose the complete interface of an airplane, if not more. So that makes it fit to derive from Airplane. 

- 

Does TypeB want only some/part of the behavior exposed by TypeA? Indicates need for Composition.   

- e.g. A Bird may need only the fly behavior of an Airplane. In this case, it makes sense to extract it out as an interface / class / both and make it a member of both classes.

Update: Just came back to my answer and it seems now that it is incomplete without a specific mention of Barbara Liskov's Liskov Substitution Principle as a test for 'Should I be inheriting from this type?'

A: If you do want smooth scrolling, try something like this:

That will take any  tag whose  and make it smooth scroll to the top.

A: What makes you say that either a singleton or a static method isn't thread-safe? Usually both should be implemented to be thread-safe.

The big difference between a singleton and a bunch of static methods is that singletons can implement interfaces (or derive from useful base classes, although that's less common, in my experience), so you can pass around the singleton as if it were "just another" implementation.

A: +  downloads only the required files

E.g., to clone only files in subdirectory  in this test repository: https://github.com/cirosantilli/test-git-partial-clone-big-small-no-bigtree

You could also select multiple directories for download with:

The slash in  is required, if you do just  then git also downloads any other directory with basename , we have a subdir/small/ directory in the repository to test that.

Note: This method doesn't work for individual files however, but here is another method that does: How to sparsely checkout only one single file from a git repository?
Confirming that we actually didn't download uneeded files

The above test repository contains:

- a  subdirectory with 10x 10MB files

- 10x 10MB files , , ...  on toplevel (this is because certain previous attempts would download toplevel files)

- a  and  subdirectories with 1000 files of size one byte each

All contents are pseudo-random and therefore incompressible, so we can easily notice if any of the big files were downloaded, e.g. with .

So if you download anything you didn't want, you would get 100 MB extra, and it would be very noticeable.

All git commands ran were basically instantaneous, and we can confirm that the cloned repository is very small as desired:

giving:

Running  downloads a single object, presumably the commit:

and then the final checkout downloads the files we requested:

Tested on git 2.37.2, Ubuntu 22.10, on January 2023.
Downloading from a specific branch

The procedure is the same as checking out a different directory other than master: How do I clone a single branch in Git? just add :

The branch  renames  to  to ensure that there is no confusion between the branches when fetching, and the above fetch is quick and small as before.
TODO Also prevent download of unneeded tree objects

The above method downloads all Git tree objects (i.e. directory listings, but not actual file contents). We can confirm that by running:

and seeing that it contains the directories large files such as:

In most projects this won't be an issue, as these should be small compared to the actual file contents, but the perfectionist in me would like to avoid them.

I've also created a very extreme repository with some very large tree objects (100 MB) under the directory : https://github.com/cirosantilli/test-git-partial-clone-big-small

Let me know if anyone finds a way to clone just the  directory from it!
About the Commands

The  option was added together with an update to the remote protocol, and it truly prevents objects from being downloaded from the server.

The  part is also needed unfortunately. You can also only download certain files with the much more understandable:

but that method for some reason downloads files one by one very slowly, making it unusable unless you have very few files in the directory.

Another less verbose but failed attempt was:

but that downloads all files in the toplevel directory: How to prevent git clone --filter=blob:none --sparse from downloading files on the root directory?
The Dream: Any Directory can have Web Interface Metadata

This feature could revolutionize Git.

Imagine having all the code base of your enterprise in a single monorepo without ugly third-party tools like .

Imagine storing huge blobs directly in the repo without any ugly third party extensions.

Imagine if GitHub would allow per file / directory metadata like stars and permissions, so you can store all your personal stuff under a single repo.

Imagine if submodules were treated exactly like regular directories: just request a tree SHA, and a DNS-like mechanism resolves your request, first looking on your local , then first to closer servers (your enterprise's mirror / cache) and ending up on GitHub.

I have a dream.

The test cone monorepo philosophy

This is a possible philosophy for monorepo maintenance without submodules.

We want to avoid submodules because it is annoying to have to commit to two separate repositories every time you make a change that has a submodule and non-submodule component.

Every directory with a Makefile or analogous should build and test itself.

Such directories can depend on either:

- every file and subdirectory under it directly at their latest versions

- external directories can be relied upon only at specified versions

Until git starts supporting this natively (i.e. submodules that can track only subdirectories), we can support this with some metadata in a git tracked file:

monorepo.json

where  refers to the usual SHA of the entire repository. Then we need scripts that will checkout such directories e.g. under a gitignored  folder:

Whenever you change a file, you have to go up the tree and test all directories that have Makefile. This is because directories can depend on subdirectories at their latest versions, so you could always break something above you.

Related:

- https://github.com/josh-project/josh

- https://www.pantsbuild.org/

A: You can use the recursive "theirs" strategy option:

From the man:

Note: as the man page says, the "ours" merge strategy-option is very different from the "ours" merge strategy.

Q: Pretty Git branch graphs

I've seen some books and articles have some really pretty looking graphs of Git branches and commits. How can I make high-quality printable images of Git history?

Q: How to query MongoDB with "like"

I want to query something with SQL's  query:

How can I achieve the same in MongoDB? I can't find an operator for  in the documentation.

Q: git: how to rename a branch (both local and remote)?

I have a local branch  that points to a remote branch  (oops, typo!).

How do I rename the remote branch to  or ?

I tried:

But this gave an error:

error : Could not rename config section 'remote.regacy' to 'remote.legacy'

Q: How to generate a random alpha-numeric string

I've been looking for a simple Java algorithm to generate a pseudo-random alpha-numeric string.  In my situation it would be used as a unique session/key identifier that would "likely" be unique over  generation (my needs don't really require anything much more sophisticated).  

Ideally, I would be able to specify a length depending on my uniqueness needs. For example, a generated string of length 12 might look something like .

Q: How do you use a variable in a regular expression?

I would like to create a  method in JavaScript and think using a regex would be the most terse way to do it.  However, I can't figure out how to pass a variable into a regex.  I can do this already which will replace all the instances of  with .

But I want to do something like this:

But obviously, this will only replace the text ...so how do I pass this variable into my regex string?

Q: How to exit from PostgreSQL command line utility: psql

What command or short key can I use to exit the PostgreSQL command line utility ?

Q: How to convert decimal to hexadecimal in JavaScript

How do you convert decimal values to their hexadecimal equivalent in JavaScript?

Q: How to get screen dimensions as pixels in Android

I created some custom elements, and I want to programmatically place them to the upper right corner ( pixels from the top edge and  pixels from the right edge). Therefore I need to get the screen width and screen height and then set position:

How do I get  and  in the main Activity?

Q: How do I declare custom exceptions in modern Python?

How do I declare custom exception classes in modern Python? My primary goal is to follow whatever standard other exception classes have, so that (for instance) any extra string I include in the exception is printed out by whatever tool caught the exception.

By "modern Python" I mean something that will run in Python 2.5 but be 'correct' for the Python 2.6 and Python 3.* way of doing things. And by "custom" I mean an  object that can include extra data about the cause of the error: a string, maybe also some other arbitrary object relevant to the exception.

I was tripped up by the following deprecation warning in Python 2.6.2:

It seems crazy that  has a special meaning for attributes named . I gather from PEP-352 that attribute did have a special meaning in 2.5 they're trying to deprecate away, so I guess that name (and that one alone) is now forbidden? Ugh.

I'm also fuzzily aware that  has some magic parameter , but I've never known how to use it. Nor am I sure it's the right way to do things going forward; a lot of the discussion I found online suggested they were trying to do away with args in Python 3.

Q: From an array of objects, extract value of a property as array

I have JavaScript object array with the following structure:

I want to extract a field from each object, and get an array containing the values, for example field  would give array .

I can do this with this trivial approach:

Is there a more elegant or idiomatic way to do this, so that a custom utility function would be unnecessary?

Note about suggested duplicate, it covers how to convert a single object to an array.

Q: How can I merge multiple commits onto another branch as a single squashed commit?

I have a remote Git server, here is the scenario which I want to perform:

- 

For each bug/feature I create a different Git branch

- 

I keep on committing my code in that Git branch with un-official Git messages

- 

In top repository we have to do one commit for one bug with official Git message

So how can I merge my branch to remote branch so that they get just one commit for all my check-ins (I even want to provide commit message for this)?

Q: How to detect a mobile device using jQuery

Is there a way to detect whether or not a user is using a mobile device in jQuery? Something similar to the CSS  attribute? I would like to run a different script if the browser is on a handheld device.

The jQuery  function is not what I am looking for.

Q: How to "git diff" the working tree to the stash?

How can I see the changes un-stashing will make to the current working tree? I would like to know what changes will be made before applying them!

Q: Where should I put  tags in HTML markup?

When embedding JavaScript in an HTML document, where is the proper place to put the  tags and included JavaScript? I seem to recall that you are not supposed to place these in the  section, but placing at the beginning of the  section is bad, too, since the JavaScript will have to be parsed before the page is rendered completely (or something like that). This seems to leave the end of the  section as a logical place for  tags.

So, where is the right place to put the  tags?

(This question references this question, in which it was suggested that JavaScript function calls should be moved from  tags to  tags. I'm specifically using jQuery, but more general answers are also appropriate.)

Q: What does enctype='multipart/form-data' mean?

What does  mean in an HTML form and when should we use it?

Q: When to use virtual destructors?

I have a solid understanding of most  theory but the one thing that confuses me a lot is virtual destructors.

I thought that the destructor always gets called no matter what and for every object in the chain.

When are you meant to make them virtual and why?

Q: What's the difference between the atomic and nonatomic attributes?

What do  and  mean in property declarations?

What is the operational difference between these three?

Q: How do I split a string in Java?

I want to split a string using a delimiter, for example split  into two separate strings by the delimiter :

That means the first string will contain the characters before , and the second string will contain the characters after .

I also want to check if the string has the delimiter () in it.

Q: What does "Could not find or load main class" mean?

A common problem that new Java developers experience is that their programs fail to run with the error message:  

What does this mean, what causes it, and how should you fix it?

Q: Type Checking: typeof, GetType, or is?

I've seen many people use the following code:

But I know you could also do this:

Or this:

Personally, I feel the last one is the cleanest, but is there something I'm missing? Which one is the best to use, or is it personal preference?

Q: What's the difference between a proxy server and a reverse proxy server?

What is the difference between a proxy server and a reverse proxy server?

Q: fatal error: Python.h: No such file or directory

I am trying to build a shared library using a C extension file but first I have to generate the output file using the command below:

After executing the command, I get this error message:

I have tried all the suggested solutions over the internet but the problem still exists. I have no problem with . I managed to locate the file on my machine.

Q: What is TypeScript and why should I use it instead of JavaScript?

What is the TypeScript language? What can it do that JavaScript or available libraries cannot do, that would give me reason to consider it?

Q: How to move an element into another element

I would like to move one DIV element inside another. For example, I want to move this (including all children):

into this:

so that I have this:

Q: Git push requires username and password

I cloned a Git repository from my GitHub account to my PC.

I want to work with both my PC and laptop, but with one GitHub account.

When I try to push to or pull from GitHub using my PC, it requires a username and password, but not when I'm using the laptop!

I don't want to type my username and password every time I interact with . What am I missing here?

Q: How do I configure git to ignore some files locally?

Can I ignore files locally without polluting the global git config for everyone else? I have untracked files that are spam in my git status but I don't want to commit git config changes for every single little random untracked file I have in my local branches.

Q: Generate random integers between 0 and 9

How can I generate random integers between  and  (inclusive) in Python?

For example, , , , , , , , , ,

Q: What is the 'new' keyword in JavaScript?

The  keyword in JavaScript can be quite confusing when it is first encountered, as people tend to think that JavaScript is not an object-oriented programming language.

- What is it?

- What problems does it solve?

- When is it appropriate and when not?

Q: How do we control web page caching, across all browsers?

Our investigations have shown us that not all browsers respect the HTTP cache directives in a uniform manner.

For security reasons we do not want certain pages in our application to be cached, ever, by the web browser. This must work for at least the following browsers:

- Internet Explorer 6+

- Firefox 1.5+

- Safari 3+

- Opera 9+

- Chrome

Our requirement came from a security test. After logging out from our website you could press the back button and view cached pages.

Q: Table Naming Dilemma: Singular vs. Plural Names

Academia has it that table names should be the singular of the entity that they store attributes of.  

I dislike any T-SQL that requires square brackets around names, but I have renamed a  table to the singular, forever sentencing those using the table to sometimes have to use brackets.  

My gut feel is that it is more correct to stay with the singular, but my gut feel is also that brackets indicate undesirables like column names with spaces in them etc.

Should I stay, or should I go?

Q: How to specify the private SSH-key to use when executing shell command on Git?

A rather unusual situation perhaps, but I want to specify a private SSH-key to use when executing a shell () command from the local computer.

Basically like this:

Or even better (in Ruby):

I have seen examples of connecting to a remote server with  that uses a specified private key, but this is a local command. Is it possible?

Q: How do I properly force a Git push?

I've set up a remote non-bare "main" repo and cloned it to my computer. I made some local changes, updated my local repository, and pushed the changes back to my remote repo. Things were fine up to that point.

Now, I had to change something in the remote repo. Then I changed something in my local repo. I realized that the change to the remote repo was not needed. So I tried to  from my local repo to my remote repo, but I got an error like:

  

To prevent you from losing history, non-fast-forward updates were
  rejected Merge the remote changes before pushing again.  See the 'Note
  about fast-forwards' section of  for details.

I thought that probably a

would force my local copy to push changes to the remote one and make it the same. It does force the update, but when I go back to the remote repo and make a commit, I notice that the files contain outdated changes (ones that the main remote repo previously had).

As I mentioned in the comments to one of the answers:

  

[I] tried forcing, but when going back to master server to save the changes, i get outdated staging. Thus, when i commit the repositories are not the same. And when i try to use git push again, i get the same error.

How can I fix this issue?

Q: How can the default Node.js version be set using NVM?

I have installed nvm (Node.js with Z shell (executable ) (executable ) shell) with two Node.js versions: v6.11.5 and v9.0.0, and the default version in nvm is the v9.0.0.

Every time I need to change the Node.js version,

Output:

And:

How could I change the nvm version default to define v6.11.5?

Q: vs.  -- which to use?

When looking at most sites (including SO), most of them use:

instead of:

- What are the main differences between the two, if any?

- Are there valid reasons to use one instead of the other?

- Are there valid reasons to use combine them?

- Does using  come with compatibility issues, seeing it is not very widely used?

Q: Image Processing: Algorithm Improvement for 'Coca-Cola Can' Recognition

One of the most interesting projects I've worked on in the past couple of years was a project about image processing. The goal was to develop a system to be able to recognize Coca-Cola 'cans' (note that I'm stressing the word 'cans', you'll see why in a minute). You can see a sample below, with the can recognized in the green rectangle with scale and rotation.

Some constraints on the project:

- The background could be very noisy.

- The can could have any scale or rotation or even orientation (within reasonable limits).

- The image could have some degree of fuzziness (contours might not be entirely straight).

- There could be Coca-Cola bottles in the image, and the algorithm should only detect the can!

- The brightness of the image could vary a lot (so you can't rely "too much" on color detection).

- The can could be partly hidden on the sides or the middle and possibly partly hidden behind a bottle.

- There could be no can at all in the image, in which case you had to find nothing and write a message saying so.

So you could end up with tricky things like this (which in this case had my algorithm totally fail):

I did this project a while ago, and had a lot of fun doing it, and I had a decent implementation. Here are some details about my implementation:

Language: Done in C++ using OpenCV library.

Pre-processing: For the image pre-processing, i.e. transforming the image into a more raw form to give to the algorithm, I used 2 methods:

- Changing color domain from RGB to HSV and filtering based on "red" hue, saturation above a certain threshold to avoid orange-like colors, and filtering of low value to avoid dark tones. The end result was a binary black and white image, where all white pixels would represent the pixels that match this threshold. Obviously there is still a lot of crap in the image, but this reduces the number of dimensions you have to work with.

- Noise filtering using median filtering (taking the median pixel value of all neighbors and replace the pixel by this value) to reduce noise.

- Using Canny Edge Detection Filter to get the contours of all items after 2 precedent steps.

Algorithm: The algorithm itself I chose for this task was taken from this awesome book on feature extraction and called Generalized Hough Transform (pretty different from the regular Hough Transform). It basically says a few things:

- You can describe an object in space without knowing its analytical equation (which is the case here).

- It is resistant to image deformations such as scaling and rotation, as it will basically test your image for every combination of scale factor and rotation factor.

- It uses a base model (a template) that the algorithm will "learn".

- Each pixel remaining in the contour image will vote for another pixel which will supposedly be the center (in terms of gravity) of your object, based on what it learned from the model.

In the end, you end up with a heat map of the votes, for example here all the pixels of the contour of the can will vote for its gravitational center, so you'll have a lot of votes in the same pixel corresponding to the center, and will see a peak in the heat map as below:

Once you have that, a simple threshold-based heuristic can give you the location of the center pixel, from which you can derive the scale and rotation and then plot your little rectangle around it (final scale and rotation factor will obviously be relative to your original template). In theory at least...

Results: Now, while this approach worked in the basic cases, it was severely lacking in some areas:

- It is extremely slow! I'm not stressing this enough. Almost a full day was needed to process the 30 test images, obviously because I had a very high scaling factor for rotation and translation, since some of the cans were very small.

- It was completely lost when bottles were in the image, and for some reason almost always found the bottle instead of the can (perhaps because bottles were bigger, thus had more pixels, thus more votes)

- Fuzzy images were also no good, since the votes ended up in pixel at random locations around the center, thus ending with a very noisy heat map.

- In-variance in translation and rotation was achieved, but not in orientation, meaning that a can that was not directly facing the camera objective wasn't recognized.

How do I improve my specific algorithm, using exclusively OpenCV features, to resolve the four specific issues mentioned?

Q: How to access the correct `this` inside a callback

I have a constructor function which registers an event handler:







However, I'm not able to access the  property of the created object inside the callback. It looks like  does not refer to the object that was created, but to another one.

I also tried to use an object method instead of an anonymous function:

but it exhibits the same problems.

How can I access the correct object?

Q: How do I prompt for Yes/No/Cancel input in a Linux shell script?

I want to pause input in a shell script, and prompt the user for choices.

The standard , , or  type question.

How do I accomplish this in a typical bash prompt?

Q: What is the meaning of single and double underscore before an object name?

What do single and double leading underscores before an object's name represent in Python?

Q: Difference between sh and Bash

When writing shell programs, we often use  and . I usually use , but I don't know what's the difference between them.

What's the main difference between Bash and ?

What do we need to be aware of when programming in Bash and ?

Q: Vanilla JavaScript equivalent of jQuery's $.ready() - how to call a function when the page/DOM is ready for it

With jQuery, we all know the wonderful  function:

However, let's say I want to run a function that is written in standard JavaScript with no library backing it, and that I want to launch a function as soon as the page is ready to handle it. What's the proper way to approach this?

I know I can do:

Or I can use the  tag:

Or I can even try at the bottom of the page after everything, but the end  or  tag like:

What is a cross-browser(old/new)-compliant method of issuing one or more functions in a manner like jQuery's ?

Q: Proper use of the IDisposable interface

I know from reading Microsoft documentation that the "primary" use of the  interface is to clean up unmanaged resources.

To me, "unmanaged" means things like database connections, sockets, window handles, etc.  But, I've seen code where the  method is implemented to free managed resources, which seems redundant to me, since the garbage collector should take care of that for you.

For example:

My question is, does this make the garbage collector free memory used by  any faster than it normally would?

Edit:  So far people have posted some good examples of using  to clean up unmanaged resources such as database connections and bitmaps.  But suppose that  in the above code contained a million strings, and you wanted to free that memory now, rather than waiting for the garbage collector.  Would the above code accomplish that?

Q: Break a previous commit into multiple commits

Without creating a branch and doing a bunch of funky work on a new branch, is it possible to break a single commit into a few different commits after it's been committed to the local repository?

Q: Hard reset of a single file

How do I discard the changes to a single file and overwrite it with a fresh HEAD copy? I want to do  to only a single file.

Q: Why should I use a pointer rather than the object itself?

I'm coming from a Java background and have started working with objects in C++. But one thing that occurred to me is that people often use pointers to objects rather than the objects themselves, for example this declaration:

rather than:

Or instead of using a function, let's say , like this:

we have to write:

But I can't figure out why should we do it this way. I would assume it has to do with efficiency and speed since we get direct access to the memory address. Am I right?

Q: What is the difference between Promises and Observables?

What is the difference between  and  in Angular?

An example on each would be helpful in understanding both the cases. In what scenario can we use each case?

Q: Is there a "previous sibling" selector?

The plus sign selector () is for selecting the next adjacent sibling.

Is there an equivalent for the previous sibling?

Q: Sort a Map by values

I need to sort a  on the values.

Since the values are not unique, I find myself converting the  into an , and sorting that array through array sort with a custom comparator that sorts on the value associated with the key.

Is there an easier way?

Q: What is the difference between Bower and npm?

What is the fundamental difference between  and ? Just want something plain and simple. I've seen some of my colleagues use  and  interchangeably in their projects.

Q: How do I check if an object has a specific property in JavaScript?

How do I check if an object has a specific property in JavaScript?

Consider:

Is there another way to do it?

Q: Changing image size in Markdown

I just got started with Markdown. I love it, but there is one thing bugging me: How can I change the size of an image using Markdown?

The documentation only gives the following suggestion for an image: 

If it is possible I would like the picture to also be centered. I am asking for general Markdown, not just how GitHub does it.

Q: Why does this code using random strings print "hello world"?

The following print statement would print "hello world".
Could anyone explain this?

And  looks like this:

Q: How do I remove a key from a JavaScript object?

Let's say we have an object with this format:

I wanted to do a function that removes by key:

Q: How to align checkboxes and their labels consistently cross-browsers

This is one of the minor CSS problems that plague me constantly.

How do folks around Stack Overflow vertically align  and their  consistently cross-browser?

Whenever I align them correctly in Safari (usually using  on the ), they're completely off in Firefox and IE.

Fix it in Firefox, and Safari and IE are inevitably messed up. I waste time on this every time I code a form.

Here's the standard code that I work with:







I usually use Eric Meyer's reset, so form elements are relatively clean of overrides. Looking forward to any tips or tricks that you have to offer!

Q: How do I revert a merge commit that has already been pushed to remote?

alone won't work. Apparently,  must be specified.

Q: HTTP status code for update and delete?

What status code should I set for  () and  (e.g. product successfully updated)?

Q: Relative imports for the billionth time

I've been here:

- PEP 328 – Imports: Multi-Line and Absolute/Relative

- Modules, Packages

- Python packages: relative imports

- Python relative import example code does not work

- Relative imports in Python 2.5

- Relative imports in Python

- Python: Disabling relative import

and plenty of URLs that I did not copy, some on SO, some on other sites, back when I thought I'd have the solution quickly.

The forever-recurring question is this: how do I solve this "Attempted relative import in non-package" message?

ImportError: attempted relative import with no known parent package

I built an exact replica of the package on pep-0328:

The imports were done from the console.

I did make functions named spam and eggs in their appropriate modules.  Naturally, it didn't work.  The answer is apparently in the 4th URL I listed, but it's all alumni to me. There was this response on one of the URLs I visited:

Relative imports use a module's name attribute to determine that module's position in the package hierarchy. If the module's name does not contain any package information (e.g. it is set to 'main') then relative imports are resolved as if the module were a top level module, regardless of where the module is actually located on the file system.

The above response looks promising, but it's all hieroglyphs to me. How do I make Python not return to me "Attempted relative import in non-package"? It has an answer that involves , supposedly.

Why does Python give that error message? What does by "non-package" mean? Why and how do you define a 'package'?

Q: Make a Bash alias that takes a parameter?

I used to use CShell (csh), which lets you make an alias that takes a parameter. The notation was something like

In Bash, this does not seem to work. Given that Bash has a multitude of useful features, I would assume that this one has been implemented but I am wondering how.

Q: Insert into ... values ( SELECT ... FROM ... )

I am trying to  a table using the input from another table. Although this is entirely feasible for many database engines, I always seem to struggle to remember the correct syntax for the  engine of the day (MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, Informix, and DB2).

Is there a silver-bullet syntax coming from an SQL standard (for example, SQL-92) that would allow me to insert the values without worrying about the underlying database?

Q: Command to collapse all sections of code?

In Visual Studio, is there a command to collapse/expand all the sections of code in a file?

Q: How to convert a string to lower case in Bash

Is there a way in Bash to convert a string into a lower case string?

For example, if I have:

I want to convert it to:

Q: Why does ++[[]][+[]]+[+[]] return the string "10"?

This is valid and returns the string  in JavaScript (more examples here):







Why? What is happening here?

Q: Why use getters and setters/accessors?

What's the advantage of using getters and setters - that only get and set - instead of simply using public fields for those variables?

If getters and setters are ever doing more than just the simple get/set, I can figure this one out very quickly, but I'm not 100% clear on how:

is any worse than:

Whereas the former takes a lot less boilerplate code.

Q: Relative imports in Python 3

I want to import a function from another file in the same directory.

Usually, one of the following works:

...but the other one gives me one of these errors:

Why is this?

Q: How do I write JSON data to a file?

How do I write JSON data stored in the dictionary  to a file?

This gives the error:

TypeError: must be string or buffer, not dict

Q: Calling the base constructor in C#

If I inherit from a base class and want to pass something from the constructor of the inherited class to the constructor of the base class, how do I do that?

For example, if I inherit from the Exception class I want to do something like this:

Basically what I want is to be able to pass the string message to the base Exception class.

Q: Use different Python version with virtualenv

How do I create a virtual environment for a specified version of Python?

Q: Extracting extension from filename

Is there a function to extract the extension from a filename?

Q: How to redirect one HTML page to another on load

Is it possible to set up a basic HTML page to redirect to another page on load?

Q: How can I import a module dynamically given the full path?

How do I load a Python module given its full path?

Note that the file can be anywhere in the filesystem where the user has access rights.

See also: How to import a module given its name as string?

Q: Is there a reason for C#'s reuse of the variable in a foreach?

When using lambda expressions or anonymous methods in C#, we have to be wary of the access to modified closure pitfall. For example:

Due to the modified closure, the above code will cause all of the  clauses on the query to be based on the final value of .

As explained here, this happens because the  variable declared in  loop above is translated like this in the compiler:

instead of like this:

As pointed out here, there are no performance advantages to declaring a variable outside the loop, and under normal circumstances the only reason I can think of for doing this is if you plan to use the variable outside the scope of the loop:

However variables defined in a  loop cannot be used outside the loop:

So the compiler declares the variable in a way that makes it highly prone to an error that is often difficult to find and debug, while producing no perceivable benefits.

Is there something you can do with  loops this way that you couldn't if they were compiled with an inner-scoped variable, or is this just an arbitrary choice that was made before anonymous methods and lambda expressions were available or common, and which hasn't been revised since then?

Q: 'map' function for objects (instead of arrays)

I have an object:

I am looking for a native method, similar to  that would be used as follows:

Does JavaScript have such a  function for objects? (I want this for Node.JS, so I don't care about cross-browser issues.)

Q: Insert results of a stored procedure into a temporary table

How do I do a ? Not  and without defining ?

 all data from  into  works fine.

I am trying the same, but using a  that returns data, is not quite the same.

Output message:

  

Msg 156, Level 15, State 1, Line 2
  Incorrect syntax near the keyword
  'exec'.

I have read several examples of creating a temporary table with the same structure as the output stored procedure, which works fine, but it would be nice to not supply any columns.

Q: What is the difference between const int*, const int * const, and int * const?

I always mess up how to use , , and  correctly. Is there a set of rules defining what you can and cannot do?

I want to know all the do's and all don'ts in terms of assignments, passing to the functions, etc.

Q: Sass Variable in CSS calc() function

I'm trying to use the  function in a Sass stylesheet, but I'm having some issues. Here's my code:

If I use the literal  instead of my  variable, I get exactly what I want. However, when I switch to the variable, this is the output:

How can I get Sass to recognize that it needs to replace the variable within the  function?

Q: What is a NullReferenceException, and how do I fix it?

I have some code and when it executes, it throws a , saying:

  

Object reference not set to an instance of an object.

What does this mean, and what can I do to fix this error?

Q: LF will be replaced by CRLF in git - What is that and is it important?

Gives the following warnings for many files:

The file will have its original line endings in your working directory.
warning: LF will be replaced by CRLF in .

What's the difference between LF and CRLF? What should I do about the warnings?

Q: Font scaling based on size of container

I'm having a hard time getting my head around font scaling.

I currently have a website with a body  of 100%. 100% of what though? This seems to compute out at 16 pixels.

I was under the impression that 100% would somehow refer to the size of the browser window, but apparently not because it's always 16 pixels whether the window is resized down to a mobile width or full-blown widescreen desktop.

How can I make the text on my site scale in relation to its container? I tried using , but this doesn't scale either.

My reasoning is that things like my menu become squished when you resize, so I need to reduce the   of  among other elements in relation to the width of the container. (For example, in the menu on a large desktop,  works perfectly. Move down to a tablet width and  is more appropriate.)

I'm aware I can add breakpoints, but I really want the text to scale as well as having extra breakpoints, otherwise, I'll end up with hundreds of breakpoints for every 100-pixels decrease in width to control the text.

Q: How to remove focus border (outline) around text/input boxes? (Chrome)

Can anyone explain how to remove the orange or blue border (outline) around text/input boxes? I think it only happens on Chrome to show that the input box is active. Here's the input CSS I'm using:

Q: How can I selectively merge or pick changes from another branch in Git?

I'm using Git on a new project that has two parallel -- but currently experimental -- development branches:

- : import of existing codebase plus a few modifications that I'm generally sure of

- : experimental branch #1

- : experimental branch #2

 and  represent two very different architectural approaches. Until I get further along I have no way of knowing which one (if either) will work. As I make progress in one branch I sometimes have edits that would be useful in the other branch and would like to merge just those.

What is the best way to merge selective changes from one development branch to another while leaving behind everything else?

Approaches I've considered:

- 

 followed by manual unstaging of a large number of edits that I don't want to make common between the branches.

- 

Manual copying of common files into a temporary directory followed by  to move to the other branch and then more manual copying out of the temporary directory into the working tree.

- 

A variation on the above. Abandon the  branches for now and use two additional local repositories for experimentation.  This makes the manual copying of files much more straightforward.

All three of these approaches seem tedious and error-prone.  I'm hoping there is a better approach; something akin to a filter path parameter that would make  more selective.

Q: How do I show my global Git configuration?

I'd like to show all configured Git sections.

I only found , and I'd like to output everything that's configured globally, not only the configured default editor.

Q: Multiple "order by" in LINQ

I have two tables,  and , and I want to get an ordered list by categoryID first and then by Name.

The movie table has three columns ID, Name and CategoryID.
The category table has two columns ID and Name.

I tried something like the following, but it didn't work.

Q: How can I Remove .DS_Store files from a Git repository?

How can I remove those annoying Mac OS X  files from a Git repository?

Q: How to loop through a plain JavaScript object with the objects as members

How can I loop through all members in a JavaScript object, including values that are objects?

For example, how could I loop through this (accessing the "your_name" and "your_message" for each)?

Q: How do I get time of a Python program's execution?

I have a command line program in Python that takes a while to finish. I want to know the exact time it takes to finish running.

I've looked at the  module, but it seems it's only for small snippets of code. I want to time the whole program.

Q: What is an undefined reference/unresolved external symbol error and how do I fix it?

What are undefined reference/unresolved external symbol errors? What are common causes, and how do I fix and prevent these errors?

Q: With arrays, why is it the case that a[5] == 5[a]?

As Joel points out in Stack Overflow podcast #34, in C Programming Language (aka: K & R), there is mention of this property of arrays in C: 

Joel says that it's because of pointer arithmetic but I still don't understand. Why does ?

Q: How to check if a string "StartsWith" another string?

How would I write the equivalent of C#'s  in JavaScript?

Note: This is an old question, and as pointed out in the comments ECMAScript 2015 (ES6) introduced the  method. However, at the time of writing this update (2015) browser support is far from complete.

Q: Getting Chrome to accept a self-signed localhost certificate

I have created a self-signed SSL certificate for the localhost CN. Firefox accepts this certificate after initially complaining about it, as expected. Chrome and Internet Explorer. However, they refuse to accept it, even after adding the certificate to the system certificate store under Trusted Roots. Even though the certificate is listed as correctly installed when I click "View certificate information" in Chrome's HTTPS popup, it still insists the certificate cannot be trusted.

What am I supposed to do to get Chrome to accept the certificate and stop complaining about it?

Q: Message "Support for password authentication was removed."

I got this error on my console when I tried to use :

remote: Support for password authentication was removed on August 13, 2021.

remote: Please see https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/getting-started-with-git/about-remote-repositories#cloning-with-https-urls for information on currently recommended modes of authentication.

fatal: Authentication failed for ...

It's very weird, because I just followed the documentation and created a token two weeks ago on GitHub. The token expires on Tue, Oct 26, 2021. Why has this been removed today?

Q: Find all tables containing column with specified name

Is it possible to query for table names which contain columns being

Q: How do I print to stderr in Python?

There are several ways to write to stderr:

What are the differences between these methods? Which method should be preferred?

Q: How to measure time taken by a function to execute

I need to get execution time in milliseconds.

Note: I originally asked this question back in 2008. The accepted answer then was to use  However, we can all agree now  that using the standard  API is more appropriate. I am therefore changing the accepted answer to this one.

Q: Random string generation with upper case letters and digits

How do I generate a string of size N, made of numbers and uppercase English letters such as:

- 6U1S75

- 4Z4UKK

- U911K4

Q: What does the [Flags] Enum Attribute mean in C#?

From time to time I see an enum like the following:

I don't understand what exactly the  attribute does.

Anyone have a good explanation or example they could post?

Q: How do I perform an IF...THEN in an SQL SELECT?

How do I perform an  in an  statement?

For example:

Q: Is JavaScript a pass-by-reference or pass-by-value language?

The primitive types (number, string, etc.) are passed by value. Still, objects are unknown because they can be both passed by value (in which case we consider that a variable holding an object is a reference to the object) and passed-by-reference (when we consider that the variable to the object holds the object itself).

Although it doesn't matter in the end, I want to know what is the correct way to present the arguments passing conventions. Is there an excerpt from the JavaScript specification, which defines what should be the semantics regarding this?

Q: What is ':-!!' in C?

I bumped into this strange macro code in :

What does  do?

Update: In recent times, the macro has been moved to

Q: How do I read from stdin?

How do I read from standard input ()?

Q: What is the best way of implementing a singleton in Python?

I have multiple classes which would become singletons (my use case is for a logger, but this is not important). I do not wish to clutter several classes with added gumph when I can simply inherit or decorate.

Best methods:

Method 1: A decorator

Pros

- Decorators are additive in a way that is often more intuitive than multiple inheritance.

Cons

- 

While objects created using  would be true singleton objects,  itself is a function, not a class, so you cannot call class methods from it. Also for

then  but 

Method 2: A base class

Pros

- It's a true class

Cons

- Multiple inheritance - eugh!  could be overwritten during inheritance from a second base class? One has to think more than is necessary.

Method 3: A metaclass

Pros

- It's a true class

- Auto-magically covers inheritance

- Uses  for its proper purpose (and made me aware of it)

Cons

- Are there any?

Method 4: decorator returning a class with the same name

Pros

- It's a true class

- Auto-magically covers inheritance

Cons

- Is there not an overhead for creating each new class? Here we are creating two classes for each class we wish to make a singleton. While this is fine in my case, I worry that this might not scale. Of course there is a matter of debate as to whether it aught to be too easy to scale this pattern...

- What is the point of the  attribute

- Can't call methods of the same name on base classes using  because they will recurse. This means you can't customize  and can't subclass a class that needs you to call up to .

Method 5: a module

a module file 

Pros

- Simple is better than complex

Cons

- Not lazily instantiated

This question is not for the discussion of whether or not the singleton design pattern is desirable, is an anti-pattern, or for any religious wars, but to discuss how this pattern is best implemented in Python in such a way that is most Pythonic. In this instance I define 'most Pythonic' to mean that it follows the 'principle of least astonishment'.

Q: You have not concluded your merge (MERGE_HEAD exists)

I made a branch called 'f' and did a checkout to master. When I tried the  command I got this message:

When I try the , it gave me the following:

What should I do?

A: (nvm maintainer here)

 if you want it pegged to that specific version.

You can also do  or .

Either way, you'll want to upgrade to the latest version of  (v0.39.2 as of this writing)

A: Looks like you haven't properly installed the header files and static libraries for python dev.  Use your package manager to install them system-wide.

For  (Ubuntu, Debian...):

For  (CentOS, RHEL...):

For  (Fedora...):

For  (openSUSE...):

For  (Alpine...):

For  (Cygwin...):

Important Note: python3-dev/devel does not automatically cover all minor versions of python3.

E.g If you are using python 3.11 you may need to install  / .

A: For API Level 30,  is to be used. An example of its usage can be found in the linked docs:

Old answer:

If you want the display dimensions in pixels you can use :

If you're not in an  you can get the default  via :

If you are in a fragment and want to acomplish this just use Activity.WindowManager (in Xamarin.Android) or getActivity().getWindowManager() (in java).

Before  was introduced (in API level 13), you could use the  and  methods that are now deprecated:

For the use case, you're describing, however, a margin/padding in the layout seems more appropriate.

Another way is: DisplayMetrics

A structure describing general information about a display, such as its size, density, and font scaling. To access the DisplayMetrics members, initialize an object like this:

We can use  to get information for:

"The absolute width of the display in pixels."

Example:

A: Remove existing  files from the repository:

Add this line:

to the file , which can be found at the top level of your repository (or create the file if it isn't there already). You can do this easily with this command in the top directory:

Then commit the file to the repo:

A: Interpolate:

For this case, border-box would also suffice:

A: CTRL + M + O will collapse all.

CTRL + M + L will expand all. (in VS 2013 - Toggle All outlining)

CTRL + M + P will expand all and disable outlining.

CTRL + M + M will collapse/expand the current section.

CTRL + M + A will collapse all even in Html files.

These controls are also in the context menu under Outlining.

Right click in editor -> Outlining to find these controls.
(After disabling outlining, use same steps to enable outlining.)

For outlining options: Go to Tools -> Options -> Text Editor -> C# -> Advanced -> Outlining for outlining options.

 Options -> Text Editor -> C# -> Advanced -> Outlining" />
 Outlining menu" />

A: Use the appropriately named method .

Note that 's argument is assumed to be a regular expression, so remember to escape special characters if necessary.

there are 12 characters with special meanings: the backslash , the caret , the dollar sign , the period or dot , the vertical bar or pipe symbol , the question mark , the asterisk or star , the plus sign , the opening parenthesis , the closing parenthesis , and the opening square bracket , the opening curly brace , These special characters are often called "metacharacters".

For instance, to split on a period/dot  (which means "any character" in regex), use either backslash  to escape the individual special character like so , or use character class  to represent literal character(s) like so , or use  to escape the entire string like so .

To test beforehand if the string contains certain character(s), just use .

Note, this does not take a regular expression. For that, use  instead.

If you'd like to retain the split character in the resulting parts, then make use of positive lookaround. In case you want to have the split character to end up in left hand side, use positive lookbehind by prefixing  group on the pattern.

In case you want to have the split character to end up in right hand side, use positive lookahead by prefixing  group on the pattern.

If you'd like to limit the number of resulting parts, then you can supply the desired number as 2nd argument of  method.

A: is a Python dictionary. It needs to be encoded as JSON before writing.

Use this for maximum compatibility (Python 2 and 3):

On a modern system (i.e. Python 3 and UTF-8 support), you can write a nicer file using:

See  documentation.

A: This outline is used to show that the element is focused (i.e. you can type in the input or press the button with Enter). You can remove it with outline property, though:

You may want to add some other way for users to know what element has keyboard focus though for usability.

Chrome will also apply highlighting to other elements such as DIV's used as modals. To prevent the highlight on those and all other elements as well, you can do:

⚠️ Accessibility warning

Please notice that removing outline from input is an accessibility bad practice. Users using only a keyboard will not be able to see which element they are focused on. More info at a11yproject

A: Just do:

or if you have a specific repo:

This will delete your previous commit(s) and push your current one.

It may not be proper, but if anyone stumbles upon this page, thought they might want a simple solution...

Short flag

Also note that  is short for , so

will also work.

A: Answer in one line:

or even shorter starting with Python 3.6 using :

A cryptographically more secure version: see this post

In details, with a clean function for further reuse:

How does it work ?

We import , a module that contains sequences of common ASCII characters, and , a module that deals with random generation.

 just concatenates the list of characters representing uppercase ASCII chars and digits:

Then we use a list comprehension to create a list of 'n' elements:

In the example above, we use  to create the list, but we don't in the  function so Python doesn't create the list in memory, but generates the elements on the fly, one by one (more about this here).

Instead of asking to create 'n' times the string , we will ask Python to create 'n' times a random character, picked from a sequence of characters:

Therefore  really is creating a sequence of  characters. Characters that are randomly picked from :

Then we just join them with an empty string so the sequence becomes a string:

A: Convert a number to a hexadecimal string with:

And reverse the process with:

A: To reset both the working copy of  and its state in the Git index to that of HEAD:

 means "treat every argument after this point as a filename". More details in this answer. Thanks to VonC for pointing this out.

A: This should work for you:

A: The  operator allows you to remove a property from an object.

The following examples all do the same thing.







If you're interested, read Understanding Delete for an in-depth explanation.

A: There are a few ways to accomplish that:

- Change your local branch and then push your changes

- Push the branch to remote with the new name while keeping the original name locally

Renaming local and remote

Renaming Only remote branch

Credit: ptim

Important note:

When you use the  (move), Git is also updating your tracking branch with the new name.

 is trying to update your remote section in your configuration file. It will rename the remote with the given name to the new name, but in your case, it did not find any, so the renaming failed.

But it will not do what you think; it will rename your local configuration remote name and not the remote branch. 

Note
Git servers might allow you to rename Git branches using the web interface or external programs (like Sourcetree, etc.), but you have to keep in mind that in Git all the work is done locally, so it's recommended to use the above commands to the work.

A: Introduction

The correct minimum set of headers that works across all mentioned clients (and proxies):

The  is per the HTTP 1.1 spec for clients and proxies (and implicitly required by some clients next to ). The  is per the HTTP 1.0 spec for prehistoric clients. The  is per the HTTP 1.0 and 1.1 specs for clients and proxies. In HTTP 1.1, the  takes precedence over , so it's after all for HTTP 1.0 proxies only.

If you don't care about IE6 and its broken caching when serving pages over HTTPS with only , then you could omit .

If you don't care about IE6 nor HTTP 1.0 clients (HTTP 1.1 was introduced in 1997), then you could omit .

If you don't care about HTTP 1.0 proxies either, then you could omit .

On the other hand, if the server auto-includes a valid  header, then you could theoretically omit  too and rely on  only.

But that may fail if e.g. the end-user manipulates the operating system date and the client software is relying on it.

Other  parameters such as  are irrelevant if the abovementioned  parameters are specified. The  header as included in most other answers here is only interesting if you actually want to cache the request, so you don't need to specify it at all.
How to set it?

Using PHP:

Using Java Servlet, or Node.js:

Using ASP.NET-MVC

Using ASP.NET Web API:

Using ASP.NET:

Using ASP.NET Core v3

Using ASP:

Using Ruby on Rails:

Using Python/Flask:

Using Python/Django:

Using Python/Pyramid:

Using Go:

Using Clojure (require Ring utils):

Using Apache  file:

Using Firebase Hosting :

Using HTML:

HTML meta tags vs HTTP response headers

Important to know is that when an HTML page is served over an HTTP connection, and a header is present in both the HTTP response headers and the HTML  tags, then the one specified in the HTTP response header will get precedence over the HTML meta tag. The HTML meta tag will only be used when the page is viewed from a local disk file system via a  URL. See also W3 HTML spec chapter 5.2.2. Take care with this when you don't specify them programmatically because the webserver can namely include some default values.

Generally, you'd better just not specify the HTML meta tags to avoid confusion by starters and rely on hard HTTP response headers. Moreover, specifically those  tags are invalid in HTML5. Only the  values listed in HTML5 specification are allowed.
Verifying the actual HTTP response headers

To verify the one and the other, you can see/debug them in the HTTP traffic monitor of the web browser's developer toolset. You can get there by pressing F12 in Chrome/Firefox23+/IE9+, and then opening the "Network" or "Net" tab panel, and then clicking the HTTP request of interest to uncover all detail about the HTTP request and response. The below screenshot is from Chrome:

I want to set those headers on file downloads too

First of all, this question and answer are targeted on "web pages" (HTML pages), not "file downloads" (PDF, zip, Excel, etc). You'd better have them cached and make use of some file version identifier somewhere in the URI path or query string to force a redownload on a changed file. When applying those no-cache headers on file downloads anyway, then beware of the IE7/8 bug when serving a file download over HTTPS instead of HTTP. For detail, see IE cannot download foo.jsf. IE was not able to open this internet site. The requested site is either unavailable or cannot be found.
It doesn't work anymore since Chrome 136!

As per Chromium issue 421837112 these headers are ignored by Chrome's so-called "Back/Forward Cache" which unexpectedly agressively caches these pages for back/forward button functionality for reasons mentioned here, in spite of the carefully crafted "Do Not Cache!" headers.

A work around is to set a short-living cookie with a constant name but a GUID value to create the illusion of an "authentication token". A max-age of 1 second is sufficient (tested in 136 and 137 so far). A Java Servlet based example can be found here.

A: The previous answers were accurate, but perhaps too terse.
I will try to add some examples.

First of all, the word "proxy" describes someone or something acting on behalf of someone else.

In the computer realm, we are talking about one server acting on the behalf of another computer.

For the purposes of accessibility, I will limit my discussion to web proxies - however, the idea of a proxy is not limited to websites.

FORWARD proxy

Most discussion of web proxies refers to the type of proxy known as a "forward proxy."

The proxy event, in this case, is that the "forward proxy" retrieves data from another web site on behalf of the original requestee.

A tale of 3 computers (part I)

For an example, I will list three computers connected to the internet.

- X = your computer, or "client" computer on the internet

- Y = the proxy web site, proxy.example.org

- Z = the web site you want to visit, www.example.net

Normally, one would connect directly from 

However, in some scenarios, it is better for  on behalf of ,
which chains as follows: .

Reasons why X would want to use a forward proxy server:

Here is a (very) partial list of uses of a forward proxy server:

- 

1) X is unable to access Z directly
because

- 

a) Someone with administrative authority over 's internet connection has decided to block all access to site .

- 

Examples:

- 

The Storm Worm virus is spreading by tricking people into visiting , so the system administrator has blocked access to the site to prevent users from inadvertently infecting themselves.

- 

Employees at a large company have been wasting too much time on , so management wants access blocked during business hours.

- 

A local elementary school disallows internet access to the  website.

- 

A government is unable to control the publishing of news, so it controls access to news instead, by blocking sites such as . See TOR or FreeNet.

- 

b) The administrator of  has blocked .

- 

Examples:

- 

The administrator of Z has noticed hacking attempts coming from X, so the administrator has decided to block X's IP address (and/or netrange).

- 

Z is a forum website.   is spamming the forum. Z blocks X.

REVERSE proxy

A tale of 3 computers (part II)

For this example, I will list three computers connected to the internet.

- X = your computer, or "client" computer on the internet

- Y = the reverse proxy web site, proxy.example.com

- Z = the web site you want to visit, www.example.net

Normally, one would connect directly from 

However, in some scenarios, it is better for the administrator of  to restrict or disallow direct access and force visitors to go through Y first.
So, as before, we have data being retrieved by  on behalf of , which chains as follows: .

What is different this time compared to a "forward proxy," is that this time the user  does not know he is accessing , because the user  only sees he is communicating with .
The server  is invisible to clients and only the reverse proxy  is visible externally. A reverse proxy requires no (proxy) configuration on the client side.

The client  thinks he is only communicating with  (), but the reality is that  forwarding all communication ( again).

Reasons why Z would want to set up a reverse proxy server:

- 1) Z wants to force all traffic to its web site to pass through Y first.

- a) Z has a large web site that millions of people want to see, but a single web server cannot handle all the traffic. So Z sets up many servers and puts a reverse proxy on the internet that will send users to the server closest to them when they try to visit Z. This is part of how the Content Distribution Network (CDN) concept works.

- Examples:

- Apple Trailers uses Akamai

- Jquery.com hosts its JavaScript files using CloudFront CDN (sample).

- etc.

- 2) The administrator of Z is worried about retaliation for content hosted on the server and does not want to expose the main server directly to the public.

- a) Owners of Spam brands such as "Canadian Pharmacy" appear to have thousands of servers, while in reality having most websites hosted on far fewer servers. Additionally, abuse complaints about the spam will only shut down the public servers, not the main server.

In the above scenarios,  has the ability to choose .

Links to topics from the post:

Content Delivery Network

- Lists of CDNs

- http://www.mytestbox.com/miscellaneous/content-delivery-networks-cdn-list/

- http://blog.streamingmedia.com/the_business_of_online_vi/2008/01/updated-list-of.html

Forward proxy software (server side)

- PHP-Proxy

- cgi-proxy

- phproxy  (discontinued)

- glype

- Internet censorship wiki: List of Web Proxies

- squid  (apparently, can also work as a reverse proxy)

Reverse proxy software for HTTP (server side)

- Apache mod_proxy (can also work as a forward proxy for HTTP)

- nginx  (used on hulu.com, spam sites, etc.)

- HAProxy

- Caddy Webserver

- lighthttpd

- perlbal (written for livejournal)

- portfusion

- pound

- varnish cache (written by a FreeBSD kernel guru)

- repose

Reverse proxy software for TCP (server side)

- balance

- delegate

- pen

- portfusion

- pure load balancer (web site defunct)

- python director

See also:

- Wikipedia - Content Delivery Network

- Wikipedia - Category:Reverse_proxy

- Wikipedia - Load Balancing

- Wikipedia - Scalability

A: The problem is your previous pull failed to merge automatically and went to conflict state. And the conflict wasn't resolved properly before the next pull.

- 

Undo the merge and pull again.

To undo a merge:

  [Since git version 1.7.4]

  [prior git versions]

- 

Resolve the conflict.

- 

Don't forget to add and commit the merge.

- 

 now should work fine.

A: There are various ways:
POSIX standard
tr

AWK

Non-POSIX

You may run into portability issues with the following examples:
Bash 4.0

sed

Perl

Bash

Note: Your mileage may vary on this one. It doesn't work for me (GNU Bash version 4.2.46 and 4.0.33 (and the same behaviourin 2.05b.0, but  is not implemented)), even with using . Unsetting that  causes  to match OK, but inside case,  are weirdly incorrectly matched by . Bash is confused by the double negative ("unsetting nocasematch")! :-)

A: The simplest way in Python:

This assumes that your program takes at least a tenth of second to run.

Prints:

A: Say your bug fix branch is called  and you want to merge it into :

This will take all the commits from the  branch, squash them into 1 commit, and merge it with your  branch.

Explanation:

Switches to your  branch.

Takes all commits from the  branch and groups it for a 1 commit with your current branch.

(no merge commit appears; you could resolve conflicts manually before following commit)

Creates a single commit from the merged changes.

Omitting the  parameter lets you modify a draft commit message containing every message from your squashed commits before finalizing your commit.

A: The point of Dispose is to free unmanaged resources. It needs to be done at some point, otherwise they will never be cleaned up. The garbage collector doesn't know how to call  on a variable of type , it doesn't know whether or not it needs to call .

Note: What is an unmanaged resource? If you found it in the Microsoft .NET Framework: it's managed. If you went poking around MSDN yourself, it's unmanaged. Anything you've used P/Invoke calls to get outside of the nice comfy world of everything available to you in the .NET Framework is unmanaged – and you're now responsible for cleaning it up.

The object that you've created needs to expose some method, that the outside world can call, in order to clean up unmanaged resources. The method can be named whatever you like:

or

But instead there is a standardized name for this method:

There was even an interface created, , that has just that one method:

So you make your object expose the  interface, and that way you promise that you've written that single method to clean up your unmanaged resources:

And you're done.
Except you can do better

What if your object has allocated a 250MB System.Drawing.Bitmap (i.e. the .NET managed Bitmap class) as some sort of frame buffer? Sure, this is a managed .NET object, and the garbage collector will free it. But do you really want to leave 250MB of memory just sitting there – waiting for the garbage collector to eventually come along and free it? What if there's an open database connection? Surely we don't want that connection sitting open, waiting for the GC to finalize the object.

If the user has called  (meaning they no longer plan to use the object) why not get rid of those wasteful bitmaps and database connections?

So now we will:

- get rid of unmanaged resources (because we have to), and

- get rid of managed resources (because we want to be helpful)

So let's update our  method to get rid of those managed objects:

And all is good.
Except you can do better!

What if the person forgot to call  on your object? Then they would leak some unmanaged resources!

Note: They won't leak managed resources, because eventually the garbage collector is going to run, on a background thread, and free the memory associated with any unused objects. This will include your object, and any managed objects you use (e.g. the  and the ).

If the person forgot to call , we can still save their bacon! We still have a way to call it for them: when the garbage collector finally gets around to freeing (i.e. finalizing) our object.

Note: The garbage collector will eventually free all managed objects.
When it does, it calls the 
method on the object. The GC doesn't know, or
care, about your Dispose method.
That was just a name we chose for
a method we call when we want to get
rid of unmanaged stuff.

The destruction of our object by the Garbage collector is the perfect time to free those pesky unmanaged resources. We do this by overriding the  method.

Note: In C#, you don't explicitly override the  method.
You write a method that looks like a C++ destructor, and the
compiler takes that to be your implementation of the  method:

But there's a bug in that code. You see, the garbage collector runs on a background thread; you don't know the order in which two objects are destroyed. It is entirely possible that in your  code, the managed object you're trying to get rid of (because you wanted to be helpful) is no longer there:

So what you need is a way for  to tell  that it should not touch any managed resources (because they might not be there anymore), while still freeing unmanaged resources.

The standard pattern to do this is to have  and  both call a third(!) method; where you pass a Boolean saying if you're calling it from  (as opposed to ), meaning it's safe to free managed resources.

This internal method could be given some arbitrary name like "CoreDispose", or "MyInternalDispose", but is tradition to call it :

But a more helpful parameter name might be:

And you change your implementation of the  method to:

and your finalizer to:

Note: If your object descends from an object that implements , then don't forget to call their base Dispose method when you override Dispose:

And all is good.
Except you can do better!

If the user calls  on your object, then everything has been cleaned up. Later on, when the garbage collector comes along and calls Finalize, it will then call  again.

Not only is this wasteful, but if your object has junk references to objects you already disposed of from the last call to , you'll try to dispose them again!

You'll notice in my code I was careful to remove references to objects that I've disposed, so I don't try to call  on a junk object reference. But that didn't stop a subtle bug from creeping in.

When the user calls : the handle CursorFileBitmapIconServiceHandle is destroyed. Later when the garbage collector runs, it will try to destroy the same handle again.

The way you fix this is tell the garbage collector that it doesn't need to bother finalizing the object – its resources have already been cleaned up, and no more work is needed. You do this by calling  in the  method:

Now that the user has called , we have:

- freed unmanaged resources

- freed managed resources

There's no point in the GC running the finalizer – everything's taken care of.
Couldn't I use Finalize to cleanup unmanaged resources?

The documentation for  says:

The Finalize method is used to perform cleanup operations on unmanaged resources held by the current object before the object is destroyed.

But the MSDN documentation also says, for :

Performs application-defined tasks associated with freeing, releasing, or resetting unmanaged resources.

So which is it? Which one is the place for me to cleanup unmanaged resources? The answer is:

It's your choice! But choose .

You certainly could place your unmanaged cleanup in the finalizer:

The problem with that is you have no idea when the garbage collector will get around to finalizing your object. Your un-managed, un-needed, un-used native resources will stick around until the garbage collector eventually runs. Then it will call your finalizer method; cleaning up unmanaged resources. The documentation of Object.Finalize points this out:

The exact time when the finalizer executes is undefined. To ensure deterministic release of resources for instances of your class, implement a Close method or provide a  implementation.

This is the virtue of using  to cleanup unmanaged resources; you get to know, and control, when unmanaged resource are cleaned up. Their destruction is "deterministic".

To answer your original question: Why not release memory now, rather than for when the GC decides to do it? I have a facial recognition software that needs to get rid of 530 MB of internal images now, since they're no longer needed. When we don't: the machine grinds to a swapping halt.
Bonus Reading

For anyone who likes the style of this answer (explaining the why, so the how becomes obvious), I suggest you read Chapter One of Don Box's Essential COM:

- Direct link: Chapter 1 sample by Pearson Publishing

- magnet: 84bf0b960936d677190a2be355858e80ef7542c0

In 35 pages he explains the problems of using binary objects, and invents COM before your eyes. Once you realize the why of COM, the remaining 300 pages are obvious, and just detail Microsoft's implementation.

I think every programmer who has ever dealt with objects or COM should, at the very least, read the first chapter. It is the best explanation of anything ever.
Extra Bonus Reading

When everything you know is wrong archiveby Eric Lippert

It is therefore very difficult indeed to write a correct finalizer,
and the best advice I can give you is to not try.

A: Bash alias does not directly accept parameters. You will have to create a function.

 does not accept parameters but a function can be called just like an alias. For example:

By the way, Bash functions defined in your  and other files are available as commands within your shell. So for instance you can call the earlier function like this

A: Read it backwards (as driven by Clockwise/Spiral Rule):

-  - pointer to int

-  - pointer to const int

-  - const pointer to int

-  - const pointer to const int

Now the first  can be on either side of the type so:

-  == 

-  == 

If you want to go really crazy you can do things like this:

-  - pointer to pointer to int

-  - a const pointer to a pointer to an int

-  - a pointer to a const pointer to an int

-  - a pointer to a pointer to a const int

-  - a const pointer to a const pointer to an int

- ...

If you're ever uncertain, you can use a tool like cdecl+ to convert declarations to prose automatically.

To make sure we are clear on the meaning of :

 is a variable pointer to a constant integer. This lets you change what you point to but not the value that you point to. Most often this is seen with C-style strings where you have a pointer to a . You may change which string you point to but you can't change the content of these strings. This is important when the string itself is in the data segment of a program and shouldn't be changed.

 is a constant or fixed pointer to a value that can be changed. This is like a reference without the extra syntactic sugar. Because of this fact, usually you would use a reference where you would use a  pointer unless you need to allow  pointers.

A: For a PUT request: HTTP 200, HTTP 204 should imply "resource updated successfully". HTTP 201 if the PUT request created a new resource.

For a DELETE request: HTTP 200 or HTTP 204 should imply "resource deleted successfully".

HTTP 202 can also be returned by either operation and would imply that the instruction was accepted by the server, but not fully applied yet. It's possible that the operation fails later, so the client shouldn't fully assume that it was  success.

A client that receives a status code it doesn't recognize, but it's starting with 2 should treat it as a 200 OK.

PUT

If an existing resource is modified, either the 200 (OK) or 204 (No Content) response codes SHOULD be sent to indicate successful completion of the request.

DELETE

A successful response SHOULD be 200 (OK) if the response includes an entity describing the status, 202 (Accepted) if the action has not yet been enacted, or 204 (No Content) if the action has been enacted but the response does not include an entity.

Source: IETF: RFC-9110 Method Definitions

HTTP 200 OK: Standard response for successful HTTP
requests. The actual response will
depend on the request method used.

HTTP 204 No Content: The server successfully processed the request, but is not returning any content

Source: List of HTTP status codes: 2xx Success

A: You can use:

or look at your  file. The local configuration will be in your repository's  file.

Use:

to see where that setting is defined (global, user, repo, etc...)

A: Using  performance.now():

In  it is required to import the  class

importing performance

Using console.time: (living standard)

Note: 
The string being passed to the  and  methods must match
(for the timer to finish as expected).

 documentations:

- MDN documentation

- Node.js documentation

A: Search Tables:

Search Tables and Views:

A: What is the cause?
Bottom Line

You are trying to use something that is  (or  in VB.NET). This means you either set it to , or you never set it to anything at all.

Like anything else,  gets passed around. If it is  in method "A", it could be that method "B" passed a  to method "A".

 can have different meanings:

- Object variables that are uninitialized and hence point to nothing. In this case, if you access members of such objects, it causes a .

- The developer is using  intentionally to indicate there is no meaningful value available. Note that C# has the concept of nullable datatypes for variables (like database tables can have nullable fields) - you can assign  to them to indicate there is no value stored in it, for example  (which is a shortcut for ) where the question mark indicates it is allowed to store  in variable . You can check that either with  or with . Nullable variables, like  in this example, allow to access the value via  explicitly, or just as normal via . 
Note that accessing it via  throws an  instead of a  if  is  - you should do the check beforehand, i.e. if you have another non-nullable variable  then you should do assignments like  or shorter .

The rest of this article goes into more detail and shows mistakes that many programmers often make which can lead to a .
More Specifically

The  throwing a  always means the same thing: you are trying to use a reference, and the reference is not initialized (or it was once initialized, but is no longer initialized).

This means the reference is , and you cannot access members (such as methods) through a  reference. The simplest case:

This will throw a  at the second line because you can't call the instance method  on a  reference pointing to .
Debugging

How do you find the source of a ? Apart from looking at the exception itself, which will be thrown exactly at the location where it occurs, the general rules of debugging in Visual Studio apply: place strategic breakpoints and inspect your variables, either by hovering the mouse over their names, opening a (Quick)Watch window or using the various debugging panels like Locals and Autos.

If you want to find out where the reference is or isn't set, right-click its name and select "Find All References". You can then place a breakpoint at every found location and run your program with the debugger attached. Every time the debugger breaks on such a breakpoint, you need to determine whether you expect the reference to be non-null, inspect the variable, and verify that it points to an instance when you expect it to.

By following the program flow this way, you can find the location where the instance should not be null, and why it isn't properly set.
Examples

Some common scenarios where the exception can be thrown:
Generic

If ref1 or ref2 or ref3 is null, then you'll get a . If you want to solve the problem, then find out which one is null by rewriting the expression to its simpler equivalent:

Specifically, in , the  could be null, or the  property could be null, or the  property could be null.
Indirect

If you want to avoid the child (Person) null reference, you could initialize it in the parent (Book) object's constructor.
Nested Object Initializers

The same applies to nested object initializers:

This translates to:

While the  keyword is used, it only creates a new instance of , but not a new instance of , so the  property is still .
Nested Collection Initializers

The nested collection  behave the same:

This translates to:

The  only creates an instance of , but the  collection is still . The collection  syntax does not create a collection
for , it only translates to the  statements.
Array

Array Elements

Jagged Arrays

Collection/List/Dictionary

Range Variable (Indirect/Deferred)

Events (C#)

(Note: The VB.NET compiler inserts null checks for event usage, so it's not necessary to check events for  in VB.NET.)
Bad Naming Conventions:

If you named fields differently from locals, you might have realized that you never initialized the field.

This can be solved by following the convention to prefix fields with an underscore:

ASP.NET Page Life cycle:

ASP.NET Session Values

ASP.NET MVC empty view models

If the exception occurs when referencing a property of  in an , you need to understand that the  gets set in your action method, when you  a view. When you return an empty model (or model property) from your controller, the exception occurs when the views access it:

WPF Control Creation Order and Events

 controls are created during the call to  in the order they appear in the visual tree.  A  will be raised in the case of early-created controls with event handlers, etc., that fire during  which reference late-created controls.

For example:

Here  is created before . If  attempts to reference , it will not yet have been created.

Changing the order of the declarations in the  (i.e., listing  before , ignoring issues of design philosophy) would at least resolve the  here.
Cast with 

This doesn't throw an  but returns a  when the cast fails (and when  is itself null). So be aware of that.
LINQ  and 

The plain versions  and  throw exceptions when there is nothing. The "OrDefault" versions return  in that case. So be aware of that.
foreach

 throws when you try to iterate on a  collection. Usually caused by unexpected  result from methods that return collections.

More realistic example - select nodes from XML document. Will throw if nodes are not found but initial debugging shows that all properties valid:

Ways to Avoid
Explicitly check for  and ignore  values.

If you expect the reference sometimes to be , you can check for it being  before accessing instance members:

Explicitly check for  and provide a default value.

Methods you call expecting an instance can return , for example when the object being sought cannot be found. You can choose to return a default value when this is the case:

Explicitly check for  from method calls and throw a custom exception.

You can also throw a custom exception, only to catch it in the calling code:

Use  if a value should never be , to catch the problem earlier than the exception occurs.

When you know during development that a method could, but never should return , you can use  to break as soon as possible when it does occur:

Though this check will not end up in your release build, causing it to throw the  again when  at runtime in release mode.
Use  for  value types to provide a default value when they are .

Use the null coalescing operator:  [C#] or  [VB].

The shorthand to providing a default value when a  is encountered:

Use the null condition operator:  or  for arrays (available in C# 6 and VB.NET 14):

This is also sometimes called the safe navigation or Elvis (after its shape) operator. If the expression on the left side of the operator is null, then the right side will not be evaluated, and null is returned instead. That means cases like this:

If the person does not have a title, this will throw an exception because it is trying to call  on a property with a null value.

In  and below, this can be guarded with:

Now the title variable will be null instead of throwing an exception. C# 6 introduces a shorter syntax for this:

This will result in the title variable being , and the call to  is not made if  is .

Of course, you still have to check  for  or use the null condition operator together with the null coalescing operator () to supply a default value:

Likewise, for arrays you can use  as follows:

This will do the following: If  is , the expression returns  and you can safely check it. If it contains an array, it will do the same as:
 and returns the ith element.
Use null context (available in C# 8):

Introduced in , null contexts and nullable reference types perform static analysis on variables and provide a compiler warning if a value can be potentially  or have been set to . The nullable reference types allow types to be explicitly allowed to be .

The nullable annotation context and nullable warning context can be set for a project using the  element in your  file. This element configures how the compiler interprets the nullability of types and what warnings are generated. Valid settings are:

- : The nullable annotation context is enabled. The nullable warning context is enabled. Variables of a reference type, string, for example, are non-nullable. All nullability warnings are enabled.

- : The nullable annotation context is disabled. The nullable warning context is disabled. Variables of a reference type are oblivious, just like earlier versions of C#. All nullability warnings are disabled.

- : The nullable annotation context is enabled. The nullable warning context is safeonly. Variables of a reference type are non-nullable. All safety nullability warnings are enabled.

- : The nullable annotation context is disabled. The nullable warning context is enabled. Variables of a reference type are oblivious. All nullability warnings are enabled.

- : The nullable annotation context is disabled. The nullable warning context is safeonly.
Variables of a reference type are oblivious. All safety nullability warnings are enabled.

A nullable reference type is noted using the same syntax as nullable value types: a  is appended to the type of the variable.
Special techniques for debugging and fixing null derefs in iterators

 supports "iterator blocks" (called "generators" in some other popular languages).  can be particularly tricky to debug in iterator blocks because of deferred execution:

If  results in  then  will throw. Now, you might think that the right thing to do is this:

Why is this wrong?  Because the iterator block does not actually run until the !  The call to  simply returns an object which when iterated will run the iterator block.

By writing a  check like this you prevent the , but you move the  to the point of the iteration, not to the point of the call, and that is very confusing to debug.

The correct fix is:

That is, make a private helper method that has the iterator block logic and a public surface method that does the  check and returns the iterator. Now when  is called, the  check happens immediately, and then  executes when the sequence is iterated.

If you examine the reference source for  to Objects you will see that this technique is used throughout. It is slightly more clunky to write, but it makes debugging nullity errors much easier. Optimize your code for the convenience of the caller, not the convenience of the author.
A note on null dereferences in unsafe code

 has an "unsafe" mode which is, as the name implies, extremely dangerous because the normal safety mechanisms which provide memory safety and type safety are not enforced. You should not be writing unsafe code unless you have a thorough and deep understanding of how memory works.

In unsafe mode, you should be aware of two important facts:

- dereferencing a null pointer produces the same exception as dereferencing a null reference

- dereferencing an invalid non-null pointer can produce that exception in some circumstances

To understand why that is, it helps to understand how .NET produces  in the first place. (These details apply to .NET running on Windows; other operating systems use similar mechanisms.)

Memory is virtualized in ; each process gets a virtual memory space of many "pages" of memory that are tracked by the operating system. Each page of memory has flags set on it that determine how it may be used: read from, written to, executed, and so on. The lowest page is marked as "produce an error if ever used in any way".

Both a null pointer and a null reference in  are internally represented as the number zero, and so any attempt to dereference it into its corresponding memory storage causes the operating system to produce an error. The .NET runtime then detects this error and turns it into the .

That's why dereferencing both a null pointer and a null reference produces the same exception.

What about the second point? Dereferencing any invalid pointer that falls in the lowest page of virtual memory causes the same operating system error, and thereby the same exception.

Why does this make sense?  Well, suppose we have a struct containing two ints, and an unmanaged pointer equal to null. If we attempt to dereference the second int in the struct, the  will not attempt to access the storage at location zero; it will access the storage at location four. But logically this is a null dereference because we are getting to that address via the null.

If you are working with unsafe code and you get a , just be aware that the offending pointer need not be null. It can be any location in the lowest page, and this exception will be produced.

A: Type  and then press  to quit .

UPDATE: 19-OCT-2018

As of PostgreSQL 11, the keywords "" and "" in the PostgreSQL command-line interface have been included to help make it easier to leave the command-line tool.

A: Use :

Unlike most manual string-splitting attempts,  will correctly treat  as having no extension instead of having extension , and it will treat  as having no extension instead of having extension :

A: The simplest thing to do in the absence of a framework that does all the cross-browser compatibility for you is to just put a call to your code at the end of the body.  This is faster to execute than an  handler because this waits only for the DOM to be ready, not for all images to load.  And, this works in every browser.

For modern browsers (anything from IE9 and newer and any version of Chrome, Firefox or Safari), if you want to be able to implement a jQuery like  method that you can call from anywhere (without worrying about where the calling script is positioned), you can just use something like this:

Usage:

If you need full cross browser compatibility (including old versions of IE) and you don't want to wait for , then you probably should go look at how a framework like jQuery implements its  method.  It's fairly involved depending upon the capabilities of the browser.

To give you a little idea what jQuery does (which will work wherever the script tag is placed).

If supported, it tries the standard:

with a fallback to:

or for older versions of IE, it uses:

with a fallback to:

And, there are some work-arounds in the IE code path that I don't quite follow, but it looks like it has something to do with frames.

Here is a full substitute for jQuery's  written in plain javascript:

The latest version of the code is shared publicly on GitHub at https://github.com/jfriend00/docReady

Usage:

This has been tested in:

Working implementation and test bed: http://jsfiddle.net/jfriend00/YfD3C/

Here's a summary of how it works:

- Create an IIFE (immediately invoked function expression) so we can have non-public state variables.

- Declare a public function 

- When  is called, check if the ready handler has already fired.  If so, just schedule the newly added callback to fire right after this thread of JS finishes with .

- If the ready handler has not already fired, then add this new callback to the list of callbacks to be called later.

- Check if the document is already ready.  If so, execute all ready handlers.

- If we haven't installed event listeners yet to know when the document becomes ready, then install them now.

- If  exists, then install event handlers using  for both  and  events.  The "load" is a backup event for safety and should not be needed.

- If  doesn't exist, then install event handlers using  for  and  events.

- In the  event, check to see if the  and if so, call a function to fire all the ready handlers.

- In all the other event handlers, call a function to fire all the ready handlers.

- In the function to call all the ready handlers, check a state variable to see if we've already fired.  If we have, do nothing.  If we haven't yet been called, then loop through the array of ready functions and call each one in the order they were added.  Set a flag to indicate these have all been called so they are never executed more than once.

- Clear the function array so any closures they might be using can be freed.

Handlers registered with  are guaranteed to be fired in the order they were registered.

If you call  after the document is already ready, the callback will be scheduled to execute as soon as the current thread of execution completes using .  This allows the calling code to always assume they are async callbacks that will be called later, even if later is as soon as the current thread of JS finishes and it preserves calling order.

A: See the most recent stash:

See an arbitrary stash:

From the  manpages:

  

By default, the command shows the diffstat, but it will accept any
  format known to git diff (e.g., git stash show -p stash@{1} to view
  the second most recent stash in patch form).

A: Here is a shorter way of achieving it:

OR

You can also check .

A: Try :

A: will do it.

First, start with a clean working directory:  should show no pending modifications, deletions, or additions.

Now, you have to decide which commit(s) you want to split.
A) Splitting the most recent commit

To split apart your most recent commit, first:

Now commit the pieces individually in the usual way, producing as many commits as you need.
B) Splitting a commit farther back

This requires rebasing, that is, rewriting history. To specify the correct commit, you have several choices:

- 

If it is three commits back, then

where  is how many commits back it is.

- 

If it is farther back in the tree than you want to count, then

where  is the SHA1 of the commit you want to split up.

- 

If you want to rebase the entire current branch simply do:

- 

If you are on a different branch (e.g., a feature branch) that you want to merge into :

When you get the rebase edit screen, find the commit you want to break apart.  At the beginning of that line, replace  with  ( for short).  Save the buffer and exit.  Rebase will now stop just after the commit you want to edit.  Then:

Commit the pieces individually in the usual way, producing as many commits as you need.

Finally

If you want to preserve authorship

If you want to preserve the authorship of commits, and possibly the date as well, see copy author and date from other commit, but _not_ the message

A: From the relevant Git documentation:

  

Patterns which are specific to a particular repository but which do not need to be shared with other related repositories (e.g., auxiliary files that live inside the repository but are specific to one user's workflow) should go into the  file.

The  file has the same format as any  file. Another option is to set  to the name of a file containing global patterns.

Note, if you already have unstaged changes you must run the following after editing your ignore-patterns:

Note on : This is a notation used all over the git manual simply to indicate the path to the git repository. If the environment variable is set, then it will override the location of whichever repo you're in, which probably isn't what you want.

Edit: Another way is to use:

Reverse it by:

A: The  attribute should be used whenever the enumerable represents a collection of possible values, rather than a single value. Such collections are often used with bitwise operators, for example:

Note that the  attribute doesn't enable this by itself - all it does is allow a nice representation by the  method:

It is also important to note that  does not automatically make the enum values powers of two. If you omit the numeric values, the enum will not work as one might expect in bitwise operations, because by default the values start with 0 and increment. 

Incorrect declaration:

The values, if declared this way, will be Yellow = 0, Green = 1, Red = 2, Blue = 3. This will render it useless as flags.

Here's an example of a correct declaration:

To retrieve the distinct values in your property, one can do this:

or prior to .NET 4:

Under the covers

This works because you used powers of two in your enumeration. Under the covers, your enumeration values look like this in binary ones and zeros:

Similarly, after you've set your property AllowedColors to Red, Green and Blue using the binary bitwise OR  operator, AllowedColors looks like this:

So when you retrieve the value you are actually performing bitwise AND  on the values:

The None = 0 value

And regarding the use of  in your enumeration, quoting from MSDN:

  

Use None as the name of the flag enumerated constant whose value is zero. You cannot use the None enumerated constant in a bitwise AND operation to test for a flag because the result is always zero. However, you can perform a logical, not a bitwise, comparison between the numeric value and the None enumerated constant to determine whether any bits in the numeric value are set. 

You can find more info about the flags attribute and its usage at msdn and designing flags at msdn

A: There is no native  to the  object, but how about this:







But you could easily iterate over an object using :







Update

A lot of people are mentioning that the previous methods do not return a new object, but rather operate on the object itself. For that matter I wanted to add another solution that returns a new object and leaves the original object as it is:







 reduces an array to a single value by somewhat merging the previous value with the current. The chain is initialized by an empty object . On every iteration a new key of  is added with twice the key as the value.
Update

With new ES6 features, there is a more elegant way to express .

A: That would have to be:

Or, similar:

You're looking for something that contains "m" somewhere (SQL's '' operator is equivalent to regular expressions' ''), not something that has "m" anchored to the beginning of the string.

Note: MongoDB uses regular expressions (see the documentation) which are more powerful than "LIKE" in SQL. With regular expressions you can create any pattern that you imagine.

For more information on regular expressions, refer to Regular expressions (MDN).

A: A common cause is cloning using the default (HTTPS) instead of SSH. You can correct this by going to your repository, clicking "Clone or download", then clicking the "Use SSH" button above the URL field and updating the URL of your origin remote like this:

You can check if you have added the remote as HTTPS or SSH using:

This is documented at GitHub: Switching remote URLs from HTTPS to SSH.

A: Here's what happens when a browser loads a website with a  tag on it:

- Fetch the HTML page (e.g. index.html)

- Begin parsing the HTML

- The parser encounters a  tag referencing an external script file. (*)

- The browser requests the script file. Meanwhile, the parser blocks and stops parsing the other HTML on your page.

- After some time the script is downloaded and subsequently executed.

- The parser continues parsing the rest of the HTML document.

(*) without attribute  or  and not of  module.

Step #4 causes a bad user experience. Your website basically stops loading until you've downloaded all scripts. If there's one thing that users hate it's waiting for a website to load.
Why does this even happen?

Any script can insert its own HTML via  or other DOM manipulations. This implies that the parser has to wait until the script has been downloaded and executed before it can safely parse the rest of the document. After all, the script could have inserted its own HTML in the document.

However, most JavaScript developers no longer manipulate the DOM while the document is loading. Instead, they wait until the document has been loaded before modifying it. For example:

JavaScript:

Because your browser does not know my-script.js isn't going to modify the document until it has been downloaded and executed, the parser stops parsing.
Antiquated recommendation

The old approach to solving this problem was to put  tags at the bottom of your , because this ensures the parser isn't blocked until the very end.

This approach has its own problem: the browser cannot start downloading the scripts until the entire document is parsed. For larger websites with large scripts and stylesheets, being able to download the script as soon as possible is very important for performance. If your website doesn't load within 2 seconds, people will go to another website.

In an optimal solution, the browser would start downloading your scripts as soon as possible, while at the same time parsing the rest of your document.
The modern approach

Today, browsers support the  and  attributes on scripts. These attributes tell the browser it's safe to continue parsing while the scripts are being downloaded.
async

Scripts with the async attribute are executed asynchronously. This means the script is executed as soon as it's downloaded, without blocking the browser in the meantime.
This implies that it's possible that script 2 is downloaded and executed before script 1.

According to http://caniuse.com/#feat=script-async, 97.78% of all browsers support this.
defer

Scripts with the defer attribute are executed in order (i.e. first script 1, then script 2). This also does not block the browser.

Unlike async scripts, defer scripts are only executed after the entire document has been loaded.

(To learn more and see some really helpful visual representations of the differences between async, defer and normal scripts check the first two links at the references section of this answer)
modules

Scripts that include  will be treated as JavaScript modules and are loaded like red scripts.

Conclusion

The current state-of-the-art is to put scripts in the  tag and use the  or  attributes. This allows your scripts to be downloaded ASAP without blocking your browser.

The good thing is that your website should still load correctly on the 2% of browsers that do not support these attributes while speeding up the other 98%.
References

- async vs defer attributes

- Efficiently load JavaScript with defer and async

- Remove Render-Blocking JavaScript

- Async, Defer, Modules: A Visual Cheatsheet

- : type attribute

A: Try using:

Note: Place it in the  section.

Additionally for older browsers if you add a quick link in case it doesn't refresh correctly:

Will appear as

Redirect

This will still allow you to get to where you're going with an additional click.

A: Instead of using the  syntax, you can construct a new RegExp object:

You can dynamically create regex objects this way. Then you will do:

For older browser or node

A: Update: I've posted an improved version of this answer to the Visualizing branch topology in Git question, since it's far more appropriate there.  Leaving this answer for historical (& rep, I'll admit) reasons, though I'm really tempted to just delete it.

My two cents: I have two aliases I normally throw in my  file:

/ looks like this:

and  looks like this:

(Note: There now exists much more applicable answers to this question, such as fracz's, Jubobs', or Harry Lee's!)

A: Script vs. Module

Here's an explanation.  The short version is that there is a big difference between directly running a Python file, and importing that file from somewhere else.  Just knowing what directory a file is in does not determine what package Python thinks it is in.  That depends, additionally, on how you load the file into Python (by running or by importing).

There are two ways to load a Python file: as the top-level script, or as a
module.  A file is loaded as the top-level script if you execute it directly, for instance by typing  on the command line.  It is loaded as a module when an  statement is encountered inside some other file.  There can only be one top-level script at a time; the top-level script is the Python file you ran to start things off.

Naming

When a file is loaded, it is given a name (which is stored in its  attribute).  If it was loaded as the top-level script, its name is .  If it was loaded as a module, its name is the filename, preceded by the names of any packages/subpackages of which it is a part, separated by dots.

So for instance in your example:

if you imported  (note: imported, not directly executed), its name would be .  If you imported , its name would be .  However, if you directly run  from the command line, its name will instead be , and if you directly run  from the command line, its name will be .  When a module is run as the top-level script, it loses its normal name and its name is instead .

Accessing a module NOT through its containing package

There is an additional wrinkle: the module's name depends on whether it was imported "directly" from the directory it is in or imported via a package.  This only makes a difference if you run Python in a directory, and try to import a file in that same directory (or a subdirectory of it).  For instance, if you start the Python interpreter in the directory  and then do , the name of  will just be , and not .  This is because Python adds the current directory to its search path when the interpreter is entered interactively; if it finds the to-be-imported module in the current directory, it will not know that that directory is part of a package, and the package information will not become part of the module's name.

A special case is if you run the interpreter interactively (e.g., just type  and start entering Python code on the fly).  In this case, the name of that interactive session is .

Now here is the crucial thing for your error message: if a module's name has no dots, it is not considered to be part of a package.  It doesn't matter where the file actually is on disk.  All that matters is what its name is, and its name depends on how you loaded it.

Now look at the quote you included in your question:

Relative imports use a module's name attribute to determine that module's position in the package hierarchy. If the module's name does not contain any package information (e.g. it is set to 'main') then relative imports are resolved as if the module were a top-level module, regardless of where the module is actually located on the file system.

Relative imports...

Relative imports use the module's name to determine where it is in a package.  When you use a relative import like , the dots indicate to step up some number of levels in the package hierarchy.  For instance, if your current module's name is , then  would mean .  For a  to work, the module's name must have at least as many dots as there are in the  statement.

... are only relative in a package

However, if your module's name is , it is not considered to be in a package.  Its name has no dots, and therefore you cannot use  statements inside it.  If you try to do so, you will get the "relative-import in non-package" error.

Scripts can't import relative

What you probably did is you tried to run  or the like from the command line.  When you did this, its name was set to , which means that relative imports within it will fail, because its name does not reveal that it is in a package. Note that this will also happen if you run Python from the same directory where a module is, and then try to import that module, because, as described above, Python will find the module in the current directory "too early" without realizing it is part of a package.

Also remember that when you run the interactive interpreter, the "name" of that interactive session is always .  Thus you cannot do relative imports directly from an interactive session.  Relative imports are only for use within module files.

Two solutions:

- 

If you really do want to run  directly, but you still want it to be considered part of a package, you can do .  The  tells Python to load it as a module, not as the top-level script.

- 

Or perhaps you don't actually want to run , you just want to run some other script, say , that uses functions inside .  If that is the case, put  somewhere else – not inside the  directory – and run it.  If inside  you do things like , it will work fine.

Notes

- 

For either of these solutions, the package directory ( in your example) must be accessible from the Python module search path ().  If it is not, you will not be able to use anything in the package reliably at all.

- 

Since Python 2.6, the module's "name" for package-resolution purposes is determined not just by its  attributes but also by the  attribute.  That's why I'm avoiding using the explicit symbol  to refer to the module's "name".  Since Python 2.6 a module's "name" is effectively , or just  if  is .)

A: I had same question, and after reading all answers here I definitely stay with SINGULAR, reasons:

Reason 1 (Concept). You can think of bag containing apples like "AppleBag", it doesn't matter if contains 0, 1 or a million apples, it is always the same bag. Tables are just that, containers, the table name must describe what it contains, not how much data it contains. Additionally, the plural concept is more about a spoken language one (actually to determine whether there is one or more).

Reason 2. (Convenience). it is easier come out with singular names, than with plural ones. Objects can have irregular plurals or not plural at all, but will always have a singular one (with few exceptions like News).

- Customer

- Order

- User

- Status

- News

Reason 3. (Aesthetic and Order). Specially in master-detail scenarios, this reads better, aligns better by name, and have more logical order (Master first, Detail second):

- 1.Order

- 2.OrderDetail

Compared to:

- 1.OrderDetails

- 2.Orders

Reason 4 (Simplicity). Put all together, Table Names, Primary Keys, Relationships, Entity Classes... is better to be aware of only one name (singular) instead of two (singular class, plural table, singular field, singular-plural master-detail...)

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Once you know you are dealing with "Customer", you can be sure you will use the same word for all of your database interaction needs.

Reason 5. (Globalization). The world is getting smaller, you may have a team of different nationalities, not everybody has English as a native language. It would be easier for a non-native English language programmer to think of "Repository" than of "Repositories", or "Status" instead of "Statuses". Having singular names can lead to fewer errors caused by typos, save time by not having to think "is it Child or Children?", hence improving productivity.

Reason 6. (Why not?). It can even save you writing time, save you disk space, and even make your computer keyboard last longer!

- 

- 

You have saved 3 letters, 3 bytes, 3 extra keyboard hits :)

And finally, you can name those ones messing up with reserved names like:

- User > LoginUser, AppUser, SystemUser, CMSUser,...

Or use the infamous square brackets [User]

A: In Unix systems the end of a line is represented with a line feed (LF). In windows a line is represented with a carriage return (CR) and a line feed (LF) thus (CRLF). when you get code from git that was uploaded from a unix system they will only have an LF.

If you are a single developer working on a windows machine, and you don't care that git automatically replaces LFs to CRLFs, you can turn this warning off by typing the following in the git command line

If you want to make an intelligent decision how git should handle this, read the documentation 

Here is a snippet

  

Formatting and Whitespace
  
  

Formatting and whitespace issues are some of the more frustrating and
  subtle problems that many developers encounter when collaborating,
  especially cross-platform. It’s very easy for patches or other
  collaborated work to introduce subtle whitespace changes because
  editors silently introduce them, and if your files ever touch a
  Windows system, their line endings might be replaced. Git has a few
  configuration options to help with these issues.

  
  

If you’re programming on Windows and working with people who are not
  (or vice-versa), you’ll probably run into line-ending issues at some
  point. This is because Windows uses both a carriage-return character
  and a linefeed character for newlines in its files, whereas Mac and
  Linux systems use only the linefeed character. This is a subtle but
  incredibly annoying fact of cross-platform work; many editors on
  Windows silently replace existing LF-style line endings with CRLF, or
  insert both line-ending characters when the user hits the enter key.
  
  

Git can handle this by auto-converting CRLF line endings into LF when
  you add a file to the index, and vice versa when it checks out code
  onto your filesystem. You can turn on this functionality with the
  core.autocrlf setting. If you’re on a Windows machine, set it to true
  – this converts LF endings into CRLF when you check out code:

  
  

If you’re on a Linux or Mac system that uses LF line endings, then you
  don’t want Git to automatically convert them when you check out files;
  however, if a file with CRLF endings accidentally gets introduced,
  then you may want Git to fix it. You can tell Git to convert CRLF to
  LF on commit but not the other way around by setting core.autocrlf to
  input:

  
  

This setup should leave you with CRLF endings in Windows checkouts,
  but LF endings on Mac and Linux systems and in the repository.
  
  

If you’re a Windows programmer doing a Windows-only project, then you
  can turn off this functionality, recording the carriage returns in the
  repository by setting the config value to false:

A: What you should know about 

 (aka "the context") is a special keyword inside each function and its value only depends on how the function was called, not how/when/where it was defined. It is not affected by lexical scopes like other variables (except for arrow functions, see below). Here are some examples:

To learn more about , have a look at the MDN documentation.

How to refer to the correct 
Use arrow functions

ECMAScript 6 introduced arrow functions, which can be thought of as lambda functions. They don't have their own  binding. Instead,  is looked up in scope just like a normal variable. That means you don't have to call . That's not the only special behavior they have, please refer to the MDN documentation for more information.

Don't use 

You actually don't want to access  in particular, but the object it refers to. That's why an easy solution is to simply create a new variable that also refers to that object. The variable can have any name, but common ones are  and .

Since  is a normal variable, it obeys lexical scope rules and is accessible inside the callback. This also has the advantage that you can access the  value of the callback itself.
Explicitly set  of the callback - part 1

It might look like you have no control over the value of  because its value is set automatically, but that is actually not the case.

Every function has the method  [docs], which returns a new function with  bound to a value. The function has exactly the same behavior as the one you called  on, only that  was set by you. No matter how or when that function is called,  will always refer to the passed value.

In this case, we are binding the callback's  to the value of 's .

Note: When a binding context for jQuery, use  [docs] instead. The reason to do this is so that you don't need to store the reference to the function when unbinding an event callback. jQuery handles that internally.
Set  of the callback - part 2

Some functions/methods which accept callbacks also accept a value to which the callback's  should refer to. This is basically the same as binding it yourself, but the function/method does it for you.  [docs] is such a method. Its signature is:

The first argument is the callback and the second argument is the value  should refer to. Here is a contrived example:

Note: Whether or not you can pass a value for  is usually mentioned in the documentation of that function/method. For example, jQuery's  method [docs] describes an option called :

This object will be made the context of all Ajax-related callbacks.

Common problem: Using object methods as callbacks/event handlers

Another common manifestation of this problem is when an object method is used as callback/event handler. Functions are first-class citizens in JavaScript and the term "method" is just a colloquial term for a function that is a value of an object property. But that function doesn't have a specific link to its "containing" object.

Consider the following example:

The function  is assigned as click event handler, but if the  is clicked, the value logged will be , because inside the event handler,  refers to the , not the instance of .

As already mentioned at the beginning, what  refers to depends on how the function is called, not how it is defined.

If the code was like the following, it might be more obvious that the function doesn't have an implicit reference to the object:

The solution is the same as mentioned above: If available, use  to explicitly bind  to a specific value

or explicitly call the function as a "method" of the object, by using an anonymous function as callback / event handler and assign the object () to another variable:

or use an arrow function:

A: All are different.

-  takes a type name (which you specify at compile time).

-  gets the runtime type of an instance.

-  returns true if an instance is in the inheritance tree.

Example

  

What about ? Is it also resolved at compile time?

Yes. T is always what the type of the expression is. Remember, a generic method is basically a whole bunch of methods with the appropriate type. Example:

A: Editor's note: user agent detection is not a recommended technique for modern web apps. See the comments below this answer for confirmation of this fact. It is suggested to use one of the other answers using feature detection and/or media queries.

Instead of using jQuery you can use simple JavaScript to detect it:

Or you can combine them both to make it more accessible through jQuery...

Now  will return  for all above devices

Note:  removed on jQuery v1.9.1. But you can use this by using jQuery migration plugin Code

A more thorough version:

A: It does 5 things:

- It creates a new object.  The type of this object is simply object.

- It sets this new object's internal, inaccessible,  (i.e. ) property to be the constructor function's external, accessible,  object (every function object automatically has a  property).

- It makes the  variable point to the newly created object.

- It executes the constructor function, using the newly created object whenever  is mentioned.

- It returns the newly created object, unless the constructor function returns a non- object reference. In this case, that object reference is returned instead.

Note: constructor function refers to the function after the  keyword, as in

Once this is done, if an undefined property of the new object is requested, the script will check the object's  object for the property instead. This is how you can get something similar to traditional class inheritance in JavaScript.

The most difficult part about this is point number 2.  Every object (including functions) has this internal property called . It can only be set at object creation time, either with , with , or based on the literal (functions default to , numbers to , etc.). It can only be read with . There is no other way to get or set this value.

Functions, in addition to the hidden  property, also have a property called prototype, and it is this that you can access, and modify, to provide inherited properties and methods for the objects you make.

Here is an example:

It's like class inheritance because now, any objects you make using  will also appear to have inherited the 'b' property.

If you want something like a subclass, then you do this:

I read a ton of rubbish on this subject before finally finding this page, where this is explained very well with nice diagrams.

A: In , the  option specifies the parent number. This is needed because a merge commit has more than one parent, and Git does not know automatically which parent was the mainline, and which parent was the branch you want to un-merge.

When you view a merge commit in the output of , you will see its parents listed on the line that begins with  (the second line in this case):

In this situation,  will get you the tree as it was in , and  will reinstate the tree as it was in .

To better understand what you're about to revert do , in this case:

and

However, it's very important you realize that in doing so

"...declares that you will never want the tree changes brought in by the merge. As a result, later merges will only bring in tree changes introduced by commits that are not ancestors of the previously reverted merge. This may or may not be what you want. See the revert-a-faulty-merge How-To for more details." (git-merge man page).

A: From 2021-08-13, GitHub is no longer accepting account passwords when authenticating Git operations. You need to add a PAT (Personal Access Token) instead, and you can follow the below method to add a PAT on your system.

Create Personal Access Token on GitHub

From your GitHub account, go to Settings → Developer Settings → Personal Access Token → Tokens (classic) → Generate New Token (Give your password) → Fillup the form → click Generate token → Copy the generated Token, it will be something like 

Now follow the below method based on your machine:

For Windows OS ⤴

Go to Credential Manager from Control Panel → Windows Credentials → find  → Edit → On Password replace with with your GitHub Personal Access Token → You are Done

If you don’t find  → Click on Add a generic credential → Internet address will be  and you need to type in your username and password will be your GitHub Personal Access Token → Click Ok and you are done

For macOS ⤴

Click on the Spotlight icon (magnifying glass) on the right side of the menu bar. Type Keychain access then press the Enter key to launch the app → In Keychain Access, search for  → Find the internet password entry for  → Edit or delete the entry accordingly → You are done

For a Linux-based OS ⤴

For Linux, you need to configure the local GIT client with a username
and email address,

Once GIT is configured, we can begin using it to access GitHub.
Example:

Now cache the given record in your computer to remembers the token:

If needed, anytime you can delete the cache record by:

Now try to pull with  to verify

Linux/Debian
(Clone as follows):

For JetBrains IDEs

You can consult the relevant help page for your IDE of choice (IntelliJ, PhpStorm, WebStorm, GoLand, PyCharm, Rider, RustRover) for more information on logging in. Below is a short snippet of the IntelliJ help page:

Register an existing account with a token

- Press ⌘Сmd0/CtrlAlt0 (your actual key-binds may differ), to open settings and then select Version Control | GitHub.

- Click the Add button.

- Select Log In with Token.

- The token can then be inserted into the following text-field:

- Click Add Account

A: If we split it up, the mess is equal to:

In JavaScript, it is true that .  converts something into a number, and in this case it will come down to  or  (see specification details below).

Therefore, we can simplify it ( has precendence over ):

Because  means: get the first element from , it is true that:

 returns the inner array (). Due to references it's wrong to say , but let's call the inner array  to avoid the wrong notation.

 before its operand means “increment by one and return the incremented result”. So  is equivalent to  (or ).

Again, we can simplify the mess into something more legible. Let's substitute  back for :

Before  can coerce the array into the number , it needs to be coerced into a string first, which is , again. Finally,  is added, which results in .

- 

- 

- 

Let's simplify it even more:

Also, this is true in JavaScript: , because it's joining an array with one element. Joining will concatenate the elements separated by . With one element, you can deduce that this logic will result in the first element itself.

In this case,  sees two operands: a number and an array. It’s now trying to coerce the two into the same type. First, the array is coerced into the string , next, the number is coerced into a string (). Number  String  String.

Specification details for :

This is quite a maze, but to do , first it is being converted to a string because that's what  says:

  

11.4.6 Unary + Operator
  
  

The unary + operator converts its operand to Number type.
  
  

The production UnaryExpression : + UnaryExpression is evaluated as follows:
  
  
  
- 

Let expr be the result of evaluating UnaryExpression.
  
- 

Return ToNumber(GetValue(expr)).
  

 says:

  

Object
  
  

Apply the following steps:
  
  
  
- 

Let primValue be ToPrimitive(input argument, hint String).
  
- 

Return ToString(primValue).
  

 says:

  

Object
  
  

Return a default value for the Object. The default value of an object is retrieved by calling the [[DefaultValue]] internal method of the object, passing the optional hint PreferredType. The behaviour of the [[DefaultValue]] internal method is defined by this specification for all native ECMAScript objects in 8.12.8.

 says:

  

8.12.8 [[DefaultValue]] (hint)
  
  

When the [[DefaultValue]] internal method of O is called with hint String, the following steps are taken:
  
  
  
- 

Let toString be the result of calling the [[Get]] internal method of object O with argument "toString".
  
- 

If IsCallable(toString) is true then,
  
  
  

a. Let str be the result of calling the [[Call]] internal method of toString, with O as the this value and an empty argument list.
  
  

b. If str is a primitive value, return str.

The  of an array says:

  

15.4.4.2 Array.prototype.toString ( )
  
  

When the toString method is called, the following steps are taken:
  
  
  
- 

Let array be the result of calling ToObject on the this value.
  
- 

Let func be the result of calling the [[Get]] internal method of array with argument "join".
  
- 

If IsCallable(func) is false, then let func be the standard built-in method Object.prototype.toString (15.2.4.2).
  
- 

Return the result of calling the [[Call]] internal method of func providing array as the this value and an empty arguments list.
  

So  comes down to , because .

Again, the  is defined as:

  

11.4.6 Unary + Operator
  
  

The unary + operator converts its operand to Number type.
  
  

The production UnaryExpression : + UnaryExpression is evaluated as follows:
  
  
  
- 

Let expr be the result of evaluating UnaryExpression.
  
- 

Return ToNumber(GetValue(expr)).
  

 is defined for  as:

  

The MV of StringNumericLiteral ::: [empty] is 0.

So , and thus .

A: Modify your constructor to the following so that it calls the base class constructor properly:

Note that a constructor is not something that you can call anytime within a method. That's the reason you're getting errors in your call in the constructor body.

A: Many of the answers here are great, but for those that just want a simple one-line-to-the-point answer without having to set up aliases or anything extra, here it is:

Not everyone would be doing a  all the time, but when you need it just remember:

"A Dog" = git log --all --decorate --oneline --graph

If you enter

at the command prompt once, you can use

from that prompt even if you close and reopen it.

A: The C standard defines the  operator as follows:

Therefore  will evaluate to:

and  will evaluate to:

 is a pointer to the first element of the array.  is the value that's 5 elements further from , which is the same as , and from elementary school math we know those are equal (addition is commutative).

A: Try:

This is standard ANSI SQL and should work on any DBMS

It definitely works for:

- Oracle

- MS SQL Server

- MySQL

- Postgres

- SQLite v3

- Teradata

- DB2

- Sybase

- Vertica

- HSQLDB

- H2

- AWS RedShift

- SAP HANA

- Google Spanner

A: A widely available method to get user input at a shell prompt is the  command. Here is a demonstration:

Another method, pointed out by Steven Huwig, is Bash's  command. Here is the same example using :

With  you don't need to sanitize the input – it displays the available choices, and you type a number corresponding to your choice. It also loops automatically, so there's no need for a  loop to retry if they give invalid input. If you want to allow more flexible input (accepting the words of the options, rather than just their number), you can alter it like this:

Also, Léa Gris demonstrated a way to make the request language agnostic in her answer. Adapting my first example to better serve multiple languages might look like this:

Obviously other communication strings remain untranslated here (Install, Answer) which would need to be addressed in a more fully completed translation, but even a partial translation would be helpful in many cases.

Finally, please check out the excellent answer by F. Hauri.

A: When you make a POST request, you have to encode the data that forms the body of the request in some way.

HTML forms provide three methods of encoding.

-  (the default)

- 

- 

Work was being done on adding , but that has been abandoned.

(Other encodings are possible with HTTP requests generated using other means than an HTML form submission. JSON is a common format for use with web services and some still use SOAP.)

The specifics of the formats don't matter to most developers. The important points are:

- Never use .

When you are writing client-side code:

- use  when your form includes any  elements

- otherwise you can use  or  but  will be more efficient

When you are writing server-side code:

- Use a prewritten form handling library

Most (such as Perl's  or the one exposed by PHP's  superglobal) will take care of the differences for you. Don't bother trying to parse the raw input received by the server.

Sometimes you will find a library that can't handle both formats.  Node.js's most popular library for handling form data is body-parser which cannot handle multipart requests (but has documentation that recommends some alternatives which can).

If you are writing (or debugging) a library for parsing or generating the raw data, then you need to start worrying about the format. You might also want to know about it for interest's sake.

 is more or less the same as a query string on the end of the URL.

 is significantly more complicated but it allows entire files to be included in the data. An example of the result can be found in the HTML 4 specification.

 is introduced by HTML 5 and is useful only for debugging — from the spec: They are not reliably interpretable by computer — and I'd argue that the others combined with tools (like the Network Panel in the developer tools of most browsers) are better for that).

A: Promise

A  handles a single event when an async operation completes or fails.

Note: There are  libraries out there that support cancellation, but ES6  doesn't so far.

Observable

An  is like a  (in many languages) and allows you to pass zero or more events where the callback is called for each event.

Often  is preferred over  because it provides the features of  and more. With  it doesn't matter if you want to handle 0, 1, or multiple events. You can utilize the same API in each case.

 also has the advantage over  to be cancellable. If the result of an HTTP request to a server or some other expensive async operation isn't needed anymore, the  of an  allows you to cancel the subscription, while a  will eventually call the success or failed callback even when you don't need the notification or the result it provides anymore.

While a  starts immediately, an  only starts if you subscribe to it. This is why Observables are called lazy.

Observable provides operators like , , , ... similar to an array

There are also powerful operators like , or , ... that are often quite handy.
A list of operators shipped with rxjs

Lazy execution allows you to build up a chain of operators before the observable is executed by subscribing, to do a more declarative kind of programming.

A: Maybe I missed the question, but why not:

To override something (or pass extra args), do this:

That way you could pass dict of error messages to the second param, and get to it later with .

In Python 2, you have to use this slightly more complex form of :

A: NOTE: For Python 3.3+, see The Aelfinn's answer below.

Use the  (or short ) option when creating a virtualenv instance to specify the Python executable you want to use, e.g.:

A: The  statement is the closest to IF in SQL and is supported on all versions of SQL Server.

You only need to use the  operator if you want the result as a Boolean value. If you are happy with an , this works:

 statements can be embedded in other  statements and even included in aggregates.

SQL Server Denali (SQL Server 2012) adds the IIF statement which is also available in access (pointed out by Martin Smith):

A: It's interesting in JavaScript. Consider this example:







This produces the output:

- If  was not a reference at all, then changing  would have no effect on the  outside of the function.

- If the argument was a proper reference, then everything would have changed.  would be , and  would read . Instead,  stays  and  remains ".

Instead, the situation is that the item passed in is passed by value. But the item that is passed by value is itself a reference.
Technically, this is called call-by-sharing.

In practical terms, this means that if you change the parameter itself (as with  and ), that won't affect the item that was fed into the parameter. But if you change the internals of the parameter, that will propagate back up (as with ).

A: All package managers have many downsides. You just have to pick which you can live with.
History

npm started out managing node.js modules (that's why packages go into  by default), but it works for the front-end too when combined with Browserify or webpack.

Bower is created solely for the front-end and is optimized with that in mind.
Size of repo

npm is much, much larger than bower, including general purpose JavaScript (like  for country information or  for sorting functions that is usable on the front end or the back end).

Bower has a much smaller amount of packages.
Handling of styles etc

Bower includes styles etc.

npm is focused on JavaScript. Styles are either downloaded separately or required by something like  or .
Dependency handling

The biggest difference is that npm does nested dependencies (but is flat by default) while Bower requires a flat dependency tree (puts the burden of dependency resolution on the user).

A nested dependency tree means that your dependencies can have their own dependencies which can have their own, and so on. This allows for two modules to require different versions of the same dependency and still work. Note since npm v3, the dependency tree will be flat by default (saving space) and only nest where needed, e.g., if two dependencies need their own version of Underscore.

Some projects use both: they use Bower for front-end packages and npm for developer tools like Yeoman, Grunt, Gulp, JSHint, CoffeeScript, etc.

Resources

- Nested Dependencies - Insight into why node_modules works the way it does

A: Virtual destructors are useful when you might potentially delete an instance of a derived class through a pointer to base class:

Here, you'll notice that I didn't declare Base's destructor to be . Now, let's have a look at the following snippet:

Since Base's destructor is not  and  is a  pointing to a  object,  has undefined behaviour:

  

[In ], if the static type of the
  object to be deleted is different from its dynamic type, the static
  type shall be a base class of the dynamic type of the object to be
  deleted and the static type shall have a virtual destructor or the
  behavior is undefined.

In most implementations, the call to the destructor will be resolved like any non-virtual code, meaning that the destructor of the base class will be called but not the one of the derived class, resulting in a resources leak.

To sum up, always make base classes' destructors  when they're meant to be manipulated polymorphically.

If you want to prevent the deletion of an instance through a base class pointer, you can make the base class destructor protected and nonvirtual; by doing so, the compiler won't let you call  on a base class pointer.

You can learn more about virtuality and virtual base class destructor in this article from Herb Sutter.

A: You could just use some HTML in your Markdown:

Or via  attribute (not supported by GitHub)

Or you could use a custom CSS file as described in this answer on Markdown and image alignment

CSS in another file:

A: You may want to use the  function (which adds to the end of the element):

Alternatively you could use the  function (which adds to the beginning of the element):

Example:

A: Container queries are now probably the best option, depending on your use case, with support in all of the major browsers. See the level of support here: https://caniuse.com/css-container-queries

It's now very easy to control:

Please check out the MDN article on Container Queries for more detail: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Container_Queries

More examples of what you can accomplish: https://css-tricks.com/a-few-times-container-size-queries-would-have-helped-me-out/

Old answer

If the container is not the body, CSS Tricks covers all of your options in Fitting Text to a Container.

If the container is the body, what you are looking for is Viewport-percentage lengths:

The viewport-percentage lengths are relative to the size of the initial containing block. When the height or width of the initial containing block is changed, they are scaled accordingly. However, when the value of overflow on the root element is , any scroll bars are assumed not to exist.

The values are:

-  (% of the viewport width)

-  (% of the viewport height)

-  (1% of the viewport size in the direction of the root element's inline axis)

-  (1% of the viewport size in the direction of the root element's block axis)

-  (the smaller of  or )

-  (the larger or  or )

1 v* is equal to 1% of the initial containing block.

Using it looks like this:

As you can see, when the viewport width increases, so do the , without needing to use media queries.

These values are a sizing unit, just like  or , so they can be used to size other elements as well, such as width, margin, or padding.

Browser support is pretty good, but you'll likely need a fallback, such as:

Check out the support statistics: https://caniuse.com/viewport-units.

Also, check out CSS Tricks for a broader look: Viewport Sized Typography

Here's a nice article about setting minimum/maximum sizes and exercising a bit more control over the sizes: Precise control over responsive typography

And here's an example of setting your size using  so that the text fills the viewport: https://codepen.io/CrocoDillon/pen/wvdrBY

Also, please view this article, which uses a technique dubbed 'molten leading' to adjust the line-height as well: Molten Leading in CSS

A: You can use ECMAScript 6's  method. It's supported in all major browsers. However, if you want to use it in a browser that is unsupported you'll want to use a shim/polyfill to add it on those browsers. Creating an implementation that complies with all the details laid out in the spec is a little complicated. If you want a faithful shim, use either:

- Matthias Bynens's  shim, or

- The es6-shim, which shims as much of the ES6 spec as possible, including .

Once you've shimmed the method (or if you're only supporting browsers and JavaScript engines that already have it), you can use it like this:

A: It's very unfortunate that you see dynamic allocation so often. That just shows how many bad C++ programmers there are.

In a sense, you have two questions bundled up into one. The first is when should we use dynamic allocation (using )? The second is when should we use pointers?

The important take-home message is that you should always use the appropriate tool for the job. In almost all situations, there is something more appropriate and safer than performing manual dynamic allocation and/or using raw pointers.

Dynamic allocation

In your question, you've demonstrated two ways of creating an object. The main difference is the storage duration of the object. When doing  within a block, the object is created with automatic storage duration, which means it will be destroyed automatically when it goes out of scope. When you do , the object has dynamic storage duration, which means it stays alive until you explicitly  it. You should only use dynamic storage duration when you need it. 
That is, you should always prefer creating objects with automatic storage duration when you can.

The main two situations in which you might require dynamic allocation:

- You need the object to outlive the current scope - that specific object at that specific memory location, not a copy of it. If you're okay with copying/moving the object (most of the time you should be), you should prefer an automatic object.

- You need to allocate a lot of memory, which may easily fill up the stack. It would be nice if we didn't have to concern ourselves with this (most of the time you shouldn't have to), as it's really outside the purview of C++, but unfortunately, we have to deal with the reality of the systems we're developing for.

When you do absolutely require dynamic allocation, you should encapsulate it in a smart pointer or some other type that performs RAII (like the standard containers). Smart pointers provide ownership semantics of dynamically allocated objects. Take a look at  and , for example. If you use them appropriately, you can almost entirely avoid performing your own memory management (see the Rule of Zero).

Pointers

However, there are other more general uses for raw pointers beyond dynamic allocation, but most have alternatives that you should prefer. As before, always prefer the alternatives unless you really need pointers.

- 

You need reference semantics. Sometimes you want to pass an object using a pointer (regardless of how it was allocated) because you want the function to which you're passing it to have access that that specific object (not a copy of it). However, in most situations, you should prefer reference types to pointers, because this is specifically what they're designed for. Note this is not necessarily about extending the lifetime of the object beyond the current scope, as in situation 1 above. As before, if you're okay with passing a copy of the object, you don't need reference semantics.

- 

You need polymorphism. You can only call functions polymorphically (that is, according to the dynamic type of an object) through a pointer or reference to the object. If that's the behavior you need, then you need to use pointers or references. Again, references should be preferred.

- 

You want to represent that an object is optional by allowing a  to be passed when the object is being omitted. If it's an argument, you should prefer to use default arguments or function overloads. Otherwise, you should preferably use a type that encapsulates this behavior, such as  (introduced in C++17 - with earlier C++ standards, use ).

- 

You want to decouple compilation units to improve compilation time. The useful property of a pointer is that you only require a forward declaration of the pointed-to type (to actually use the object, you'll need a definition). This allows you to decouple parts of your compilation process, which may significantly improve compilation time. See the Pimpl idiom.

- 

You need to interface with a C library or a C-style library. At this point, you're forced to use raw pointers. The best thing you can do is make sure you only let your raw pointers loose at the last possible moment. You can get a raw pointer from a smart pointer, for example, by using its  member function. If a library performs some allocation for you which it expects you to deallocate via a handle, you can often wrap the handle up in a smart pointer with a custom deleter that will deallocate the object appropriately.

A: Let's have  in  module defined at . Below is how we import  from this module

For Python 3.5+ use (docs):

For Python 3.3 and 3.4 use:

(Although this has been deprecated in Python 3.4.)

For Python 2 use:

There are equivalent convenience functions for compiled Python files and DLLs.

See also http://bugs.python.org/issue21436.

A: This is, in effect, a way to check whether the expression e can be evaluated to be 0, and if not, to fail the build.

The macro is somewhat misnamed; it should be something more like , rather than . (There have been occasional discussions about whether this is a confusing name.)

You should read the expression like this:

- 

: Compute expression .

- 

: Logically negate twice:  if ; otherwise .

- 

: Numerically negate the expression from step 2:  if it was ; otherwise .

- 

: If it was zero, then we declare a struct with an anonymous integer bitfield that has width zero. Everything is fine and we proceed as normal.

- 

: On the other hand, if it isn't zero, then it will be some negative number. Declaring any bitfield with negative width is a compilation error.

So we'll either wind up with a bitfield that has width 0 in a struct, which is fine, or a bitfield with negative width, which is a compilation error. Then we take  that field, so we get a  with the appropriate width (which will be zero in the case where  is zero).

Some people have asked: Why not just use an ?

keithmo's answer here has a good response:

  

These macros implement a compile-time test, while assert() is a run-time test.

Exactly right. You don't want to detect problems in your kernel at runtime that could have been caught earlier! It's a critical piece of the operating system. To whatever extent problems can be detected at compile time, so much the better.

A: The last two are identical; "atomic" is the default behavior (note that it is not actually a keyword; it is specified only by the absence of  --  was added as a keyword in recent versions of llvm/clang).

Assuming that you are @synthesizing the method implementations, atomic vs. non-atomic changes the generated code.  If you are writing your own setter/getters, atomic/nonatomic/retain/assign/copy are merely advisory.  (Note:  @synthesize is now the default behavior in recent versions of LLVM.  There is also no need to declare instance variables;  they will be synthesized automatically, too, and will have an  prepended to their name to prevent accidental direct access).

With "atomic", the synthesized setter/getter will ensure that a whole value is always returned from the getter or set by the setter, regardless of setter activity on any other thread.   That is, if thread A is in the middle of the getter while thread B calls the setter, an actual viable value -- an autoreleased object, most likely -- will be returned to the caller in A.

In , no such guarantees are made.   Thus,  is considerably faster than "atomic".

What "atomic" does not do is make any guarantees about thread safety.  If thread A is calling the getter simultaneously with thread B and C calling the setter with different values, thread A may get any one of the three values returned -- the one prior to any setters being called or either of the values passed into the setters in B and C.  Likewise, the object may end up with the value from B or C, no way to tell.

Ensuring data integrity -- one of the primary challenges of multi-threaded programming -- is achieved by other means.

Adding to this:

 of a single property also cannot guarantee thread safety when multiple dependent properties are in play.

Consider:

In this case, thread A could be renaming the object by calling  and then calling .   In the meantime, thread B may call  in between thread A's two calls and will receive the new first name coupled with the old last name.

To address this, you need a transactional model.   I.e. some other kind of synchronization and/or exclusion that allows one to exclude access to  while the dependent properties are being updated.

A: None of these solutions worked for me.

Instead, I elaborate on @Martin v. Löwis's mention of setting a  file for SSH.

SSH will look for the user's  file. I have mine setup as:

And I add a remote git repository:

(or clone a fresh copy of the repo with  as address)

And then git commands work normally for me.

If you have submodules, you can also execute the following in the repo directory, to force the submodules to use the same key:

NOTES

- 

The  is required to prevent the SSH default behavior of sending the identity file matching the default filename for each protocol. If you have a file named  that will get tried BEFORE your  without this option.

- 

 lets you avoid reentering the key passphrase every time.

- 

You can also add  to avoid writing  every time.

References

- Best way to use multiple SSH private keys on one client

- How could I stop ssh offering a wrong key

A: 2022 UPDATE

 is recommended over  because it works for objects created using  and with objects that have overridden the inherited  method. While it is possible to workaround these problems by calling  on an external object,  is more intuitive.

Example

Original answer

I'm really confused by the answers that have been given - most of them are just outright incorrect. Of course you can have object properties that have undefined, null, or false values. So simply reducing the property check to  or, even worse,  will give you completely misleading results.

It depends on what you're looking for. If you want to know if an object physically contains a property (and it is not coming from somewhere up on the prototype chain) then  is the way to go. All modern browsers support it. (It was missing in older versions of Safari - 2.0.1 and older - but those versions of the browser are rarely used any more.)

If what you're looking for is if an object has a property on it that is iterable (when you iterate over the properties of the object, it will appear) then doing:  will give you your desired effect.

Since using  is probably what you want, and considering that you may want a fallback method, I present to you the following solution:

The above is a working, cross-browser, solution to , with one caveat: It is unable to distinguish between cases where an identical property is on the prototype and on the instance - it just assumes that it's coming from the prototype. You could shift it to be more lenient or strict, based upon your situation, but at the very least this should be more helpful.

A: Single Underscore

In a class, names with a leading underscore indicate to other programmers that the attribute or method is intended to be be used inside that class. However, privacy is not enforced in any way.
Using leading underscores for functions in a module indicates it should not be imported from somewhere else.

From the PEP-8 style guide:

: weak "internal use" indicator. E.g.  does not import objects whose name starts with an underscore.

Double Underscore (Name Mangling)

From the Python docs:

Any identifier of the form  (at least two leading underscores, at most one trailing underscore) is textually replaced with , where  is the current class name with leading underscore(s) stripped. This mangling is done without regard to the syntactic position of the identifier, so it can be used to define class-private instance and class variables, methods, variables stored in globals, and even variables stored in instances. private to this class on instances of other classes.

And a warning from the same page:

Name mangling is intended to give classes an easy way to define “private” instance variables and methods, without having to worry about instance variables defined by derived classes, or mucking with instance variables by code outside the class. Note that the mangling rules are designed mostly to avoid accidents; it still is possible for a determined soul to access or modify a variable that is considered private.

Example

A: The  command syntax

First of all, you need to understand the correct way to launch a program using the  (or ) command.

The normal syntax1 is this:

where  is a command line option (starting with a "-" character),  is a fully qualified Java class name, and  is an arbitrary command line argument that gets passed to your application.

1 - There are some other syntaxes which are described near the end of this answer.

The fully qualified name (FQN) for the class is conventionally written as you would in Java source code; e.g.

However some versions of the  command allow you to use slashes instead of periods; e.g.

which (confusingly) looks like a file pathname, but isn't one.  Note that the term fully qualified name is standard Java terminology ... not something I just made up to confuse you :-)

Here is an example of what a  command should look like:

The above is going to cause the  command to do the following:

- Search for the compiled version of the  class.

- Load the class.

- Check that the class has a  method with signature, return type and modifiers given by .  (Note, the method argument's name is NOT part of the signature.)

- Call that method passing it the command line arguments ("fred", "joe", "bert") as a .

Reasons why Java cannot find the class

When you get the message "Could not find or load main class ...", that means that the first step has failed.  The  command was not able to find the class.  And indeed, the "..." in the message will be the fully qualified class name that  is looking for.

So why might it be unable to find the class?
Reason #1 - you made a mistake with the classname argument

The first likely cause is that you may have provided the wrong class name.  (Or ... the right class name, but in the wrong form.)   Considering the example above, here are a variety of wrong ways to specify the class name:

- 

Example #1 - a simple class name:

When the class is declared in a package such as , then you must use the full classname including the package name in the  command; e.g.

- 

Example #2 - a filename or pathname rather than a class name:

- 

Example #3 - a class name with the casing incorrect:

- 

Example #4 - a typo

- 

Example #5 - a source filename (except for Java 11 or later; see below)

- 

Example #6 - you forgot the class name entirely

- 

Example #7 - you forgot the  option when attempting to run an executable JAR file, and the  command has misconstrued the JAR file name as a class name

Reason #2 - the application's classpath is incorrectly specified

The second likely cause is that the class name is correct, but that the  command cannot find the class.  To understand this, you need to understand the concept of the "classpath".  This is explained well by the Oracle documentation:

- The  command documentation

- Setting the Classpath.

- The Java Tutorial - PATH and CLASSPATH

So ... if you have specified the class name correctly, the next thing to check is that you have specified the classpath correctly:

- Read the three documents linked above.  (Yes ... READ them!  It is important that a Java programmer understands at least the basics of how the Java classpath mechanisms works.)

- Look at command line and / or the CLASSPATH environment variable that is in effect when you run the  command.  Check that the directory names and JAR file names are correct.

- If there are relative pathnames in the classpath, check that they resolve correctly ... from the current directory that is in effect when you run the  command.

- Check that the class (mentioned in the error message) can be located on the effective classpath.

- Note that the classpath syntax is different for Windows versus Linux and Mac OS. (The classpath separator is  on Windows and  on the others.  If you use the wrong separator for your platform, you won't get an explicit error message.  Instead, you will get a nonexistent file or directory on the path that will be silently ignored.)

Reason #2a - the wrong directory is on the classpath

When you put a directory on the classpath, it notionally corresponds to the root of the qualified name space.  Classes are located in the directory structure beneath that root, by mapping the fully qualified name to a pathname.  So for example, if "/usr/local/acme/classes" is on the class path, then when the JVM looks for a class called , it will look for a ".class" file with this pathname:

If you had put "/usr/local/acme/classes/com/acme/example" on the classpath, then the JVM wouldn't be able to find the class.
Reason #2b - the subdirectory path doesn't match the FQN

If your classes FQN is , then the JVM is going to look for "Foon.class" in the directory "com/acme/example":

- 

If your directory structure doesn't match the package naming as per the pattern above, the JVM won't find your class.

- 

If you attempt rename a class by moving it, that will fail as well ... but the exception stacktrace will be different.  It is liable to say something like this:

because the FQN in the class file doesn't match what the class loader is expecting to find.

To give a concrete example, supposing that:

- you want to run  class,

- the full file path is ,

- your current working directory is ,

then:

Notes:

- The  option can be shortened to  in most Java releases.  Check the respective manual entries for ,  and so on.

- Think carefully when choosing between absolute and relative pathnames in classpaths.  Remember that a relative pathname may "break" if the current directory changes.

Reason #2c - dependencies missing from the classpath

The classpath needs to include all of the other (non-system) classes that your application depends on.  (The system classes are located automatically, and you rarely need to concern yourself with this.)  For the main class to load correctly, the JVM needs to find:

- the class itself.

- all classes and interfaces in the superclass hierarchy (e.g. see Java class is present in classpath but startup fails with Error: Could not find or load main class)

- all classes and interfaces that are referred to by means of variable or variable declarations, or method call or field access expressions.

(Note: the JLS and JVM specifications allow some scope for a JVM to load classes "lazily", and this can affect when a classloader exception is thrown.)
Reason #3 - the class has been declared in the wrong package

It occasionally happens that someone puts a source code file into the
the wrong folder in their source code tree, or they leave out the  declaration.  If you do this in an IDE, the IDE's compiler will tell you about this immediately.  Similarly if you use a decent Java build tool, the tool will run  in a way that will detect the problem.  However, if you build your Java code by hand, you can do it in such a way that the compiler doesn't notice the problem, and the resulting ".class" file is not in the place that you expect it to be.
Still can't find the problem?

There lots of things to check, and it is easy to miss something.  Try adding the  option to the  command line (as the first thing after ).  It will output various things about class loading, and this may offer you clues as to what the real problem is.

Also, consider possible problems caused by copying and pasting invisible or non-ASCII characters from websites, documents and so on.  And consider "homoglyphs", where two letters or symbols look the same ... but aren't.

You may run into this problem if you have invalid or incorrect signatures in . You can try opening up the .jar in your favorite ZIP editor, and removing files from  until all you have is your .  However this is NOT RECOMMENDED in general.  (The invalid signature may be the result of someone having injected malware into the original signed JAR file.  If you erase the invalid signature, you are in infecting your application with the malware!)  The recommended approach is to get hold of JAR files with valid signatures, or rebuild them from the (authentic) original source code.

Finally, you can apparently run into this problem if there is a syntax error in the  file (see https://stackoverflow.com/a/67145190/139985).

Alternative syntaxes for 

There are three alternative syntaxes for the launching Java programs using the .

- 

The syntax used for launching an "executable" JAR file is as follows:

e.g.

The name of the entry-point class (i.e. ) and the classpath are specified in the MANIFEST of the JAR file. Anything you specify as a classpath on the command line is ignored with this syntax: only the  entry in the Manifest is used (and, transitively, those in any JAR files referenced by this entry). Note also that URLs in this  are relative to the location of the JAR it is contained in.

- 

The syntax for launching an application from a module (Java 9 and later) is as follows:

The name of the entrypoint class is either defined by the  itself, or is given by the optional .

- 

From Java 11 onwards, you can use the  command to compile and run a single source code file using the following syntax:

where  is (typically) a file with the suffix ".java".

For more details, please refer to the official documentation for the  command for the Java release that you are using.

IDEs

A typical Java IDE has support for running Java applications in the IDE JVM itself or in a child JVM.  These are generally immune from this particular exception, because the IDE uses its own mechanisms to construct the runtime classpath, identify the main class and create the  command line.

However it is still possible for this exception to occur, if you do things behind the back of the IDE.  For example, if you have previously set up an Application Launcher for your Java app in Eclipse, and you then moved the JAR file containing the "main" class to a different place in the file system without telling Eclipse, Eclipse would unwittingly launch the JVM with an incorrect classpath.

In short, if you get this problem in an IDE, check for things like stale IDE state, broken project references or broken launcher configurations.

It is also possible for an IDE to simply get confused.  IDE's are hugely complicated pieces of software comprising many interacting parts.  Many of these parts adopt various caching strategies in order to make the IDE as a whole responsive.  These can sometimes go wrong, and one possible symptom is problems when launching applications.  If you suspect this could be happening, it is worth trying other things like restarting your IDE, rebuilding the project and so on.

Other References

- From the Oracle Java Tutorials - Common Problems (and Their Solutions)

A: I found this to be the only one short, flexible, portable and readable:

The optional function  saves some repetition. It can be used in the same way as the standard  function:

A: Algorithm

To generate a random string, concatenate characters drawn randomly from the set of acceptable symbols until the string reaches the desired length.
Implementation

Here's some fairly simple and very flexible code for generating random identifiers. Read the information that follows for important application notes.

Usage examples

Create an insecure generator for 8-character identifiers:

Create a secure generator for session identifiers:

Create a generator with easy-to-read codes for printing. The strings are longer than full alphanumeric strings to compensate for using fewer symbols:

Use as session identifiers

Generating session identifiers that are likely to be unique is not good enough, or you could just use a simple counter. Attackers hijack sessions when predictable identifiers are used.

There is tension between length and security. Shorter identifiers are easier to guess, because there are fewer possibilities. But longer identifiers consume more storage and bandwidth. A larger set of symbols helps, but might cause encoding problems if identifiers are included in URLs or re-entered by hand.

The underlying source of randomness, or entropy, for session identifiers should come from a random number generator designed for cryptography. However, initializing these generators can sometimes be computationally expensive or slow, so effort should be made to re-use them when possible.
Use as object identifiers

Not every application requires security. Random assignment can be an efficient way for multiple entities to generate identifiers in a shared space without any coordination or partitioning. Coordination can be slow, especially in a clustered or distributed environment, and splitting up a space causes problems when entities end up with shares that are too small or too big.

Identifiers generated without taking measures to make them unpredictable should be protected by other means if an attacker might be able to view and manipulate them, as happens in most web applications. There should be a separate authorization system that protects objects whose identifier can be guessed by an attacker without access permission.

Care must be also be taken to use identifiers that are long enough to make collisions unlikely given the anticipated total number of identifiers. This is referred to as "the birthday paradox." The probability of a collision, p, is approximately n2/(2qx), where n is the number of identifiers actually generated, q is the number of distinct symbols in the alphabet, and x is the length of the identifiers. This should be a very small number, like 2‑50 or less.

Working this out shows that the chance of collision among 500k 15-character identifiers is about 2‑52, which is probably less likely than undetected errors from cosmic rays, etc.
Comparison with UUIDs

According to their specification, UUIDs are not designed to be unpredictable, and should not be used as session identifiers.

UUIDs in their standard format take a lot of space: 36 characters for only 122 bits of entropy. (Not all bits of a "random" UUID are selected randomly.) A randomly chosen alphanumeric string packs more entropy in just 21 characters.

UUIDs are not flexible; they have a standardized structure and layout. This is their chief virtue as well as their main weakness. When collaborating with an outside party, the standardization offered by UUIDs may be helpful. For purely internal use, they can be inefficient.

A: What is sh?

 (or the Shell Command Language) is a programming language described by the POSIX standard. It has many implementations (, Dash, ...). Bash can also be considered an implementation of  (see below).

Because  is a specification, not an implementation,  is a symlink (or a hard link) to an actual implementation on most POSIX systems.
What is Bash?

Bash started as an -compatible implementation (although it predates the POSIX standard by a few years), but as time passed it has acquired many extensions. Many of these extensions may change the behavior of valid POSIX shell scripts, so by itself Bash is not a valid POSIX shell. Rather, it is a dialect of the POSIX shell language.

Bash supports a  switch, which makes it more POSIX-compliant. It also tries to mimic POSIX if invoked as .
sh = bash?

For a long time,  used to point to  on most GNU/Linux systems. As a result, it had almost become safe to ignore the difference between the two. But that started to change recently.

Some popular examples of systems where  does not point to  (and on some of which  may not even exist) are:

- Modern Debian and Ubuntu systems, which symlink  to  by default;

- Busybox, which is usually run during the Linux system boot time as part of . It uses the ash shell implementation.

- BSD systems, and in general any non-Linux systems. OpenBSD uses , a descendant of the KornShell. FreeBSD's  is a descendant of the original Unix Bourne shell.  Solaris has its own  which for a long time was not POSIX-compliant; a free implementation is available from the Heirloom project.

How can you find out what  points to on your system?

The complication is that  could be a symbolic link or a hard link. If it's a symbolic link, a portable way to resolve it is:

If it's a hard link, try

In fact, the  flag covers both symlinks and hardlinks,
but the disadvantage of this method is that it is not portable —
POSIX does not require  to support the  option, although both GNU find and FreeBSD find support it.
Shebang line

Ultimately, it's up to you to decide which one to use, by writing the «shebang» line as the very first line of the script.

E.g.

will use  (and whatever that happens to point to),

will use  if it's available (and fail with an error message if it's not). Of course, you can also specify another implementation, e.g.

Which one to use

For my own scripts, I prefer  for the following reasons:

- it is standardized

- it is much simpler and easier to learn

- it is portable across POSIX systems — even if they happen not to have , they are required to have 

There are advantages to using  as well. Its features make programming more convenient and similar to programming in other modern programming languages. These include things like scoped local variables and arrays. Plain  is a very minimalistic programming language.

A: The compiler declares the variable in a way that makes it highly prone to an error that is often difficult to find and debug, while producing no perceivable benefits.

Your criticism is entirely justified.

I discuss this problem in detail here:

Closing over the loop variable considered harmful

  

Is there something you can do with foreach loops this way that you couldn't if they were compiled with an inner-scoped variable? or is this just an arbitrary choice that was made before anonymous methods and lambda expressions were available or common, and which hasn't been revised since then?

The latter. The C# 1.0 specification actually did not say whether the loop variable was inside or outside the loop body, as it made no observable difference. When closure semantics were introduced in C# 2.0, the choice was made to put the loop variable outside the loop, consistent with the "for" loop.

I think it is fair to say that all regret that decision. This is one of the worst "gotchas" in C#, and we are going to take the breaking change to fix it. In C# 5 the foreach loop variable will be logically inside the body of the loop, and therefore closures will get a fresh copy every time.

The  loop will not be changed, and the change will not be "back ported" to previous versions of C#. You should therefore continue to be careful when using this idiom.

A: unfortunately, this module needs to be inside the package, and it also
needs to be runnable as a script, sometimes. Any idea how I could
achieve that?

It's quite common to have a layout like this...

...with a  like this...

...a  like this...

...and a  like this...

...which works fine when you run  or , but fails with , due to the relative import...

The way you're supposed to run it is...

...but it's somewhat verbose, and doesn't mix well with a shebang line like .

The simplest fix for this case, assuming the name  is globally unique, would be to avoid using relative imports, and just use...

...although, if it's not unique, or your package structure is more complex, you'll need to include the directory containing your package directory in , and do it like this...

...or if you want it to work "out of the box", you can frob the  in code first with this...

It's kind of a pain, but there's a clue as to why in an email written by a certain Guido van Rossum...

I'm -1 on this and on any other proposed twiddlings of the 
machinery. The only use case seems to be running scripts that happen
to be living inside a module's directory, which I've always seen as an
antipattern. To make me change my mind you'd have to convince me that
it isn't.

Whether running scripts inside a package is an antipattern or not is subjective, but personally I find it really useful in a package I have which contains some custom wxPython widgets, so I can run the script for any of the source files to display a  containing only that widget for testing purposes.

A: I originally wrote this answer when TypeScript was still
  hot-off-the-presses. Five years later, this is an OK overview, but look 
  at Lodewijk's answer below for more depth

1000ft view...

TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript which primarily provides optional static typing, classes and interfaces. One of the big benefits is to enable IDEs to provide a richer environment for spotting common errors as you type the code.

To get an idea of what I mean, watch Microsoft's introductory video on the language.

For a large JavaScript project, adopting TypeScript might result in more robust software, while still being deployable where a regular JavaScript application would run.

It is open source, but you only get the clever Intellisense as you type if you use a supported IDE. Initially, this was only Microsoft's Visual Studio (also noted in blog post from Miguel de Icaza). These days, other IDEs offer TypeScript support too.

Are there other technologies like it?

There's CoffeeScript, but that really serves a different purpose. IMHO, CoffeeScript provides readability for humans, but TypeScript also provides deep readability for tools through its optional static typing (see this recent blog post for a little more critique). There's also Dart but that's a full on replacement for JavaScript (though it can produce JavaScript code)

Example

As an example, here's some TypeScript (you can play with this in the TypeScript Playground)

And here's the JavaScript it would produce

Notice how the TypeScript defines the type of member variables and class method parameters. This is removed when translating to JavaScript, but used by the IDE and compiler to spot errors, like passing a numeric type to the constructor.

It's also capable of inferring types which aren't explicitly declared, for example, it would determine the  method returns a string.

Debugging TypeScript

Many browsers and IDEs offer direct debugging support through sourcemaps. See this Stack Overflow question for more details: Debugging TypeScript code with Visual Studio

Want to know more?

I originally wrote this answer when TypeScript was still hot-off-the-presses. Check out Lodewijk's answer to this question for some more current detail.

A: Another alternative with :

This looks backwards through  for an occurrence of  starting from index zero. In other words, it only checks if  starts with .
 provides a second optional parameter 'fromIndex'. If given, the backwards search starts at this given index position and traverses back to index zero.
When the second parameter is zero, there are only two possible return values of lastIndexOf -- it either returns 0 (success, the haystack does start with the needle) or -1 (the haystack does not start with the needle).

In principle, this should have performance advantages over some other approaches:

- It doesn't search the entire .

- It doesn't create a new temporary string and then immediately discard it.

The "simpler"

may seem to give the correct "startsWith" results in some cases.
This "simpler" version gives incorrect results if there are two copies of the needle in the string -- then lastIndexOf returns the position of the last copy of that needle, which will be greater than zero, and so will always return False, whether or not the string actually does startWith the needle.

A: For  only (Chrome 119 and above)

- 

Simply visit this link in your Chrome:

- 

You should see highlighted text saying:

Temporarily unexpire flags that expired as of M118. These flags will be removed soon. – Mac, Windows, Linux, ChromeOS, Android, Fuchsia, Lacros

- 

Click Enable Then relauch Chrome.

For  only (Chrome 118 and below)

- 

Simply visit this link in your Chrome:

- 

You should see highlighted text saying:

Allow invalid certificates for resources loaded from localhost

- 

Click Enable.

Options for other sites

- 

Try typing  anywhere on the window, and the browser should let you visit the page.

- 

For a local self-signed cert that avoids arcane commands, specialized knowledge, and manual steps, try  from this answer.

A: Claude Houle's answer: should work fine, and you can also have multiple columns and other data as well:

I've only used this syntax with Access, SQL 2000/2005/Express, MySQL, and PostgreSQL, so those should be covered. It should also work with SQLite3.

A: I would use both meta, and JavaScript code and would have a link just in case.