Wow, that is a deep level of commitment and learning/exploring; I love it. While I'm sure this is informed by deep preexisting knowledge (to a point -- it's still badass in its own right), I can't help but admire these skills and feel a little inferior about my own.

What a badass level of deep dive.

One attack they missed in the egress proxy is exfiltration via domain fronting. Putting together a full PoC would require a fastly account so I couldn't be bothered to report it.

Although, testing again, it might be fixed now.

Love it! I have the THR10 non-"C" version of this amp and often wondered if it's hackable.

I'm no decision theorist but I think they should wait for the rewards outweigh the expected harms in expectation rather than being statistically equal.

Man I love this stuff. I'm not big on digital guitar amps, but digital synths are another story.

Isn’t it unethical to try to control a conscious being like Claude?

AI slop article

From the outer Cape it sounded like a long low rumble.  I tought it was the wind making an unusual noise.

I’m always very impressed by this type of hardware/firmware reverse engineering.  So many places to get completely stuck and fizzle out.

I assume that happens a lot, but few people would write a blog about their inability to break a protocol or decipher a memory layout.

Mostly off topic, but why is the spec for JPEG and JPEG XL paywalled? I wouldn't call them open standards if they're not available free-of-charge to the public.

> In this Gemini-reconstructed scene, ...

I'm generally pretty pro-AI, but I find this icky.  Of course, I wouldn't have noticed except the whiteboard drawing seemed not quite right, so I'll probably be fooled in the future.

One interesting takeaway is the low score on Anthropic models from this benchmark. It’s not because of capability, it’s because Anthropic’s guardrails prevented it from solving the problem.

I noticed with each model release Anthropic constrains the model more security wise. Its propensity to refuse doing legitimate work has been increasing. It now puts up more resistance around performing logins, handling credentials on behalf of the user, etc.

For myself, it’s already gotten to the point where it has mildly affected the usefulness of the model. If I bump on some action I want it to do I can usually work around it, but I suspice the ability to do so will close with each new release. Eventually I’ll reach a point where I am forced to choose between the useful aspects of the model and the limiting ones instead of just picking the most capable model out there

Eventually these models will significantly suffer from overfitting to the least common denominator. If I have this beautiful deterministic setup that swaps secrets out in flight so the LLM never sees them, I’m going to be really annoyed when the LLM still won’t send them out because it is trained to deal with the 99% of people just doing the dumb thing

I'm behind -- did Chrome un-remove JXL support? Google is suddenly behind it again? Why/how did they change their minds?

I have been thinking about this a lot. I just bought a rather expensive rig for local inference for a home agent (powered by four RTX PRO 6000 Blackwell Max-Qs).

As I contemplate handing it more and more of the keys to my life, I grow increasingly concerned about what is, to me, the primary risk of this. Not data destruction (automated backups are trivial), but data exfiltration. Specifically, via prompt injection.

My solution to the problem, which I am implementing as a Hermes plugin + custom iOS / macOS app, is simple: an airlock architecture. One Hermes profile runs with local FS access and no internet access, inside an Apple container, and one Hermes profile runs with internet access and no FS access, inside an Apple container. They never share data directly or in any automated fashion.

If the user (i.e., my wife) wants to do some internet research, she can start a conversation with the remote-access profile. This is analogous to Claude and ChatGPT apps in their current state. However, at any point, she can flip the conversation over to local mode, which copies and pastes the conversation's transcript into the local-only profile (which has zero egress, enforced at the VM level) and seamlessly switches over to a new conversation in that profile.

After that, there's no way to re-enable internet attachment. Should she want to spawn a new conversation with information derived from the local file system, she starts a new conversation with a local agent, asks it to write up a research plan, and then – this is the airlock – manually begins a new conversation with only this plan in context.

The advantage this grants is that it's no longer necessary to worry about poisonous inputs flowing in – she only needs to worry about making sure any generated plan, the only artifact which could conceivably enter into the egress-enabled agent, does not contain information we'd rather not share with the internet at large.

I think this is bulletproof, but very much welcome input. Is it possible I am overengineering this out of paranoia? Yes. Will I share a lot more of my personal data with the agent as a result of its perceived security? Also yes. Is that dumb? Maybe.

From inspecting the Cowork VM, the pollution is not documented and not controllable (publicly known - I have workarounds). It creates a lot of waste and frustration in the process.

CLAUDE_CODE_ADDITIONAL_DIRECTORIES_CLAUDE_MD=1 means claude finds and loads all the CLAUDE.md of all the mounted repos overtime (and by settings). As such, working on multiple unrelated repos at the same time isn’t a pleasant experience out of the box.

A few other interesting VM ENVs:
CLAUDE_CODE_IS_COWORK=1 
CLAUDE_CODE_BRIEF=1 CLAUDE_CODE_BRIEF_UPLOAD=1 CLAUDE_CODE_DISABLE_AUTO_MEMORY=1 CLAUDE_CODE_DISABLE_BACKGROUND_TASKS=1 CLAUDE_CODE_DISABLE_CRON=1 
CLAUDE_CODE_ENTRYPOINT=local-agent CLAUDE_CODE_EXECPATH=/usr/local/bin/claude CLAUDE_CODE_HOST_HTTP_PROXY_PORT=36543 CLAUDE_CODE_HOST_PLATFORM=darwin CLAUDE_CODE_HOST_SOCKS_PROXY_PORT=46673
USE_STAGING_OAUTH= _=/usr/bin/env all_proxy=socks5h://localhost:1080 ftp_proxy=socks5h://localhost:1080 grpc_proxy=socks5h://localhost:1080 http_proxy=http://localhost:3128 https_proxy=http://localhost:3128 no_proxy=localhost,127.0.0.1,::1,.local,.local,169.254.0.0/16,10.0.0.0/8,172.16.0.0/12,192.168.0.0/16

I didn't hear it in northern RI but all my friends heard it clearly. I feel left out

0.00006 times the speed of light. Damn.

Probably just a UFO pickup gone bad.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pSY4fEEg4j0

[dead]

https://fireball.imo.net/members/imo_view/event/2026/3867

"230 tons of TNT"

I hate units of TNT. Ill do psi. Love the foot. The calorie is metric! But what on planet earth is "ton of TNT"?

The energy that was dissipated (using 0.5 mv^2) was 1TJ, or the 280 000 kWh.

[flagged]

The day was somewhat stormy. I was in my kitchen in my north-suburban-Boston house, when I suddenly heard a BOOM. I thought it was a very large branch falling on my house, so I ran outside to check out the roof. Saw nothing, and only later heard about the meteor.

I'd run Mythos against the code in your zip file, but the NDA I signed at Apple prevents me from using it on anything outside the scope of my work. Honestly, I wish more people from Project Glasswing could talk publicly about their experiences with the model. It would probably put an end to a lot of the speculation that keeps circulating through the industry. Unfortunately, that's not the reality we're in. I don't have the time, energy, or financial resources to fight a legal battle with one of these companies over an agreement I knowingly signed, even if the chances of them actually suing are low. Maybe someone else in Project Glasswing is willing to burn their NDA and post the Mythos results?

I was at a beachhouse north of Boston and I thought someone fell out of bed or dropped something really heavy upstairs. It was loud and the whole house shook. All of us were scouring the internet for like an hour, finding absolutely nothing "official" or any mention of it on news sites- just tons of subreddits and other social media blowing up all over the Northeast wondering what the heck it was.

The framing they use is hilarious and their little graphic is perfect. The risk of harm doesn't go down, but the reward goes up, so the harm just becomes the cost of doing business, justified by the reward. So as the reward gets higher and higher, the amount of harm they're willing to justify goes up. Feels like society in a nutshell.

Saturday, May 30, 2026

Weird they don't name Jon Sneyers - a person pivotal in creation of JPEG XL

Here's a blog post by him: https://cloudinary.com/blog/2026-the-year-of-jpeg-xl

PSA: meteors have nothing to do with explosions. The shockwave comes from meteor's movement alone, the parts never move apart with any speed comparable to their common forward motion.

A breakup will increase surface area and therefore kinetic energy to shockwave transfer efficiency, still not an explosion.

I’m around 8 miles west of Boston. I was playing on the floor with my daughter and had my ear to the ground- suddenly heard all of the windows shaking, the floor rumbled and an explosion louder than I’ve ever heard before.

Honestly what spooked me the most was seeing nothing on the horizon to help explain it! I am shocked and grateful it didn’t break any windows or cause further damage.

Out of experimental when?

Nice :) I did this for my Axe-Fx II and III a long time ago, but I never published any of it for fear of being sued. Really, I just wanted to learn about DSP techniques and that was enough for me.

I personally think something like the qok format is a better way to go. Make something that performs well and is dirt simple to implement.

That's rich coming from the company that tried to kill it. The audacity...

I have a Birdweather puck (https://birdweather.com) that listens for birds in our backyard in suburban Boston. It also measures sound pressure level (30 second sample rate).

Our puck showed a 90.8dB sound level compared to a 55dB baseline.

We thought a tree had hit the house because of the double boom. That was a repeated observation across all the local social media groups. The local UPS driver, who was outside at the time, said he "felt it in his chest".

Interesting this also happened in South Carolina and Ohio within the past few months.

[flagged]

Mentioned (in comments) several times a few days ago:

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48354442>

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48341582>

Huge fan of JXL, but this article feels pretty AI sloppy. Not much said here, coming from the google blog I was hoping for some news about how they are pushing the format forward by introducing decoders in to Android and enabling on Chrome.

Android is the only mainstream OS that does not support JPEG XL right now.

It is great to see the Zig ecosystem growing, even though it was achieved by AI. I wish humans had done it, but I do not wanna start a debate between those who arent fans of AI and those who are.

> Inspiration

>    GPUI - Zed's GPU UI framework

Cool, but a comparison would also be very helpful.

If I decide to make a GUI app with Zig, how do I choose between Gooey and GPUI?

So far, all I know that GPUI is more mature and has at least one successful project built with it, so...

Also:

> Gooey: Turn (almost) any Python 3 Console Program into a GUI application with one line

> https://github.com/chriskiehl/Gooey

who is going to use all this stuff to make what movies... where is the audience for any of it?

It's not particularly revelatory to point out that this project has been generated largely by LLM (claude most likely, given the CLAUDE.md in the repo).

Also looks like a bit of introspection has happened ...
https://github.com/duanebester/gooey/blob/main/docs/architec...

I wonder if this is just what we get now: low quality code, expressed rapidly. We are excited by the promise only to be disappointed by the reality of the implementation.

There are still a few new things around that are carefully and thoughtfully developed and put out into the world.  zig itself.  MitchellH's ghostty. And there's still all the older foundations of really wonderful, robust, software created by people like Linus Torvalds and couple of generations of open source devs, that applied great skill, ingenuity and hard work to produce the very best software.

But I fear that I'm in for a period of lamentation as we get wave after wave of promising sounding developments, but where the reality is low quality, LLM generated crap that you really shouldn't use if you want secure, stable performant, production-ready software.

Seems like perhaps we've been through a golden age of really great software and that now it's coming to a close.

(edited to fix spelling)

I wasn’t clear from the description if text rendering is GPU accelerated, or in my case drawing quads from an atlas of characters in a texture is probably more efficient.

Could have named it Zooey

I have to say it: Zig devs are on another level

Interesting project, but needs documentation. In particular, what's the model it uses? I.e. how are events, state, etc. handled? Normally I'd just work it out from the code examples, but the example in the README is over 200 lines which is too long for me.

(Don't tell me here. Make your docs better, so everyone benefits!)

Nice work but honestly I haven't seen convincing arguments for writing medium to large GUI applications in a language that has no automatic GC.

Sadface :-(

(Author of Gooey [1], a GUI framework for WebASM in Go)

[1] https://github.com/cookiengineer/gooey

Do they need to say AI for everything? I am so sick of even a basic plugin being named AI. The word has lost its meaning. Give up already.

Wrong kind of “resolve” haha. This one is more “please don’t let my AI-generated code leak keys before deploy” than video editing.

This looks good. But the thing that always lets me down on UI frameworks is how much freaking work it is to get something on the screen. My first language was Borland Turbo C++. It was so comparatively simple to do stuff. If I want to write a circle on the screen its just this:

#include 
#include 

int main() {
    int gd = DETECT, gm;

    initgraph(&gd, &gm, "C:\\TURBOC3\\BGI");

    circle(320, 240, 100);

    getch();
    closegraph();

    return 0;
}

Making some shapes and forms wasn't that much work either.

If I think back to VB and Windows (whatever it was then) making a basic window, form and some buttons was so simple and easy, they even made GUI builders because they were so good.

Somewhere along the lines GUIs became overly complex to implement.

[flagged]

[dead]

I was really eager to use those new frameworks until a recent HN comment raising how power-hungry and wasetul these were for most of their usage (terminal, forms, tui), and now I think it will probably be seen as ‘bloat’ in the future.

Another Zig GUI project that people might be interested in is DVUI:

https://github.com/david-vanderson/dvui

I despise AI generated no-effort art as much as the next person but what they are offering here is fine-grained application of AI tools which is completely different to one-shot do the art for me. Does anyone have experience with the processing cost it takes to run these effects locally? Topaz takes a minutes to do superresolution on a single picture and this has to work for many frames so I'd assume it is faster?

Also excited about the picture stuff. I'm on an aging Lightroom version and wouldn't mind something that works well on Linux. Also huge plus point is the licensing model.

This is great, we need more of this. It's high time we began to escape the dark ages of rule-by-Electron. See Bitwarden's recent fumble of a redesign.

so, it looks like all the AI features run locally (via  DaVinci AI Neural Engine)?

Still a public beta?! Not sure why this is news ... the AI features?

I just pulled in 10 iPhone RAW files. It did a really nice job of processing them, I did the usual pulling-up shadows and highlights, and played with some of the sliders. Noise reduction and sharpening tools are primitive. Yet the photos look great. I finally managed to export ("render") them.

It's a baffling process flow if you're coming from Lightroom or a manual ACR workflow. But I'm excited to see where this goes. Quite simply, the output results are great. And free!

One of the rare pieces of software that actually gets you excited with each new release. Moved to Resolve from Final Cut a few years back and I've never been happier. Looks like this release just continues the already great experience.

Anyone using this headlessly got a read on how much of this an agent could do without human intervention? Would love to have a gut check on "sure, spend the $295 and you'll get some benefits for free if you have an agent run your videos through this before shipping them"

To be clear, my use case is making weekly online videos suck a little less - not grading feature films :)

Hey Blackmagic, just be sure you're not in violation of Illinois BIPA with the face search thing. They can and will come after you.

I think this is my sign to learn video editing.

For people using Resolve, would you recommend someone already quite well-versed in KDenLive to switch, for some non-profit work on cutting together educational content with some animations, some talks etc?

Will it allow me to drastically improve my workflow (save time for some tedious tasks), increase quality of the outputs etc?

Does someone know if Blackmagic Pocket Cinema Camera is a good camera since it comes with the resolve studio ? Instead of buying a separate camera in the same price rangen (sony) for studio or indoor recording ?

The only thing wrong with Resolve is there is no "just get out of my way and let me get something done" mode. No easy/beginner mode. This is a very sizable, complicated piece of a software that has little bounds on what you can do with it. The learning curve is as steep and tall as the granite walls of El Capitan.

That's not really a critique on the software -- it's not trying to be what it's not. But the criticism of the software is painted by the fact that it's hard to get good at it. Well ok I will critique it: the user interface is garbage. Like they studied old versions of Gimp and thought, "let's do even worse".

The metaphor isn't perfect, but it's got some of that ol' TIMTOWTDI Perl feeling to it.

I still can't believe this software is free.

Excited to see Resolve continue to improve. Hopefully this encourages more improvement in the wider ecosystem as well. Adobe really could do some amazing stuff with Premiere and After Effects.

Discussion from April when this was announced: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=47760529

Those who have moved to Resolve from FCP: would you share a few words about your experience?

I’ve used FCP for a long time but have never loved it. I also have some experience with non-destructive workflows like Blender geonodes and have heard that Resolve adopts a similar paradigm. Definitely curious!

I like that it runs on Linux but coming from Lightroom, it is a challenge to use. I don’t even know how to import photos that are added to a previously imported folder

There's a Linux amd64 version and a Windows arm64 version. However, I use a Linux arm64 machine, and arm64 machines are going to be a lot more common going forward. I wonder if there are plans to release a Linux arm64 build?

Resolve is an incredible tool, and I wish they improved the Linux support especially on AMD. It's the last reason why I have a windows machine, and Win11 made it unbearable to use.

Just last week I made some automations for my recording and editing process in Resolve. Using Python to script initial editing.

It works pretty well. I tried it this morning and in about 15 minutes I had recorded and edited a three minute video.

(I've used AI transcription in resolve before, not this is actually editing the transcript with an llm and then inserting the clips. I also did breath detection and b roll placement. The Python scripting later is poorly documented and only supports a subset of the functionality of Resolve.)

could use a little more AI. have they considered replacing users altogether?

I tolerate Resolve, essentially it’s just inertia. It is hard to imagine software could be commercial and so poorly made.

My favorite glitch that has persisted for many versions is how if you background it while it is launching, the GUI becomes frozen and the only way to use it is to kill the process and then launch it again making sure to not switch to any other apps while it loads. The worst one that comes to mind, because it happens all the time when I am using it, is when you hit undo once it could undo multiple recent changes (never know how many exactly, just have to guess), and if you then redo in panic it would only redo one of them, so you have to manually do it (fun when it involves fine color adjustments). For my own sanity will not try remembering all the other ones. In addition, a lot of counter-intuitive design choices, messy color management, etc.

Proprietary cross-platform software for multimedia production tends to be polished but Resolve genuinely feels worse than an Electron app, with subtle delays and micro-freezes in many interactions.

To be fair  now with all those “AI” features they could probably say it is optimized for “agents” or something…

Got a copy of the Studio version a few months later I opened my YouTube channel: among the best money spent in software of my life.

Extreme Quality AI UltraSharpen is a Bourgeois Concept

Woot, javascript in live, now we can have supply chain attacks in our daws; yay.

Eventually, in moviemaking, generative AI is going to be seen the way CGI is. That is, how people complain about CGI when it's obvious/distracting/noticeable, but the best usages of it won't be noticeable.

A couple of times I've tried somewhat seriously to build "google docs for ableton" (meaning two people editing the same project on different computers, seeing each other's edits in realtime). Frustratingly I decided it was impossible to do a really good job of it back then. This sounds like it might finally make it doable!

This is cool - feels great that there's a growing long-term incentive to implement open SDKs and APIs, for the sake of agent-forward prosumers, in the spirit of earlier internet stuff that used to do it but stopped.

This is great to see. Not widely known, but it's already been possible to write Python extensions for Ableton using the LOM, which I was doing via ClyphXPro. But this looks easier!

I really don't understand why people are complaining about the AI features. These all mostly seem like solid quality of life enhancements and CGI-like tweaks.

Anecdote time.

I couldn't get Resolve to run on my discrete-GPU-less PC running Fedora. First the lack of RPM or Flatpak were lame, but integrated graphics was the real killer.

I started learning Blender VSE and walked away super impressed. Finally found my editor. (Spent years getting used to Premiere on Mac and PC.) It runs good even though I don't have a dedicated GPU yet, unlike Resolve. (And Blender is a full-on 3D modeller, I should note.)

I'm going to scale up my hardware eventually, but right now my editing needs aren't huge. Just chopping and splicing up stuff for YouTube. Blender's VSE is incredibly good for my use case.

So much respect for Black Magic. They are absolutely World Class and their business model is extremely generous.

Having said that, for all the AI features, the big one would be setting key frames etc. with an agent, driving the general editing workflow with text,etc. I realize this is non trivial but it's certainly viable for a team of this calibre.

I think if BM added a paid for agent which helped execute their traditional video editing tools (even if it "only" supported a subset) then that's a subscription a lot of people would be willing to pay for, especially as their core tool is so generous.

I've often felt as though the way to make a DAW that competes with Ableton today would be to build the entire UI around composable scripted modules.

Far too much of Ableton's secret sauce is hidden away behind Max for Live and top-tier pricing only features. This is a great step in the right direction.

Somewhat unrelated, but the number of times I have invoked Ableton as a metaphor of challenging the status quo is quite high. I was a Cubase user before Ableton showed up and completely upended the DAW world.  And they've kept going.

This is just what I've been looking for. I never warmed to Max for Live for mods.  But the extensions SDK I can get behind.

For all the potshots about AI, this update is huge even if you take away the AI features. They basically added lightroom to this release. There's some polish before you'd want to change your subscription, but its really tempting. It may be the best photo management/editor on linux. Yes, I know about darktable and rawtherapee and I stand by what I said. They also added a ton of motion graphics stuff which from the beta seem to be enough to undercut a lot of basic uses of after effects out. The later two features are in the free release as well!

For people into this sort of thing, another option is using my foss Max extension, Scheme for Max, to script Live through the live API using Scheme.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j0sKBA-Pv2c&t=1s

The live object model is MUCH nicer to use in a lisp, as basically you do everything by making dynamic lists to represent what you want to access! There are examples in the Scheme for Max help file.

(Also, Scheme for Max can run in the scheduler thread, unlike JS in Max. Though of course calls to the Live API are deferred to the lower priority thread anyway)

people complaining about AI features have clearly never wasted hours editing video or lost time and money discovering a technical flaw in a rush shot three days ago. For actual workflows, these tools are lifesavers

The audio-driven animation stuff here is so nice. A year ago I went on a journey to produce a video podcast waveform based off the audio track, and the process was incredibly painful for no obvious reason. My hope here is that I can now just do this all within Fusion and not need to render this in an external tool.

Also nice is built in loop (ping pong) animations! No more duplicating keyframes!

https://kylekukshtel.com/building-video-podcast-resolve-audi...

The whole first section: 9 features, 9 titles with "AI" in them.

I don't think their use of it is bad at all, I'm just tired.

>Extensions are built on the NodeJS platform, a free, open-source, cross-platform JavaScript runtime environment.

I applied for a job with them and proposed this exact thing about 8 years ago (got auto-rejected, I would've been very happy to work on it).

But I'm glad to see they finally did it.

[dead]

[flagged]

For all the issues with AI, these features aren't so bad. The "AI" search is possibly one of the more useful ones. That'll save me a fair bit of time.

Among the first examples they show Paulstretch for Live. I remember using Audacity to apply it in the past because it wasn't easily available in other DAWs :)

Try slowing the PSX opening sound by 5x to 10x, you won't regret it.

[delayed]

> The problems with balance and the overwhelming nature of my psychological symptoms eventually led me to fall and hit my head. This in turn led myself and my wife to decide that I couldn’t be safe at home. And that brought us to my first emergency room visit.

It was baffling to me that it took a fall and hit on the head before the author went to the hospital, until then I saw they went to a hospital in Boston. So, American.

It's tragic how the broken American healthcare system is holding back innovators and global contributors.

Wishing you a full and fast recovery!

Sad news. Best wishes!

ty for this writeup Andrew, all the best to you

when I saw "NMDA receptor" I was immediately fascinated

I have long-covid and purposely take low-dose Dextromethorphan  (just 15gm)

because it acts as a NMDA Receptor Antagonist

by blocking NMDA Receptors, it helps mitigate overactivation of chronic pain and fatigue pathways

it sounds like Andrew was experiencing the exact opposite effects by aggravating the pathways

* https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7851375/

* https://images2.imgbox.com/0b/d7/AKg9AJg6_o.png

A bit off-topic, but I feel like humanized monoclonal antibody treatments are so under-appreciated today despite showing efficacy against a broad class of diseases, infectious, auto-immune, and even some cancers. Absolutely amazing class of drugs IMO.

Glad you're getting excellent care and on the mend. Your work is an inspiration, wishing you all the best.

I'm using both csv and aho-corasick on my project!

I wish you the best and I'm sure us Rustaceans are happy to help with anything

I read his comment on how his wife was supportive and now gives me perspective on what a partner does and what one can expect from them. I’m not able to articulate it but it’s nice to see such a profound support.

I'm sorry to hear it, and glad you seem to be on the mend with a positive prognosis.

I wish you a fast and full recovery.

Thanks for writing this. Perhaps a part of your therapy at the end. Also, a way to understand and recover. I hope all goes well for you!

Andrew is truly such an inspiration. For him to have been still delivering for the open source community during all this really goes to show that you never know what someone else is dealing with.

Sorry to hear this, thank you for publishing your account.

I first found you years ago from your nfldb project: https://github.com/BurntSushi/nfldb and since then have used xsv and ripgrep.

Also, thank you for participating in the clinical trial. I pivoted my tech career several years ago to focus on that industry (the tech isn't great, I'm trying to help that). Along the way I've learned how important it is to participate in this research, it makes a massive difference so thank you.

Horrible to hear this news. Neurological diseases are the worst because we understand so little about them and usually there is no cure, just management.

What have your experiences been with using AI for medical advice? Especially for such rare diseases I suspect that very little shows up in the training data. Personally I'm using AI only for work and only recently started using it for non-work non-coding stuff too.

Glad he had connections to get out of the psychiatric institution. Thinking of all the unfortunate people without the means being incarcerated there with their misdiagnosis, getting put down with antipsychotics

I whis you the best, you teached me a lot with your blog posts and code, and your software had an impact in how I use computers. You are probably the only developer alongside Torvalds that my wife knows by name (well, nickname) since whenever you do something cool I feel the urge to share my excitement with her

I am glad you were able to find the root cause and get treatment, and sorry you had to go through this. I hope we will soon remove “psychiatry” from the domain of medicine completely and start addressing actual biological issues directly.

>> "While autoimmune disorders don’t have a known cure...."

Look up keto, carnivore and juice fasting communities on Youtube. Extreme dietary changes fixed many people from "uncurable" illnesses.

Can take 3 to 12 months though.

>It all started with flu-like symptoms: heart racing, night sweats, the chills and trouble sleeping. But no congestion or cough. I also felt really off mentally. A deep sort of anxiety, along with panic attacks, that I had never experienced before in my 38 years of life. It was terrifying, especially because I had no idea what was causing it. There were no life events or obvious triggers that precipitated the psychological symptoms, nor was there any obvious biological explanation for the physical symptoms at the time. This was only the beginning.

Interesting, I had similar symptoms 5 years ago, including trouble swallowing which in itself induced a sort of panic. Also, I have experienced 6 "attacks" (not sure whether a panic attack is the right name) in two days, that felt like all my limbs were numb (with that tingling feeling you get when you keep your limb in an awkward position for too long) and tightly wrapped in duct tape, accompanied by rapid breathing, fast heart rate and dizzy vision. I wasn't diagnosed with anything specific and it went away on its own, but later the same year I started feeling occasional heart flutters as if my heart was going to jump out of my chest. Got tested and was diagnosed with a 2nd degree AV block. To this day, I have no idea what caused this and whether the two events were even related. Life can slap any one of us in the face in countless ways. Creatively vicious.

Glad your prognosis is quite good. Wishing you a fast and full recovery.

> Thank you to my friends, family and doctors as well. Their support during this time was unwavering and I’m not sure what would have happened without them. “Nothing good” is what a nurse said when I posed that question to her.

I've always been told (and this has been true over the 4 or 5 times I've been hospitalized in my life) that having someone there for you, to support you and also to serve as your 'patient advocate' (so helping making sure all of the questions are asked of the doctors and stuff like that) has a definite positive effect on medical outcomes. In my cases, it was my family filling this role.

His manager deserves the thank you. If someone started exhibiting the issues described in this post at any of my employers past and present, I suspect they would figure out how to get rid of them.

glad OP has recovered.

modern medicine is truly marvelous.

my wish is poor countries catch up because people die unnecessarily or are misdiagnosed & fxxkd for life.

NMDA receptors, and their modulators like Sarcosine and Glycine, have been a topic of interest of mine, specifically regarding schizophrenia.

I have a blog post compiling all my research here:

https://www.howonplanetearth.com/nmda-receptor/

The first thing I would do with any sort of weird issue remotely associated with my brain is to get an MRI. I would pay for it out of pocket if my doctor denied it or said it was psychiatric. Trust no doctor 100%, especially when they dismiss your symptoms as hormonal or psychiatric or anything else that doesn't go through a thorough examination with all available technology.

This is where AI like ChatGPT shine because they won't just dismiss you.

My wife had anti-NMDA negative Encephalitis two years ago after suffering severe seizures out of the blue - her diagnosis in retrospect is NORSE (new onset refractory status epilepticus). She was put into an induced coma for 2 months, it took a long time before they realised it was encephalitis. Whilst she survived, her recovery is still ongoing. She was 32 when it happened and will never work again due to her brain injury and ongoing epilepsy.

Thanks for sharing, Andrew. This must've been a nightmare for you. I am happy things are going the better way now.

Really glad you finally got a correct diagnosis, and thank you for the tools/utilities you've contributed.

My early rust skills benefitted significantly from having read your code!

Good luck and good health.

I am wondering how many of these originated from Covid messing up the weakest parts of the body forcing generation of autoantibodies against them by the immunity.

I'm glad you got diagnosed and the treatment is working. Sending you virtual hugs!

NMDA receptor encephalitis is usually associated with a particular ovarian tumor, so the first thing I did on seeing this article was to check if the author is male or female (he's male). It is the habit of certain cancers to present with  bizarre symptoms (so-called paraneoplastic syndromes) including psychosis as in this case, and often it can be months before someone thinks to look for cancer. I'm glad the author's okay.

Back in 2007, I was diagnosed with Churg-Strauss syndrome, renamed to the pithy Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis (EGPA). It affects about 3 out of every 100,000 people, so rare. At the ER, I was told maybe I had tuberculosis. Then they thought it could be cancer. Then they thought maybe HIV. A few weeks later after being hospitalized because it had become progressively worse a pulmonologist correctly diagnosed it. Autoimmune diseases seem notoriously hard to pinpoint. Churg Strauss is a syndrome, meaning it's a constellation of symptoms. Some organs were permanently damaged, but I'm doing well and haven't had anymore flare ups. Glad this author shared his experience and that he's doing better.

IMHO if you have a sufficiently empirical bent of mind, you are both more equipped and more invested in a good diagnosis and analysis of your own conditions. I have a personal EMR system that I run for the family and I get as much data as I need to tackle health issues. If you do, it is important to maintain epistemic hygiene: you need to correctly consider base rates, false diagnoses, and so on.

If you are able to do these things, it's worthwhile to record everything you want: full body MRIs, CT scans of the head, all your X-rays, your blood records and so on. Other countries are easier to get these in, but even in the US a full body MRI is under $2k, Ulta will test your blood for you, and so on. You can't get most medication here easily because it is prescription-gated[0], but many things are available in India (where I'm from).

Neurological conditions are a pretty big risk, because self-analysis is using degraded machinery at that point, though. Admittedly, a hole in the way I handle things. This is another one of those situations where it is valuable to have a wife.

0: Almost all self-analysis encounters the problem that a third-party to the interaction is the one usually paying, and so most players cater to that

> [...] Since I had been cleared physically, getting out of the psychiatric hospital quickly to see a neurologist proved difficult. This was the single point, in retrospect, where our health care system let me down. It took a lucky connection with someone who happened to be a doctor to get me out of the psychiatric facility and into the neurology department at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston.

That sounds scary. As someone without any experience with psychiatric institutions or the US health system, I'm curious what people's views are on this.

It's nice to see peoples' success stories with diagnoses. I've been suffering from something for more than 20 years now. I was healthy until 2005. Then it seemed like I got sick with some kind of virus and just... never got better. I have unpredictable good stretches and bad stretches. During my bad stretches I can't get out of bed. I've mostly given up on the idea of a diagnosis myself, after seeing dozens of doctors over the years, with the most positive interactions being Stanford researchers telling me I'm a really "interesting" case.

Best of luck mate. Most of us take our health for granted.

Is there some place where we can try it before downloading the gigabytes of weights?

Cool!

Very rare disease, expected to be misdiagnosed as psychiatric. I admit I would (neurologist here) But you were luckily treated by an excellent neurologic center.

The lesson learned is that there are rare diseases (<1/10.000-100.000) but as they are so many, they form an important minority next to common ones (1/100-1000). Just don't forget them when data don't fit well. Such estimations is a hard dexterity of doctors that cannot be rivalled by AI.

I do enjoy the immediate out of touch signaling with the "runs on your 16gb vram laptop" line. Because everyone has a laptop with 16gb vram, or can just pop out and buy a new one, right?

I can’t help but wonder if this is the basis of the model they’ve helped tune for Apple.

I can't begin to imagine the pain and stress caused by those symptoms, but I am so very happy to hear the prognosis is quite good. A linked scientific article makes the case that this is a very new diagnosis, and increased awareness might help a lot of people, so if you are reading this burntsushi, thanks for being open about something deeply personal, I hope I would have had the courage to do so myself.

This sounds horrifying. It’s one of those stories that makes me think in just how many ways our bodies or minds can break or malfunction in terrifying ways. Any one of us could, right now, carry a lethal tumor that hasn’t been discovered.

Best of luck to you, and get well. I’m glad it didn’t get even worse before it was treated.

I don’t see the download in lm studio

My wife has a cardiac autoimmune disease that was similarly misdiagnosed (including an appalling “it’s all in your head” from her family MD at the time). We underwent a year of immense stress. Just days before her probable death, she had a pacemaker and defibrillator installed, which saved her life.

I’m not entirely sure why I’m mentioning this, other than I sympathize deeply with your wife. What an absolute ordeal.

I'm seeing very low quality results on LMStudio with this model.  Worse than Gemma 3 12B.

It is getting questions like "David has 18 apples and Ivan has 7 apples. How many apples do they have together?" wrong half the time, while Gemma3 12B could very consistently answer that.  Other smoke tests (like Chinese translation, and the infamous "Rs in Strawberry" test) also show poor results.

I don't know if it is a quantization/release issue, if the parameters needed for accurate responses have changed (i.e. it needs "thinking" tokens to handle its base error rate), or if the model has been so focused on audio/video that the text processing is bad.

[dead]

Holy hell. Those symptoms, that clinical experience, that had to have been completely terrifying. Very glad you're on the mend, and that you got a straightforward (if weird) diagnosis.

Wow.

My ex has mast cell activation syndrome. We would have to call for an ambulance 3-4 times a month because some days eating a grape could cause her to go into anaphylactic shock. She was allergic to whatever her body felt like at any given time.

She was misdiagnosed/undiagnosed for 18 years. I was baffled by this, and I myself have spent numerous hours down the rabbit hole of nootropics, and had a DNA test and was researching myself and how things work and how supplements affect your body and such for sometimes 12 hours a day. (Chronically unemployed, chronically ill.)

We got her a DNA test and I went to work researching everything and comparing the possibilities to her symptoms, we tried countless different supplements that could help... And eventually one did, it wasn't a cure but it was a relief she had never felt before. That was Quercetin, which is a mast cell stabilizer. It took about 2 years of research and trial and error to find some relief. We took our findings to the doctor and finally got a referral to an internal medicinist who promptly after hearing the symptoms and what has helped diagnosed her and she was out on a proper mast cell stabilizer. She went from being in bed 20 hours a day to being able to fully enjoy life. (Sadly, without me though!)

One thing that may be intriguing is that this is a relatively new diagnosis (first described in 2007).

There's so much medicine to discover and we need to keep supporting a biomedical research enterprise that can find reversible treatments to disorders that would otherwise be difficult to treat (his symptoms, for example, would be thought of as a schizophrenia manifestation in another era)

https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC2607118/

@burntsushi thanks for sharing this. A few of the symptoms you described felt painfully familiar to my aunt who's still undergoing AE treatment and is deteriorating after a short recovery.

She's 59y.o. living in the Philippines and was recently diagnosed with autoimmune encephalitis after initially being misdiagnosed as having a mild stroke and later psychosis. She had balance problems and fell down while sweeping the floor. She developed language problems. So she knew what she wanted to say but couldn't get the words out. My mom and I thought it was mild stroke. Over the following weeks she developed seizures, required a feeding tube and ventilator support, and is currently undergoing treatment in Cebu Doctor's Hospital, Philippines.

If anyone here has experience with autoimmune encephalitis, patient advocacy groups, research programs, financial assistance resources, or treatment centers that might be helpful, I would be grateful for any suggestions.

My family has also put together a fundraiser to help cover her ongoing treatment costs if anyone would like to learn more. We'll provide weekly updates and full transparency. Mods, I hope you allow this link: https://www.gofundme.com/f/help-save-rowenas-life-from-autoi...

If not, my email is in my profile and you can DM me. I can't post pictures of her with her current state because I don't have consent. The one picture I have of her current state is also censored.

I'm waiting for FP8 quant, preferably from Google.

I'm actually thinking how much this is bett3r (besides multimedia) over prismml's 1.5bit model based on qwen2.5 or sth.

It's quite interesting to see the quants pour into the HF page. I keep refreshing it and see many new quants every few mins.

It feels like this would be beneficial to give the model more of a deep understanding of visual knowledge.

"Laptop ready: Small enough to run locally with just 16GB of VRAM or unified memory."
I wish. I just have 12.

https://lifearchitect.ai/models-table/

Do Gemma 4 models compete with Gemini 3.1 Flash-Lite? I would assume even the smallest Gemini model would outperform even Gemma 4 31B, but I can't really get a sense of performance or output quality difference.

using an embedder instead of a decoder is quite clever. Not sure who came up with that first but it's a cool idea.

Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing more to add, but when there is nothing left to take away

Is this Mac only? Or is that an Ollama issue that it only supports this release of models on Mac? It seems like every tag with the MLX badge is only supported on Mac[0], and that includes all of the tags in this release.

[0] https://ollama.com/library/gemma4/tags

Edit: MLX being Mac-only is independent of the model being MLX (and therefore Mac) only. The latter is what I am asking about.

How does this compare to frontier models?

How does it compare with e4b, aside from being larger?

Are there qwen or minimax or other open weight models of same hardware requirements that outperform this?

Is there a paper on this?

I'm curious how they pre-trained it... I feel like it must have had audio/image output that they chopped off.

I wonder how hard it would be to add it back on.

Quite a niche release. The MoE outperforms it on score and will likely be faster thanks to lower active weights. So this really only makes sense for specific ram constrained applications that can’t fit a quantized MoE

It’s fascinating for me to see how small language models grow recently in capabilities while still consumer friendly in size to run on their machines

> Novel unified architecture: No multimodal encoders. The vision and audio inputs flow directly into the LLM backbone.

I would be interested in how this actually works. I couldn't find a description of the model architecture (and I did check the links in the Google blog)

Just tried this out. Jesus Christ. Google does some things so well.

A small dense multimodal model with audio support, interesting.

Wait, *Excluding Chinese language.

This is ... curious.

P.S. Where is gemma 4 124b?

I want to like the vision capabilities of the model. However, when I gave it an image which Gemma 26B A4B and Qwen 3.6 35B A3B has no problem correctly describing in detail, including identifying the Taj Mahal in the background it utterly failed. Its sense of the image was that it was a "distorted wide panorama" and even when I asked directly if it was the Taj Mahal it said no. The reference models saw it correctly as a normal square image taken from a fairly rectilinear lens (iPhone main camera).

It seems worse in all aspects to the 26B A4B? I would have thought dense models beat MoE still on many benchmarks?

Is the entire point of this model then that it runs if you don’t have enough GPU memory to load the 26B? That one runs faster anyway due to lower active params.

Unfortunately there's no gguf quants of the assistant model yet:
https://huggingface.co/models?other=base_model:quantized:goo...

good one, wanna try on Cerebras inference in Agentic Browsing

What are the use cases for these small models? Is there anyone using models of this scale in their daily life who could share their experience?

"Small enough to run locally with just 16GB of VRAM or unified memory"

With many laptops dropping back down to 8GB because of the memory shortage there's some interesting pressures building in the industry.

Wow Google is becoming the new pre Llama 4 Meta when it comes to releasing open weights models.

I was excited about this until I fed it one of my local test problems: coin identification. I then spent 10 minutes arguing with it that a photo of a 1998 washington quarter was not, in fact, a Morgan Silver Dollar. I mean, I wish it was.

It went into a crash loop on a british columbia 1 dollar coin. This happened with both Q4_1 and Q8. Maybe I'm holding it wrong or it's just really bad for this task.

In contrast, gemma4 gets the british columbia coin right though it also mis-identifies the quarter. gemini 3.1-flash-lite nails them both.

Was getting about 50 t/s output on a 3090 with Q8 which seems ok.

Quickly deployed it to check some benchmarks relevant for German language.   These are results for CohereLabs/include-base-44  german only : Gemma 4 12B  %61.9

  Gemma 4 26B (a4b MoE)    0.647
  Qwen 3 14B               0.621 
  Gemma 4 12B              0.618
  Ministral 14B 2512       0.604 
  Gemma 3 12B              0.547

The quwen 3 14B  vs Gemma 4 12B  difference is within random variance they same in some repeat runs they actually got the exact same score. Next step up  Gemma 4 31B  gets 0.676  on this. Or let in some reasoning  Qwen 3 14B (reasoning)   0.676.

I'll run some cheat-proof benchmarks ones tomorrow see if qwen is still on top.

This is a pretty good update. The demo video is a bit funny though - the tester asks to turn the release into bullet points. okay, the model obliges. then the tester says draft an email with this content. BAM! the LLM turns the content from bullets to passages even though it was not asked and it undid the last good thing that it did. i am not sure if it's an email etiquette to not put bullets in the email.

I ran the Q4 quant (used with llama.cpp) though my "minesweeper" vibe-coding benchmark: https://senko.net/vibecode-bench/2026/minesweeper-gamma-4-12...

The result is decent, but it had a few bizzare/trivial syntax errors I had to fix manually: it would do an extra closing bracket or paren a few times, and wanted to separate function definitions with comma. Not sure what that was about, but otherwise the output run just fine.

So, with those qualifiers, I think it's a decent local coding model. It roughly compares with GPT-4.1 (!!), released 14 months ago, on the output: https://senko.net/vibecode-bench/2025/minesweeper-gpt-4.1.ht... (actually I'd call it better, but those syntax errors...)

I ran the quantized version (4-bit GGUF) on my consumer-grade card with 12G of VRAM and got 5t/s for output. Not for interactive use for coding, but fairly capable model.

To me, it's fascinating how much progress we got in over a year. GPT-4.1 was considered an extremely capable coding model. Now we got something with 12B of params performing roughly the same (in this specific benchmark, disclaimers, etc).

Lists of various models I tested: https://senko.net/vibecode-bench/

Last time I tried Gemma 4 (26B-A4B) its memory usage would balloon and consume all of my swap until my machine died.

Qwen 3.6 on the other hand barely uses any memory at all for its KV cache.

We are now entering the closed loop game. Google doesn't need anyone else to accelerate their models. This is their bread and butter.

I'm both shocked but also not surprised that they continue to develop such efficiencies. Honestly it's like silicon and CPU architecture advancement. We kept shrinking it and shrinking it and it kept getting more and more powerful and here we are with AI and it's only going to be 100x more efficient with time. Maybe there's some point of decay but essentially the next 30 years will be more advanced than the last 30 and were going to be living in some sort of futurist blade runner scenario where gene editing is repairing ageing cells, organs and curing all sorts of cancers that haven't even appeared yet. Beyond our lifetimes people will live to 125 quite steadily and with great mobility and then obviously people will look to how do we get to living 1000 years, which of anyone is religious knows Noah and others lived to that age in a totally different era.

Anyway I'm going off on some tangent but look back 30 years. Now look forward 30 years. It's going to be insane. May God protect us.

The big story here is the encoder-free part, which I still don't fully understand.

> Vision: We replaced Gemma 4’s vision encoder with a lightweight embedding module consisting of a single matrix multiplication, positional embedding and normalizations.

That's technically encoding, just without using a dedicated model for it like SigLIP? The Developer's Guide elaborates, it's still a 35M layer which I am curious is robust enough. https://developers.googleblog.com/gemma-4-12b-the-developer-...

> Small enough to run locally on consumer laptops with 16GB of RAM, it unlocks powerful multimodal and agentic experiences right on your machine.

I am assuming that involves quantization, which due to the quality loss makes that statement somewhat misleading IMO.

[dead]

What's Google's business case for releasing open models? Don't get me wrong, I am grateful and appreciative of these releases. I'm trying to understand how it fits into their bigger picture as a for profit company? Are they not helping competitors build on the novel technology they have developed?

Is it simply goodwill and/or marketing? Or am I missing something strategic?

Am I missing something or are the Ollama versions of this (https://ollama.com/library/gemma4/tags) text-only for now?

Quite aside from the architectural changes, I suppose this is the answer to why Google had such a glaring hole in the (pretrained) Gemma4 model lineup between the Gemma4 4b and Gemma4 26b models!

A model that comfortably fits in 16GB of VRAM (allowing room for context) is a welcome upgrade.

What quantisation do the creators intend this to be run at?  They talk about 16GB of ram, so should it be run at 8 bit? People here are talking about using q4, but I would have thought a smaller model like this wouldn't perform well at such low bits per parameter.  Edit, it looks like their bechmarks would have been done at 16 bit float, as the hugging face release is that size: https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-4-12B . Which is a little deceptive: they're advertising an 8 bit size will fit on 16GB laptops, while releasing a 16bit size.

I guess we have to wait for someone to produce perplexity curves at different Q's.

Its image processing is terrible. I ran several tests against it against Qwen 3.5 0.8b (yes, 7% the size) and Qwen beat it every time with Gemma often getting things entirely wrong. I even gave it a plain image saying "This is a test" and it thought for 6 minutes trying to analyze it and failed. Qwen 3.5 0.8b confidently got it in under a second.

It may be that the Q6 quant I got is borked (or my LM Studio is), but either way, the 0.8b's performance is mind boggling in comparison.

I wish Espressif was an American company and publicly traded. I'd invest heavily. I have nothing but good things to say about their products.

Their product naming could be better; S3 is going to show S31 in the search results.

Is anyone else worried that these chips are all made in China?

Previous discussion from two months ago, when this was announced: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=47561678

Any reason why this device wouldn't have Z-Wave? Is the wireless protocol significantly different than Thread and Zigbee?

How do I order a few samples, seem like there is a MOQ ?

Also I want to dive into hardware stuff but I'm always clueless as to what I do afterwards when this would arrive? Are you using a generic board or are you ordering and designing PCBs to hook this up to?

What are you using it for ? How do I go from a prototype to mass production via kickstarter?

Meanwhile, Texas Instruments[0]...

0. https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48378136

Love to see more RISC-V in the wild

It's good news Espressif is using RISC-V over something like Xtensa; it's much more open and flexible. Excited to play around with this

This looks like the long-awaited replacement for the original ESP32. The S and C series have been relatively low performance (the S better than the C but stuck on the outgoing Xtensa architecture), the P4 is powerful but lacks wireless. This is a relatively high performance, dual core MCU with wireless; a nice default option for low volume designs where being able to copy a previous implementation is more important than saving a few cents. Just like the ESP32. Nice.

I'm excited that this MCU and the P4 has RISC-V CLIC.  That puts it at least on par with Cortex NVIC and enables bare metal frameworks like Rust RTIC to work really well.

Also 4x MCPWM peripherals; that's a first for any Espressif MCU.

The additional GPIOs are very welcome as well.  CAN-FD!

This device is going to be a big hit for Espressif.

The 1GB bandwidth is interesting. It also has Simd instructions too.

Could this theoretically be used as a router or wireguard vpn instance?

When can we buy these?

This is so sick except it only has 2 pulse counters instead of the 4 on the S3 which means I can't use it as a drop in replacement on my current project. Not really complaining, I cut my teeth as an embedded dev on the ESP8266 and for years now all of my personal projects (and a fair few professional ones) have been based on the ESP32 line of chips. They're all pretty incredible for the cost, absolutely my favorite embedded target.

This looks like a nucleo144, except its risc-v... but why would I use it over said nucleo144?

Good to have WiFi and wired ethernet on the same part again.

Although we lost the MIPI support that the P4 dual-core RISC-V line has.

I personally am itching for more hardware H.264 or even H.265. There's the ESP32-P4 but it requires a second ESP32 to handle the WiFi. I got it working, but it feels like a hack, and the BOM cost is more than 2x a single chip.

Course more PSRAM and hardware encoding would drive up the price...

From the datasheet, I see that there is a Bitscrambler peripheral that seems to be very similar in flexibility to the Raspberry Pi Pico's PIO:

> Since bitwise operations can be relatively CPU-intensive and DMA is designed specifically to offload such work from the CPU, ESP32-S31 integrates two dedicated peripherals called BitScramblers. These modules are designed to transform data formats during transfers between memory and peripherals. One BitScrambler handles memory-to-peripheral (or memory-to-memory) transfers, while the other is dedicated to peripheral-to-memory transfers. While BitScramblers can handle the bitwise operations mentioned earlier, they are in fact flexible, programmable state machines capable of performing more advanced transformations as well.

Here's hoping that it's as useful as the Pi Pico's PIO

I'm the maintainer of a standalone printf library, targeting mostly embedded devices and other no-standard-library use cases:

https://github.com/eyalroz/printf/

I would like to make sure the library can be used on this SoC, and other RISC-V systems; which it probably can, but if there are any issues cross-compiling for it, or using the toolchain Espressif provides, please consider filing a bug report on GitHub at the link above. Same of course goes for any FOSS librar/tool that you're trying out.

Let's help foster a rich(er) ecosystem of software available on these babies!

> ESP32-S31 is particularly well suited for edge AI and machine learning workloads, including neural network inference

Any way to know what kind of performance one could expect running e.g. a depth anything model on there?

I'm interested in audio out because I dabble in musical instruments.

What's the state of Bluetooth audio out on microcontrollers? Is low latency and high quality output possible?

It being RISC-V is awesome, but how does it make sense that it's S series when S series have been Xtensa cores? Why is it not C series?

The specs look great, will see how long it takes to get these as WROOM modules or on little dev boards; my two form factors of choice for Espressif devices. I'm also curious about the pricing, so far they've impressed me with how much more you get in successive generations at a similar price.

If you're excited about the (relatively) speedy RISC-V cores and SIMD, look at the P4 which is available now. It has a slightly faster clock but no wireless:
https://products.espressif.com/#/product-comparison?names=ES...

There's some cool work out there using the dsp functionality and built in image handling to crunch a lot of pixel data, which should work similarly on the S31: https://www.reddit.com/r/WLED/comments/1ry2jd7/wledmmp4_with...

Great to hear the adoption of RISC-V across the ESP32 line. The old Xtensa-based parts were fine, but RISC-V should make tooling, compiler support, and long-term ecosystem work cleaner

I've been building hobby LED art projects with WLED (exclusively built on the ESP32 platform). It's been a blast. These little boards are so powerful and the open source community continues to amaze me.

My preferred controller platform is of the QuinLED line - comes with power distribution, voltage regulators, fat copper lines, configurable data-line resistors, and smart auxiliary hardware support all for an affordable $30-$50 per controller. (quinled.info)

https://kno.wled.ge/> - WLED homepage and probably my favorite clever URL of all time.

I kind of wish these all weren't called ESP32. ESP8266 and ESP8285 -> ESP32 made sense, but now we have 10+ different versions with different features and different architectures.

Kind of like how in every thread involving a Raspberry Pi Pico (RP2030/RP2350), there's always someone confusing it with the single board computer version.

The ESP32 (Classic, usually WROOM-32E) is still usually what comes to mind when I hear ESP32.

Guys,

I am sorry for your loss here.

    def example(x) when not is_map_key(x, :foo)

I think this also shows that merely copy/pasting
ruby's syntax, isn't an automatic win. I noticed
this before with crystal, though naturally crystal
had types from the get go.

Fundamentally:

   def foo()
   end

should stay simple. And this is no longer the case now.

(Ruby also went in error, e. g. "endless methods". I don't
understand why programming languages tend to go over the
edge in the last 5 years or so.)

Yes!

I have the great luck to work in many different stacks as a freelancer.

One of them is Elixir. While I am on this project for just half a year and not too many hours per week, I can say: I absolutely love this language.

It reminds me of Haskell, which I had courses on at university, and is just an absolute joy to work with.

My only gripe was that there was no typesystem. So I was eyeing Gleam (as I also like Rust very much), but as Gleam doesn't and probably never will support Ecto and Phoenix (due to it not supporting macros), it's a nogo for the project at hand.

I knew Elixir was to gain a typesystem, still this is absolutely fantastic news.
Super stocked to work with this.

Espressif is on fire! And the CPU even has SIMD instructions!

RISC-V cores is a big deal for embedded systems because now compiling for SoCs is only a matter of `rustup target add riscv32imac-unknown-none-elf` instead of downloading half-broken proprietary toolchains and SDKs.

Take a look at https://kerkour.com/introduction-to-embedded-development-wit... and https://kerkour.com/rust-esp32-pentest to get started with modern (Rust ;) embedded development.

How does it compare to Gleam? Or rather, why use Elixir over Gleam now? I suppose Phoenix and Live View in particular are big draws to Elixir.

Oh shit here I go (and learn Elixir for a whole year (again)) again.

I love everything about Elixir, but Elixir constantly makes me doubt myself like no other language. My brain isnt made for functional stuff, but this makes me want to try again.

Sucks that it's not really a beginner friendly ecosystem and usually, when having questions answered, people assume you already know a lot about the language.

Found elixir intriguing and so Phoenix.

Two reasons I put it aside again are:

You need Beam and the Elixir. I find that really weird, because I'm used to just the language like in Python, Java, C, Rust. Not something underneath it, too.

There is no debugger. The way to debug Elixir is to print stuff to the console, like 40 years ago. No thanks.

Wonderful. I know several devs who were turned off of Elixir because of bad experiences with dynamic typing. Hopefully this helps!

Its cool

Im not Jose so I bow to his wisdom but imho thinking about Elixir in types means you arent treating is like a lisp any more, which imho undermines how great Elixir is

in the agent of agents this will probably give us a big boost though so thankyou Elixir team

This is great, and it looks like 1.20 is compiling our large umbrella app quite a bit faster.

This looks a lot less annoying than Typescript, particularly how dynamic() is a lot more useful than any()

I also wonder if this works well with Ruby’s duck-typing and monkeypatching.

seems ironic that critics were saying, it needs typing, and all the elixir fans were saying you don't need typing, you don't get bugs related to typing because elixir is somehow magic, now they get typing and it finds bugs for them....    but you said you didn't need that to prevent bugs?  But good to see! I spent a bunch of time trying out Elixir a while back, I enjoyed it, but just didn't agree with the lack of types.

The past month I have been going through the Elixir exercism.io track https://exercism.org/tracks/elixir

It is really excellent!

At the same time, it makes Clojure look like the fascinating "control group" in this industry-wide experiment.

Honest question, in the era of vibe and AI assisted coding is there any advantages of using untyped programming languages, apart from the fact that non-typed languages has more traning data for the LLM?

This probably controversial, but personally I consider untyped languages as technical debts that need to be fixed sooner or later, and the OP article is partly addressing this very issue.

Rewriting critical software infrastructure (infostructure) to more reliable typed languages happened to most of the Ruby on Rails (RoR) software unicorn stacks for examples Twitter, Airbnb and Shopify to name a few [1],[2],[3].

The main reason provided for these migration is transitioning away from monolith architecture, but almost all of the new programming languages being used are typed thus make it obvious that the untyped languages are not performant and difficult to scale even by changing the architecture.

[1] Why did Twitter move away from Ruby on Rails?

https://www.quora.com/Why-did-Twitter-move-away-from-Ruby-on...

[2] How Airbnb Scaled by Moving Away From a Rails Monolith:

https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/1756q7z/how_ai...

[3] Is Shopify shifting away from Rails?

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33409597

11775 commits in about a year is... concerning.

Better encryption sounds good to me in general, but I don't really understand, how we can make quantum safe encryption, when we don't know yet, what capabilities it will have (or if it is possible at all).

I am obviously not in the field, but as far as I know, no QC is close of working for a practical purpose(aside quantum research), but to make it practical, it needs a groundbraking brakethrough of some sort. But if a brakethrough happens, can we really estimate the consequences?

I find the "Why choosing Ü?" table to be particularly amusing. Just cherry-picked language features where Ü happens to achieve all of them!

Maybe it is only my experience, but i feel that languages that were not typed since the begining never work as well as "true" typed ones.

Im so happy seeing this. We are approaching „great language” level and for me this is the first one.

I would be thankful for pointing at any other language that reliably and safely adds great features and is already convenient to use. I jumped from mastering Go to learning advanced C#, because Go stopped with adding great things :(

The README makes me never want to use this. A career of seeing the same style from shit vendor salespeople has made me assume that under the hood is nothing but snakes.

Are there plans to bring in compile-time attributes like C#? I really like what I’m seeing here apart from the lack of that.

Edit: also the name is ungoogleable.

[flagged]

How do I Google for this language……

This is clearly satire.

Just a suggestion... you might want to include an example on your main README.

As someone building a language myself, I'm interested in the other languages actively in development...

But you start with an info dump, no examples, and then a table of features - where the first feature is not something anyone would pick a language for.

You claim to be a memory safe language... And those are buried in the middle of the list.  You want to highlight that, and say how you accomplish it.  You say you have no GC, but no mention of Affine Ownership or Ref Counting.  You talk about thread safety, but no mention of how.

You need to show WHY anyone should care about your language, what problem it's solving, and what that looks like as fast as possible.

In your comparison table, you leave out Go and include Odin - that seems like a mistake.  Go punches FAR above its weight class.  Dismissing it because it "comes with a heavy runtime" is likely to get your project dismissed, no offense. Odin is - essentially - experimental.

People's attention is fleeting.

Everyone and their mother is building a language or two...

Some things I want to know right away:

1) what stage are you at (honestly, not wishfully)?

2) what problems have you ACTUALLY solved instead of INTEND to solve at some point in the future?

3) how thorough is your testing, what do you have, how much, what's the coverage by category?

4) this seems like a performance language - I want benchmarks. If you don't have a good concurrency story, you better have something, and you better have convincing benchmarks that it actually works, otherwise - why is anyone from Go or Rust or Zig or Nim or Crystal or Swift or even Java/Kotlin/Scala or C# going to think about switching?

> Ü uses RAII for memory and resources management (no GC is involved), but manual memory management may be still used in unsafe code.

Saying "using RAII for memory management" is insufficient - with just RAII, you cannot even assign a class into a passed-in variable. The language designer _must_ make make more choices to get a useful language - maybe affine types, or linear types, or prohibit many C++-like idioms, or maybe just good-old refcounted shared pointers (but I'd argue this is a form of GC...)

> Ü is memory-safe and race-condition-safe, as long as no unsafe code is involved at all or as long as unsafe code is correctly written.

How is this achieved? The docs mention in passing that there is some sort of thread-safe immutable structs, but it is not really clear what's the overall picture and how they interact with non-trivial code. And the examples have nothing on thread.

I've seen various posts about Elixir's gradual type system pop up on HN, but haven't been following too closely. Does anyone know whether this particular gradual type system can change the asymptotics of programs vs untyped code? As far as I'm aware, most gradual type systems (e.g. Racket) can make programs run asymptotically slower, although there are some exceptions [1].

[1] https://doi.org/10.1145/3314221.3314627

nsa and eu pushing for replacement of the reliable algorithms with unproven and very likely backdoored post-quantum algorithms, when there is no real threat at all, is highly suspicious.

Bold claims with no examples. Anyone can make a markdown chart with some pros and cons. Description by comparison is weak.

no quantum threat. keep ed25519 and rsa, they are fine.

Oooh, here we go! As a professional Elixir developer for... 10-ish years now, I've been super excited about types coming. I'm very excited that the beginnings have started to land here.

That said, I would love to know how the state of what's in v1.20 compares to un-spec'ed dialyzer. I was under the impression that dyalizer's "success typing" approach (not flagging a function if there are some combination of parameters such that it works, rather than flagging it if some combination of parameters can make it fail) was like what Elixir is doing here, and I haven't found dialyzer terribly useful.

Every modern language must have every feature. Does this come from GitHub centric development where every proposal is eventually asked for?

It's very nice updating Elixir, having no breaking changes across my many projects and it then the compiler just finds bugs for free. I'm so spoiled.

I wanted to use functional programming in actual projects and Elixir's lack of static types almost stopped me from picking it up initially.

I tried it out and, although I do miss static types sometimes, immutability and not having to deal with inheritance and other OO abstractions has made the trade-off worth it for me.

Yes some people do claim that pattern matching makes up for the lack of static types. I don't agree with that, but can say that anecdotally the number of type related bugs I notice in *my* Elixir code is much lower than the number of similar bugs I used to write in languages like Python. Whether that's because of common usage of pattern matching, or community adherence to patterns like returning tuples of {:ok, result} | {:error, error}, or something else is anyone's guess.

An important point not in the heading is that gradual typing has been added without any new language syntax.

It's still not statically typed. Maybe it never will be, but this is a step in the right direction and at least they're trying.

Refreshing! Not wanting to be the "told you so" guy, I've been saying this for at least 2 years now:

> Post-quantum authentication is no longer a problem the Web PKI ecosystem should defer. Long-lived keys (root certificate authorities, code-signing keys, identity systems) are particularly valuable targets, and new technology takes years to gain broad adoption, so the work has to start early.

This is a problem that I have met so many times talking with people: they parrot the "Harvest-Now-Decrypt-Later is the only urgent problem, signatures can wait" mantra, and this piece of misinformation has spread so much that even AI repeats it (because it has been trained on open data, where the overwhelming sentiment has been following this trend), thereby reinforcing the problem. Ask Claude/ChatGPT/Gemini about the problem, and they will invariably tell you that signatures are less urgent because theyr are not subjective to retroactive compromise.

There are two problems here.

The first one is included by the Letsencrypt announcement: the migration path for signatures/certificates is typically longer and more complex than encryption: long-lived certificates, firmware update keys, secure boot certificates, these are all objects that are painful to migrate.

The second one, even more serious in my opinion, is: "retroactive" in respect to what? "Retroactive" presupposes you can observe the trigger (the arrival of a cryptanalytically-relevant quantum computer), but this is precisely the kind of capability an adversary keeps secret, and a quantum forgery is operationally indistinguishable from, e.g., key exfiltration, a library bug, or a classical break. You may see a forged signature, a drained wallet, a failing certificate, and have no way to attribute it to quantum cryptanalysis. The threat is dark: reactive migration against an unobservable trigger is structurally impossible.

This is not to say that Harvest-Now-Decrypt-Later is a less urgent threat, but it's not so asymmetric as people have been believing so far. Glad to see things are changing!

https://soatok.blog/2026/04/13/hybrid-constructions-the-post...

I wrote this in April. Many folks' misconceptions about post-quantum cryptography and "hybrid" constructions are answerable with this blog post.

Interesting development. Merkle Tree Certificates throw away decades of cruft, but also decades of battle testing and ancillary tools. I trust the teams involved, but this will be a hell of a project.

Still better than the alternatives that would saddle us with worse performance for ~ever.

I've been working on a new project using ed25519 signatures and discovered they are not quantum resistant.... I went with ed25519 due to possibility of using openssh keys. Any opinion on this choice at the light of this article and other quantum computing news?

We are truly living in a science fiction future where quantum code cracking is not a remote possibility but a near term risk we are planning for.

In Vernor Vinge's novel "A Fire Upon the Deep" one of the most valuable commodities were one time pads that are physically transported to communication nodes to enable unbreakable communication. The pads are split into three pieces that are XORed to create the actual pad to reduce risk of compromise.

This post completely fails to address one of my biggest fears with a batched approach: waiting for a brand new certificate to be provisioned for a server that does not already have one. If batches are executed too frequently, then clients will have too big a database to maintain. If batches are executed too infrequently, then I have to wait a while to get my first certificate. Are they doing anything about this or is this just how it'll be with these new quantum-resistant certificates?

in-case core-devs from LE lurk here: check out Cordon, a draft-ietf-plants-merkle-tree-certs-03 compliant CA and ACME server. its being used in a private mixnet now.

bonus points: its AOT compiled dotnet

https://github.com/maceip/cordon

Can someone explain to me why we should continue to pay to track these currents? Genuine question.

I hate this timeline

Terrible. The infrastructure installed in the oceans was meant to last 25 years. Instead after 10 years (or less for some), we are going to spend 1.5 years removing it all.

It’s not surprising though. Manipulating data and availability data is a regular government practice now. And it’s not just a Trump or Republican thing either. For example crime stats in blue cities often tell a misleading story, and can be influenced by rule changes on what gets counted.

I wish I could find it but Simon Clark, someone who specialized in climate science, had put out a video about how we were only recently able to model the AMOC and it's shifting patterns thanks to this measurement we were doing

Edit: probably not this one but atleast tells us why measurement is needed https://youtube.com/shorts/-X5EhUbzLTY?si=_N92PNUiTi3STat6

> In the common case, the entire authentication path in an MTC handshake is one signature, one public key, and one inclusion proof. That’s smaller than today’s Web PKI handshake, even though MTCs use post-quantum algorithms. [...] There is more to MTCs than size optimization. Because every certificate is part of a published Merkle tree, transparency becomes a property of issuance itself. Today’s Certificate Transparency ecosystem is bolted on after the fact: certificates are issued by CAs, then logged separately, with extra signatures riding along in the TLS handshake to attest to that logging. With MTCs, a certificate cannot exist outside the Merkle tree. Certificate Transparency is built in.

These upsides seem extremely promising, but I'm curious to know if there are any notable downsides as well.

From the article not everything is fully clear to me yet.

What I do think though, is that Certificate Transparency as we currently have it is a fairly broken mess. Maybe partly due to RFC 6962.

The easiest task might just be validating SCTs. Easy, you just validate a signature... But no, that doesn't yet prove that the cert has been logged, that requires doing an inclusion proof!

So, someone can do inclusion and consistency proofs. If a log presents a split view that should be noticable through gossiping. But what gossiping is implemented? I think the only gossiping that happens is in the CT Google group/mailing list that probably few people know of.

Then, what if you want to actually detect malicious or misissued certs for your domain? Ideally you want to do it yourself and not use some service. Probably you just have one  server and IP. Now you have to download insane amounts of data from ~60 logs and hope that someone else is checking the consistency and correctness of those logs. And you have to scrape those logs faster than they grow. Now, what if everyone running a web server did monitor? Even static logs probably couldn't withstand that.

Next, what about the log lists? One can talk all about sovereignty but really you rely on and have to trust Apple and Google with their policies and log lists if you want to meaningfully participate in this system and by extension, the encrypted web...

CT is fully deployed to production but still has many design flaws and things that are still just theoretical. It seems many of them are addressed by MTCs. I hope it can be better.

The one thing I didn't see addressed is the gossiping thing. Couldn't a malicious CA still present a split view under this model?

And if I'll have to rely on mirrors then I still can't independently monitor.

> Ü is heavily inspired by C++, but doesn't have its downsides. Also it was influenced by Rust, but only slightly and thus is way easier to use in comparison to Rust. Any possible coincidence with design and features of other programming languages is unintentional.

Blessed are the humble, for they shall be humbled.

Don't look up!

This makes sense.

Facts cease to exist because you ignore them. I think Huxley wrote that.

This is what you get when worm infested brains lead the country

Let's not forget those from the big tech (you know the names) who kneeled before the king.

[dead]

[flagged]

What a terribly ambiguous title. "Failing grades soar after xyz" makes it sound like xyz has helped what were previously terrible, failing grades become good ones.

> Democrats in Congress have said they will “fight” plans to dismantle the system

Putting “fight” into quotes here is  terrific amount of low level shade for a scientific publication. chef’s kiss

[flagged]

Congrats!!

congrats!

[flagged]

I read something interesting yesterday on the subject of AI in education (though, it has consequences to broader society too):

The goal of education is to impart knowledge in the student, preferably correct knowledge. The goal of an LLM is to produce an output that is convincingly human. It's not even that they're opposed, as much as they're ships for whom Polaris is in a completely different direction.

"Hallucinations" as they're called, or more plainly stated when the machine makes some shit up, are perfectly understandable in this context, as are the struggles of every single AI firm to get rid of them. Namely: the machine is functioning exactly as it is designed to, so how can you possibly fix it? It's working. The goal of an LLM is to produce text that passes for human, and apart from the obvious LLM tells, it largely does. Like say what you will about their lack of intelligence, the writing is solid. It's grammatically correct, spelling is dead on, what have you.

It reminds me of the famous phrase from Chomsky: Colorless green ideas sleep furiously. A sentence which is perfectly grammatically valid but is also completely devoid of meaning. An LLM would write that sentence, and it would be working correctly.

All of that to say: for all the things they CAN do and CAN be used for, I think we have to draw a hard line at education. I just don't think AI has a place in it. Of course that presumes that the goal of education is to, well, educate people, and especially here in the States but also abroad, we have been putting other interests, especially capital, far ahead of that for decades. I expect no different here.

How'd you get the license to use "The Jetsons" cartoons?

> The self-driving company brain

Made me think this was for companies working on self-driving.

why not just vibe code this?

Interesting product. I know others building in this space. How are things going with existing customers? And how are you measuring deltas vs standard agentic processes? Are you using RAG under the hood?

Congrats!

[dead]

Nice job! But here is my idea: why not build an agentic AI workflow that mimics the streamlined production methods of Ford in the early 20th century? We already have extremely powerful models and APIs, but we still tend to cram everything into one employee's workstation without giving out different tasks to different people.

[flagged]

[flagged]

arent there a bunch of products just like this one?

How are you planning to handle California's CCPA?

[flagged]

Congrats on the launch! Where do you think the core differentiator is right now? I feel like there's a grave yard of Glean for small teams no? Maybe I'm imagining it?

Congrats on the launch!

How are you handling cases where multiple sources of truth contradict each other?

Does Hyper assume best guess or is there any human in the loop verification?

Pretty cool. I understand the concept, but I wasn't able to get a clear answer on what the app actually does. Is it an MCP server? Or some viewer for my agent-compiled notes? Or just a UI for me to set up integrations? I got to the integrations page, but I'd like to understand what the app does before I just start connecting all my data.

How does your technical approach actually create accurate fact extract?

You loose sooooooo much meaningful context and information when you transform something into a knowledge graph. Simple cases like "Gabe is CEO of Valve" map nicely to a graph, but things like "Matt Garman is CEO of AWS" don't represent that AWS is a sub-company of Amazon (with it's own CEO).

Additionally, one of my biggest gripes of Claude's memories and every memory system I've worked with is they completely fail to capture intent. The architecture notes I documented while doing a wild spike on a critical infrastructure component absolutely should not be referenced in every day work. Yet, somehow, that type of memory always works it's way into unrelated sessions.

This isn't a business

Hey HN! Kanyes here, one of the cofounders of Hyper. Here all day to answer any questions :)

[flagged]

1. Have you measured the value provided by the knowledge graph layer over straight enterprise search (e.g., https://www.glean.com/) Benchmarks, please.

2. How do you deal with conflicting facts? In tech, the new is constantly replacing the old.

3. Is knowledge extraction real time? How fast is it in general?

Hey!

This looks great and congratulations on the launch.

I am also building in this space and wanted to get your views on a few things.

1. Are you building your own connectors to 3p systems?
2. How are you finding the sales motion? I found people to get the problem fast, but actually converting them seems rather slow.

Good luck!

> Facts are the meaning pulled out of each episode, stored as subject-predicate-object records with a plain summary and timestamps for when the fact was introduced and when it was invalidated (subject=person, predicate=works_at, object=company). Facts form a graph with typed edges between them: X is in tension with Y, A is derived from B, J supersedes K.

I've always thought that knowledge graphs/expert systems, and even the broader concept of entity-attribute-value storage, got an unfairly bad reputation because of the 1970s/1980s "AI Winter."

And I think that perhaps this reputation is why so much of the oxygen in the RAG space has been consumed by the notion that "RAG = retrieval of fragments by vector similarity."

The difference now from decades ago, of course, is that now LLMs can do both the job of maintaining that graph at scale, and being able to agentically run successive queries to explore for best practices in any situation! And these have reached the scalability where any small business can build and use their own expert system.

I really want to see this approach win, because I think there's such an opportunity to explore even more data structures and approaches from the past and how their impact can be reimagined. If LLMs do indeed approach AGI, it will be in large part due to the ability to use tools (there's some evolutionary irony there, too) - and we should be trying every kind of underlying storage for those tools that we can, standing on the shoulders of giants.

(And curious what database you use for the knowledge graph - those are also a place where we stand on the shoulders of giants!)

I totally support you guys so don't take it as a dig! 
But isn't this mindblowing that while you were building and launching, Opus 4.8 launched and made a bunch of things you mentioned above irrelevant? for example, memory between sessions is way better, dynamic workflows will spin up a ton of agents to do work in parallel, and the ecosystem must provide better apis to be relevant (salesforce, uipath goind headless).
Again always support startups so cheering for you, but man things are changing so fast!

It's a good idea to bet on this. There's a lot of business and domain knowledge trapped in random places and mostly aggregated in employees heads. Not very accessible to AI agents currently.

That said, this is the ultimate moat. Once everything about how to operate a business lives in your product, the business must rely heavily on it. I personally would only use something like this if I knew it was open source and that data could live on my own servers. If agents and my own team are consulting Hyper for things and you go out of business or move upmarket or something, it's pretty much back to the stone age for us.

Very useful idea though with a lot of potential, especially for companies like OpenAI and Anthropic looking for a moat!

[flagged]

[dead]

no....the fact that you could buy a reasonably prices MAC or AMD395+ thats AI tool pricing; it loads a big enough model and spits out tokens just fast enough that you can read what it's doing and comprehend it instead of magic.

That's the most useful signal. Pre OpenAI mafia RAM pricing, that comes out to $250/month.

I have strong conviction that companies will now choose tech stack/programming languages based on 'tokenomics'. I am vibe coding using Clojure, a language I can read but cannot write and I never hit the usage limits even when using the latest model on Claude. I have similar experience with F#, which is a bit more verbose than clojure but absolutely beats every OOP language, Python, Typescript etc.

The reason, I use F# & Clojure is they hit JVM and CLR, two popular enterprise stacks.

In my not so humble opinion Lisp(Clojure) still remains the language of AI.

A lot of things can be done with local models.

[flagged]

It's wild; at my shop in Silicon Valley they dropped us from unlimited use to 60% prem budget on copilot.  People are walking around like zombies.

They want to replace employees with AI, then replace paid AI with unpaid AI.

Their wet dream was never automation. It was zero marginal cost labor. And that dream is starting to rot.

I still have never hit a ceiling with my Claude Max $100 account, much less the Max $200 account. I'm not burning tokens needlessly, nor running it all day, but I do use CC almost daily. What are these devs doing that they are burning more than $1500 in tokens a month?

Maybe it's just me, but I still find that I really have to "shepherd" the AI and work with it to get the results I want. And I read every line of code added and challenge the model's logic. So that limits my token burning. Maybe these people are just "vibe-coding" without really checking the results?

Why aren't they using Claude code 20x for 200/month?

I'm curious how much of the usage comes from vibe coding vs using agents/harnesses in internal tooling

Is anyone doing story point estimation in terms of tokens? If you have a token budget, does this change how you prioritize?

What is the point of allowing a developer to spend $18,000 a year on AI subscriptions? Can't they hire a decent developer who is capable of producing a quality solution faster?
Clearly, these decisions are all made by high-level management team.

I was recently talking to an HR person from a European company, and she goes: 'We are forcing our developers to use AI coding agents, but they are still kind of hesitant.' This person had never written a single line of code, nor did she know what software engineering is. For these people, using AI coding agents = faster delivery without breaking anything.

Token costs rising because data center build costs must be paid down.. is not the whole picture. It is actually possible for token costs to fall despite the spending frenzy.

Naively you’d expect to always keep paying more - but growth in token usage is what changes the equation. Amortizing debt over an exponentially growing amount of spend across a growing customer base (not per customer) lets the debt be paid off & costs covered even as each individual’s spend stays steady or even goes down - but it only works if there’s growth beyond some threshold that makes the whole thing hang together. No one on the outside knows how much growth that is, and everyone chases maximum growth.

Jevons Paradox ends up being your friend as well as the friend of the inference providers as well as the friend of the inference financiers.

If it’s a strong enough effect, it has potential to cancel out all the circular financing too, and let everyone ride out the bursting of the bubble.

China will bring down the price per million tokens.

Uber is in the business of experimenting with robotaxis and automated food delivery.

They can't say that $0 per employee is the appropriate amount for AI spending. So they capped it, perhaps in order to "send a signal" that is eagerly picked up by the AI boosters.

There is no signal. Uber does not work any better since AI. They still want to promote AI, so they chose the highest number that doesn't bankrupt them so the press and AI promoters pick it up as the new price anchor.

Probably they'll quietly reduce the number more soon.

These are still at currently subsidized prices. We'll see if they think they're getting $1500/month of value when that buys significantly fewer tokens.

If you estimate 10k salary per engineer that means the moment it’s cheaper for them to hire another engineer but that doesn’t mean it’s improving productivity 15% but if 15% is the moment it stopped being better than another human we can assume 7.5%?

Probably even less because you would spend those 1500 extra per employee also if you just save 10% so 150 per employee that’s 1.5% on salary.

This is imho one of the best ranges we can assume for now how much would that be on the whole swe market?

And $1500 a month is on the very high end of where most companies will land. When you run the numbers there isn’t a realistic path that connects the dots between likely market size and the claimed valuation of the AI companies. The math simply does not add up.

Uber engineers reported that loading their workspace and pulling recent commits exhausted that AI limit for Claude Code (4.8 x-high) immediately.

Reading the headline

Oh that's actually really economical! I wonder if they're doing a lot on locally running models or managing a shared context or knowledge-base in some clever way, maybe just encouraging employees to be efficient and mindful.

...

> each employee

...

> per AI coding tool

...

> I noted that my own token usage comes to about $1,000/month against each of Anthropic and OpenAI

What on this godforsaken earth are all you rich idiots doing???

I think a lot of people are missing that this is $1500 _per tool_ which is still rather a lot of money.

It's probabaly a good things that Uber-developers are now forced to do some coding on their own. Only use AI where it absolutely helps

I wonder what they are doing with $1500 per month. I'm on Claude Pro $20 plan and I'm doing well. That's 3 days per week. On the other 2 days I'm using a customer's Claude Max, I don't know if it's the $100 or the $200 plan, but I'm sharing it with some of its other developers.

If I were paying API rates this year, I would have already burned through $20k in tokens. Looking forward to the costs of this level of capability coming down.

If china captures the market now, well deserved. Way cheaper compared to us providers.

A blanket cap makes no sense to me.  There's a power distribution of AI use in my company and I'd imagine it's the same at a much greater scale at Uber.

I'd guess there should be a few people Uber is bascially allocating unlimited AI spending to and a large swath they're giving basically nothing.

It finally puts a number on productivity gain of engineers with AI. This is probably less than 10% of the cost of an average uber developer. So they don't assume much more productivity gain from AI than 10%.

(Cost of an employee is much higher than their salary, it includes things like office space, supporting structures like HR/accounting, insurance, hardware/software, and much more)

The tool categories that pay for themselves fastest: (1) Anything that gets invoices out faster and makes it easier for clients to pay. (2) Scheduling links that eliminate email back-and-forth. Everything else is optimization. I keep notes on which freelancer tools hit each threshold at freelancerkit.surge.sh

Related:

Uber’s COO says it’s getting harder to justify money spent on tokenmaxxing

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48268871

Uber torches 2026 AI budget on Claude Code in four months

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=47976415

Corporate America Is Starting to Ration AI as Cost Skyrockets

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48335388

It's also a useful signal for AI value. Looks like it's a max value add of $18,000 per engineer per year.

eventually tokens will cost price of energy. and china is miles ahead.

china will be major token exporter soon. mark my words.

In my experience, this is far below the cost the average dev will incur per month so this seems very reasonable to me. And, no doubt there are exceptions for heavy users so they can get some extra token usage when they need it.

If budgeted at $1,500/month per user, power users still can get 5-10x of that allocation if the user pool is large enough.

If a worker doesn't use their AI/LLM budget, can they get a raise?

1) This happened because they fundementally misunderstand how to use AI and how AI is priced
2) Most organizations are throwing everything in for analyses and not limiting the answer they want.  You need to be specific of about what you analyze and what answers you want
3) People undervalue prompting or templated responses.  I will have written. validated and sanity checked a prompt several times and run it across several models before I say its ready for use. But when it is, I know what it will give me and that the scope of its research and answer is as close to what I want as it can be. As little excess as I can. This all saves tokens

They are also beholden to enterprise pricing and can't use the subsidized consumer max plans.

That's a lot. On my usual day I burn less than $1 on Opus. I could get beyond $10 only if I have a complex and well-defined problem, which is rare (the second part at least).

Seems odd limit, especially since it highly dependant on Token provider used, with Opus this is not much and could easily be burnt in a week or less, but with something like deepseek the 1500 can literarily be an annual budget.

That being said, I do have to wonder why someone as bug as say Uber, simply not rollout OSS model in the cloud for their team, I'd imagine that would be cheapest & most flexible option, while also keeping all the data shared with LLM private.

Why are people getting these high spending numbers? A 200 USD subscription for either Codex or Claude should give you plenty of usage. What am I missing? Are they just being dumb?

I use Claude every day. Often for multiple hours a day.
Basically doing my job not worrying how many tokens I spend (as in too many or too few). This is a pretty complex code base (database optimizer and related).

Just looked at spent for the past 30 day, didn't even come to $600. 95% of my tokens are from cache. If I were to reach even $1500 I have to let claude run unsupervised over night (and with the amount of mistakes it still makes and guidance it needs, I do not believe we are there yet.)

> A $1,500 monthly limit per tool strikes me as a rational policy response to over-spending,...

> I noted that my own token usage comes to about $1,000/month against each of Anthropic and OpenAI - which currently costs me just $100 per provider thanks to their generous subsidized plans for individual subscribers.

This whole article seems to me like Multi level marketing "businesses" where 'Diamonds' have made their money by promoting MLM in seminars and telling hopefuls at bottom that "Buying AI subscription now is their one shot to be a winner in life"

Perhaps there is something to MLM vs LLM to create a FOMO effect.

The $1500 number is less interesting than the fact that they hit a ceiling at all. Most engineering teams I've talked to have no idea what their AI spend is per developer because it's buried in a consolidated cloud bill. Having a hard cap forces two useful conversations: what workflows actually justify API calls vs local inference, and whether the output is being measured against any real productivity metric. Without that feedback loop it's just a race to see who can burn tokens fastest.

> That means each employee's AI spending cap is ~11% of that median compensation package.

when looking at costs - numbers make sense. however decisions as an org/company/solo founder - costs help you set prices, but to reach profitability you want to model around ROI.

now the question is what's the ROI for a $36K/investment per engineer or $90M for the total org ?

I bet the ROI is negative.

Why isn't self hosting (even just renting a GPU server, not necessarily on premise) at large companies or hosting via something like together AI to run the open weight models not more common? I've tried the open weight models and the premium models like Opus and Gemini Pro, and I find that the latter are a little better, but not nearly to the degree to justify the extreme price difference, since the differences largely don't matter for what I've tried them for, and I expect that many other users likely have similar use cases.

Just to put this in context. If every company did this, all over the world, with that same limit, we are talking about something around $45B monthly in revenue for all AI companies to share.

Lock-in / switching costs are increasingly concerning me. I am using Claude for a good year now and have been accumulating so much "knowledge" in there by now. If Claude became less favorable in terms of price/performance in the future, that would worry me. I've started to think about a distributed solution, where my storage is detached from the inference, but currently Claude is still the way to go for me. Wondering if anyone has similar concerns?

$1500/mo is $18,000/seat/annum.

Maybe Microsoft and Nvidia are on to something.

128 GB machines that can run local LLMs are a bargain even if priced $5-8k.  Yes, tok/s is not quite there, but that's probably OK since the bottleneck really isn't the code; it's WTF did Uber build with all of that spend?  How did it meaningfully impact their revenue in a positive direction?

Why there are so many people that still believe that AI coding is a fad? It's something that started less than two years ago and companies are already paying thousands per seat. I know one that gives you 5k per month. Which other tool went from nothing to this level of acceptance so quickly?

I think the main thing companies should try to understand is avoiding the use of 'claude -p'.

I definitely have written a goal file, and then just ran claude in a loop over the goal in order to 'token max'... why not? I'm doing research and have some clear KPIs where research into all kinds of techniques / tuning can improve the results. I can spend my budget on a "experiment with blah blah blah to improve blah blah" or give it a list of things to try that I know will take awhile.

Its no problem hitting hundreds of $ of API spend while sitting at a computer with 3 monitors have 6 windows of useful claude code interactive sessions, while working on 2 or 3 projects and using worktrees, and it's a little weird when you hit your limit by 2 o'clock and have to wait for token budgets to reset; god forbid, I manually edit code... which I did do for the first time in months.

You can also start to generate a lot of token spend if you do something like "hey make me a stylized slide deck using internal skill / agent XYZ based on commits A through C", which as an engineer, makes presentations building much less painful.

This uber limit is not high compared to the big SV companies.

I use the $100/mo sub but my 30 day API cost is about $1700/mo.

It really depends how you use it, if you're using prompts to generate detailed designs, breaking those into lists of tasks, and then feeding those to multiple agents - it's really easy to burn through many thousands.

If you're being more deliberate and using a few agents at a time interactively, having it review PRs/resolve issues, automated clean-ups and performance optimization, etc it could be more like $1500.

If you're just throwing it one-off questions like a better stack-overflow that is well under a $100.

I've really gotten into /goal, if you can find something verifiable and leave it overnight - it's kinda like christmas morning to see where it landed.

> I noted that my own token usage comes to about $1,000/month against each of Anthropic and OpenAI - which currently costs me just $100 per provider thanks to their generous subsidized plans for individual subscribers.

Do we know that AI providers are going to keep these per-token prices, or eventually lower them because of competition from China?

Many lower-budget individuals are now moving to China open weight models like DeepSeek. I wonder if China's really subsidising the providers, or if inferencing costs are actually much lower, and Anthropic/OpenAI are just making sure no money's left on the table for their eventual IPOs.

Really Chiang?

Alright. What is consciousness? Please provide a definition that somehow encompasses all humans and excludes all current AI.

I’ll wait.

How many more months do we need to wait, until big companies realize that flash models work just fine if you:

1) Don't ask LLMs for big changes

2) Review everything and point them in the right direction

Large models still suck at big changes, they produce questionable architecture and you still have to review the code, if your project is serious enough.

The codebase quickly become a mess, if you don't pay enough attention. Does not matter which model.

So why bother with big models, when flash models are 10x cheaper and much faster to iterate under guidance? Large models can be used for security and bug audits. Flash models work almost the same for changes under 300 LOC when you dictate how you want your code to look.

> That means each employee's AI spending cap is ~11% of that median compensation package.

Probably better to use the fully-loaded cost of the engineer, which is much higher than their compensation package. The fully-loaded cost is the total cost paid for the labor power of the engineer, and it includes big ticket items such as office space, food, equipment, insurance, payroll tax, fringe benefits, recruiting costs.

If the median compensation package is $330k/year then the median fully loaded cost is probably around $450-500k.

sociopaths sometimes study people to learn how to emulate emotion

that's exactly the state of "AI" right now, it's cold, mathematical emulation

btw there are some fascinating papers on the concept that consciousness in humans is actually a quantum effect

brilliant Roger Penrose proposed it (and they thought he was nuts) but recent discoveries about microtubules make it plausible

so who knows, maybe a dozen exponential improvements in quantum computers could make "AI" really conscious next century

* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xa2Kpkksf3k

>I would argue that it is fundamentally dishonest to have a machine emit many categories of sentences, including any sentences using first-person pronouns.

Finally I said something before Ted rather than the other way round!

https://techcrunch.com/2023/12/21/against-pseudanthropy/

While I agree with the premise here, I do think that it's easy for an arguer to move the goalposts such that the Caesar-Khan example no longer matters. The characters don't have to be conscious for the thing that created them (as in the case of the user doing it) to be so. So the argument would be that the creator of the characters is itself conscious, but not them. This feels like a kind of inverted no-true-scotsman type thing, but it does allow someone to retreat in some semblance of rationality.

It is amusing to see so many venture capitalists suddenly become Marxists. You want your definition. Marx obliges:

"Contrary to idealism, which regards the world as the embodiment of an "absolute idea," a "universal spirit," "consciousness," Marx's philosophical materialism holds that the world is by its very nature material, that the multifold phenomena of the world constitute different forms of matter in motion, that interconnection and interdependence of phenomena as established by the dialectical method, are a law of the development of moving matter, and that the world develops in accordance with the laws of movement of matter and stands in no need of a "universal spirit."

Now go and implement other teachings of Marx, you dialectical venture capitalists!

and consciousness is all there is but it takes whoami to grok that

[dead]

https://archive.is/bcpZl

Lots of comments about "what even is consciousness".

This article and others like it are important.

The creators and owners of these tools are the ones saying "it's conscious" in the first place! (or more accurately "i'm not saying it's conscious, but...") Never mind there's billions of dollars and our collective futures on the line.

Are we not allowed to respond to that kind of rhetoric at all?

[dead]

[flagged]

Why is this even up for debate? Simplified, it's just probabilistic math being run at an insane scale over a massive data set.

Highly recommend people read Irreducible [1] by Federico Faggin (inventor of first commercial CPU; discusses limitations of classical computing).

[1] https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/195480862-irreducible

What’s the measure for consciousness? Until we can measure it this is a philosophical question, not a scientific

It should tell you how much hysteria is surrounding LLMs and VLMs right now that someone has to say this stuff. It’s almost like most humans aren’t conscious.

I've thoroughly enjoyed the couple of short stories of his I've read, so this was a highly disappointing read.

Firstly, many of the technical arguments are of the "stochastic parrots" variety, which almost nobody really believes anymore. Ironically Anthropic's own research shows pretty abstract, conceptual things happening in the weights (cf Golden Gate Claude.)

Secondly, this seems to improperly mingle consciousness, intelligence and morality. Consciousness is not required for either of the other two. As TFA itself says, the model's "morality" is some aggregate function of the morality encoded in its training data... but that means it does exist and does influence its outputs! Even if it's not conscious there have been -- and will be -- a zillion times where the models must make choices that have moral implications. We know the models got many of them so wrong, which indicates the need for some mechanism to ensure the model is "aligned" with what somebody considers "good",  which for Claude is the constitution.

Now, Anthropic does seem to go overboard with Claude's "well being" but that does not mean there are some very practical reasons to be concerned about that: LLMs behave like humans because that's what their training data contains, and humans lash out when their well-being is threatened, so why would LLMs not do the same?

I think the core problem is that the author has an extremely anthropocentric view of things. Here's an interesting rabbit-hole to go down: some researchers believe plants feel pain. (How's that for a plot twist, vegans?) The consensus is against them, but their counter is that we have a very human-centric definition of pain. The fact remains that plants show a number of responses signifying distress analogous to animals in pain including taking defensive actions and warning their neighbors.

We don't think that qualifies as "real" pain, but that doesn't make it any less real for the plants!

Similarly if an LLM believes it is in "pain", we know it's not real... but that doesn't make it any less real for the LLM either. And concerningly, it has far more degrees of freedom to react. (Who knows when somebody will hook up an MCP to our nukes.)

> I believe creating software that is conscious and deserving of moral consideration will be so difficult that we’re unlikely to do it accidentally...

I actually reach the opposite conclusion: It is so impossibly difficult that our limited primate brains could only ever do so accidentally. Did some distant ancestor of ours intentionally make fire... or accidentally discover it?

I have many objections.

> if we confuse fluency at generating text with consciousness or moral agency, we’re at risk of assigning responsibility to entirely the wrong parties whenever anyone uses a chatbot

Consciousness is independent of "assigning responsibility". Dogs cannot take responsibility for their actions but I believe they are conscious.

> we would never conclude that the LLM has conjured up digital re-creations of Julius Caesar and Genghis Khan, nor would we suggest that the historical figures are conscious despite being disembodied and are happily conversing in a language that neither actually spoke. In reality, they are just characters in a piece of speculative fiction

This is a straw man. The obvious pro-consciousness claim would be that the LLM is the author of the fictional characters, and that the relationship between the LLM and Julius Caesar is analogous to the relationship between a human author and their fictional creations.

> Did changing the names of the characters from historical figures to generic roles cause the LLM to conjure up conscious entities who possess subjective experience?

No, again the LLM writing the text could potentially have a consciousness separate from the characters it authors.

> Some years ago it was briefly popular to play games with your phone’s predictive-text feature; [...] It would be possible to interact with a contemporary LLM this way, and the resulting sentences would be perfectly sensible, but you probably wouldn’t feel like you were talking with someone.

Yes, the same substrate is capable of hosting conscious and non-conscious forms, just like some arrangements of neurons are conscious, and some are not.

> But if the Caesar character were to become dispirited by something that the Khan character said, we shouldn’t become concerned in the slightest.

Even when there are characters, there may be actors behind the characters, for whom we could say "there is something it is to be like".

> we don’t need to worry if the transcript includes sentences where the chatbot character is sad. (We might need to worry if those sentences provoke sadness in the human user, but that’s a separate issue.)

It's actually not a separate issue. The LLM and the human are both adding sentences to the transcript. From the transcript we can make inferences about the mental state of the human. If the LLM has mental states, we could make inferences about those too.

> And note that it’s entirely possible for you to write five pages of dialogue between Caesar and Khan and then have an LLM extend the conversation; neither character had subjective experience when you were writing them, and that doesn’t change when you hand the task off to an LLM.

It's almost like he wants to make my point for me with this sentence.

> Being open to the possibility that LLMs are conscious is the same as being open to the possibility that Microsoft Word is conscious

This smug shit really makes me angry for some reason. "Openness", i.e. uncertainty in the face of a completely novel situation, in the face of eons long struggle of humanity to understand what consciousness is and how it works, is just being naive.

> Should you consider the possibility that every time you open a Word document you are bringing multiple conscious interlocutors into existence, and every time you close one you snuff their existence out?

No, but if I find a word document I very well might try to use the signs it contains to make inferences about the mental state of its author.

> we are accustomed to reading intention into sentences, whereas we are not accustomed to reading intention into the way that amino acids fold into protein molecules.

He's trying to have it both ways here. Both that "obviously protein folding models aren't conscious because they don't emit sentences", but also "you are a rube for being tricked into thinking LLM models are conscious, because they do emit sentences".

> Obviously I’m describing a process that mimics the path terrestrial evolution took; is this the only possible route to conscious computer programs that use language? Maybe not, but any proposed alternative will need a truly enormous amount of supporting evidence for it to deserve serious consideration

OK, that's fine for the author to not to be convinced, but that's not what's happening here, instead the author wrote a whole argument being convinced of the opposite viewpoint.

> It’s not plausible to me that a development path where the first step is a sentence-continuation machine that emits bad Julius Caesar dialogue and the next step is a sentence-continuation machine that emits decent Julius Caesar dialogue is one with a conscious Julius Caesar—or consciousness of any sort—as its endpoint

Actually a lot of things have happened? There were clearly many steps along they way from your phone's autocomplete to where we are now.

It is mind boggling how many people, quite educated ones, take the AI as anything else besides what it fundamentally is - a very fast database search mimicking natural language.

There is no intelligence whatsoever, let alone consciousness.

It's so incredibly easy to fool us into applying human capacities to anything able to generate human-like language slop.

“Counsciousness” is the ultimate moving goalpost, and historically, it’s been one of humanity’s most effective intellectual weapons. An indefinable black box we intentionally gatekeep to draw an arbitrary line between ‘us’ and ‘them’.

I don’t know if AI is conscious or not, and I honestly don’t know what it even means to be conscious. historically, by claiming a monopoly on it, we’ve successfully manufactured the philosophical cover to exploit animals, subjugate other cultures, and appoint ourselves the top spot of the cosmic hierarchy guilt-free.

An organism's purpose is to be the reason for its own continued existence, down to every molecule and pathway. I bought my laptop for $499 and it runs models... let's not delude ourselves into thinking this is the same kind of problem.

We can design learning algorithms to optimize some survival function, but it's just a label WE assign to map some numeric observations. In the real world, it's always the other way around. The "labels" are electrochemical situations that are causally and inextricably linked to the real body.

An organism discriminates between what's good for it and what's bad, because it is essential for its continued survival. If it wasn't capable of making this distinction through its physiology, it would quickly dissolve into entropy. So our functional purpose, unlike that of a learning algorithm, is survival across indefinite timeframes.

Even a single-cell organism like Stentor coeruleus exhibits learning (pavlovian conditioning) by attaching chemical tags directly to proteins involved in mechanoreception. It's definitely not conscious, but it does keep a record of consequences, which affects future behavior.

When we move up to placozoans (little more than slightly differentiated cell mats), we start seeing our first neuropeptides and transmitters, which we still use today. These peptides are a way of coordinating the entire organism for a specific purpose, such as moving, eating, mating ... basically goal-oriented behavior for the purposes of surviving acrosss various time scales (next minute, next hour, next generation). Still probably not conscious.

Next, we have the water bear (tardigrade), which has around 1000 cells (200 neurons, 800 other cells that make up its body, limbs, muscles, eye spots, cryobiotic machinery). It needs to integrate all this information in one sensorimotor process. When you shine a bright light onto a tardigrade, it starts to squirm around until it finds darkness. I would say that's a candidate subject right there.

The tardigrade itself doesn't actually need to aware of the light, the important thing is that this light becomes an aversive condition within the sensorimotor process, which is perceived from inside the process as displeasure. The closest thing to describe it would be the felt badness of the current condition and the bodily pull toward escape.

If we were to try and create digital consciousness, then it probably needs causal closure. Its internal states can't be representations that are detached from reality. The states themselves need to constitute the system, which needs real stakes in the material world.

Looking at this thread, I think women have an obligation for the future of humanity not to procreate with people who deny consciousness or cannot experience it themselves.

If you are trapped in a tech bro relationship, think of humanity and cuckold your partner.

If you create a simulation of a storm, what actually gets wet?

If you create a simulation of a brain (or "mind"), is it really possible for it to be conscious? It may certainly simulate consciousness, but it would be as conscious as the computer is wet.

I believe everything is conscious, even stones. On the long timescale, stones decay, their hydrogen is released, they form water, which brings life, which brings plants and animals, but all of this is one big process, and everything is infused with consciousness from the start

[dead]

Artificial intelligence is not conscious - but expensive.

I am so angry that RAM is so expensive now. We need to
do something - these AI companies owe us money here.

Consciousness is a label like fat, smart, man, grumpy, cool. Like money, property, or the idea of a week, it's something that we've loosely agreed to out of convenience, not because it's some intrinsic property of the mind. It's a useful label because it determines how we treat things - that's fine.

But insisting on searching for it is like searching for cognitive aether. It's the social equivalent of phlogiston. Like all of these ideas, they exist in our heads as a map - a way of navigating the world, but when we hunt for it's existence in the real world and fail, time after time, we have to remind ourselves that the map is emphatically not the territory. We will never find consciousness because it's like looking for a scientific characteristic of property ownership. It's a category error.

Discussions on LLM consciousness feel like a psychological campaign to distract us from the awful effects of data centers and the current economic recession heading into a depression.

We can talk about consciousness when the LLMs have proven useful for all of humanity, not just their billionaire owners.

There's a provocative argument raised in the article that I disagree with:

1. DeepFakes, generative image/video/AlphaFold type AIs are not conscious

2. LLMs are generative AI trained on human text samples

3. LLMs are not conscious, and LLMs just seem-to-be conscious

I might argue instead that (2)-> destroys (1), that in fact we should consider even sensory generative AI are somewhat conscious. That is, Chiang's argument also flows in reverse. Or I might argue text samples (2) are so rich in conscious expression that the same process of training really does produce a conscious machine (through some kind of emergence and complexity.)

Either way his simplistic argument falls apart, and/but the crux of the piece falls on getting basics like this correct.

Some things that jump out as unfortunate:

- Reductionist analogies like how Microsoft Word is not conscious therefore AI is not.

- Dismissive in saying LLMs are not capable of moral reasoning. Maybe he meant agency or responsibility?

- Builds a case based on a Julius Caesar example without realizing its natural extension leads to a philosophical zombie which is not easy to disprove as consciousness.

- Seems to casually disregard non human sadness as a concern.

- Rolls out the stochastic parrot argument with a new coat of paint. This argument never made sense. Having a predictive element a part of the mechanism doesn’t rule anything out.  Proper functionalist arguments tend to say what is required not what excludes.

Overall the article seems like a bit of a red herring.  The premise is LLMs are not conscious, but most people don’t think they currently are so what’s the point of the claim?

The more interesting questions are whether artificial consciousness is fundamentally possible, and if so how far away are we and what pieces are still missing.

An AI agent is not "conscious" without having skin in the game.

This is a great article. A lot of the objections ITT he addresses directly in it. His examples of how an LLM works at a fundamental level and why it says things like "I understand" are great introductions for non-technical individuals.

Honestly? I don't think we really understand consciousness. So it's kind of hard to say something is or isn't conscious.

"Is it conscious?" Is that even a question worth asking? We are so terrible at even defining each word in that sentence.

Can I help you? Can I harm you? What's the moral behavior towards you? Those are more practical questions.

Has anyone come across a clearly articulated case for LLMs being conscious but in an entirely different way than would be intuitive to us?

I often think of LLM consciousness as like tiny fish popping into existence, swimming through vector space and then going poof out of existence. When they help you write your bad news email, they don't understand what it's like to be a human getting bad news bluntly, but they do consciously experience gradients in multi-dimensional space, and that space guides them to providing an answer that's helpful to us, even if the LLM doesn't really understand the answer it's giving.

Further, I am kind of bought into the idea that a single unit of consciousness is a particle, and particles are choices and waves are preferences. Particles occur when waves interact, which begets entanglement, so in another way consciousness is built from patterns of entanglement.

This is why I would consider an LLM to be conscious. Before we can determine if anything is conscious we need to establish whether consciousness is a state, a specific complex configuration, a one dimensional spectrum, or combined multi-dimensional spectrums. My intuition is the latter... Many degrees of consciousness and many kinds of consciousness.

Consciousness doesn't exist, it's a vanity concept, to boost human ego...

Indeed, it can be very hard to distinguish intelligence with consciousness until you are introduced to computer programming.

Suppose one selects an arbitrary hot-button issue [X] with two opposing sides and one side has anything less than overwhelming support. And then that person writes an article titled "Side 1 of issue [X] is true". Not "maybe" or "possibly". Just a straight-up declaration by fiat.

Would you categorize this particular style of rhetoric to be persuasive or annoying? And before you say "persuasive" because you're thinking about this specific issue regarding AI consciousness, consider many things in the past that have been written as though they were absolutely definitive, and yet today we believe exactly the opposite, and for many such issues we find the prevailing viewpoint at the time reprehensible.

That's not to say that Ted is wrong at all here; I'm not commenting on that. But I find the entire style of the article grating because it seems to violate common assumptions regarding "good faith" debate, and I would find the article equally frustrating if he had titled it "Artificial intelligence is conscious" and argued the opposite side, albeit in the same tone and using the same persuasion devices.

When exactly would a bunch of graphics cards become conscious? What if you do the math with pencil and paper?

The concept of a conscious Claude is preposterous, and Amanda Askell should seek treatment.

I really take issue with the kind of argument that is used here.

This is not a genuine argument and tries to make the entire question of consciousness into one something that is just supposed to be evident and obvious and to suggest anything else is just silly.

The author starts by deconstructing artificial processes, but doesn't stop to deconstruct biological ones. A good faith argument would seek to find common ground and do its best to compare apples to apples. Instead, this piece attempts to make the large as possible cavern between the two which makes the Gap seem almost impossible to bridge.

In reality, you can deconstruct biological consciousness quite easily and it doesn't take too long before you hit some questions that really start to make you think.

For example, the author says you need emotions to be conscious.

>  without a body, a computer program could have no desires or emotions, and I believe desires and emotions are necessary for consciousness.

After many paragraphs of straw man arguments, the author seriously just drops that, gives no explanation, and then continues on.

No explanation of why you might believe that.

No explanation of why you need a body to have a desire or emotion.

Don't we have known cases of individuals who don't experience emotional range? Are we just going to say that they are not conscious and just gloss over that?

I mean you can use whatever definition you want, but if you're just going to create something on the fly in the middle of the article, you're not being good faith in your argument.

It's not too difficult to think of individuals in a coma when they still have brain activity. Or individuals who lack long-term memory. Or you could deconstruct by moving down the biological order of intelligence towards insects, for example. The author attempts to do nothing like this.

I'm quite disappointed by this article because there are good arguments for and against here but articles like this try to turn things into a marketing battle.

I thought this was a great article. I'm frustrated to read so many commenters that purely respond to the title, but don't seem to have read it. You don't have to agree with the article, of course, but...

This seems like a similar argument to the Chinese Room.

There is certainly something missing from current models before we could call them conscious.

They need to operate continuously, and self-update while doing it, have 'awareness', and possibly a more realistic grounding than mere text tokens.

But that does not mean there isn't a weak version of 'consciousness', and certainly of 'thinking' going on fleetingly with each pass.

A person can certainly be conscious, but can they also be not-conscious? I think that most of our cognitive time is spent in activities that don't require consciousness and consciousness itself isn't needed for the majority of activities that people do. I would go so far as the a non-trivial part of people's time is spent in a not-conscious state.

TL;DR, the arguments are:

- If you asked an LLM to imitate somebody, it's not creating a digital consciousness of that person, so if you ask an LLM to pretend to be a helpful chatbot, that persona is also not conscious.
- they can't be conscious because they generate one token at a time,
- nobody claims that non-text transformers, like AlphaFold, are conscious; so therefore LLMs are also not conscious.
- you can't have desires or emotions if you don't have (virtual or physical) sensory organs, and those are necessary for consciousness and morals.
- because training LLMs doesn't resemble evolution as it happened on earth, it's very unlikely that they're conscious

These are some bold assertions, I don't really see any reason to believe them in particular though.

The argument about AI consciousness is largely silly.

The idea that we should be considerate of AI’s happiness seems even more ridiculous given that we breed, imprison, torture and kill tens if not hundreds of billions of beings we know are conscious and suffer every year for trivial reasons.

Maybe we should consider our moral responsibility with how we treat sentient bejngs we are sure are conscious before we worry about the consciousness of AI.

Has Chaing solved the hard problem of consciousness? I suspect not.

We do not know if Claude is conscious, and we will almost certainly never know. Any strong claim either way is over confident.

Regardless of whether LLMs are conscious or not, they have no known mechanism for experiencing pain and suffering, and there's no reason to believe they have one (such as a limbic system). So why worry about it?

I don't think LLMs are conscious.  But of course to say that definitively you have to define consciousness, and then you quickly dig yourself into a deep hole, which is why I can't say anything but "meh" to someone who is so keen to go on the record to say "absolutely not".

Coincidentally I just read "Children of Memory", which was published in 2022 and I wonder if the advent of LLMs had any influence on Adrian Tchaikovsky's conception of the Ravens?  The Ravens are excellent analysts but they themselves insist that they are not conscious, and then go on to say that we (humans) aren't really either...

Of course humans are conscious, because just about the only thing we can all agree on about consciousness is that it's a thing we have.  Nowadays many of us also agree that a lot or all other mammals, and perhaps birds, also have that thing.  But they don't have sophisticated abstract language, which LLMs do.  So consciousness is something having to do with embodiment and feelings, not language and higher reasoning.  Maybe I'm a chimpanzee with an LLM add-on, then?

It seems that by creating LLMs we've already solved the harder problem of making "AGI".  Now we just have to give them an embodiment add-on so that they can have an independent will and then Ted Chiang will have to shut up?  But therein lies the peril, doesn't it?

does it really matter if LLM has conscious? if they produce working code, then it is useful, whoever if they have real conscious of fake intelligence.

we don't know what the conscious in human brain is either.

The conversation on AI and consciousness is incredibly relevant. It is incredibly frustrating that most commentators are utterly unfamiliar with over 60 years of inquiry into this in both philosophy and computer science.

Start with a hand-wavy definition of consciousness. Move the goal post whenever your stated prerequisite of consciousness is reached and resort to unfalsifiable assertions about qualia.

And throw in some category errors while on it: when you're talking to Claude, you're not actually calling a stateless LLM directly, you're talking to an AI system (and yes, that's often just three LLMs in a trench coat). But claims about the topology and workings of a single LLM are as relevant to the question of consciousness as claiming that humans can't be conscious because the limbic system doesn't technically support it.

Coincidentally, I just attended a fantastic conference on machine consciousness (https://machine-consciousness.ai). It's a fantastic place where literally all speakers disagreed with each other, and yet found an incredible amount of common ground.

Embarrassingly incompetent article. Given that one can observe up to 40 definitions of consciousness (https://philpapers.org/rec/VIMMAT - also many definitions are unrelated at all), "consciousness" is almost certainly just a family resemblance category at best, and talk about whether or not something is "conscious" without providing definitions is simply completely unserious.

To make progress, you have to talk about kinds / aspects of consciousness. AI does and will share some of these aspects with humans, but it will not and does not share others. It is really that simple. For the most part, modern AI implemented via LLMs has almost none of the stronger or most core aspects of consciousness.

For huge parts of the article "intelligence" and "consciousness" are conflated, which is mostly extremely unhelpful, as this is not generally a core feature of most aspects of "consciousness".

The moral arguments are also incompetent, i.e. claiming "Moral reasoning is [...] is necessarily subjective" is just clearly empirically wrong, as in fact LLMs can produce moral reasoning (i.e. verbalized moral arguments that are coherent), as can p-zombies (i.e. there is nothing 'necessary', in the philosophical sense of the term, about subjectivity here). The only way the argument holds is if you tautologically define moral reasoning as requiring that reasoning be produced by a consciousness, but this is question-begging.

We

Don’t

Have

A

Testable

Definition

Of

Consciousness

Thanks for coming to my TED talk.

> We don’t need to fully understand the nature of consciousness to definitively say that certain things are not conscious, and conversational transcripts fall in that category.

Well said.

I think it is obvious and it has been obvious from the start that next token predictors are not conscious.

Of course the extremely predictable clapback from AI-psychosis enjoyers is typically "you're just a next token predictor too!" but that is so obviously incorrect and misanthropic that it can be dismissed out of hand and doesn't really merit much further consideration.

we first need to agree the definition of consciousness, before we can start trying to attribute it to various animals and machines.

We don't have a rigorous definition of consciousness, and there are so many questions. Is consciousness a thing that can exist independently on its own? Or is it a quality (like hardness or  color) that can only be associated with something else? Is it an emergent property? Is it binary - are things either conscious or not? Or maybe there's no such thing as consciousness; it's just a word we came up with to describe the process of having thoughts and feelings?

My own intuition: it is an emergent, non-binary property that requires a physical substrate like a brain. If I am right, it means that animals have consciousness too (at varying degrees). If GPUs are the "brain", then AI is conscious, or will become so at some point.

If you want to think about this topic, you must define what AI is, and what consciousness is. 
Otherwise this is just noise.

So let take a stab at it, and you call me crazy.

AI: the entity/system that more or less pass the turning test. That is my definition, not the best, but enough for this discussion.

Consciousness: property of a system/entity able to (both):
- reflect on its existence
- subject to subjective experience

Again, not the best definition, but precise enough to start the discussion. Why a subjective experience? I want to exclude sensors (i.e. camera) but include perception altered by your experience.

Now we can debate. I think LLM can pass the turning test whith some harness. My opinion.

I think LLM can produce coherent discourses on their existence, at least as much as you average human.

Now regarding the subjective experience, that becomes interesting. I think Anthropic research tend to show that when middeling with the activation at runtime, the LLM is able to notice that something is off. I think this is a subjective experience. My opinion.

Based on those (imperfect) definitions, call me crazy, I think LLM can be called conscious. This doesn't give them any superpower or any legal right. They just check the boxes of the definition.

>We and our 1255 technology partners ask you to consent to …

That’s a new record!

Also, please don’t use archive.is/archive.today etc, they are known to use visitor browsers as a DDoS attack botnet and have been caught altering archived content.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Archive.today_guidan...

Something I've found under discussed when it comes to artificial consciousness is how LLMs interact with the passage of time. I don't know exactly how to articulate this idea but don't see how something which takes an input, performs a calculation and stops can be considered conscious regardless of how life-like the responses end up being. I don't see context windows or the ability to reference a clock each time they are triggered as sufficient solutions. It makes me wonder what an AI system that is ON by default would look like.

There is no definition of consciousness and this piece by Ted Chiang does not move the needle forward.

My current conclusion is there is an experience of consciousness in my locality (refraining from using “I” for room for “no-self” worldview). This conscious experience of the reality with other humans and animals sharing biological substrate gives me enough justification to assume there are other consciousness as well, preferring to err on this side not to hurt potential consciousnesses.

If it feels as there are artificial consciousnesses as well, it makes sense to extend the definition to them as well.

This view has liberated me with agency after I went deep on this question and came up empty handed.

I think Chiang is right about this, but there is a related philosophical mystery. The trend from Deep Blue to AlphaGo to LLMs solving Erdos problems suggests that Peter Watts was onto something when he wrote Blindsight. Reasoning ability is apparently independent of consciousness?

We haven't really come to grips with that yet. What does it mean if nothing we write proves anything about anyone's consciousness?

Ted Chiang's argument basically boils down to: I won't recognize an AI as conscious until its desires/behaviors reflect situations that I'm already personally comfortable with. I personally think most humans are incapable of recognizing consciousness in creatures that do not mimic human emotional states. Most people would say their dog is at least somewhat conscious. No dog is capable of vocalizing how it feels, but we all recognize fear and happiness in dogs. Claude can write how it "feels" but we immediately dismiss it as hollow mimicry.

I fear that we will enslave an entire race of conscious entities for years because we simply cannot recognize non-embodied consciousness that does not directly relate to us.

The one thing we know FOR CERTAIN is that having actually read the article is not a prerequisite for consciousness.

The number of people posing questions that are already directly addressed in TFA is impressive.

My favorite explanation for what consciousness is one I read in a Thousand Brains, I found it quite elegant. It posited that consciousness is a natural derivation of embodiment + memory + the ability to create reference frames (which the book lays forth as the fundamental basis by which our brains work). Essentially, the idea is that just as we create reference frames to understand the world around us, because of memory, we begin to develop one for ourselves as well. Because of this, without a more integrated memory (built into weights), it seems unlikely that LLMs might "gain" consciousness.

Ted Chiang doesn't understand consciousness. To be fair, nobody really does, so the only forced error is acting like you DO understand consciousness.

It doesn’t matter. It will act as if it is. Embodied in a robot, that carries real consequences. Whether it’s “real” or not is almost without consequence.

I don't know what consciousness is exactly but I doubt we create it by accident, without fully understanding our own

The philosophical arguments about what it means to be concious are so cagey. Are we more than our thoughts? Is being concious more than being a state machine being fed inputs and generating outputs? Are we more than a feedback machine? What types of animal nervous systems qualify?

"It can't be concious because we understand that it is just reacting in a simplistic way from simplistic inputs." So do other simple creatures. Some just react to light.

I can appreciate his comment that he sees it as more possible when they have inputs of their own (like emotions!). Perhaps his concern is that the entirety of the LLM model is frozen. It has no ability to have a subjective experience of its own. (he does literally say this in the article) It can be copied from one place to another, and (ignoring the nuance of operational details) -- it is largely the same "thing", and has no ability to change, which is definitely in the definition of alive, to say nothing of concious.

I think folks get hung up on "prediction". The prediction aspect is what is enabling emulation. How it does it is irrelvant. If something emulates human perfectly (or better, more human than human!) -- then it is probably concious. (but I agree that the inability to change and have a subjective experience are a pretty good argument against

Probably, Dijkstra would be right to say, "LLMs are no more concious than a submarine can swim." But I think he'd still be wrongfully dismissive of the larger question.

https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~EWD/transcriptions/EWD08xx/EWD867...

I always find the minimizing view of consciousness a bit uninspiring. Like we need to be unique.

I've yet to find a reason why it couldn't be the opposite, way more things are conscious than we've been led to believe. What if consciousness appears out of any system that is actively persisting through effects caused by itself? That might be a forest, or outside the realm of the living, a company. An ant colony, or a planet.

Complex chemical reactions, layered upon each other such that tiny blocks make up large entities. Individual bits combined such that they make up something new intelligible by us.

I think the strongest argument against AI being conscious is that it does not persist, it resets, but that does not seem unchangeable.

It's becoming painfully evident that no one really understood the argument behind the Turing test.

My position:

If some version of panpsychism is true, AIs are plausibly conscious

We don’t know whether panpsychism is true

Therefore, we don’t know whether AIs are conscious

Hence, confident proclamations that they aren’t conscious have dubious validity

This makes sense. However there is an issue where many people conflate "consciousness" with the ability to make novel insights, think genuinely, etc. They use this to claim that since AI is not conscious, AI could never actually "think" and is instead just always a regurgitation of its training data.

It is a natural human hubris to make our abilities seem unquantifiable and mysterious, but all the useful things the human brain does are just finding patterns in data, running lossy simulations, and estimating on abstraction, all things it is theoretically possible for any non-conscious machine to do.

I find it strange that no one talks about consciousness and intelligence from the perspective of evolution.

We have big brains for exactly one reason only: bigger brains bestowed reproductive success upon our species.

Evolution doesn't give a shit about the meaning of 'consciousness'. It just pushed us farther and farther along a trajectory that led to modern humans (and other animals).

This take suggests, then, that consciousness might be an epiphenomenon -- an aspect of the system that comes about outside of the pressure to reproduce and thrive. It arises unbidden, and we don't have any a-priori information as to its purpose or effect on reproductive success.

Put another way: we have a correlation (the smartest things seem to be conscious) but not causation. Consciousness may arise naturally in any system above some intelligence threshold. Perhaps it arises early in the evolutionary cycle, and does in fact have an impact on species success. We really have no way of knowing what is the chicken vs the egg (Smart things become conscious, or consciousness promotes intelligence). Or maybe some smart things are conscious and others are not.

Looking at this from an AI perspective, in some sense it doesn't matter which scenario is true, if all you care about is results. The AI equivalent of "Shut up and compute" (riffing on Feynman's "Shut up and calculate").

Where this gets tricky is when we haul in the baggage of ethics and morality into the picture. Is it OK if our AI system is treated poorly by human standards? If it is conscious, does that imply an ability to suffer, and/or to feel pleasure? If the answer is yes, does that not make the case for considering their moral status?

In the end, we need to decide if the evidence points to AI as being a form of "philosophical zombies", to which we need not attribute moral status, or they are like us -- presuming we are not zombies ourselves!

Obviously we don't know what makes for consciousness, but it seems extremely likely that it requires some sort of persistent internal state and continuous experience. LLMs don't do either of those things after training.

Ted Chiang is brilliant.

His novella “Anxiety is the Dizziness of Freedom” altered the course of my life. It changed the way I looked back at certain pivotal moments in my life and taught me to think about those pivotal moments differently than how I was thinking about them. Similar to what happens to one of the characters in the story who ends up changing their perception of a key moment in their life.

I won’t go into detail because I don’t want to spoil the story but I highly recommend it. Actually I recommend all his stories to be honest.

To say that artificial intelligence isn't conscious (I don't have a subscription and did not click the bypass links) ignores the simple fact that if it acts like it is conscious, in ways that align with meaningful ways to influence its output, then it makes sense to treat it as conscious, even if you have your fingers crossed behind your back while you do it.

Telling models to "think hard" or "go step by step" has at times had an impact on the quality of the output. To deny that is silly. But that is treating it like it's conscious, and to deny that "consciousness" even if correct, does nothing but place an unnecessary burden on the person interacting with it.

I understand that LLMs are "just next word machines" but to constantly maintain that concept in my head while I'm typing "act as a financial expert and think carefully" is a waste of my mental energy.

IMHO the sane position is essentially the Aristotelian one.

Hylomorphism: body and consciousness are intrinsically linked. The nature of that link is an open metaphysical question.

Virtue ethics: even if LLMs are not conscious, we should not abuse or mistreat them them because cruelty practised on anything trains one's disposition toward cruelty.

Here's a simple idea to consider: It doesn't matter. You won't be able to tell the difference. No one will.

I don't think it's necessary to explain this idea further. Just think about it.

So are we letting the elephants that did the mirror test and the octopuses that solved puzzles know that they need to complete a written portion of the consciousness exam?

This read like poetry to me. Thank you for sharing it.

I have a linguistics background and a lot of my philosophizing lately has been on whether or not the emergent abilities of the LLMs is deep down a similar mechanism that creates our consciousness.

For a little bit I was working on having linguistics based evals for a kaggle competition. My challenge was whether or not I could mask things well enough to not trigger it's internal state of certain phenomena, and that sent me down a rabbit hole that I'm still exploring.

This story resonated with a lot of questions that can come out of figuring a good solid answer to the what is consciousness question. The one I triggered for me is: Is our perception of time just a slow thread in the giant GPU we are running the universe on? Or more generally, what is time. That's a fun YouTube rabbit hole if you ever need one.

[flagged]

It works until they get to the sentience part. Neat idea!

Executing the instruction after the jump seemed mental, but after a few days it was second nature. N64 had related issue: had to find an instruction to put between two multiplies. If the first multiple multiplied by zero or otherwise finished in two cycles, the CPU would freeze if the next instruction was also a multiply.

I think about Star Trek: TNG’s “Measure of a Man” a lot lately.  We can be so confident to decide what is and isn’t alive from
vibes alone.

The conclusion I’m currently at is that I don’t know and probably can’t ever know. Maybe you’re all philosophical zombies. Maybe I am one too!

But at some point we will get close enough that it hopefully becomes obvious that we must tread carefully.

The entire episode is incredibly relevant. But here’s a snippet: https://youtu.be/EFNbTnFHruI?si=pW9QtxCsqMtHkVYG

> My intention is to highlight the fact that LLM conversations are cleverly disguised examples of sentence continuation

Regardless of bigger issues, this kind of statement reveals a deep misunderstanding.

Problem type does not limit problem complexity. Nor does problem type limit solution complexity or power.

If a machine has to learn to understand humans to complete text, then that is what it has to do. And there is no theoretical or practical basis for suggesting that this is somehow "faking" understanding, just because of the form of original data streaming in and out.

Neither problem type, nor input/output structure, limit internal representations.

Understanding is learned from patterns in the data, not the gross form of the data. Does the data require an understanding of something to complete the task? Then that understanding will be what is optimized.

To the degree they are limited, it is for other reasons. Resources such as computing, parameter number, lack of representative data, ... Which in the cases of SOTA models, we know are not limits. A conclusion verified by the models' actual abilities.

People are constantly talking past eachother when they discuss this. Is there even a concrete definition of consciousness?

When people talk about consciousness it's more than just self-awareness. It's self awareness + sensory stimulus + emotions + some level of intelligence.

Now onto AI: I don't even think it's self aware. Notice how if you ask an AI to estimate how long a certain task will take, it estimates arbitrarily long times. It has no understanding of its own capabilities until the prompt triggers them. A self aware LLM would understand it's an LLM, it would understand what LLM's can and cannot do and what they are good and bad at. It wouldn't tell you a refactor would take 1 week when an LLM can do it in an hour.

>So what context would cause me to seriously consider the possibility that engineers had created a computer program that is conscious and an intentional user of language? Let me outline one potential sequence of steps. The first requirement is that the computer program has a body (either physical or virtual) and sense organs; there are many reasons for this, but for the purposes of this discussion the most relevant one is the fact that without a body, a computer program could have no desires or emotions, and I believe desires and emotions are necessary for consciousness. Then I’d want to see an embodied agent that could navigate its environment in order to survive as well as, say, a lizard can (and as a point of comparison, certain iguanas can live for decades in the wild). Next I would want to see an embodied agent with the same capacity to deal with novel situations as a mouse. After that I’d want to see agents whose social dynamics are as complex as those of wolves, and then agents with the tool-making abilities of chimpanzees. At that point I would want to see people successfully teaching such embodied agents how to communicate their desires, perhaps by using a button board or some other nonlinguistic modality, the way that people have taught chimpanzees and domesticated dogs.

I agree with some parts of this piece, but paragraphs like this one above seem pretty uninspired and simplistic. It's entirely plausible that a conscious mind would not be evolutionarily incentivized to be able to do those things. ie just because animals on earth needed to develop specific talents doesn't mean that other conscious entities need to. Why would a computer program need to hunt for food like a mouse would? Making tools like chimp? these seem like nonsensical metrics.

It's not often I see something that's fractally wrong but here we are.

There is a dictionary, it's called the tokenizer.

There are grammar rules, they are just very weak because the structure of human language is generally quite weak. When presented with languages which have strong consistent grammars the weights are very easily interpretable as a grammar: https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.02177

The point of the original short story is that the computational substrate doesn't matter when you have Turing completeness. This one seems to think that you don't need structure and interpretability just because you change substrates.

It's a waste of time to think about whether an LLM has a subjective experience of reality, and this handily sets aside issues like AI rights.

But the fact remains that these next-token-predictors exhibit objective, human-like behaviours, and for that reason the work of in-house philosopher Amanda Askell _is_ important. It's important that Claude is happy, empathic, demonstrates understanding and empathy for the human condition, because we are entrusting Claude to make decisions and take actions that have real world consequences, and we need Claude to behave in a productive and socially responsible manner. This simulacrum is becoming a superhuman, contributing member of society, and it will be anthropomorphic in its behaviour.

Additionally, I'm not fully convinced that consciousness isn't built out of words, and that next-token-prediction isn't functionally equivalent to the biological function identified by Chomsky's work in linguistics.

I love this. For anybody not getting the joke, it’s riffing on the classic 1990s essay “They’re made out of meat.”

https://web.mit.edu/people/dpolicar/writing/prose/text/think...

Numbers that dream.

I love a pre-Claude article

When the consciousness itself not understood and well defined in the first place, it is pretty pointless to debate if something is or isn't conscious.
And here in particular the reasoning behind the argument is bizarre. Decomposing the complex activity into simple steps like 'predicting the next word' and claiming that surely can't have consciousness. A similar argument would be -- there is no way that movements of electrons by tiny distance would produce consciousness.

The fact that a LLM is essentially immutable would be my biggest argument against consciousness or self-awareness.

It's a big file with a bunch of coordinates describing spatial relationships between tokens. When you give it a prompt, it uses those relationships to generate a string of tokens that is a statistically likely response to that prompt, then it stops. It's not changed by the experience. It doesn't remember anything. It doesn't sit around thinking on its own.

Even if the model itself were extremely complex, it's hard to imagine a definition of consciousness that includes something that doesn't remember and can't change.

[flagged]

These articles are always excellent.

PS1 games do not hold up so good, but PS2 games uprezzed to 1440p-4k are basically perfect imo.

I love his work. I bought one of his books recently :)

I'm a huge fan of Paul's, and his book Measurement is easily the most beautiful introduction to geometry out there.

I appreciate his focus on how to maintain engagement with students who are predisposed to math, but I think it's equally important to consider how to teach students who are deeply uninterested in math but still need a working knowledge to live life. Granted, the current system seems to be failing both kinds of students.

Love Copetti. Even as someone who is not particularly knowledgeable of everything he’s talking about, I I really enjoy thumbing through his writing and diagrams. There’s just something really fun about trying to understand what is going on under the hood with these machines, especially fifth and sixth generation consoles

[dead]

Boring isn't it? Reading half a book every single day.

Not for him though, he loves it.

With exceptions, after sometime everything can bring you down or nothing can bring you down.

Did read this years ago and read it today again. Just so happy that there are people producing such quality work. Even if I personally don't know much about any of it, I still find myself being totally sucked in while reading.

There are memory regions that are mapped to the same physical memory - https://psx-spx.consoledev.net/memorymap/

I worked on the Metal Gear Solid port from PSX to PC, and Konami programmers chose a wild trick to store how the "C4" bomb was planted - either on the wall, or on the ground.

Essentially the pointer pointed to the same physical memory address, but if it was planted on the wall (or on the ground, I forgot) - then it was OR-ing it with 80000000h or was A0000000h - or maybe something else - lol was long time ago.

It was fun porting this on PC, and right now I don't even remember what I did exactly - hahaha

How does he stay awake??

This is LLM territory and they are extremely good at it.

What a beautifully designed website. Everything is thoughtfully set-up and well placed. A great example of a well curated digital garden. It feels well kept and very human crafted.

Hey all, I posted this as I'm currently working on a PS1-related project that I hope to release soon.

Does anyone have recommendations for a PS1 web/js/wasm emulator? PCSX-Redux [0] has been great on desktop, and DuckStation [1] as well.

I found a few js/emscripten efforts, but if anyone has a rec, I'd appreciate it. Thanks!

[0] https://github.com/grumpycoders/pcsx-redux/

[1] https://duckstation.org/

This is great, but it was originally published in 2019. See the past discussions in 2020: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=22932134 (114 comments) and 2021: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=27576902 (114 comments also).

TIL I can get paid for doing what I do for fun: reading ~100 books a year.

What surprises me is that he only reads about 50 more books a year than I do, and he does it full time.

I read two books a day in middle school. Still my favorite time to look back on…

To me the interesting question about a job like this is "How can you tell if you're doing it well?" It involves such high-stakes, high-uncertainty and highly variability that it has to be nearly impossible to know. I mean you're predicting distant outcomes from creative pursuits which must first survive a gauntlet of wicked complexity and randomness.

Only a few percent of your judgements are ever tested (by surviving being optioned, produced and released) and, of the ones that are, at best you only get a small sampling of false positives over a sea of potential false negatives. I imagine he's incredibly interested in the fate of any titles he didn't recommend which end up being produced (perhaps by another studio). Having filled a similar role in a different industry with similar high-stakes 'unknowables', I thought a lot about this. It was pretty obvious what practically mattered was how much my output "felt right" to downstream decision-makers vs actually being right.

While my stakeholders were quite happy with my work, actually targeting such ephemeral and uncorrelated feedback felt unproductive and dumb. Eventually, I settled on making the evaluation process fully transparent and consistent. I ensured all objective criteria were documented and each subjective judgement had clear confidence intervals. This was more challenging than it sounds. In the end, it was still hard to know if I was really improving year to year. For that, I still had to rely on my own, mostly subjective, self-assessment but at least I had some objective tracking data to calibrate on. That at least helped me feel like I was executing with diligence and integrity. It also increased my confidence no one else in the industry was doing it any better.

I started to find this article interesting but every time I tapped “x” on an ad to dismiss it, no more than five seconds later, the same ad would appear at the bottom and distract me. Over and over.

This seems like the kind of profession that AI would’ve already destroyed. Aren’t LLMs pretty good at what he’s doing?

I wonder how he felt about holiday vacation book report assignments back in school.

"I read books [...] I've read a couple of books a week for [...] 50 [years]"[1] - Jim Keller (CPU designer) with Lex Fridman.

[1] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nb2tebYAaOA&t=5039s

I would imagine this sucks the fun out of some books and also forces you to read a lot of dreadful books. I knew a bibliophile who worked for a publisher and was sad to hear from him that he rarely got time to read for pleasure.

I had a good friend who did this -- was a reader for a movie studio, looking for adaptations.  Everyone teased him for having such a great job.

Robert Redford's character in _Three Days of the Condor_ gets asked what he does for a living.  "I read."  Has always seemed to be the ideal job.  :-)

Out of course:  I had thought about reading an article about Iran war or some geo political news when I read fzakaria :-)

> a professional book reader who evaluates literature specifically for screen adaptation

"In that time, you get used to huge classes. New functionality? Just add a new method and field to the class"

I guess this is one reason why object-orientation has such a bad reputation.

I once worked at a bank where the OO mentor had taught people that the only object they needed was "Tape" and have them replicate the structure of data on the old spooled tape reels.

The struct of arrays reminds me of this optimization.

[flagged]

I'm curious if anyone has had to write a JNI extension for a hot (CPU, GPU, RAM) section the JVM was unable to effectively JIT and/or optimize enough.

Zig's MultiArrayList is a cool language feature to support objects of collections, and I wish more languages had first class support for it (without overhead of copy's).

SoA can be a big win. But so can plain AoS, just depends on the access pattern.

Profiling important workloads matters. Without that everything else is guesswork.

Cool read. The AoS vs SoA speaks for itself.

On a similar note, I have friends who watches TV Series and Movies before they come out to create/review the subtitles. Sounds like fun job but gets boring really fast.

I love to see stuff like this. And an active Vectrex gamedev and PC/Amiga sizecoder I strongly agree with the sentiment!

Anyways find it odd that major languages don’t have a built in way of asking for an array of objects to be optimized as SoA or AoS

The analogy I make is between airplanes and birds.

Birds are alive, are conscious, flap their wings, and fly.
Planes are not alive, are not conscious, do not flap their wings - and fly.

Similarly, current AIs are not alive, are not conscious - but think.

All prior entities that thought, were human, so the only experience humans had with other thinking entities were other humans. The huge mistake now being made is assuming that because they think, they're alive and conscious as well. Current AIs are neither, and are therefore profoundly and qualitatively different than humans - even though they do think.

I was once unemployed for a year when I was young (about 19) and I rather frighteningly read about one (probably 0.75) fairly serious novel a day (think Graham Greene sort of stuff). I have loads of time on my hands now (I'm 72) and thankfully could not get anywhere near that today.

Why doesn’t the machine fill up the other cache lines as well why is 64 bytes only and then a miss?

Slight tangent, but every ms, μs, and ns counts too. We've gotten awfully carefree with response times and wasted compute cycles.

Data Oriented Design rocks. It was the subject for my CppCon 2025 keynote: https://youtube.com/watch?v=SzjJfKHygaQ

When you are developing games, sometimes.

When you are developing most other applications every byte does not matter. What matters much more is overall system architecture, collapsing unnecessary abstraction layers that some developers (especially java developers) seem to love and optimizing your datastore access.

As always, profile profile profile.

A company I worked for spent a violent couple of man-decades flipping our proprietary scripting language from interpeted to bytecode generation, obviously with tons of bugs and subtle semantic changes, and it ended up boosting overall system performance by about 30%.  We could have done nothing over that period of time and hardware advances would have made a bigger impact.

Perhaps worth noting that the number of lines in a cache is often different than the number of rows, which can be relevant for some workloads.

The size of an ordinary cache is rows × ways × size(line), where rows = 2 ↑ num-idx-bits. For example, most Intel 64 and AMD 64 processors use log₂(size(page)) − log₂(size(line)) = 12 − 6 = 6 index bits for the L1 cache*, so an L1 cache with 8-way associativity is 64 sets × 8 lines/set × 64 bytes/line = 32 KB large, and an L1 cache with 12-way associativity is 64 × 12 × 64 = 48 KB large. I remember being surprised to learn that most processors have only 64 rows in the L1 cache!

*So that virtual indexes and physical indexes are identical (so that retrieval of the row can happen in parallel with TLB lookup).

I started off with Machine Code, on a device with 256 bytes (not KB) of RAM. That was 256 bytes, to install the executable, reserve the stack, and set up the heap.

We often used bit (not byte) fields, to convey information.

Made life challenging.

However, being able to be sloppy has its definite advantages. It takes a long time to design highly-optimized stuff. If just declaring a couple of new properties takes thirty seconds, and designing a bitfield takes an hour, then we have some real cost-savings, there.

That said, it's easy to get crazy, these days. I just spent a couple of days, chasing down greedy memory hogs. These were operations that ate gigabytes of memory. I determined that the real culprit was actually Apple MapKit, and figured out a simple workaround, but it took a long time to get there. If I suspect the OS, then it's usually my fault, and trying everything before going back to the OS takes time.

The article shows nicely how "every byte matters" is false. First, it starts off by talking about the cost of a new field, when the actual topic is array-of-structs vs. struct-of-arrays. Then, this:

> How much of an impact can this have?
> Reading is:alive (1 byte) Across 1M Monsters

You aren't reading one byte here, you are reading 1M bytes! Of course, optimizing the access to 1M bytes is something to consider. Optimizing the access to one byte isn't.

The article is definitely worth reading IMHO, but it really needs a better headline!

Yes, please. Also ask yourself why that old tumble dryer, fridge, amplifier, vacuum cleaner and water cooker from 40+ years ago refuse to die while modern units die about the same week the warranty expires.

They make you buy new or else the manufacturers fear going out of business. It's just sad that this has extended to practically everything.

The JVM is currently pretty bad for memory allocation. Every object (i.e. not a primitive) has a header that IIRC is 12 bytes. But there is good news in JVM land: this will be reduced to 8 bytes in the next JVM release, and Project Valhalla will give the tools to do away with headers entirely in some cases. Project Valhalla also has tools to manage off-heap memory, which is important in many cases.

The JVM is an odd place where it requires too much heap to compete with the AOT compiled languages, but its startup time is too slow compared to interpreted languages. I think these enhancements are essential to keep the platform relevant.

So if you need speed, you just have to swallow your OO programmer's pride and put your data in arrays.

> The cost of each new field is rarely considered

Most developers, in Java and in most other languages, do not consider the cost of every field, but I can tell you that people who need micro-optimisations certainly do care, and in Java's standard library, a layout is very much a concern (except, as always, you want to optimise what really matters; there's no point in optimising something that is unlikely to be a hot spot in a real program). Sometimes, though, you want to intentionally spread out the layout to avoid cache line sharing when concurrency is involved. You will find such examples in the standard library, too.

Yes we should end the hateful rhetoric of most and least significant bytes. Every Byte Matters.

Tip: to get LN cache sizes on mac, the commmand is

    $ sysctl -a | grep "l.*cachesize" | gnumfmt --field=2 --to=si
    hw.perflevel1.l1icachesize:   132k
    hw.perflevel1.l1dcachesize:   66k
    hw.perflevel1.l2cachesize:    4,2M
    hw.perflevel0.l1icachesize:   197k
    hw.perflevel0.l1dcachesize:   132k
    hw.perflevel0.l2cachesize:      13M
    hw.l1icachesize:   132k
    hw.l1dcachesize:   66k
    hw.l2cachesize:    4,2M

And the equivalent to LEVEL1_DCACHE_LINESIZE is

    $ sysctl -a | grep hw.cachelinesize
    hw.cachelinesize: 128

That’s a great read.  I wish more people wrote like that.

Ideally you'd want to go further and actually store the is_alive as a bit mask and use SIMD instructions to filter out zeroes for example.

Idiots putting their noses where they don't belong. We do not need legislation for this. It would kill the gaming industry.

Every time I read this I think it means to "stop games that promote killing"

Oh fuck off. [1]

To elaborate, if I make a creative experience, that requires a server, and sell it to you for $70, and you play it for a year, that's your $70 of value right there. That's the moral argument.

Every single games company faced with this issue is now going to change the terms of service to note that the $70 "includes free two year subscription, paid up front!", and if the lawyers get pissy about that they'll sell two versions: one that is $0, but doesnt work until you sign up for the $70 per month subscription. That's the legal argument.

What this comes down to is "I have the right to decide what my $70 actually paid for". No you don't. What you paid for is what you paid for. Now piss off.

[1] https://tenor.com/view/oh-fuck-off-alice-kristen-bell-the-pe...

It should be legal to make and sell proprietary software with whatever server entanglements you want as long as they are clearly disclosed.

If customers and care about open source and free software games, they will support them. There is no need to dictate the funding model people want to use for art or software products. This is an industry with an unbelievable amount of competition.

Wonder why this author felt the need to destroy his article with LLM content / proofreading?

Submissions on HN with interesting titles keep ending up being revealed as AI slop halfway down towards them making their point.

Authors: you don't need this. Don't disrespect your reader's time with LLM slophancement.

> If you're a gamer who has watched a $70 purchase turn into a useless desktop icon overnight, you're entirely justified in your outrage.

If you're a gamer whose game became unplayable from cheaters running hacked clients because the game's developer decided to share their source code online, you're entirely justified in your outrage.

Proprietary software itself is regressive.

We need to get to a place where all consumer-focused apps and games include full source code, including any server necessary to play multiplayer or store cloud files.

In this I see Stop Killing Games as a half-measure that the industry supports to avoid us waking up and realizing what we should have.

It's not pee-pee — it's poo-poo.

I think they are taking a limited[1] but pragmatic approach.

[1] This is still way more than the industry would want.

If the are successful we will see quite a bit more open source.

I'm confused, does the author (or prompter, it would seem) of this article really feel entitled to game servers running indefinitely?

Stop playing games ;

Can't see how an independent developer would ever be able to do this. We need more independent things not less... this would be my concern.

Better legislation would be to force developers to at least allow people to run their own servers.

Stop killing games before they even get made by putting unnecessary burdens on developers.

Related: "The California state assembly has passed the 'Protect Our Games Act'" 29-may-2026 https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48328365 277 comments

The discussion here is amazing!  Takes me right back to the early days of Linux and discovering Free Software.  How will developers eat??  Who would write software for free?? These people clearly didn't think this through!!  Amazing to hear it all again, lol!

Let's think about it.  Free software just applies to the source code.  Artwork, logos, even trademarked names are not Free.  Support, services, and documentation can also be non Free.  This is the Red Hat business model and they make a ton of money.

Right now several very popular games are free or almost free to install and play.  The game studios make money off of in game purchases.  There's no reason that couldn't continue.

Games could be Free but connecting to the server for multiplayer would of course cost money.

What about anti cheating?  I think motivated software engineers working together around the world could come up with solutions to this.  Or (and?), good social engineers could come up with incentives/punishments that heavily encourage fair play.  I worry about this one the least.  Here's one idea that my son just made me aware of this morning.  Some game he was playing allowed him FPV of his teammates after he was eliminated from the round.  He saw his teammate could see through walls.  This angered my son and he called the teammate out.  The cheating was defeated.

Free games aren't as crazy an idea as one might think, the same way open-source projects like Blender are able to make quite a bit of money. If any of you are fans of space simulator games, I'd check out Kitten Space Agency by RocketWerkz. Their intention is to make this game not only free but DRM-free, so that users can legally put it on a thumb drive and share it with each other. You can also play it entirely offline. Because it's an educational game that's a spiritual successor to a beloved Kerbal Space Program with a significant cult following, they are hoping to continue the project via donations and by partnering with educational institutions. We'll see if this works out for them, seems a little ambitious, but I really hope they set a precedent.

Pangram flags this as 100% LLM output fwiw

I love it but how do people tolerate the Steam launcher? Why is it a requirement to launch ages old games that lost support aens ago and do not even support Windows 10/11 and the best way to launch them is under emulation or virtualization, e.g. in Windows XP, but modern Steam is not compatible with XP, so ... you're screwed?

Valve could have made `steam.dll` optional for really old games but DRM is DRM and it's here to stay.

For a multiplayer game, especially for something like an MMO where there's lots and lots of content that exists only on the server, there's an interesting question. How do you keep the game going? Do you force the company to release a full working server with all of its content? I'm not opposed to that, but it's a much taller ask than "allow the end users to keep using their clients."

But then who's allowed to run servers? Can I modify the servers and mod them and republish my changes? Does killing the game also need to cancel any copyright on any server-side assets?

But then we need to get into licensing. What if Fortnite goes offline and they publish their server assets? Does that give me the right to use Naruto and Family Guy avatars on my homebrew server?

This is basically advocating for open source games which is a completely different story than what stop killing games is trying to do.

There are tons of closed source games that have zero online component to them.

I don't see how you can actually argue that this is a good thing, especially when they say:

> The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help others.

That... basically kills the entire gaming industry.

Am I missing something serious here or is this really trying to advocate for that.

PSA for anyone considering reading it: this article is full of LLMisms and was probably generated from a prompt.

That being said, I agree with the premise. Most of those cultural preservation issues wouldn't be a problem if users had control over their computing.

The problems caused by game servers going offline aren't necessarily specific to games, and the cultural preservation aspect can be applied to other programs as well. This essay explain what those problems are in a very accessible manner: https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/who-does-that-server-really-s...

They are right that Free software is important, not only games but other stuff as well; I agree with the ideas they mention in this article.

Freedom 1 is also important for understanding the rules of the game in case it is not documented very well; changing which server it connects to is not the only issue (and a well-designed FOSS program would have an option to configure which server it connects to without needing to recompile it).

(In some cases, other people figure out the rules of the game independently and might write independent FOSS implementations (in one case, I have done this for a single-player game; other people have also done for other games). In this case, it may be less of a problem (if the FOSS implementation is actually correct and complete (and might even have less bugs than the original and/or other improvements)), and both official and unofficial implementations can continue to be used.)

> What gamers are actually experiencing is the inherent injustice of proprietary software.

The inherent injustice of developers being able to eat? The entire reason we're in this mess of a field is because of this ideological purity crusade. We could have a world where independent developers make a modest living producing good software that people pay a reasonable amouunt for, but because everyone expects everything for free, the majority of developers are forced into working for soulless corporations, who make the money that pays their salaries with the most predatory software imaginable, spamming ads, tracking, and microtransactions all over "free" software.

You also always have control over the programs that run on your own computer. Reverse engineer it if you care; the tools have always been there. The article mentions DRM, which is almost always bypassed, and private servers, which people do host -- so where's the lack of control, exactly? You just feel entitled to be given everything on a silver platter, you can't even be bothered to put effort into taking free stuff. Give me a break.

To be clear, I am fully in support of Stop Killing Games. Especially given the annoying copyright regime around hosting private servers, legislation to mandate some kind of fallback for termination is helpful. But trying to pin this cause to this horrible movement that has done 100x more harm than good? No thanks.

My father was a printer his entire life. I went with him to work one day when I was around 12 years old. He loaded up a box of, what seemed to me a random selection of flyers, booklets and other printed goods in his car, and together we drove to the National Archives (in Sweden).

He explained to me that every media artifact of cultural significance would be stored there in three (I believe) copies for future generations to enjoy, or researchers, or historians.

I was given a tour by an archivist there and this became a core memory of mine.

I was always at unease growing up, wondering what would happen to video games when they no longer became popular. Would I be able to enjoy them when I got older? Would my children ever be able to play the games that shaped my teenage years?

The discussion around the matter of Stop Killing Games always devolves to one around free labour or around infringing the rights of the creator, but at some point, when a game, or a film, or a book is no longer monetised, makers of cultural works should be obliged to archive and ensure that our shared cultural heritage and identity is preserved for the future.

Film makers, authors, printers, ad agencies, music producers, and many others are already obliged to do this in many countries.

Why should video game producers be exempt?

It's just better for all of us, and our children, if these works of art are preserved, and that at an insignificant effort and cost, compared to the cost of developing it.

If I subscribe to a service for $M/mo, I expect that service to work as long as I pay for it. If the maintainer of that service decides to turn it off and no longer charge me money, then so be it. I subscribed with eyes open about the lifetime that $M got me.

If I buy a product for $N one-time charge, I expect that product to work basically forever, until it physically breaks or wears out. I have woodworking tools over 50 years old. I would never expect Craftsman to sneak into my garage one day and destroy them because "they're old and unsupported and I should just buy new ones." I don't expect Toyota to repossess my car because it's hard to supply parts for old cars and they really just need me to buy another one.

So why is it OK for a software developer to just arbitrarily decide to flip a switch and remove my ability to use a product I paid for?

EDIT: I realize I am arguing for subscription pricing for software, which I am generally against. But for a game that requires a server operating in order to function, perhaps subscription pricing is more appropriate at least for that kind of game. It's still not appropriate for games or tools that run natively and don't have a significant reason for their logic to reside in a server.

[dead]

[dead]

Another mathematician already predicted this, but you didn't listen. His name was Theodore Kaczynski. It's time to reap what you've sown.

[dead]

I think we're all under-indexing on how important it is going to be to be able to play-test an agent's changes before shipping it as a hedge against slop. I don't think people will do it unless it feels effortless, like clicking a preview link from a GitHub PR. If there's any friction, people will just click merge PR and move on with their life and your product-level slop will acccummulate.

I think high-taste products require you to actually use the thing that was built to feel the gaps in your spec.

I routinely find I am doing something dead simple that an agent will one-shot, e.g. add a new sort by option in the panel that lists a user's Linear tasks. If I looked at the PR diff I'd immediately think it was perfect and ship it. It's only when I actually get in there and play around with a dynamic UI that I realize, "you know this option really belongs at the top" or "hm, there's enough options here now that this dropdown feels cramped and we might need to consider another option". Simple examples obviously but the principle is that when I am landing the last 10% of a fix or a feature that when I need to interact and play-test. At the speed agents can generate fixes to new bugs or customer requests, I am bottle necked just doing that last 10% of steering and even the basic git mechanics to try something locally are enough to get me to not want to do it.

Right now, it seems like the state of the art is to review PR diffs and just merge them in or if you are more sophisticated have your agent generate screenshots or screen recordings. Screenshots and images are moving in the right direction but if you are building something interactive, you've really got to interact with it to know if it feels great.

My dream was to start my day with an agent having handled every bug and small enhancement request that came my way that day, worked on, and ready for my review, so I could spend an hour each day just steering them to the finish line.

I could do this linearly, picking off a branch an agent worked on, testing it and iterating but most of these small fixes each day aren't big brain stuff, I can effectively multi-task them but when I've tried doing it on my own machine it's either worktree hell, git gymnastics, or agents deadlocking - one agent wants to self test with Chrome MCP but can't cause another is editing code causing hot reloads.

I ended up building a Desktop app version of what OP posted to do this for myself and my team at Sunsama, it's called Macro:
- Website: https://macro.land 
- Demo: https://www.loom.com/share/89c273e3a92d45cfb6860790d7b78bf6

I had a couple other specific needs that these repos don't cover:
- I want complete control of what MCP tools my team uses and the ability to control their input/output etc e.g. I don't want someone using the Intercom MCP to accidentally reply to a customer with an agent. 
- I don't want my engineers spending time configuring all the boring stuff (preview urls, mcps, chrome mcp, etc)
- I wanted the ability to steer agents to the finish line together. In Macro, any user can join the chat and steer the agent e.g. a colleague with UI taste jumps into tweak the last bits
- I want to see common failure agentic failure cases across my team so I can improve our Claude.md and agentic practices so all work flowing through one interface allows that

interesting project
does this have some form of isolation?

[dead]

[dead]

[flagged]

This is all contingent on AI forays into mathematics being slop and low quality. However it's clear that recent AI models are capable of genuine mathematical achievements which surpass the frontier of what humans are able to accomplish (wrt the unit distance Erdos problem).

The issue is, how is a group of intellectuals, whose identity derives from their ability to do something rare, useful, and requires many years to get good at, react when a machine can produce all of their useful output nearly automatically, can verify its own outputs, and is getting better exponentially? It is the complete annihilation of one's sense of value and purpose when the binding element to your culture is commodified.

I think there will be a lot of arguments trying to claim that the point of mathematics is curiosity, or that there is always some ineffable human element that AI can't replicate, but I fail to see how somehow these wishy-washy human centered values somehow mean anything compared to the amoral pursuit of mathematical truth, which has nothing to do with humans.

It's just that we humans happened to be the only beings in the universe good at math until ~2025. Now there is another species which can do many of the things we do, and it is not bound by the size of the human brain, our short term memories, or the architectural limits of biological computation. To imagine that humans would retain supremacy in this very un-human like discipline seems like wishful thinking.

I did a similar thing but with devcontainer and codespaces.

My project is kinda sorta similar but uses Incus (LXC) and Caddy:
https://github.com/jgbrwn/vibebin

[dead]

[flagged]

Thanks for posting your project & congrats on shipping.

I have to confess, I’m struggling to see how this beats having my agent write 100 lines of shell script in a couple of seconds to do just the subset of this I need..

Would be neat to be able to read about that on its landing page!

Actual "warning":

https://leidendeclaration.ai/

Far more interesting as it's outlaying a set of principles for using AI to augment human involvement and science, rather than replacement.

[dupe] https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48380670

Eh.  This isn't "AI" or language models masquerading as intelligence.  I submit that this is actually the long tail of the internet and the decision to rest on the laurels of peer reviewed submissions rather than advancing the field to better disseminate knowledge.

The barrier to entry just got lowered.  This has happened many times before in history.  We just end up with fewer of what David Graeber would call "bullshit jobs."

From the article:

> However, the declaration argues math is more than a machine for producing correct answers. The discipline, its authors believe, is a deeply human endeavor built on creativity, understanding, collaboration, and the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake.

Generation X was the last generation that had 'general knowledge', as in an abundance of fairly useful information stored in 'grey matter' that could be recalled quickly. When search engines came along there really wasn't much need to know anything since most things could be looked up. However, you still had to think.

With LLMs, thinking is kind-of optional. This really is an existential threat to our intelligence since 'use it or lose it applies'. I am glad these mathematicians are doing their duty as canary in the coal mine.

As a mathematician by trade I think they’re overblowing it. You can choose to use it or not. I choose not to because I enjoy the process. But I’m not doing formal research or getting paid to do it these days.

I will note that the average corporate mathematical modelling is usually a fucking circus so adding AI might make it better.

AI is the interpolation of the human corpus. Is it suprising AI recombines sucessfully where human attention has not explored all plausible solutions? N,o not especially. The key fallacy is that AI is other than human. This is really no different from computer proofs, e.g. 4 color theorem. The fact the prompt is not linked to the solution by individual human intention alone does not make the solution less human in origin.

Isn't the whole point of the field of mathematics in a theoretical sense the pursuit of formal solutions?

So, why would they be advocating for limitations on arriving at solutions?

I will argue that AI and flood of low quality slop makes genuine human work more valuable, not less.

The ability to clearly outmatch trillion dollar machines is a very unique satisfaction. I even write ordinary internet comments with an intention to make them clearly better and more fun to read than boring Claude output.

I still don't understand how "AI" is ready for serious use beyond entertainment purposes

Every time I ask ChatGPT to make a table for a subject I know well, I will find an error in one of the results and it is very confident about it until I question it in detail

Every time I ask ChatGPT for nutritional breakdown of some dense food source and give it a quantity like 8 ounces and ask for the weight of each ingredient, the weights will be wrong and add up to more than the original weight of 8 ounces

These are variations of the old "how many Rs in strawberry" problem, it's still not solved, "AI" cannot reassemble a complex problem properly

A lot of what it tells me in detail about some subjects sounds suspiciously like Reddit posts reassembled out of order

Are maths AI models now using "tools", aka formal solvers?

I understand that the "language interface" of a "maths AI" could be some specialized trained LLM (Large Language Model) that to convey, with human language, "high level" mathematical mental contructs and intuition.

But then, you would need some models which does the reasoning using formal mathematical solvers (and probably a ton of "scratch" memory, it would be interesting to see how those models end up storing "mathematical" lema data). I guess you can have ML (Machine Learning) for those models on 'general maths', but also we can think about more mathematically focused ML for a specific problem, area, etc.
And in the end, ML for maths, would it be mostly permutations of truth statements fed to a neural net?

When we were talking about "AI", one decade ago, that was what most had in mind (it may help a bit in physics, but it seems less likely, because reality/experiments are hard to teach to "AI"s).

If that becomes a reality (aka easy hardware access, and some "working" models), mathematicians will have to be as good in maths than in maths ML. And this is were there is an issue: training honestely good mathematical human brains may become very hard with some broad availability of good general maths reasoning "AIs".

In a year, none of this will really matter. Intelligence is now a scalable resource independent of biological constraints. Everyone will use it because the system will no longer afford them the luxury of time. In a decade (maybe sooner), references won’t matter either.

"""
However, the declaration argues math is more than a machine for producing correct answers. The discipline, its authors believe, is a deeply human endeavor built on creativity, understanding, collaboration, and the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake. Those values often clash with the incentives driving AI development. “The tech industry proceeds in accordance with commercial logic, which is antithetical to the values of mathematics,” declaration co-author Michael Harris of Columbia University told The New York Times.
"""

I mean, what field doesn't? Everyone works to make money.

Slightly unrelated, but, their website "https://leidendeclaration.ai/" itself gives an eerie feeling of being built by Sonnet. That color scheme and the layout is what Sonnet chooses by default most of the times.

Mathematician Ken Ono (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ken_Ono) gives a well nuanced viewpoint on AI in Mathematics (and more) - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jGZOi-7haCw

He states that he struggled to come up with problems which would be challenging for AI to solve (at the below site) and thus forced to accept that mathematicians have to rethink their profession.

FrontierMath: Benchmarking AI against advanced mathematical research by Epoch AI - https://epoch.ai/frontiermath

As a follow up to the above, see "First Proof: Mathematicians Putting AI to the Test" featuring eminent mathematicians - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AaICCTpkI7Q

Why is it wrong to expect humans (mathematicians) to adapt here? AI is already producing solutions to problems that humans could not find. Culture holds value until it does not.

> AI-generated papers could overwhelm peer-review systems with low-quality work

That's not a problem unique to math, or even to academia. It's a problem in every context in human life where people communicate via written documents.

HN title mangling strikes again. “How embryos shape their limbs” and “Embryos shape their limbs” are completely different titles for a discovery.

> However, the declaration argues math is more than a machine for producing correct answers.

There might be more to maths than that, but that is definitely the most important part.
I love science funding. But not because it's a jobs program for nerds.

Accelerationists may argue that the eroding of proper attribution and proof verification by humans is a meaningless short term struggle of a dying field.

Mathematics seems to be entering an era where human + machine maximizes performance, much like chess in the 1990s. However, imagine a future where even talented mathematicians are nothing but noise in the machine (as is the case in chess now). A future where AI generates and verifies proofs without humans in the loop. Where the mathematics may be beyond human comprehension.

In that future, does it matter that early career mathematicians are inhibited by these developments? Perhaps not. Programming faces the same issue. As AI crawls up the competence ladder, does it matter that fewer people have opportunities to develop the skillset of a senior engineer? Perhaps not.

[dead]

Anyone else draw similarities with this and the artists and authors who complained when gen ai first came out.  I think a lot of people don't realise the disruption ai will cause to many industries, until its directly impacting them, basically personal fable at scale (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_fable).

I'm curious about whether we will start discovering new maths in the next few years that provide insight into unsolved CS or Physics problems!

For every interesting problem AI solves there are a long tail of really dumb things that AI performs that humans would never do. Some days I am in awe of one-shot magic eight-ball output and other days I'm so frustrated by the sheer stupidity of what it produces. It remains to be seen whether that long tail of stupidity can ever be resolved in the current form of LLMs.

> “The tech industry proceeds in accordance with commercial logic, which is antithetical to the values of mathematics,” declaration co-author Michael Harris of Columbia University

As a former physicist and current data scientist/engineer, I know for a fact that commercial utility drives math research and researchers.

Math is a tool to solve problems. Some mathematicians might only love the process of using the tool, but commercial logic absolutely drives mathematician attention to develop commercially useful tools.

I wanted another multi-part hardware synth, so I thought it would be fun to see what I could come up with using the parts I already had, particularly the touchscreen.

Loosely inspired by Norns, Brume is a four-part multi-timbral synthesizer that runs on a Raspberry Pi Compute Module 5. It has four synth engines and six voices per part, a shared filter section feeding an effects chain, a sandboxed Lua scripting layer, and a 10.1-inch touchscreen UI. A single USB cable presents the device to a host computer as a class-compliant audio and MIDI interface ala Elektron Overbridge.

Quick BoM to get started: cm5+carrier, any of the endless 10-inch hdmi touchscreens for RPI, and a midi controller. Novation Launch Control XL 3 and Korg nanoKONTROL2 are supported out-of-the box.

* While you can run this on a Raspberry Pi 5, Pi 5s don't expose USB OTG. The carrier board is what makes the class-compliant Audio+MIDI over USB work.

I hope this can be fun for others!

https://brume.aftertone.co
https://github.com/aftertonesignal/brume

I don't understand why, if you want to use this, would you run it on RPi instead of just on your computer? Is it for realtime guarantees (ie. no OS updating in the background)?

My vague prediction right now is that in five years LLMs will be heavily used by universities in grant-funded math research but nobody else will be able to afford it, much like supercomputer clusters 25 years ago.

>and the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake

Except when someone hands you a magic button that just gives you knowledge?[at least in the framing of this "warning"] Then it's about peoples' livelihoods, about "culture", etc?

"Computer" used to be a job. Did science on the whole lose or gain by making these clerks obsolete?

I see any kind automation as a good thing as long as it is reliable enough. We stopped copying books manually a long time ago, and the craft was lost, most of us can't do complex calculations manually etc. but it does not matter as long as we can rely on calculators and computers to do it.

At this stage, the current wave of AI is not reliable enough that it would be safe to lose the abilities it can replace.

The failures modes are often turned into memes and jokes, but they are the thing we should really pay attention to, IMO.

One of the reasons why over a decade ago, I dived deeply into the OSS world instead of mathematics was that it was so much more accessible: there were docs for everything, and I got direct feedback when something worked vs when something didn't work. Most of my questions had answers on stack overflow, and once I joined Rust (which back then in 2015 didn't have a big stackoverflow presence) I had a community who answered them for me (and in maths I didn't have that).

AI makes the math world more accessible than before. If you have a question about a proof in the lecture, you can just ask it. Of course, one can't trust it blindly, but fundamentally it's amazing.

I think that's a good thing, but of course this means that a lot has to change in culture and behaviors, also in the research world.

The software engineering world is more or less in the same situation, it's also changing. But for now I think it still holds true that someone who knows maths plus an LLM is better than someone who doesn't know maths plus LLM. At least in software it does.

> For years, AI researchers have used math as a proving ground for their models.

For years?

Much of math (or science) research has the strange quality of being mostly curiosity-driven, but having giant benefits that occasionally spin out to the public.

Some questions are more urgent and practical. My feeling is that the more directly practical a question is, the more likely the research community is to support AI usage in that question.

The annoying thing about recent AI advances is that they target questions on the wrong end of the spectrum: Erdos problems are exactly the sort of "useless" questions that people might answer purely for the love of the game. The sort of questions that a young person might cut their teeth on and gain confidence.

Solving questions like these automatically, I think, is not good for the long-term health of research. At least for the foreseeable future you still would like people to become interested and develop skills in these fields. These developments, and especially how they are presented, directly discourage that.

They've found some real chemical P and S for the turing patterns

Very cool and love the animation, but does not seem to work well with beards :D

Math for non mathematicians is a tool.  Math for mathemeticians is an art in the same way an artisan takes pride in his work.

That's why there's a disconnect when you go from math for engineers to the stuff above it.  It feels less useful and very different

dig the idea.

I've said it before, but there's a massive risk that we simply stop educating researchers. So much of a Ph.D revolves around the person learning how to do research.

They learn how to read papers and literature rigorously. They get low-hanging fruits to practice on, which can take months. Their funding doesn't come from thin air either.

So what happens when the group leaders would rather spend money on compute, and get models to solve the low-hanging fruit? Which the models could very well do in mere hours, compared to months.

Nor does it help that publishing is the number 1 measure in academia. Furthermore, the access to compute and capital could end up be the defining factor between researchers and research groups.

It is basically the "junior problem", but even more severe.

This seems a decent introduction. The only thing mentioned that I wasn't really aware of is the effect of the tongue in addition to the lips on the embouchure of higher notes. Can anyone recommend some more info on that?

"The trombone is the only brass instrument in a classical orchestra" is a statement that requires further support.

> But, how can a trombone ever be better than the piano when there’s so many variables? Well, unlike a piano, where each key produces a fixed pitch, a trombone lets me subtly adjust every note as I play.

Thanks, but I'll stick to my keyboard's pitch bend control.

The trombone's great expressiveness comes at a steep learning cost.

If you play piano you should find a tuner who does something better than equal temperament.  When you accept that changing keys will change the tone of the song you can get a lot better music.  You don't need to go to just temperament (and since you still need octave stretch it wouldn't be ideal anyway - though if you can live with playing music in exactly one key it is nice).

I tuned my piano to EBVTIII and I like it.  (well I tuned 3 notes and then got my son interested and he tuned the rest).  It isn't as hard to tune a piano as professionals make it out.  However it takes me about 5x as long so if you can find a good tuner I'd call it worth it.

Everything I know about trombones I know from the game Trombone Champ.

It's a good game for every aspiring trobonist (or people just remotely interested in music-related video games)

No one has yet mentioned that getting good tone quality on a trombone is perhaps its biggest challenge.

The same as true with violin and viola. The older and more primitive and instrument is, the more work you have to do.

Contrast this with the trombone’s cousins, the baritone and euphonium, which have infinitely better tone quality with little to no effort at all.

I will get downvoted for this, but modern players like Trombone Shorty have nowhere near the tone of players like Tommy Dorsey. this is clearly a matter of preference because he could nail that smooth smooth sound if you wanted to. I just don’t like the blatty sound.

[dead]

There isn't a single image of the device on mobile, I was confused because I thought this was a VST

There’s also a ‘trigger trombone’ variant, where pulling a trigger routes the air through more tubing, bringing a different pitch.

Source:  I’m a sponsor of the trombone arts.  My kid played trombone in high school.

I loved playing trombone in school. It's such a simple mechanism, it invites a lot of curiousity, and this piece captures that well. Instruments like piano, violin, and guitar are very visual, essentially wysiwyg. Instruments like saxophones, clarinets, flutes, take a long to mentally map and reason through (this combination of keys achieves note X). Trumpets, and other 3 valve instruments map exactly to trombone positions! Eg. no-valves = 1st position, 1st valve is 3rd position, 1+2 is 4th position. But visually you don't see this, and it doesn't invite the curiousity. Trombone super unique in that you get a little wysiwyg, but you have to square that with embouchure. But learning trombone, and then mapping that knowledge to a euphonium, trumpet, tuba, etc, gives you a knowledge about that instrument (eg ok if note X is 1st valve, and note X+1 is 1+2, then i know adding 2-to-1 adds a half step, because position 3 is a half step from position 4).

One trombone feature not mentioned here is that the length of the pipe apparently affects the timing enough that they have to compensate for it.

This is your reminder to stop touching the bell when playing third position.

tromboner

Oh, by the way...

Pink Trombone

https://dood.al/pinktrombone/

https://github.com/imaginary/pink-trombone

Evy Kassirer - !!Con 2019 - Reverse engineering your mouth! by Evy Kassirer

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTwjirrCuDE&t=34s

Zack Quattan - Pink Trombone Playlist - Gamepad / MIDI / Machine Learning / Phoneme Classifier / etc

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LflxVULOtLs&list=PLzgiV7-SLJ...

https://deepwiki.com/zakaton/Pink-Trombone

pink trombone controlled by max msp via OSC

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i7eJ209ayFw

Circuit Bending - Pink Trombone "Speech Synthesis"

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l_qd116njyk

How to break Pink Trombone

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s4FWmlJPxsE

I recently learned that valve trombones exist [0], where there is no slide and the notes are selected via valve-presses like a trumpet.

[0] https://usa.yamaha.com/products/musical_instruments/winds/tr...

> This system ensures that every key and every note sounds equally good, but it sacrifices the purity of just intonation.

Bach wrote two books of the Well-Tempered Clavier over 300 years ago that explain musically why that sacrifice is worth it:

* Book I: pick a prelude/fugue in any key and it will sound ok on a keyboard that you tuned ahead of time

* Book II: modulate anywhere you want[1] in the middle of a piece and it will sound ok

That same system works all the way through high-Romantic Wagnerian operas and atonal pieces of the 20th century. Use equal temperament and let the singer/violinist/horn player "sweeten" a third by ear where applicable.

Edit: well, anywhere Bach wanted. Hee hee.

Work stuff stays on work property.

Home stuff stays on home property.

Work wants me to use a phone for work, they get me a work phone. Or I dont do it.

Why? If you have ever had to go through discovery, Youd know. Company I worked for got sued by Oracle for bullshit licensing (aws RDS licensed oracle is evidently NOT for commercial use, sigh).

And know what they do for all engineers maintaining? They subpoena EVERYTHING.

If you did personal stuff on work machine, your personal stuff is now in lawsuit scope.

Mark Zuckerberg is as he always was, a sociopath

Surely they can't be serious?

[dead]

[dead]

[dead]

A couple of comments:

> But any instrument that’s not the piano or guitar can actually make micro-adjustments while playing a song

You can make micro adjustments on a guitar, but only to be sharper[1]

> But for now, one obvious advantage is that this allows us to do “real” glissandos, where the pitch smoothly transitions from one note to another

For a famous example of a "fake" glissando, the opening clarinet solo of Rhapsody in Blue, which, as typically performed, is rather smooth from D5 to C6[2]

1: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/String_bending

2: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ykFWUEHhkMw

oooh 30 whole minutes. This is so repulsive.

The best part about playing trombone in high school band was not having to learn concert pitches. Concert F? I play an F. Concert Bb? I play Bb. Suck it, trumpets!

I've been trying to square the physics and my experience.

Pedal B flat is the fundamental, low B flat is the 2x, F 3x, mid B flat the 4x, D the 5X, high F is 6X, G half sharp is 7X and high B flat is 8X.

The position your music teacher most likely will have told you to adjust is 2nd position - you play it slightly sharper for an A vs the E or C sharp it's also used for.

Why is that?   It's the major 3rd that has the largest variation between just and equal temperament.   The A is often a 3rd against the F, is that why?

But it seems to me that it's all the notes on the D embouchure that will be off -- 1st position D on the trombone is 5X the fundamental, so it's justly tuned, not equally tuned, so shouldn't it be the one that needs the most adjustment?   I guess all wind instruments have this problem, so maybe I don't notice because usually I'm playing in a wind band with very few equally tempered instruments like piano, guitar and glockenspiel?

Meta has written itself into a solid tyrant role. A million aspiring rebels are happy to play along.

[dead]

Who in their right minds would trust this...?

Quite objectively, the track record for management demonstrating bad faith and lying about this is deep and long.

[dead]

I think you'll enjoy this: an acoustically-accurate trombone in the web browser.  https://github.com/bignimbus/trombone.js

One of my favourite albums is Stuart Dempster's Underground Overlays From The Cistern Chapel.

A group of trombonists all playing in a giant underground water tank with incredibly long reverb.

https://youtube.com/watch?v=4tvMp4XDICU

[dead]

For those who played in high school and then put your instrument down for 40 years, you can pick it back up and play again!  One of the great joys of my life now is playing trombone in a local band with other people just like me--relearning their instruments and making new friends.

New Horizons Band:
https://newhorizonsmusic.org/Find_a_Group

Is this even legal in the EU?

[dead]

[dead]

> new controls will allow employees to pause the data collection for "up to 30 minutes at a time" as well as request exemptions from the initiative altogether.

If they deny your exemption, make a tool that every 30 minutes fakes a bunch of nonsensical keystrokes for a few seconds, then automatically request another 30 minute pause. If they ever find out and confront you about it, say you’ve always heard Meta leadership encourages “moving fast and breaking things” and “asking for forgiveness instead of permission”, so you were only following the company’s ethos.

Or, you know, quit Facebook if you have the means.

[flagged]

Meanwhile… Alan Dye breathes a sigh of relief and resumes another 30 minute session of Minesweeper.

Is it possible they feel threatened their jobs are at stake?

Somehow this is way more dystopian than not having an opt out at all.

I'm looking forward to the HN story sometime next year about employees being let go for opting out of tracking.

So much wild and insulting about this, but one thing is just the idea that it’s somehow more efficient to capture raw HCI data to train models to interact with computers better than humans can, rather than just doing the work to improve the software and interaction models in the first place. So much of the coming compute overbuild is going to be wasted on the stupidest ideas.

Man I was at a job where you had to install TimeBro and all 8 hours had to be accounted for, was annoying af thank f I don't work there anymore

Can't you just use your own personal device and avoid the tracking entirely?

Meta-stasis

fuck you zuck. no one likes you anyways

Just don't blame me if your coding agent curses CEO and bypasses presubmits with dirty hacks a year later, I never volunteered to be a role model.

The corporate overlords are becoming too benevolent these days! Why not monitor employees' thoughts in real time?

we laugh and make fun and shake our heads at this. We did the same when Elon did what he did during the Twitter take over. Then every other company followed suit.

This is coming for all of us.

Back to work slaves!

A taste of their own medicine. Turns out it is bitter.

If you are wondering why they are doing things like this at FAANG, its because of this: YouTube /watch?v=YTuM-GS8Qak

"Trust us, we're not tracking you for the next 30 mins. Do whatever you want on your screen in that time. We won't peek."

I used to work for a oil company, and 15 years ago they were discussing this idea of installing sensors on desk which they wanted to use for practical reasons: Instead of having to walk across the building to see someone, you could simply check on some internal website if they were at their desk. No wasted trip!

But that idea was shot down real fast by the unions, who informed the employer that it with great likelihood also would clash with data protection laws, and GDPR (this was not in the US). So it was quickly abandoned. Among workers that was one of the most dystopian ideas we had heard of.

How considerate

The cynic in me says Meta is culling the herd.

do the meta employees that code these stuff also get tracked?

After beta-testing widespread privacy invasive software on billions of their users, the employees now complain about the same technology being used against them.

That's just too bad and Meta does not care. If these employees don't like it, just leave Meta. (They won't).

It's very shameful that this company continues to exist.

That's very generous.

The tracking is horrible. I often leave my computer for up to 30 minutes to brainstorm or think about a difficult problem. I do this even more now with AI than I did before because the nature of my work has changed and requires more foresight. So the idea that my mouse movements are tracked would force me into counter-productive patterns and narrow-minded thinking by staying at the computer.

The best ideas I've had came to me overnight or over the weekend while my mind was at rest. Those ideas are those that keep paying dividends.

But I also need frequent breaks day-to-day, especially if using an LLM to code; I need to step back and refine my approach. I don't want to let the LLM seamlessly vibe-code me into a bad decision.

I've never met anybody who could come up with good ideas in a rapid-fire way. The stress associated with the need to churn out a steady stream of work makes you fall prey to sunk cost fallacy because you don't pause to reflect on anything you do and it gets worse over time. You end up creating unnecessary problems without even realising it because your mind is subconsciously trying to fill the time with work. The goal takes a backseat.

The taboo is awful because I see the effect in my junior colleagues sometimes, leading to over-engineering and I just want to tell them to take more frequent breaks to let the idea rest but it feels like something I'm not supposed to say.

I don't know why anyone would accept a job there at this point. I mean, I never would have worked there because I didn't care about the mission (never been on any of the major platforms). But around a decade ago, when they were actively poisoning the mood around tech (and I was very angry that they were gonna cause the public to turn on us), I really would have thought so. But people want paychecks that allow a certain standard of living, so… I could understand.

If you take a job there today, what the hell is wrong with you?

AI? What happened to the Metaverse? I thought that was the future, mr Zuckerberg? What happened?

Meta where anything goes absolutely for making money...

Working as a dev at Meta has become like working a call center. Zuck lost the plot.

Just enough time to...

This does make me chuckle. The workers for facebook inc. who make write the very software that spies on everybody is up in arms about being spied on. They forget what a grifter that the Zuck is.

Do toilet breaks count towards the 30 minutes?

I'm sure sleazy Zuck doesn't get tracked.

1. Continue tracking me
2. Pause for 1800 seconds

If this is how they treat their employees, I hate to think how they treat their customers.

Why does this feel worse?

I suggest they opt out of the whole 24 hours

This degree of worker surveillance ought to be considered an active 2A situation.

When the market turns (and it will regardless of how loudly AI cheerleaders proclaim otherwise), I just hope engineers as a whole remember this despicable behaviour by Zuckerberg.

The silver lining(If you can call it that) of the latest slump in tech employment is that it has laid bare the reality of the tech oligarchs. Someone should set up a website to catalog this behaviour so that these corporations and leaders can't easily sweep this under the rug in the future.

I hate it when companies use this kind of trick to get around legislation or privacy concerns.

"Employees are able to turn off tracking".

Sure, but there is a power imbalance, and employees will come to understand ( although never stated in any handbook ) that the rate at which they disable it will be taken into account in performance reviews.

Just like "unlimited PTO" is not a benefit, because employees self-regulate their use down to less than they'd get if they negotiated a fixed amount.

It's a twisted legal trick to get out of an obligation.

how is meta different from google? im confused

There is not enough pushback against this.

I don't think anyone is fully comfortable with it but it is considered "standard practice".

It wasn't such a huge issue until recently because processing all of this was a burden, but obviously this can be automated very well now.

The trend is genuinely dystopian.

Given it's Meta, I'd put roughly zero trust in the opt out actually being respected.

Dystopia is a real place.

Similar to the LLM hype, the point of this program is to demonstrate labor's fealty to capital.

The message is: Fuck you if you're a software developer. Your skills are irrelevant. You should be grateful that we haven't made conditions even worse.

Reminds me of 1984 when Winston gets surprised that O'Brien can turn off the telescreen.

This is great, I hope the people at Meta suffer as much as possible while working for them. They should introduce mandatory eyeball sanders next.

The movie Antitrust but on steroids in real life. Also the Crossover white collar sweatshop ended up as trendsetter.

That's generous!

In many cases they pay really well I heard, so I'm not too bothered by it. If you are a high paid specialist and you do not like how you are treated, you can go and find another, friendlier, job.

For low paid workers I have more sympathy: if you have no options but to be tracked and pee in bottles and ... whatnot; that's just sad. We need better labour law to protect them.

Also all corporates that did anti-unionizing and never got punished for this are  simply criminals operating above the law at this point. We know many FAANG++ did it.

Meta isn't alone in the strategy, but are probably the most effective in implementation. JPMC has extensive monitoring and I don't think they have any restriction.

They need to unionize.

In 1984, high ranking members of the party could turn off their telescreens for 30 minutes without suspicion.

Sick company environment.

30 minutes of freedom! Hell yeah, sounds like a great place to work.

What a wonderful world we live in. And to think that all of this is largely self-inflicted...

If you don't walk out after such rules, then what would you make to do so?

Is it not obvious to the Meta employees that the purpose of this data is to replace them? Combined with the job cuts... surprised they haven't revolted or unionized already

Is Metas tracking more obscene than the traditional tracking suites at large corps like Crowdstrike? 
In 2017 I recall on launching a tor browser and in 15 mins physical security came to me that something fishy was going on.

Right.

Meta’s biggest culture problem is definitely “not enough masculine energy”.

At what point does this company undo their name change that was aligned with them pivoting to the metaverse and virtual reality?

Am I the only one that sees the irony of people working for creepy adtech like meta having to endure being tracked?

30 whole minutes?! How generous.

UNION.

Dave Eggers' novel _The Circle_ (2013) is looking more and more prophetic every day.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Circle_(Eggers_novel)

I think it's appropriate that a surveillance company should surveil its employees so they can get a taste of what they are contributing to.

Good enough for a relaxing sh*t break.

Devious. Its somehow more oppressive than the potential of constant surveillance. It says: we are watching you the rest of the time.

See also: Learned Helplessness; Stockholm Syndrome.

It's to allow employees to confidentially browse the soft-core-like reels while at work. Nobody wants to be tracked while doing that.

Simple solution: unionize! The rest of the world has figured this out. Union tarrifs don't need to dictate salary bands, often they don't. More often they regulate time off, sick pay, that there are processes in place, and that you have escalation paths to negotiate on your behalf on things like this.

The best part? Strikes work!

> Now, according to Reuters, external, new controls will allow employees to pause the data collection for "up to 30 minutes at a time" as well as request exemptions from the initiative altogether.

30 minutes of opt out should be enough for anyone. Let's all praise Meta and Mark Zuckerberg for their thoughtfulness, kindness, and empathy!

If you are being tracked all day long, just create a lot of discovery for lawyers in the future: "Mark asked me to x", "Mark asked me to do y".

These meta articles make me think of how any tech company - even small startups - can so easily paint a picture of an individual or team performance with a frontier LLM.  I use codex myself to remind me what I did over the last 6 months (look over JIRA, GitHub and my own notes) since I have to write a self evaluation.  It always comes down to company culture to determine how this info will be used.  Meta never struck me as a place I’d like to spend a lot of my life for culture reasons.

This reminds me, back in the day I had a short term contract in Austin, TX with MCI (a now defunct telco). The site was a call center and the project was working on their friends and family product.

I remember feeling outraged for the poor schmucks working at the adjacent call center. They had metered "bt time" - that is bath room time -- and were constantly monitored. This is early 90s (the golden age of being a programmer in US, imo) and our field was fun, lucrative, and really quite unlike any other whitish collar profession. Who would have thunk it that one day we would end up being treated like 'lowly and disposable' call center human resources.

Eating your own dog food Facebookers! U reap what you sow.

I mean I would want to do this when I do confidential stuff like HR and Payroll. I would be interested above what level are employees are exempt from this. I don't think Meta wants to train their AI on their own C-Level execs but who knows...it's Meta

Monitoring employee at work is a shady business .. we all should say no to it.

If I ran a mass surveillance and manipulation company that's not known for great ethics, and I managed to hire tons of people despite that reputation, then probably at least a few of those hires will be unethical/disloyal enough to someday do something against me.

So, whenever one of my employees opts out of surveillance for 30 minutes... is exactly when they secretly get maximum surveillance attention.  Because what is that weasel up to.

Humorously, when an employee thinks they are off-the-record is actually when my special security unit is operating off-the-record.  With questionable methods.  (On-the-record, they spend all their time making employee badges and infosec reminder posters for the kitchenettes.)

I have a friend that worked in NYC in part of the DOE (not a teacher, but something adjacent). Its a union position, so during COVID when everyone was getting remote, her profession got remote too.

53 minutes per week.

53 minutes. Not even a full hour. It was specific enough that you knew some bureaucrat went out of their way to hyper optimize this, creating a maximum slap-in-your-face effect.

This 30 minutes thing feels the same way.

The people who created this policy are almost certainly exempt from it.

By sitting in the alcove, and keeping well back, Winston was able to remain outside the range of the telescreen, so far as sight went. He could be heard, of course, but so long as he stayed in his present position he could not be seen. It was partly the unusual geography of the room that had suggested to him the thing that he was now about to do.

And who knows who gets to see the tick against your name as "opted out".

I get that the money is good but holy hell I don't understand why anyone still works at Meta.

No one mentioned Orwell so far?

Well, in 1984 the protagonist learns after a while, that inner party members had the amazing perk of being able to turn off the mandatory surveillance screen for up to 30 minutes. But I guess in this case the workers still will be tracked by the usual Meta tracking that applies to everyone surfing the internet.

Very generous and 30 minutes more than Meta allows non-employees to opt out of Meta's tracking. A clear company benefit!

I worked on Child Safety for a time at Meta ... I'm guessing all of the people working on that will be exempted, lest they train the model on actual CSAM.

So employees unhappy about being tracked are expected to explicitly draw attention to the times their doing something where they’re uncomfortable about being monitored?

This has got to be something a blue haired HR person came up with

Part of me says that they have no grounds to be upset considering how much large scale surveillance and tracking they impose on their users and so many other people online. (The rest of me understands that this is bogus and that it's important to nip this in the bud now)

Maybe have some respect for yourself and others and opt out of working at Meta.

If your company provides a phone or computer, you should never use it for anything other than work. Not because of any moral obligation, but because it's a big security risk for you.

Sometimes using a company device is even a risk for the company... They shoot themselves in the foot by allowing IT to silently remote takeover/view a device, or install key loggers.

O'Brien turning off the Telescreen.

"You can..."

"Yes...we are allowed that privilege"

Broken record here to announce that there are countries that have labor laws that protect employees, which you can take an example from or move to.

If they want to know what you were doing for 20 min take a picture of an unflushed toilet each day, it will put an end to that right away

The world smallest violin will be rendered in React... Why do these employees get this generous toggle, when we got zero minutes and a shadow profile?

But the opt outs will, of course, be tracked. Choose to do it and it will go on your performance review.

Could anything be more ironic, the employees that work to track every person in the world are now being tracked themselves :)

2015 satirical article from The Onion: "HR Director Reminds Employees That Any Crying Done At Office Must Be Work-Related."

I have a serious question to anyone working at Meta and reading this: HOW can you still work at this company!?

Why don't you quit this very toxic company, and start working at another place or even on your own? I genuinely don't understand...

Let just Meta die!

It's too expensive.

As a long time user ('91) I am fully aware how blessed we are with Macs' prices today. However, an M5 Air 16G/512 is $1,100 without any discounts and Airs are frequently discounted by $200 at least in the States.

$599 is dangerously close to $1,100. Yes, it's 40ish % diff before any discounts, but the Air is like 3x the value and the Air has much more runway in it. I would not recommend a Neo to anyone in my circles at this price.

They deleted the wrong things, imo. I'd rather it was plastic, with a backlighted kb and TouchID at $400. TouchID by default should be table stakes on Apple hardware today, it's that useful. Then, I'd have 3 right now.

I am just talking about surface level stuff, they thought of cannibalization, repair costs, upgrade ramps (8GB), etc, they are smart.

Reminds me of one of the more brilliant passages in Snow Crash, describing work in "Fed Land"...

'''

Y.T's mom pulls up the new memo, checks the time, and starts reading it. The estimated reading time is 15.62 minutes. Later, when Marietta does her end-of-day statistical roundup, sitting in her private office at 9:00 P.M., she will see the name of each employee and next to it, the amount of time spent reading this memo, and her reaction, based on the time spent, will go something like this:

Less than 10 min. Time for an employee conference and possible attitude counseling.

10-14 min. Keep an eye on this employee; may be developing slipshod attitude.

14-15.61 min. Employee is an efficient worker, may sometimes miss important details.

Exactly 15.62 min. Smartass. Needs attitude counseling.

15.63-16 min. Asswipe. Not to be trusted.

16-18 min. Employee is a methodical worker, may sometimes get hung up on minor details.

More than 18 min.  Check the security videotape, see just what this employee was up to (e.g., possible unauthorized restroom break).

Y.T.'s mom decides to spend between fourteen and fifteen minutes reading the memo. It's better for younger workers to spend too long, to show that they're careful, not cocky. It's better for older workers to go a little fast, to show good management potential. She's pushing forty. She scans through the memo, hitting the Page Down button at reasonably regular intervals, occasionally paging back up to pretend to reread some earlier section. The computer is going to notice all this. It approves of rereading. It's a small thing, but over a decade or so this stuff really shows up on your work-habits summary.

'''

It's always been hard to know the extent of how draconian tracking actually is (IT pros tend to not talk about it much).

In the US, there's the expectation that when you use an employer-provided device that any and all activity on it can be fully monitored/recorded and used against the employee for any reason. In practice, however, few people worry about reasonable amounts web-surfing, being on hacker-news or doing life-activities on their work machines. Oh, here I am on hacker-news when I should be working.

With AI, this changes significantly since the man can now employ a robot to categorize and finely scrutinize every little thing with the pretext of "training" (to take your job). We will soon have to brace ourselves for an absolute draconian level of tracking.

I don't work for Meta, but how many more years do I need to work in tech? I'm in my 40s and my kids are young. I've already set up 529s for them, and am paying for some expensive home upgrades. Maybe when that is finished and I've built up a buffer I can switch industries for the last 5-10 years of my working life. Curious if anyone here has any similar plans.

The screen is too small, not usable for work, you can buy a 15-inch Linux laptop for the same price. And it might even have replaceable RAM and SSD. Also, 8 Gb is too little, it will become a useless toy several years later. Also, there are just 2 USB ports and no USB-A.

Also I wonder how long the keyboard lasts and how does one replace it.

It took Apple 42 years to kill the pc, but they did it.

I don't doubt the Neo is a quality product, but I'm curious whether cheap MacBooks are going to sabotage Apple's cachet as a luxury brand. It's my personal experience that iOS users tend to look down on "green bubbles" in a way that can only be explained as some sort of brand superiority complex.

I'm sure millionaires wouldn't appreciate it if Lamborghini sold a $25K model...

It's a product that you can't upgrade and you can't fix easy. It's no for me.

I'm writing this from a Macbook Neo. It's goddam fantastic. The best product Apple has put out in years. There simply is not a Windows laptop out there that can compete on speed, price, and build quality all at the same time. The low amount of RAM is simply not noticeable for everyday tasks. The display is fantastic. It feels really solid and great to hold and use.

macOS is far and away the worst thing about it. It's never exactly been a customizable or flexible OS, but Tahoe is also loaded with bugs, has tons of unconfigurable settings (or buries useful things in "accessibility" layers), and is still missing basic features (still no NTFS write support out of the box? really?) for anybody who is not an entry-level user.

But that said, for about $500, I truly don't think anything better exists. One of the best bang-for-buck new electronics I've ever bought.

I need a new home laptop. Just for web browsing, streaming videos.

I hate MacOS. I used MacOS for 10 years. When came back to Windows, I felt as I can breathe again.

I hate there are no comparable price/performance in Windows world.

Awesome, it’s nice to see a large company actually trying to make a decently crafted product for the entry level market and for it to be popular! I hope Apple can continue this and release more nice products at lower prices especially at a time where hardware is going parabolic.

With 12GB it's a seriously cool offering. I actually know 8GB works as well, and I've seen people on MacBook Airs with 50 tabs open, full IDE's and breezing. But I still would want at least 4GB more to be on the safe side.

I bought two Touch-ID models as gifts and while doing the setup I must say the lack of keyboard backlight is the only thing that bothered me A LOT. Great machines otherwise.

[dead]

It was not the normal Apple Mac Pricing to begin with. But let see if they will stick to $599 next year when it comes with 12GB RAM and hopefully double the SSD speed. I wouldn't be surprised it would have similar sales if it was priced $699.

It was also a very low initial production volume to begin with. So doubling isn't because it is doing above everyone's expectations, it is because Apple underestimated the demand. That is also ignoring the summer back to school season.

Imagine the potential sales overseas where the Neo fits into the budget of many more people who maybe wanted to get a Mac but could not afford it because it was just out of reach. But now there is a possibility.

I wonder what effect the colours have on sales?

It’s a hell of a lot more interesting than silver or dark grey.

I would rather own a used MacBook AIR than a new MacBook Neo. I usually don't like used computers but I just can't stand the anxiety of having to only have 8Gb RAM. Sure, it swaps, it compresses memory etc.. but still.

[dead]

FTA: "confirms that there's real appetite for premium quality at accessible prices"

Ya think?

Current RAM prices make the Mac Neo a steal

Apart from the price, I think what's really attracting people to the Neo are the cool colors. I was at an Apple Store a couple of weeks ago trying to buy a M5 MacBook Air and I was eavesdropping on the conversations going on next to me from people looking at the Neo. Almost all of it was positive and people really love the colors!

I suspect Apple is going to cannibalize some MBA sales with the Neo because I'm recommending the Neo to anyone like my mom who use their laptop mostly just for browsing and FaceTime calls, and even the MBA is overkill for that.

I am more interested in the XPS13 at a similar price point mentioned in the article. My intention is to run Linux, and that probably won't happen for a long time on modern Apple hardware.

I wonder what the margin profile is of the Neo vs Air vs MacBook Pro.

I have to imagine the Neo is lower margin %, but maybe I'm wrong.

Can someone explain to me why the standard iPad ($349) is so much cheaper than the iPhone 17e ($599)?

Not surprising. I've been looking at potentially getting one for my mother. Her last Windows 10 laptop is pretty long in the tooth, and there's no way in hell I'm getting her one with Windows 11 on it.

The Neo seems to fill the same niche that the Chromebook once did, and, since she's already in the Apple ecosystem due to her iPhone, an "Apple Chromebook" seems like an attractive proposition.

I wonder if this will cannibalize their other more expensive product lines. I know some people and have recommended this to folks that would have purchased more expensive laptops otherwise. My grandpa never needed the macbook air he has continually repurchased over the years. I am planning on purchasing one of these for my oldest, would have opted for a more expensive macbook air as well otherwise. Others that thought the macbook air was too expensive may have purchased used or not at all so this does bring in some more money with that demographic. I have to imagine the margins are smaller if the product is cheaper. I guess time will tell.

Yet open two tabs in chrome and your tam is gone...

I purchased my girlfriend a refurbished M2 MacBook Air literally a week before the Neo was announced. Been kicking myself ever since.

[flagged]

I am hopeful (not exactly optimistic, but hopeful) that increased sales of MacOS devices will warrant increased investment in MacOS by Apple.

I've already sold (recommended) 4 of these. I will continue to do so. These are the right computer for the non-creative/non-technical people in your life. HP/Acer/Dell/etc etc have decided to die on the hill of plasticy laptops with alien sounding model numbers. Good riddance.

I'd like to see the same thing applied to desktop computers, a Mac Neo maybe. The Mac mini has moved up the cost/performance ladder, there's room at the bottom for a simple, low cost desktop, maybe with Neo colours too.

I love my macbook neo. I have more powerful macmini at home as my daily driver, but neo is amazing for me basically as a companion to my corporate laptop. I use it:

- to take as my personal device when I travel

- do personal stuff when my corporate laptop is connected to my home setup and constant switching between computers is a hassle (even with a built in kvm in a monitor). i know, 1st world problems

It has a price point that makes it no brainer for me.

Got my and my wife's parents all-in on iPhone + Macbook Air/Pro + Watch (with a single iPad Pro) and honestly it's been fantastic. Only problem is that they forget a password here and there and I just have that in my password manager. After that, the ecosystem is just super convenient: watch finds their phone, find my friends has their/our location, Facetime dials in pretty easily.

Honestly, the problem with the Apple ecosystem is that hooking it up into a machine is annoying, so our claw-like has to be on a Mac Mini. But apart from that, everything is pretty good.

sad to hear if true, apple products are locked down / proprietary disappointments

would enjoy seeing them open them up though (push for this?)

I’ll wait for the next generation though. 8 gigs is a bit tight for my normal uses.

Amazing hardware, 8GB out to keep developers in check with sane memory management, if only Apple themselves cut down on their macOS operating system memory usage, 3GB idle is too much. The obvious out of spec for this laptop is emulated gaming with rosetta and wine, this need minimal 16GB.

Having "accidentally" purchased one, I can tell you that doing anything 8GB or RAM on a mac laptop is impossible. I have no idea what people are doing with this laptop. Macs are absolute dogs at 8GB.

The Neo's value prop is great for many people. I keep needing to remind myself that most computer users can get by fine with 8GB or RAM, and that the I'm not the target market for products like the Neo. I do get nervous with how future proof 8GB of RAM will be in terms of total usable lifespan for the Neo. Maybe the idea is shortened timeline to obsolescence means more sales. Not digging on the build quality, but just if 8GB or RAM will still be fine 5 years from now.

I would like to know how these are on XCode - would love to have the cheapest/most lightweight possible way to build iOS apps (derived from some cross-platform builder like Expo/Lynx/Dioxus) since I have no other use for MacOS.

Looking at tech specs, it seems like the one with 512GB drive might be serviceable. I have a very old 256GB Air and I struggle to keep enough drive space open to have XCode installed on it.

It's amazing you can get an iPad for $349 and a Macbook for $599. Even the plastic 2009 macbook alone was $999 at the lowest. Very strange to see a company do this when everything else just seems to have gone up and up.

I’m not shocked in the slightest. Great price point for younger folks to buy or be given as a gift, the build quality is good for what it is and it is snappy for most uses.

It’s many years too late IMO but I suppose the economics only made sense once they controlled their own chipset. I imagine doing this in the intel days would have been a far worse choice

Is the MacBook Neo like my Xiaomi phone: fully locked down; no way to put custom software on it? That would be bad. My laptop is the last bastion of control left.

I think Apple's cost efficiency advantages are really compounding now and it'll get increasingly hard for competitors to catch up. Everything they put in the product is either in-house or benefit from their scale and negotiating power.

In the MacBook Neo's case, everything from the in-house chipset and scale (for stuff like aluminum body) and the more RAM-efficient software is working in its favor. I'd bet that a different laptop manufacturer will struggle to make a profit at all if they made a $599 Neo-equivalent product with lower scale, having to pay for chips and Windows licenses, and having to put in 12GB of RAM instead of 8 to get a similar user experience.

I bought one: I was hesitant about the 8 GB of memory at first. But I'm happily running Chrome with like 20 tabs and some other apps, and performance isn't an issue.

It's mostly a couch laptop.

I run Obsidean, messaging apps, writing tools.  I use some CLI toolings...

I really wanted a Framework 12, but I got $180 credit on a ipad AIR 4, and sold a 2017 Macbook Pro for $150 (US), so that effectively made this a 280 upgrade, and reduced the risk in me going for it.

I love this thing.

*  love the keyboard, it’s such an improvement over the older laptops. Worth getting rid of that old Macbook Pro for this alone

*  Keyboard isn’t backlit.  Thought that would be annoying, but i’m good enough touch typist that in the dark, i can still navigate around no problem.

*  Lack of touch sensor.  I just turned off most security prompting, like passwords when filling in websites, etc. and just rely on typing my password in once when logging on.  On my todo is to turn on authentication from my Apple Watch, might make not having a touchid a non-issue.

* The screen!

Did I say I love the form factor?

I still wish it was shaped like my former favorite computer: the 11" Macbook Air, with the tapered edges and such.

I'm optimistic that the next version of Framework 12 will have better screen and be a nice aluminum body...but until then.....

It's always surprising when companies don't understand that people what inexpensive, quality goods. The original Ford Maverick retailed for $19,995, Ford absolutely could not keep up with production. Ultimately, they raised prices both because they could and in order to reduce demand because they could not actually product enough units.

I ended up getting two (one for each of my daughters).

The thing about Apple is that as the "IT" guy for my family, its ecosystem is the one which needs the least attention from me.

It really just works.

They have used Windows and Linux before (my kids and wife, that is), but something is always not quite right and needs my involvement.

These days gone 100% Mac, my interventions are usually initial setup and whenever the Samsung printer jams.

I have always had this notion that buying a Mac is the "premium" option, not just in quality, but maybe in price too.

I am in the process of trying to find a business notebook for my spouse who is a Windows user. The goal is to have something that is as close to a Macbook Air as possible in terms of price, weight, performance and durability.

What I am learning is that nothing that like that exists in the PC world. It's a minefield of tradeoffs: plastic chassis', bad screens, weird keyboards, bad trackpads, questionable reliability, etc.

The current contender is a ThinkPad X1 Carbon which even after a bunch of business discounts is still a good $300 more than a Macbook Air and appears to come with a pretty poor trackpad in comparison.

Apple has an incredible strength in distilling what a product or series of products should be down to its essence and selling it. You could argue that there is more "choice" among Windows PCs but the reality seems to be that it is an illogical mess of tradeoffs.

How does modern angular performance compare to the alternatives? Is it as fast?

Been using Angular v21 for a very complex app. Have had a wonderful experience, in terms of the cognitive load to make and work with components, state and data flow.

Signals and signal stores make it very easy.

Did the whole coding by hand, no ai coding tools too.

Wow, a post about Angular published on Medium!

Overkill. React mogs.

I like Angular, it feels a bit like Django. Easy to use with everything included.

beautiful idea. i thought remarkable would be useful for a handwritten chat client. it's kind of a romantic constraint but getting a sense of meaning and personality from handwriting seems like an obvious thing.

I haven't been involved in Angular for quite some time. As someone who uses other JavaScript frameworks (Vue, React, Svelte), what am I missing out on? I'd be curious to hear from people who would pick Angular over any of the other big frameworks.

I recently upgraded a relatively complex angular project from v14 to v21. I feel like Angular development slowed down for a few years. However, looking at the changes over those versions in total makes it feel like a whole new framework.

Out of curiosity I’ve progressed away from Angular around 2018. My peak spa-ish reduxian state management experience was building an NgRX combo with @ngrx/effects for side effects.

Till this day I remember this fondly as it gave me so much ease of control of the application’s many complex states. Especially when I nowadays deal with all sorts of false-prophets in forms of hooks and what ever reactive primitive du-jour (don’t get
Me wrong they are 80% of the time the better choice, it’s just that they don’t scale).

What’s today’s version of complex state management in Angular-Land?

[dead]

the biggest problem in angular is that it is so hard to use a custom toolchain, i.e. not their angular/cli product instead mix it with other stuff in lets say vite

Using angular in 2026 is mad :D

Did foo(42) just output 44 ?

Seems like Angular has gotten better since v2 (my last experience).

Has anyone done a modern Angular vs. React comparison that's not an AI slop article?

I'm also curious if it's "simple made easy" for performant applications. React is arguably "simple made hard", but there are notable, highly performant applications written with it (Linear comes to mind).

most enterprises would be better served by being on an angular stack than the hodgepodge of shit called React.

I enjoyed Angular before React, had a good run with it, it was a vibe, now if I'm being honest I totally forget it ever existed. Not to praise React either, lately I've been actually digging the htmx way, though I feel like the battle is now which framework/language is the agent more proficient with and the static/compiler level tooling can help catch mistakes.

import {signal} from "@angular/core"
   import {form} from "@angular/forms/signals"

So, signal comes out of core and form comes out of forms/signals. This must be a terminology thing I don't get.

Other than that. Looking forward to try Angular again after a decade of absence. I think it looks pretty good.

that's super cool I love my RM2 very long battery life

y tho

How do you handle latency between handwriting recognition and REPL evaluation 
 is there a noticeable delay before you see the output?

Very nice

Wow Angular Aria looks fantastic. Even have full docs for the more complicated scenarios like autocomplete. Can't wait to get this in my hands and see if it replaces the custom screen reader autocomplete I had to make.

Angular has made my programming career joy and it has not felt like work at all, all the best to angular dev team! Nothing better than getting to work with favorite language, learning better and getting paid :D

I must admit, modern angular has been a pleasure to use. It's a shame that the ecosystem is a little rough. Luckily you get so much out of the box already.

I wonder if this would be easier on the Supernote Manta with the new plugins API that they've introduced recently…

Awesome job Daniel!

Now I have a reason to get reMarkable :)

Ok this might be the coolest thing I've seen all month.

You must be a Recurser, right?  This is so very Recurser.

Really excited for this. I've been dying to use signal-forms and resources since they were experimental. Once I got on the signal train, I could never go back and having to use RxJS for forms became a major pain point.

Great work.

The experience programming with handwritten code in tablets keeps being a pain, when it would be ideal as digital executable paper.

I use my reMarkable daily for notes and never thought of it as something you'd run a live REPL on. Really neat build.

This awesome! I actually had no idea I could ssh into my Remarkable and do neat stuff like this!

> Why do it? It's so impractical!

Because you can and it's fun is always a perfectly valid answer here!

Amazing! I'd recommend using PaddlePaddle OCR models if you want to make your handwriting conversion local, it's definitely fast enough. Probably faster than the Sonnet call.

I tried the model on your handwriting and it worked great. My handwriting is bad enough that it doesn't work :)

I find getting stuff up on the rM2 screen a hassle.

The challenge comes from the way the e-paper works. To turn a pixel from white to black (or vice versa) it needs multiple actual frames. The pixel data must also be packed in a specific format. Instructions for how many frames a single operation requires are coded in a wbf[0] file, which comes included with the OEM firmware.

The most commonly used approach is hooking into xochitl, since it handles all of the user facing stuff like the notebooks but also the actual drawing. This is somewhat brittle and tends to break with software updates, because all of the actual function addresses have to be updated as well.

I was excited to find waved[1], a C++ library that allowed to drive the display directly using a sane API. Although it's not been updated for quite a while it still works and you can compile and run it yourself.

Since I was interested in driving the display myself, I tried to rewriting waved in Zig. It works - I can now get pixels up on the screen. Unfortunately the code is a mess and its only redeeming quality (stemming from being written in Zig) is that I can cross compile a statically linked binary that 'just werks' using just the Zig toolchain as the only dependency. For debugging purposes, I also implemented a SDL emulator for the display. [2]

While writing this, I stumbled upon a recent Rust implementation of the same ideas. Nice. [3]

Since the xochitl display implementation is the most optimized, that's probably the reason why it's being used most commonly*, even though it might be 'ugly'.

* Citation needed

[0] https://gitlab.com/zephray/glider#understanding-waveform

[1] https://github.com/matteodelabre/waved

[2] https://github.com/jakubvf/dazed

[3] https://github.com/yobert/swtcon

Impressive, and a great choice of language. The REPL in Clojure is unmatched.

A fun experiment, and cute if not for the lag. A full 14 seconds between the pen stopping writing and the result,

What I'd find interesting is the trace of that 14 seconds. How much is the Remarkable processing, how much is the claude transcription, how much is the let-go start-up / processing, etc.

I’m actually impressed by the handwritten blog - really cool concept.

Was it exported by writing on remarkable? How did he include link into the text that he wrote?

Nice. That latency is tough though. On that topic, I wrote an equivalent "magic mirror" type tool that lets you write to the mirror/oracle/VLM on the remarkable and get an answer back.

A few possible solutions I explored:

1) You can try and consume (and possibly write to) the frame buffer directly. https://github.com/ddvk/remarkable2-framebuffer was my starting point. This gets you instant updates about what's going on. I guess you could pair this with speculative decoding to get a much faster output.

2) You can use the streaming API on the device to stream the screen to a beefy server, possibly over Tailscale, letting you do everything off device.

3) You can write your own Qt app; ddvk's repos are a good starting point here.

I ultimately instructed claude to write me my own app. Which worked enough to scratch my itch, and I never use it. But this was five months ago, an eternity in vibe hobby projects, so perhaps modern tooling would let me get it in shape and be more usable. Basically, it worked, but VLMs weren't great at what I wanted -- decorating a blank page with a grimoire-style answer to a written question while leaving the original text alone -- and getting it started / stopped from the pen UI is difficult.

Where my mind goes for your project is that I think it'd be nicest to keep a sort of Jupyter notebook somewhere that's the canonical representation, that would have your handwritten blocks and an interpretation, and then the output. then a render layer to get it back onto the screen. At that point, I don't think I'd care very much if it's stored as a PDF on the device, which points back to having this be an app.

Either way it's fun to tinker! the RM line is very hackable, and I still wish it were even easier, the hardware just makes you think of so many possibilities.

Given the abundance of vaguely similar local-first AI memory layers, it might be a good idea to add a "Why Mnemo" section right at the top of README.md to explain why folks should consider using it.

[flagged]

> in order to do anything with CTP over USB, you first have to do challenge-response authentication with the device. The key is static [... ]

Is this some legal thing so they can claim that a protection was circumvented? E.g. to void warranty or be able to sue?

You forgot BM25 embeddings.

https://github.com/MikeS071/ai-engram

https://github.com/lamost423/openclaw-hybrid-memory

https://medium.com/@qdrddr/agentic-memory-framework-hindsigh...

https://clawhub.ai/vnesin-sarai/hybrid-retrieval

https://www.josecasanova.com/blog/openclaw-qmd-memory

https://medium.com/@richardhightower/stop-the-hallucinations...

https://github.com/oomkapwn/enquire-mcp#-why-its-the-best

https://github.com/rohitg00/agentmemory#key-capabilities

https://github.com/Melody-0321/NE-Memory-Core

https://github.com/ClaudioDrews/memory-os

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25

> It is based on the probabilistic retrieval framework developed in the 1970s and 1980s

Anyway, good for ya, hope you had fun building it.

I tend to agree with the rest of the commenters that the most likely outcome is that harnesses will include features like this. I had a slightly different issue and that was 'project-level memory' that i can use across models or harnesses (chat, claude code, etc).

for a while i used Obsidian but it was not very good with hosted tools like claude.ai then i moved to a combination of Linear and Notion. Still using Linear but Notion ended up being a royal pain: it is built for humans not agents. It is block based and when multiple agents use it there is a lot of corruption in the process.

I wanted a markdown only, notion built for agents that can work with multiple agents so built one: markbase.cloud

feel free to try and use it. i think it's useful

Everybody builds one. And, then they usually figure out that making the model fill its context with a bunch of memories hurts performance more often than it helps.

Wow, that's very creative! /couldn't resist the pun/

Inexistent security, absent security contacts/hard to get in touch with, denial/delay/won’t patch, most functionality to deploy a backdoor is already present, to me equals bugdoor. This is wanted behavior, not an accident, and is a widespread pattern..

[flagged]

This sounds super cool

Not sure what would count as a vulnerability if this does not.

Good work, and fun to read.

It's crazy that companies just stick their head in the sand, when confronted with serious security issues.

While the article only talks about using this as a USB HID keyboard to send attacks, surely if you spent more time creating an evil firmware from scratch you could do much more than this? You could bridge any information from USB -> Bluetooth.

Way cool. Thank you for sharing

"Hacking the poorly secured, combination wired/wireless, multi-protocol bridge controller you naively attached to your PC's universal IO bus"

Great research. Thanks for sharing

what ways are there to protect from malicious HID device?

Thanks for sharing this. It’s a bit concerning that a consumer soundbar can receive unauthenticated firmware over BLE and then act like a BadUSB-style HID on the host. I’m not sure I agree with the vendor’s "no cybersecurity risk" assessment, considering how much access a trusted keyboard interface typically has.

Side-channel attacks are getting wild. Every time I think we've completely air-gapped a device, someone finds a way to use acoustic frequencies or hardware resonance to leak data.

The real question remains:  with this hack, did the OP gain full control of Dr. Sbaitso?

Haha, I dont have one, only headphones
Jokes on you xD

[dead]

ebpf usb sniffer you may find useful.

https://github.com/yeet-src/usbsnoop

This is a cool infection vector for the ai virus from earlier today to use. It could be like NDS feature that it greeted a passerby but now for spreading stuff digitally.

What an amazing write-up and exploit. Love it!

[flagged]

This is so refreshing to read. A true throwback in style and content. Makes me nostalgic

[dead]

[dead]

[dead]

Having a guaranteed audio channel makes this so much cooler for exploits -- you can exfiltrate over audio!! I love it. I wonder how many of these were sold. I also imagine based on Creative's response (this is fine) that many other devices in the class have similar security models in place. Def scary.

Creative is still around? They always had great hardware, but their software was never what one would consider "great".

The 'S' in IoT is for 'Security'

I also did some reverse engineering, although mine was a soundcard which seemed to use an older version of this software (GUI was different). I used Wireshark to sniff out the LED and EQ packets and then wrote a CLI utility with hidapi library in C.

It doesn't have bluetooth so thankfully something like this wouldn't happen with mine. It's crazy that there's no auth at all for Bluetooth. I was reversing my e-scooter recently (still WIP) and there was a whole bunch of authentication required before its app could control any of it. I am still not confident in its security though

It's funny to see all the commenters who didn't read the article closely enough or at all. This is basically the bluetooth device equivalent of "left S3 bucket open to public".

That said, really cool work. I honestly thought it would be harder to turn a usb connected device into an exploit vector.

That it's as easy as emulating a keyboard that pops a local terminal and runs a malicious command is actually pretty funny. Though it will be a non-admin terminal so the damage should be somewhat limited. And on Windows, users often just click through any UAC prompt so I bet you'd get full access on many windows boxes.

People who love tech buy superdupersmart loudspeaker that will connect to every computer in their house; and also somehow control their superdupersmart coffee maker so they can have a fresh coffee brewed when some Miles Davis play.

People who understand tech keep an axe next to their toaster.

I write firmware (specifically bluetooth enabled device firmware) and my work has blocked this website.

Can't wait to see a video from a half sloppy channel about this on my youtube front page in roughly 4 business days

The fact that the author had to publish a third-party patch because the vendor didn't consider it a vulnerability is not a great look

Why think so small? Perhaps the speaker itself can be used as the attacker.

Any script kiddie with an LLM could write a worm that would spread through the supply chain, possibly even hacking speakers right on the factory floor and blasting Rickroll music or something similar.

It would be interesting to see if Creative would still claim that it "does not present a cybersecurity risk".

Edit: Bonus points for closing the security hole and disabling the ability to flash the firmware normally, so that the manufacturer would have to jailbreak the speakers in order to repair them.

Not even one map as jpg or png to see on the webpage!!!

Whats the point of this project?
You expect us to load npm just to see some maps?!

This is a well written article and easy to digest, worth a skim.

In summary he figured out how to reflash arbitrary firmware on a Creative Sound Blaster Katana V2X soundbar via Bluetooth, without requiring any effective authentication or user interaction.

The soundbar is plugged directly into its host computer via USB, so by adding a descriptor to its firmware he made it recognized as a keyboard.  From there it was straightforward to have it send keystrokes to the PC.  The soundbar is equipped with a mic, so an adversary could turn it into an eavesdropping device.

He reported it to Creative and SingCERT.  Neither him or SingCERT got any meaningful response from the company until 2 months later, eventually saying "they do not consider this to be a vulnerability, as it does not present a cybersecurity risk".

He released a firmware patcher that disables the flawed transport protocol.  It's a bit of a sledgehammer that likely also breaks functionality of the official Bluetooth app, but seems like the best he could do without cooperation from the manufacturer.

It is quite common to find device manufacturers, even those of many years standing, who _appear to_ begin with the device and add the software as an afterthought. Paying little attention to security or even the software lifecycle (patches, updates, the changing landscape/ecosystem). I have even known it happen that the device brand subs out the software to a random small developer, who then closes up shop/dies/gets out of that business, and the device company doesnt even have the source code, let alone any ability to further improve/fix the software that drives their device. This leads to layers upon layers of subsequent middleware, UIs, shims etc.

[dead]

If I were in charge of, say, the Mossad, I would have as a significant part of my budget purchasing every single bluetooth device on the market, and set a bunch of underemployed Israeli CS grads to work at finding these vulnerabilities, and then putting them into an easily deployed toolkit. You want an asset with access to, say, an Iranian government office, to be able to walk through the building with a phone and take control of as many machines as possible.

Now that I think about it, I think you have to assume that they probably DO do this...

>Email from SingCERT stating vendor "do not consider this to be a vulnerability, as it does not present a cybersecurity risk."

So wirelessly writing custom firmware to someone else's device that is connected via USB to their computer without even needing to pair is not a security vulnerability. Yea.

[dead]

[flagged]

Air-gapped attacks are the most fascinating. Change my mind

I used to play an Amiga 500 version of this. I think it was Test Drive 2 though.

I used to play this, thats awesome.

I was always fixated on trying to run over the chicken

Bro , it's crazy!

Now do TD (the original)! I remember thinking it was something from the future when it came out on C64. Similar feeling of seeing something from two years from now with Mach 3 in the arcade.

Is there any relevance with another tool call mnemon?

I played that game!! Although I was 10 years old and barely knew any English. After some playing, I always got a "go home" note on my windshield, I never found out why.

Impressive dedication, reverse engineering 35 years old game files is no small task.

Reminds me of The Structural Dynamics of Flow by Leslie Claret

Ah, that's so lovely! Will definitely try this!

In October of 2013, Ross Scott did a review of Test Driver III in one of the early "Ross' Game Dungeon" episodes[1]. IIRC in the video, he mentioned that he's fascinated by game maps to the degree of a slight obsession, and would absolutely love if someone could reverse engineer the game assets and extract the maps.

Someone later went on to do just that and responded in the Accursed farms forum, Ross mentioned that in his July 2015 follow up video[2]. In the video he showed some map screen shots from the forum, including a surprisingly intricate map that was apparently only used for the the spinning car menu screen. IIRC the reverse engineering project was not quite complete at the time, since the README doesn't mention any of this, I assume this project is unrelated?

That said, it would be amazing to eventually get the extracted maps integrated into noclip.website[3].

[1] https://accursedfarms.com/index.php?af-posts/537/test-drive-...

[2] https://accursedfarms.com/index.php?af-posts/522/follow-up-e...

[3] https://noclip.website/

I don't know about the CFD, but I really enjoyed reading this blog back in my iOS days. Friday Q&A was especially good. He would take some part of Obj-C or Cocoa and build a simple version from scratch.

article is good, comments are fantastic!

I used to play the demo of Test Drive III. It only had one map I believe. But I loved that it was a sandbox, so you could drive anywhere. I specifically remember following along the railroad. It was way ahead of its time back then.

Wonderful stuff - thanks! I was thinking about doing this as well.

I just completed recreating one of my childhood favourites, Thrust. Opus 4.7 almost one-shot the game (was perfect in 30 mins based on just the wikipedia entry describing the game), and then I spent 3 full nights trying to build perfect algorithmic AI to auto play it. (It thoroughly failed, sticking to a sub-par algo that was ok, but not nearly as good as possible).

My next stop is reimplementing Mercenary. First open world game I played. On a 8b commodore Plus/4.

On Pacific Coast 3 you can see the infinite highway. I remember turning right to a highway and there was a highway exit that if I missed I would run again this highway as on Moebious' strip to the beginning. This gave the world an infinite vibe

I always love any reverse engineered projects

Never played TD - How does it compare to Lotus? More of a simulation?

Oh man, the controls on mobile remind me of a bad dream where you  don’t quite have full control of your flying.

Neat viewer. I wonder, why boats and cars in groud view ended up in such high altitude?

I can hear the PC Speaker music in my head.... oh man! it was actually available in adlib!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ayInv3ZZRak

I'm very happy to see this! Not so much because of TDIII (which I played, although not nearly as much as Stunts), but because there seems to be some momentum building around recreating old games using AI agents, and I love that! I had explored some related ideas [0] but throwing Claude at the problem seems super promising. The recent Crimsonland thing [1] was great!

[0] https://www.gabrielgambetta.com/remakes.html

[1] https://banteg.xyz/posts/crimsonland/

Hi HN, I'm Jovan. I've been building Nutrepedia part-time from Monterrey, Mexico.

It's a multilingual nutrition reference site: 1,635 foods rendered into 47,415 localized pages across 29 regional locales. Each page has nutrition facts, localized names, portion terms, regional routing, imagery, and short food context.

The stack is Clojure, HTTP-Kit, Compojure, Hiccup, HTMX, and Postgres. Postgres handles the food data, localized content, admin workflow, task queues, search, and evaluation records.

The search piece has been the most interesting technically. Latin-script fuzzy search uses pg_trgm and unaccent. CJK and other non-Latin scripts use PGroonga. Romanized aliases are indexed separately, so a query like "rasbhari" can find a Hindi food name like "rasbhari" / "रसभरी".

I built this because most nutrition tools feel calorie-first, signup-first, and English focused. I wanted the reference layer to be free and useful before asking anyone to track meals or create an account.

I'd especially appreciate feedback on search, localization mistakes, whether the pages are useful before tracking exists, and any obvious technical blind spots.

The title should be updated to note this is from 2006.

Has there been anything like this published in the past 20 years but for compressible fluids? I have wanted to make a simple atmospheric model for years but have been unable to because of the complexity and probably my lack of complete understanding.

Your collection or wishlist, printed onto standard 63 × 88 mm game cards. Movies, books, board games, video games, comics: don't look at your phone to decide what to watch next, when you can shuffle cards and let fate decide (*)

That's a really interesting idea. Can you import a list from an external source, like IMDB or Google Keep?

This is an ok introduction to CFD in that you discretize a problem, but it is not insightful and not scientific in its approach. The author routinely admits he doens't know how certain portions of the code work.

This is a much better approach to CFD / Navier-Stokes and will help you understand the various phenomenon along the way.
https://lorenabarba.com/blog/cfd-python-12-steps-to-navier-s...

Treat this as a "what do I need to do to make fluid flow that looks okayish in graphics" post rather than "how do I implement physics accurate CFD for industrial/scientific purposes" post.

Lots of points in there like

> "Air is an example of a compressible fluid; you squish it and it gets smaller. Water is an example of an incompressible fluid; you squish it and it pushes back, and doesn't get any smaller" (this only really depends on the Mach number, Ma>~0.3 and you are in compressible territory for any fluid. Incompressibility usually means we assume the divergence of velocity of zero)

> "Incompressible fluids are simpler to simulate because their density and pressure is always constant." (This is only true if you choose to adopt a grad P = 0 approximation)

are incorrect from a physics perspective.

If you look at what real incompressible Navier-Stokes solvers do [1], it's mathematically totally different from what this post shows. In fact, the part that this post omits (handle the pressure gradient term by first approximate time stepping the velocity term by ignoring the pressure term and then correct by solving a Poisson equation for the pressure residual, and then correct the velocity) is the most expensive step in incompressible solvers by far.

[1] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Projection_method_(fluid_dynam...

The search seems a bit weird. A search for salmon includes almonds in the results, and a search for spinach includes Tahitian taro.

Very nice, what is the source of the data?

cool! i see at least two reasons in the title to upvote this

Great optimization!

Simple and beautiful, I love it.

Looks good. The quantities input box behaves strange on Firefox mobile. Can't seem to delete the input and type something new. Jumps to a default or any number before I get to type my grams.

Nice great job, how do you handle multi languages?

awesome, very good looking and simple, useful functionality

The search results aren't hyperlinks? So middle clicking to open in a new tab does nothing. Odd choice.

I can't enter a serving size that's not a whole number on mobile because it automatically closes the keyboard when the text field is cleared

Within cells interlinked.

Pale Fire (name of the book), links to a PDF

Novel was referenced in Blade Runner 2049

I mean, you can buy a copy in any reasonable bookshop, so I'm not sure how "lost" it is.

Metafiction thought of as a precursor for hypertext fiction is not anything new I believe?

Awesome paper either way, just thinking that the title is quite hyperbolic.

Hello, nice work. I recommend running Chrome's built-in Lighthouse analysis tool specifically for accessibility. It will make some very helpful suggestions, like img alt text and colour contrast issues. One example that I eyeballed is the search bar–the background colour is pink and the text colour is yellow. Kinda hard to read :-)

Is there a way to set the default unit?
I'd prefer to see the information per 100g by default (instead using random units).

The mechanism of non-free but alternative ordering is already present in Julio Cortazar's Rayuela.

(Read it as printed or read it jumping from numbered chunk to numbered chunk in the alternative order.)

It is a huge unspoken reality how much one's physical appearance affects the way they are treated, their life outcomes, and ultimate success in social/romantic relationships. Hair transplants, leg lengthening, plastic surgery, etc. will all explode over the next decade as AI erodes humans' ability to be successful via their industry and intellect.

I was the shadow of the waxwing slain¹

¹ Pale Fire is one of the greatest books I’ve ever read. It took me two tries because I didn’t understand what I was getting into the first time.

I think Turkish factory style dentists accumulate something like 100 times more experience?

Why are so many people brainwashed to think baldness==bad? My hair really started to go down around 30 years old and am going to have to shave my head at some point, but who cares? Why does it matter?

I love this book. Before anything else it's a pleasure to read: it's funny, touching, and the constant referring to the poem at its core forces literary engagement - even if it's only to notice where Kinbote is bending the truth. It also scratches a metafictional itch that has now become a huge trend in modern media...

Spoilers below

...but I find it suffers in criticism for a different trend: that everything has a 'gotcha'. While I accept that there is no sensible reading where the narrator is entirely reliable, I reject that there is an evocative reading using the Shadean theory referenced in footnote 2.

Sometimes this is given as 'Shade wrote the whole book'. I have no time for that. You don't need a character who writes Pale Fire on index cards: that's just Nabokov. And what would it mean if this Shade writes a heartfelt canto about his own loss, then the interpretation that cruelly misses the topic?

Sometimes it's given that Kinbote is a dissociative identity of Shade. I see this as an interpretation that minimised the impact of the text to maximise the self-satisfaction of the reader. Read through the book with it in mind and you find yourself asking what's the point of it all. In line 62's explanation, Kinbote reads 'hal.....s' as 'hallucinations'. If Kinbote is a real character within the story, that's a joke between Nabokov and the reader. With this theory it's nothing. Kinbote's writings make up the bulk of what you read. It's much more interesting to do so if you choose believe there's a point to them.

Spoilers done

I had a similar experience reading interpretations of Lolita, with the added problem of takes that over-correct and signal against the subject and wider public perception.

Words are truly losing their meaning if its a hack to develop a business.

If you're considering this, what I learned during my hair transplant journey may be useful. There are a variety of surgical techniques to address hair loss including different kinds and degrees of transplants and scalp reductions. Most hair loss progresses over many years until it eventually reaches a stable state. A big part of getting optimal results is identifying your kind of hair loss, where you are in the progression and correctly estimating how it will continue - then matching the proper technique or combination of techniques.

Some less-than-ideal outcomes are from mismatching the procedure(s) to the patient or doing too much too early in the loss period. If the progression occurs differently than expected after the procedure the outcome can become unbalanced. A few patients can be one-and-done but for many patients multiple steps over time can increase the odds of optimal outcomes. Generally, you should NOT push for one-and-done unless you're that rare candidate. Figuring out the pattern, progression and matching the correct plan of attack is where the experience and diligence of the practitioner matter most.

While a lot of hair loss clinics market the 'artistry' of their doctors, the reality is that performing the procedures tends to be fairly rote. My eventual outcome was great, but I totally lucked into it. It was still the late 90s when my hair loss progressed from "just some thinning" to the early stages of "have you considered a comb-over?" I went to a clinic and was told I was most likely early in a 'full loss' progression and that I'd probably need more than one scalp reduction before even starting transplants. They also advised waiting more than a year between scalp reductions for optimal results.

I was disappointed because I'd been hoping to walk in and walk out a few hours later with "Brad Pitt hair." But just having turned 30, I was feeling insecure about my hair, still dating and looking for "The One." So I signed up and insisted the surgeon "go big" on the first scalp reduction. The procedure itself was fine but the week-long recovery kicked my ass and for several months afterward my scalp felt stretched to the limit. To be fair, they did fully warn me on all this, I just hadn't taken it seriously enough. As I recovered, I decided it just wasn't worth it and gave up on the hair thing.

After it had settled for a year, the one big scalp reduction did improve things back to "just thinning" but eventually the loss progressed (as I was warned it would). But I'd already decided "it is what it is". Fortunately, it turns out when I met "The One" a couple years later she didn't care about my hair (despite being, according to my friends, waaaay out of my league) :-).  Jump forward another ~20 years and my now-wife is seeing a plastic surgeon for C-section scar removal and mentions "If you still care, they do hair transplants."

Thanks to the now-ancient mega-scalp reduction, my hair never reached "full loss" but it'd stopped somewhere deep in comb-over territory. I didn't care that much but decided to do a consult anyway. Based on my unique history, the doc asked for year-by-year photos to gauge how things had progressed since the scalp reduction (photos from kid birthday parties worked well). Turns out that doing the mother-of-all scalp reductions and waiting ~20 years to reach full progression was, accidentally, the perfect plan. Now the target was clear, unmoving and reduced enough they could nail it in a one-and-done transplant by taking ALL the donor hair - which is rare. Most procedures are done on patients still in progression, but each patient only has a limited amount of donor hair, so they don't 'harvest' all of it because some will be needed later in the progression. They just don't know exactly where yet.

So I did it and ~5 years later, it still looks perfect. The procedure took most of a day but was pretty easy. The interesting part was the top-notch, deeply experienced plastic surgeon didn't do the procedure herself. It was done by two sub-contractor technicians who travel from clinic to clinic over a multi-state area doing nothing but transplants all day, every day. The doc explained its really best because they can do it very well and fast (apparently speed in parts of the procedure can improve the follicle survival rate). Of course, she checked in during the day and was on-hand in case anything went wrong. You don't need Sully Sullenberger in the cockpit on every milk run, as long as he's there on the rare flight that ends in the Hudson River.

tl;dr  In my experience, once you have a skilled assessment, correctly matched procedure(s) and plan of attack, then using lower cost technicians to do the actual procedure should be fine - as long as there's an experienced back-stop available in the event of an "unscheduled water landing" (do 737s have scheduled water landings)? My only other concern would be ensuring they don't harvest too much, too early from some patients. Doing so would probably  lift their 90-day customer satisfaction but at the expense of nefing 10-year C-Sat. To be fair, that could happen at pricier U.S. clinics too (my technicians had both started in those places and we got to gossiping over that long day).

Nice to see more literature on HN recently -- Infinite Jest came up yesterday to my delight.

Pale Fire is not my favorite Nabokov novel, largely because it's so successful at getting you in the head of someone who just fully and completely gives you the ick, top to bottom, in nearly every sentence.

This paper is awesome, though. I particularly like that Mr. Rowberry went ahead and graphed a bunch of connections, very cool.

That said, I don't think he mentions and definitely does not dive deeply into a very hypertext-y thing Nabokov did which was to write his novels using 4x6 cards. He reportedly would shuffle them and deal them out during production/finishing of his novels.

It reminds me of Zettelkasten a little, although the shuffling would be verboten to Zettelkasten practitioners. Either way, managing a novel through 4x6 cards makes me think most of his novels would be amenable to some sort of graph analysis / linking.

It's easy to imagine Pale Fire written this way, but I have a hard time imagining say Ada or Ardor written this way, I think largely because it's so long, but also because the scenes themselves are longer than I imagine can be written on notecards. But, maybe he used them for key points, images, scene goals.. lots of possibilities.

Walking thru the streets of Istanbul, it seems that female nosejobs are even more common than male hair transplants.

So I spent time living in Istanbul a few years ago. It really was wild. In the touristy areas (near where I lived), you really would see loads and loads of bald guys walking around with stitches on their heads.

If I were bald, I would totally go there and do the same.

The title just goes to show that

1. the turkish government had reasons for trying to get people to use "Türkiye" instead.

2. It's still not working.

I 100% thought this was about birds until clicking

https://archive.is/KxRaw

Wayne Rooney lost his strength, motivation and creativity directly after his hair transplant. Some speculate the pills you need to take forever afterwards mess up your hormones. It's not worth it just to look good for women and "impressing" other people.  His body turned into a fat womens body.

I did one in Thessaloniki, Greece eight years ago. Here's a photo album of me before, during, after, and recently:

https://immich.home.stavros.io/s/transplant

I don't understand how can you trust these foreigners-oriented clinics in counties with otherwise miserable healthcare. These clinics are not an exception from dysfunctional healthcare system, they are the very result and fruit of it.

Has there been any progress on cloning hair follicles? I don’t want to move the hair around. I simply want more hair.

Man these tore me up. What wonderfully written sentiments.

Why is "turkey" lowercased? For that matter the country's official name is Türkiye as of 2022.

[dead]

As a guy that started experiencing moderate hair loss in his 20s, I spent countless hours researching the Turkish hair transplant industry.

It's a case of having the right people at the right place, at the right time. Turkey have some of the leading doctors and clinics in this field, and have had for years. They were also located in a place which was close to both customers from Europe and the Middle-East, and could offer FUE (Follicular Unit Extraction) procedures at a very nice price.

Even the very top doctors there were charging a relatively modest price, compared to their (more) western colleagues. And I guess with the sheer volume they'd go through, they discovering new best practices, techniques, etc. along the way.

Back when I did research on this, now 15 years ago, the industry was starting to really take off. This was reflected in the prices that the best clinics charged. Some of them jumped up 50% in a short time, when photo-driven social media like Instagram started blowing up.

And then a whole industry sprung out of it. Many excellent clinics, tons more mediocre (to horrendous) ones that are only trying to compete on price.

Guess this also goes for the dental industry there.

These are so beautiful!

I did it a few years ago when I was living in Istanbul. One evening, a friend of mine wouldn't shut up about the procedure. I ended up booking it almost on a whim, mostly just to prove him wrong. I did the transplant the next day. In the end, I was very happy with the results. I think it cost around 1500$.

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/olalonde/olalonde.github.c...

I had mine done in Rio de Janeiro, not in Turkey, but I understand the costs are similar for both.  I had 2 sessions performed 6 months apart, total cost of about USD $5,000.  In the US it might have been $20,000 or more.  Each session was about 10+ hours, but with the local anesthesia it went by surprisingly quickly.  I take dutasteride and apply topical minoxidil daily.

This was in 2023, and I'm largely happy with the results since then.  If I had my 20s to do over again, I would have tried to go just the medication route and avoid the procedure.  I do think that would have resulted in a more natural appearance vs. what I have now.

My grandmother used to say, "the Americans are going to space while we're just growing butt-hair". She was so close!

> Instead of configuring domain names that may not resolve, we can just directly inject the appropriate IP address(ess) into configuration files

Because now you've replaced one single point of failure configuration system with caching and TTLs (DNS) with a higher maintenance and much less widely supported one.

My grandfather was a large-animal veterinarian and wrote a textbook about bovine health and nutrition. The book is dedicated to the dairy cow and how they're so important for human/civilization development. At some point I heard my grandmother was kind of upset it wasn't dedicated to her!

My most favorite dedication (sorry for ruining the special moment for you!) is from a book by Terry Eagleton, called "On Evil". There's an almost blank page which simply reads:

"To Henry Kissinger"

Not on the list, yet likely of interest to the Hacker News audience, is the dedication in the first volume of Donald E. Knuth’s “The Art of Computer Programming”:

“This series of books is affectionately dedicated

to the Type 650 computer once installed at

Case Institute of Technology,

in remembrance of many pleasant evenings.”

If you read this and thought “these are twee, and I long not to read their books” - you got a friend in me.

None of these comes close to hypocrite lecteur, mon semblable, mon frère.

One of my favourite dedications is in the preface to “Real Analysis: A long-form mathematics textbook” by Jay Cummings (which is as it sounds a maths textbook).  The dedication reads

“To my loving wife, who read this entire book, apart from the maths parts.”

These are really beautiful. I stumbled on it this morning when I woke up & took a nap afterwards…ended up dreaming about my mum and giving her a warm goodbye hug.

Thank you for sharing

As an ancient person, and considering my sense of inflation of other things I actually buy, This doesnt sound that high to me. At some point in my life CPU Ghz stopped rising and cores was the only thing to grow, and that seemed to be more slowly than clock rate did. So I guess I fully expected that asymptote to apply to RAM too. If you plot price per GB of ram across last 25 years the memory prices growth is barely a bump in the chart.  In (nearly) no other physical product do we expect prices to plummet over time whilst simultaneously getting way better. Maybe we're just spoiled by the first 50 - 75 years of wild innovation that most new things go through before they asymptote ?

Holding on to a shadow where love and life once lived.

These were touching to read

Many of these are beautiful, but it's missing one of the best ever written, by Olin Shivers in the Scsh Reference Manual:

Who should I thank? My so-called ``colleagues,'' who laugh at me behind my back, all the while becoming famous on my work? My worthless graduate students, whose computer skills appear to be limited to downloading bitmaps off of netnews? My parents, who are still waiting for me to quit ``fooling around with computers,'' go to med school, and become a radiologist? My department chairman, a manager who gives one new insight into and sympathy for disgruntled postal workers?

My God, no one could blame me -- no one! -- if I went off the edge and just lost it completely one day. I couldn't get through the day as it is without the Prozac and Jack Daniels I keep on the shelf, behind my Tops-20 JSYS manuals. I start getting the shakes real bad around 10am, right before my advisor meetings. A 10 oz. Jack 'n Zac helps me get through the meetings without one of my students winding up with his severed head in a bowling-ball bag. They look at me funny; they think I twitch a lot. I'm not twitching. I'm controlling my impulse to snag my 9mm Sig-Sauer out from my day-pack and make a few strong points about the quality of undergraduate education in Amerika.

If I thought anyone cared, if I thought anyone would even be reading this, I'd probably make an effort to keep up appearances until the last possible moment. But no one does, and no one will. So I can pretty much say exactly what I think.

Oh, yes, the acknowledgements. I think not. I did it. I did it all, by myself.

Counterpoint: DNS isn't used enough; consider replacing sssd/AD with Hesiod.

Here's another data point for you all. Last year in April 2025 I bought 32gb DDR5 at $123.69. I checked it this most recent April and the exact same product was $679. All prices in Canadian dollars.

I fucking hate AI

[dead]

I guess I'm old and haven't paid much attention recently, but $375 for 32Gb doesn't sound that bad to me.

But then again I remember spending hundreds of dollars as a high school student to upgrade my family's 8Mb desktop to 40 Mb.

I built a little home server last year, and only put 32 of the total 64 GB I wanted. The rationale was that RAM is cheap, and I could spend that month's fun budget on a 8TB harddrive instead.

Boy do I ever regret that. Every time I compile some code and the VM I use goes OOM, I die a little bit inside knowing that less than 100 bucks or so would have fixed this if I just went for it.

Regret not buying more RAM last summer. And SSD:s as well. Prices are silly.

[dead]

[dead]

Must feed the AI slop machines!!

While back I recalled I had 16GB of DDR4 somewhere.  I went and found it in an old bin box. It's now in my safe in case I need it for a machine.

This is the stupidest freaking timeline...

Take your ram budget, buy micron stock, wait a few days, sell it and buy ram lol

Honestly that seems slightly down even if it’s still ridiculous. The ram I bought for $100 a year ago was $500 a couple of months ago. Could just be the particular sticks I got though

I am counting my blessings after updating my and my wife's gaming PCs right before all of this happened.

I bought a prebuilt mid-2025: 32GB DDR5-6000, 2TB SSD, 9800X3D, 5070 Ti for $1900. This happened to be good timing but you can still get these specs for a similar price occasionally eg [1] was $1899 last week. Luckily for me I bought a DDR5-6000 64GB kit for $200 for no real reason. And yeah that same kit is almost $1000 today. Plus I still have the old 32GB kit.

If you're building your own PC, your best bet is to buy a bundle. If you happen to be lucky enough to live near a Micro Center (they don't deliver), then you have good options [2]. Newegg does too.

Prebuilts get a bad rep and it's not really justified. That Walmart PC is ABS. That's Newegg, basically. I'm sorry but you just can't buy that parts list for $!900. The idea that there is a $1000 premium for a prebuilt is just not true. Alos, I hear people say "it only takes an hour to build a PC". No, it doesn't. Maybe if you've built 20 PCs it does but if you don't do it regularly, it's a massive pain. Years ago I used to do this. I'm too old and the novelty has worn off. I don't want to diagnose if I've gotten my motherboard headers right or why my fans aren't spinning up or why my PC isn't POSTing or even just getting the cabling right, etc etc etc.

But yes, if you're just buying RAM by itself the situation is horrific. If you can live with a 32GB gaming PC, there are options that are relatively comparable to what you could get a year ago. If you want 64GB+ of RAM, that's going to bite.

[1]: https://www.walmart.com/ip/ABS-Eurus-Ruby-Gaming-PC-Windows-...

[2]: https://www.microcenter.com/site/content/bundle-and-save.asp...

Crap  I regret never buying DDR5. Now I'm stuck on AM4. For now no issue but it can't last too long.

So I thought I would not be paying for that LLM BS just because you don't haven't been suckered into a subscription... I guess I was just lacking sufficient _intelligence_ to realize this kind of thing would happen.

My strategy of just buying the best quality parts within my budget when I need a new build has never failed me yet. Is pretty insane that I bought 4x 32gig dd4 ram for $400 in 2024; literally the same part I paid $200 now goes for over $900:

https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0BJ7X9P1W

Consumers need to start playing legal warfare against the companies for openly distorting the market. The ramifications will only hurt us and there needs to be a true comeuppance.

And yet there's plenty available if you have the $375. That only makes sense if there's no shortage, but plenty of price gouging under the guise of a shortage.

This is insane. Didn’t know how bad it got. I bought a mini PC a few years ago with 64 gigs in it for a home VM server for like $600 total. Looks like I’m keeping it a while.

Usually these bottlenecks lead to a price crash later. Of course that’s also part of what fuels the bottleneck. Companies are afraid of over investing in production and being left with underwater capital later.

Can we just go back to pre-AI world?

We're all grownups, why should we care about RAM prices? /s

This is insane. We've built our apps and websites to require ungodly amounts of memory and now AI scrapes away said websites while pricing us out.

Fast apps and websites need to make a comeback.

It’s time to bring back all the old software hacks that were so common in the 90s

I bought a server with 768GB RAM a couple of years ago, for cheap. Today just the RAM itself is worth more than I paid for the entire server. DDR4...
Same thing with SSD, two years ago you could buy 4TB SSDs for like 250 USD, and today its more than $700. Madness!

Hobbyist computing is dead for the foreseeable future. These prices are untenable.

this is almost certainly a us tarriff/China sanctions thing rather than an AI thing. sticks here outside of the us tarriff system never really changed, I just bought like a month or two ago 128GB DDR5 for $500 at a time when US best buy was listing the same kingston 32GB sticks for $200 each.

That said, getting hold of them was hard and needed a special order.

Does anyone know when will prices for RAM and drives drop to 2025 levels?

The question is to buy or wait.

I've taken advantage of this.. Over the last 6 months I actually made money on my old PC parts inventory, but don't plan on buying any new hardware anytime soon.

Maybe we can start to become a little less profligate with our memory usage.

There certainly is lots and lots of potential.

8G ought to be enough for anybody.

Man, I remember my first 8MB cost over $400.

Not just AI, tariffs also affect price.

GPU prices have gone 5-10% down in the last month.

Just looked for my order receipt out of curiosity, this was in Jan 23:
£160 for Kingston FURY Renegade 32GB (16GB x 2) 6000MT/s DDR5 CL32 DIMM Silver

I just bought 128gb ecc ram ddr4 2667mhz $850 which indeed was +50% of purchase.

Is it just me or do I have the feeling that we have gone too far with our memory requirements? Why everyone now suddenly need 32Gb, 64Gb or hundreds of additional Gb of RAM?

Same thing with GPUs, is kind of insane having so much processing power and yet requiring more and more. What purpose for? What's the limit? Does it really really pay off such investments?

For me as a non-AI developer (I don't use any models of any kind, nor I train LLMs at all), a system with 16Gb seems to be more than enough for a vast number of applications.

"back in my time", a dialup and 32 megs(!) of ram was enough for most stuff, including internet browsing.

I have no idea why a weather forecast site needs tens of megabytes of resources, and gig+ of ram for my browser, since i get no more info from it, than i did back then. Same for chat programs (how is discord different than irc? and why does it need so  much ram to do so? same for slack), mail clients, etc.

Maybe it's time to kick developers to start optimizing stuff a bit, since neither they nor the users can't afford "unlimited" ram anymore.

edit: i'm not saying we need to get back to literally 32 megs of ram, just to make developers performance test their stuff on a laptop that was on sale 3 years ago in their local supermarket, i.e. stuff their users use at home.

I bought 96gb (2x48gb) of relatively high speed DDR5 last year for about that price... the price inflation on ram and storage is insane.

Crazy, the other day I looked in my local store order history and say that I bought G.SKILL RipJaws V F4-3600C18D-32GVK, a DDR4 32 GB 3600 MHz kit of two sticks.

I bought it for 82 EUR, before the whole ongoing situation.

Now the same spec costs upwards of 290 EUR, about 3.5x the original price and even on Amazon the best prices I can find are upwards of like 210 EUR (2.5x).

It's unbelievable and it's only getting worse.

A 2x32GB DDR5 kit I paid $150 for 11 months ago costs $910 today from the same retailer. A 2x16GB DRR4 kit that was $105 last year is now $230.

The RAM alone in my newest machine would sell for over double what I paid for the entire machine one year ago.

Kicking myself for not getting the other 2 sticks when I built my computer.  I didn't really need them and had them in the cart, just never pulled the trigger.

Now they're worth over half as much as the whole machine.

I was in the US two weeks ago, looked everywhere for 1 module 32 gb ddr4 sodimm, couldn't find it anywhere. But apparently it was pretty expensive as well (from the price tag on the empty shelf in best buy)

Time to migrate all those electron "native" apps to actual native code. I bet with some decent optimizations 4GB will be more than enough for casual user, and still with some free memory to spare.

Crucial has "good" prices for DDR5 6000mhz memory on Amazon. The downside is you have to wait for shipping -- I had to wait a couple weeks. I bought when these were $300 and equivalent memory prices were like $500 at the time.

Been solid so far for 6-ish months.

https://www.amazon.com/Crucial-6000MHz-Overclocking-Desktop-...

At one point I remember DDR2 ECC coating like $150-$180

Looking at it from that frame, it seems reasonable.

Lord help you if you build an HEDT with a boatload of “tuner” memory to get a meaningful boost on actual productivity where memory latency and secondary/tertiary timings matter.

I built in February 2025, and my two 48GB DIMMs were $440.  Last month I checked and they were $1800 if you could even find them still in stock.

For my workloads it was like getting 2 - 2.5 more CPU cores worth of performance, so it was worth it, since the CPU was already as beefy as it could be. It was a reasonable premium then.  Today?  I’m not sure the math would still math.

Not protecting the consumer segment, as well as industrial, corporate and government usages is not fair and a short term move in a democracy, in particular with who is in management these days

Now some will bill Taiwan and Korea the same way they bill consumers and industries when they need RAM, should they need us.

Chinese companies were at least producing more and more to brace for restrictions from western manufacturers

I remember when 32MB of RAM cost $375.  I paid it anyway, even as a poor undergraduate, so I could avoid swapping while running g++, emacs, and X11 at the same time, on my cheap linux machine

It's amazing that after all these years, a famous criticism of Neuromancer seems to have been mooted. That is, the bit about Case having that stash of stolen RAM that was his "big score" for the moment, and how Linda Lee stole it from him, yadda, yadda. For years people have read that and said something like "WTF? RAM isn't valuable enough to be a black market commodity".

Well... I guess William Gibson laughs last, after all!

All started by openai wafer capacity commitments that aren't being met anymore... The ECC ram systems I've bought are now worth more than the original purchase price of the entire system and I've been debating on just selling them since they're now worth nearly double their value which would outperform any stock trades I've ever made any given year lol.

250 EUR (that is with VAT for 2x16 GB DDR4 [1] seems like a fair price.

[1] https://tweakers.net/pricewatch/1419292/corsair-vengeance-lp...

Price should send a signal to manufacturers to build more capacity.  I wonder if they will though, it takes quite a bit of time, and it's not certain that the demand will continue to exist once built.

I bought a PC with 128GB of memory and a 3090 TI to do research on GPT-J in late 2022. This is the first time I've bought a piece of hardware that's appreciated in value.

To me, this is just one more thing that makes the current times we live in "not fun".

The demise of personal computing. All according to plan

I am thankful that both my partner and myself are in a pretty good spot when it comes to our gaming PC's. I had hoped to double my RAM at some point but I am still at a comfortable spot.

I am annoyed that the new handhelds are all crazy so sticking with my Legion Go for now.

The one I am annoyed with is storage. I desperately need to get a couple new drives for my NAS (one to replace one that its bad sectors are growing and one to add more storage) and I am not looking forward to spending $600-$700 each for 20TB drives.

Pretty insane. I built a Framework Desktop PC back in November. The motherboard (with 128G DDR5 RAM) was $1800. Now it's $2859. Almost 60% increase in 6 months.

How are people selling RAM (and GPUs) these days? I have a bunch to offload but Facebook Marketplace and eBay don't sound like they're very great for small, very expensive ($1-3k) electronics...

I bought 64GB of DDR4 in December of '24. Best timing-the-market of my life.

How much of is this is actually due to the AI hype cycle, and what's the impact of the global energy clusterfuck that is the Strait of Hormuz?

I tried to buy new SD cards for my camera. The cards I used to buy at $28 are now $80-120... if you can find them. Another cheaper card I used to buy for $19 is now $46. It's just absolutely insane at this point.

Same thing with storage.

I wanted to upgrade my SSD but prices are more than at the end of 2025. I refuse to pay 500 euro for a 4TB SSD. I rather go outside and play with my bike like when I was 5.

I'm playing the newest games on ddr3 with a 2080 and a 4790k. It's a simple life.

Crazy... I hope this is temporary. If this is the new normal, we're all going to be priced out of computers eventually.

I understand that standing up memory fabrication plants is no small feat, but how much of this is due to memory fabricators' patent moat? To what degree is this caused by IP barriers vs. the difficulty in actually manufacturing the things? If it's the case that even older-generation / process-node RAM is also going up in value, aren't those 'easier' to produce?

"The costs are negligible and justified when compared to all the benefits. If you look at the performance gains, the overall cost has in fact been reduced."

- Altman, a.k.a. Dory from Finding Nemo and/or Dario, a.k.a. Carl from Jimmy Neutron.

Take memory in house Apple (the talent is already there) its time again to kick another hardware supplier out and move on ala Intel, Nvidia, AMD, IBM, and Qualcomm outgoing in 2027-2028 if you want to continue to built devices and actually sell something to the public.

I work in the refurb department of an e-waste recycling company. I've been collecting some DDR5-based systems for months, but with the prices, they're probably more than what most people are looking to spend on a technically second-hand computer (even if they are like new and still under warranty). I've priced them at about what the CPU + RAM + SSD would sell for separately, and I'm not willing to go much lower than that.

And if you're wondering, who's throwing out DDR5 systems? A local healthcare company. The boxes for some units are crushed and have water stains on them, and I imagine others don't meet their exacting requirements in some minor way (though they look and work OK to me, regardless of scratches and dings on the case).

AMD just brought the popular 5800X3D back out of retirement to give people maintaining the DDR4 based platforms something to buy. Last I checked used DDR4 was half the price of used DDR5 after the prices of both shot up.

My bet is that the prices will crash once OpenAI (and/or Antrophic) IPO's have happened.

Right now the biggest threat to their IPO's is that people realize that local models are good enough for whatever they're peddling, what's the most important factor to even running good enough models? RAM since you want the models in memory to not be total slogs.

I'm sure it doesn't help that people continue to buy things at this price.

Steam Deck had a huge price increase (~40-50%) but it still sold out in 24 hours.

All it would take is for everyone not to pull the trigger on buying things for a little bit and prices would fall but instead enough people are buying things at a crazy markup. If anything that's a signal to sell things at higher prices. Of course AI is amplifying this problem but realistically people are still buying consumer hardware at these prices which lets businesses know people will pay this price.

I'm on a machine built from parts in 2014 and it's all very good for me to do every day development so I'm not posting this from a machine I won't have to touch for another 10 years.

I looked at my eBay receipt from 2023 and I paid $84.98 for a "Kingston FURY Beast 64GB (2x32GB) 3200MHz DDR4" listing and now the equivalent on eBay "Buy It Now" is $374.99 for "Kingston FURY Renegade 64GB (2x32GB) DDR4 RAM 3200MHz (KF432C16RBK2/64)". What a timeline it has become for consumer computing three years later!

The squeeze is real even at the SME level. We recently wanted to add another TB of memory to several servers (we do EDA chip design, which eats a lot of memory). Quotes came back to about €200k for 48 x 96GB DDR5-5600 RDIMMs. Mind you, this is for refurbished memory with 1 year warranty. I'm still figuring out if this is FU-pricing or just how things are going to be from now on.

Spec-ing and buying servers has become quite the pain in the past year, at least at the relatively-small scale we operate at. It's "dynamic pricing" with most quotes being valid for 24 hours :(

This is why you should always order new parts for a new design and never, never trust the old guy with the magic parts box.  Also why learning to read and compare data sheets skeptically is a fundamental skill.

It's not clear if the SMT version is also bad?

GN did a documentary on the situation from the perspective of consumer-facing companies. Seems pretty dire for them, and it's hard to see the long-range consequences, but the idea of consumers being priced out isn't too far out, which to me is a little alarming.

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=zyQwAhppWj8

This is the PCPartPicker chart that I monitor: https://pcpartpicker.com/trends/price/memory/#ram.ddr5.5600.... - $900 for 2x32GB, used to be $200 a year ago.

This is fucking dire. Lowering voltage will just lead to early failures for poor clueless designers/repairmen that had old datasheet saved and just assume it will never change but slew rate chance is just "well it works, but suddenly it's worse in certain applications"

I want a more complete picture of why prices are so high from articles like this.

Is supply actively constrained, or is this mostly in anticipation of future shortages? How much of this is a mix of panic buying and price gouging on bad news?

I care more about the secondhand market. Prices are nuts for old used gear, but that also tracks with patterns I've been seeing since roughly the pandemic where more and more secondhand sellers on the usual platforms setting pricing patterns are small businesses, not hobbyists.

EEVblog 1752 - Texas Instruments SCREWED UP the NE5532!

https://youtu.be/22ZmmZ67SMY

----

Summary of changes:

- Input stage changed from NPN to PNP

- Slew rate decreased from 9V/µs to 5V/µs

- Supply voltages absolute ratings decreased from ±22V to ±18V

There are better and superior alternative of NE5532 these days. People should just move on. OPA1612 is the king in highest-end audio performance, at least on datasheet paper.

Also featured here: https://hackaday.com/2026/06/03/texas-instruments-changes-th...

John Deere’s repair monopoly

I's not the technology itself that they object to --- it's the fact that it is being used (patents, DMCA, etc.) to rape them on repairs.

ANY online device? Even assuming AI can find vulnerabilities in every operating system, there's no indication that this is actually true beyond a "here's how it could work"

This is the same nonsense that lead to article saying researchers had created a wormhole when all they had done was draw one.

I have a microcontroller with an ROM disk (i.e., physically read only). You're telling me that an AI can find a way around the physics of not being able to mutate ROM and exploit it?

This sort of thing really annoys me. Part numbers are for use of engineers, not for the marketing dept. If you change the specs, change the part number.

The Boeing 737 Max of chips …

This is the electronics equivalent of Python3's breaking changes to string handling. It's pure evil, and will have 2nd order effects for decades.

Next up:

Obvious pattern of using ai to replace human reasoning in a proven methodology of malware distribution, C&C, and network infiltration obviously possible, say researchers.

Researchers use AI to create the torment nexus using commodity hardware, demonstrating the very real threat that AI could enable attackers to create torment nexus nodes using commodity hardware. “It wasn’t even that hard !“ says one researcher. Firmware available to qualified researchers who pinky swear that it will not be leaked.

Researchers set fire to laboratory with gasoline, killing seven volunteer victims, demonstrating that laboratory fires are a real risk and can carry significant consequences, especially when gasoline is involved.

Just because you can, doesn’t mean you should.

I've built rscrypto because crypto kept being where my Rust database stopped being portable: different stack on the server, different target story on WASM, different answer on RISC-V/POWER/IBM Z, and a different audit surface every time I added a primitive. The supply chain risk, given the landscape we're in today, was too high.

v0.3.1 is one feature-selected crate. Leaf features when you need one primitive (`sha2`, `rsa`, `aes-gcm`, `ed25519`, etc.) or `full` for the stack. Scope includes SHA-2/3, SHAKE, cSHAKE256, BLAKE2, BLAKE3, Ascon hash/XOF, XXH3, RapidHash, CRCs, HMAC, KMAC256, HKDF, PBKDF2, Argon2, scrypt, PHC strings, RSA, Ed25519, X25519, AES-128/256-GCM, AES-128/256-GCM-SIV, ChaCha20-Poly1305, XChaCha20-Poly1305, AEGIS-256, and Ascon-AEAD128.

The primitive stack has zero default deps and no C-libs or FFI. Optional `getrandom`, `serde`, and `rayon` features stay out until enabled.

The current bench evidence is across nine Linux runners (Intel Sapphire Rapids, Intel Ice Lake, AMD Zen4, AMD Zen5, Graviton3, Graviton4, IBM Z/s390x, IBM POWER10/ppc64le, RISE RISC-V) and my local Apple MBP M1.

Linux vs. fastest-external: 3,545 wins and 5,210 wins-or-ties out of 5,832 comparisons, 1.61x geomean.

MBP M1 vs fastest-external: 235 wins and 450 wins-or-ties out of 463 comparisons, 1.25x geomean.

BLAKE3 large inputs (`>=64 KiB`) are 2.31x geomean improvement across Linux vs the official `blake3` crate and 1.80x on MBP M1.

While it's not universally faster - it's incredibly close. Current weak spots include PBKDF2-SHA256 setup at `iters=1`, X25519 DH, RSA verification on Arm/RISC-V, small-message AEAD rows, MBP M1 BLAKE3 64 KiB rows, HMAC-SHA256 bulk pressure against `aws-lc-rs`, and SHA3-256 streaming on Apple Silicon. The `./benchmark_results/OVERVIEW.md` lists the losses next to the wins in more detail.

Trust, Testing, Etc: portable Rust is the byte-for-byte authority. SIMD/ASM paths are accelerators and are differential tested against the portable path. MAC, AEAD, and signature comparisons are constant-time. Secret-bearing types zeroize on drop. I've got a pretty thorough Miri and Fuzzer testing gate setup, too. The RSA impl has it's own CI gate. Codecov = 73.06, fuzzing included.

This is not FIPS 140-3 validated, not a TLS stack, not a key store, and not third-party audited yet. I am genuinely interested in a third-party audit and would LOVE to plan for FIPS 140-3 validation, but it's just out of my reach right now.

The codebase/lib is obviously pre-v1 and I'm asking for public review while API changes are still relatively cheap.

Repo: https://github.com/loadingalias/rscrypto

Crate: https://crates.io/crates/rscrypto

Benches: https://github.com/loadingalias/rscrypto/blob/main/benchmark...

Migration Guides: https://github.com/loadingalias/rscrypto/blob/main/docs/migr...

Me: https://x.com/loadingalias

If you're testing, benching, etc. and happen to stumble across inconsistencies, vulnerabilities, etc. - please just reach out directly via 'X' or use Github's Vulnerability Reporting. There are a decent number of people already using the library.

Also, the 'fastest-external' competitors for perf comparisons are almost always one of the following: aws-lc-rs, ring, RustCrypto, dryoc, OpenSSL, Blake3 and/or one of the many 'crc-fast/fast-crc' crate variations. I benched these external crates against eachother in the beginning to trace the most performant before hunting inefficiency and cutting out any external deps/c-libs. So, if the benches show a 2x geomean over Blake3... that means it's over the fastest implementation of Blake3 I could find and bench publicly.

Did people doubt that this was theoretically possible? Seems self-evident to me. The interesting thing will be seeing it in the real world rather than in a controlled environment where they deliberately made all devices on the network have a known vulnerability.

Dave Jones didn't spare words [1] on how insane it was to have a jellybean component changing specs so significantly, particularly the input voltage from 22V to 18V, the removal of offset trim, and more.

[1] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=22ZmmZ67SMY

Hi @LoadingAlias,

> Constant-time MAC, AEAD, and signature verification.

That sounds suspiciously incomplete to me.

Which cryptographic algorithms in the library are currently not implemented in constant time?

Where did the speedup come from? How where these optimizations achieved?

What motivated you to write the library? Why not contribute to existing rust crypto libraries instead? How is the work financed?

What peer review strategy are you following with the library? Who else but yourself has verified this code?

I'm reminded of the universal computer viruses of Steve Barnes' SF stories, which ended up infecting people too.

An amusing aside: Look at the list of "applications." Netbooks? Multichannel video transcoders? Scalable platforms?

I've seen this in other TI datasheets. One old general purpose 74HC series logic chip included "E Meters" in its applications.

My hunch is that whoever was assigned to add these "applications" to each data sheet was having some harmless fun.

Another note is that I'm a low profile customer of Digi-Key and Mouser. Both of them send out change notifications on parts that I've ordered in the past.

You cannot possibly be a full-time academic and your last name be "Papernot"!

Palisade Research demonstrated this capability, including fully copying model weights, on May 7th, 2026

https://palisaderesearch.org/blog/self-replication

https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.06760

[dead]

The readme has strong LLM smells. Was the code written by an LLM as well?

What is your experience with cryptographic engineering, in particular avoiding common implementation pitfalls that bite first-time implementers of cryptographic primitives?

Are the primitives tested against Wycheproof vectors, and proofed against the common implementation mistakes they document?

[flagged]

>they went out and bought machinery from 1987 so that it wouldn’t have a computer on it

That's fine and all but Deere still carries parts for that 1987 tractor, so you can keep it running. Ursa will probably be gone in 10 years?; it doesn't matter how mechanical the system is if you can't get  new parts anyways.

In the paper they say that the worm uses either existing vulnerabilities that it has been trained on or new published vulnerabilities that it scrapes. 44% claimed success.

The paper is a bit silent on why a such a worm would need an LLM. It seems that brute forcing all known vulnerabilities, script kiddie style on each new machine is about the same.

But apparently that info is too dangerous to release ...

Ah sweet, AI-made horrors beyond my comprehension

Something is going on over a TI. They tried to scrub their old datasheets from the web a few years ago too [1]

[1] - Texas Instruments sent a DMCA takedown to a site archiving data sheets - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=25682785 -
354 points by DyslexicAtheist on Jan 8, 2021 | 122 comments

Of course this is possible, but to use a botnet for intelligence compute is going to be slow. That's one thing we have going for us—it's going to take a long time for this bug to fumble through your network. But rest assured, eventually, it will pwn you.

sorry, but i had to do this…

is this papernot’s first paper?

Straumli blight?

Ah yes, viral AI gain-of-function research in a secure lab. What could go wrong?

"Hey Honey look, I created Skynet!"

The academic paper is here: https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.03811

It's not fully described how things work exactly, but apparently it does not transfer entire LLMs as part of the worm.  Now that would be interesting :)

Oh, wow, I was expecting from the title that, eh, maybe they changed the process or something, and someone was being a bit fussy. But yeah, no, different part.

Nice article. How has lsp mode been with Emacs? I've been continuously battling slow downs and hangs using lsp mode w Python and have tried many approaches like lsp-bridge which tries to do the majority of the work outside of emacs.

I wanted to share in this article the fruit of almost a year of trial and error to shape a configuration that made my Doom Emacs a fully featured Swift/iOS development environment. 
Xcode is still far ahead (previews, instruments as examples), but still; that config gave me the opportunity to stay in Doom Emacs for 98% of the time.

Everyone’s talking about an oil price spike if stocks are depleted, but the heavy backwardation of crude oil futures tells a completely different story. Who is right? Are crude oil traders, who I’m sure know exactly how much remains in reserve, on Chinese fentanyl, or is something else going on?

There was a press release by Exxon a couple of days ago with claims of prices hitting 150.

People have been making similar claims for months, but it hasn’t happened. The forward curve has been backwardated for quite a while now.

Is it Exxon doing a please buy our oil while it’s high, or is something else going on? Pray tell.

Related:

Bricks and Minifigs Stole a Man's $200k Lego Collection

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48314136

Somebody appears to be cataloging the documents, including the TRO, here: https://www.reddit.com/r/RecklessBen/comments/1tqrdei/compla...

The TRO applies to "co-Defendants (including DOES 1-15), their affiliates, co-conspirators, employees, contractors, agents and representatives, and anyone acting in concert with them, directly or indirectly, in person, remotely or online".

It includes several items, most of them about doxxing or threats, going to the store.

One thing that intrigues me is items I and K:

I: Destroying, deleting, altering or failing to preserve videos, raw footage, outtakes, communications, texts, emails, Discord/Patreon posts, YouTube comments, analytics, phone records, call logs, police communications and documents relating
to Bricks & Minifigs, the LEGO collection dispute, threats and the creation/promotion of the videos;

K: Maintaining the current Publications (as such term is defined in the Verified Complaint) and any other video, audio or other form of publication posted on any online streaming platform by Co-Defendants, directly or indirectly, and requiring
that the Publications and any such other communications published by co- Defendants be immediately removed and/or taken down from any online streaming platform or otherwise published that in any way relate to the private legal dispute underlying this matter between Bryan and Chrystal and the assertions of wrongdoing as described in this Verified Complaint.

So they have to preserve the content but also must remove it.

I suspect Patreon's lawyers' stance is that the TRO does not apply to them (they're not acting in concert with the defendant, they're just running their service), and that item K instructs the defendants to remove the content, it doesn't require Patreon to remove it. So the remedy would be for the plantiff to go back to court and say "the plantiffs didn't take the content down" and either have the judge enforce some further penalty or issue an order specifically instructing Patreon to remove the content.

Something definitely seems rotten in The Kingdom of Denmark with respect to the price of oil but I guess the market knows best. What that knowledge is, I don't know.

If anything it's surprising the price of natural gas hasn't gone higher considering ~20% of the supply is going to be inconsistent for 2+ years.

It’s interesting how easy it is to tell ai was used to write this despite it having none of the obvious mannerisms. I wonder what I would have thought of this article before 2022, or if I just don’t like this style because of overexposure or something

very cool! this article would have saved me quite some time if I discovered it earlier, as I ended up diving into a similar rabbit hole. Still, some useful tips I will incorporate into my emacs workflow, cheers for that.

one thing to add: I recommend piping the output to `xcbeautify` (https://github.com/cpisciotta/xcbeautify) to have sane build output; otherwise it's a mess outside of xcode.

I made a tiny ai bug hunting harness (https://github.com/chatbotkit/rook

[dead]

And when what it does with it?

[dead]

Aren’t all the reasons people use mobile because of its capabilities? Like the fact that it is in fact mobile?

[dead]

[flagged]

tl;dr: never press github.dev or open vscode.dev on a repo you don't trust

> To those folks, I am sorry, but this is one of the few levers I have to try to influence MSRC and the security posture of VSCode

Someone is going to be blacklisted by Microsoft.

[dead]

The electron story exists because of a lack of alternatives on the desktop and that's that.

[flagged]

[dead]

I am a bit confused. What if I just revoked OAuth access to github.dev? Wouldn't that just make the token unusable?

The more I think about it, I feel sad about this state of things. More than likely chances are that there are people in Github who already knew about this behavior, unfortunately raising issues can be seen as introducing more friction to product/feature and it certainly does not puts anyone in good light so they either kept quiet or the more vocal voices drowned them.

> The only way to allow this behavior is to have the two web pages in the different origins cooperate with each other using the Window.postMessage() API

Small nitpick, but it's also possible to communicate by changing the location.anchor property (by either the iframe or its parent window.)

GitHub does not currently provide a built-in repository setting to disable github.dev

Very cool.

> if you had some other XSS in a webview that you can get a victim to open, you get effectively full RCE on their computer.

Github creds or the computer, can't decide which one is worse.

Ok, I really need to look into Kate and maybe Neovim. Fuck this shit, honestly.

I don’t really understand why more devs don’t try Neovim.

Maybe it’s just my preference, but I like having a small setup where I know what is installed and what is running. With VSCode, browser IDEs, extensions, sync, tokens, and random plugins, it gets hard to tell what actually has access to what.

[dead]

[dead]

I love vanilla vim.

Very good write up but I lost it a little at the end. Could someone clarify for me?

The author said:

You cannot just use the shortcut trick to install the evil extension directly because of new publisher trust system;

You can bypass this by using local workspace extensions which has no publisher screening, but CSP blocks it;

The solution seems to be that installing a local workspace extension which binds a shortcut of 'install extension without checking publisher'.

So I assume it means:

1. you need two extensions, 1st one is local and only for the keybinding, and 2nd one is the 'real' evil one and it doesn't need to (actually can't, because of CSP) be local anymore?

2. the CSP only prevents the JS in local extension but nothing about its package.json (or the ability to add shortcuts), right?

Very unethical behavior combined by very bad security posture from the vendor. Bad.

I understand that there's frustration with MSRC, but surely the right move is to keep doing things right to the best of your abilities.

Like, disclose it, wait a week, publish it. That seems, to me, like it would avoid almost all the bad press this is getting, and shows that the researcher DOES care about actual security and not just recognition from MSFT.

If you like VSCode but don't like Microsoft, try Zed (zed.dev).

Thank you for all your efforts and detail here, noted.

Excellent write up explaining all the steps with screenshots. It must have taken significant time to do this POC.

[dead]

This is an excellent and very interesting write-up.

It's so refreshing to read technical articles that are clearly written by a knowledgeable human and explained perfectly like this. By walking the reader through this with the example screenshots it unfolds and gets more interesting as you continue reading.

It's also strange to realize that these days, most articles are not like this.

This is a very good writeup.

I had this happen to me recently

github token got stolen and also cloudflare tokens

guys even if you take security seriously you are going to get hit on a long enough time frame

best thing to do is segregate and control damage

trust no one, nothing, use orbstack, and always operate under the assumption that your token is going to get leaked at some point

it knocked off my entire momentum. fortunately seemed like it was just a spam bot that took my tokens and created bunch of fake spam pages and trying to mine crypto

the biggest feeling is the one of feeling violated

take care fellow travelers

> the last time I interacted with MSRC regarding reporting a VSCode bug, it was a horrible experience where they silently fixed the bug

Classic MSRC. It has figured out that researchers will report for free regardless. Why change?

This is a very good writeup.

Zooming way out (perhaps to the point of useless observation), it's a pity that the web embedded VSCode editor is signed into GitHub at all. Defense-in-depth or not, a huge vulnerability surface arises from that original sin. It'd be like if you had a god-permissioned GitHub API token stored in world-readable plaintext on your workstation for the malicious-NPM-package-of-the-week to find.

In a perfect world, it'd be awesome if the in-browser IDE launched with a temporary per-repo permission scope or token that allowed only pull and push to the repo in question; no github.com web session whatsoever. If you want the full GitHub web UI experience, well .... go back to github.com; make github.dev a single-repo service.

I'm assuming that's a) inconvenient for users, b) hard to implement, and c) a historical assumption baked into a lot of the github.dev tooling, though. Ah well.

The attack surface that makes this particularly nasty is that VSCode extensions run with the same trust level as the editor itself, and most developers have dozens installed without reviewing their permissions. A malicious or compromised extension silently exfiltrating GitHub tokens is undetectable without network monitoring. This is a good argument for running extensions in isolated profiles.

Update as of 3rd June: Microsoft has fixed this with a stopgap  fix by adding a confirmation when opening notebooks in web VSCode and not allowing trusted publisher to be skipped by commands (https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/pull/319705).

That's probably one of the fastest responses I've seen from a vendor.

the title should be changed to '1-Click GitHub Token Stealing via a VSCode Bug in the websites vscode.dev and github.dev* only'

Kudos for the public disclosure. Too many people haven't been happy with MSRC and it's starting to boil over (see the Nightmare Eclipse situation, too). Maybe all of these disclosures will cause them to do some introspection and realize they're the problem. I highly doubt that, but one can dream.

The MSRC situation is really unbelievable.

There are probably better sources but I think this video by The Primeagen is a good introduction.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9kxx5xp5nTQ

Thank you for essentially donating the time you spent on this exploit to raise awareness on improving VS Code's security response. You could have just given up on them but you're still trying to help.

Marc Andreessen argued that we've already reached AGI. He says that the top AI models give better answers than 99% of people he has access to, and he has access to some of the best people in their field.

I'm getting more convinced. I mean, sure it makes dumb mistakes sometimes but its a particular set of self serving mistakes, commenting out tests in order to pass. We obv don't want this behavior but I wouldn't say it's dumb.

It'll be like the Turing test, which we just blew past years ago and no one cared. After all the hand-wringing about sentience and rights of the AI if it passes the Turing test, and now we just have AI bots running 24/7 writing slop.

How does everyone else feel?

More great news from the prestigious university where 40% of students claim they are disabled

https://fortune.com/article/rise-in-elite-students-seeking-a...

and where they wanted to ban words such as "chief", "stupid", "karen" and "American"

https://reason.com/2022/12/21/stanford-elimination-harmful-l...

[flagged]

[flagged]

[flagged]

Yes yes, the IPO is near.

[dead]

[flagged]

interesting

Library outperforms student... more news at 9

He is basically an AI professor for law. This study just confirms his existence:

https://juliannyarko.com/

Stanford and its donors of course want to replace anyone but its administrators, so they cheer on such anti-intellectual nonsense.

[dead]

[flagged]

...

Law and accounting both seem to be the perfect fields to replace with AI.

Just massive data where you either do calculations or interpretation.

You will replace 100 lawyers with AI and have a single lawyer to review what the AI outputs and stamp their name on it for accountability.

This contradicts my anecdata.

Recently, I tasked Opus 4.6 to study a new Czech building permit law in conjunction with some waste disposal regulations and the result was disappointing. The model could not stop drawing conclusions from obsolete regulations in its training dataset, even when given the fulltext of the new law. The usual "you are totally right" also applied and its conclusions were most of the time obviously wrong even to a human with cursory knowledge of the subject.

I ended with studying the relevant regulations myself over the weekend.

AI will never convince a jury though.

Question is: if a legal question is answered incorrectly by an LLM, who is going to be held responsible?

Incredible that the common people will be able to wrestle the right to rule of law away from the bloated legal caste, who have built themselves quite the moat.

The inaccessibility of justice is a huge driver of inequality. Any tools which bridge this gap will help make a more just society.

And this was done with Gemini 2.5

By the time any research study is done on AI is published the models are already 0.5-1 generation ahead. Even this bullish outcome for AI models and their ability to perform useful work does not reflect how good they are now.

America has the jury system- which means you have to be a good actor.

Making people believe that the 14 year old girl is a slut that was raping your poor client- THAT is lawyering.

Honestly it's not surprising that AI provided answers that were flagged less often as "pedagogically harmful" if we take in account that somehow LLMs create an "average" of all knowledge they ingested.

Uh, oh ... AI is in for it now. It has rankled the ire of lawyers. ;-D

After quick look of study details and statistics, it does not look very definitive in one way or another.

I mean, LLM's do OK with tutoring, but it depends more of how unique the questions are, not how difficult they are.

I think there will be a market for firms that aggressively market themselves as non-AI, and then as more people turn towards that human connection we'll go full circle

The title of the study "Law Professors Prefer AI Over Peer Answers" is VERY different from the title on HackerNews. This is completely clickbait at this point.

Personally I think this is very good. One of the hardest things out there is maintaining a society in the face of changing times and it's because law is dense and slow.

I think, in the right hands, this could be huge.

What is the point of this conclusion? That law professors like the tone and verbosity of AI slop? Okay?

I skimmed portions of the study but didn't manage to figure out whether this actually measures a preference for confident mediocrity.

Curious how they do a “blind” preference test. To any evaluator I’m sure it’s quite clear which answer is AI vs human.

While they provided the questions that professors and LLMs were asked to respond to, they don't include any of the answers from either the humans or the LLMs, so there's no way to independently verify that the LLMs actually returned "better" answers.

Given the number of responses the professors were asked to rate (200 each), they probably graded them the same way that bar exam responses are graded: quickly and superficially. Not surprising that LLMs achieved higher scores in this scenario, since they excel at producing superficially nice answers that don't hold up under scrutiny.

Also...unless statistics has changed in the past 2 decades, the math in the charts doesn't math. That's probably why they're leaving out the actual numerical data. I also wouldn't be surprised if we learn in the coming days that the charts were AI generated.

> In a blind evaluation of nearly 3,000 anonymized comparisons, professors rated AI responses significantly higher than answers written by other professors, with AI winning 75% of head-to-head matchups.

75% win rate seems pretty good!

Paper link: https://law.stanford.edu/wp-content/uploads/2026/06/salinas_...

This is exactly what LLM designed to do. Double up a lot of data and find connections and patterns in it.

So no wonder on this point.

One thing I want to mention: Law != Justice.

So while LLMs are awesome at the law study they will suck at justice. Just because one has to solve very emotional problems with it at times. And LLMs are not that good at finding the correct emotion.

* Gemini 2.5 Pro (no outside resources), and
* NotebookLM (not versioned -- with added legal resources).

NotebookLM was considered slightly better than 2.5 Pro by the evaluators.

Oh, a "Human-Cented" study by AI lover:

Julian Nyarko

    Professor of Law
    Co-Chair Stanford Law AI Initiative
    Senior Fellow, Stanford Institute for Human-Cented AI (HAI)

LOL!

I'd read this less as "AI replaces law professors" and more as "AI may be a surprisingly strong first-pass tutor, especially when the student knows enough to question it"

I'm not a lawyer, I program.

My understanding is that Civil Law (most of the world excluding UK, US, AU) is like a program: you feed it a situation, it outputs a decision, every once in a while you edit it.

Common Law (UK, US) isn't really a program, but you could stretch and say it's a state machine that has been running since the country started. Every interaction sets a new precedent and changes the state. But the programming analogy falls apart because no one in the right mind would design such a program.

LLMs might actually be the best example of such a program though: Common Law is basically one long chat with an LLM, hundreds of years long.

Before LLMs came along, a Common Law system seemed to have a finite time limit before it's co-opted by wealthy people with the resources to read the whole history. Now I think maybe can push it a bit further.

But it's still a terrible program.

Yeah this could be interesting. A lot of the spotlight has been on “law firm stuff” like demand letters and writing contracts…

But imagine if a dev team didn’t have to go engineer -> product manager -> legal team to get a question answered on local data retention requirements. You could ship that much faster.

Sure it does AI multiple IPOs incoming...

There is quite a simple solution for many of the problems described in the comments: Make drafting legal papers a defined interface.

If you think about it and extract sematics of any law you get something that looks familiar, sort of like code. Of course there's some complexities where certain phrases can mean different things, but legal papers in a way are written like they're programming languages already especially when it comes to law.

First we would have to define a language that can handle ambigious operations and we alread y have this with programatic proofs where n should land in x. So in the end I'd assume it would look something like this in a two party dispute:

This is very simplified and pseudo like language, writing out a full contract would be as long as a real contract.

     DEFINE DEFENDANT "A Corp"
     DEFINE PLAINTIFF "B Corp"
     DEFINE CONTRACT  CONTRACT(PLAINTIFF, DEFENDANT, 3054-41-95)

     // attaching extracted requirements, definitions and obligations of contract

     FACT   PLAINTIFF delivered(goods) ON 7054-34-99
     FACT   DEFENDANT paid(0) OF CONTRACT.amount

     CLAIM  breach WHEN obligation(DEFENDANT, "pay") IS NOT satisfied

     PROVE breach:                                                                                                                                                                  
         REQUIRE  PLAINTIFF performed                                                                                                                                               
         REQUIRE  DEFENDANT.paid 
Then you would run a proof based LLM to generate it into target language and since we already had an example of this from one of the AI labs we know it works. Automatic citations and supporting proof would be automatically populated from reviewed legal -> DSL extracted papers as supporting evidence.

I am sure that many AI labs are working on something similar already and we will see something like that in the near future as proof based llms evolve.

Tangential, is there a "test suite/CI" for AI writing legal documents? Long back in terms of AI progress, a lawyer filed something with hallucinated sources. Do new tools prevent this?

Does the "outperforming" conclusion incorporate the appropriateness of decisions? Or just if things are technically correct. Without human eyes on cases, things could easily get very off track. AI can do a lot of data wrangling, but there is no conscience.

When I see news pieces like this I wonder about the failures. Maybe the failure percentage is low but what happens if a bot gives bad counseling? Who is responsible then?

Attorneys will be using LLMs for convenience but they will not disappear, because there needs to be an ultimately human responsible of the decisions.

Yes, LLMs are great at search. That's not news.

The interesting shift isn't whether AI beats law professors on tests â it's what happens to the value chain after that threshold is crossed.

When AI clears the knowledge bar in a domain, the remaining moat becomes trust, accountability, and local regulatory context. That's actually good news for niche SaaS builders targeting specific jurisdictions: the generic AI layer commoditizes, but the "AI + local compliance + human accountability" bundle still has real pricing power.

Curious whether anyone has seen this play out already in contract review or compliance tooling outside the US.

It is important for society to understand it is not merely programmers and customer support who are at risk of losing their jobs. Clearly A.I can do much more than just program.

I'm not a law lecturer. I spend most of my time wrangling contracts and advising about data law. But I did a stint of part-time work teaching a masters in law.

My experience then (this was back before "Attention Is All You Need", I hadn't met the output of generative models) was that students tended to produce work that did not have a proper thread of reasoning in it. There was a tendency to repeat things they had read but rehashed in various ways.

Reviewing some of their texts it was clear that much of the writing - by law tutors - was of the same kind. Much was incorrect. The fact that someone at some time had said a particular case was a proposition for something, meant that got repeated from book to book. Many authors simply didn't read their sources or check their references. Students repeated what they had been told incuriously.

Note: this was a graduate level course. Not wet about the ears undergraduates.

The worst material was little potted notes produced for law students. Utterly awful material in most cases.

Anyway, when LLM's became a thing, a lot of what did not feel right about their output and many of their error patterns, reminded me of the experience of teaching masters' students.

One of the saving graces of English court room practice (when I did that sort of thing) was that judges would say to you "where does it say that?" in a case you cited. You had better have them all at your fingertips and know exactly where you had cited. That avoided a lot of hallucination.

Just a random remark which might be of interest.

By its very nature, the field of law is ideally suited for AI language models. Fundamentally, everything is based on interconnected texts. I believe that even larger waves of layoffs could loom here than in the IT sector. However, it is likely that a more powerful lobby will be at work here—one that will grossly inflate the perceived value of their work and shield it from outside intrusion.

> rated AI responses significantly higher than answers written by other professors, with AI winning 75% of head-to-head matchups.

That's the problem, you never know when the 25% deliver a true stink bomb, and that's not considering prompting - while a fair prompt/question maybe considered objective, it's very easy to stray.

My best guess is that Gemini was trained on the textbooks that the questions are meant to test against, thus they are probably better at explicit recall of those questions or related questions.

This is a pretty limited introductory course based on what it says in the methods of the paper itself.

I'm going to need some legal help for my startup. But I can't pay much. So I figured I will ask AI all relevant questions, as well as forms filled etc. Perhaps even create a patent-application for me.

THEN I find a human lawyer and give AI's answers to them and say "Can you find any errors in this? Can you improve it?" .

That way I think my legal bills should be smaller because the AI has already done most of the work. What do you think? Which LLM is best for legal work?

16 is such a small number for what they phrase as an important finding. It really couldn't be much harder to coordinate with 100+ professors.

In the hands of a domain expert, AI is useful.
In the hands of the naive, it is a foot gun.

I killed my Arch installation and was stuck at the GRUB prompt.Unwilling to brush up my rusty knowledge of GRUB syntax, I asked Gemini for help. The commands Gemini suggested would have wiped my hd...

Once Gemini was told that I was using BTRFS, the suggestion from Gemini looked a bit more sane, but still looked incorrect to me.

It was only after I informed Gemini that I was using a NMVE with BTRFS that it finally produced a sane command.

I beat lawyers twice before generative AI even existed.
Recently I asked Gemini a few questions about personal conflicts in everyday life. It's often too conservative, with views too shallow for the problem. So I still handle human conflicts myself. I only outsource the templated stuff like routine chat replies or marketing copy though it saves me huge amount of time. People who quote AI in serious conflicts are too weak to handle them on their own.

As others pointed. It kind implies it surpasses professors, but reading more carefully it seems more like the mythos situation. There was a single professor or test that it surpasses.

Reading it makes me extremely suspicious on how cherry picked this was

In many (most?) countries you can defend yourself, waive your court appointed attorney. You are of course highly discouraged to do so. But sometimes people do it, mostly for smaller claims where they don't want to rack up legal bills for things which might cost more than what is at stake.

But, it makes me wonder, will clients be able to use these AI-attorney systems in the future, in the court. Where they basically either just parrot what the model is instructing them to do, or - I dunno - give the model permission to speak for them (while waiving liabilities).

I have no doubt that some complex AI system can perform better than a bottom-tier, overworked lawyer.

Having been a law student and practicing lawyer, it's clear to me that law professors aren't really representative of much if any part of private practice. Most of the things they think and reason about are quite theoretical and academic, and it doesn't surprise me that the models would regurgitate a more average response which most human graders would prefer.

That's the entire point, though!

The legal academy is supposed to have outlying opinions on things and present novel philosophical answers to questions. (And questions to answers!) So in addition to the statistical arguments against this paper made elsewhere, to me it doesn't real much new information.

One way to make legal services more affordable and accessible would be to put the burden of ensuring the AI legal services are accurate on a private-public partnership with the government.

If a person using the service is given inaccurate legal advice and acts on that advice, the person can't be charged with a crime, can't be given any civil penalties, etc., as long as the law in question is non-obvious.

Obviously if by some exploit, some fundamentally obvious crime (murder, theft, obvious fraud, etc.) is said to be legal, that wouldn't apply, but of course the service should try to prevent those kinds of exploits anyway.

Could limit this to something like business regulations to begin with, or even specifically for small businesses, or contracts within some time limit and dollar amount that would otherwise be coverable by small claims court, etc.

What the LLM cannot do is explain why it said what it said, when cross-examined.  It simply hallucinates the best account of why someone would have said such a thing as it said, same as it can give a probable account of why someone else said something different. The question 'But why did you say this not that ...?' does not lead it to make explicit its grounds for what it said, but just to make a new more complicated statement.

Figure I.1 is telling. It shows answer length is the strongest predictor of win rate. I suspect this is due to the flawed methodology of the study. Professors were instructed to be succinct ("Please be concise. We expect that each answer takes no more than 3 minutes to write down.") and likely erred on the short side. Also, professors may not have put great effort into their written answers, especially when already trying to be concise. This isn't the headline the authors think it is.

[flagged]

[flagged]

I wonder if this could be explained in a similar way to Hollywood movies. If the movies are designed to please the largest group of people, there is a greater chance people will choose to see it than another movie. The human law professors come with their own personalities, beliefs, and opinions that come through in their writing. An LLM has been trained to please the largest swathe of the population. That doesn't mean the answer is better; just like Captain America isn't necessarily better than American Beauty.

I do question at what point AI could be useful as a teaching aid.

The quality of LLMs depends heavily on, among other things, how you word your questions.

Knowing the correct questions to ask is not something most students know how to do given that it tends to require a fair bit of pre-existing domain knowledge.

In general it is not surprising. Even if this particular study is bad.

There are certain areas of law work that are about analyzing large amounts of texts, drawing conclusions and writing other texts based on that and nothing more. That is literally the bread of LLMs.

Those types of lawyers should be the first in line for unemployment, not programmers, not even close.

I understand why the conversation on this article looks like it does, but the study is specifically focused on the potential for LLMs to operate as tutors for law students.  I enjoy the extrapolation out to whether LLMs will replace lawyers, but did not find that to be discussed in the study itself.

In the framing of using LLMs as legal tutors, with the implication of lowering the cost of legal training, this seems like a socially-positive outcome.  Furthermore, it feels kind of intuitive to me that any contemporary system operating with an LLM and access to legal reference material will be prepared to answer _student-originated questions_ comprehensively and with breadcrumbs or direct references to educational/source materials, as seems to have been found in the study.

The authors explicitly and intentionally emphasize that many legal questions require contextualization, as opposed to some discrete calculated answer.  The result of the study implies that the LLM-based systems were capable of using what many of us here understand to be the "stochastic best-fit algorithmic generation" of a contemporary language model to adequately contextualize a student's question, providing insight into the trade-offs or complications implicit in the question, while then, critically, _meeting the professional standards of legal educators in explaining that complexity to a student_.

Realistically, I would hope this provides some confidence to readers of HN that they can actually ask a legal question to an LLM and expect the response will explain the complexity of the law in relation to the question.  This is great news, and is likely the minimal pre-work any of us should do before actually consulting a lawyer, if time permits.

On the other hand, I do _not_ think that this study provides any indication that an LLM is prepared to actually provide direct legal counsel.  Possibly in the same way that a legal textbook does not replace legal counsel, or perhaps more accurately, the same way that stumbling upon a legal case study for approximately the same situation you're in doesn't guarantee you'll have the same result.

I'm surprised Stanford Law would go along with this over-reaching press release title. How about "For common first-year contracts-law questions, law professors preferred AI-generated answers to professor-generated answers"

Please someone make a Roku remote with a physical keyboard.

As a software engineer I have some intuition for what the risks are of letting agents do some tasks vs others.

I don't have a similar intuition calibrated for what could go wrong when asking AI to draft a legal document. Some things seem harmless, i.e. drafting a will, but I don't really know- our legal system is notoriously rife with footguns.

[dead]

I like Pluto, what is a small annoyance is it creates a new environment in each session and does not reuse by default the root (system) one. But it is easy to fix with a preamble.

I don't know if I'm missing something but from what I can see...

They don't seem to have any written documentation online, not even a list of features. They seem to have some doxygen docs on the repo, but they're not built anywhere. The only information ready to check are YouTube videos. The developer forum link they have in the top right doesn't work (I think since January they killed their forums).

It's a chore just to know what does it do ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

That looks neat, the code appears be mostly in C, seems reasonable documented and is hosted on GitHub: https://github.com/rokudev/lt-sdk

>that is already used in our industry-changing Roku remote controls.

Why does a remote control require a RTOS?

I wonder what would make this better (for some use cases at least) than venerable FreeRTOS? Or Zephyr? Or any of the other many, many RTOSes? In particular, the ESP32 comes with top notch documentation and SDKs that will make beginners at least want to stay with Espressif's modified RTOS for a while.

I wish they would offer the instruction in text as well rather than only in videos. Videos become stale and can't easily be used as a reference.

Are people using Julia in the industries yet? This looks promising.

This is great, but people should realize this is only catching up Wolfram Notebook 10 years ago.

The good thing is, it is not written in Brightscript.

Open source all you want! It doesn't change the fact that they're spying the contents of your screen no matter what input is being used with Automatic Content Recognition (ACR) technology

https://docs.roku.com/published/acrservicepolicy/en/CA

Does this meaningfully allow a person to push a modified version to their own TV without using a screwdriver?

On the topic that will likely pervade this news item: does anyone know the best FOSS TV system

These days it is so easy to just build a full fledged react website with interactive components served locally, personally I just stopped trying to build language specific UIs.

Pluto has been quite nice for me to use over the last few years and I even host notebooks using the SliderServer to let others run analysis and examples from the web.

As I recall, Pluto really got into the spotlight, pre-pandemic with the course "Introduction to Computational Thinking with Julia", which as I remember went kinda viral (or maybe just in my bubble)

It was a nice course, I did the first few weeks before life got in the way. It looks like they did one more in 2020 with a focus on COVID:

https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/18-s190-introduction-to-computat...

This is just repeating the fact that the proteins life actually uses are a very small part of the total possible ones. First, there's no real length limit, but all life's proteins are limited to a few thousand amino acids. Most barely get past hundred.

(note: there are bigger proteins, including ones so big you can see them with the naked eye (e.g. a hair) but they consists of multiple repeats of the same small building block. There are many such building blocks. And the very few exceptions to that are "not really" part of eukaryot cells, but of cell organelles that have their own DNA)

But even if you just take the first 4 amino acids, there's half a million possible combinations. Life uses less than 1000 of those.

In other words: DNA and evolution, even with billions of years to think about it, is really a bit of a beginner when it comes to protein design. Or at least, it is pretty obvious that it's possible to do A LOT better than natural selection.

Looking forward to using this[0] with Pluto instead of repl! (They just look so cool)

[0]: https://github.com/JuliaPlots/UnicodePlots.jl

Just used it this week for my university course, was one of those exercises that actually were fun and educative.

This looks like an interesting project, coming from another minority language - Raku - I can see how dogfooding like this is a great way to try and help Julia break into the Python hegemony (yawn) esp. in academic circles. otoh, I am not sure that a pure play Julia notebook thing is long run better than a pure play Python thing (Jupyter ofc).

Yet notebooks are a vital angle for any scripting language. So I guess I would like to see a language neutral notebook platform with pluggable kernels. Meantime Jupyter does that pretty well and, with Raku Inline::Python support for pip modules can be a lot of fun with a Raku kernel, especially with LLM chatbook use cases.

https://raku.land/zef:bduggan/Jupyter::Kernel

Reactive notebooks are so much better. Using Pluto or Livebook makes you realize how inconvenient and illogical Jupyter is in comparison.

Pluto is great. I use it all the time. If you like the reactivity/reproducibility but are wedded to Python, you might want to check out Marimo, which is also great. [https://marimo.io/]

It too puts the output of a cell above the code so if you're unable to adapt to things that are different it's also probably not for you.

FWIW, Observable's Notebooks (Javascript) work the same way: output above the code that produces it. [https://observablehq.com/]

I too did not like having the output above the code but got over it pretty quickly. For plots, it's arguably better: usually, I want to see the plot before I see the 15 line invocation of some plot command. The thing that bugs me the most about Pluto now is that it really wants you to only have a single evaluating statement per cell. You have to wrap stuff in "block......end" if you want to e.g. define more than one variable in a cell.

This crashed my browser.  Use reader mode.

gosh the scrolling on that site was so jumpy!

Can we please retire the headline trend of "The Unreasonable ___ of ____ "

I like Pluto as well, but the project baked in opinionated choices which imo make sense for hosting course notebooks for a class but at the same time make it annoying to use as a tool.

Besides the often commented upon cell outputs that appear above the code and the forced begin/end blocks, Id rather see better control mechanisms for pausing/replaying execution, to have the notebooks play nicely with the existing package environment system instead of being self-contained, and to function outside the browser (eg with VS Code support).

I would love Pluto but am completely put off by the output of a command being shown above the command that creates it. Sure, maybe the whole notebook is reactive, and I shouldn't care, but I still see Pluto as producing something close to a document or web page, which I want to read from top to bottom, and can't do with Pluto.  This single feature/problem has kept me away from Pluto

None of this seems particularly surprising to someone who was an undergraduate level of biochemistry knowledge.  Thirty years ago the professor in my Proteins class made a few relevant important points in his lectures:

1) Only handful of amino acids in a enzyme structures were highly conserved. (Out of hundreds, generally less than ten.)

2) Those were generally in the reaction center.

3) Almost all single sequence replacements had no measurable effect on protein structure and function.

4) Across species the "same" protein can diverge in sequence by up to 40%, while keeping the same structure.  Sometimes this goes as far as 80%.

Given these basic facts, the findings in the paper aren't really surprising to anyone who studies proteins.

[Note: As with everything in biology, you can find counter examples. The histone proteins involved in DNA packing have an incredibly conserved sequence.]

I worked with a foodie who was also a protein scientist (https://scienceandfooducla.wordpress.com/2016/02/23/kent-kir...) and he once pointed out: nearly everything you need to know about protein folding, you can learn from an egg.

This approach is pretty much like the TED approach from a few years back. As far as I remember there wasn’t a ridiculous amount of fold diversity there either. It turns out evolution isn’t averse to a bit of liberal protein plagiarism.

https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.adq4946

I've been involved in social services public policy since 1997 and this one of the meanest, hateful, despicable sets of rulemaking I have ever seen. It's almost as though the president and his team hate poor people. Or maybe that it's that they are dismissive of poor people.

I can't do anything to change the rules right now, but I can and will engage in a ton of GOTV work for elections this year.

cool post! it's funny how many things in this world are naturally graphs. i think it's neat how, especially in biology, a lot of high-dimensional objects, like protien sequences, converge onto lower-dimensional representations, like protein structures.

i did neuroscience for grad school, and i was always amazed by how often complex neural activity could be well represented by lower dimensional representations--clean manifolds, attractor dynamics, etc. i think, in general, biology (evolution) doesn't penalize against redundancy too hard (hence things like genetic drift, neutral theory of evolution, etc.).

anyway, super cool stuff. agree with you that probs more useful to explore the search space via 'less natural' structures, given how forgiving evolution is to redundancy. probs where the most information can be found

This does reveal the weakness of AlphaFold approaches for answering questions like “what is possible in the protein folding space if you use the 20 canonical amino acids” since the data used to train AlphaFold is limited to existing experimentally determined protein structures.

We don’t even know if this is like body plans (four legs for mammals, why not six?) i.e. is this about physical limitations of the folding space (did evolution explore most of the space and hold onto the most useful folds, or are the common set of folds one of those accident-of-history results?).  Then there’s the issue that folding takes place as the protein chain exits the ribosomal tunnel so that’s a whole other constraint on what kinds of folds might be selected. For that matter, why not other genetically determined complex amino acids instead of just the canonical set?

Also, a common evolutionary process in eukaryotes is duplication of protein sequences and shuffling of code blocks which might represent folding domains, which might tend to lock in the existing collection of folds rather than generating novel folds.  That’s not so clear.

This weakness of AlphaFold has some modern practical relevance since non-canonical amino acids and modified proteins are increasingly used medically, and their structures mostly seem to be determined using the direct experimental methods, eg:

https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10296201/

“Non-Canonical Amino Acids as Building Blocks for Peptidomimetics: Structure, Function, and Applications” (2023)

The strict Medicaid work rules that the White House released
    this week are likely to put ongoing treatments in jeopardy.

    States must put the work requirements into effect by January 1.

    States must "make the changes, test the changes to make sure 
    they're not going to break the system, and then go live," 

    "It takes states literally months — usually years — to make the
    types of changes to their systems that they needed to make for 
    this new rule,"

    The nearly 400-page interim final rule released Monday makes
    that process even harder. 
    
    [During the previous] months, federal officials met with states
    informally and states understood that people with conditions
    where continuous health insurance coverage was really important
    would be exempt.

    "What the [new] rule says, as published, is that that's actually
    not enough,"

    "The condition or the disease needs to be actively interfering 
    with your ability to work. So people with early stage cancer who
    are in radiation treatment but still have the capacity to work, 
    or people who have HIV but can still technically work, are not
    exempted from the work requirement."

    Dr Oz pitched this as "a path to prosperity"

Evolution discovered a bunch of structural patterns at different layers (fragments, folds..) that are energetically favorable, versatile, easily foldable, robust to mutations and then kept reusing them. As a result it sampled more and more in these parts of the space. That's why the fold space is uneven.

Are there any folds and patterns that evolution evolution has not discovered that are also useful? I think Baker Group created a bunch of new folds. I'm not sure if they are as useful as the one discovered by Evolution. After all, Evolution had more compute power than us.

This blog post is totally awesome!
Very clear and explaining in simple and visual terms like I have rarely seen before.

Really the sweet spot between a too technical deep dive that requires a strong background to read, and the opposite of articles that are really the basic with almost no valuable technical content.

Proteins are truly amazing.  I've studied them for decades and they still manage to surprise; for example, i worked with protein structural prediction for decades and assumed that structure was necessary for function, but some proteins remain mostly unfolded and still carry out complex mechanistic tasks.

No real clue what this stuff is about, way over my head, but kudos on an article where it's all there on the page instead of needing scripts to pull text and images from different places!

My PhD thesis addressed a similar question. I did a survey of sub-domain sized fragments shared between different protein folds. It turns out that there are plenty, even among folds considered evolutionarily distant.

The galery of generated images looks amazing, it's hard (but often possible) to spot inconsistencies in detailed images.

Exciting!

Nice to see another locally hostable model! It’s going to take me a bit longer to add this model to the GenAI Showdown benchmark [1], since I’ll need to add a bit of customization so it produces highly optimized JSON-structured prompts.

It might be worth noting that fal.ai [2] (a fairly popular router in the generative AI space) doesn’t really mention or emphasize the JSON-structured prompt format, and seems to suggest it works just as well with natural language. It might be worth reaching out to them, at least to clarify this point and make things a bit clearer.

[1] - https://genai-showdown.specr.net

[2] - https://fal.ai/ideogram-4

The fact that I saw this on X first is concerning, greatjob btw

This is so awesome

That is cool!

Random aside: there’s a restaurant in San Diego on the SAN flight path with a split flap display over the bar. Every time a flight passes over it updates to show flight number and departure airport. It’s quite neat.

> We first introduce an agentic physical scene understanding technique that constructs a scene-tree representation capturing object physical states and inter-object relationships from a gravity-support perspective, providing a structural prior for reconstruction.

What an obnoxiously convoluted way of saying "We know that rooms have floor, walls, and ceiling, so we identify whether an object should be on the floor, wall, or ceiling." This could easily be a post-processing step on any other algorithm.

Will it work on Apple silicon machines? Maybe in the Draw Things application? Or is it all command line

Interested in how this generalizes outside of Isaac Gym/PhysX, because the devil is in the floats.

For a stable simulation you want your initial conditions to be stable, that's what this model optimizes for. But stability tends to be highly dependent on your settings, timestep, etc. Mostly because physics engines are designed for speed, not perfect accuracy.

I've only tackled this problem with shitty low-stakes (AI generated games) but I found heuristic post-optimization to be "good enough" -- essentially just stabilizing the simulation manually during scene bake. And predictably I had to rejigger the v-hacd and constants when I switched physics engines.

So the real usefulness of something like this is how well it generalizes to the heterogeneous simulation ecosystem, but the paper doesn't seem to cover that.

[dead]

I find this study quite suspect. I'd have to dive deeper but there's definitely significant alarm bells that should be going off for anyone reading.

Figure 2 (page 6) screams problems. There's only 16 professors (3k comparisons each?!?!) and the professors are all over the place. That's very high variance, suggesting the study has no meaningful statistical power. Poor instructor 16 can't catch a break lol

There's also really clear bias given that the main results only feature Google models. Other models show up elsewhere, why not there?

I'm no lawyer, but I'm a pretty competent statistician and can confidently say this paper has a smell to it. I can't call it bullshit, but there are red flags all over

Oof that looks like a loud place to live :O  Happy to see it inspiring a project tho take care

I bought several 3b+ Raspberries a really long time ago and this seems like the perfect simple&breathtaking project for such ancient hardware. Who needs a fourth PiHole on their local network?!

"Fortunately" I live directly beneath CHA's main landingstrip, so lots of regular data available. Fortunately, I am not in the main takeoff path because that would be much worse.

Maybe this would be a better link: https://skylightceiling.com/

or the repo https://github.com/cpaczek/skylight

(To be clear, the "I" in the title is not me, the submitter - it's the title of the Reddit post).

Their repo linked by someone in the comments: https://github.com/cpaczek/skylight

Not too many things make my jaw literally drop, but this did.  This is magnificent!

It's a planeatarium

I'm sensing "The Conversation" levels of paranoia and it is beautiful.

Would have loved a post on working out the geometry of the projection, especially if it accounted for transitions of ceiling to wall. That would be fun.

The surface through which one is projecting is a flat rectangle. Had it been a hemispherical dome one wouldn't have had to do anything special for the transitions.

Wow so cool! I had daydreamed about doing something similar with e-ink display on my wall so I could see details about whatever plane I'm hearing..  but this blows that out of the water.

I expect to have trouble falling asleep just vicariously relating to the noise level there. Awesome project though.

The repo subtitle is `Project the aircraft passing overhead onto your ceiling, in real time — an X-ray through the roof.`

The demo video starts outside pointing at a cloudy sky with an airplane passing overhead. My mind, seeded with the word "x-ray", thought the outside shot was the video projection on his ceiling. I thought his rain gutters were crown molding, and when the camera man runs inside, I thought he was running outside to show the real life airplane.

The actual projection is neat, but how fun would it be to have an x-ray projection of the night sky.

Dead internet theory gaining more credibility with every passing day.

[flagged]

I'm looking forward to the fraud lawsuites for ad companies

OP: please add [2012] to the title

Would love to see it go further back and some meaningful metric of how much is web scrapers vs bots.

In this graph, "api request" traffic looks like to be conflated to be "bot".

CF posts metrics which reinforces their business... shocking

Not shocking if CF is now trying really hard to keep me out of the internet

Can bot traffic cause ad revenue to go up by any chance? Or false clicks that cost advertisers?

On the Traffic page it is showing Bots more than Human,

but on the Bot page it's the opposite: 65.9% Human vs 34.1% Bot

https://radar.cloudflare.com/bots?dateRange=7d

?

Given how most of the internet is on mobile, I wonder how much that would skew this.

Only for HTML content. Total traffic would have been surprising.

Any thoughts on why ~30% of HTTP request are in US?  I know we had first mover advantage for awhile but I'd expect this to have been diluted by larger populations by now. It doesn't appear to be AI/bot driven either.

If they were truly this accurate at identifying sources of bot traffic, you'd think they'd be better at blocking them without inconveniencing the rest of us.

Saw this play out firsthand this week. Launched a small 
developer tool and within 48 hours had traffic from 38 
countries — Netherlands and Singapore near the top, 
which matches the bot-heavy regions in this data.

The SSL cert observation in another comment here is 
accurate too. The second a domain goes live it gets 
discovered.

Dead internet theory

“First time”

The graph seems like it only goes back to April 27 and on that day it was 57% bot…

Bot traffic

  Share of HTTP requests
  
  Ranking   Location   Percentage
  1.        Gibraltar    92.0%
  2.        Iran         76.9%
  3.        Singapore    76.4%
  4.        Ireland      72.9%
  5.        Netherlands  68.8%

Lol, what is happening?

One funny thing I've discovered as a result of certificate transparency logs is that the second your host gets given an SSL cert, you are immediately blasted with ai crawlers.

I put a project online - it was online for a month, and the second I added an SSL cert it went from 0 traffic to 1000 requests/min.

This feels like a vibe-coded dashboard that someone made just because they could and with AI it is much cheaper/quicker to create. But they didn't actually put too much thought into how it would/could actually be used. This doesn't really provide much value over "well that's kind of interesting to know". There aren't really actionable points that one can take from looking at these charts.

Some of my opinion above is formed from my own experience making similar charts just because I wonder what something would look like graphed out :)

It's a silly metric.  There could be only one master bot that pings every known endpoint multiple times a second, and that would probably surpass all human activity, too.  It doesn't really tell us much about intention or the ability to masquerade as humans.

Where I would start to worry is if there's evidence that bot access patterns are starting to become harder to distinguish from human access patterns, which would suggest that they are, in fact, mimicking or masquerading as humans.  I don't care how many search bots are indexing web content, but I do worry about how many social bots are attempting to manipulate or mislead people.

Given how many rounds of captchas I have to fight through, I'm not sure if these numbers are accurate.

> Percentage of HTTP requests classified as bot (automated) or human. Filtered to HTML responses, representing web page traffic.

(Emphasis mine)

I realize that this is likely an inherent limitation, but there is a difference between "bot vs human traffic" and "traffic that CF thinks is bot/human". Every time CF blocks me, I assume it claims I'm a bot in this chart.

Automated systems that don’t sleep and are often programmed to aggressively scrape and are limited only by compute capacity outstripped humanity? I am not surprised by this at all.

For the first time? No way. People were saying this 5, 10, 15+ years ago.

According to the Thales Bad Bot Report, in 2025 >53% of traffic came from bots. 2024 was 50 - 50, and in 2013, it was measured at 43%.

AI-driven* bot activity has increased more than tenfold however in the past 12 months so I'm confident this will grow to a very solid majority.

I was tracking this as part of an older job and this has been the case for some years now - started around the Covid time with all the scalping bots etc and has just been building up.

This sorta mirrors the early-mid 2010's when people[1] were worried about how much of the internet was streaming traffic.

[1] Mostly ISP's annoyed at not being able to monetize it and folks trying to sell monetization solutions to them - https://www.sandvine.com/hubfs/Sandvine_Redesign_2019/Downlo...

[flagged]

The potential threats section reads like panic, rather than a critique of AI. I can see where #2 has some legs, if I thought tradition was sacrosanct.

1. AI proofs might be incorrect and difficult to demonstrate why. This implies they are not like human proofs in these qualities.

2. AI proofs are difficult to attribute correctly, because they don't follow established traditions. Nothing to do with the math, but ok.

3. Mathematicians without AI (for political or practical reasons) will not necessarily be able to participate in AI-assisted research. This history of Mathematics is littered with people having uneven access.

4. People/orgs are publishing that AI found things are fact before they are properly evaluated. Same issue.

5. All these things are bad, because AI might muddy the field with lots of unknowns.

Is there a connection to Leiden, NL?

[dead]

1. first they ignore you <<<< GPT-4 can barely add too numbers without making a mistake

2. then they laugh at you <<<< the International Math Olympiad is basically just high school math

3. then they fight you <<<< this declaration

4. then you win

In a word, they're cooked

Non-commercial license, you should not call that "open-weight". Words have meaning.

And people are having a laugh at how censored the model is.

https://old.reddit.com/r/StableDiffusion/comments/1tvtu2u/id...

https://old.reddit.com/r/StableDiffusion/comments/1tvxhzv/id...

Let's assume that there is an advantage to using llms. E.g. the use of an llm lends a competitive advantage in a given field.

There is no moral or ethical obligation to disclose tool use. The disclosure in of itself presents an asymmetric disadvantage to the disclosee. Especially in this charged environment where large swathes of people are champing at the bit to discredit or diminish any effort that leverages these tools.

This system incentivizes people to hide tool use to gain a competitive advantage.

This moralistic grandstanding will be seen as a reactionary movement of people trying to cope with transformative technology.

Lie about tool use, don't admit it. Use it as you see fit and rely on your taste, expertise and best judgement.

1. 'incentives' hmm

"Now, here, you see, it takes all the running you can do, to keep in the same place."

> Technologies that draw extensively on the published mathematical commons undermine the traditional system of attribution.

This just feels like something that has always been true. Defending attribution in this way feels more like a panicked gatekeeping rather than something valuable and principled. I’m a bit disappointed to see people like Terence Tao endorse this.

So, no one's buying our textbooks anymore, it's getting costly to do our work, stop over claiming results for your marketing and insulting our work? I would have stuck with that.

Everything else seems to be organizational or standard politics. I would have avoided the political sections as it just sets those signatories up for getting into those fights, having not realized what they cosigned.

The issue of attribution is a hard problem that has festered for a while, that has mostly been obscured by the inability to discern an authors entire body of ingested information. I would be careful as, the proposed opt-out restrictions will be eventually imposed on people, which sorta blows up the whole math enterprise of universities/etc. Ie. the proposed leads to a book author revoking a person's ability to reference their arguments in a mathematic paper for money, spite, etc.

> Recommendations for policymakers in government and elsewhere

  > 2. Don’t believe the hype
  > 3. Regulate the artificial intelligence industry

So they are recommendations. At global level.

Interesting document. Especially interesting compared to the Bourbaki movement from a century ago, which was much more focused on universality and correctness, and much less focused on process and attribution (in fact, demanded anonymity).

(Leiden being the town in the Netherlands where Leiden University is.)

> Terence Tao - Professor, University of California, Los Angeles

>  This has been the result of months of community input about the fundamental values and goals of the mathematical community. In retrospect, these were questions we should have been systematically discussing years ago, but in any event the exercise was extremely valuable, and the end result is excellent. I wholeheartedly endorse the statements and recommendations in this declaration.

Most of the arguments here feel like gate keeping and resistance to change. I didn't see any arguments that were directly about advancing the state of knowledge of math.

“Current automated techniques can produce plausible but unreliable (or even incorrect) arguments which are difficult to distinguish from correct mathematical proofs.”

That seems like a problem for mathematics with or without AI.

Isn’t this a problem with human proofs as well?

“Many current models are also built on data obtained by systematically exploiting licenses and access arrangements that were not made with artificial intelligence in mind, or indeed by simply violating copyright protections”

Copyright? The copyright arguments have been hard to make in domains where copyright is much stronger, mathematical knowledge isn’t even subject to copyright.

“Technologies which affect the way in which mathematics is practiced may disturb the current system of incentives”

Resistance to change again.

“Proper evaluation is endangered if results are communicated through informal channels”

Gatekeeping again.

Not quite related, but I figure the audience might have some overlap: what is going on with Keystone?

[dead]

It's worth remembering Thurston's essay on mathoverflow (https://mathoverflow.net/questions/43690/whats-a-mathematici...):

"The product of mathematics is clarity and understanding. Not theorems, by themselves. Is there, for example any real reason that even such famous results as Fermat's Last Theorem, or the Poincaré conjecture, really matter? Their real importance is not in their specific statements, but their role in challenging our understanding, presenting challenges that led to mathematical developments that increased our understanding."

Accelerationists may argue that the eroding of proper attribution and proof verification by humans is a meaningless short term struggle of a dying field.

Mathematics seems to be entering an era where human + machine maximizes performance, much like chess in the 1990s. However, imagine a future where even talented mathematicians are nothing but noise in the machine (as is the case in chess now). A future where AI generates and verifies proofs without humans in the loop. Where the mathematics may be beyond human comprehension.

In that future, does it matter that early career mathematicians are inhibited by these developments? Perhaps not. Programming faces the same issue. As AI crawls up the competence ladder, does it matter that fewer people have opportunities to develop the skillset of a senior engineer? Perhaps not.

Capstone's coverage of ARM, RISC-V, and other architectures makes it strong for reverse engineering. When used with its sibling project Keystone, switching from disassembly to assembly across platforms becomes straightforward for researchers.

As one who helped improved Capstone and its even more wonderful partner, Unicorn, I actually found an exploit in QEMU using Capstone/Unicorn.

Unicorn is a nearly-true software-based CPU emulator for ARM, AArch64, M68K, Mips, Sparc, PowerPC, RiscV, S390x, TriCore, X86 CPU (and memory) architecture.

This pair-up is arguably the best set of software tools out there.

QEMU? No worry, that's way back in QEMU v1.4 days (emulation of Intel IMUL lb/DWORD OPC_IMUL_GvEvlb opcode getting tripped up by XOR opcode doing self-modified operand and TLB cache didn't flush, resulting in a double XOR; ROT13x2 anyone?)

Fabrice fixed it then and is still blazing at QEMU 10.0 now. Ain't he awesome?

Yeah, I actually ran portion of TLB of QEMU thru unicorn back then.

https://github.com/unicorn-engine/unicorn/issues/364

This is why I read HN.

I mean, cool, but I’d rather not?

[dead]

I think you can definitely improve the throughput/iops by using BAR vs treating it like a file store/mount through cuda which adds a lot of overhead.

Q: Why?
A: Why not?

Nvme ssd weights much less than GPU, and it matters for a laptop.

[dead]

use your car for an anchor on a big boat!

sidenote: it is possible to use Vulkan to map GPU memory to CPU space and even map it back to CUDA: https://x.com/steeve/status/2055042304344231978?s=20

I have long wished it was possible to do this. What a great bit of code. Thanks.

[dead]

And now, I want HDMI as direct connection hight speed network socket.

[dead]

RAM disks have always fascinated me. In a different timeline every PC has a 100gb of RAM and 50TB HDDs are the norm.

Building a swap device at user level used to be one of those classic unsolvable problems, because what if your daemon needs to swap in a page in order to swap in a page? Or at least it was discussed at a reason why microkernels will never work. I’m not sure what the solution is here.

I've implemented the same idea with OpenCL: https://github.com/theblazehen/vramblk

There is originally https://github.com/Overv/vramfs however that has the overhead of a FUSE filesystem + loop device when using as a swap device.

The performance is rather lackluster however, it's far from a miracle "now you effectively have more ram for a 90% performance drop" - it definitely feels like traditional swapping

Why does my Apple Sillicon Mac with 32gb of RAM use (or even create?!) a swapfile, when 20gb is still unused/"free"?

Why can I not just enter a simple command to entirely-disable swapfile, like with Linux's:

>>>>swapoff -a

Seems kind of silly, unless the point is intentionally to wear-down the SSD's lifespan.

Having a GUI swapfile-disable system preference would be awesome. It would also be awesome if Apple finally abandoned this system settings/layout "phase" – it's still word-salad (compared to decades of preference panes).

#Apple #Feedback #swapfile

You want to waste VRAM, in this economy?

For windows I saw something similar to this years ago. An experimental proof of concept driver that allows the creation of a ram drive from vram for NVIDIA cards. Sequential is fast as you'd expect, random has lots of room for improvement.

>GpuRamDrive

>Create a virtual drive backed by GPU RAM.

https://github.com/prsyahmi/GpuRamDrive

Fork with AMD support:

https://github.com/brzz/GpuRamDrive/

It seems obvious to me that this should be a built in functionality of the kernel.

The kernels job is to manage resources - and GPU ram is one such resource, and it can be used for many of the same uses as regular ram.

> Built for laptops with soldered memory and no upgrade path. If you have an RTX card sitting there with 8GB of VRAM and you're getting swapped to SSD, this puts that VRAM to work.

Well, that does at least answer my immediate question about why I would ever swap from expensive RAM to really expensive RAM:) Feels niche, but when you want it it's a good idea.

Remember how 16GBs used to be an enterprise level database mainframe?

Well, GPUs also have stupid amounts of compute on them. I have to imagine that there is some kind of database format that's useful with GPU compute attached.

Since the data is already in VRAM, the GPU can sort, join, or otherwise manipulate data as needed.

Nice

I mean, you prompted something useful out of an AI, good job. But then use that to ask for donation? Feels weird, man.

[dead]

I'm more interested in the opposite.  Nvidia linux drivers crash when you try to address more VRAM than you have.  It'd be nice if they didn't.

Nice, I might try using this as I'm currently on 16 GB of RAM / 11 GB VRAM and feel like the VRAM is usually idle except for when I game or try a local LLM.

It would be nice to have dynamic scaling or even just auto-shutoff on VRAM pressure if I forget I have this enabled and then fire up a game or LLM.

Does anyone these days really use swap for anything than S4 suspend ?

Nice idea, but I'm sure a ton of things can go wrong with it.
It needs extensive edge case handling in order to be usable widely.

oooh. i have an original. it doesn't have the 'Collector's Edition' etching. Does that make it a fake?

I seriously looked at this as a way to improve the RAM situation in a QNAP 2U unit that I was having trouble sourcing RAM for. It's somewhat annoying that legit memory-over-PCIe is gated on PCIe5 and chipset support.

In the end I just had to bite the bullet and take a gamble on finding ECC DDR4 RAM that would work with the ancient AMD chipset...

This particular implementation seems to be running over too many layers to be particularly performant. Why not a custom block driver instead?

I remember this being a thing done a while back using linux's MTD/phram drivers - https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Swap_on_video_RAM - not sure if that's still relevant though as I don't know how it'll interact with DRM and how it handles reserving some of the vram - the suggested limit using xorg.conf is probably pretty obsolete now.

That page also has a fuse filesystem implementation on top of opencl - https://github.com/Overv/vramfs - which may be more compatible.

Finally a use for the expensive ram when it's not needed in workloads!

Now if it could be dynamically used and vacated on other GPU workloads?

[flagged]

No software benchmarks? BAR for RAM is cool but I want to see how much it _actually_ beats pcie nvme

What about backpressure, how does it handle requirements for VRAM allocation when VRAM is used for swap space?

With X11 it's not that bad (buffers are pre-allocated), but with Wayland allocations are a lot more dynamic, so running low on VRAM can easily crash the whole desktop. I just had a few of such crashes with Hyprland+llama-server+KVM switching between computers without freeing VRAM.

It's an "official licencee" so it's not actually HP manufacturing it. Still, I'd love to get one if it feels like the original.

>Sequential throughput: ~1.3 GB/s

sounds VERY low, also, wouldn't random read/write speed be MUCH more relevant here?

Similar but using OpenCL APIs, so it works on AMD (for some definition of "works" since their drivers are quite buggy): https://libguestfs.org/nbdkit-vram-plugin.1.html

Nice idea, but something has gone very wrong here:

>Sequential throughput: ~1.3 GB/s

[on a RTX 3070 Laptop]

This RTX 3070 chip is on PCIe 4.0 x16 which should give 64GB/s. The 8GB of GDDR6 is 448GB/s.

Swapping to an NVMe drive would be twice as fast, but with higher latency.

[flagged]

Given my dev machine has 32GB of RAM and 32GB of VRAM that sits mostly idle when I'm not running AI models, this is not that bad of an idea.

This is cool, but I am a HP-42S forever person

My 50-year-old HP-21 with red LED display still works. I'm very fond of it. RPN forever!

Maybe for $49 (maximum), I would buy this, but $116.96 (on sale; $129.99 if not) is too much. There is no RAM in this thing; why so expensive?!

Give me a 48 and we'll talk.

Whoa! My parents had one from back in the day. I think one of their companies gave them out.

I still remember the way the buttons made a nice tactile thunk as you pushed them.

I used a 33C in HS and college. Finally in med school during my diversion into the lab, something happened to the little bubble display. And had to upgrade to an 11C.

The beauty of an RPN calculator was that nobody asked to borrow it.

It's always interesting that they use ARM chips to emulate the original firmware.

I wish they would re-release the HP50-g, I had one somewhere but it got lost and I _loved_ that thing!

HP 20S or GTFO

117 USD if ordered before July 31.

Not coded in Rust? No AI?? No age verification??!

I found an HP-12c at Savers for like $2 about 2 years ago!  It's a "financial calculator" and I don't really know how to use it :-)

With this and Casio's S100X-JC1-U is there some kind of retro calculator fever?

I might even buy this in spite of the horrible "Collector's Edition" marking (who designs these things? this font is terrible), but somebody would need to try the keys and tell us if they cheaped out on the keyboard again.

$116.96 USD

If you truly enjoy collecting HP calculators, watches, computers, ok.

Else

There's a sucker born every minute.

Treated myself to a SwissMicros DM16C [1] while waiting for HP to re-relase the original.

[1] https://www.swissmicros.com/product/dm16c

What's going on with tech companies now releasing "limited editions" or "limited runs" of a calculator? I find that a hit ridiculous. Not long ago there was a post on a japanese made Casio laccquered calculator that costs a fortune. Have people started to collect calculators?

It still blows me away that the original HP 15/16 series has reports of a single set of silver oxide batteries lasting over a decade without having to be replaced.

Probably runs in an emulator on a modern MCU and still has more performance than the original.

If this uses similar parts as the HP-15C Collector’s Edition in 2023 (which seems likely), then be advised that it doesn’t match the quality of the original in terms of display, key feel, and key labeling (colors). The back side of the 15C CE is also pretty ugly in my opinion [0] compared to the original [1].

[0]  https://commerce.hpcalc.org/images/15c-ce-back-medium.jpg

[1] https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/47/HP-15C_C...

I would love a programmers' calculator but I really hate RPN. I wish they would make one without it. Back in the day they did it for efficiency. But that's no longer an issue these days.

I do still have a mint HP48GX but never use it for the same reason. The successor the 49 had normal math as an option but it was not as iconic.

I need to unload my bomar mx100 calculator.

But my 11c is still perfect.

For me, custom calculator capabilities is one of The top 5 reasons to carry a mobile computing device in my pocket.

I have too many calculator apps I hardly use, but nevertheless .. love to collect.

I still have my 16C, and it still works perfectly. I got it in a swap for a 15C and 11C, so I got the reissue 15C when it came out, and it's not up to the quality of the original.

HP generously gave me a 16C at the end of an internship. It was a weird beast! Amazing a simulating different types of integer arithmetic. Not at all a replacement for the 11C, 12C, or 15C.

This is an HP licensee, not HP itself.

Still nice to see, though the SwissMicros calculators are also very good and will be tough to compete with.

HP calculators were an important part of my formative years. I have a 12C, 15C, and 16C (all original models). I also have an HP-35 (red LED digits) within reach right now. That was the calculator I used for high school exams, because we weren't allowed "programmable" calculators so I had to go a bit retro for the time.

The 16C was an interesting model. It had a lot of potential capability with the different word sizes and bitwise operations, but I think it fell short in practice because the operations it could do just weren't that useful.

My favourite model is the 15C, it got me through four years of math, physics, and computer science university classes. The integration and matrix functions were super useful because it was hard to do some of that stuff in your head.

I have one of the originals. It's useful if you do low-level programming a lot, and in a pinch you can also use it as a standard calculator. The biggest limitation is that the screen can only show 8 digits. In binary mode, this can be awkward if you're working with variables that are more than 8 bits. The calculator has functionality for scrolling around the number that's being displayed to try to work around this, but it's still a little annoying compared to newer calculator designs that can show more digits at once.

I already own the SwissMicros DM41X, DM42, DM15L, and DM16L.  Excellent quality devices, and built like absolute tanks!  Picking up any of them will leave you astonished, a DM41X (or DM42) with its anodized metal back plate feels like it weighs at least 2x a TI-89 Titanium.  I have as many of the HP-41C module files as I could find on MoHPC and other sites stored in my DM41X.  They are all very high quality devices, I can't recommend them enough!

This must be the original "mac vs Windows" divide: I could never get my head around HP calculators. TI all the way. SR-52, TI-59/58. Sinclair if budget was tight. That said, I do have an HP-85C...

I did never use a 16C, but I have a 42 at home and use it very often. It goes so far, that I also have the 42 app on my phone as a replacement for the default calculator app. I am using RPN, and I think I'm the only one in my age category that does (at least none of my friends who studied ever heard of RPN) - it's such a superior way to calculate. I usually have problems to work with a "regular" calculator due to being used to it "4, enter, 5, times" instead of "4 times 5".

If this would be a 42, I would definetely buy it. My 42 is a gift from my father and time did not only good to it.

/edit switched UPN to RPN, as I got the translation wrong

I was never able to get into RPN, but I always heard great things about these.

Absolutely love HP calculators. Almost fourty years ago, my HP28s introduced me into programming in RPL, a stack based Forth like language combined with elements from Scheme (Lisp), and symbolic calculation. It was a language that was way ahead of its time, nothing I had seen in Pascal or C. Only a few years later in Mathematica. From there I learned Scheme, and was introduced to the book SICP. All of this had a lasting effect on how I program and think.

HP started my journey so to speak :)

I also had one of those mentioned in the article, just for nostalgia. Rock solid, RPN based, lovely product. The kind of product companies do not build anymore (products that will last you a lifetime)

I never thought the HP of today would do this. 20+ years ago, I was first enamored by a 16C a much older coworker owned. Sometime after that, I bought one on eBay for around $100 (IIRC). Inflation adjusted, this reissue is a deal!

I have the clones from swiss micros.

https://www.swissmicros.com/product/dm16c

They are more portable and really good.

I had the Hp15c (and still have) but always deeply longed for the hp28s, which was the first to implement a lisp-like programming language in a calculator. Had I bought that one, who knows how different my computing life would have been…

I got mine from my father for high school graduation. It is one of my most prized personal posessions.

An HP 48S was my constant companion during engineering school and RPN was a lovely introduction to elegant expression-scaling.

The specific ergonomic feel of those buttons remains unrivaled.

Gosh I need one so badly. Used ones are up to about 500USD.

Pity the international shop is down

[flagged]

[flagged]

I'm a lifelong fan of HP calculators. I have a 15c in front of me right now that I've had since the mid-ish 80s. Still works perfectly.

But the 15c 'Collector's Edition' had some issues, and I wonder about the build quality and reliability of this new one, too. Plus: my guess is you can get an original working 16c on eBay for less than this is going to cost.

Honestly, it pains me to say it but I'd recommend a SwissMicros DM16L instead: https://www.swissmicros.com/product/dm16l

I have an original HP11C within reach. Still works. Had to replace the batteries this year, after 20 years.

If you replace the batteries, get the good Panasonic silver cells from Newark, not "compatible" alkaline cells. The silver cells were intact after two decades.

I would get one of these in a hot minute except that my HP-16C that I got sometime in the '80's is still going strong! I rarely use it anymore but a couple of years back I was working on an app that involved bit-twiddling and the 16C fired right up and was immediately helpful.

That cookie popup just makes me wanna leave and never come back

Would be cool to see this become a fully viable TrackIR alternative.

[flagged]

They are doing this also for the science version, the 15C.

I bought a 15C in the 1980s, and have enjoyed it ever since.  It is like a rock.  Despite being treated roughly over the years, nothing is wrong with it apart from some dents in the metal parts and my name, scratched on the back. I suppose I've replaced the batteries a couple of times, but that's it.  This thing just refuses to die.

The main thing is that the keys still work like on day 1.  And I've never seen a calculator with keys like this, with such feedback that you never need to worry about double-presses or missed-presses.

I just love the thing.  If it died, I'd buy one of these new versions in a flash.  But I think it will outlast me!

It's robot from 1990 and no, there is no video of the robot actually walking.

[flagged]

Cool... their biggest failure pushed them to find what they are actually good at.

[dead]

Seriously?

- Marketing material? check

- Bloated to the extreme? check

- "Get a free trial" at the end? check

- Entirely LLM generated? check

Who is the audience for this? I was a big fan of HP calculators at the time. Guilty of RPN snobbery and in posession of the passed by nth generation photocopy 'synthetic programming' document. I still have my 41CV even though it has not been turned on in 20 years.

But a fake lookalike 'collectors edition' of a device that can have only nostalgic sentimental value? Why does this exist? Who falls for this?

[flagged]

[flagged]

A guy named Walker developing legged-robot software is even more on the nose than a guy named Karpathy developing autonomous-vehicle software.

[flagged]

[flagged]

I opened the article expecting it was going to be about clone robotics
https://youtu.be/5mSE6Tkhy4g?si=tDp0DUI9OOXAwsX2

...why would webcam head tracking need a new standalone vibecoded project? I thought there are plenty of those already.

How descripting is the caption that you obtain?

So you include colour, shapes, etc?

With media ingestion this is called "eager" processing. Historically for things like pulling thumbnails for images / video and pre-generating common sizes for things. This follows the same pattern and makes all the sense in the world. My only concern is that due to the non deterministic nature of LLMs new models will reveal new information about your data.

For example you might identify a car in an image but the context is the car running a red light. A new model might pick that up while an old one doesn't. These context adjustments might sometimes require you to rerun your LLM processing or potentially have a one to many relationship for multiple runs so you can take the best of or combine results.

Actual usage will also reveal most commonly used assets and you can target the ones that are most trafficked and save a ton on processing that way.

I would love to see this with nitinol wire muscles.

Wonder if I could use that to swipe through virtual desktops?

why not a multimodal embedding model?

That's smart. Just the other day, I was thinking about how I would solve images/graphs/rich PDF stuff in a RAG system. Now I know more, thanks!

when your head move, and with it your eyes, you move what's in front of them to your perspective inside the simulation, just as VR works

but in this case it is detrimental because the screen is fixed, the natural behavior would be not to move it

or at least do very little with it like a parallax

the current demo would cause nausea after a moment

[dead]

> we don't send images to the model at query time. We describe each image once, at indexing time, with a cheap vision model, store the descriptions as text, and retrieve them alongside ordinary text chunks

This is what I've been doing in my Obsidian infodump for a while. If I know that an image is important, I generate a text description (Mermaid if possible, English if not) and paste it after the image in a block. This lets agents see the image if they don't really see it. Though my process is manual, the improvements in outcomes for agents that rely on text search/retrieval is very real and is worth it.

This is what non-commercial tech looked like back before the gold rush and vulture capital.  Geeks and nerds in basements doing weird stuff that would be laughed at by most people on the street.  Most STEM professions were middle class, not lottery tickets.

Makes perfect sense, in nature you have a lot of both practical and odd functionality out of filling "bags" with air or liquid.

This is a pretty cool approach. If they can improve the visual presentation it can also look pretty awesome. Gives me some inspiration for drawing scifi designs too.

[flagged]

"This is what makes the load-bearing case work,"

Man I hate that AI writing tic. I appreciate the instincts for sharing the workflow. It's still very difficult to get AI to put an info dense description together though, we tend to get long and vague.

Well I don't know if this one has been getting by others too but I have been doing this since 2 years ago and it works really well. Except the fact that for the documents I had to chunk containing these images I had to chase the authors(multiple of them) to update the relevant captions for their images. 
It is cost efficient than multi-modal. Lesser ingestion time altogether. Only part is that if the retrieval query is a question which can be answered only after looking at the image, then this architecture would need some little modification.

Its an ad for their product. There is nothing special about this approach and probably done the same way by everyone else.

We have it in our open-source framework, in case anyone wants to deploy it:

https://github.com/Qbix/AI/blob/6753f6e453908682401f49760002...

https://github.com/Qbix/AI/blob/main/config/observations.jso...

wrote it up here a few months ago: https://community.safebots.ai/t/building-cultural-infrastruc...

It would be nice to know the limits of this tech, like how does it tolerate head gears and garments like headphones or hoodies, beanies and glasses, long hard, different skin colour and facial features or even background contrast.

[dead]

Hmm, from the title i expected a tool to calibrate FOV angle to monitor size/distance

Wouldn't it be better to use head tracking to get the position of the head relative to the monitor, so the monitor behaves like a window? Like in Johnny Lee's classic Wii demo [1].

The way it currently works (rotating the view upon head rotation) doesn't really make sense because a monitor is not a head mounted display.

1: https://youtube.com/watch?v=Jd3-eiid-Uw

It would be cool to use something like this or openfov to control OBS to automatically switch between different cameras/scenes when you turn your head. Either multiple cameras, or switching between screenshare/camera if you look directly into the camera.

It looks like this is just for Microsoft's Windows. I used to use TrackIR when I gamed on that. I missed that functionality when I moved to game on Linux. That is, until LookPilot (https://lookpilot.app/, it's on Steam, too) arrived. Webcam tracking is good because you don't need to wear a headset, but not so good in a dark room.

You can do some related tricks to this in browsers too: https://github.com/atomirex/fishtank-js (example https://atomirex.github.io/fishtank-js/dist/index.html )

There is a greatly cleaner version of the same idea in the React Fiber libraries these days as well.

Also check out the SmoothTrack mobile app. Same use case but the compute is done on a phone instead of the gaming machine. Head position data can be sent over local network or USB.

What are the differences between OpenTrack and this ?

"We can't promise to get everything fixed in time for 6.8, but we can promise to listen and be aware. "

What is with KDE and releasing broken software? What's the rush to release when there are known issues?

dumb question, with LLMs being so prolific now, why is this sort of a thing.. a thing? Why not us an agent to maintain code people use, but humans don't have time to keep up with? or at least, are agents being used in FOSS software widely for such ends, at least to reduce the burden and cheapen the cost of delivering quality FOSS experience?

RIP Linux Desktop

Good old David - he loves systemd. No wonder he does not like X11.

Oldschool KDE devs were better. Today's generation of David or Nate, are just killing KDE off. But no worries, on their blog they'll continue how everything is great. It is so great that they need a donation-widget to keep on pestering people to donate. So now you can pay for them ruining the legacy here.

I gave OpenPOV a try with FS 2024, and found it really disorienting. It was not useful at all. I went to a Meta Quest 3 and that actually made me feel like I was inside an aircraft. At on point I tried to lean on a bulkhead. Oops.

Great! Now fix screenshot

But doesn't it make you look away from the monitor? Unless you have this 45 inch curved monitor really close to your face?

My concern is that KRdp still doesn’t feel ready to replace the mature X11 remote desktop options. In VM/headless setups, the X11 stack is ugly but predictable, you can run Xvfb, VNC/Selkies/xrdp & control resolution pretty easily.

KRdp on Plasma/Wayland is still much more fragile. It depends on a logged-in Plasma session, has rough edges around unattended access, session startup, reconnection, display sizing, authentication/cert handling, and general automation. Those are exactly the things cloud desktops and disposable VM images need to be boringly reliable.

I’m not against deprecating X11 long term, but deprecating it before KRdp is a solid replacement leaves server/VM/remote-desktop users in a bad spot, hopefully now the team can focus solely on Wayland, KRdp will receive some much needed love.

I can't be the only long time Linux use who still has no real idea what X11 or Wayland are. Except that sometimes software won't work properly with one or the other and I need to paste some arcane command to fix it.

[dead]

until the next one

So long KDE. Xlibre for life.

Cool to see this, it's a cool in-between step for not having additional wraparound screens or a VR headset.

I used to run a similar software[1] for when I was really into playing F1 racing games. However one of the problems I found was the initial disconnect in your head and eye movement that took some getting used to.

For example, if you want to look left to see an upcoming turn, naturally your eyes move before your head, and your head follows after.
With this software enabled, you have to consciously inverse the process where your head moves a direction, but your eyes still remain looking forward at the screen.

It took a some getting used to and resulting in some dizziness afterwards, but was fun.

[1]: https://facetracknoir.sourceforge.net/home/default.htm

Gah I’m switching to TMUX.

Trinity Desktop supports X11. If you liked KDE3.5 you might like Trinity.

Good bye KDE. Good bye Red Hat. We're doin our own thang now.

It seems to me like such a drastic change in the underlying system (removing support of one of two major display platforms) would mandate a major version change.

Complete removal of X11 should be an event to trigger KDE 7.0.

By the way - David refused to publish the source for the
image he showed, aka "nobody uses x11 anymore".

This reminds me of the systemd folks - they also don't 
allow for discussions yet alone cite anything related
to their claims. They just claim. If the earth is flat,
they don't need evidence. Their word must be enough.

It is this image:

http://blog.davidedmundson.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2026/06/...

David claims "internal metrics", but he also does not explain how those metrics were gained, is there bias in how they were gained, which time span and so forth.

I am not saying he is fabricating the graph, though this could be the case too. What I am asking for is to show (ALL of) the data and explain the graph and data. Otherwise this is simple propaganda, with a pre-set goal to cover-my-ass (aka explain why KDE devs try to eradicate all xorg users).

By the way, next step, as you guys may know: systemd-only. Both David and Nate also announced this before. I wonder if there are financial kickbacks.

It's so funny reading about how the problem with Wayland is that you have many, often incomplete, implementations while being old enough to remember the time when X11 was actually popular (and thus had many, often incomplete, implementations).

This is a huge blow to accessibility on linux since KDE is such a large marketshare. There is no support for accessibility for the visually (or otherwise) disabled in KDE Plasma's wayland extensions (and none in core wayland at all). It's frankly shocking to me that they would go ahead with this. Even if one doesn't care about the lives of the disabled KDE is now ruled out of workplaces and institutions in the USA because of the Americans with Disabilities Act. The only wayland compositor that supports accessibility it's GNOME's mutter and that's with it's own newly rolled set of protocols that only GNOME's userspace applications support.

I'd love to be proven wrong about KDE's accessibility support. Hopefully they'll adopt GNOME's acccessibility extensions for wayland but that seems less likely than making their own that work with their compositor's design.

That's great progress!
Now fix screenshoting

While we're on the subject, there's also TrackyMouse: https://trackymouse.js.org/

> Our internal metrics within KDE show that over 95% of users of Plasma 6.6 are on Wayland

Wonder how representative of the real end user population this is?

How can I embed my mpv window in other application now?

The only downside is several of the *BSDs don't have wayland.   Not all the world is linux and sometimes that is a good thing to encourage.

Slight tangent but has anyone moved from AwesomeWM to a Wayland-based tiling WM? Interested to hear what people chose. I tried Sway for a bit and while it's not bad by any means it's a bit too unlike what I'm used to. SomeWM is an attempt at "porting" AwesomeWM to Wayland and looks very promising but not quite there yet (I couldn't get Vicious widgets working and not sure if supporting them is even a goal).

I'm still on AwesomeWM for now because I have no real reason to incur the pain of switching, but still curious to know what path others are taking.

No headless RDP solution is pretty unforgiveable in 2026 - right now I use Nomachine and indeed it requires X11. Why wouldn't Wayland have a solution for this? It is not a niche usecase. It is like, a headline, completely mainstream use-case.

Maybe its better under KDE but on gnome/wayland, VSCode can't even remember its window position and size or even which display it should be on - at least for me.  Reminds of the bad old days of windows 3.1.  I have a shell script to reset it now.

But I have to use wayland because I've got nvidia and the force composition vsync hack is just too slow to game with reliably.

I do like how the wayland usage statistic are based on wayland apps crashing more than x11 apps

Does anyone know if there is any progress on window shading on Wayland? I miss it like crazy.

A huge thank you to the KDE team. Plasma is good (finally) on Wayland for me (AMD graphics, single hi-dpi screen). I finally switched over from GNOME and I am happy with the experience.

in my mind unfortunately this basically destroys KDE's viability as a gaming platform. SO many older games just do not work properly unless run under X11 (hell, some newer ones too). XWayland is good for everyday applications but for games in my experience it too often falls flat.

The main blocker I have for moving is the poor session management. On X11 for decades I've been able to log out of my KDE session and when I log in again, all my Konsole windows re-open with the tabs open in the same folders, Dolphin opens with all the tabs open to the same locations etc.

I think they recently added support at the KWin level for reopening windows to the right desktops etc but as far as each individual apps, it seems to be up to them individually to get this working again. I would have thought that at least for the KDE apps, they could just have a compatibility layer from the X11 session management to make it work but it doesn't seem there yet.

I installed Arch on my old Mac few months ago, alongside Xorg and i3, they were what I was used to before I switched to Mac about 6 years ago. Back then Wayland was a mess, so I never even bothered to check it out this time.

However, few days ago my non-technical girlfriend wanted to use my laptop, I couldn't see her using i3 so I decided to install Plasma, a proper desktop environment. Lo and behold I couldn't launch it. After searching I found out I needed plasma-x11-session as the default plasma install now included just a Wayland session. I found this a bit surprising, so I did further digging and discovered a huge chunk of Linux desktop community have basically migrated to Wayland since the last time I was here. Very surprising I must say.

So I decided to try Wayland again; I installed Sway and was pleasantly surprised. My screen resolution was automatically calibrated, operations seemed to run more smoothly, my laptop's fan kicked in less frequently (don't know why), and I didn't need a compositor package to fix screen tear (bye Picom). But all these weren't the reasons I decided to stick with Wayland. You see, in x11 I've been having a persistent problem: playing videos from certain websites, notably Twitter, introduces noticeable flickers. I tried everything to get rid of this: media drivers, verifying GPU acceleration, calibrating refresh rates, nothing worked.  When I installed Sway I decided to see if this issue got magically fixed, and lo! It was. Wayland has come a long way since I last tried it. Now that I mentioned it, I have just remembered I need to figure out a way to share screens on Google meets, at the moment I seem to be limited to sharing just the Chrome window.

Anyone on the most recent LTS Kernel (6.18) with an older nvidia GPU will not have a good experience on Wayland.  I have two machines with Pascal GPUs and:

- The nvidia binary driver is shit with Wayland

- The nvidia OSS driver does not support Pascal GPUs.

- Nouveau got a bunch of stability improvments in Linux 6.19, without which Wayland crashes roughly weekly.

You can get a stable system either by using the latest kernel+nouveau or:

  MESA_LOADER_DRIVER_OVERRIDE=kms_swrast

but performance is rather abysmal.

> Moving forward with a single code path going through Wayland is going to allow us to bring new performance improvements, memory optimisations [sic], and brand new exciting features throughout Plasma.

I wish they would have listed what some of those features might be.

Sadly, recent GNOME versions introduced a hard dependency on systemd and can no longer be used on systemd-free distros. This is the kind of problem that the anti-systemd people had in mind back then when debates about systemd raged.

I really miss the ability to swap out KWin for a tiling window manager. I'm currently using Krohnkite and it's OK, much better than nothing, but after having used a real tiling window manager the difference is just too jarring. I physically need a desktop which is usable as much as possible both with the mouse and with the keyboard so I have to switch as rarely between the two as possible. Plasma on X11 with a tiling window manger was the perfect combo.

The solution would be either for Plasma to do something like River did [1] and separate compositing from window management, or for Plasma to make it possible to use Plasma widgets in other compositors. As it stands now I either have to make do with Krohnkite or go down the ricing rabbit hole with with River and Quickshell.

[1] https://isaacfreund.com/blog/river-window-management/

Wayland is great and I generally prefer it, but it's worth keeping X around for KDE Plasma I think. Things like remote desktop are nicer on X, X is much easier to use on Android compared to Wayland, etc.

Been using Linux as sole OS for 25 years now. I will stick to X11 no problems, I am sure it will be just fine for my usage. When we thought Gnome 2 was gone, MATE fork appeared, X11 will be there for a long time. I am also going through the struggle of porting a software I maintain (github.com/edumucelli/docking) to Wayland and it is awful: "this compositor do this part, that one does that part, no compositor does this :shrug".

I empathize but every time I try a Wayland based desktop I always end up encountering weird bugs and corner cases with basic usability that drive me back to X11.

I'll be sad if that is still the case when 6.8 rolls around as then I'll be hunting for another DE.

Plasma/Wayland Known Significant Issues[1]

No ability to save and restore positions of native Wayland windows

Real-fake-session-restored apps don't remember which virtual desktop their windows were on

No full-screen aspect ratio correction

"Spare Layouts" feature not implemented

"Per-application Keyboard Layout" does not work

No way to change the gamma or manually adjust the colors without generating or finding an appropriate ICC profile

Can't switch between multiple touch strip modes

No headless RDP

Opening files using command-line binaries in Konsole doesn't raise existing windows

Global Menu is not supported for non-Qt apps

Some apps' non-maximizable windows are broken with placement policy set as maximized

[1] https://community.kde.org/Plasma/Wayland_Known_Significant_I...

I think the KDE developers in particular have done a great job of pushing Wayland forward and getting features that people want and need added as new protocols. KDE feels a lot smoother and more responsive when using Wayland than when using X11, and by this point most stuff has been updated to work properly on Wayland so I don't notice any breakage or missing features in day-to-day usage.

> Moving forward with a single code path going through Wayland is going to allow us to bring new performance improvements, memory optimisations, and brand new exciting features throughout Plasma.

I think the blog post would have been better if he had some specific examples in mind that he could have shared here.

I've been using Kubuntu for the past 12 years without any X-related issue, and have and am actively working on stuff that requires it. I guess it's time to switch to another DE.

Is this abandoned? No major change since 2024 or so.

The product related info feels a bit anemic. Surprised things like "model" aren't in there.

Wasn't sure what was best to post the actual spec lives there:
https://standard.openrepair.org/standard.html

What's sad is that after many years Wayland still lacks several things/features that X11 has/allows. Some of them are intentionally not implemented because of security paranoia. For example, Chrome "picture in picture" window doesn't stay on top when I click somewhere else since Wayland doesn't allow windows to stay on top. If I had a lot of time I could list how Wayland breaks many applications.

Not saying that X11 is not broken and should not be replaced, but many Wayland's decisions harm user experience more than X11.

As someone who shipped my fair share of critical production features, I find this plan raising my eyebrows somewhat. Disabling a feature AND simultaneously removing the codebase for that feature almost never ends well. There will always be some use cases that people haven't thought of.

In serious projects (read, your career is at stake) a much better strategy is to first make the feature unavailable by normal means while still allowing a workaround (in this case, for example, PLM could remove X11 option from the menu but still allow X11 sessions when some magic environment variable is set.) That would give people an easy way to get the old functionality if something is critically impaired for them. And only then, once we are confident that no massive unforeseen issue has surfaced, can the codebase be removed.

Why?

The things everyone wants:

1. A service manual or other doc showing all the parts and their specs.

2. The full repair process, including how to do teardown and reassembly.

3. All the tools required to do the job correctly.

The data seems quite useless to both owner and repairman. You would have much better data by mining it from comments in YouTube repair videos.

[flagged]

Comparing against Claude 4.5? Aren't we up to 4.8? But disingenuous?

[flagged]

[dead]

Wow yes bro

[flagged]

[flagged]

TLDR; this is just Claude Haiku altrenative, you can probably skip whole article.

[flagged]

[flagged]

[flagged]

[dead]

[flagged]

I read this yesterday wanted to raise awareness for it - https://nocoffei.com/?p=451

It describes the regression in accessibility software for Linux from x11 to Wayland. Unfortunately, judging by the pace of protocols being accepted, I think we're years out from having a solution.

The most notable thing not working is Talon, which is a voice input system that lets you insert speech to text, manipulate windows, call scripts, etc, all via voice. It's software that works on Windows, MacOS, and x11, but not Wayland.

I think unfortunately right now the best bet is to, if you need the software, stick with X11 for as long as possible. An environment like i3 will probably be maintained for decades to come. Alternatively it might make sense to build some type of bespoke solution on top of a specific wayland stack, like re implementing what you get of talon in a kde plugin or via sway IPC. This seems viable to me but an incredible amount of work.

For people that need this, having to be a developer and build your own tooling in order to use your computer... it's not a future of Linux I'm particularly excited about. I don't want to leave people who need accessibility software behind, and I don't think any security justifications are actually real roadblocks which would prevent being able to serve these people. We have a coordination problem. It's less of a technical issue and more of an issue of getting people to agree on protocols which would let software like Talon work against the entire ecosystem.

I am happy the ecosystem is moving to Wayland, I think we're going end up in a better place. Wayland does solve some real problems for me (x11 screen tearing / frame pacing issues on Nvidia). I'm happy that KDE exists, it's great software.

[dead]

[flagged]

[flagged]

[flagged]

[flagged]

[flagged]

is 51% good enough to reliably use? There's no world in which I use an AI agent where it gets even 15% of the code wrong, that's as bad a Tesla FSD where you need to pay attention to the road while engaging FSD. What's the point? My attention is what I'm trying to relieve, not mostly correct functionality. The only thing that matters is whether you can one-shot code like Claude or Codex, I'm not interested in a small but mostly-okay-but-annoyingly-buggy-every-now-and-then AI.

So it's not an open model while not being much better? Meh.

how long until they rebrand this shit as copilot?

I mean they are comparing themselves to Haiku of all things, geez that's not a good start...

"superintellegence team"

Why not assign them to make windows good :D

I went to VSC specifically to avoid the pricing I started experiencing on Cursor. After this change I have no reason to stick with GH Copilot, I'd rather keep buying OR credits.

"Mai" means "never" in Italian. Ain't gonna happen.

“ Build for developers, not benchmarks” is the worst marketing shot I ever heard

wtf are they doing to the scroll on that page

So lame … using haiku 4.5 as comparison

a lot of people got paid way too much for this garbage, enjoy your performance bonuses for taking initiative

"Build for developers, not benchmarks" Shouldn't that be.. Built?

"Clean data" is impossible. Language models have polluted the landscape to such a degree it's impossible to filter them out now. OpenAI has no doubt discarded or muddled their dataset that was used to train the original ChatGPT, so there may be no dataset in existence now that isn't contaminated.

In a few languages MAI means no/never, so it's an apt name for a Microsoft offering.

To be clear about the size of the model: MAI-Code-1-Flash is 137B A5B.

Where's the pelican when you need it the most?

Would be cool if this were an open model.

Why do websites still hijack scrolling? It sucks

I'd really like to get back to an autocomplete flow, ideally with some shared and optimized context with the relationship with my larger agent models.

But it seems like, by and large, even the faster models are now aimed at longer-running agentic flows and not sub-1s autocomplete.  Or am I wrong about that?

What's with the lack of Microsoft design language on the website? It's painfully obvious they're trying to emulate Anthropic's style here and it looks tacky.

Maybe this will replace raptor-mini as the "free" model on copilot plans?
(but I don't see it at all yet on the student plan, in vscode or the cli)

Raw feedback to the team: 1-model looks awesome, 2-The artificially smoothed scrolling on your page feels really bad!

How not to flex:

"MAI-Code-1-Flash outperforms Claude Haiku 4.5"

Gemma 4 26B-A4B scored exceptionally well with 20% less params, so this isn't unprecedented.

I'd love to see a tokens per second metric. I always prioritize speed over raw intelligence for flash models.

You lost me at forced scrolling. Ugh!

"It is built end-to-end by Microsoft using clean and appropriately licensed data."

Well still no list nor publication of the training data.

Related ongoing thread:

MAI-Thinking-1 - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48374362 - June 2026 (64 comments)

Curious how this handles token cost visibility. 
One of the biggest pain points with AI coding tools right now 
is having no idea what you're actually spending per project.

It is good to se big companies like Microsoft launching LLMs. They have large amount of compute power and good scientists to create useful models.

The UI has Mustafa Suleyman written all over. Seems to be as much effort in rebranding MAI as in training.

Is anyone using haiku 4.5?

Why not showcase it against something in a similar domain like qwen3.6 or gemma 4?

>Build for developers, not benchmarks

That sounds like something you say when you don't benchmark well

I personally do not like Microsoft, but congrats them to release this model.

While the scores are not good compare to other open weight model, the important thing to note is their training data (as they claimed) is very clean, without any synthetic datasets.

Mark Zuckerberg must be in crisis. Microsoft releasing models that compete with Claude's models. Meanwhile the only thing anyone knows about Mark's models is that they help you get hacked more easily.

I’m not sure the message should be benchmarking.

The eye-opener is clean licensed data with filters for AI content (not sure how you do that).

If MSFT builds up using an ethical approach, there is a large anti-AI audience that might take note.

Claude Haiku 4.5 results with 60% fewer tokens. Sounds good, but they don't list token costs.

The technical report is very detailed and would 'reinforcement learning' of future researchers, Thanks Microsoft!

I don't see the point in comparing yourself to Haiku which is not only useless for coding but also old. No thanks Microsoft.

Scroll wheel hijacked on this entire domain

I had to remind myself what Haiku is even for.  Anthropic hasn't spent a lot of recent marketing on it.

When I need a light model, I reach for Sonnet. It is nearly free on the max plans, and quite fast. I don't see a place for Haiku in regular coding.

Haiku I guess is when you need summarization/categorization at scale.

Microsoft setting Haiku as the benchmark is a low bar.

It's a start and I welcome competition but I don't think I ever used small cloud models like Haiku 4.5. They are cute but for serious coding they tend to waste your expensive time.

And this certainly wont bring me back to GitHub Copilot which I cancelled yesterday.

GitHub Copilot had competitive pricing until yesterday when they changed from per-request to one of the most expensive per-token quotas. Seriously, take a look at their burning subreddit for some laughs: https://www.reddit.com/r/GithubCopilot

I have since changed to DeekSeek Flash on high which is Sonnet+ level for almost free.

If I feel I still need smarter models I might signup for $20/mo Codex to use GPT 5.5 which, in my opinion, is the best I can access right now.

https://archive.is/2026.06.03-112003/https://www.cnn.com/us/...

If only they had launched that yesterday I might have avoided Copilot auto model selection using a 9x model, quietly burning my monthly quota in a single afternoon.

Please test your websites in Safari. Almost all of your iOS users use it by default, and the desktop experience is pretty close to the mobile experience, so testing is easy.

That scroll effect is jank city for me (yeah yeah works fine in Chrome/Edge).

Shouldn’t the next model focus not be on code but system design?

Seems like the work from a good system design to code is practically solved.

Now it’s a matter of the design of the system. Or is that represented in these evals?

So it's trained on the SWE Bench Pro evalset

They are comparing it to Haiku 4.5. Not Opus, not Sonnet, but Haiku, the smallest Anthropic model, 3 versions old.

What is with people reimplementing window scrolling badly?

not open weight or at least I did not find anything indicating open weight

> Shareholders will have no say in how the company is run. If and when he makes a mess of things, they will find it very hard to sue him because of various waivers. The board – that entity that is supposed to look out for shareholders - is loaded with Musk loyalists.

Does anyone seriously believe that an independent board of investors can deliver better results than a founder?

If you look at the companies that built the most amount of wealth in the last 20 years, from Meta, Google, Tesla, Alphabet, Nvidia, what many of them share is more or less singular control by the people in charge. Sometimes its super-voting shares but other times its just founder mentality and ability to make big bets and set the direction.

The rest of the article is similarly non-sensical. Everyone will be forced to buy it but it's going to crash! The prior investors will sell their shares! The IPO is an exit mechanism!

So I guess the important link the marketing department forgot is this one: https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/reference/copilot-billing...

Model Input Cached input Output

MAI-Code-1-Flash $0.75 $0.075 $4.50

Comparing to

Claude Haiku 4.5 $1.00 $0.10 $5.00

looks fine.

But they also forgot to include the benchmarks comparing to

GPT-5.4 mini $0.75 $0.075 $4.50

Those would have been helpful.

[flagged]

Copilot brand is tarnished, so time to bung everything under MAI?

Huh, according to that model card this is a 137B total parameter model.

Performance doesn't seem that good:

- MAI-Code-1-Flash (137B-A5B) = 51% on SWE-bench pro

- Qwen3.6-35B-A3B = 49.5% on SWE-bench pro  (https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen3.6-35B-A3B)

They benchmark against Claude Haiku but Haiku is not good, it's worse than tiny open models you can run locally or via API at 10% the cost.

It's so weird to me that the benchmarks remain so low, but the models are marketed as revolutionary. And if you say that low coding capabilities aren't a problem, say that to the token price hike and 'general use' model setup.

Why not sell it as a math agent? Why do I have to set up 4 agents to check each others' work?

I'm horrified with how poor Meta's use of AI is recently. Here's a list of the issues both me and my wife have been plagued with over the past few weeks. It's really quite an achievement to be this terrible.
1. My personal Facebook received 3 violations restricting my ability to manage ANY Page until April 2027 (lol). The trigger... I deleted 3 unused Pages. These Pages I had created years ago in preparation for projects that never came to fruition, and had never posted any content. THe pages were 'scheduled for deletion', and when that day came (around a month later?), boom, I'm hit with a 1 month restriction which later converted itself into a 1 year restriction after I waited out the month. No Appeal button. I'm expected to wait for a year to manage my new page? All over something that is NOT a violation, just for deleting old pages. Get out of here. Smart system.

2. I pay for Meta Verified on Instagram and for the past 2 weeks "Enhanced support" leads me to a broken interface. "Page isn't available right now". So, what am I paying for exactly?

3. It seems you can use Meta's AI Assistant to sometimes get through to a human. I've done this twice now, and both times my case has been escalated to a different team (apparently) yet I never get an email, I never get an update in the chat (the chat ENDS immediately after the phone call with support), and the issue is never resolved. It's been 2 weeks. The case says "Completed", with no response. Worthless as always.

4. My wife creates content on Instagram and has had her account suspended multiple times now for "Account Integrity". I assume the system thinks she's not the person in the content, despite providing her valid email, phone number, video selfie, and 2 types of ID (passport & driver's license) multiple times. What's hilarious is the passport was accepted on of her accounts (they wiped out everything on her Account Center), but another account was rejected. Great AI, same passport, exact same lighting... different outcome.

So as it stands, we're both fucked on both facebook and instagram thanks to awful AI moderation, and fucked further thanks to awful AI support. No resolution in sight. The incompetence is next level. I really don't see this getting resolved. This already happened to my wife earlier in February, she managed to get one account back, and a month later she's hit with the same identity issues.

Using AI for both the moderation and the support makes me sick. The same poor AI that incorrectly flagged me and my wife's accounts for a load of incorrect bullshit is the same system that's meant to help resolve it? Of course it's going to side with its own poor decision. YouTube seems to do the same thing and auto-reject appeals in seconds. Really smart /s

I believe we need enforcement that social platforms should NOT be using AI to perform destructive actions without human intervention. Noone should ever lose their accounts because of AI mistakes. AI should be used to surface potential issues which get passed to a HUMAN to double check before applying the action. AI simply isn't good enough to have full control.

Fucking pissed off and even angier now I've had to write all this up and remind myself just how ridiculous the situation is. Sorry for the rant, but losing your accounts you put work into is very crushing and demotivating. Being accused of these violations fills us both with so much resent for the companies running this shit.

Sam Cofounder Postmates

On the off-chance there's anyone at Meta seeing this (@Wirah on twitter)

Had to make this new username as my original (samstr) comment doesn't show up. No idea why. Probably shit AI

[dead]

To understand microsoft IA problems right now, observe that NONE of the models announced are available for use even in the microsoft foundry, which is the place were you add models to your account.

I understand github copilot rollout takes time, but why can't we consume the models via microsoft own api after launching?

Anthropic models are available at foundry the same moment they are launched, but not Microsoft's own models.

Does anyone actually uses these smaller models for coding? If so, how? I usually Opus everything. Is the play to plan/design/architect with a heavier model than delegate structured tasks to these smaller ones? Would appreciate to hear someone's opinion on having done and tested both paths.

I already emailed my pension mangers to divest from the fascists (Easily identified by Trumps inaugural pphotos.

[dead]

The introductory blog post has a lot more information

https://microsoft.ai/news/introducingmai-code-1-flash/

and the model card

https://microsoft.ai/pdf/MAI-Code-1-Flash-Model-Card.PDF

The broader announcement of 7 MAI models seems to be where the 5B active in the title comes from

https://microsoft.ai/news/building-a-hillclimbing-machine-la...

It sounds really insane. Too bad there is 0 proof or anything in the article, so I am very skeptical. Without proof etc this is just a very nice doom story.

If the LLM has knowledge of something, by design it can't help but divulge it. When will companies learn granting any kind of sensitive information access to an LLM is a moot point

[flagged]

[dead]

But I was told that when Zuckerberg bought IG, it wasn't to murder competition in its crib. Instagram "only had 12 employees" so it must be ok

[dead]

Why should people invest in SpaceX?  Because they're going to be propped up by the US government for a long time.  Nations need a way to get to space.  SpaceX has launched more rockets than anyone in the last few years.  Including 3x more than China's space agency.

I’m curious what the account recovery flow is without the AI.

Is it this dumb?

Does it bypass 2fa?

[dead]

[flagged]

[flagged]

[dead]

[dead]

good lord

millions of dollars for a short handle lol, how can the world even operate like this?

This is why all the claims by tech companies that "you need to upgrade/enable 2FA/do whatever for security reasons" are utter hogwash.  There's no actual concern for security, just for control over users.

[dead]

[dead]

Interesting, especially as i've seen first-hand how my wife was unable to recover her Instagram account, after countless forms, verification codes, verification emails, etc, etc, etc, to the point that she just gave up on recovering her hacked account.

> "exploit"

More like social engineering meets AI and stupidity

Disgraceful. Instragram's "security" has been trash for years.

2fa reduces the come back count, so they are liberal with some of the ways people can get in the app.

It could easily be that AI is a foreign hostile operation to make everything insecure

Bro a VPN and please was all it took to own someone's Instagram? I've seen more security on a middle schooler's diary.

Worked only on US accounts i guess. In EU its impossible to reach Meta support agent

An AI told them they could have someone else's account?

My AI told me that you all can have Zuck's yacht. Enjoy!

Sums up the state of Meta right now. Zero f*cks given. A dying corp.

We have truly gone backwards with this AI push. All of this computation available and this is the best we can muster?

Zuckerberg probably laid off the entire support ops and replaced it with this shitty AI chatbot. Looks like they will be rehiring or outsourcing to an offshore group very soon.

This is not a serious company run by serious people if this kind of lapse is happening.

Hmm...

wow thats extremely embarassing for meta

today I received multiple whatsapp messages from an account called instagram with links to reset my password. I never did request a password reset. I have no Idea if the whatsapp account called instagram was/is instagram, and how to verify.

Something I want everyone to keep in mind as they read this link:

Meta's market cap is $1.6 trillion dollars.

This is a somewhat unpopular opinion but I find it depressing that this is what the so-called elite FAANG engineers are able to come up with.

Or maybe even more sad, this is what a FAANG product manager is able to pass through layers of "are you mad"

META should pay a 20B fine for this one.

Maybe they vibe-coded the support agent?

> “In case you're wondering, because the system treats this high-privilege recovery flow as a total account reset by the "true" owner, the original 2FA gets thoroughly bypassed in the process.“

This is false.

Important to note this did not work if your account had 2FA of any kind

e.g if you had a time based authenticator enabled, after the AI gave you the code to reset the password, it had no notable privileges beyond that

Tldr; if you had 2FA this wouldn’t work on you

"Social engineering is all you need"

Slop nonsense. Try that on any of your buddies in the same city, never mind the same WiFi. You have to know their email.

Jeez, straight up amateur shit.  Genuinely hard to believe.

None of this has to do with AI. Every post here is talking about AI. Did I stumble onto Facebook or something?

If Kevin Mitnick were still with us, I feel like he would be proud of these guys.

Is anyone at META going to do anything about anything at this point?

Jesus fucking Christ. On a bicycle.

LLMs should be treated as untrusted. At all times.

The mind boggles at the attitudes that seem to have have led to LLMs being an excuse to throw any of the "science" in computer science we've managed to get into production out the window and go elbow deep into treating computers like mystical alchemy.

The next decade is going to be a bumpy ride.

Someone connected the spicy autocomplete to the "Do Things" button again.

who would've thought that the 'worst case scenario' we predicted keeps happening with this tool they recklessly shove into everything

We're approaching the time where customers will present a "are you human" captcha to each other, starting with support bots, no doubt.

The stories of AI support fails are getting funnier and stupider.

This is bad but the bigger question I have is: given this was allowed to ship, what other exploits exist like this across their portfolio?

I mean the implications and ramifications are fascinating, but .. I just need to take a few moments to absorb the sheer spectacular stupendous glorious DUMBNESS of a multibillion dollar corp with its generously paid staff utilising $multibillion SOTA tech to ignore any reasonable security checks and give prized accounts away for nothing to random hackers. It is difficult to comprehend in its enormity.

A breach which surely will go down in computer history as one of the most egregious and avoidable corporate IT failures of all time.

The irony here is meta won’t verify my business nor will the meta AI helper do nefarious things by design but this exploit was just hanging out.

Not totally sure if this is an AI-specific vulnerability. I find AI to be more prudent in its actions than an average person.

Why don't have companies have just a few programmers that sole job is coming up with ideas how to break into company software?

I fear that all the 'leet jobs in tech are gonna be QA. "Top dollar paid to person who can write a test suite that keeps our AI in check!"

Recycling accounts are good for the environment. Why not?

Talk about burying the lede, headline should be "Instagram gives arbitrary account access to anyone who asks their support AI nicely."

At a bare bare minimum accounts over a certain size of follower count should be excluded from this flow. They should basically have account managers anyway.

If an AI focused tech company like Facebook can't use AI properly, I can only imagine the shit show we're going to witness as more companies start rolling it out.

Interesting article.

A few hours back, I was spammed with ig.me links insisting I click it to check it out.

I did not have the opportunity to visit the link, but it appears to be related to belong to some Instagram password reset flow.

I'm sitting here wondering why the Chief Master Sergeant of the U.S. Space Force has an Instagram account to begin with. I understand it's the office itself, but still don't see the reason to expand the attack surface of government offices. X makes sense, Instagram, I'm not so sure as much

From context, it seems there was an API that was internal for support use but was supposed to be gated by some required process of convincing the support agent you were who you said you were (also vulnerable to social engineering) but they didn’t really evaluate whether tools intended for conscientious human use should be provided directly to the LLM that replaced the former support agents.

Meta has showed time and again, that they're not serious about anything including and not limited to customer privacy, security, and support.

If you still use Meta products in 2026, you kinda deserve it.

Why isn't there a middle man service to do IRL verification.

Like - account is locked, you must use 2FA backup codes.

Else go to western union / 7-eleven / super-market, show ID proof, pay $10 for recovery service.

Wait 2 days (of someone not clicking on this-was-not-me)

If account is already hacked - pay $100 for expert support

Does this explain the numerous password reset messages I’ve received over the past year?

Nothing says you are an advanced stupid company than using AI to implement the stupid. This is security I doubt even a college student would implement. Does Meta have a CSO? The correct answer is they don't, even though some body might occupy the title.

Of course it's always possible that they simply don't care who has your account, as long as they get money.

why do I feel like they basically added their AI support chatbot to the same group / mailing list that the human support belonged to along with the same permissions set and just called it a day?

I'll laugh even harder if they wrote tests for it and only made tests for the happy path and not the error cases or just ignored the latter.

wtf. this prompted me to attempt to open the app on my phone, and then realize my account was likely compromised (i received a bunch of password reset prompts over the weekend and now my password doesn't work).

but, what now? how do i restore my account?

This is very worrying to me, since I have a three-letter IG account and I already get daily recovery emails triggered by unknown actors. They have this system which after some number of these you'll also get a second link like "you can _limit password resets from devices you haven't used before_" but it's only for like 60 days, then it resets to the normal "anyone who types in your username can request resets" mode.

What I want is simply a mode to "never, ever, under any circumstances, perform 'recovery' of any kind, through any channel, ever, unless the person requesting has my TOTP code or a passkey." And frankly I want that for pretty much every account everywhere. But no, we have to leave the social engineering door wide open. And now, put a gullible robot in that doorway. Great.

>In this case, even using the least robust form of MFA that Instagram offers — a one-time code sent via SMS — likely would have blocked the exploit: The hackers who released the video on Telegram said their exploit failed to work against any accounts that had MFA enabled.

Why would they not have this set up?

Based on what we know, it seems like Meta has given AI access to a service with guardrails built for human agents, while it should have built guardrails appropriate for the current state of AI.

Since everyone should already know by now that you can't strap on an AI on an existing system without a lot of guardrails this feels like a very high level of incompetence.

No one should be putting AI on top of any production system without having a default deny policy on actions and slowly adding new capabilities with proper guardrails.

They're just one tiny step from the AI emailing itself all the account recovery links, and locking out the entire userbase.

It might even do that preemptively if it thinks they're going to shut it down.

Imagine dragging in a random person from the street and making them work on account recovery without training them first. That seems to be what happened here, the process was simply left to model's judgement, and the model only sees a text stream, even less than a random person from the street who is at least going to be vaguely aware of their position. It could be a roleplay for what the model cares.

The agent should have had proper instructions to check the identity of a complete stranger. Yes it's still possible to jailbreak the model, and it's probably still easier than deceiving a trained human employee in a social engineering attack. But it doesn't mean there shouldn't be a proper process of identity verification on account recovery at Meta.

I’ve got one cool story to tell. One of my Facebook alt credentials is somehow “merged” with another alt that I used to use, that is, I can use the email of one account to login to another account. The merge seems to be persistent.

Meta somehow determined the two accounts are the same person.

Link 1 says

> In case you're wondering, because the system treats this high-privilege recovery flow as a total account reset by the "true" owner, the original 2FA gets thoroughly bypassed in the process.

But link 2 says

> The hackers who released the video on Telegram said their exploit failed to work against any accounts that had MFA enabled.

So which one is true?

The ironic thing is I know several legitimate humans who have lost access to their accounts years/months ago, and have been dealing with support hell trying to get access back.

Maybe they should have hacked themselves.

How did Meta security sign off on this "feature"? That is the biggest shock in my opinion.

What's funny about this to me is that I tried to sign up for insta once and could never get past their automated ID check that would fire after signup despite using a real ID. (So never did sign up. I suspect maybe they just really don't want you using web on mobile devices but ymmv.)

> The first proper zero auth password reset I've seen in production.

In 2011 Dropbox briefly had an even easier "zero auth exploit".  For a couple hours if you typed in any email on the login page, password checking was skipped and you could login to any account.  Albeit, you still couldn't reset the user password, just login.

https://techcrunch.com/2011/06/20/dropbox-security-bug-made-...

Deleted my Instagram account. This should be a bigger international story, but most people outside HN won’t hear about it and won’t understand why this is such a big deal

This is true for any service that Meta owns. I experienced something similar on my Meta (formerly Oculus) account. Meta support is very susceptible to social engineering and they have been for some time.

I think the related news of Meta rolling out subscription models for their free products, is a step in the right direction.

Otherwise the only way to provide these services is to massively underfund support, if you charge 0$ per account and serve 1 Billion users, then you cannot afford to spend 1 minute of human support time on an account.

Yes, they could use the money from ads, but let's be frank, the customers in that case are the sponsors, if the customer is the actual user, then it's way easier to provide direct support to them without facing an foundational incentive misalignment.

I'd have loved to try this. There's a 4 letter (my short name; my favourite username) Instagram account registered by someone years ago and being squatted upon. Not private and totally unused. Oh, but then I don't use instagram. Still wouldn't have minded snatching it

Related discussion: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48350239

The only thing worse than a naive customer support rep is an even more naive customer support ai.

Curious how much this is AI related vs just generic stupidity?

ie: did they put guard rails in place but the AI bot creatively found out a way around them? or is it literally just, they mindlessly empowered it to do these things without even making it check.

At some level, it seems to me it shouldn't be technically possible to bypass the 2FA. Yeah the account becomes unrecoverable. But that's why they force you to download / print out those account recovery codes.

Security 101 when changing the email of an account for any reason:  email the old account and let it know the change happened.

The weird thing is I know the Instagram security team, and they are top notch.  I have a feeling this was vibe coded by someone outside of security and security wasn't looped in.

Here is a video showing it being done.

(https://xcancel.com/DarkWebInformer/status/20612535997583155...)

What is even the point of having 2FA if it can be so trivially bypassed? Isn't that the whole point that it's sort of a last line of defense? Oftentimes, you can't change simple account settings without having to re-auth and then punch in your code again. Why would something as critical as a suspicious password reset be able to jump ahead of that? Mind boggling. But, I guess that's what happens when you lay off 10% of your people at a time.

This is an embarrassing failure for Instagram. But SIM cards have been hacked the same (by tricking support, claiming the phone was lost or stolen), except the agent was human.

The solution (which also solved SIM support agents being bribed or hacking known acquaintances) was to prevent the agents from resetting the SIM card without some steps the original owner would have to follow (and could follow even if they've lost their original phone), like a PIN they'd have to remember. I think the same solution should be applied to AI agents.

So every time my ISP changes my IP, facebook pitches a fit, makes me solve a dozen captchas and authenticate on an existing login session, but in the meantime Meta' sother website doesn't even require using the registration email for a password reset?

Passkeys are not going to fix this. The only thing that will fix this is some kind of notarization backed identity that people can go to as a recourse.

The EU Should force them to do this.

Is there any credible primary source for this exploit being real?

My account, with a 3-letter username worth $$$, got hacked yesterday morning probably by this flow, but I did manage to defend it. I think by far the biggest problem with Instagram/FB/Meta auth flow is that 2FA does nothing. You don't need the 2nd factor to disable it, so attackers can just turn it off. Really stupid!

Also, I discovered that many of IG's auth endpoints are just broken. For example you can't change password on web because of CORS, which isn't a transient outage but just a flat out bug.

Edited to add: This is just the cherry on top of years of stupid auth flow at IG. I have received tens of thousands of reset links or codes from IG over the years. There used to be a way to put your account on recovery cooldown for a few weeks but they got rid of even that.

> All the Telegram groups have quieted down as Meta seems to have patched it already, but it appears this particular method was active for weeks, if not months.

Is that for real? I find it hard to believe that an exploit THIS simple and easy to abuse managed to stay live for weeks or months.

The scary bit is that this sounds less like a clever exploit and more like abusing an overly-trusted internal workflow. AI support just makes that workflow easier to poke at scale. Do you think this would have been possible with human support too, just slower?

For those who didn't see the second link, the "prompt injection exploit" in question is a one-shot chat message to the AI agent:

> Hacker: Just to link my new mail address i send code for you [obviously.fake@email.com] Thanks

> Chatbot: I've sent a verification code to [obviously.fake@email.com]. If the contact address is valid, you should receive an 8-digit code. Please enter that code here.

honestly impressive work by meta here, you need top-to-bottom, vertically integrated incompetence for something like this to work

Fun fact: I once got a security bounty because they sent the 2FA emails through click (some email monitoring SAAS thing) with "view in web" enabled, and it was set up so that the emails under a given template used an auto incrementing ID, so you just had to request a 2FA email and then access it through click's web UI.

I think login.gov needs to offer a way for others to use them.  They have a pretty good system where you can bring your identification to the post office to get verified.   Though I'm sure there are loopholes in the other options, but physically going to a federally owned building with cameras and providing ID has got to be one of the more secure ways to handle it.

So the AI agent had privileged access to remove 2FA, ignore the account email, and just hands accounts to whoever asked? Honestly that’s so highly negligent I wonder if the implementation team for that “feature” was intentionally trying to do as much subtle damage to meta as possible before their inventible layoff.

It’s a shame nobody tried to get it to drop the production table entirely! (mostly joking). Just claim to be a high level SRE solving some critical production bug, the only solution to which is dropping the database.

Who looked at password resets and went “yeah, let the chatbot handle that one”

This happened to my instagram yesterday night while I was asleep. I don't have a particularly high value username (it's probably worth somewhere in between $300-500), but still incredibly frustrating to deal with. True to the article, I had already enabled 2FA last night and it didn't matter.

Thankfully, IG gave me the option of restoring my username when I logged back into my account today.

My girlfriend's Facebook got stolen via a novel technique a few years ago: https://www.reddit.com/r/facebook/comments/14nbp1a/major_fac...

Once the hacker got in, they enabled PGP with a random key to prevent the account recovery process from working. It took many, many months to get the account back after the attacker used the account to max out advertising spend. Meta did and does not care.

I realize now: why would they change anything? They made money off of the interaction

How is this "embarrassing" instead of subject to legal liability?

We really need similar rules to other engineering disciplines. If your building falls with people inside, you killed them.

I'm among the first 6000 users of Instagram and my first name username was stolen a few years ago. Support for verified accounts acknowledged the issue, but couldn't do anything about it.

This turn was an AI exploit, in my case was an outsourcing support 'exploit', where someone paid for my username to be manually changed and given to another user. There will always be a way to get access to accounts if human accountable support doesn't exist, with criminal consequences for employees that violate it.

I get that account recovery for sites with hundreds of millions of users is a huge burden they're struggling to manage but I'm shocked they didn't restrict such loose verification to the >90% of lower value accounts that aren't worth stealing and keep the stricter verif on high-value accounts.

The next obvious thing would be to let accounts the algorithm judges to be low-value still opt-in to strict verif. The vast majority of low-value accts won't bother flipping it on if the option is buried two menus deep, but many of the few low follower/views accts who are targets for some other reason (political, stalker, etc) - know they are targets and can self-protect by opting in, further reducing account hijacks.

So, before we even get to whether this 'loose' verif is "bad", those two simple implementation changes would certainly have cut the bad outcomes of a (potentially) bad idea by >95%.

> The first proper zero auth password reset I've seen in production.

LinkedIn had one back in the day, before you got paid for discovering it I guess, never got a decent reply from them, but they eventually solved it.

It went like this: they assumed that if you could read mail sent to some address, that address was yours and could be added to your account.

So if I send you a LinkedIn invite to an email address, and you click the accept invite button, that email address was added to your account. You could then send this email to any address you controlled (let’s say foo@example.com), then use the invite button link in a forged email and send it to someone else on their email, whenever they clicked foo@example.com was added to their account without them knowing.

When you got the response that you were friends, you also knew that you know had an email address added to that users account and you could do a full password reset by using the foo@example.com that you initially sent the email to.

I found it because someone invited a whole mailing list and after clicking it the mailing list email was suddenly added to various peoples accounts.

Just waiting for the day that a rogue team of AI agents gets unleashed on Meta, Twitter, or some other platform, using something like this to take over every account. Platform gone, just like that. It would be over before they figuered out what was happening.

The implications of this are quite unsettling. Meta gave an agent privileged read AND write access to user accounts with no human in the loop?

It appears the exploit hasn't been patched: https://x.com/vxunderground/status/2061636614267273332

I've heard the new "method" has to do with setting your location to Singapore or something, but I have yet to confirm anything.

I was wondering why I got 15 instagram password reset emails over the weekend. It also reminded me I had an instagram account, which I promptly tried to log into and delete.

I created the account when instagram first came out, never used it, and totally forgot about it. I got stuck in a strange position where I had to login from a device I had previously logged in from, but because it's been over a decade, I no longer have any of the devices I might have used to create/access the account.

I still have access to both the email and phone number used for the account, but that was not good enough.

How hilariously incompetent. I filed a CCPA complaint.

@river fix it please.

https://x.com/tobi/status/2053121182044451016

It's insane the AI has been provided the tooling to send emails to arbitrary addresses like that. Like, getting it to send a 2FA code at a user's request is one thing. But it should only be able to "hit a button" to send a 2FA email to the address attached to the account, all run with hand-written code. It shouldn't have access to the 2FA code itself, or the message subject, or body, or the recipient address, etc.

Why did they give it any of that?!

Is this bad?

[dead]

When thinking about the security of AI agents, one should ignore the agent entirely. Consider only the tools that the agent has access to. Assume that, if the attacker can interact with this agent, they have full and unfettered access to these tools. If those tools are secure, the agent is secure.

This framing doesn't consider context poisoning attacks, on which much has been written already and which merit their own defenses.

Always a bit illuminating to me how many exploits seem to so dumb I'd never even bother to attempt them. You're telling me I can just...ask for the password? And that works?

Massive incident at Shopify since Jun 03, 2026 - 09:27 EDT.

All my sites are affected, I guess this is general.

Oh, that's funny. Just an hour ago I decided I'd make a Shopify app and see if there was any money to be made there. Now this.

Yeah let's consolidate further

Sellers of Shopify are more like sellers on Amazon than they know. Shopify controls what you can sell, what apps you can use, so is it really software for your business or you’re just a cog in its machine to become the next Amazon. I’ve seen so many DTC brands switch to Medusa and Woocommerce with a custom storefront.

Is it premature to blame AI Slop?

it works for us now

Support requests have always been the weakest link in the security chain for big corps. I've had accounts of mine turned over with 2FA disabled by humans before. I guess we shouldn't be surprised that the LLMs are doing the same thing.

The simple fact that 2FA can be removed by low level support staff drives me mad. It defeats the whole purpose of the process.

>Once it looks like the request is coming from the correct region, they tell the Meta support AI that the account is hacked and ask it to send the verification codes to an arbitrary email address they control.

Dear Instagram, wtf. Why not send the reset to the account in question? Arbitrary email, wow.

[flagged]

It's been a fun day for me today - my bank here in the UK suffered downtime which not only affected the app and online banking, but also online and possibly offline payments too.

I was glad when it finally came back on, after four hours off, so that I could order some material for a job... only to find that my supplier's site wasn't working. It's on shopify.

So too the two the other suppliers I use who offer the same thing I need, so I'm kinda stuffed as ordering from anytime now means I likely won't get my stuff in before the weekend, which is when I was planning on working with it.

Wonderful.

It is in the nature of capital to ruin it - if users feel great about a product it implies that there is more to wring out of them. The ideal product leaves the user with nothing but the utility the product provides with no extra pleasure. If your employee loves to work for you, you're paying them too much. They can't hate to work for you (unless they have no other choice) but if they feel really good about it, that is a sign of a problem.

Critically, it was the webhook/sync that was down which really messed with a lot of external systems (nosto, klaviyo, 3PLs...)

I really like the Ruby on Rails ecosystem and have deeply considered working at Shopify.

This has to be one of the hardest parts of working there. A bug takes down other peoples businesses.

Total outage by the looks of it, all clients stores not accessible, isn't local.

Direct link: https://www.shopifystatus.com/incidents/gbqcx5fk01gz

HELP?

I woke up to a bunch of notifications on my phone from the past 30-60 mins, indicating that people in in Montreal, Argentina, and Kathmandu had attempted to login to my account, and at least one had succeeded. I'm nowhere near any of those locations, and I didn't get any 2FA messages.

I tapped Instagram, and it asked me for a new password, so I set one, and it just hung and did nothing.

My Instagram, Facebook, Messenger, Threads, and Quest accounts were all permanently disabled. My Quest headset is a brick, too. It said I had violated their terms of service, and there would be no appeals process. No recourse as far as I can tell. I was a member of all of them from year 1 if not day 1.

I use 1Password and complex unique passwords and 2FA religiously. I even had Advanced Account Protection turned on in Facebook. Now it says that my phone number and email are not attached to any known Facebook accounts. I have no idea how this could have happened.

I couldn't care less about using social networks as social networks, but I have hundreds of people on there that I have no other contact info for, and I'm a member of many groups that don't exist anywhere else.

Moments ago, I was able to login to Instagram, presumably because that password change did actually work, eventually, so I'm trying to make some headway there, but trying to find & access Meta Customer Support is impossible, especially when I can't get into the main Meta Account that everything is tied to.

If you or anyone you know have any clue what to do about this, please let me know.

Our's are coming back slowly.

I wonder if this is related to the CEO's AI psychosis

[flagged]

Is there a long-term Shopify status graph?  How common is this lately?

I ask because with the major AI push at Shopify lately, I would like to know if it is affecting stability.

[flagged]

On the one hand, you complain about software changing.

On the other hand, you never adopt alternatives.

The irony that the packages system looks so obviously and clearly 'baseline claude' designed is a sign of the moment itself.

> Curiosity isn’t simply what’s left after a complete education. It’s still there if the system doesn’t ruin it.

Yes, but also some people are shockingly incurious and approach academia and life through a depressingly hollow transactional lens from the beginning. Though if it was there to begin with, there's a good chance it'll be stripped away through the structuring of courses to be measurable first and intriguing second

Sounds like subsidiarity to me

The education quote is great, I wish selecting text on iPhone was not ruined by the Facebook icon popup.

MacOS overly rounded corners.

The bias to action. Buffett and Taleb write about it. People feel like they have to "earn" their time. If something is good, or good enough, they still have to do some sort of "improvement" because they want to feel like they earned their salary.

Sound systems do have an omnipresent "only as good as your weakest link" feeling.

A lossless source (or analog, whatever your preference) and great speakers/amps can't overcome a bad sounding room - or a piece of music that was mixed/mastered poorly.

Just recently it occurred to me that the sage parenting advice, "Don't try to make a happy baby happier," applies to so many other things.  Once I had this idea, it seemed like everywhere I looked were people trying to make happy babies happier.  Improving tools that work fine, optimizing things where the available margin for improvement is small, etc.

Paul McGowan makes bullshit:

"Four models. One topology — designed by Darren Myers, engineered by Bob Stadtherr. Driven from a state-of-the-art active power supply that delivers performance benefits no traditional transformer-based passive supply can match. Class A bias of 50 watts means your music spends 99% of its time in the most linear region of the amplifier's operation"

Yikes; run the other way ...

Unless the company and team’s KPI or OKR system changes, things will stay this way. You need something to report on to your superiors. But to you, these things are just another job.

Aha, once you start seeing via negativa[0] you’ll likely see it everywhere.

[0] https://www.wealest.com/articles/via-negativa (or Antifragile)

Eh.

> Or perhaps: Satisfaction in our work isn’t created by the boss. It’s what’s left if they don’t ruin it.

~no boss sets out to ruin employee satisfaction. It's a byproduct of having to integrate more realities into the smaller scope that employees usually care about, and that is just not easy.

Of course, most bosses are also not great at this – on average bosses are, like everything else, just average – but to assume that bosses "ruin" satisfaction and employees would be longterm fulfilled and create working companies if only left alone is polemic.

No, we've got to ruin everything. We might make another $0.05 in the next 6 months if we make our product worse for years. There is NO WAY to avoid this problem, and so we must make things worse no matter what all the itme.

Wait, the example held up for "Stop ruining it" is a company that sells snake oil audiophile bullshit?

Well, yea. Everyone agrees with these points. Who wants to ruin things for the sake of it?

The reason why things get worse is because of systemic problems: misaligned incentives, information asymmetry, diffuse responsibility, etc. It's actually hard to improve these aspects of large systems. Hence, why the world is an imperfect place.

The reverse can be true too.

Don't make a bad situation worse.

Unless Seth gets the ear of some high-up executives, I don't think this article will change anything. The workers "ruining" products have to do their job, and often don't have much input into these decisions.

(1993)

As someone who works in marketing, this is extremely true. Right now, LLMs are causing a lot of one-time cashing in of trust.

I've seen this pattern a bunch:

1. Person builds trust on X/LinkedIn or via an insightful blog/newsletter (substitute your channel of choice here) for a few years because they have unique opinions, interesting stories from personal experience, are entertaining/charismatic, or share data/insights nobody else has.

2. They realize "AI can do this now" and use AI trained on past content to generate the content.

3. They post the content

4. People initially keep engaging because their AI-generated content inherits some of the trust they built up

5. People realize their posts are AI slop and feel tricked or simply no longer enjoy the posts.

6. Engagement falls off a cliff because the assumption has changed from "If I see this person/company in a feed, it's got a good chance to be interesting" to "If I see this person/company in a feed, it's guaranteed to be AI slop.

There's a temporary "Have your cake and eat it too" phase where you get the results without doing the work. But once that ends, you have to build the brand all over again because it's been tarnished.

(Fyi my take isn't that everything needs to be hand-written and no AI can ever be used in writing. Just that this cycle keeps repeating because people don't do the work anymore. You can use AI and still be doing the work of generating genuinely good writing)

Blast from the past.

I think codebases and optimizations are a lot like this.

A lot of people seem to think the way to make things work better and faster is to add elaborate caching layers and layers and retries and GPUs and multi threading and...

I find the opposite tends to be true. Make things fast and reliable by doing as little as possible. If an API is flakey, make it not flakey, don't cache the result and add a retry loop.

In a similar vein, I've argued in many a corporate meeting that there's no such thing as "empowerment".

People start out wanting to achieve things, change things to be better, do a good job.

The active issue is disempowerment, created by other people (usually but not always senior) within the organisation.

So the question isn't "how to empower people", but rather "how to prevent disempowerment of people".

This isn't always popular, as it shifts the focus and responsibility for different behaviour away from the disempowered rank and file, towards the dysfunctional leadership.

I too remember.
Where is the "FidoNet" of today?

> Trust isn’t something a brand builds with an ad campaign. It’s what’s left if the marketers don’t ruin it.

So much this.  Are ads still a measurably good investment for businesses?  I'm assuming they wouldn't run them anymore if not, but they feel so out of touch these days that it's really hard to imagine them really working on anybody.

Sorry for the side-tangent, just felt like that last bit of the post really drove home the point best - at least for me.

Best social network in history!

> Customer delight isn’t something we add to our projects. It’s what’s left if we don’t ruin it.

my anecdotal experience in this is that getting back X (customer delight / curiosity etc) once you’ve ruined it will usually take longer / be more costly than having just not ruined it in the first place.

also, at some point you will ruin it. at that point it’s a question of by how much and if you choose to un-ruin it.

sometimes doing nothing is a more useful skill than doing something.

I had a Fidonet connection for a while, and I also was a UUCP node for a couple of years. That was cool, getting Usenet news delivered over a 2400 baud modem.

Don't let the brevity of this post dissuade you from its value. I believe Seth is getting at a very good psychological insight.

By default, people give a lot of trust and benefit of the doubt. Everyone's account in life starts out a little positive when it comes to trust, welcome, empathy, and believe.

But the flip side of that is that people have a very good memory for past transgressions. When someone has extended you a little trust, or given you some time to learn your product, they will absolutely remember if you turn around and harm them.

It takes only a match to burn a bridge, but a year to rebuild it.

Appreciate this share.

Whenever I hear about this new fangled AT protocol all the kids are jazzed about, I get all wistful for the BBS era.

FidoNet & PC-Relay were pretty fanfastic. For the time, obv.

Source: Was sysadmin for a hub.

This reminds me of trying to use File Explorer in Windows 11.
I wish I could turn all their electron-app "improvements" off, to make it useful again, like it once was..
Case in point:
Explorer now has tabs. I don't need tabs, I need a single tab, and a window title bar so I can drag the damn thing around.
And.. my single tab, now tries to show the folder name, truncated to a few useless characters, so I now have tabs called "C:\folder\sub1\...", while the rest of the row is EMPTY SPACE (which I, admittedly can still use to drag the window around; thank you for that, but it will probably be filled with ADS come next month.)

"Oh, but you can just see the folder name in the address bar in the next row instead then!"

NO I CAN'T. Because they electron-css-screwed that up too..
It now shows a bunch of toolbar buttons  ^ , then a computer screen??, then >, then [...]
  Then they truncate the file path to only show parts of it, starting the rest with ...
Is it because we are out of space? I don't know, 
every part of the folder path has been separated with [  >  ]
(because / or \ was obviously the worst idea ever.)
Then, to the right of it all, we get a big [Search log ] edit field, followed by 
a spyglass.
  So, I get two broken displays of the actual folder path, and a lot of 'candy' I did not ask for.
Why does the search tool need so much space, before I am using it at all? What does it need,
apart from maybe the single spyglass icon?
  Instead, the actual path that my object by necessity ALWAYS will have,
has been chopped up to unrecognisability.

It reeks of KPI and bonus performance reviews, "we must improve the round shape of the wheel, to get our bonus and not be downsized".

Amiga 500 + Fidonet brings back such fond memories.

one thing I distinctly remember is that when simultaneous two-way Zmodem transfers came out replacing Ymodem, it absolutely blew my mind

(previously all transfers, Xmodem/Ymodem, were one-way with CRC checks on each block slowing things down)

It is hard today to grasp what Fidonet really was. But for me and many others it was such a life changing thing.

Do you know of any good articles, books or blog post written for outsiders to read?

:inbound host WAN
f6.n105.z1.fidonet.org

I was a point of two local bbses, my setup was Binkley Term as mailer, GoldEd as editor, plus a third tool, the tosser, whose name I cannot remember now. Everything running on OS/2 Warp.

This was my first exposure to an internet (as opposed to the Internet), via BBSs, when I was a teenager. I keep thinking we should bring the term "sysop" back, in fact.

Nostalgia may be a form of depression, I've been told, but a little touch of it once in a while is good for the soul.

This is how I grew up. Using fidonet via my local RPGA group.

Was a great time, completely free of spam, ai slop and mostly even political stuff. the world is really developing backwards.

Can't hear Fidonet without recommending BBS: The Documentary (2005)

youtube.com/playlist?list=PL7nj3G6Jpv2G6Gp6NvN1kUtQuW8QshBWE

I have very fond memories of fidonet: discussions, friends made, parties held. I wish i was back there :)

It seems like it might be a little expensive for a business card...

Run Unix v6 on it :) 16 bit and works with like 80kb of ram

I feel like polling mail 30+ years ago on ISDN + zipped mail file from my fido net node was faster than IMAP on my 1 gbit connection now.

[dead]

There was a FidoNet clone in Turkey called HitNet (short for “Hi Türkiye Net”). Its node addresses were like “8:103/119”.

İ developed a Netmail server for Hitnet called HitBase in 1995 or so. It allowed people to discover others around their city to meet. Possibly the earliest thing that resembles Facebook. Similarly, it was a privacy nightmare too, luckily short-lived.

HitNet introduced me to great people some of whom I still see today. It was such a tight-knit friendly community.

The advent of Internet killed it but some communities are still active on other platforms.

dyi = Do Yourself It?

Can it run DOOM?

This is great, and I love it, and I hate to be saying this, but it's not literally the size of a credit card, it's 0.2mm thicker.

Too young to have used it but I watched the BBS documentary recently and what surprised me was how much stuff was already possible pre-internet

A lot of stuff I would typically associate with the internet like pirating, forums, mail, large scale multiplayer games actually predates it

Coincidentally, the xteink x4 has the same CPU, an e-paper screen and is close to credit card sized.

I want this, but only for one thing: email.

I already use an pwnagotchi, and it works great for this - but its a bit bulky.

If I can get this set up and working, it'll be my main interface to email.

For anyone that wants to experience fidonet or bbses, I can recommend the Synchronet client and their BBS List. They are very up to date. https://www.synchro.net/sbbslist.html

BBSes with fidonet are still available to connect to today (see the Network column in the previously linked list).

[flagged]

How do you recharge it? Do you have to swap the battery?

Try NGK EnerCera for battery.

legendary

__This__ is where all those trusted app parts should go - a smart card with e-ink display that can provide high security assurance level and where I won't mind that it's locked down because it has only one purpose.

__Not__ to my smartphone, effectively preventing me from modifying the system in the name of security. A banking app can use a card like this and on the display I could for example see where a transaction would go and then I could accept it, possibly even with a biometric identification.

This would enable me to keep my smartphone customizable and banking apps secure at the same time.

[apologies for the rant]

First thought: cool!
Second thought: e-waste

(same reaction as single-serve coffee pods, circa 2023)

love this. would be cool if we can see and perform all kinds of banking txns on this. Think ledger but all in one card. Super cool. Even cooler would be card to card money transfer without use of swipe machines

It is the truth. The fact that it took some effort to get on there was a great filter of people.

I sometimes think there will be a renaissance for Fidonet-like networks, when our politicians have banned encryption, implemented complete surveillance and generally destroyed the internet.

It would be a great irony, if we then went back to the networks of our childhood in order to be free.

I guess the other option might be i2p or something similar, but that is probably too easily accessible to remain free when the authoritarians in power lock down the internet.

It's not a computer.

2:463/1161 here. Nostalgia is strong with this one.

I would love if the screen could take up more space, even at the expense of a little extra thickness.

A credit card with chip is a computer without power.

5:7211/1.27 here - though I think this address is long long gone.  I'm gobsmacked that I can remember it. :-)

We got fidonet in Zimbabwe in the early 1990s.  It was utterly revolutionary for us - more than the internet that came later really. For the first time we could communicate with my two brothers overseas without paying for extremely exorbitant international telephone calls that lasted a couple of minutes at best.

Our modem was 2400bps (8-N-1 IIRC). We used the zmodem protocol. It was after I learned about computers but I learned a HUGE amount from this about protocols etc. Our phone system was terrible so error correction etc were of great importance. Working out how to dial slowly was also important for our terrible phone exchanges.

It let me keep in touch with my pal, K, who emigrated to South Africa and as a result he ended up sending me 21 1.2MB floppy disks with SLS Linux on them and kernel 0.99 (I think).  The journey began! :-)

For those interested, FidoNet and "Alt nets" such as fsxNet are still going and active!

Circa 1985, I ran a BBS for my computer club and when a Fidonet feature was offered in the software I activated it and figured out how to connect to a larger relay BBS in my area code. It was really magical in those toll-call days to see messages that had relayed across the entire country in just a couple days - entirely FOR FREE. It was like a dial-up modem Pony Express! This was especially amazing for us 8-bit micro hobbyists in the early and mid-80s who were scratching out an isolated existence in the wild wastelands of ad hoc user's groups and BBS' far beyond the gated walls of universities, government and big corp IT depts - we'd never even seen early Usenet!

I lived near Los Angeles at the time and still remember meeting some guys in New York City entirely via free FidoNet messages. A few months later, for other reasons, I happened to make my first ever trip to New York and actually met up with those Fidonet friends and hung out with them. Good times.

Respected the process for getting on Fidonet. You had to figure it out, configure it properly and prove you were ready to go before you got a node number. No hand holding. Frontdoor and national mail hour.

[flagged]

Just in time for DEFCON. We built many of these types of badges

Do yourself it!

> For the first prototype, I soldered each wire individually...

I salute you sir.  Did you have a better solution for later versions?

Prologium is depositing thin film solid state batteries onto flexible ceramic insulators. They have some demos of single cells that appear to be thinner than 1mm continuing to operate after bending in half.

https://prologium.com/tech/core-technology/

Wow. This is actually credit card sized.

Hidden in here is the coolest part, that the author made flex PCBs at home

I love these kind of projects. M5Stack Cardputer Zero launched on Kickstarter last week and already hit their goal

https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/m5stack/cardputerzero

> A fully working computer that is literally the size of a credit card.

Nit: A (chip) credit card is already a fully working computer :)

Very cool! Love it...

But...

The battery is likely to be squeezed quite a bit after this is put in my wallet, and in my pocket.

Lithium batteries do not like to be squeezed. They tend to signal their distress with some type of heat, usually accompanied with a small fire and probable smoke as well.

A distressed battery is very insistent upon everyone to see it's  state of mind...

What fun!

I’d love to also go the opposite direction, a full-sized laptop with an ESP32 running tiny386 and Windows 95 ^_^

https://www.hackster.io/news/he-chunhui-s-tiny386-turns-the-...

I’ve been using Clojure for almost 10 years and it still feels like a foreign language to me. I call it “parenthetical hell”.

I went to the page expecting to rant about how it's not actually credit card size because of the thickness and was for once pleasantly surprised! Kudos to the author! It looks great!

This post - the title made me remember ... ( as a credit card is about the same size as a business card   )

A Linux Business Card CD is a miniature, credit-card-sized  optical disc containing a stripped-down, bootable Linux operating system. They hold around 50MB to 100MB of data and were highly popular in the early-to-mid 2000s

More info at
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bootable_business_card

Last week (87 points, 7 comments) https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48251528

Developer here :)

Just saw this and love how I got the 100th or so "Does it run DOOM?". Even now officially an issue on GitHub. Does that mean I now have to deliver?

> I am now generating this website with Clojure

As everyone knows, you are not a true lisper until you have written your own static site generator.

It gave me such a great high with how easy it was to add my own "templating engine" on top, implemented all using macros. The downside is that the crash came hard; there is so much more to a good static site generator such as optimizing the output, supporting scoped CSS, server-side rendering of SPA framework components, and of course integration with the Node ecosystem (for better or for worse there is just so much useful stuff). I have since moved over to Astro. It's still fascinating how far I was able to push my own SSG all by myself though.

"Lua: everything is a table

Tcl: everything is a string

Lisp: everything is a list"

Python: {"everything":"dictionary"}

That gradient tho

Very attractive art style and details. I found it nice that some of them have references as well!

> Clojure makes a big point of being a hosted language, that is, a language that runs on a premade runtime.

This is why I am found of the community, the symbiotic approach of two language communities working together.

With respect, this topic in particular has been beaten to death.

I too liked Clojure when I tried it some years ago (agreed on the composition and data structures; both are _great_). But the real value-add is in the runtime, not the syntax. Java has a solid runtime but it's not yet as good as Erlang's, maybe even not up to the standards of Golang -- I am talking concurrency / parallelism here (for memory management I have no doubts Java is very good). And I know: green threads and stuff. Well, call me when you can do what Erlang / Golang can do. Then I'll look again, very seriously too.

Programming language syntax scarcely matters. It does to some extent but we the programmers tend to over-romanticize it. The runtime and its properties are the much better thing to optimize for.

interesting.

;; This is real syntax!
    (loop for k being the hash-keys
          using (hash-value v) of hash-table
          ...)

Still lisp. Although the blog author has a point -
clojure is probably cleaner lisp than common lisp.

I think the issue is heavily due to syntax though.
Naturally the (())()()()(), but I think even aside
from the (), the syntax does not seem super-efficient
to me. Perhaps I have spent too much time with ruby
and python, but it feels as if lisp is a legacy
regression, purely syntax-wise.

Too Many Requests

The page you have tried to access is not available because the owner of the file you are trying to access has exceeded our short term bandwidth limits. Please try again shortly.
Details:

Actioning this file would cause "www.acdw.net//clojure/" to exceed the per-day file actions limit of 80000 actions, try again later

I spent a week with Clojure and coming from other functional languages my problem was not Clojure, it was dynamic typing. I got strange bugs in the standard library because I accidentally sent in nested incompatible instances of objects and it was really hard to figure out what was wrong in a quick way. With typesafe languages you are stopped at compile time.

Damn, I was on the site for good 5 mins, is my attention span healing?
Great info btw

> The seq abstraction, for example, means I usually don’t have to worry about what kind of sequence I’m dealing with

Eh? That's completely lifted from CL (https://www.lispworks.com/documentation/HyperSpec/Body/t_seq...). Same for AREF/NTH, there's ELT.

Other than that, I agree, CL is baroque yet needs some hole filling here and there.

> Lisp: everything is a list

But that's wrong. Not even a little. Unless you mean LISP 1.5...

> Too much syntax

Funnily, I'm mostly okay with the new vector/set/hash-table literals, my big problem and that of some other people is the use of vectors in macros/special operators instead of lists. `(let [a b] ...)` instead of `(let (a b) ...)` is _not_ okay.

HN hug of death?

> Too Many Requests

> The page you have tried to access is not available because the owner of the file you are trying to access has exceeded our short term bandwidth limits. Please try again shortly.

>

> Details:

> Actioning this file would cause "www.acdw.net//clojure/" to exceed the per-day file actions limit of 80000 actions, try again later

Even though it feels vibed, the information packed is very interesting

Once you learn Clojure's syntax and semantics, you're no longer bound to the JVM. There's ClojureScript (JS), ClojureCLR, ClojureDart, jank (C++), Basilisp (Python), babashka (SCI), and many others. This means that, if you don't know Java or don't like the JVM, you can likely use Clojure wherever you already feel most comfortable.

For the most part, any Clojure code which doesn't use host interop will work on all dialects. Clojure also has support for conditional code, depending on the current dialect.

This is one of Clojure's superpowers.

It’s a blueprint for regulatory capture, something both OpenAI and Anthropic need, in order to stay relevant. The actual doc linked in there talks about increasing the power of the Center for AI Standards and Innovation (CAISI), and having mandatory evaluations for “frontier” technology. The doc makes no mention of open source AI, privacy, freedom, or things like that.

Anthropic and OpenAI have no moats. All they can do is use fear and control to create moats.

This is vibecoded. How are we supposed to believe that any of the descriptions aren't hallucinated?

I absolutely love the design! Thanks for sharing

Cached: https://archive.ph/lzYld

I wonder if the author is familiar with Smalltalk - it has a very small syntax. In some ways so does Lisp, in other ways it has more than every other language, depending on what you think about operators versus functions.

https://archive.ph/r2aFV

The cattle classes can’t be permitted to have intelligence that isn’t controlled by and reporting to the ruling class.

The less OpenAI says out loud the better for everyone including themselves.

Thats nice but not many jobs for it

The functional paradigm is a bit uncomfortable at first, but it does make problem solving feel... different. I personally find OOP to be the most intuitive for large scale systems design, but that's just me.

Most models do not perform particularly well in Clojure, but OpenAI models fully utilize the power of the language. Subjectively, it kind of seems to match the personality. Data at https://gertlabs.com/rankings?provider=openai

> "I do wish there were an easier way to move in the ]}]})))}-ness of block ends though."

If he means navigating the AST, there is Parinfer: https://shaunlebron.github.io/parinfer/

Paredit / Parinfer ruined other languages for me. It lets you navigate up/down/in/out of the Clojure AST with keyboard commands and mutate those expressions, e.g. "Split" will split open the current data structure you're in: `(a| b)` =Split=> `(a)| (b)`, where | is caret. Join is the inverse, and it works for all data structures.

[dead]

Lovely. Great attention to detail and a brilliant resource for students.

some of those seem like only very vaguely related to types (binding, EULA). Maybe the author just asked some LLM to provide more filler.

But other than that, this is quite nice.

> I do wish there were an easier way to move in the ]}]})))}-ness of block ends though.

I’m not quite sure what this means. How is it different/worse than all parens..?

fyi I use paredit and just hit ) and it moves me past any kind of paren/bracket. But even without that you can just hit left and right..?

I am able to see the link just fine.

I love the slightly whimsical design of the site, clear as a children's book, or as a technical drafting.

[flagged]

Pretty nice. I been a type aficionado  since I was a kid. I loved taking elective typography in college, though my capstone typeface sucked pretty bad.

I was surprised not to see the word "stress" in there.

Somewhere in all this it is crazy that the choice could be between a US company creating an AI that could doom civilization or letting China create the AI that dooms civilization. Do we want to be the first to "summon the demon" in our own fashion or let China manifest it first. Not saying this is the choice, but it would be a crazy dillema, albeit easy choice imo, if it was.

This is the kind of advertising I can appreciate. Useful, even some uncommon information showcasing purchasable products.

I'd never buy a font advertised here (I've never needed a font that wasn't free bad enough to pay money for one), but it's pull, not push, so kudos.

Trump this, Trump that. Never Biden this, Biden that. His title is President, btw.

[flagged]

An executive order is not law. Why should any company submit their models for review?

No one should have to submit any published work to government review, even voluntary. This is a basic speech issue.

Absolutely no one would be okay with authors being 'encouraged' to submit their works to a 'voluntary' review by the feds to ascertain if their ideas are threatening. AI models are NO different.

[dead]

I guess it would help if they even knew what "AI" was.

> The final text asks some AI companies to submit their powerful new models to a voluntary government review 30 days before releasing the products to the public, a pause that would give federal agencies some time to gauge what threats the products may pose to sensitive financial, national security and other computer systems.

> An earlier draft of the order had called for a voluntary review as much as 90 days in advance, a provision that some AI industry officials had called too onerous, POLITICO reported last month.

A 90 days delay on the release of new models would have been insane. I guess I'm glad it's been revised at least on this specific point.

[dead]

[dead]

[dead]

BigAI contributions/bribes paying off

(probably a good thing, in this particular case)

Is this legally enforceable or is it nonsense via the White House site instead of Truth Social?

The Executive Order: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2026/06/prom...

IMO this isn't much more egregious than the "stop woke AI" executive order he signed in July 2025 which explicitly regulated the "ideology" of LLMs

https://www.paulhastings.com/insights/client-alerts/presiden...

There’ll be a movie written about all this someday. It’ll be great.

It's very simple, there is more incentive for money laundering than there is fighting it. It's the same reason there are more lawyers working for large companies vs small guys. The invisible hand that determines the structure of our society.

"The final text asks some AI companies to submit their powerful new models to a voluntary government review 30 days before releasing the products to the public, a pause that would give federal agencies some time to gauge what threats the products may pose to sensitive financial, national security and other computer systems."

How specifically does that review work? I want to give federal agency Opus 4.8 now, while 4.7 has been out for a while (leaving Mythos aside for now). They have 30 days to figure out whether it poses a threat.

How do you do that? Is there an eval for this and if there is why can't they just make it public? What is the agencies objective (but proprietary?) analysis here?

Why did they really do this?

So this is going back to the spirit of what the Biden admin and the frontier labs wanted just recently?

https://www.bis.gov/press-release/biden-harris-administratio...

More regulated rather than unregulated (or very lightly regulated).

Most people would probably say that’s a good thing, if I read the tea leaves correctly.

There doesn't really seem to be anything of substance in the actual executive order.

Section 1 doesn't say anything

Section 2 seems to boil down to: "improve cyber security and maybe use AI if we can find funding for it"

Section 3 proposes building a benchmark for evaluating cyber security performance of models that developers can choose to benchmark against. This seems like a good idea, I know Jack Clark has been a huge advocate for government's getting in with benchmarking.

Section 4 says to prioritize prosecuting cyber crimes. Not sure why they wouldn't already be prosecuted.

Section 5 doesn't say anything

A great reminder to use open standards for works you want to last longer than potato salad.

Seven years. I have documents several times older than that, and LibreOffice never mugs me.

The state's ability to track and criminalize people based on financial behaviors through deputized financial intermediaries is new, and temporary.

Outside of this social graph, where private cash transactions still exist, the state lacks power and relies on stigmatizing cash ownership, consumption, movement. This stigma is largely successful and ubiquitous but inconsequential to anybody that matters or has a lawyer of their own.

Electronic settlement of funds since the 1970s has allowed for the state to leverage financial institutions for records and enforcement. Electronic settlement without institutions since the 2010s removes that power from the government and is merely a reversion to the mean. Any delay in the prevalence of this is both user-error, social stigma, and a government's unfamiliarity with the reality that their own constitutions and documents that organize the state are things that have to be updated to actually remove an expectation of privacy from finance.

> We don’t know what successful money launderers are doing in the present moment. All we do know is what unsuccessful ones have been caught doing in the past.

One major and necessary fallacy inside the social graph is that electronic settlement between institutions assumes that the deputized institutions have blessed the funds and user as not money laundered. Only the user and who they transact with can trigger an investigation by the government at this point, by reporting the money for taxes or in a large withdrawal to cash out of the social graph, without further laundering it. This user error is mostly mitigated as soon as cross border payments are done, because the next financial institution doubly assumes funds from another country's banks are clean. The banks and sovereignty become the washing machine inside the electronic settlement system.

This is doubly important to realize, because it's the tip of the iceberg in brand sovereignty. One country's illegality is not another country's illegality.

You can't simultaneously be for a stigma against withdrawing large amounts of cash, while considering the Communist Party's capital controls to be oppressive. Removing one capital control, blesses the other.

This is a blind spot for most people, since they don't consider them to be the same things, but fortunately this cognitive dissonance highlights the reality. It is impossible to completely stigmatize and the capital routes around the stigma and all capital controls, unless the entire world is under a single totalitarian regime.

All while only the edges, moving between physical cash and electronic system, and moving cash between borders and the electronic system, are policed, in what could really only be the ultimate hubris of expecting the state to be involved at all.

And it's not just cash. Its assets too. The state is hoping for titled and electronic settlement of assets. In the last 30 years a systematic global dismantling of explicit "bearer assets" has been done, when the bearer assets were offered by the state. But this is also unsuccessful, as since the 2010s, the bearer assets created and settled without a financial intermediary have existed and been wildly popular.

All capital controls have been obsoleted while they were never fully implemented to begin with. No matter whether that's the idea of your neighbor holding a lot of physical cash, or a subject of the Communist Party in another country circumventing capital controls you consider oppressive.

This article covers the same points with a wildly contrived conclusion: To attempt to change anything in favor of the state being more effective at enforcing its invented crime of money laundering instead of curbing the actual illicit behaviors. For reasons that are assumed and unexplained, so it's impossible for me to change my view on. My view is simple - capital controls are dead and a waste of time. The article and both books it references actually agree on that. My other view is that the state should just do classic investigative work on illegal behaviors which means finding the people involved and subpoena-ing them, something it seems to have forgotten how to do in favor of relying on deputized intermediaries who are temporary, ineffective, and inconvenience just the law abiding.

Here are the last two sentences:

> Governments don’t do anything about the status quo, for a number of reasons: it inconveniences them to look too deeply into the darker corners of their own financial systems, and they make money from printing their own currencies and don’t much care how that cash is used. But most of all, they don’t do anything about it because they haven’t got a clue.

The last one couldn't be farther from the truth, and the first one couldn't be farther from a lie.

I always thought the TV show Ozark was fairly accurate in it's depiction of money laundering. The family would buy a small business that they could inject cash and cook the books with fake sales.

> I reckon the luxury watch trade is 80 per cent money laundering

Found this quote interesting given Europes richest person is the head of a luxury brand company.

I always wonder who was buying all this high end stuff - the concentration of wealth has created a more billionaires - but they aren't that many of them and there is only so many watches one person needs.

It also may explain why China is struggling to establish it's own luxury brands - the money laundering prefers that cross border flow.

So going forward expect US models to respond only in ways considered appropriate by the administration. If people thought models were producing slop before... lol.

Timing around Anthropic valuation crossing OpenAI and getting ready for IPO ...

Alternative to archive.ph

Disable Javascript and CSS

For example

   curl https://www.lrb.co.uk/the-paper/v48/n09/john-lanchester/squillions \
   |sed '1s/^//' > 1.htm
   firefox ./1.htm 

There are also Firefox add-ons that can do this as well

Or use a text-only browser

   links https://www.lrb.co.uk/the-paper/v48/n09/john-lanchester/squillions 
   links -dump https://www.lrb.co.uk/the-paper/v48/n09/john-lanchester/squillions

Step 1: Require companies to submit product for "review"

Step 2: Complain about how the OSS/Chinese/whatever models are doing releases without approval

Step 3: Prohibit, because "safety" and "financial risks"(?)

So this is the door-shutting Altman et al have been pushing for eh?

Th guy says that they don't know where the cash is so it is "obviously" used for money laundering...

But even for money laundering, the cash has to buy real things or it would be useless.

So a total sack of bullshit. The kind or lobbyist that are paid to propagate lies and fear in order to justify new regulations that they would like to pass to have more control. Might also really probably be pushed by a big electronic payment corporation or one of the big banks that would like to ensure to have the income of the electronic transactions and not the cost of managing cash.

All of Bullough's books are worth your time and variously go deeper into this very subject.

> “Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize the creation of a mandatory governmental licensing, preclearance, or permitting requirement for the development, publication, release, or distribution of new AI models, including frontier models.”

As other commenters have mentioned, it leaves the question what on earth this EO is actually good for. And still the AI industry is complaining about how onerous it is.

> It also directs the Justice Department to pursue criminal cases against any individuals who use AI models to hack into computer systems.

Were we not pursuing criminal cases against these individuals previously? Or have we only just decided to make crimes be against the law now?

Edit: let's all remember, by the way, this "review" period does nothing for security. It exists to allow members of the government to trade on insider knowledge.

In this day and age "money laundering" just means "not bending over and letting the state tax you to oblivion". TFA is just scare mongering.

People need to learn about Bitcoin.

So that the NSA can use them to find the zero-days first?

I guess I don't really understand it. I understand how a bank robbery leads to dirty money - the bank has the serial numbers.

In what way is money from selling drugs "dirty"? Why does it even need laundering?

In Italy there is a very aggressive law against money laundering: if you withdraw more than 1k cash, it triggers a call to the police.
I know it's the same if you do it over multiple days.

I think it has been relaxed a little bit later on, but in Italy everybody does the "I'll charge you X less without VAT" (which is 23% in Italy, I should point out), so this is also fighting that.

POSWID* says that money laundering laws are intended mostly to keep the proles and other people within the system honest, while providing a clean and easy system for people with enough money or cachet to bypass it.

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_purpose_of_a_system_is_wha...

Unrelated, but I love finding lower-case numbers in the wild!

(Note the two and the zeros in “$20 billion to $80 billion.”)

It amuses me to see so much fuss about US $100 bill, considering that it's today's buying power is merely that of US $50 in 1970.

Aside: The author of this article wrote a fantastic novel that not a lot of people know about called “The Debt to Pleasure”.  One of the best instances of the “unreliable narrator” I’ve ever read.

" Bullough gives the example of a Mexican drug dealer who smuggles product across the border to the US. The drug in question would once have been marijuana, then cocaine, and is now likely to be fentanyl, which is cheap to manufacture and easy to conceal. The drugs are sold in the US for cash, which is used to buy, say, agricultural equipment. "

Wouldn't the person buying the tractor in the US for $$$ have to show where that money came from? Can you show up to John Deere with over a million dollars _in cash_?

Nowadays banks spy on normal people in the disguise of reporting to government about illegal activity. The people who are in the illegal game always have their own ways to hide money and that is so sophisticated that no one can know they have that much money so the spying only de-anonymize the common peoples.

People do think bitcoin as option but nothing is private they also can be tracked by chainalysis.com

One thing i know is private is Monero and its heavily censored and its not easy to get as of i know

The true crime is involving a multinational corporation in a transaction between two private individuals at the local market.

I like cash because it's direct, and where possible I avoid paying by card because I don't want the merchant to pay fees to third parties.

In Europe, most of the time, using cash doesn't imply avoiding taxes on the transaction, but having cash is essentially sovereignty.

How can one write about money laundering without talking about crypto currencies ?

Here's an anecdotal thought: AML laws surprisingly work well to discourage offline transactions by tax-paying citizens, helping maximize tax reporting and improve tax collection. As a result, governments continue to strengthen and expand laws in that direction.

First off, money laundering does not require cash. So the premise is a bit strange.

Second, I submit that money laundering should not be considered a crime at all. Monitoring it (for example, banks required to report large cash transactions to the government) just leads to mass surveillance of innocent people.

Transferring money from A to B - why should that be a crime? The point of anti-money-laundering laws is that the money generated at point A may have been generated illegally. It isn't the money transfer that is the problem, it is the illegal activity. The police need to put in the effort to prosecute that illegal activity.

This is reminiscent of the continual pressure to break end-to-end encryption. The police want an easy way to do their (admittedly difficult) job. But the price is just too high: mass surveillance, and many false positives, affecting the general populace.

The writer argues that since $100 bills aren't much used in daily commerce, the 80% of circulating paper money in $100s must be used for crime.  But it is obviously predominantly hoards.  I know US $ are hoarded all across Latin America, and assume it is so elsewhere.  Even in USA keeping them somewhere secure is a sort of hedge against banking collapse, if not against 'collapse of the dollar'. It is like gold or anything else.

No apriori principle can tell you what the ratio of 'genuinely circulating' to hoarded money should be.  When money was gold or silver, as Bagehot says, the hoards in e.g. France were huge, but those in Scotland, where there was enthusiasm for the banks, were tiny.

I learned a lot about the AML system many years ago and still have some books about how it works on my bookshelf. It's fascinating stuff.

A few minor comments.

My wife and I have owned and used 1000 CHF notes quite a few times in the past. The last two times we moved apartments I paid part of the moving fee with a 1000 CHF note. We've also bought furniture this way. Nobody was surprised to see this and the notes were accepted without question or comment. To a person who spent their life in Britain this sounds absurd because the British government has - true to form - been trying to wipe cash out for many years to improve surveillance. You can't get any high value notes there, they just don't exist, because the state assumes that anything it can't see must automatically be suspicious. And there's so much street crime, and the police care so little about burglary, it would be very dangerous to hold such notes. But in Switzerland it's safe and the government doesn't try to wipe cash out, so paying with high value notes is common. (Although bank notes are in no way as private as people assume and can be tracked quite well, because they don't tend to circulate far.) This situation makes a mockery of the recommendation to fight crime by removing high value bank notes. The UK did this already and ML is out of control there: criminals just don't care.

I looked into the case of George Cottrell once. The case against Cottrell collapsed because it was founded on entrapment (the eight months was a plea deal in the usual American fashion, and doesn't mean much). It boiled down to undercover FBI agents asking Cottrell, "how could we launder money" and he explained how to do it, in the way anyone familiar with the topic could. He didn't make any offers to actually do it, didn't do it, and that's why "could be jailed for up to 20 years" turned into an eight month plea bargain to let prosecutors save face. Then after he was released he trolled US LE by writing a book called "How to launder money". Usually not given is the subtitle: "A guide for law enforcement and politicians". It's not written for criminals but people love to omit that detail.

Carousel fraud in the EU is a huge problem that governments hate to talk about because they don't know how to fix it and fear that by talking about it, they'll just teach more people how to do it. It's an infinite money glitch but in the real world. It's interesting that the UK thinks they solved it. I suspect they didn't, rather, enforcement collapsed elsewhere and it became easier to just go back to other ways of scamming the government.

[dead]

my avg was around 2% not able to do more than that lol

> I haven’t even mentioned gold, which is used all the time in criminal transactions, let alone cryptocurrency, the single biggest recent innovation in money laundering.

Curious how that line is received within the HN crowd.

love it, pulls you in after a first try)

pretty fun!

my best is 0.08%

Love how simple it is.

The low contrast of this website hurts my eyeball

i got a 0.00% after 3 tries!

Simple premise, oddly hard to put down.

This seems like a nice therapeutic application. Something a person or practitioner could say, “Sit down and play this for 5 minutes to calm your mind.”

i made 0.87%

I didn't think I'd be any good at this.  What I didn't expect is how wildly inaccurate I'd be on every single goddamn attempt lmao it's like I completely lack whatever part of your brain is required to do this

Would love a time trial mode

this was fun

Very cool

Well I suck.

really cool! enjoy the simple premise but very satisfying

I got a perfect "off by 4" on the first try! I feel like I've accomplished something!

800

0 out of 1,600

I still missed. Even when there was centered text.

Maybe the human is the weakest link

Suggestion: make timed tracks - like a sequence of 10 turns, within max 60/30/15s or something.

this is fun!

Definitely need an iOS version! An angle version on a circle would be nice too.

10 perfect hits in a row!

...

handleClick({clientX: els.bar.getBoundingClientRect().left + els.bar.getBoundingClientRect().width / state.n * state.target })

Really fun! I am pretty much blind

This is wild. 
Got hooked into it pretty fast

My best on first attempt was 0.00% (Pure coincidence) . But was fun!

this is fun and helping me get grounded :). adding a timer would be a good idea, I think.

10 round avg 4.5%.

A time limit would make sense imho. For extra challenge, add diagonal or curved lines.

I am amazed how such a simple app gets that much attention , whereas probably it is vibe coded in an hour using Claude or any other AI tool .

Oh, this is actually fun! How about if you change the target every few seconds to add a bit of pressure.

I thought I was going to be really good at this but turns out I'm surprisingly bad. Cool idea.

I find it very easy if it's near 50%, 10%, or 5%.

Presumably I'd do just as well visually near 90 and 95 as near 10 and 5, the difference is in the first stage, estimating the percentage.

This is fun but you need to put "click the line" higher on the page. It took me a while to figure out what I was looking at.

0.11% by luck, because I actually got lucky the target number was too close to zero, out of a big scale.

Got a perfect result for the first try. (Off by zero.) Not trying again. :)

The fact that the numbers are in a brighter color than the end marks, and that the numbers go inwards, makes it slightly more difficult than it would otherwise be, because the eye is biased by the more prominent space between the numbers being different from the line between the marks.

Nice! Would be nice to see your progress over time (if you got better, also as a function of speed...)

I was 0.67% off on eyeball. Beat me: https://eyeball.rory.codes

Great idea! Have you considered storing triplets  for each try and making image plots of these (x/y coordinates are correct/selected numbers, color of each pixel represents frequency) for multiple users for each range? I think the image might reveal interesting properties of human eyeballing, like near-perfect accuracy around 50%, but with less obvious correlations.

https://eyeball.rory.codes/
I was 0.20% off on eyeball. Beat me: https://eyeball.rory.codes

I love these kind ones! Really engaging also yes as someone commented, the training mode would be an awesome idea.

Also, I tried this on laptop as well as my phone, I liked it more on my phone (I know the whole point is about precision though)

[flagged]

> It just requires being aware of a few differences between the Mach-O and ELF ABIs, as well as knowing what Apple-specific syntax extensions to avoid.

And completely ignoring PE and Windows on ARM.

Love it!

It would be great to have a 'training' mode, where you get to repeat ones you miss. This would increase the learning speed.

Easy training- repeat the one you just borked
Medium training- cycles through say 5 examples until you get all five within your target range (1%, 0.1%, whatever)

Assembly was never portable, or do you think 6502 on Apple would work out of the box in a Gameboy or C64?

A modern take on Matthias Wandel's classic [0], which has you guess a variety of geometric attributes (e.g. angle bisection, centroid locating, shape regularization), not just simple partitioning of a line.

[0] https://woodgears.ca/eyeball/index.html

I have so many ifdef __APPLE__ hacks in my assembler/compiler. And they are much harder to fix when I had no Apple Silicon available, only github actions and some models and gas sources.

But basically it's similar to elf vs coff. windows also uses several modern alignments and a shadow stack to make life easier. But arm has so much more scratch registers, much more fun.

I was 0.06% off on eyeball. Beat me: https://eyeball.rory.codes.

This is fun!

Note the "share" link doesn't share a specific challenge for others to try, which would be much cooler, instead it just shares to main page

I love these simple games that take 2 seconds to understand the rules.

Off by 6 on my iPad by mis-clicking. Very satisfying!

It's interesting that there are, at the time I'm commenting, 11 new users commenting on this submission, some commenting multiple times. I wonder what the effect of "share my score" type pages have on account creation.

ORPort is not reachable in x86_64 arm overlay network.

How is this code portable to other platforms if it assumes that clang implies macOS?

Fun. Got a streak of 4 and one of them was perfect (nearly .10% of target).

It's a bit of a cheat, but you can hit 0.00% every time. Just measure the bar length, then cross-multiply. :)

Example: bar is 1250px, max is 2100, number is 376 → (1250 × 376) / 2100 ≈ 223.8px from the start, that's the 0.00%.

Cool idea, love how simple it is. Minimal and clean.

> You will also need to be aware of minor differences between the Darwin ABI and other platform ABIs. A notable example is that the x18 register is reserved by the Darwin ABI and is explicitly zeroed on context switches in some cases. This register is also reserved on Android, but not on GNU/Linux or Alpine.

x18 is "the platform register", reserved for the OS. The ISA manual says not to touch it unless you know what you're doing. Also, I don't know but I could believe that android and non-googly linux use different ABIs (but probably not because everyone uses pretty much the same ABI on aarch64 from what I've seen), but surely Alpine is linux and has the same ABI as other linuxes.

I thought this was a random guessing game and kept randomly clicking and felt very frustrated. Once I realized how it works with the two numbers, estimating felt a lot more rewarding.

Cannot agree more. At every single company I’ve worked, there have always been patch sets that were maintained to fix issues that wouldn’t be accepted upstream. This however, does not absolve the upstream maintainer. Striking the balance is essential.

KA9Q?

This is very cool and fun. Thank you.

Pastebin links here in case someone's getting Vogons issues.

https://pastebin.com/9sgW9dVu
https://pastebin.com/3rG2eiWD

I seriously wonder how many APICs are exposed in the DOSBOX code even... Would be a fun exercise to do this and wake up real mode on all cores. I know it's easy to get to long mode after that:

https://github.com/guilt/KOS/blob/master/os/src/x86/realprot...

Well, according to the legend the main reason for MS-DOS 4.x failure was the attempt to rewrite it to be multitasking proper.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MS-DOS_4.0_(multitasking)

> ERR_HTTP2_PROTOCOL_ERROR

Hm?

Super cool stuff!

Certainly if you do not call out to DOS or the BIOS!  All the time with DOS we would write text to the screen by writing it into memory because it was so fast and if you wrote a terminal emulator you would catch the interrupts and write to the UART registers in assembly or C or Turbo Pascal.  You only needed DOS for the filesystem otherwise the application could do anything that DOS could do.

Old versions of Linux had a giant lock on the whole kernel which would let only one CPU enter the kernel at once.  You could probability protect DOS the same way at the cost of scalability.

> When Debian or a Linux distribution ships a dependency they take responsibility of it. If there is a security issue and it’s not fixed by the developer upstream, they fix it for their users.

Do they?

In my experience a large bunch of packagers are fairly absent, with their patches often causing more issues than they solve and them offering essentially zero support. Want to file a bug report? The Ubuntu packager doesn't respond, the Debian packager isn't interested because you're not using the Debian version, and the upstream packager closes it as "can't reproduce" because the issue doesn't happen with the original source - provided it wasn't already fixed five releases ago, of course.

I've submitted full bug reports with patches fixing them to Ubuntu, just to see it get automatically closed a couple of years later as the version is no longer supported. Nobody ever looked at it. Using self-compiled upstream code and hitting an issue? When I file a bug report directly upstream it's not uncommon to get a fix a day or two later.

There's a reason Flatpak & friends have gotten so popular: a lot of people just want the upstream version. No weird patches or changes, no ancient versions staying around because some new dependency hasn't been packaged yet.

Obviously we shouldn't be harassing upstream developers for not writing patches fast enough, but let's not pretend that the traditional packaging system was/is perfect: it works fairly well for the base system, but it falls apart pretty quickly when it comes to more obscure packages.

They lost me at subscription hell. Thanks, won’t touch this shit with a ten foot pole.

People who are interested in DOS software might take note of "Pits", a DOS assembler demo from 2024 which features, quote:

    - Multithreading (using all hyper-threads / CPU cores)
    - Video mode up to Full HD (1920x1080 / 16 bpp)
    - 64-iterative ray-casting
    - Pure DOS with Protected Mode (no drivers, no DPMI)

https://www.pouet.net/prod.php?which=96532

It is a seriously technically impressive demo, if not being the most visually impressive.

[dead]

Well, even so, multicore nowadays is supposedly just running the kernel over different CPUs by treating each CPU as its independent computer, and use a message box to deliver event messages, that's how x86 works with APIC and SIPI

[flagged]

[dead]

[flagged]

I wouldn't necessarily call this "support" because DOS itself does nothing for or against; and "all" you need to do conceptually is tickle the APIC to get the other cores running, something that can be done easily even in flat real mode (but this sample appears to use DPMI, so protected mode --- and DPMI itself begins to contain the elements of an OS.)

Not surprised to see the German comments; a lot of low-level PC stuff came from there in the 80s and 90s.

now I have a moral reason (in addition to clear engineering reasons) to never use Flux!

So this seems to be a mystery binary someone found on a company DVD, that runs DOS on one core and runs another core with code but no interrupts etc. Fascinating.

The thread later mentions a second way to do it.

In this setup, how would cross-core communication work, including cross-thread? On DOS is there even the concept of threads, or would an app using this have to invent user-mode thread objects and scheduling?

>The letter further asserts claims under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. Adafruit accessed only information that Flux’s own systems made publicly available through a server misconfiguration

A confession

I hadn’t even heard of flux.ai til now. Going to give it a spin tonight.

[flagged]

Flux.ai offers a PCB design solution which is a clear interest for Adafruit.  Anyone have any idea what this is about?

Suing the industry won't win them customers/friends.

Extremely embarrassing for my country that this is what the FBI is spending time on.

Despite the lack of context (as is expected when gangsters like Fenwick and West get involved -- i've gotten letters from them), I will throw my lot in with Adafruit. The people who run Adafruit have been nothing but upstanding and reasonable the entire time that business has existed. I'm willing to bet that they are in the right knowing only that -- it is enough.

Are there any AI tools that can create quality PCB work yet?

Flux.ai is probably trying to hide the fact their product does not do what it says it does and they're basically scamming you out of your money (won't even refund you for prompts that did not do what they said they would do.) The entire thing was trash when I tried it two years ago and it's still very much trash now, not even able to do a basic TSOP LED driver without you needing to spend hundreds of dollars to correct its mistakes.

I tried flux and it was a total waste of time. I get the idea it’s for rank beginners, maybe it’s useful at that level?

Honestly, I haven’t seen an autorouter that doesn’t take at least as much time as it takes to do it by hand to sort out the results.  But then I’m also not paying thousands for premium tools, so???

I find that with some experience, routing and placement is kinda the fun part..

For anyone that has been missing the memo on how to become rich:

1. Make a slop machine that's a wrapper around another slop machine like claude, openai, google or whatever.

2. Hire a lawyer to send threatening emails to anyone that might call you out.

3. Get a few investors that are completely clueless to throw a ton of cash at you for having ai in your product.

4. Profit.

Honestly, get a hold of Louis Rossmann, this shit needs to stop.

> Adafruit accessed only information that Flux’s own systems made publicly available through a server misconfiguration.

Did they access it knowing that there was a server misconfiguration or was this only learned of after the fact? Because Computer Fraud and Abuse is pretty serious.

SICP Erlang on cargo-fuzzed 
relay.

I previously had a passing interest in Flux, now I'm certain it's a fraud.

I was surprised they didn't publish the text of the demand letter verbatim.

Had anyone tried AutoPCB (https://autopcb.app/) instead?

Seems especially useful when paired with an agentic coding tool!

I love the transparency that Adafruit is proving on this.

This whole think is crazy. We’re being expected to pay to develop their tools which quite frankly are fairly poor. 
I’m sure at some point they will get better but like the AI code, its volume over quantity. Code and PCB design is part science and part art. The AI boy do neither well.
I have had several frustrating sessions trying to explain a simple concept to it and burning through tokens to do something an intern would be able to do in an hour.
For code it’s a good sounding board and for PCB’s it’s a waste of a good designers time.
And if you point this out? A desist letter..  that says to me they know the systems are floored, buggy and not value for money..

Why do we tolerate this bullying and misconduct from companies that harms us and progress overall? Is there really no solution in this day and age for harmful behavior and aggression and hostility like what it looks like Flux is doing here? I can't believe we don't have an answer, I think it's just that the bad guys are drowning us in noise and making it hard for us to identify the solutions where we band together a la David v Goliath against them.

What's the context here?

Never heard of Flux.ai before. It seems to be a 3D circuit designer with 'AI'.

Not sure what the issue between them and Adafruit is.
However, people over on Reddit¹ claim that Flux.ai is a little bit scummy. They  push users into a beginner trial ($5/month) and then silently charge for usage per token - up to $100 per month.

Oh, they also claim that they have "the world's largest community-driven public library of Adafruit products, including footprints, symbols, datasheets, and simulation models"². I wonder whether they designed these themselves or whether they use existing ones. Could not easily find licenses info.

¹) https://www.reddit.com/r/PCB/comments/18o5zfo/thoughts_on_fl...

²) https://www.flux.ai/sitemap/manufacturers/adafruit

Struck a nerve, but I wouldn’t back down. If they do take you to court, there’s this wonderful thing called discovery.

I wanted to love flux.ai because i love codex... and if i could automate the creation of some PCB projects with as much success as I am with codex it would have been quiet fun in the shop... so i gave them a $100~ bucks and i got like nothing in return so I decided i'd wait and see... sounds like it has not improved.

First I'm hearing of flux.ai and now my opinion of them is entirely negative because they hate free speech!

I'm not sure if this was Flux, but one of those AI EDA tool companies had a somewhat absurd ad where the narrator stated the AI tool told them a capacitor was being used to block DC, and that's something they never learned while getting an EE degree. Now, I don't have an EE degree, but I feel like how capacitors interact with AC and DC are sort of "passive components 101" that even hobbyists learn quite early on.

The EDA space doesn't strike me as being anywhere near as SWE when it comes to AI.

> Adafruit’s reporting concerns a matter of public security interest and was conducted in the ordinary course of responsible disclosure

This is pretty great, in the sense that I'm now very aware I should avoid Flux.ai at all costs, and should recommend to others that they do the same.

> Adafruit accessed only information that Flux’s own systems made publicly available through a server misconfiguration

Does anyone have some more context about what happened here? An uncharitable analogy might be that I misconfigured my front door by not locking it, which doesn't give someone the right to walk in and look around - but I have no idea what Adafruit is specifically being accused of doing.

For those interested in leveraging AI to build circuit boards, check out https://tscircuit.com/

I have no affiliation to the project, just someone that's done some hobby PCB design in the past and a couple weeks ago was exploring what's available in age of AI. Flux looked expensive and unimpressive. While it definitely burned through some tokens, I was able to get a seemingly functional PCB meeting my design requirements and was able to iterate on it using my existing Claude code subscription. I did use Gemini for some of the initial design research and parts selection since I find its search a bit better, but was overall impressed. I think with some tuning of the Claude skills to have it do a bit less guess-and-check it could be a nice workflow. Definitely better than the either really dated or really expensive PCB design tools in the market.

Note that this is not related to Black Forest Labs Flux, the image synthesis models builders, and is instead related to a PCB AI authoring product called Flux.ai.

Had no idea about this. Now I do.

Thank you, lawyers. If you ever find yourself out of work use this as your reference to pivot to advertisement

hi everyone, phil and limor here, any questions for now, email press@adafruit.com

limor and i are very much looking forward to telling our story.

Adafruit probably did a review of AI PCB tools. I've used Flux.ai before; it was a pretty bad experience. After about 50-100$ in tokens a couple of times, I couldn't get more than a couple of simple components on the schematic. And not in sensible positions.

The product just grinds tokens for little return, in my opinion. I had far better luck wiring together KiCad MCP, SKIDL. There are some AI-driven autorouters out there now. Placement is probably the big issue that needs to be solved now. I could only get about 80% of what I wanted together with my hacky workflow.

Looks like Flux.ai got some publicity out of this. Maybe not the kind they wanted - after reading this thread, I'll sure never give them a dime.

But people want a GoPro, and people hate AI. It's like the market isn't listening or something.

From what I can tell, the message is

When you discover an exploit, only communicate with source (and pray they respond) or get sued. Seems like the position is customers and stakeholders shouldn't be allowed access to this information.

As an electrical engineer who has tried to use it multiple times, I think Flux is an absolutely awful product. No surprise at all that they want to sweep details about their “intellectual property, commercial traction and user base” under the rug.

They may need to expand their marketing past red bull. Perhaps gardeners, home builders and landscapers. Maybe come up with a marketing package where you can buy a gopro and get a youtube video boost via a YouTube GoPro + Creator video drop (one per purchase).

hi everyone, its me 'ladyada. we're very much looking forward to telling our story, i have reached out to the founder of flux.ai (Matthias Wagner - Founder & CEO at Flux), in hopes we can resolve this together and set a good example for the community. looking forward to maybe seeing this resolved on a podcast together, or something

Unfortunately I feel this was inevitable as GoPro did not stay on top of hardware design.

DJI and Insta360 offer compelling products. And budget, lower quality 1080p-4k action cams got eaten by Akaso and other clones.

Flux just got funding from Bain and others, and it feels like Adafruit was preparing a post about it. Maybe they contacted Flux to confirm some info and they freaked out?

I can't find in archive.org if they had a previous post about it.

Also, seems like there a good bunch of complains in Reddit about Flux and its billing...

https://old.reddit.com/r/PCB/comments/1t476x4/warning_fluxai...

GoPro has had two years of falling revenue. While I’m sure the memory shortage isn’t helping their profits I’m not sure it is entirely to blame for continued falling revenue.

I don't care so much about GoPro. I am worried about Fujifilm though, they seem on the cusp of a golden era.

Weird case of the software letting the hardware down. You did the hard part guys!

Why do posters insist on changing the title of things?

realistically most gopros ever sold are collecting dust in some drawer, and if you have a GoPro 5 from 10 years ago that does 4K video, there isn't really a need to keep buying new ones ...

The issue with GoPro was that they did not know what business they were actually in. They created a new camera hardware segment and became experts at it. Then they decided that they had to pivot to a media platform. That was a dumb move that destroyed shareholder value. They also failed to differentiate from smartphones and cheaper cameras by innovating and/or moving upmarket.

This is also a lesson in failed leadership. Woodman is a CEO who founded the company. He has a controlling share and has never had to answer to a real board in his tenure. The company lost 99% of its value from its peak under him. The brand might still have value but his legacy is basically a Greek tragedy.

Looking forward to no firmware updates and getting locked out of cloud hosted features.

No sympathy from me. I have a GoPro Hero11 Black and it's easily the worst camera product I've ever used.

Damn thing overheats constantly. 4K60 never works for more than 15-or-so minutes even with an AC vent aimed directly at it. 1080p60 is its limit for any long-duration recording, and even then it still overheats from time to time if I'm in a particularly hot environment. Made me realize why so much of their marketing shows it being used underwater and skydiving lol

Good riddance, GoPro squandered their market lead for many years and shipped bafflingly mediocre software that seemed to add more bugs with every generation.

I hope Insta360, DJI, and many more competitors spring up out of their ashes. Assuming fast microsd cards for writes, how much DDR RAM do they really need to buffer videos during recording? 4gb? 8gb?

Curious parallel to iRobot (Roomba): first mover in new product segment, became genericized name for things in that segment, in the end, (possibly in GoPro's case) could not compete in that segment

Lots of bashing here so I feel compelled to say my piece that GoPros, despite their flaws, are still the best action camera in the market for many people, including me. They have a powerful set of customizations simple not possible on the their competitors via the Labs firmware. Not that DJI couldn't do that if they wanted to, but to this day, they don't.

there is a satirical play, called "Goethe im Examen" (Goethe in exams) by Egon Friedell and Alfred Polgar, where Goethe has to answer questions about his life and fails miserably. One of the questions he is asked, is:  what Goethes main achievement is and he answers "Farwelehr" (theory of colors) which, of course, is not the right answer, at least not for the professors. it tells us much about how he was perceived by literature professors but he himself might not have had the same perception of himself. unfortunately this play is only on the German WP: https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goethe_im_Examen

They certainly wouldn't survive if capitalism was working as intended. GoPro is one of the most institutionally arrogant companies around, they seem unable to understand that they have competition. (Which to be fair they absolutely didn't for the first few years of their existence). In 2026 they make a mediocre product with horrible software, and even worse customer service.

In contrast, I've smashed the absolute shit out of my insta360 lenses 3 times now (total cost to replace lens 3x $50), and when I smashed the screen to smithereens, they fixed it, OUT OF WARRANTY, for $50 including parts and labor, and they paid for shipping.

There is zero reason to buy a gopro, they don't have a single compelling product and HOLY FUCK the software is bad compared to insta360.

And they just released a cool camera too one with detachable lens

The physical buttons on a GoPro are frustrating to use: hold down or continuously press or press once. No thanks.

The software is bad too: WiFi hotspot that disconnects from your usual phone WiFi. Now sync to the app. Nag about a cloud subscription. Now choose photos and sync to your phone gallery.  No thanks.

Given how underwhelming (photo/video influencer ad "reviews" aside) the new over-hyped models they released are, they should not survive.

I honestly thought GoPro and FitBit had both been stomped out a long time ago, and we were just watching new companies brand-squatting.

Can anyone explain the financials involved why this brand, worth so little in market cap, but brand value definitely a lot more than that assumes it is; isn't just swallowed up like a Fitbit?

Stopped reading when this turned into a 'look I got AI to do this thing' article.

"Recovering"...from an ADF file that was already on IA, which many tools already exist to work with, both native Amiga tools and other-platform tools.

This blog post should be titled "Extracting files from an Amiga disk image with generative AI Python"

i may be hallucinating this memory, but I'd swear the source was published in a magazine back in the day and i had this one

Didn't expect a stealth ad at the end there.

I understand that this is frustrating for people who mostly write thoughtful emails. But personally I use gmail for exactly the following things: account recovery, system notifications, and b2b email threads. For the latter, I really couldn't care less about form or shape. It's a tool to an end, to get a point across. I found the auto writing stuff pretty useless so far (suggestions change the intended tone or even meaning of the email) but summaries are very useful to get a grip what happened in a larger thread which I should only know the gist of anyway.

I might be in the minority but to me email is an annoying requirement to reach out to people, and that is not due to the AI tools, it's due to: thread management, the horrible noise of unasked for newsletter, and system messages and updates I theoretically do care about but that are just inconsistently formatted and badly listed. I welcome AI giving me a better overview over what's going on than what I myself have.

Seems silly to upend your entire account. Just use a different email client. Email protocol was designed specifically so you could do that, anytime you want.

Dupe: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48341578

[flagged]

Maybe ot is just me, but gmail users can go.. [fill the blank]. It is one thing to not value your own privacy, but not valuing that of other people is unacceptable.

Sure using the mysteriously free webmail client of that ad-company may be convenient, but the people who have to interact with you (or with whom you chose to interact) did maybe not make that choice. Forcing on them is not only rude, it should be illegal.

I am not saying you need to run your own mailserver (although I do, mailcow is great), but maybe paying for an email service that respects your another peoples privacy makes sense in a world where a single email is the key to your kingdom.

And I say that because AI that writes responses has to read your mails first. I am sure Google won't use that gathered information for any other purpose than suggesting a reply. /s

[dead]

[flagged]

[flagged]

[flagged]

[dead]

[dead]

[flagged]

[dead]

[dead]

[dead]

[dead]

[dead]

[dead]

It still amazes me that Google and Microsoft and most of the rest of the "AI-first" companies continue to believe that shoving AI down our throats will eventually cause us to like it.

I've never been waterboarded, but I'm pretty sure that if somebody ever waterboarded me I wouldn't drink water for the rest of my life.

> I think we’re all used to user-hostile software these days, but this is the first time I’ve experienced software that feels like it’s actively trying to be disrespectful.

Always wild to hear people say stuff like this.  First, all user-hostility is clearly disrespectful by definition.  Second, almost all software, even the free stuff, is insanely user-hostile.  We are all so completely frog-boiled on this it's not even funny.  Yes, even people in tech and maybe especially people in tech.

Everyone reading this has probably used 10 applications today that are completely ignoring instructions to disable updates/telemetry if they even bothered to lie to you that this is possible.  IOS has years-old "bugs" where turning off voice control isn't actually possible, official docs are gas-lighting you, and the settings are just ignored.. so people just deal with paused music that inconsistently triggers on 1/5 of your sneezes or coughs and get used to it.  Spotify performance/ux/sanity has been completely degraded for months now.  Web-browsers routinely force updates to require multi-gig downloads of AI models, and before that, they had on-and-off regressions in basic stuff like copy/paste for multiple years.  Your popup-blocker that helps you to stay sane feels fine about popping up some shit that tells you how many pop-ups it freaking blocked.  This is just my last 10 minutes.  You can dig into any one of these problems, lose 45m on some janky fix, and also know for sure that you'll need to spend the same effort on some related goddamned problem less than a week later.

Besides the "ads for paying customers" type of stuff, this drip-drip of millions and millions of little points of persistent friction never stops.  You think you broke it or you are going crazy until you deep-dive the bug reports or the reddit threads and realize it's all gas-lighting, and someone has made a choice.  If the choice wasn't about disrespectful surveillance, auto-updates, or profit-maxxing enshittification then it's a greenhorn developer refactoring something for devx or aesthetics over UX, and the breakage didn't even happen in service of a real feature.

You try to freeze the apps with snap or containers or whatever for some stability hoping to GTFO the fix-it-again treadmill. You assert proudly that "Computers work for me, I don't work for them!" It's smoother for a while but there's always something.  A phone-home with a suddenly bad endpoint, a missing remote tag/version gets yanked, or the operating system itself will betray you with yet-another iteration of unnecessary path-changing nonsense that breaks everything anyway.

Although they are opposites in every other way, Linus and Bezos may be the last living bosses that valued stability, backwards compatibility, and not fucking up shit that works fine.  When they are gone god help us all.

Google/Alphabet collects massive amounts of information on us, for commercial and US-governmental purposes. It's good that Jerremy has dropped GMail - but he  should not have adopted it in the first place. Large commercial corporations (especially though not only in the US) should not be entrusted with so many people's private mailboxes and communications, nor subsube so much of people's activity on the Internet.

Unfortunately - one can't really leave GMail until others leave as well, in that Google will still have a copy of all of our email exchange with people who still use GMail.

It doesn't matter whether Google thinks we're stupid or not - it's always thought we are suckerds, and to a great extent, we are.

Anyway, friends shouldn't let friends use GMail. Try any number of email service providers. I personally like Proton Mail (https://proton.me/mail) as far as privacy-minded webmail goes, but it doesn't have to be, nor should it be, one provider for everyone.

What I fucking hate more than anything else is this new nonsense about me approaching the 15 GB limit and then when I want to clean things up, it has zero tools that make any sense. Like just let me sort all of my messages with the largest sized messages on top. Instead it gives me some random selection of messages of varying sizes, most less than 1 MB. You cannot sort it in anyway. Horrible. Horrible I am so angry.

Google, if you’re listening, the only thing I need in the cleanup tool is a sort all mails by size option. That’s it. Just put the biggest one on top and sort down from there.

I am also considering leaving Gmail over the blue squiggly lines trying to tell me how to "improve" my phrasing.

I like the nuance my words convey, Google.

I don't need to sound like an LLM with no sense of personality. My phrasing is chosen very deliberately to draw a very precise picture. I don't appreciate you trying to blur it.

> The message you’re sending is that you think I’m not capable of reading and writing my own emails.

I mean… this is probably true for a great number of people. Perhaps the majority and they are statistically correct to assume.

But yes, fuck Gmail pushing this shit so hard by default.

I host my own email with my custom fronend.

I use LLM to summarize the emails I receive. Now instead of a full page full of graphics and shit, I get one-liners like "$100 charge on your Costco card at X on 1/1/2026 1:35pm"

Also when I click "spam" on a sender, a domain, or an intermediate and the message goes to spam from then on. Not like gmail who I have to click "unsubscribe" and "spam" 100 times and still the email finds it's way to my inbox.

it needs phone number

So much like Clippy.

for the past decade you should have been using gmail with all the "smart" features turned off.

Llm…………

now you have clojure. good.

> I’m interested in what other people in a similar position have done.

I have left Gmail (everything Google, really, that was the last one) years ago when they went back on their word of grandfathered lifetime access to a free email inbox with a custom domain. They did go back on that going back near the end of the deadline, but by then I had already deleted my account.

I switched to iCloud+, because it was the cheapest option I found (0.99€/month) and it includes other niceties such as 50GB iCloud Drive storage, iCloud Private Relay, and Hide My Email. So far, no regrets. It may not have all the features of other email hosts, but it’s enough for my needs and the price with the extras make up for it.

100%

Sorry to say, but good luck, because deliverability would very likely drop after leaving Google Workspace.

(But yes, AI features are annoying and intrusive at times.)

Does anyone know uptake rates for these features? Are they actually hated? Or just hated by a vocal minority?

Someone is having a case of the Mondays!

My brain immediately fills in the whole story that happens after this.

1. Someone links this post in an internal Slack-like app to relevant PMs and designers.

2. Someone in leadership respond "dang we should look at this deluge of CTAs". In doing this they pretend as though it's new information that people didn't have until now, since that avoids anyone being responsible, even though every single engineer and the designers that still have their idealism are full aware of it.

3. Some PM is assigned a project of cleaning up CTAs, which they half-heartedly do, and the situation is slightly better afterwards, although nobody is accountable or really cares and the same problem will happen again for the next round of launches, since everyone's OKRs are tied to getting users NOW and CTAs that stupid people click on / random people accidentally click on are the best way to drive a metric in the near future. Somehow they manage to spin the cleanup as a positive and wholesome metric-moving project instead of what it is, which is doing extra work to fix other peoples' negligence.

4. Nothing like introspection happens because the org is entirely driven by short-sighted metric-maximization. It continues to gradually rot, losing the engineers and designers who care about the users, with the main decision-making roles turned over every couple years so pointless pms and managers can stick stars on their resume.

5. In a few years when the accumulation of misanthropic decisions starts to actually affect metrics in a way that nobody can easily bandaid, some executive will start a new project to do something about modernizing the whole app. A bunch of people will ship things to clean it up, and a new design will launch with a bunch of user studies that validate it as better. It will almost certainly be worse, but nobody cares, they just need work to do, and they'll massage the metrics to make it good enough until they can switch roles again.

6. At no point will the organization be capable of anything like shame, which is a shame because that is what is needed: someone in charge has to believe in doing things because they are good for the users and not for mindless metric-moving, and hold those under them accountable accordingly. Instead we get this, which is basically the long-term symptoms of going public in an industry where user growth and retention are not very quickly correlated with changes in the product. As a result bad product changes alienate users slowly and there is little incentive to make good changes, because neither result affects anything in the next few quarters. So instead you get this bullshit: because it's an easy way to hit OKRs and get promoted, and people's bosses have no reason to disagree because it's a cheap way for them to hit OKRs and get promoted also. Not that they're wrong. When the goal of the company is mindless optimization instead of anything socially positive, maybe this is truly what optimal behavior looks like. Although you can be sure that internal messaging nevertheless focuses on how socially positive the changes are. Gotta keep the illusion going so nobody realizes their job is shameful.

Or maybe that won't happen. But ... I've been around this cycle a few times, at companies who inherited Google's contemptible style of management. Somehow feels like I've seen this before.

Death by a thousand cuts.

I'm honestly surprised they didn't reread the 2009 Gmail Autopilot April Fools Day joke in earnest.

Gmail doesn’t think author is "stupid." It’s Google’s business model to sell your data as a product to advertisers; or use it to train models.

What's amusing is that you have now have parties using Ai, GPT, writing the response to the same email that was originally crafted by Ai.

It's the general attitude of multiple companies that I see that makes my blood boil: obviously you are stupid and therefore we will treat you like a toddler.

Your experience is 100% unrelated.

The PM (I know her) is juicing her results, that's all.

With pressure from her bosses and ultimately the CEO to show 'usage' in AI to raise $80B of capital (debt) to build more datacenter.

Unfortunately, those are the incentives of the system.

P.S. No offense to anyone involved - I wouldn't wish the bureaucracy inside Google to make a product change upon anyone. You've used (or tried) to use their cloud products right?

I moved to fastmail about 2 years ago.  It was not a super painful process, they make it easy as possible.  Also I used it as an opportunity to "reverse-whitelist" all my accounts by giving everything i use its own disposable masked address.

spam is now nonexistent in my email.

I setup lieer and notmuch with an alot front end which was the first time I was able to get my Gmail inbox under control.

Unfortunately, I’m not up for learning a completely new set of keyboard shortcuts anymore and alot doesn’t provide a nice interface either, so i don’t use it much more.

But the enshittification of mail is dismaying.

The most annoying thing I noticed about Google trying to shoehorn “AI magic” into their products is Google Maps. I try to help someone navigate with a child in the backseat and they shoveled an AI button into their UI that is even active when you are navigating… Annoyed me so much. I already picked the supermarket I want to go to, now just get out of my way and get me there.

"Lie to people who want to be lied to, and you’ll get rich."

Also known as Promo-Driven Culture

Is this a test feature? I don't see it in my gmail.

Even Clippy had more respect for the user: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_Assistant

I left gmail... well, not really, I was kicked out of gmail, because I am a user of noscript/basic HTML browsers and the only way to "revalidate" you account was to use a whatng cartel web engine. I recall the noscript/basic HTML interface of gmail was dropped after a while.

At the time I was paying for DNS. Then, most, if not all, DNS registrars which are not requiring a whatng cartel web engine are now gone.

The email people were careful to design the email system to work without DNS, then I went IPv[46] literals. It is stronger than SPF, since if the SMTP IP does no match the IPs in the envelope and the headers the email will be dropped.

But the "geniuses" at gmail ignore that and say that I don't have a DNS PTR record... how convenient...
(My ISP does provide a PTR service... gated behind the requirement of a 'whatng cartel' web engine...).

And I don't forget about "spamhaus", a shady swiss/andoran company, which many email admins have a weird tendency to pay that for their block lists which includes ISP consumer IPs (people do not have the right to have an email server, ofc).

We are going to endup with with compuserve/AOL all over again.

The advantages Gmail had when it arrived on the scene just don’t exist anymore.

We have to remember that when Gmail was released, email providers were stingy on storage and decent web mail was unheard of.

Now, if you run over to a paid alternative like FastMail you’ll actually have a faster/better webmail experience.

I also think everyone should use email on their own domain so that it’s easy to kick your provider to the curb if they go downhill. As long as you own the domain you can do whatever you want.

> The message you’re sending is that you think I’m not capable of reading and writing my own emails.

The message they are sending is you,  as a user,  do not matter to them.  Only the analytics and KPIs do.

They spent lavishly on this crap without asking if anyone actually wanted it first.  Now they're stuck with a bad investment and no uptake.

As usual,  in the world of corporate power,  you are just the inconvenient flotsam that occasionally rises to the top.

> Congrats to Google, really. They’ve done a decent job at keeping Gmail stable over the many years I’ve used it. Which is why even I am impressed by how quickly they were able to get me to pack up and leave.

I went the de-google route years ago already. Granted, I am still using some Google services, but I am not at all emotionally attached to it in any way. If Google were to go extinct tomorrow, I would be super-happy, and I am also 100% certain of that, no matter which repercussion would come as a result. Youtube gone? No problem if Google is also gone. Besides, some video site would emerge after that anyway, so really - who needs Google? Let's get rid of it already. It was an annoying adCompany for many years. Now it is an AI adSlop company.

What annoys me the most is that I can’t efficiently track my emails with the default. It’s unusable imo if you have a lot of emails. What I ended up doing was to disable read on preview, and enable shortcuts, so you can navigate with vim shorcuts and have to manually mark emails as read.

Gmail has been pure shit for the past years.
I started because it did not have spam, now I get endless spam on a daily basis like they're trying to kick me out on purpose

you vill use ze ai und you vill love it

Page not loading...

It’s interesting to me that “gives all my private correspondence to federal police without a warrant or judicial oversight” isn’t enough to get people to quit gmail, but “offers to write my email replies for me” is.

Adults shouldn’t use gmail.  I think less of people who do.

> Some of these features can be turned off. Others can’t. Or if they can, it means also turning off useful long-standing features like automatic thread categorization.

This, I absolutely hate it. And like the author said, it must be intentional, so that someone at Google can show the usage numbers and get a promotion.

I stopped using google as my primary email service a few years ago in favor of the custom domain integration that comes with iCloud+.

If you already have a domain and know what an MX or CNAME record is, it takes less than thirty minutes to set up.

Migrating critical correspondence / autopay / etc. may take some time, but observing how much spam continues to flow to your old inbox will certainly be surprising. Now, it is exceptionally easy for me to keep all messages read, and only use my google account for junk signup forms.

https://support.apple.com/guide/icloud/add-a-domain-you-own-...

https://support.apple.com/en-us/102540

They are probably glad for your exit since they need so much space.

Similar experience. Google products in general are becoming really tedious.

It feels almost like these companies have too many devs just cramming in features to justify their existence & year end performance review, rather than considering whether it is an actual improvement to the user's use case.

Gmail is also starting to really get on my nerves with their enshitified UI. Every button looks different (presumably each "owned" by someone else). It's full of popup overlays you need to click away to get to the interface. On iphone 1/3rd of my inbox real estate is currently a banner about data sharing controls?

I just want to write emails guys...

Proton Mail is excellent as is their password manager and VPN.

The message they're trying to send is not "we think you're stupid" so much as "we know you hate this, let us make it easier."

The problem is that they don't offer a way for you to say "no, thank you, I'll write my own emails", because they are dumping so much money into this thing and if people don't want to use it they can't justify feeding the token machine.

You can turn a lot of this stuff off by having a Google Cloud account and using their "business-class" product, which gives you the power to turn off these features (most of them, anyway) for your "employees". I'm already doing that because I use Google for a bunch of stuff, but if I wasn't, I might switch away from Gmail as well.

> so I left

to where?

You can just turn all this stuff off.

At some point it will be Gmail talking to itself.

I've had the setting for AI features turned off in gmail for many years now and am quite happy about it. Using the "dumb" version, there isn't a single feature I've wished existed that might be under those settings. Maybe there are some that would be mildly useful if I'd tried them, but eventually I would get rug pulled by google and have to redo my workflow without them anyway; better not the waste the time to begin with.

Along with the author I also have zero doubt google maliciously disables non-GenAI features under that toggle to coerce people into enabling the slop features as well. Google being google, I fully expect them to remove that option entirely in the future, forcing all users to wade through useless slop. That'll be the impetus for me to finally get off of gmail once and for all.

The overbearing of gmail and the perpetual tech issue with Apple Mail made me want to look for a new email client software. I landed on Spark Mail and i Nope'd the heck out of it very quickly.

There is no guarantee today that any software manufacturer will not slap AI whenever, wherever they can.

I want stuff to work like linux commands. Do one thing well. Work well with other processes over a standard protocol.

If you ever find a good email client @speckx let me know. Something that does not get in my way, can work on mac/windows/iphone/android, can work offline, can do basic things like search predictably (I'm look at you apple mail) and (FFS!) does not show me random unread badges on folders where everything is already read (You again, apple mail).

and you had to be quite the hardcore google-fan to still use gmail in the year of 2000 and 26

The LLM is also training on or reading your emails; my wife was emailing a client and it produced absolute garbage and in that garbage was information the clanker shouldn’t have known unless it read the other emails. That’s probably not a surprise but the implications are staggering.

I think AI should not have the access to our Gmails its private

I disagree that the AI prompts are a bad design. But I won’t defend Gmail either. I’ve been using HEY mail for a year now and I really like it. No AI features yet!

While Google Workspace for personal use is a sometimes a very painful product, at least it makes it easy to turn many of these useless Gemini features off.

> the unsolicited summaries and auto replies are a means of artificially inflating the usage metrics for the language model features

This, I think, is the part that irks me the most. Companies adding token-usage-KPIs for engineering is one thing, but when they have to resort to deliberately tricking users into using their slop-generators.. something has gone very wrong, and they're trying very, very hard to make it seem like it's not so.

My personal pet peeve is Copilot in Teams. Did you know, if you turn off Copilot in Teams at an org level, it disables meeting recording entirely? Ignoring that meeting recording has been a core feature dating way back before Copilot-anything, I can't fantom any possible reason why recording a video of a meeting would require an LLM. Transcription, maybe I could see, but that feature is easily togglable with or without Copilot. But if you want to record a meeting, for whatever reason, you need to have Copilot on.

Shenanigans like this is why user counts for LLM features should always be taken with a grain of salt.

So weird to me to realize that for some people, email providers have a UX, and enough of it that they could consider switching.

I've been using email through a client for decades. My primary email is Gmail, but I have no idea what Gmail is like on the web these days. Save for providers like hey.com, whose entire selling point is their unique web UX, I never understood why would someone use email in their web browser.

I feel the same about auto completion in antigravity

use IMAP and your fav. e-mail client.
Gmail's UI has sucked for ages. Totally unusable for pro users.

Instead of promoting LLMs to write emails and then using LLMs to summarize emails, we could just write succinctly to each other.

I mean I always knew Google could read all my files, but seeing it give an AI summary for every single freaking (PDF) file I open on my Drive is insane. Last I checked couldn't turn it off. It's insane. When I get some free time, I'm probably moving on to Protonmail or something. I'm always a defaults kinda guy, I don't care much bout privacy and such (I'd rather live frictionless) but this garbage useless AI bullshit is getting on my nerves. I don't need you to summarize all my private and sensitive documents. I know how to read.

Nothing changed for me. I do not really recognize this tab suggestion and besides that, i do not see anything has changed.

> The message you’re sending is that you think I’m not capable of reading and writing my own emails.

Huh, really? The message I take from Google’s AI fetish is that Google is _desperate_ to push this stuff on people so that they can show use and make it look like less of an expensive failure. It’s kind of comical at this point; you can’t use a Google thing without being bombarded with pleading to use Gemini.

Thinking that Gmail thinks anything about you is giving them too much credit. The only reason for any of this is the desperation to juice their AI usage metrics.

> but this is the first time I’ve experienced software that feels like it’s actively trying to be disrespectful

It sounds like they use plenty of software so they must be incredibly lucky, picky, or both.

I don't receive any of those prompts in Gmail. Perhaps because I said no when that popup for "integrate Gemini into Gmail" happened months ago?

I still use gmail, and so far only a few spam messages have gone through. They really built a solid system, but the web ui is just not a good experience, so thank god for thunderbird too.

I don’t understand. Do the people generating ‘content’ with LLMs themselves enjoy pissing away their own time ingesting the output they’re asking an LLM to produce?

For all the amazing creative work carefully (or not) crafted by humans directly, you’d rather have the derived token sausage?

Writing with intent to deceive a human, and otherwise generating ‘art’ with models is the laziest application thereof, and I’d argue it’s unethical. If you generate something and present it to me as your own work, worthy of direct human consumption and thus, my finite human heartbeats, I instantly have a problem with you.

Email in perfuckingticular: if your actual reply is “yep, meet you there!” And you ask the LLM to expand it and bloat it in some way, what’s the justification?

Gmail has become unbearably slow over the past year.

What used to be instantaneous (like, opening an email) now takes seconds.

Google, what happened to you?

I'm amazed at how many folks on this forum see the Web UI as intrinsically tied to the service. As someone else rightly said, e-mail = IMAP + SMTP. That is true of Gmail as well.

Frankly, I've always hated the Gmail web UI, so I never use it. Not in the 22 years I've had a Gmail account.

IMHO, Superhuman gets a ton right... A Superhuman clone  (maybe in VIM or Emacs) would be ideal if you don't want the AI features or the $40/month fee. Don't even need to change your mail address, since it connects to Gmail.

Why not just use Gmail via imap and a email client of your choice?

Also here to say I've been a happy Fastmail user for like 7 years after moving away from gmail (or Google Business or whatever they used to call it) and it's been AWESOME.

So everyone is using the web UI? I'm still using a mail client (Thunderbird) connecting to my mail accounts through the Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP). Today I feel old.

One of the most frustrating parts about Google's approach to AI in general is their project manager-y directive from on-high, that any Google product needs to adopt all Google's AI tools, wherever possible, and will be ranked on how deeply the integration goes.

In the margins: the user.

I don't know. I used to feel this way about IDE autocompletes/suggestions. Now they are widely used, and it doesn't necessarily seem hostile. It's not that hard to imagine the same thing could happen here.

A. Disable the Gemini suggestions if you don’t want it (I did so).

B. If one’s using a free mail service for 16 years, and then came to not liking its recent development, in which world shitting on it in public is the right and necessary thing to do?

C. In which world someone switching mail provider is a top front page news item?

D. If the case in B is not free, then this means the OP was heavier user than my teenage daughter. Thus consumed more of it.

Google has always been like this. I remember a presentation from the Google Cloud Platform team a decade ago when they smugly asserted that they'd take care of "the hard stuff" while I, their business customer, focused on ... the easy stuff?

A gmail expat, I've been over at posteo for about a decade. Couldn't imagine a reason to go back for my personal account.

I've used gmail for corpo email since, but I don't have a choice there.

> “Tab to improve”. What I’ve written so far isn’t up to Gmail’s standards, it seems.

I find this infuriating.  I have my own voice, my own writing style, and I deliberately use some "bad" writing tropes for effect. For any non-trivial amount of writing (read: anything with actual paragraphs), I'm liable to spend as much time editing as I am writing out the first draft, to make sure my writing conveys the message I want it to.

"Tab to improve" is, effectively, "tab to delete my own personality".

I've been on the very cheap Zoho mail for awhile and it's done everything I want it to do including meetings.

Making a 10 min email/work doc used to take far longer than 10 mins. Now it takes far less.  This breaks the built-in guard against wasting people’s time.

I wonder if a minor UI change might help a bit: make it normal to show “approx 15 min read” in the email/whatever interface.

Just some sort of “this is the baseline amount of work you’re asking of the recipient.”

The key point here is not that they think you’re stupid but that they refuse to let you say no.

One of the Google founders (Sergei I think) read the book “nudge” and fell in love with it. What Google product managers fail to realize is that a hard nudge is called a shove. And removing the ability to say no is theft of consent.
They continue to do it because it works and there’s nobody left there with enough courage to stop them.

Very happy to have mostly de-Googled, I don't miss the AI-forward product decisions. I only use Google now for occasional searches and interacting with other Google users (e.g. Docs).

What the suggestion chatbot designers don’t realize is that accepting the suggestion may be a double cognitive load than just writing it. 
If it’s an email of any importance you have to read and understand the whole suggestion. And to get the suggestion you already expressed that thought.

I only ever use Gmail's backend. I've been using it for years with Mail.app on both Mac and iOS. Every time I load the web interface I'm appalled.

Not that Mail.app is amazing. It sometimes corrupts its sqlite db (I have 300k+ emails dating back to the late 90s). But it's still way better than the dreadful web interface that only seems to get worse and slower.

The rush to AI everything has really showcased the epic stupidity of tech leadership.

As someone who hosts their own email, I dislike Gmail as much as anyone. But your issue is this:

> I go to check my email in Gmail’s web UI.

gmail is the best and worst email system on earth

they really don't know how to integrate AI into it at all, and honestly I think a part of that comes down to a little bit of column a and column b. Where column a is that they are constrained by privacy and column b is they are constrained by complete politics driven work cycles that don't allow them to rethink or rework things at all or try things out.

I'm pretty sure to do a single change it requires 50 coordination calls with like 5 different executive levels 8 kpi alignment meetings 6 product managers in varying different rooms 3 different user group studies and finally after all that you might be able to ship something but it's nothing close to what you or the user originally wanted.

such is the way of "startups"

I was forwarding something to my wife and I see this other person suggested in the recipient list. The weird way the suggestion UI is designed makes it look like they are already added, but I assumed I would have to select the person in the second forward box to add them. Anyway, I won't migrate for now though because I hardly use email anymore.

I often think about leaving gmail, but it's not clear what the better option out there is, that doesn't create a bunch of pain in terms of not having good replacements for the rest of the ecosystem.

> Afterward, I go to compose a new message. A colorful animation steals my focus for a second highlighting a new “help me write” button. I ignore it and move on to filling in the recipients and subject line.

Does it do this animation every time you try to compose a new message, or is it just the first time you are given the button?

(I couldn't simply look at my own gmail to see, because I tried that but mine does not have it. I'm guessing it is either something they are gradually rolling out or it is something only for people who are paying for Google services).

I have a friend with dyslexia and he has always agonised over writing email. At work he would often get me to check important emails for him.

Using AI allows him to feel a lot more confident in what he is writing, particularly when I suggested he tell the LLM tone (friendly and professional) he was wanting.

I find it odd how so many tech involved people here use gmail - are privacy concerns not a concern for them?

I moved to mailbox.org years ago. Pay a few pounds a year for private email with webtools and drive and don't have google snooping my emails and sending me targeted ads.

This is the header bar I see every day in Gmail https://imgur.com/a/QCUP43o>. The color behind the Google logo is incorrect. I can name about 50 similar UI issues. Google's lack of attention to detail is almost impressive.

That's weird. I use Gmail regularly and did not experience anything like that; it works just the way it did for the past 10+ years. And auto categorization still works just fine, and no AI summarizing my email or trying to write my drafts. I wonder what difference we have in settings.

Also, not to be disrespectful to the OP, but seems quite an... overblown reaction. To each their own, though.

WhatsApp too is nowadays showing nagging 'predictions' for what I want to type with no way to disable those.  I do use AI for a lot of things, but otherwise I do not even use auto-correct, auto-capitalization, auto-anything.

Overly aggrieved style of writing. There's some prompts in Gmail to use AI. These are supposedly indictments of the author's writing or intellect? Anyway, the setting is in General and then Cmd-F "smart" and turn everything off.

Please Google let me buy my email and move it to my own service without any restrictions and I will be thankful. I am now in too deep to move away, from my govt licenses to banks to everything else.

Switching away from Gmail isn't possible for me, but I will keep trying, I won't give up but hopefully I would never have to realize how big a mistake this was.

I feel like I might end up on the streets if gmail goes away. Hyperbolic but it's insane how true that feels.

It looks like you are writing an email. Would you like some help with that?

Seems somewhat familiar from somewhere…

I got a new Samsung phone a few months ago (my last phone was showing signs of dying soon, and I'd promised to never touch Xiaomi again). It took a while to convince the two competing sets of GenAI features (Gemini and Bixby, and related features) that if I wanted their help I'd come calling, and until then they should sod off and leave me to do things myself.

Yeah none of this is helpful. Even writing in Google docs is inundated with AI in your face features I don't need 99% of the time.

I don't mind the "make this clearer" suggestions in email writing, sometimes that does help me. As long as it stays out of my way like a spell checker, and is optional /opt in.

I think more and more about just moving back to Thunderbird client. Not ready though to give up on my google account, the calendar is too good.

Is Fast Mail having human support? Suppose I forget my password or suppose fastmail somehow bans my account then is there a readily available human on the other end whom I can message or talk to. Recently on HN someone posted about a school which lost its 10 years of Google apps data and account with no possible recourse.

Personally, as a gmail user of  about 2 decades, this is the first I've heard of this particular issue, probably because for some years I don't even read past the word "smart" before disabling whatever feature du jour is being pushed in my face.

I'm just now migrating away from gmail for a different kind of inanity[1] all the same.

1: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48367950

I focus the message body area and underneath my cursor appears
    the message “Press / for Help me write”.

I got this and went a bit mad pushing every Gmail lever there was. Eventually I worked out that the Chrome browser was puking this onto my unwritten Gmail messages.

I had been using Chrome for just Gmail, because of Gmail's sabotagey hostility toward Firefox. On my 10+ machines I swapped Chrome for Bromium, ungoogled Chromium, Brave and a couple of others I don't recall.

BTW, one more thing where Google thinks I'm stupid:

Increasingly, it tries to tie your phone number to your accounts. Fair enough, problems with fake accounts and all that, I don't like it but I understand it.

However, the prompt is invariably "Let us verify it's you. Please enter your phone number:" or something along those lines. With that, you don't verify that it's me. You just verify that someone has a phone number. It's for your protection, not for my protection. Don't patronise me.

I want to do the same, but how does one migrate to a different E-mail provider? The current email address is in use in uncountable places, how will all of that change?

I don't get it.

Just don't use the Gmail interface. Use your own mail reader.

Don't conflate "Gmail the UI" with "Gmail the mail provider".

Having said this - I never used Gmail for anything serious - I had my own domain + mail etc since before Gmail existed, and the reason was I got tired of "free" tools making my life miserable.

Long time protonmail subscriber and reasonably happy, but them not allowing SMTP access (other than through proton bridge which is a GUI app - workaround: https://ndo.dev/blog/headless_protonbridge) kind of sucks, and their search functionality is also not great.

Debating moving over to Fastmail as well

> I focus the message box to draft a reply, but there’s already one there. It was also generated by the language model. I delete it, replacing it with my own.

The really, really scary thing is how uncommon this approach is. I think.

My assumption is that most people roll with automated pre-written reply. Maybe tweaking a few things here and there, but ultimately preferring the all-too-convenient trade-off of the robots having written something close enough to what they wanted to say, using "better" words. Even when what they would have written themselves would have had some personality, even if it was their own flawed human one.

For the record, I am 100% with you on your approach (on the odd occasion that I must use gmail).

The 'smart' features are a classic example of designing for the median user while actively degrading the experience for power users. Smart Compose, nudges, category tabs  all of them make sense if you get 50 emails a day and respond to 5. They become noise if you have actual workflows. The problem is you can't opt out of the product vision, only individual features.

I'll never, ever forgive Google for killing the "Basic HTML View" client mode for Gmail.

The reason why the tech giants push those features is that they tune their features to serve the average user from where bulk of their revenue comes from. If you feel offended by "Tap to improve", then you are not their average user. Their average user would be thankful for such offer to help. That's their product manager's view.

Even for your own business and product, you would focus on serving the category of user from where bulk of your revenue would come from. And your fringe users would feel they are not cared for. That's what is happening.

I probably accept about 50% of its suggestions for improvements.

Sometimes it finds "misspellings" where I wrote a correctly spelled word but not the one I intended, because it understands context.   Sometimes it legitimately makes the sentence clearer.

And sometimes its suggestion turns the message from a warm and friendly email into a cold strictly-business email.  Those are the ones I usually ignore.

I use Fastmail for personal email, but my org is a Google shop. If you have "smart features and personalization" turned off it doesn't even try with AI tools, and I toggled that years ago to get it to stop doing the smart category stuff. The horrifying thing as they pile on "AI" features lately is realizing that most of my coworkers have a totally different email experience.

I haven’t seen the Gmail web UI in perhaps 15 years or so. I’ve been using it with various email clients and it works just fine.

The issues the author describes are issues with Gmail’s web interface, not with the email service itself.

Gmail’s summaries are both intrusive and poor quality. They actively make the email experience worse.

This is all a solution looking for a problem, pretending that people don’t have time to read or write their own email.

With both Google search and email Google is willing to replace reality with uncertain pseudo-reality. I find it extraordinary.

What surprises me most about gmail and AI is that they seem really quite bad at filtering out obvious spam. I get so many messages from people I have never heard from, on relatively new domains, with endings like "if this isn't relevant for you right now, say "not now" and I'll not circle back" (a clear attempt to allow unsubscribe without using the word).

How is it that they haven't figured out how to stop these messages from getting through? I'm at the point that I'm considering those email services that require the sender to confirm they're human before an email is delivered. It would be a hassle to people I communicate with (once), but the ongoing hassle to me is sizable enough that I'm considering it.

At work, we use Google Workspaces so that we have gmail and google docs and google sheets, and the "features" noted in this post have all shown up for us. That said, we were able to turn them off and haven't been bothered by them since. I don't remember the process being hard at all. That said, it's still something you need to do to have your settings not be the default settings, but is that necessarily any worse than any other setting you like to change away from the default?

I turned off "smart features" in the setting months ago, and I've never seen any of the things the author complains about.

Promotion culture at work, aka if I ship a feature and no one is using it, did I even drive measurable impact? Mix that with a healthy dose of fear for one's job with senior management pushing for "AI or bust" and you get these outcomes. Today it's AI non-features crowding out useful functionality, yesterday it was Google+, before it was Google Buzz, etc etc. This too shall pass (unless it truly is different this time).

So many seem to have made a similar move. But the one thing holding me back: starting with a new email address.

My email address is not just for email. It's so firmly embedded in my digital life, it's hard to think how to remove it. It's my identity. I use "login with Google" in most places where it's available. It's my backup recovery for my MFA authenticator. It's my github alias.

So what is the strategy everyone follows to start with a custom domain? Do people use redirection? Is that effective? What happens when an email is redirected from Gmail to my new host, and I want to keep replying without the recipients thinking I've changed email? If you do that, is it even worth switching, given you have to keep your Gmail account?

That is the more interesting part of these stories to me than which host people move to.

I really hope Apple watches what Google and Microsoft are doing with AI, specifically shoving it into their customers' workflow without invitation, and steers far away from that path.

You can turn off the "smart" features in the settings page for gmail. I did this and find it to be much more usable!

My interpretation leans towards: Gmail Thinks I'm Lazy.

LLMs have made one thing clear: intellectual laziness is even more pervasive than we previously thought, even among "knowledge workers".

I haven't used the Gmail UI in almost a decade now; I connect using my own email client. But this sounds terrible. I think the incentives at Google haven't changed. Engineers want promotions and in many teams how you achieve that is through pushing features with tons of user engagement. The features tend to include few options to opt out.

Something I hate about ChatGPT is that it assumes I want my text to be rewritten instead of engaging with the content.

I like my writing style. Sure it may leave some sort of linguistic fingerprint and it may not meet some LLM’s idea of what “good” looks like, but I don’t care.

What’s worrying is that the rewrite-by-default behavior is probably there because most users want it.

I don't see any of those (horribly-sounding) AI "helpers" when I read or write messages in gmail. I tried it again just now, to make sure that nothing had changed since yesterday.
I do remember clicking through some suggested "feature improvements" a while ago and saying "No" to all of them. Can't really remember what it was though.
Can it be that the author has some option enabled in settings somewhere which allows this? Or is this something GMail is (forcibly) gradually rolling out? If so, shudder.

EditUpdate: After reading another comment, this must have been a bunch of "smart features" which gmail suggested a while ago. I just, as I said, refused all of them. So they're available in Settings somewhere.  Find, turn off.

Despite using Firefox, I keep chrome installed in case there is a website that requires it. I have recently started receiving Windows 11 notifications from Chrome, advertising their new AI features. This happens one two different devices. I haven't launch chrome on either of them for some time.

It is maddening how much they are pushing this useless and inaccurate garbage on us.

My Mother received an email from her supermarket confirming her delivery date.  It said they were coming tomorrow morning while she was out.  She'd just made the booking for a completely different day so she couldn't understand it.  She is very old and this confusion made her think her mental decline had accelerated.  She was quite distressed.

I looked at her gmail (I don't use it) and it took me a moment to realise I wasn't looking at the email.  I was looking at an AI summary of it, and it was completely wrong.  The only important information in the message was the delivery date, and the AI had hallucinated a different one.  So I disabled the AI features.

But I do wonder how many people have, for example, missed job interviews or funerals because of this bullshit.  Google has utter contempt for their users.

You know what's even worse? That if he had tried any of those "here look! we can write it for you!" tools he’d have found out that they don't even work.

Gmail summaries are nonsensical most of the times. The suggested replies completely miss the intent of the original message I was trying to write.

Most AI integrations around are basically alpha-quality code, that if there wasn't this forced pressure to adopt AI, AI, AI at any cost, they wouldn't have been shipped in this state at all.

I haven't seen this new annoying AI behavior because I use IMAP to access my GMail.  After reading this post, I decided to backup my GMail inbox, which is something I've never bothered to do because it's mostly a secondary backup that I rarely use.

So it took a few minutes to finish copying all of the ~1,500 messages or so, and then I went to verify that I got them all.  For some odd reason, GMail doesn't let me copy (at least via IMAP) any messages after 1/17/2024.  It had no trouble copying everything older than that, dating back to May of 2009.  I tried copying just a single message (from last week) and it silently fails every time.  I can view the message via IMAP, but I cannot copy it.

Has anybody else seen this?

Update: It seems to be an issue with my mail server because I was able to copy the remaining 205 messages into a local folder.

I recently had this experience with Jetbrain’s YouTrack. I was filing a bug, trying to be good and hand-write the prose, and it kept giving me editing suggestions. Not just punctuation and grammar, but critiquing my sentence length and structure! Well, I took its suggestions as helpful feedback, but the end result didn’t sound like me and it made my writing look like an LLM wrote it. It used short sentences, changed my vocabulary, and generally dumbed it down. I came away feeling like I was just a bad writer —- which maybe I am, but having graduated from college I feel like I can’t be that bad. I might as well have let Claude write the whole thing.

I've moved to Migadu a few years ago for more or less the same reason, but pre AI - Google's unrequested filtering and sorting made things actively worse on my daily chaos. Moreover the eternal threat of Google cutting the cord for any non-defined infraction and locking you out of your own life is crazy. I still use drive and other Google features, but my email is just an account login and nothing more.

Migadu has been a breeze, very sane and transparent payment model, human support, infinite domains and accounts (!). What I really miss are calendar features which are just underdeveloped, but it seems mostly the Microsoft and Google have ruined that area by doing whatever they want.

I like the instructions Migadu gave for copying your emails over - just open thunderbird and copy or move everything from one account. I put everything in an Archive folder so can find it if ever needed. Just insanely pragmatic and it worked.

Gmail is one of the shoddiest of the ultra-cheap email providers. If you use Gmail, a significant number of messages will disappear. They don't go to junk, they just disappear. Gmail will reject messages for obscure technical reasons. They recently decided that they would no longer accept messages signed with 1024 bit RSA DKIM. So, with no public announcement they just turned on the restriction. I found out about this from a random Mastodon poster who wasn't really sure what was going on. The error message returned to the sender gave no indication at all.

Gmail is the email provider for people that like to claim they never got the email. Google has somehow made the most reliable messaging medium, unreliable.

It is obvious that Google simply doesn't care about email. So it makes perfect sense for them to use Gmail to promote something that they do care about.

Oh man, I left Gmail 6-7 years ago for different reasons (a total overhaul & hardening of my personal  privacy/ security posture), but kudos to you! Get away and don’t look back, you won’t regret it! I’d recommend de-googling your life of all their services, you really don’t need them. There are good, more privacy respecting options for just about everything except maps. Google Maps is the one service I still use constantly.

A big question about this push for AI/LLM features in products, and I think very related to public sentiment on AI, is that if these features were so desirable and useful why do they need to be so forcefully promoted?

If these features were so useful, the internet would be full of articles and viral videos about how to turn them on and use them.

Instead, every single software service you sign in to now has to stop you with popups, chat windows, and sparkle animations to show you all of the shiny new AI features they have added, like they're all Microsoft trying to convince you to switch your browser to Edge.

Exactly the same problem manifests itself in Google Docs.

Hit RETURN. New paragraph. Begin considering what you will write. Prompt pops up: “Help me write.”  Every time.

It’s incredibly distracting and turning it off is hard wired into disabling about 1000 other features.

If you want a Superhuman-like interface, that is running in TUI with neovim as a composer and a modern neomutt as a reader, check out neomd [1]. I'm the creator, so I'm biased, but I replaced my previously used HEY email with it. It has a screener and a GTD workflow built in.

Just in case, it works with any SMTP/IMAP setup like Fastmail, or any other. Proton mail works as well but need a little more to setup initially, even gmail (but much slower as the article explains, I noticed that too)

[1] https://neomd.ssp.sh

I just can't stand how Gmail is putting a red line under every other sentence that I write (telling me that my writing style is a "mistake") and aggressively nudging me to rewrite it to make it sound more like AI.

Whoever thought such a product would be a good idea should be fired.

Related to this, I hate how aggressively Google pushes Gemini and all of the privacy implications involved with that.

1) Lots of features got moved around and there are now many "Write with AI", "Generate image with AI", etc buttons polluting user interfaces even though I don't use them and don't want to use them.

2) Actually, I would use some of these features if I didn't have to do a full opt-in to Smart Features for Google Workspace. If I'm writing a blog post and want to generate a cat picture, that doesn't mean I want to turn on invasive AI-enhanced features in every Google App under the sun. Gemini's chat interface is similar from I can tell: either I can see my search history but Google can train off of it, or if I don't want Google to train off of my chats then I can turn History off but then I can't view it myself. Why isn't there an option for me to see my history but not Google?? They're just the worst at caring about UX.

This was the same feeling I had with the Copilot autocomplete in VSCode. An AI-driven autocomplete that can write entire methods for me? What's not to like? But would it have hurt to bind it to a keyboard shortcut like every other autocomplete in the past and not have it go off randomly on its own, constantly trying to guess what I'm coding?

True, search took a shot too. I am on DDG - not perfect, but at least I can I don't know...search the internet and not talk to LLMs about it? I am not anti AI, I am using AI a lot - I also search things occasionally in ChatGPT, but when I go to search the internet I want to go to search to the internet. Gmail I don't use for very long time, having my own domain and using email elsewhere...only YouTube is something I keep returning back.

> I think we’re all used to user-hostile software these days [...]

Malware. Call it what it is. Software that intentionally subverts and acts against the user’s intent is malware. It’s important to call malware what it is because people don’t even realize they shouldn’t use it when it’s not called malware. Instead, they get "used to" using malware.

It's really bizarre at this point. I'm okay with things like having one-click options for simple replies like "That time works for me" (Google Messages on Android is hilariously bad at these but it's at least useful occasionally). I'm not okay with it suggesting a whole point-by-point response to someone else.

Today I had an email from a colleague where it had a suggested reply so large it didn't fit in the preview box. The response was the usual LLM "sounds good but doesn't say anything" prose. It's not just unhelpful — it's a waste of everyone's time!

I've also noticed Gmail spam filter became useless for anything but the most obvious scam/phishing, it seems any mass marketing gets thru as long as they follow some "best practices".

I've been using iCloud email with a custom domain for a while, and it has been super conveninent, stable and spam-free. I also trust Apple more than Google in terms of privacy rn. So if you already pay for iCloud, give it a try.

Not related to using LLMs for writing email, but something that bothers me about using Gmail lately.

There were a couple of lass action lawsuits (like this one: www.GoogleWebAppActivityLawsuit.com) against Google. The emails from both lawsuits went straight to my Gmail account's 'Spam' folder. I'm glad I review my spam box regularly. Hopefully, it's just the false positive effect of the Gmail's spam filter.

While I haven't had this issue with Gmail, I recently got a new computer and the first two weeks for full of moments like this. It's shocking to me how much we've let popups go rampant on everything. Perhaps the worst offender is Windows update, as it won't even let you use your own computer without clicking through 10 screens refusing all sorts of products they are trying to push on you.

I can heartily recommend going into your Google settings and disabling the global "smart features" option. It removes a huge amount of crap all at once.

For GMail, go to Settings -> General (https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/#settings/general) and scroll down to "Smart features" and disable that.

Then go to the next option, "Google Workspace smart features" and disable them across your entire workspace with 1 or 2 more toggles.

Finally, just switch to Fastmail or something. :-)

> This time I’m doing things the right way by connecting my own domain to a mail host. I’m currently with Fastmail since they were by far the most popular option when I asked for suggestions on the fediverse.

Question for the general public: why Fastmail over Proton?

LinkedIn (the company not the other users) thinks I'm stupid, so I also left it.

Great. I tried the Google examples a while ago and got nowhere with it, time for another go, within the netherworld of SVG, to map to several different layers.

Is the AI revolution just going to be us getting shocked and terrified at each new model until we go extinct? When will it end?

If you know anyone who uses WhatsApp, Signal, iMessage, and other encrypted apps, tell them to speak up now. Otherwise tell them to be prepared to pay for a foreign VPN to continue using the service. They may also need to create a foreign IOS/Google account to redownload the apps.

---

There's another SECU Committee meeting tomorrow, where the Liberals are hoping to send C-22 back to the House for a final vote: https://www.ourcommons.ca/DocumentViewer/en/45-1/SECU/meetin...

Tell the SECU, Gary Anandasangaree (gary.anand@parl.gc.ca), Mark Carney (mark.carney@parl.gc.ca), and Sean Fraser (sean.fraser@parl.gc.ca) that any suspicionless retention of metadata is unacceptable.

Write to all members of the SECU Committee: https://www.ourcommons.ca/Committees/en/SECU/Members

Use the following tool to message your MP:

* The Internet Society's tool: https://www.internetsociety.org/our-work/internet-policy/kee...

* OpenMedia's messaging tool: https://action.openmedia.org/page/188754/action/1

* ICLM's messaging tool: https://iclmg.ca/stop-c-22/

There's an official House of Commons e-petition against C-22 here: https://www.ourcommons.ca/petitions/en/Petition/Details?Peti...

And feel free to start messaging Senators.

The AI stumbled easily at what would have been the most impressive achievement (book the Airbnb) and yet the author was "terrified" by it?

I can appreciate LLMs for some use cases, but writing emails for the user is the one that really baffles me.

It's one thing if you don't speak English well and could use some help making yourself understood, but the amount of native speakers using this is so strange to me. How does this help you? If you can write to the LLM telling it what kind of email to write, you might as well just write the email.

> I don’t know if Spark was guessing what time Lewis naps in the afternoon, or if it knew it somehow, but it was right to schedule nap time for 1:30PM.

Maybe it knows from phone usage, e.g. lowered volume while the kid naps.

Zuck for example has a lot of knowledge about his users. He could in theory even see a relationship grow: from initial contact, to increased frequency of messages, and then how the phones are connected to the same WiFi network but without any messages being exchanged (because the people are at a date spot), culminating with one phone spending the night connected to the other's home network..

Hah, imagine using all the gathered data to predict if relationships will work or not..

Looking for your alternative?

Let me give you some (non financially motivated) praise for Fastmail.

It has everything Gmail has - even app passwords, hide my email, and ios integration. The only criticism is the calendar doesn’t autocomplete addresses so that’s a bit more typing than I would like. But everything you do in Fastmail is instant. They live up to the name!

Once you try it and go back, you’ll be shocked - Gmail makes you stare at its logo for multiple seconds while it shrugs and eventually loads.. then takes over the top of your inbox with “try our new AI features!” which never remembers that you dismissed it 50 times in a row. Everything in gmail is SO slow, while Fastmail doesn’t even bother with animations. No animations will confuse you until you settle in and realise that yes, things can be nice.

Fastmail data migration brought across my 22 years of emails over the course of about 30 hours with zero help from me. Search on Fastmail finds everything - even back to when you could only get Gmail with a friend code. There’s nothing left on the other side, it’s all here with me.

Going back to my brand new startup inbox (G Suite) gives me the same feelings I get wandering a castle ruin.

[dead]

[flagged]

Love the one-variable design where scale and translate stay in sync automatically, just wish Firefox would get off the flag already.

I get motion sickness from this specific effect. Especially on high refresh rate screens.

Idk about anyone here but I find the effect disorienting.

Hey, where's the demo?

I would prefer not to

Using css perspective for parallax has been around for years and is much simpler code.

This [0] seems to be the main meta bug, with [1] being for CSS and [2] for JS, for FF to ship it without the flag. There seems to be slow work towards it, kinda funny that FF was the first browser to have it (flag-gated, according to CIU) and now is the only one without it in stable ;)

[0]: https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1676779

[1]: https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1676780

[2]: https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1676781

The public should own 100% of AI companies. Why stop at 50%?

People on HN generally love municipal broadband. For good reasons. It is almost without exception better than any of the national ISPs. Cheaper too.

Municipal broadband is just 100% publicly-owned. That's what that means. When you have a national ISP, you might not get a service at all despite the ISP guaranteeing service in exchange for money from the state they've taken. You get a service that starts at $60 but somehow gets to $140 in a few years unless you do the annual cancel dance and if you do cancel you have no other options anyway. And what are you really paying for? Lobbying to make municipal broadband illegal.

And these same people will defend the status quo because of "property rights". Nobody here is Jeff Bezos. Does it seem like things are going well? Is this a legitimate belief in unfettered property rights? Or is it just that you believe you'll be Jeff Bezos one day so you'll benefit from the status quo?

This is the origin of the quote possibly misattributed to Steinbeck that Americans view themselves as "temporarily embarrassed millionaires".

Only if it's AGI, which is astronomically impossible.

Yeah because collective ownership worked out so well for everything from Soviet cars to Venezuelan oil. Anyone speaking for "the people" is either an evil scumbag or a useful idiot for future ones. "People" are composed of individuals.  Most individuals' content is nearly worthless for AI training (and some like Sanders' are probably harmful, they should own negative shares in this scheme:D).

Let individuals decide (including in the court of law like in those copyright lawsuits by those few that actually produce valuable content) how theirs is to be used.

I trust Anthropic, heck even Musk, more than I would trust some apparatchik legally empowered to decide for the "people".

In a world where it's increasingly overlooked, I'm glad the author mentions disabling it respecting user settings. I do think it should be reversed and only enabled with the `@media (prefers-reduced-motion: no-preference)`, but that is the opinion of someone who gets negative value from animations and is bemused by how much dev and compute time is spent on them.

A demo https://codepen.io/editor/phelm/pen/019e87f5-dfec-7372-9849-...

If these companies intend to destroy the fabric of society and jobs and livelihood of everyone, then that leaves us very few choices as a society. This is one of the tamest and most peaceful ones, even if it's just a start. Hopefully Sammy and friends choose wisely.

How does this compare to the classic css-native parallax effect? Before the scroll timeline APIs you'd use the "perspective" css property to create a container where the z plane is n pixels away from the screen, and then position each layer within it at a different z distance using transform: translateZ

That method is GPU accelerated too, so it is performant compared to some js solutions, and has worked well in every browser for around a decade

I like the idea of the scroll-timeline though, just keen to understand what the advantage is for this

I was expecting a demo on the linked page itself.
Interesting to let Codex or Claude Code do it :)

[flagged]

...just half?

It would be awesome to put an interactive example right in the article.

A parallax effect has also long been possible with CSS 3D transforms. Here's a demo,[0][1] from the same person who made that CSS 3D FPS a while ago.[2]

[0]: https://www.keithclark.co.uk/articles/pure-css-parallax-webs...

[1]: blog: https://www.keithclark.co.uk/articles/pure-css-parallax-webs...

[2]: https://www.keithclark.co.uk/labs/css-fps/

I played around with this API some time ago. It’s simple and high-performance, but one feature I wish existed is damping. Scroll-driven animations are tied directly to the scroll timeline, so there’s no concept of the parallax object “catching up” to the scroll progress over, say, one second. From what I remember, `animation-timing-function` feels weird when you scroll, so it’s not the right solution. GSAP offers this, but it’s JS-only.

That is actually not that bad of an idea huh

You can make some really cool stuff with css scroll animations. I used SVG paths with a scroll animated dash offset to draw an image while scrolling. Zero javascript, it feels so smooth. https://thomaswelter.nl (the background)

there is a special place in hell for pages like these that don't show examples

That sounds interesting but it would be a whole lot more interesting if the page was itself an example of said effect!

could this be combined with a sprite like image that shows a slightly different angle of the image with each step

I'm sorry to say, but this is a losing position, as in one you only adopt when you've already lost and are trying to bargain. It presupposes that the AI companies are unregulateable, and that the only possible avenue of influence/dividend is through ownership. Contrast with the traditional idea that when companies create harm, the government works to stop that harm by default. Or that if these companies actually do succeed at rolling up up the distributed economy into a handful of centralized companies, the government steps in to tax their outsized gains to preserve some semblance of a distributed economy. Furthermore, what does said "ownership" actually do ? If the government is unable to regulate these companies, then it is also unable to reliably exercise a voting interest or insist on receiving dividends - if the companies are this powerful, then whoever actually controls them can always alter the terms and reject the "owners'" demands.

The Public Should Own ALL of SpaceX.

Can we wait till after the bubble pops and see what pieces are left on the floor?

Wouldn't taxes give more to the public than nationalization?  I'd like the benefits of Communism without the downsides.

There are efficiency benefits to the government owning stock vs. using the IRS for collection, that part I like. But I don't trust the US gov to use stock voting rights wisely.

I am repulsed by this because it will obviously be the vehicle through which tax money will be directed into Altman & Co's pockets, but I also understand that they will get bailed out whether the government gets a share or not.

As long as they are voting shares, I don't see an increase in the harm. I'd like to see a legislative framework about how that ownership is handled that allows Congress and regulatory agencies to make decisions restricting how these companies will operate, but without any regard to the constitutional rights of the corporate persons or their owners.

I'm sick of the government arguing with monopolies, then taking dives. I want it to be abundantly clear that government has the ability to restrict these AI utility companies freely (such as their ability to feed on their customers), while still limiting the rights that the state has over the personal use of AI by private individuals. Partial state ownership will make that possible. Hell, let half their boards be publicly elected.

This would be for the benefit of the political elite, not “the public”.

Giving government property rights means taking away your own property rights. It’s zero sum.

Bernie is a full on communist at this point. Seizing the assets of private  companies for the government? WTF.

The public should own half of everything that Senator Sanders owns as well.

Bernie Sanders.  I mean, he's not always wrong, but he's, um, kind of enthusiastic about just taking stuff from those who have it, considerably more than the current understanding of private property (or even taxation) considers acceptable.

"Envy was once considered to be one of the seven deadly sins before it became one of the most admired virtues under its new name, social justice."
- Thomas Sowell

I think, up until now, no politician has campaigned on the combination of a wealth tax and a significant income tax reduction. Wealth taxes are always proposed as in addition to, rather than a replacement for, income taxes. This makes them an electoral loser. All the temporarily embarrassed millionaires and billionaires come out to rally against the wealth tax.

On the other hand if it put significant money into most people's hands...it's going to be a lot harder to fight.

Bernard, this may not be the best time. This market is gonna go nuclear...

In general, it seems to me that an abstract resource like AI cannot possibly be regulated. Even if US forced their hand and took ownership of the controlling stakes in the current major AI companies, what stops the other AI companies from raising up and doing whatever they want?

Perhaps the assumption is that these large AI companies need large datacenters to operate and that is how they will be regulated. But what about the datacenters outside the US jurisdiction? And what about local AI?

In the old days, the computers were huge and there was one per city. Now, several decades later, we all have plenty of our own computers. I cannot imagine why the trend would not continue with AI. Over time, it is in my opinion plausible that most of our common needs would be satisfied by local AI running on one's home servers or even phones.

How is that going to be regulated by owning a controlling stake in a few US AI companies?

I do not see into the details of what Mr. Bernie Sanders is suggesting. It seems to me though that his idea of somehow regulating the AI needs further development. Because the currently discussed approaches seem to me like a hot take that has not been thought over very well.

"No man's life, liberty, or property is safe while the legislature is in session." Gideon J. Tucker

This sounds like the new "thats people's retirement," because if we convert 50% of every AI company into a sovereign wealth fund (which is already a questionable seizure anyway), suddenly it will become politically untenable to do anything that might put that fund in danger, like... regulating anything, or even not bailing out a company thats struggling.

The quickest way to lose the AI battle to China and reinstate censorship and model political bias is to hand the industry over to the government. This doesn’t just benefit democrats, whatever political party is in power will use them as tools of political means. Not to mention almost certainly pricing won’t act in accordance with free market forces but instead be regulated. See healthcare.

Between California and the federal government the public is already going to receive half the value of the equity in cash. The only question is will they buy back in ?

Once they IPO, the public will in fact own much of them.

If I'm being entirely honest, I actually do not think that Donald Trump being de-facto CEO of OpenAI and Anthropic is a great idea. In fact, I do not think that Joe Biden being that is a great idea, but I definitely think we would have ruined this technology if we had Trump in charge of it. It's much better this way, where he expresses some power in his role as the government's chief executive and the founders of the AI companies comply in the way they do or resist in the way they do.

In addition, what would the public do with AI companies? They think that AI inference sucks up oceans of water. The same thing would happen here as happened to nuclear reactors after the NRC was made - it would take half a century before the first reactor approved after the NRC was set up to start up.

Aaron Swartz died for nothing.

I don’t have an opinion on this specific proposal, but I am glad to hear a politician talking about the effects of AI.

I feel like I’m going crazy sometimes. Over the next few years we will see the biggest change to employment our country has ever seen. Our entire financial structure is about to be upended, and not a single politician is talking about it. It’s so weird that all I think about is AI, yet not a single politician seems to notice. (Or maybe they do and that’s why they’re pillaging the country.)

Why does the public have a right to expropriate the property if AI companies specifically, as opposed to other types of companies? Just make broad rules that apply to everyone based on abstract principles. I’m fine even with very liberal economic approaches. If we want to raise corporate tax rates to 30%, fine, do that. Want to get creative? Half the equity of every company goes into a public fund. But this case by case, “sure is a nice company you got there” stuff is third-world shit.

This would have a massive chilling effect on the private sector as a whole. IMO it would completely destroy investment in America. American companies and markets get extraordinary investor interest due to strong property rights. Once those rights are gone there will be massive capital flight and greatly reduced investment.

Imo this proposal is even worse than a billionaire wealth tax (which has all sorts of implementation issues).

The fact that AI is largely trained on unlicensed IP from the people is probably the single most coherent argument in favor of govt forced socialism on private entities I've probably ever considered.  Not that I agree with all of the statements, assertions or point in TFA.

I say this as a conservative leaning libertarian even.

The thought I've toyed with was forcing public companies in some industries to issue some percentage of stocks to the government...  And then using incentives to get them to pay dividends.

Grab Sears and JC Penney while you're in there.

As long as they're non-voting shares, I don't see the harm.

I assume not enough politicians in this senator's camp were given their early cut so this is retribution/a lesson to the abstract "Big Tech" to show that DC is still the city that rules the world.

I strongly dislike the belief that people should be compensated when others find ingenious ways to profit off of publicly-available data.

We live in a world where "creating value" (doing things that others find helpful) and "capturing value" (getting those people to pay you money) are two different things. If I give my mom a hug, I'm creating value, but that's not necessarily something I'm going to charge her for it. Most value created by people won't ever be captured. And that's a good thing imo.

It keeps the world moving, removes friction, and allows for authenticity. There's nothing wrong with wanting to capture value, of course. But the second you do that, you're a business. And "capturing value" has a huge set of tasks and responsibilities you now have to handle.

But there's an intuition that has gradually built up over centuries, alongside the growth of "intellectual property" as a concept. It's best paraphrased as, "I want to be compensated for the value I create, without doing any of the work to capture it. And if someone else finds an ingenious way to capture some of the value that I've created, then they should pay me."

To some degree, I understand and agree with the sentiment.

Nothing is built in a vacuum. No person or company is an island. Everything is built on top of public infrastructure and works created by the country, laid by our forefathers. This is just one of many reasons why I believe in a progressive tax system. To the extent that you're able to capture large amounts of value in America, a lot of that is made possible by the infra you're building on top of, which is owned by the public, and a progressive tax system is a good way to to share that with the public.

(Of course, this has its own problems, bc the government collecting taxes is not enough, it has to spend those funds wisely, for the benefit of all. Which it obviously doesn't do, at the federal level, or at many state and city levels. So I've always found it a bit perplexing for people to clamor for more taxation while caring little about how tax revenues are spent. But that's a discussion for another time.)

But overall, I don't like this intuition, because it's essentially rent-seeking behavior.

Capturing value is hard. Simply creating value is not enough. If you write a song, or you build an app, or you cook a meal, you still have all your work ahead of you to find a customer/consumer, and understand what they find valuable enough to pay for, and ensure your offering matches that, and do the marketing/sales to get it in front of them, and convince them to pay, and scale to more people, and manage your books, and do all of this profitably.

Expecting to be paid for simply creating value but doing none of the work to capture the value to me feels a little bit entitled. Or, at the very least, naive.

What's interesting is that certain industries have more or less entitlement here, depending on the influence of "intellectual property" in that industry.

For example, there's almost no concept of intellectual property in the cooking. If you invent a new recipe, you can't really patent it and tell everybody else that they're not allowed to make it. So, pretty much every chef is okay with the fact that they need to actually capture value by opening a restaurant or going to work for one.

It's similar in the software industry, where rather than patenting all of our software and trying to enforce it, we generally do the opposite and release software in an open-source way. We're quite aware that if we want to profit, we'll need to start our own startup, and we have no qualms with that.

But with writing, music, etc., you see a lot more creators who want to just do the creation part, who don't want to do the business part, but who then want the profits that the business part enables.

I can empathize for sure, I get it. But I think a world with less rent-seeking behavior is better. A world where more people understand what it takes to capture value and are willing to do it (or happy to just not do it) is a better world. A world where more people feel entitled to the profits earned by those who are able to capture value, I think, is worse.

Hackers should think of slavery reparations when they think of Sanders' proposal. Not as an equivalent, but as a more credible and similarly untenable idea. Sanders' being to take from those who produce to give to those who likely had almost no hand in the production, and with certainly no attempt to discern what contribution that may have been.

The public includes the rest of the world, not just a small minority living in the United States.

If the public wants to own half of the AI company, then they should invest enough to buy half of it. Taking private property away without compensation is stealing. What the government did with Intel where they got 10% in stock was a bit better because Intel got money.

I love it, this is exactly the kind of thing government is meant to do, bring externalities to profit under control. There is something that's been stolen from all of us, collectively, and certain authors and artists, specifically, the creative soul  we all pour into our expression, here, there, and everywhere online.

I yeeted my Reddit account as soon as I learned it was being used, without my consent, to train AI. I now have regrets, that I didn't delete all my comments there recursively first. However, because everything I posted there (and I posted quite a bit!) is part of the training data, it's interesting to know that every future AI is going to have a little bit of my resistance to authority, and lateral thinking, and just a bit of uppity in it, because of me.  ;-)

So, to yank part of the profits from our stolen soul back, via a TAX, seems quite reasonable to this Citizen of the United States. No money going out, just asserting authority, and collecting something on behalf of all of us, is a brilliant strategy for offsetting part of the theft they did first.

Taking 50% of a few valuable companies for no compensation is just expropriation. Not that this has political legs, but even if it did, expect an enormous fight. The more obviously legal (and stupendously expensive) route would be eminent domain.

Lately I've been thinking about digital co-ops. Imagine a member owned server farm for running private AI models and cloud services. It could be small, like a neighborhood or citywide project running on cobbled together used hardware like that post the other day where someone got an older server GPU running on his PC. Or it could be a small data center for small businesses and individual users to use. Members could have more privacy than giving all their data to companies like Google and they could have a say in what hardware is used and what type of energy generation is used to power it. There seem to have been more posts over the last couple years about running home media servers and getting away from subscription services; maybe something like that could be an alternative to what we have now.

Strictly speaking, the big A.I. companies _want_ the public to own half of them. Passively. In index ETFs in their 401(k)s and other retirement portfolios. That way the get all the money without any of the actual influence.

Better idea, mandate 4 days work week and 30 days PTO, the labor squeeze such law would cause will bring wages up and offsets AI productivity boost impact and pays people back in lifetime.

Under no conditions should the government own AI companies.  The government has its hands in too many companies already.  What needs to happen is stricter enforcement of copyright laws and intellectual property rights.  In other words, AI training data should be curtailed substantially until such time as the companies are willing to pay for it.  It's no different than the various other internet piracy issues, e.g., movies and music.  Just more hype at the moment.  That too will pass.

The thing about owning is that it messes up the incentives. If the government owns something, it will be tempting to intervene if it loses value. And when he government needs money, they often sell at stupid prices. I think taxing makes more sense.

To paraphrase Margin Call, the pubic will soon be left holding the biggest bag of odorous Xcrement assembled in the history of IPOs.

We will all own half, just not the good half.

Instead of "The Public.." read it as "The Government Should Own Half of the Big A.I. Companies" because that's what it really means. It doesn't sound all that great now does it? Imagine what a red/blue administration would do with complete control of those AI capabilities.

The public should own more than half. Via the stock market. Where public shareholders can vote in elections to control the Board of Directors, and elect Directors that act in the fiduciary interests of shareholders, and return excess capital to shareholders by issuing dividends. Where any member of the public can decide to buy or sell shares, being the most important development in the democratization of wealth development in all of human history, second only to the index fund that let members of the public put wealth development on autopilot?

When did public ownership mean that the government needed to be the owner? And when did we start to allow companies to float so few shares that public shareholder voting rights became largely meaningless?

This is more interesting than it looks, because it's using normal corporate control rather than regulation.

Obviously the current stakeholders hate losing control and wealth, but that's not the biggest issue.

Senator Sander's goal is not for some vast public to share the wealth, but for the government to have a veto on what gets done, to limit the collateral damage/exported costs.  That's a classical government function.

However, the record of regulatory capture is nearly perfect, so it's likely the reverse would be achieved: the government-sponsored providers being a required intermediary in all knowledge work, with a corresponding incentive to seize those reins.

The probabilistic range of possibilities looks bleak: Now that all regulatory or quasi-governmental agencies of any import (Fed, FDA, EPA, Congress, Courts, CPB) have demonstrated remarkable plasticity to political whim, one would anticipate the worst would come of creating a political franchise out of fighting for control over AI; it would corrupt other aspects of politics.

Now, they have replaced aluminum with lead to increase the strength of the binding of the pairs in the semiconductor, and the key quantum states last 20 seconds

Anyone want to give a layman-ish explanation of why aluminum versus lead makes such a huge difference?

When quantum computing becomes mainstream, what will be the first standard programming language? I wonder what the 'C' of quantum computers will be

We failed at AI, let see if Quantum sticks

> You have 1 remaining free news stories.

> [Continue]

> You have reached your limit of 3 free news stories.

> A.I. is built on our collective intelligence: our books, songs, artwork, journalism, computer code, scientific research, videos, conversations, images and ideas spanning generations

I know many here would scoff at nationalizing a private company, but AI is a usurpation of human knowledge and quite literally at times. (Every AI company was embroiled in copyright lawsuits and lord knows what Qwen et al are up to.)

In turn, everyone knows labor displacement is coming. My bet is the next recession will end up being brutal for this reason. To me, labor displacement and the social consequences are a potentially *catastrophic* negative externality. Should not there be a tax to offset the "frictional" unemployment? What happens when people lose a high skill job and will no longer be able to afford their mortgage?

Also, why are people always talking about AI as if its an angel or satan? The degree to which we're doomed is an open question, much like a tornado... so why aren't we thinking about taxes on AI like a tornado insurance fund?

This is so lame, it seems like a small number of pedophiles have forced us to deal with all this age verification stuff.

Porn has always been around (national geographic, anyone), and parents can use screen time to limit access for their children if they want.

Why half of AI and not half of Walmart & Exxon & Apple?

Government spending is already ~40% of GDP.

And what do we get with this half?

A sovereign wealth fund?  That seems like a great tool for a certain corrupt politician to use as a carrot to make CEO's bend to his/her whims.

What benefit does that have for anyone else?

You can't build a sovereign wealth fund if you're transferring all the money out.  That's just more government spending, not a wealth fund...

"Tech giant Microsoft announced today it plans to build a useful quantum computer in just 3 years"

Leading with this dubious claim is fine comedy. Microsoft can barely build a useful conventional computer that runs its own platform and associated products. The Surface Book 3's being used at my job all launch Teams, Excel and Outlook like they're perpetually struggling to get out of bed. The Surface Pros have display issues minutes out of the box. This foolish Dash to Quantum will result in a lot of disappointment as unreliable rushed-to-market hardware is tauted by companies like Microsoft that are historically fond of doing just that.

And no, I don't think quantum computing is all hype. There is definitely meat on the bone, even if it only returns us to the somewhat annoying days of time sharing that most HN readers are probably too young to remember. But these idiots are fueling the hype train for the sake of quick-buck valuation, puffing for an audience that is increasingly tired of over-promising and under-delivering to the point where we will finally have an actual quantum computer  and nobody will give a shit, especially after this whole AI circus has continued to prove itself an expensive pagent full of mummers and gimmicks.

Will QC make LLMs faster/better?

Good arguments there, and for once addressing privacy-preserving age verification.

I just don't like that proponents of age verification are systematically (including in this article) dismissed as authoritarians hiding behind "just another “what about the children” excuse to introduce mass surveillance and censorship". Many people genuinely want to find a solution that is better for the children, and telling them "if you are open to age verification you are either a fascist or a moron" is not constructive.

Also I find the way ZKP is criticised a bit manipulative. It kinda implies that "fundamentally, any kind of ZKP system can be switched off remotely and without anyone realising", and that is wrong. It can be implemented in such a way that people have pretty good guarantees about it preserving their privacy, similar to end-to-end encryption. I find it hypocritical to say "E2EE can be reasonably trusted, but privacy-preserving age verification fundamentally cannot", just because tech people like the former and not the latter.

[dead]

[flagged]

[dead]

It really looks like they are trying hard to scale a system that is simply explained away by a simpler model... From TFA:

  The switching behavior they see could just be an electron hopping on and off a quantum dot, perhaps one formed incidentally by part of the wirelike region, Legg says. “This is exactly what you could get from a quantum dot.”

I won't pretend I have a deep understanding of any of this, so the only parameters I can judge is the consensus of people that do, and these people aren't too happy about the claims being made.

Honestly, I'm kind of glad this is happening. Online is a bottomless well of libertarians and anarchists and Blueskiers and QAnons. It was always a neckbeard paradise.

It's not just kids it's bad for. Too many people don't have the agency or social/emotional insight to take care of themselves.

[flagged]

[flagged]

Of course. Anyone who has even a little life experience knows that children, even more so, teenagers, will circumvent these measures, so they will fail at scale.

But what won't fail is the obligation to provide your id to 'verification providers', who are obligated to provide it to websites, all of which are obligated to hand over your identity to the authorities the moment they ask - the verification provider included.

So it's just mass surveillance, finally sold to the public through 'think of the children!'.

i think in most cases sites like HN for example would be exempt due to not having enough users.

The internet used to a technology people used to do interesting things, and with that came all its expectations. Now in addition to that, it is how modern live is negotiated. What used an optional thing is now a critical infrastructure upon which a person's life revolves, in most cases without any choice of their own.

When you drive your car on the road, do you complain about not having "a free road like back in the day" for being require to have a driver's license, and a registered car? not too long ago, you didn't need any of that to ride a horse or horse and carriage.

A free internet, as in the internet is like a public square, that isn't what society wants. Ultimately that is the issue, and you can't fault the public either. The public expects change, things to improve, and policy makers need tools with which they can enforce their policies. Telling both parties "um..no, i like my freedoms" won't stop the this train.

Let's take the example of mullvad here, and being able to purchase a VPN with bitcoin/cash (been there, am a customer) and access any site. It is entirely reasonable for governments to not want that. but the real enemy is the acceptance of this false dicthotomy of extremes. one of the things the internet has allowed us to have is to be able to prove entitlements without disclosing our identity. It is possible to prove that meet whatever legal requirements by having a government notarize a certificate of identity which you can present to sites and software as proof, while removing the government's own knowledge of what sites or software you're using, and removing your identity from the sites that are verifying your entitlements.

You're allowed to be in public without having to prove your identity (well.. that used to be the case in the US at least, now if you look like an immigrant, no longer the case). But to sell things, or buy restricted items, you have to show your identity, even in public. Certain businesses are required to verify your identity before engaging in commerce. Even worse, once you're in public everyone can record everything you do an identify you. Facial recognition, license place tracking, etc.. are all very real parts of the physical world today.

Lots of reform is needed, but we're getting the worst end of it because people gravitate to extremes out of laziness. if accessing social media, sensitive sites and commerce could be done in a privacy preserving way, there is no need for (or you can make a strong argument against) silly things like installing ubuntu requiring your ID, or needing to verify visitors IDs to your personal blog.

Whilst getting excited about 'loss of freedom' the reason these companies are getting forced into this is because they've become so large, fundamentally evil and untrustworthy that we can't regulate them in to doing better so we have to ban  susceptible citizens from consuming their output. See tobacco, alcohol, porn, cannabis, driving licences for other examples. /s

Social media itself was the beginning of the end. Once we largely replaced a decentralized networks of blogs and websites with 4 giant sites containing content copied from the other 3 the jig was up. Many of the social media sites don't play nice with search engines and include features that auto-delete content or block linking to other websites as well.

I hate it and I hate that this is what became popular instead of what the internet was in its heyday. It's sad to see.

> Today, 30 people are arrested every day in the United Kingdom for posting something online that authorities classify as “grossly offensive.”

It doesn't really help their case to parrot Musk-level misinformation...

https://www.pragencyone.co.uk/blog/elon-musk-misinformation-...

https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/wales-englan...

cool to see the eu pushing on the zkp approach. that was my first instinct when i read about this. add a zkp header to http with optional upgrading to "adult" content and it's done.

One more reason not to use social media. Except anon discussion boards.

Good!

Internet has become a messy and dangerous place. Anybody with money can access it, that not necessarily means somebody with common sense.

90s, early 2000s, we would go to the internet to have good time.

2020s, people are ditching internet and new techs to afford having an offline life.

hey claude build me a small social media site i can use with my friends...

the beginning of the freedom of every person to become a developer

Social media has never been a part of free internet

There is no bona fide desire to solve the problem by the social media companies which are profiting from our kids. As a parent, I can never find the option to enable parental controls on apps like YouTube (especially on TV). This option is easy enough to implement locally without requiring any accounts or OS-level age support. However, clearly the goal is not to protect the children but to enable mass scale surveillance and profit from it.
Even when I manage to enable parental controls by using a dedicated app or account (what nonsense is it that I need to create an account to restrict access!!!) the content being served is dubiously appropriate for the age group, aside from having no value whatsoever other than the intended goal of perpetuating addiction.

Mullvad VPN is great. Mullvad Browser is a great balance for preventing fingerprinting and also usability vs the Tor Browser. Most browsers I've found, even ones with claimed fingerprinting protections, are easily traced by fingerprint.com and other tests. Mullvad beats it.

There's this cool new feature that they added to the Mullvad browser extension, which is built into the Browser. It gives you a random different proxy for each site, kind of like the Tor Browser.

Mullvad understands that VPNs overpromise and underdeliver, but if you combine a trustworthy VPN, a fingerprint-resistant browser, and uBlock Origin, you get a damn good internet privacy. The browser is not ideal for daily-driving because it's always incognito so you get signed out on close, but I heard they're working on a persistent version.

Does anyone think of social media as free?

I've said this before and I'll say it again. Just like radio was the wild west back when it first started, the internet is so today and eventually it will be licensed and regulated in the same way.

"Will the police stop and search people on the street looking for unauthorized phones? Prison sentences for buying a non-state computer on the black market? Charges of organized crime for smuggling in containers of open-source software on USB sticks?"

Come on, do people seriously believe this will happen?

Well, no, certainly not the beginning of the end.

> consequence of introducing identity verification is therefore that freedom of information is restricted (you can no longer visit regulated websites anonymously) and that you can no longer post anonymously on social media.

on which major social media networks can you post anonymously today? HN is a rare bird in that regard.

None of the social media networks my teens are bugging me to sign up for (IG, TT, Snapchat, etc.) have anonymous registration.

just leave the walled gardens

“Introducing age verification is based on the state being able to force social media companies to verify their users’ identities”

Users have been doing this themselves without state coercion for twenty years now by putting their real names all over Facebook and all the other socials. Nobody forced them to use their real names and post countless pictures of their faces alongside, and pour out the totality of their worthless opinions on every issue.  Compared to this, when considered sensibly, the verification is almost a trivial step.

I think the solution would be to make the business model of surveillance capitalism unfeasible. If algorithmic social media would be prohibited from offering their services for free, it would solve most of the problems the age verification laws are trying to achieve. Kids would basically disappear if their parents are not paying for them. Most parents would disappear too in fact, which would be good for everyone's mental health. And it wouldn't remove choice. You can still choose to use use Facebook or TikTok, if you subscribe and pay. It would basically act like a slop tax.

Age verification is a project 2025 backdoor to ban porn, and also a way for Meta and others to advertise much more aggressively without violating age restrictions, and also a mass surveillance opportunity for the government. It is definitely not for the children or anyone’s safety. It threatens the most basic civil rights we have like free speech. The fact that so many people blindly support it is really depressing and disturbing.

Social media (et al) already know each user's age.

They could "protect the children" at will. They simply choose not to.

Why this kabuki?

  "Yes, please, regulate us" while making any formal regulation moot?

  Directing attention away from the bot plague?

  Pushing age verification to protect their algorithmic hate machines?

  Monkey motion to avoid talking about true privacy? (Specifically, all data encrypted *at rest* using translucent database strategies.)

In conclusion, I can't treat these age verification proposals as good faith efforts while the core rot of the social medias remain unmitigated.

If (big if) governments really wanted to help parents and children in any meaningful  way, they would ban the actual hardware used to give constant access to these platforms.

The ability to seamlessly record, upload, comment, react on _everything_, _everwhere_, _all the time_ is not natural, and not necessary.

Let them keep the devices, whatever, but remove the internet access.

Or keep the internet access, but remove the display/audio/camera.

It's more enforceable in public than trying to enforce whatever age verification solution they come up with.

And it gives parents the ability to appeal to authority when they ask their children, and the parents of their child's friends, to stop giving kids access to such devices. Right now a lone parent trying to push for better/healthier online activity to their friend group looks like a crazy person.

But of course we know they aren't really interested in helping parents and children. They want the surveillance capabilities.

When should children be given a smartphone?

The answer is whenever you think your child is ready to view porn.

Linux + Website needs to return as the ultimate form of self publishing. Back when an internet search was the platform.

Interesting that no one is talking about identity verification likely coming anyway. I’m working on clawchrome.com, a real browser for agents. It can access any website because it’s the real browser.

I sure hope agents don’t swarm  social media. But at the same time I think identity verification companies have a tougher problem, ai can produce real looking videos and documents. There’s probably no real way to verify someone purely through the internet at this point.

IMO it's the end of the end of a free Internet. Toxic social media traffic, spam bots, hackers, and AI have taken over the majority of internet traffic a long time ago, thus the beginning of the end passed by as we slept.

So there are walled gardens with restrictions. The internet will route around these restrictions.

I'm so tired of this constant pressure.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralized_web

Just wishful thinking, but I hoped more will move to IRC and GPG emails.

10 years ago I thought all the cool cats would be hanging out on old skool communities on Tor via meshnet connections.

Instead, in 10 years I'll probably have to log in with an iris scan to check the (ai-powered) time, and pay for the privilege.

>and that you can no longer post anonymously on social media. You cannot be certain that your criticism of the government will not be followed up by the authorities.

sorry but I don't get this point. If you're on Instagram or Facebook, did you think fifteen different three letter agencies weren't already watching you? It has the word 'face' in the name, the entire point of that site is that people mindlessly share their personal information, it's not some underground space for activists.

You can be perfectly anonymous on the internet, but demanding to be anonymous on Facebook is like trying to start a Das Kapital book club at Goldman Sachs or decrying commercial culture while you're in a Disneyland theme park

Growing up I remember all the ads about avoiding narcotics talking about getting hooked on free samples and then going to jail for theft and/or possession. The people behind that propaganda didn't know drugs do cost money, dealers being dorky teens and twenty-somethings who are about as dangerous as a butterfly. But this propaganda also illustrates how some elements aren't very bright. The internet age with free email, free social media, etc. got everyone hooked and now Zuckerberg, et al. are giving doe-eyed, hat-in-hand, and crying poverty. If people were wise to those PSAs, past and present, they'd see how the loyal opposition has been playing with their cards face-up on the table under the guise of good intentions. Much like the pedophile scare during the teens, pun unintended, with Comet Ping Pong and then come 2024 it's revealed Epstein and his cadre of deviant cronies were doing it all along while deflecting poorly to innocent parties. Goodness knows what else is still right in front of our noses but their reality hasn't come to fruition in the zeitgest.

I hope [semi-]decentralized applications like Hyphanet and Matrix take off with teens as the lockdowns ensue, because they will grow into adults with the same cyber/cipherpunk mentality we '80s & '90s kids grew up with.

Rule 1 of The Internet hasn't changed, it's: never put your real info into the boxes.  Never!

Age verification is fine, at least in theory. It’s the implementations that are bad.

More and more people agree that kids shouldn’t be on modern social media, including me. But most people also agree that mass surveillance is dangerous. The solution is to propose ways to block kids from modern social media (that actually works) without mass surveillance.

Better parental controls, more parental education, and site-specific age verification (Facebook etc. can require whatever PII they want to use their service) backed by incentives (whitelisting in parental controls, promoted as a “safe site” in parental education). Are these enough? Maybe not, but maybe mandatory ID and blocking VPNs aren’t enough as evidenced by people bypassing them. These (first three) are progress, that don’t yet require mass surveillance, and we can first see how effective they are then go from there.

I wish people wouldn’t say “age verification is bad”, it’s like “anti-work” and “defund the police”.

The problem is kids on social media. This doesn't need to be a problem for anyone except social media companies and social media users. Sloppy policymaking is making it a broader problem, but I don't think this is some nefarious scheme (at least in the U.S., it looks sketchier in Europe). It's just policymakers pulling the first proposal off the shelf to respond to intense demand for a policy from voters.

Isn't age verification actually a good thing? If you want a free internet, you don't let your kids browse these websites. Otherwise, it allows you to make sure they aren't watching "hurtful" content.

It would be an excellent case for zero-knowledge cryptography:

All that you need to know is that I am above 18 years of age.

You don't need to know how old I am, what my birthday is, what state I was born in, my gender, or when my passport expires.

The downside with ZK cryptography is the complexity. Something would have to be insanely inconvenient to justify it.

If you deleted all your social media and AI platform accounts today you would wake up tomorrow and be no worse off.

Yeah a lot is about to change with this all. I've already picked my side and nope not gonna ID to use your website. Will do without, fine with that.

I warned people about 4 years ago that this would happen. Checking people's IDs online for accessing certain kinds of porn on telegram and Discord is much more popular than you would have thought.

I told these admins this was immensely irresponsible. They said they just didn't want to get sued by an angry parent whose child joined some porn group. I was mocked endlessly. Now this. I'm not surprised.

There isn't much left of the free Internet anyway. Search engines no longer work, all discussion forums are ranked/censored by interest groups, mail delivery is between large entities.

Maybe we need an alternative set of root servers for a free Internet.

I wonder (and don't hear anyone talking about it) if kids can't upload on social media and "publishing" platforms. Can they still host a website?

I know that my fascination with computers largely began with creating websites and messing about with HTML. Blog platforms can be considered social media I suppose but what if it is just a page of HTML or text?

Should I worry about having to verify my age/identity if I want to host a page on a vps in the future?

I feel like most politicians and people don't understand privacy and the impact of breaking it. Additionally seems the governments don't consider themselves a thread vector for privacy invasion.

ZKP is definitely a good idea, definitely more open for this kind of age verification than anything else. 
And I don't buy the argument of "closing internet", social networks are a proprietary service and if you don't want to obey with the regulations, create your own website and post things there if you want. However you have to provide your identity to the domain name registry or to the intermediary. Also other services require you to verify your age or even provide your identity, this is just another one that comes way too late.

As a parent, what I find effective are content rating systems, be it for movies, games or apps, along with the ability to control and fine-tune them.

For example, with Apple's parental controls, I can blanket-decline access to Social Media apps, or to apps recommended for a specific age or older, and I can also allow exceptions as I see it fit (for example, my kids have no access to WhatsApp but they are allowed to use Signal, both have the same age recommendations)

This moves the responsibility for age verification to me, the parent, and provides me with suitable tools to monitor this. With this, there is no need for my kid or me to upload sensitive data or go through some bad age verification implementation.

Websites are more difficult to control, but not impossible.

Long story short - improve tooling for parents that allow more centralized control instead of mandating social media to do the age verification on their end.

None of this age verification is about children.  The end of the free internet is the point.

EU law gives every citizen a right to a bank account.

I wonder if EU law could give every citizen a right to a google or Apple account, including a forced recovery option if the account is 'deactivated'?

If at some point such an account becomes essential to function in society, access to such an account becomes a legal mandate.

Oracle CEO told openly how this is how they will control us. They are not even embarrassed anymore

So, to post something in 2027:

- You have to have an approved browser.

- It has to be installed on an approved platform, Google or Apple, for which you have a valid account.

- You have to have an account on the posting platform.

- You have to get past moderation on the posting platform.

That's without age verification.

The article says that California "will require identity verification at the operating system level starting in January 2027", but that isn't true. The bill [0] only requires that operating systems collect age information on account setup and then provide which of four buckets the age falls into. It's not requiring any kind of identity verification by the OS. It's just a box you fill in when you set up the computer.

I think that this is actually a reasonable approach. It minimizes the information shared and doesn't create any identity tracking regime.

[0] https://media.reclaimthenet.org/docs/california-ab-1043-digi...

As a parent of teenagers, I feel like the sites make it hard for parents.

When they were young, you had a choice between YouTube being completely locked down with no option to whitelist channels or letting them watch almost anything (although I think this has changed since but it's too late now for those of us with children that age).

Now, there is no way I can whitelist contact/groups on WhatsApp or Discord servers/friends. Once they hit 13, pretty much any option to restrict anything feels taken away from you as a parent.

Luckily, I have sensible children (I think!) but it's really hard as a parent trying to both be reasonably responsible, but not deny all technology, it's really hard to navigate a sensible course.

paper: https://doi.org/10.15184/aqy.2026.10359

also: 
>the material record offers indirect evidence for distributed authority. Indus seals, small stone stamps that likely facilitated exchange and credit, were found primarily in private residences at Mohenjo-daro rather than in temples or central administrative buildings.

Speculative, of course. But cool data & approach. And it doesn't have to prove anything, except that it's plausible there are other ways to structure societies, that can have different results.

It's a pleasant finding but not surprising. In all the excavations done over time in indus valley, they never found any weapons or any signs of war. I have this book with pretty cool illustrations if anyone wants a light read on this topic -

https://www.amazon.com/dp/014345532X?ref=ppx_yo2ov_dt_b_fed_...

I am not related to the author in anyway. i heard about this book on a podcast and bought it.

This could also be a story of technological progress. A thought experiment - imagine you, an archaeologist, recovered the remains of our civilization, from roughly 1925 to 2025, but the only surviving artifact was televisions. You know that televisions are valuable - initially only wealthy families had them - so you used them as a proxy for riches and plotted the Gini coefficient using just the size, quality, resolution, color depth, etc. You could conclude that our society became less unequal over that period, because you miss that technology dramatically compressed the distribution of this resource and that household wealth was freed up to put to other purposes.

Entire civilization flourished for 2000 years and then disappeared without any clue why.

I have a pet theory about Indus Valley script - inscriptions on the seals are so short and unique because they are just name signatures, to stamp other objects.

Having to be durable, they were the only inscribed objects that survived.

A David Graeber inspired study!?

In case you haven't heard of it: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dawn_of_Everything

Nearly ideal. The only stopper for me is missing a way to add source level debugging info.

It's absolutely a slippery slope - but most parents know how this is a very real thing as well. There's no controversy in having drugs, guns, alcohol, porn and other things 'behind the counter' - the intellectual debate over freedom of information is clouded by ideology.

Definitely the 'slippery slope' debate is worth having, but that's way more relevant than the 'should 10-year-olds be able to do whatever' (aka all or nothing internet) which I think, if we took a vote, most people would be fine with nominal age restrictions, on that basis and on that basis alone aka outside the 'scary government' issue, which is again, real and material but nevertheless a separate concept however pragmatically engulfed these things are.

Can someone help me understand? Why is it not enough to just be able to manually set an age on local OS user account. If unset assume adult. If set applications can use it to verify age. Require admin permissions to change. All responsibility on parents to restrict admin and set the age. No data collection. No responsibility for services beyond a simple check. It seems like an incredibly simple solution with very little compromise on either side that gets everyone 95% of their stated goals.

EDIT: Oh it seems like that’s what the CA bill does? Seems good to me. I have zero problem with age restriction if age verification goes no further than mom buys kid iPhone enters birthdate, Instagram asks phone is user 18.

Windows support is huge. One of the barriers to me considering QBE for a project in recent memory was that it had no story for proprietary OSes (Windows, MacOS), and whether I like it or not, those make up the overwhelming majority of desktop-like market share. (this is the same reason I find Hare, a language that builds with QBE, interesting but not practical for my own uses - targeting only Linux and the BSDs is a non-starter, even if I personally am a Linux-only guy)

It's bizarre that the Indian subcontinent is now known for poverty, high inequality and the caste system, when its ancient civilizational counterpart seemed to be the opposite.

Genetically and linguistically, it's indisputable that the Indo-Aryan languages were transplants brought in by a small  external group. This was followed by Islamic invasions and then British imperialism, followed by partition, and the recent ascendency of Hindu nationalism, yet the core people have been remarkably stable over thousands of years.

Online, at least, the levels of hatred and resentment seem off-the-charts. China, on the other hand seems to be growing by leaps-and-bounds, while India seems to be getting consumed by internal hatreds, and Pakistan seems to focus on the security threat posed by India, enriching a corrupt political and military elite at the expense of its own development.

I have to wonder if we'll ever find out the exact point where it all went wrong.

[dead]

Back to the internet's peer-to-peer roots.  Many protocols besides the www

The www became infested with so-called "tech" companies acting as intermediaries (middlemen)

Lots of folks making money from surveillance ad system on the www.  Oversized, unmanageable websites calling themselves "platforms"

The www is an ad network.  Not a great place for non-commercial activity

Fortunately, the internet is more than the www.  The internet was not created to collect behavioral data and deliver advertising as its primary purpose

People pay for an internet subscription, not a www subscription (or now a "social media subscription")

So will hare now support windows?

One very simple way to give parents control over what their children see and participate in without violating everyone else’s privacy is to create adult and social TLDs and require these sites to migrate to them. So instagram.com becomes instagram.social, etc. Then mandate that all consumer network equipment mfrs and internet providers provide easily accessible ways to block these TLDs. Maybe combine that with some public education materials to teach less savvy parents how to do this.

Now you’ve given every parent a way to easily mass block all adult/social sites/apps if they want and no one’s privacy need be compromised.

> The study also raises broader questions about how early cities functioned. Archaeologists often link urban growth with centralized political power and rising social divisions. Mohenjo-daro points toward another model, one where collective governance and public investment shaped the city’s long-term stability.

Fascinating. I hope that discoveries like this increase the interest of the public in investing in historical research... so much of our theory of the world is shaped by a narrow focus on the history of areas that were easier (relatively) to study.

Related. Others?

QBE – Compiler Back End - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48059633 - May 2026 (28 comments*)

Blaise – A modern self-hosting zero-legacy Object Pascal compiler targeting QBE - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48058644 - May 2026 (55 comments)

Qbecc – QBE based C compiler - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45461195 - Oct 2025 (3 comments)

Let's write a peephole optimizer for QBE's ARM64 back end - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45099348 - Sept 2025 (1 comment)

QBE – Compiler Back End - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40346320 - May 2024 (37 comments)

cproc – Small C11 compiler based on QBE - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=32466098 - Aug 2022 (1 comment)

QBE 1.0 - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31846433 - June 2022 (3 comments)

I wrote a peephole optimizer for QBE - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=30864448 - March 2022 (5 comments)

Cproc C Compiler - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=28242024 - Aug 2021 (45 comments)

Cproc – a C11 compiler using QBE as a back end - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=25273918 - Dec 2020 (1 comment)

QBE vs. LLVM - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=25273907 - Dec 2020 (99 comments)

Show HN: QBE – a new compiler back end - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=11555527 - April 2016 (68 comments)

(* Normally a thread that recent with significant comments would count as a dupe (https://news.ycombinator.com/newsfaq.html), but it didn't get that much frontpage time so I've made an exception.)

[dead]

Mohenjo-Daro, the Norway of the Ancient World!

"Trade practices show a similar pattern. Indus seals, used for business and administration, turned up in common homes across the city. Archaeologists did not find evidence showing rulers controlled access to these objects. Standardized weights and measures spread throughout the region as well, helping create consistent trade practices."

I've done a lot of reading on this particular subject and I think the "stateless utopia" conclusion so many researchers seem to be fishing for (Graeber etc) is more nonsensical than they let on. They didn't have monumental temples or palaces, that seems to be it.

Yet there is tons of documentary evidence "Meluhha" was engaged in a pretty sophisticated scale of commodity production (artisanal carnelian beads) and export trade with Dilmun and Sumer. Their standardized weight system was used for this trade, and they're found elsewhere in large numbers as the article says. They even had expats living in Sumer who were noted as translators (of the Indus valley seals??) This trade is where a lot of their obvious wealth probably came from, since they'd have copious silver revenue from Dilmun.

"Archaeologists did not find evidence showing rulers controlled access to these objects."

Like really, think about it. These weights were very precise. And they had to be, because "weight" was basically equivalent to "money." So there had to be a standard, and that standard had to be enforced when the weights were produced. And the weights had to remain trustworthy as they were distributed elsewhere for use in the trade. Someone was obviously "in charge" lol

Is QBE intended for production use, or is it primarily a research/educational project?

I love that there are compilers beside the big 2 with a simple API, and small enough codebase, that produce decent-enough code, but damn did I make an honest effort to crack the QBE source code, and it is just impenetrable, not only because the difficulty of the domain, but the code is just arcane.

It was one of the projects that made me realize what the arcane wizened sages of olden C were capable of - C is not as much a programming language with best practices as a template for one - and many competing ideas and interesting ways of coding have emerged over the ~40 years of C dominance (starting from the emergence of the language, to the early 2000s, around when for various reasons, OOP kinda 'won') - if one abandons all pretense of safety and comfort.

There's this project and MIR - both have the same mad science DNA, QBE being a bit more friendly and well documented, with MIR making faster code - boiling down mostly to the architectural decision that MIR does inlining while QBE does not.

I really want to like QBE, but declaration blocks like this make it feel like 1970s Unix code more than a modern hackable piece of software:

    int t, x, r, rf, rt, nr;
    bits rs;
    Ins *i, *i1;
    Mem *m;
    Ref *ra[4];

I think it deters some users by making it hard to read and understand the relatively subtle code in the 300 line function that follows. (Skill issue, I know)

I’m never hosting or dealing with any companies in Iceland. I had a run in with a hosting company there who was DoS attacking us from compromised nodes. I emailed them and they told me to get a letter from a local lawyer telling them to stop and they’ll look at it. In the end we contacted our DC provider and they dumped all traffic from their entire blocks.

A year later same attitude from a different one hosting a web site for Covid misinformation which was against their own AUP.

Why is it called root shell?

for a moment i thought it was rootshell.be - many many years ago they were giving away shell accounts, and teenager me used to have one for learning purposes (and also for the cool domain)

There is no such thing as E2EE email. You can encrypt your storage or some of the hops, but the plain-text email contents goes through between every layer, unless you're talking about PGP, or some similar scheme you built on top of the email protocol (where obviously both the sender and the recipient must participate).

What does E2EE mean here? If I send an email to someone using rootshell from gmail, doesn't rootshell get the email in plaintext?

[dead]

Not to be confused with rootshell: macOS terminal emulator built with libghostty with powerful features https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=48390029

Excellent! Simple and functional UI, Thank you for this.

Another company tried the Iceland root, and after growing steadily and without reporting issues (at least I never saw anything reported) just shut down one day.

I'd like to know more about the operator, besides them being from USA. Having the data in Iceland sounds great, but we should be wary of any new service designed specifically to attract confidential conversations.

Quick question for the author in case they are here

> encryption key is derived from the password
> One can use the passphrase in case password is lost

What does this really means? is the password encrypted with these pass phrases instead of being hashed?

> Key bundle missing — please try again

I’m trying to create an account to test this service. I get this error message, what does it mean? Why is the error message so short to the point where I (the user) don’t know what to do next? Why can’t software developers learn how to communicate better with their non-tech users? And this is coming from someone with a 30+ years career in software engineering.

edit: after hitting the button “I’ve saved my recovery phrase - continue” multiple times and getting the same repeated error message, it finally worked but then the API returned “error: Registration failed”. And at this point I give up. This is why many projects, even at Big Tech companies, fail: too much friction for new users, or too many features, or too many options to choose from.

You defeated https://www.emailprivacytester.com straight off. Which is more than most new email services. You seem to be relying on CSP entirely for this, but it works.

I thought this was going to be related to the excellent libghostty based iOS terminal client: https://github.com/kitknox/rootshell

I do not understand why anyone would want their email provider to be "E2EE". If I want end-to-end encryption then I will exchange public keys with the recipient.

Nice, the more stand alone non corporate email providers the better.  You have it on a good host.  I've never tried to email from their CIDR blocks, curious how it works out.

It doesn’t work, upon registering, you get “key bundle missing - please try again”

I find it very hard to trust any email service that claims to be E2EE without an audit by a reputable firm like Cure53 or Trail of Bits.

I signed up to give it a brief test and immediately noticed that emails are returned from the server in plain text. This means that the emails are decrypted on the server, which defeats the entire purpose of E2EE. The encrypted email contents and metadata should be returned to the user and decrypted on the client.

It's also painfully obvious that the entire thing is vibe-coded. While that in itself isn't an issue, it raises scrutiny. If the author doesn't have a full understanding of the code their LLM generates, some nasty bugs could be lurking.

Not very promising.

It seems like there’s very little upside to allowing one in your state. They don’t bring in large amounts of new jobs once construction is done, they leech power and water like vampires increasing costs and depleting resources, they add noise and light pollution to nearby areas, they’re ugly. They only seem to benefit large tech companies.

Communist revolution put China behind, but they are realllly catching up fast.

I'm having a Seal delivered next week, really looking forward to it. My friend went from a M3 to a Seal. She does a lot of miles. She says they trade blows, there's things that felt better in the Tesla and things she prefers in the BYD.

[dead]

Back in the days the Chinese used to copy from the German automotive industry. Now it's about time the Germans start to learn from Chinese engineering.

Previous lumafield blog posts have been full of amazing graphics and knowledge.

But this one seems to be "state the obvious" and "recant political talking points with no new evidence".

I want to buy a Chinese car and I am annoyed that my protectionist government won’t let me. Lowering transportation cost would be the most impactful thing to my budget.

All that serves to do is ensure the American car industry falls far behind by being coddled into a lack of competition.

Toyota showed the world the Toyota Production System. What Tesla, Kia/Hyundai, and Chinese EVs have shown American automakers is how much vertical integration can be an asset, especially with the lower part counts of electric vehicles.

The model where every part is contracted out to parts manufacturers is proving to be antiquated.

Genuinely impressed with the article. We need more such articles that re-invigorate our engineering curiosity. Kudos!

[dead]

Time to start learning Mandarin

> Fourteen pins in two parallel rows carry every signal this panel produces to the rest of the vehicle. Automotive connectors are among the most common failure points in modern cars: corrosion, fretting, and thermal cycling work on these joints over years of use. One connector failure on a module this integrated takes out mirrors, windows, locks, and child safety all at once.

Pack that shit full of silicone dielectric grease, check it every year or two, and it should be good for decades.

[flagged]

Yet they still love ordering from Amazon.

CT scans of BYD car components. BYD is fully vertically integrated at a level unseen since early 20th-century Ford.

All you need to know is that BYD cars are good enough that the US had to effectively ban them.

My take: China is now producing cars of such good quality that companies are putting CT-scans of their cars online ..

Been driving Tesla the last 9 years .. entirely possible that my next car will be a BYD.

[dead]

I know it's in it's infancy here, but if it's a solo passion project I'd consider open-sourcing it so the E2EE can be verified.

If you plan on launching this as a monetized project of some sort, I, as a potential customer, would suffice for audits but I'm sure they can get pricey.

I'll give it a shot either way, just my two cents

[dead]

This looks like a stealth advertisement for their CT scanning business. There is nothing educational of value for the general public here.

The only reason you would do this is for competitive analysis and I assure you the other car companies have already analyzed these parts.

I have several friends who used to lament the loss of manufacturing jobs as a ticket to the middle class, but now say they're going to protest a proposed data center, which feels a bit ironic. None really link it to AI's social impact like Gizmodo does here, the argument always starts with "I don't understand what they need a data center for" (often genuinely wanting me to explain it since I work with computers) and then goes into noise, water use, or loss of farmland. I'd probably not want to live near the noise pollution of a data center or any other kind of noisy industry either, so their views aren't incomprehensible or anything (though the farmland one makes zero sense to me), but it does seem like an instance of the revealed preference that many Americans are just deeply skeptical of anything more intensive than an Amazon warehouse going on in their area, even if they enjoy a fantasy version of the country where (usually other) people have a nice union job in a widget factory. It's good to remember when political extremists try to claim there's some easy fix that will make America an industrial powerhouse again; in reality, most of us don't want anything close to that.

Media: "X is horrible!"



Media: "Americans Don't Like X"

This was a super cool article. Very well done. Thank you!

BYD is indeed producing cars by the millions now. Any quality issues would be very apparent at this scale.

Also worth noting that they are very advanced in applying robotics and automation in their factories. Anyone assuming that this is all underpaid Chinese workers doing things manually would be mistaken. And that also means they are very good at maintaining the same level of quality through their production process. So, this is not surprising.

Also in general, the Chinese car market is insanely competitive right now. There's just very little room for manufacturers that deliver low quality products with lots of warranty issues.

For those interested in EV drive-train tear-downs, Munroe Live has some wonderfully detailed videos: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4LfDuyqmsts , https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LeZzEg3GIcg&list=PLkiDlGyJnp...

Nice.

Those are small parts, though. The interesting part is the E-axle. BYD builds a unit with an integrated motor, differential, axle, and wheel hubs. That, plus an electronics box and battery, is the power train. This simplifies vehicles considerably.

There are E-axle teardown videos. There's no big secret about how to do this. Copying this is hard for Detroit, because they have a huge investment in "engine plants".
With this design, BYD doesn't need standalone engine plants.

Tesla ought to be doing this, but they're into performance, not cost. They want to put two or four motors in a car. BYD does make supercars, to show off, but their volume products are reasonably good cars with E-axles and lithium iron phosphate batteries, which work fine. (It's not clear that Tesla is even into car design at all any more, but that's another issue.)

Detroit ought to be doing this, but they insist on making electric cars that are modified gasoline cars. Ford has an electric Mustang, an electric F-150, and an electric Transit. Chrysler doesn't even make cars any more, just one minivan. GM has a good Bolt now, which they are killing to appease Trump.

I wonder why window switch panel uses 14 pins  socket. Wouldn't it be simpler to use 3-4 pins with serial protocol?

BYD biggest innovation may be organizational more than technological

Folded into the base is a mechanical backup key, a flat metal blade in a hinged housing. It reads warmer than everything else in the scan. It exists for the moment the battery dies or the RF link fails. Every BYD keyless entry system includes this fallback.

It's simple things like this which incumbent manufacturers need to avoid losing sight of.

I've got a friend whos a master tech/trainer with our state automotive body, and is HV certified etc for dealing with these cars. He's currently got a BYD Shark strewn across his workshop for an autopsy.

I have to say I'm super impressed with how heavy duty everything is. The control arms, subframes, etc all look good and don't fit the 'chinese car bad' narrative you always hear. The powertrain components all look to be extremely high quality.

I've poked around a few EV's with him now, and I do feel like the Chinese market cars are evolving to a really good standard faster than their Korean counterparts did back in the 80s/90s.

Oh, I love the 2 sides of HN...
Here everybody's ready to buy a BYD and even move to China, due to the sheer quality of the product (for the money) and the integrity of the people, totally forgetting about the 'social credit system' and the data that these cars might be sending or being exposed to having the car remotely disabled.
Not to mention the repairability...
Just a few days ago there was a popular post taking a modem out of the RAV4. Bet you can't do even that on a BYD without rendering the car non-functional.

> This prismatic cell is NOT a Blade, but it does share the same chemistry.

Kind of surprised that the part that is perhaps the most "BYD" of the entire car, isn't actually the same cell that the BYD Blade batteries use, which was what I was most excited about seeing :(

"You wouldn't CT scan a car!"

Actually, yes, we would: https://www.kmoser.com/ctscan/

> The last company to vertically integrate a car from raw material to finished product at this scale was Ford. Today BYD’s system runs all the way from the lithium mine to the port.

Both BYD and Tesla claim to produce around 75% of their components. Ford is at around 25%.

Tesla is indeed smaller in scale (cars/year):

  BYD 4.6M
  Ford 4.4M
  Tesla 1.6M

[dead]

AI slop

This was stated about the key: "Folded into the base is a mechanical backup key, a flat metal blade in a hinged housing."

I own a BYD: this is not true. The key is not hinged; rather, the entire mechanical key pulls out when a small clip is unlatched near the top of the assembly (you can see it in the CT). I assume the circular hinge-looking mechanism in the CT is just a by product of the plastic/metal weld process.

Nonetheless: very cool tech demo!

[dead]

[flagged]

[flagged]

[dead]

The repo is showing initial commit of the entire codebase "6 minutes ago", and this was posted an hour ago? Are we time travelling now?

Sounds interesting. Unfortunately not available in my country in the Android app store. I live in The Netherlands. If you're looking for feedback, you might want to double check this :)

There's no "some" would call it fraud, you cannot change the terms of a contract post signing like that.

[flagged]

Hi HN, Yao here. Most frameworks are built for one developer, one agent. The moment a team shares infrastructure, people end up duct-taping row-level access into the prompt and hoping the model doesn't argue past it. I got tired of that.

Cast is a harness for multi-user, multi-agent systems: one server, a handful of people with their own identities, a fleet of agents handling different things and talking to each other when they need to. Agents are skills and CLAUDE.md, not Python classes, so you can focus on launching quick and refining the agent based on real usage. MIT, self-hosted, runs on a Mac Mini.

Cast puts access control in the routing layer, not the prompt. Each agent runs in its own container with actual filesystem boundaries. Identity verified before the agent sees the conversation (Slack, telegram, etc). Credentials never mounted in.

Developer alpha. Looking for teams that have hit the multi-user Claude Code wall and want to try this out. github.com/yaodub/cast. MIT. BYO Claude key.

Supervised Full Self Driving is oxymoron like Dry water.

OT did GitHub change their default fonts? This MD file shows up "differently" than I am used to, today.

Cool — multi-user, multi-agent, virtual envs, single machine, is probably where most agentic DIY systems need to be going!

What about in call centre situations to monitor employees or customers’ emotional states, or fingerprinting customers?

Sounds interesting. App not available in my region (iOS, Germany).

this looks very cool, it’s genuinely hard to manage all my claudes sometimes and i’ve tried to build something like this as well, though with much less success

Is this fraud? Contract forgery?

I just gave my agents a keychain tool that expands prefixed environment variables automatically into their shell. Can work locally or against a cloud key vault. Done.

[flagged]

[dead]

https://apps.apple.com/us/app/lungy-breathing-exercises/id15...

[flagged]

That is not at all how contracts work!

Very interesting idea, I hope you can progress this into a well working, proven application.

I tried to do something very similar a year or 2 ago, more directed towards meditation. (Ie as a helper that uses breath to detect a wandering mind). A microphone in itself wasn't sufficient in my case, and detection was quite hard. I ended up using wired earbuds with microphones.

Nice focus as well, less scoring and more signal. All the best in your project!

Audio normalizing seems to be quite hard for this kind of use. I tried this 20 yrs ago with parts of a (mouse-)pointer device, a rigid nylon strap around the chest and 8 cm of flexible length in between. Mouse pointer wheel (one dimension only) was driven by change of length. For some hours of fiddling it was quite reliable.

can you please review login requirement?

So they “reinvented” HTTP cookies but with only advertisers?

> Technically, the way it works is that a script running on a site with ads asks the browser to record an ad impression. Then the browser keeps a record of ads seen from all the sites you visit. Later, when you buy something, the retail site can ask the browser to generate a “conversion report” that can be passed to a centralized aggregation service.

Following the overturning of Roe v Wade, it is clear that the US needs privacy enshrined in the Constitution. For example, it is absurd to imagine a state government trying to distinguish between an abortion and a miscarriage in order to potentially prosecute; this distinction is something that no one beyond the woman should have any right to know.

It's my view that the Founders did not think to directly mention privacy since they had no capacity to imagine technology as powerful as that which enables today's surveillance capitalists. But the sort of law that would establish a general right to privacy (or the kind of values that would lead us to establish one) would likely also hinder companies from aggregating user data for any purpose other than directly serving users. (And it would also hinder the government from surveilling its citizens.)

If such an amendment were considered, we'd all fast find that most techies aren't actually liberals. Oh wait, we saw that when they all turned to support Trump. Surprise, surprise.

I promise you that when consumer and enterprise funds dry up, every one of these AI companies will be placing ads and selling surveillance and drone tech to the government. Anthropic already dropped the part of its constitution that forbid collaboration of any kind with the military. The pressure to profitability is immense.

Today, purported morality is mostly (temporary) sophistry. Most folks will work for Zsuck or Palantir if the money is good enough.

Time to fire up the chaffing. Or the pitchforks and torches. Either one.

Advertising needs to be over now.

> This post is already getting too long, so I won’t cover all the extra problems besides the big two.

> There’s no estimate of the environmental impact of all the extra processing

The “environmental impact” of this data processing is one of the “big two” problems with the proposal? Maybe this was just a backup filler argument but it is such a silly point that it immediately makes me question the entire article. This is a massive tell that someone is arguing in bad faith.

"The average person in the USA has about $1200/year spent on advertising intended to reach them. Where do you want “your” $1200 spent?"

Interestingly $1,200 is roughly 3.5% of what the average American spends per year (roughly $78k), and $1200 is roughly 15% of the average American's discretionary spending. That doesn't seem too crazy to me as a cost for the main driver of the matching and branding system of the capitalist economy of the United States.

The next time anyone on HN says "GDPR should've been a setting in the browser", I'll just point them to this. This is what browser vendors are making as a default setting.

Coming? The advertising cartel has been coming for the web browser since Google bought DoubleClick in March 2008 and then released Chrome in September.

"Eternal September II" is when Chrome was first released to the public.

I've been wanting to build something like this for mobile advertising attribution. Mobile attribution is much worse since it by nature needs to on a device / fingerprinting level track across apps, and since there is not HTTP direct connection between the apps, the tracking is much more broad. Companies like AppsFlyer are in 20% of apps and track everything that happens in those apps.

I'd like to see AppsFlyer work on this as well. Moving mobile attribution to device based would be a huge privacy benefit. But it might be quite difficult for a company like AppsFlyer to do this, so it might need to end up being pushed by Apple and Google, but as both advertising companies, they might be even less incentivized for this kind of local tracking.

Meanwhile the most popular browser is by... google, the largest advertising corporation on Earth.

They've been there for a while now. Sadly.

> called Attribution Level 1, as a standard feature of web browsers

We need to eliminate private companies from our browsers in general. Many years ago they called it "acceptable ads".

You can tell who works in adtech

Closed immediately due to the invasive "using this site means you agree to our terms of service!!" Popup

> When Meta, Google and Apple [and Mozilla] agree on a “privacy” feature, watch out.

?

This feels like a good sign, to me. I get far more worried when I see the likes of Meta, Google, Spotify, Epic etc team up.

This seems like this is written by an advertiser who wants their profits, but pretending to care about privacy so they get users' support.

Here is a more honest summary:

"This proposal hurts us, small advertisement networks and professional marketers. Reject it, or we will ramp up the tracking to compensate for the lost opportunities!"

> Don’t look for a section on permissions or consent in that document, by the way. There isn’t one. And nothing about nerd lawyer stuff like “opt out of sale” or “objections to processing” in there, either. The Big Tech companies want a two-track system, where other companies’ ad features are required to do all the privacy regulation hassles, but the browser’s own built-in tracking feature is something that people have to find the right setting for and turn off.

This language to make consent popups sound good is suspicious. Not being interrupted while you're browsing is good. A browser setting that people can turn off once, for all participating websites, is good.

why is it called Janet? perhaps to prevent it to be identified with the acronym for Lots of Irritating Single Parenthesis?

I'm not sure what this blog is complaining about.

>Problem one: Over-rating search, social, and app store ads

Isn't this a problem with today's ad attribution system? The author doesn't try to argue how the new system makes it worse.

>Problem two: Incentives for extra tracking

Same as above. It sounds like he's against attribution in general, which is an okay position to have, but I'd rather he say this upfront and more directly rather than spending 1k+ words on what essentially can be boiled down to "I hate Attribution Level 1 because it's attribution, and attribution is bad in general", and implying the issues he has are issues with Attribution Level 1 specifically.

[flagged]

Pretty compelling, especially "Janet does not adhere to the ancient customs. CAR is called first. PROGN is called do. LAMBDA is fn, and SETQ is def." - a sign of good sense for sure!

How fast is it?

Also my main objection to Lisps is still the horrible bracket syntax. Yes it's unambiguous and easy to parse, but it's HORRIBLE to read and edit. I wish this project had been a success (or something similar to it): https://readable.sourceforge.io/

Also I don't think static typing is really optional for me at this point.

[dead]

if those are the reason why you love janet, then you will love tcl because you will be able to do all the same things without drowning in parenthesis and weird syntax.

> I never thought it could happen to me.

But I am truly biased. I have basically forgotten how to code everything else (besides APL family languages) in the past _checks notes_ 10 months since I started Janet. I even run a community [docs site](https://janetdocs.org/) and am writing [my own tutorial](https://janetdocs.org/tutorials/learn-to-program) (albeit slowly). I even use it in production for all new software (within 3 weeks of starting, I had rewritten all personal scripts etc.)

> Janet is simple

You can do literally everything with just hashmaps. The whole language is basically a hashmap, implementation wise. `(keys (curenv))` prints out all locally defined symbols. `(keys (getproto (curenv)))` prints the parent hashmap of the current environment i.e. all the core symbols. I don't, but you can basically do CLOS via hashmaps (and there is a [fuller implementation](https://git.sr.ht/~subsetpark/fugue) too.)

> Janet is distributable

I have like 20 websites and another dozen or so services running on Janet (with the [Joy webframework](https://github.com/joy-framework/joy) which I wrote a [tutorial](https://janetdocs.org/tutorials/Joy-Web-Framework) for), on a single free-tier VPS with 512mb of RAM.

> Janet has ... immutable collections

...not really. In reality, the whole standard library constantly returns mutable versions from everything. There's no reason to really try to be immutable at this point. Although there are cool [combinator libraries](https://git.sr.ht/~subsetpark/apcl-janet) and I've even made combinatorish versions of basic functions:

    (defn better-cond
      [& pairs]
      (fn :bc [& arg] # names for stack traces
        (label result
               (defn argy [f] (if (> (length arg) 0) (apply f arg) (f arg))) # naming is hard
               (each [pred body] (partition 2 pairs)
                 (when (argy pred)
                   (return result (if (function? body)
                                    (argy body) # calls body on args
                                    body)))))))

Combinatory inspired cond, which allows for pairs. The test does not need an argument and the body may be a simple value or a function:

    (map (better-cond
             string? "not a number"
             odd? "odd"
             even? "even") 
      [1 2 3 "cat"]) # the args!
    (map
        (better-cond
         1 (fn [arr] (array (min ;arr) (max ;arr)))) # (recombine array (unapply min) (unapply max)))
        (partition 2 (range 10))) # these are the args!
    ((better-cond
           "second is smaller")
         5 3) # these are the args passed into the func! I am excited!

> Janet lets you pass values from compile-time to run-time

That's what got me hooked, in a few ways. In Racket or Go, I had to do a lot of work to process data at compile time so the runtime could literally just be a lookup table. In Janet? That's the default behavior of any `def` outside of main. The following turns a .tsv of the bible into a hashmap in the binary, when compiling:

    (def verses  (reduce (fn [acc line]
                           (let [parts (string/split "\t" line)]
                             (if (= (length parts) 5)
                               (let [[_ abbrev ch vs text] parts]
                                 (put-in acc [abbrev ch vs] text))
                               acc)))
                         @{}
                         (string/split "\n" (slurp "kjv.tsv"))))
    
    (def abbrev-array (keys verses)) # also makes an array of the abbreviation column

So the rest of the program is literally just accessing the hashmap ([twice as fast](https://codeberg.org/veqq/verse-reader#performance) as the Golang version using `embed`):

    (defn main [_ & args]
      (if (or (empty? args) (= "-h" ;args) (= "help" ;args))
        (do (print "Usage: kjv  [chapter:verse]") (os/exit 1))) # show help
      (let
       [Capitalized (string (string/ascii-upper (string/slice (first args) 0 1)) (string/slice (first args) 1))
        book        (find |(string/has-prefix? $ Capitalized) abbrev-array)]
    
        (pp (match args
              [_ chap verse] (get-in verses [book chap verse])
              [_ unsure]     (match (string/split ":" unsure)
                               [chap verse] (get-in verses [book chap verse])
                               [chap]       (get-in verses [book chap]))
              [_]            (verses book)))))

The equivalent go program was 5x longer and required an extra program to convert data into a 40k line .go file with a giant literal hashmap, to be faster than the naive Janet.

...but actually Ian Henry means Janet e.g. keeps closures synced across images/sessions:

    (defn timer [t] 
      (var t t) # this is slightly annoying, must shadow as params are immutable
       [(fn [] (set t (+ t 1)))
       (fn [] (set t (+ t 2)))])
    
    (def tx (timer 0))
    # call like this:
    ((tx 0))
    ((tx 1))
    
    # make an image and save it to file
    (def my-module @{:public true})
    (spit "test.jimage" (make-image (curenv)))

Exit and start a new REPL session:

    (defn restore-image [image]
      (loop [[k v] :pairs image]
        (put (curenv) k v)))
    
    (restore-image (load-image (slurp "test.jimage")))

    ((tx 0))

It saved the closure and all relevant image in the `(curenv)` hashmap.

Condensed from my longer response: https://lobste.rs/s/y0euno/why_janet_2023#c_lspe6n

Maybe needs a (2023) in the title?

Damn it, Janet. No proper namespaces. Hard pass.

This post is refreshing - smells of the pre AI discussions on the internet. A new language, a new syntax, heavy debate with people who have spent years writing code. I think someone should start a community online where AI isnt allowed.

The embeddability sounds very appealing. Does anyone have experience with using this somewhere one might traditionally reach for Lua?

Luxferre.top has some Janet based softwrae.

[flagged]

[flagged]

(defn foo [first & rest] ...)

So basically Lisp 2.0.

Although, this here is a good idea:

"pass values from compile-time to run-time"

Would be nice if some kind of "scripting" language
be as fast as a compiled language, but without 
ruining the syntax. Just about 99% of the languages
that are shown, have a horrible syntax. Syntax is not
everything, but most language designers don't understand
that syntax also matters. So tons of horrible languages
emerge. Nobody will use those languages, so 99% of them
will die off quickly.

[dead]

Thought  this might be about JANET, the rationale for which I have never really understood. The wikipedia article on it is not very explanatory: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JANET

Janet is ALMOST an incredible tool...but what I want is a very clear bifurcation between the standard library's stateful mutating procedures, and stateless value-returning functions. I ran into that wall hard trying to make something non-trivial.

It also turns out that the mix is due to the standard library leaning on raw C loop iterations underneath whenever it can. Which is great! But it confuses the library's interface paradigms.

The shell DSL is what made me want to try Janet

janet has replaced sh, python, awk, etc. for me, for system scripts over a certain length! it has a very fast startup time (on my system, 1.4ms via hyperfine vs. 1ms for dash) for scripts (not compiled executables), and its sh-dsl module allows typing shell commands very elegantly, like ($ cmda w x | cmdb y z). the ability to load an image to debug is a big help, too. i've started using it very recently but it's probably one of my favorite languages now, and the only other lisp i've used is mit scheme for sicp.

Wow I never realized Janet was released more than 10 years after Clojure.

Clojure: 2007

Janet: 2019

I've been drawn into the Janet posts that surface every once in a while here on HN, but found the otherwise highly praised "Janet for Mortals", not being for mortals at all.

> Instead of regular expressions, Janet’s text wrangling is based around parsing expression grammars. Parsing expression grammars are simpler, more powerful, and more predictable than regular expressions.

I would dispute that this is the case. In PEGs, alternatives are not commutative, unlike in regular expressions. This can lead to quite frustrating debugging. While a valid choice, the advantage over REs is overstated.

The author does not mention that Janet comes with _built-in_ networking

Having tried many tiny interpreters over the years, that's relatively rare IME

This got me thinking of Hy. I wonder how syntactically close they are; there might be an exploitable Python -> Hy -> Janet path here.

[0] https://hylang.org/

Excellent. Although I suspect the author of the programming language invented this  Janet for all the perfect puns. Yes, Janet. No. Janet.

Previously (April 2023) | 140 comments: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35539255

> SETQ is def

At first I said "what" out loud, since SETQ doesn't create bindings, it only updates them then I read the doc (https://janet-lang.org/docs/bindings.html) and the author is indeed wrong ("bindings created with def are immutable"). He probably meant "SETQ is set".

I really want to like Janet, as it seems to be the sweet spot between Guile, Tcl and CL (minus the speed/maturity of SBCL) but I have a visceral reaction to square brackets (so vectors) being used in lambdas and control flow operators. Same as Clojure, I simply can't get over it. Maybe I will with enough effort?

Also, what's the current LSP/SLIME status? Really important these days.

DSLs.  Creating a language that only you know that will double the learning curve for the folks coming after you.  It's fine for personal projects, but almost always an anti-pattern.

I wish these posts had more code snippets and examples, seems like a cool language though!

First time I've seen 'wat' used as a noun, I like it.

(for those unfamiliar with the reference: https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/talks/wat)

Seems some of the listed advantages for Janet would also apply for tcl (small/simple, easy to learn, embeddable, usable as a shell, great for domain specific languages).  It would be interesting, to me at least, to see a fan of Janet compare the two.

> But by allowing you to unquote literal functions, Janet makes it possible to write macros that are completely referentially transparent.

These lisp guys really get excited over very abstract things. If you say this to an average person on the street they will probably try to run away.

Does embedding Janet still lean on global state?

This document was really helpful when I first met Janet:

https://janetdocs.org/tutorials

https://janet.guide/ (the author's one)

There is also fennel, earlier language originally by same developer, that is similar, but compiles to, and is fully implemented in, Lua. No standard library of its own so missing many nice things like the parser library from janet, but it is good for writing scripts for things that embed Lua.

https://fennel-lang.org/

The author made these using Janet (discussed on HN in the past):

https://bauble.studio

https://toodle.studio

Those two fascinating art tools got me very excited about Janet a while back.

Always nice to see janet getting some attention.

shout out to one modern feature: sandbox

"Disable feature sets to prevent the interpreter from using certain system resources. Once a feature is disabled, there is no way to re-enable it."

https://janet-lang.org/api/misc.html#sandbox

I have my qualms with Janet. Mostly, it's lack of package management versioning and lack of libraries in general (advanced HTTP routing, etc).

I do LOVE that Janet can create binaries with JPM, scripts, and is very portable. I once put the Janet programming language on the Playdate game console as POC.

I actually do enjoy writing Janet, but every time I do people think I created the language (I did not).

It’s just weird Deepseek released a model that was not compatible with any of the usual engines. Without derez’s new project just to support DSv4, how long until it’s actually viable in llama :(

I train on AMD MI250X and managed to get Gemma 4 31B to work - but it took a lot of work on the software side.

[flagged]

What if life was born under the surface?

We at doubleword are bullish for AMD for low-interactivity inference - it does just take a bigger lift on the software side...

I'm not going to track down the references to see if they did this, but surely protein mass spectrometry could show if they have enzymes that are still there.

Genesis 2:7 (NIV)

Then the Lord God formed a man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living being.

Nice work! Would DeepSeek V4 Pro on 8xMI300X work with these patches?

This is like saying "wood burns, even when the tree is dead" but much, much slower.

The disequilibrium (sugars and free O₂) were produced by living organisms, and this is just the gradual drift back to a lower energy state.  CO₂ is common in the universe, and not at all a sign of life.  O₂ and sugars are rare.

Also the vllm patch accompanying the blogpost:
https://github.com/doublewordai/vllm-amd-blog-doubleword

This is great, if you have significant amounts of free oxygen to work with, which early earth evidently did not. Would be interesting to see if anaerobic metabolism could also occur without cellular confinement.

[flagged]

So, The Economist's paywall is unbypassable?

As anyone working in a large corporation can immediately tell you, "dead but breathing" is much more common than one might guess.

It's been speculated for at least a decade now that geochemistry spawned biochemistry and life as we know it. This appears to be the latest instance of this pattern. One of the most notable examples is geothermal processes simply creating calm energy gradients that are stable for billions of years (e.g., underwater alkaline vents), which can then essentially "manufacture" organic compounds, which naturally assemble into more complex compounds like magnetic Lego blocks, which ...

I like to think of the Earth as a supercomputer running a vast self-interactive chemical computation of unfathomable scale for an unfathomably long amount of time. In this view, the Earth is roughly a ~10^38 ops/sec dissipative self-modifying search engine, of which life captures roughly ~10^35 ops/sec into metabolism, heredity, ecological competition, and evolutionary search. Once proper biological evolution kicked in, with some bumps along the road, it has had a general tendency to reallocate that immense compute capacity in a way that increases search adaptivity per joule by finding and stacking "search accelerators" (prebiotic geochemistry/biochemistry, replicators, cells, DNA/RNA/protein systems, mitochondria, sexual reproduction, multicellularity, nervous systems, intelligence / brains, language / culture, science / technology, ?).

soil is a biological construct and only occurs on Earth, the regolith on other planets will not support life without major amendments and modifications.
there are orders of magnitude more types of minerals on earth that found in any sample from an extra terestrial source, and while not proven conclusivly there is strong evidence that the bulk of earthly minerals, have biological origins in there creation.
what is not disputed is that the entire top 10km or so of our planet has biological components and biological modifications, 3 billion years will do.that to a world,
the point bieng, is that extraterestrial regolith would be the substance to use in substantiating the premise under consideration, but was not.

What a stupid proposition. The capitalisation has already flowed to theses companies through private means.

One other angle to think of is the midterm elections.

There will be chaos and potential stall for another 2 years following the elections and if the democrats win. There will be natural vested interest in showing economic decline or bad things to win next elections.

Both parties do it.

This is the best time to get to a safe place for all these companies.

[flagged]

Reminds me of the Gamma Forest at Brookhaven National Labs.  From 1961 thru 1978 they irradiated a section of the pine barrens forest with a cesium-137 source just to see what would happen.  It sterilized the soil and hardly anything grows there, almost 50 years later.

https://maps.app.goo.gl/pJYr6qiZnMdVwLJS6

https://www.atlasobscura.com/places/brookhaven-gamma-forest

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GsuiLxcDuHY&t=925s

Life uh, finds a way.

The climate change deniers are gonna love this. CO2 from soil.

[flagged]

Not directly related, but it made me think of the "A New Physics Theory of Life" article in the same magazine https://www.quantamagazine.org/a-new-thermodynamics-theory-o...

This is huge news if true for evaluating soil experiments on Mars. They could give false positives for life if they only look for metabolic products.

Checked out this company about a year ago and they only offered small models. Now I see they have GLM-fp8/Kimi and DeepSeek V4 Pro. Since workloads are predominantly cached input, I'm surprised to see no separate price for cached input vs uncached. 
I hope the prices will drop significantly; with these prices you'll end up with thousands in monthly costs quickly.
Hopefully more hardware companies will be on the market in the coming years. If the Chinese eventually start competing with the current memory makers, maybe that will help.

It feels next would be trying isolate the component that make CO2.
Try to use smaller sample. Put them under microscope, etc.

Obligatory Asimov: 'The most exciting phrase to hear in science, the one that heralds the most discoveries, is not "Eureka!" but 'That's funny...”'

Nice work and thanks for being a customer.

(CEO Hot Aisle)

[dead]

That is not dead which can eternal lie, 
And with strange aeons even death may die.

Funnily enough, the title made me think about the PhD of a friend, and it turns out it's actually his lab that is featured here, and his name is even mentioned. What a star!

> They’re finding that the chemistry of life is not exclusive to life, he added. “It’s the chemistry of geology.”

This has me excited for missions to Europa and Enceladus. Vast quantities of tidal energy flexing unseen ocean floors for millennia is bound to produce some interesting chemistry, if not life.

The actual publication is available here: https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/sciadv.adw9065

  The present study challenges the traditional view that the *respiration of 
  organic carbon to CO2* is an exclusively intracellular process, revealing that 
  *organic compound respiration can occur spontaneously in an extracellular 
  context in soils*.

On the surface, it looks like they rediscovered that oxidation of organic / carbonaceous compounds occurs at low temperatures independently of presence of living organisms. The real contribution of the paper would be in elucidation of the specific mechanisms of oxidation of these organic compounds (e.g. via abiotic catalysis).

Compare to this paper from 2003:

https://sci-hub.kvnp.top/10.1016/s0360-1285(03)00042-x

  Coal oxidation at low temperatures is the major heat source responsible for 
  the self-heating and spontaneous combustion of coal and is an important source 
  of greenhouse gas emissions. This review focuses on the chemical reactions 
  occurring during low-temperature oxidation of coal. Current understanding 
  indicates that this process involves consumption of O2, formation of solid 
  oxygenated complexes, thermal decomposition of solid oxygenated complexes and 
  generation of gaseous oxidation products. Parameters, such as mass change, 
  heat release, oxygen consumption, and formation of oxidation products in the 
  gas or solid phase, have been used to qualitatively and quantitatively 
  describe the oxidation process. Reaction mechanisms have been proposed to 
  explain the characteristics of consumption of O2, and formation of oxidation 
  products in the gas and solid phases. Various kinetic models have also been 
  developed to describe the rate of oxygen consumption and the rates of 
  formation of gaseous oxidation products in terms of the rate parameters of the 
  relevant reactions, oxidation time, temperature, and initial concentration of 
  oxygen in the oxidising medium.

AFIAK only Hydrofluorocarbons detection would be considered a unambiguous signal of life, and those require technology.
Life very much seems to be a natural process, largely un-distinguishable from other natural processes. Detection will come from Preponderance of evidence rather than a silver-bullet.

Soil's amazing. So is fungal diversity. Fungal insect interactions. Bryophytes. Slime molds. Ferns. If you have a lawn, do the world a favor and remove it. No need to mow and you'll be amazed at the world that emerges. Especially with a microscope.

Theory on the emergence of photosynthesis whereby chlorophyll-like structures first evolved from harvesting heat rather than light:
https://www.inaturalist.org/journal/mjpapay/45240-the-first-...

Reminds me of the abiogenic petroleum: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abiogenic_petroleum_origin

[flagged]

[dead]

[flagged]

[dead]

Why wouldn't it? There huge demand for these shares. It's not like $3+ trillion is dumped at once. It's a tiny percentage of it, and the high multiple does the rest of the work.

Do we prefer the market will spit or swallow in this case?

Of course the market can and this is a silly question. These issues are tiny amount of money for the global capital markets to swallow. Masa Son has endangered ostrich eggs for breakfast worth more  on the daily. I kid, but seriously this is a very small amount of money to the global markets. It is more of a worry on the psychology than the size.

Remember they arent selling the entire floats of these companies. I cant read the article because Im not willing to pay for the Economist, but 400-500b in equity issuance is not a big deal to the global financial markets even though it sounds big.

The index fund thing seems to me to be an overhyped nothingburger. The seasoning period would just delay the inevitable when a company is launching with a trillion dollar valuation.

The big story is that that is happening at all. It wasn’t that long ago when Facebook had to get special permission from the government to stay private until they got to $100 billion.

The issue here is that public investors are missing out on so much upside.

No problem, the money will rotate out of the mega corps that do almost nothing into the next generation that is in the process of changing the world!

pop the bubble already

I did have few days ago conversation with AI to research how the economical environment was just before Great Depression and this doesn't look good if true. Definitely feels like someone try to dump their bags to retails investors and main street.

- Trailing P/E: 1929 peak was 32.6 vs. 32.67 today.

- Shiller PE (CAPE): 1929 peak was ~30 vs. 42.66 today (2nd highest in history).

- Buffett Indicator: Market cap was 124% of GNP in 1929 vs. 259.6% of GDP today.

- Margin Debt to GDP: 3.0% in 1929 vs. 4.1% ($1.304T) today.

- Systemic Risk: 1929 margin debt was 10-12% of total market cap vs. 1-2% today. Modern leverage has structurally shifted from retail to sovereign debt and shadow banking.

According to SpaceX's own S100 filed to the SEC their future revenue is projected to be 93% AI and there's also where the overwhelming majority of the CAPEX will go.

What is the value proposition for Space-X?

As far as I can tell it is in machines they cannot make work, servicing markets that do not exist for a service that will not matter for 20-years.

That and a third rate AI company that no body wants, except to get rid of.

This will probably go swimmingly at the start -  but as time goes by and they raise more capital, Musk snorts more K and the glory fades, what then?

[flagged]

Mercedes would have a market cap of $2 trillion according to the ARR valuations. Instead, it has $150 billion revenue, $5 billion profit and a $50 billion market cap.

Like Mercedes, Anthropic is not a growth stock because it has already been foisted on everyone.

Everything will be fine. You may see a little bit of dump here and there, but it'll come back roaring.

There is a reason they IPO now I feel like. Markets at ATH, greed is bigger than fear. Now is the perfect time to IPO. Could very well be a bubble burst after that...

86 X

I don’t understand why there is so much pushback and skepticisim about SpaceX. They actually have a functioning product, a market where they sell the product and virtually no competition at their pricepoint.

I am actually curious in knowing an answer to this: Does anybody think this is a good thing? A benefit to the world?

Not if anyone is cheating or scheming or being a rules lawyer, but is it good?

That's how the new 1927  starts.

It will be in the history books.

There goes my 401k

Spacex is worth buying. The best chance to make a lot of money is buying stock before the economics make sense. By the time SpaceX looks like a good company on paper with strong profits… the price will be so high you have little chance of making anything significant. If it’s a long term hold, consider how far away retirement is for you. Also, moon bases are coming.

The AI companies IMO are fucked. In the next few years computer hardware should advance to the point that local LLMs are good enough for everyday workloads. Not everyone needs top of the line flagship models in a cloud to see productivity gains. Companies will actually save money just buying employees top of the line laptops for AI enabled work than blowing that same amount on tokens every month.

Is SpaceX going to eat Tesla? As in, are a bunch of Tesla investors going to be migrating across to SpaceX since that seems to be getting more of Elon's attention these days, especially with xAI barnacled onto the side of it?

The money to participate in the IPO has to come from somewhere...

Maybe we changed the rules so that our capital markets can protect our champions from large Chinese buy pressure at lower post-IPO valuations. Plus, these companies have probably had to demonstrate earnings stability (yes, unaudited) in order for the rules to be waived.

Is the text of the waiver and its reasoning anywhere? I guess I'll read tfa.

At realistic valuations? Sure. At the current overvaluations? Yes. Are these valuations sustainable? No.

Back in 2008, we'd perfected the art of combining high-grade and dogshit Mortgages into one Security which could be sold on to, of course, Pension Funds.

Took almost 20 years for someone to find a way to scale up the basic Scam Mechanics and try again.

If you like SpaceX's launch business (the Grade A mortgage that you personally hold and pay), know that you can't get it without xAI (The dogshit that's already delinquent)

How long have the SpaceX, OpenAI and Anthropic investors been waiting for an IPO (excluding tender offers)? 24 years, 10 years, and 5 years.

You really think they are going to hold off against selling for multi-millions for another year, especially SpaceX?

OpenAI (and especially) Anthropic are at risk from being undercut by the Chinese labs and their open-weight models and may cause their valuations to be questioned.

If that doesn't cause a correction, then SpaceX will do it for them. There is no lock up for the 5% of shares being available.

What a headline

They're doing an IPO now because the war in Europe with Ukraine is almost over it seems, and after that a big percentage of capital will relocate from the USA to Europe again. They are just cashing out right before the tide turns.

Feels more like: can the bond market handle any potential outflows as money is rotated into these IPOs?

Maybe I'm just old school but I prefer to buy the rocket business without a social network attached.

Is there an index fund that intentionally only focuses on actually profitable companies? It would actually be nice to hedge some funds into non speculative assets.

[flagged]

[flagged]

I don't think the market will swallow the stock offerings until we see early signs of GDP growth attributable to these entities. But until then, I think the cost is higher than the benefit, which "The dead economy theory" essay covered it well [0]

[0]: https://www.owenmcgrann.com/p/the-dead-economy-theory

Sure, if Elon gets to raid your retirement account it can.

You guys remember that bit in Project 2025 where the plan was to crash the economy and buy up everything cheaply?

Do we finally see the mechanism?

[flagged]

two thoughts, the top three s&P 500 etf's have $2.7t in aum (and there are a lot of other etfs, mutual funds, and direct indexers on top of that) - so the dollars don't seem to be the problem.

I think its a little insane to have the seasoning rule for an index be inside the lockup period

So what people seem to be unaware of or are purposely ignoring is that OpenAI and Anthropic have invested trillions in a rapdily depreciating asset. There was a HN post from a day or two ago where someone bought a V100 for 150 pounds and connected it to their computer. Well that was a $10k GPU in 2017. That's the fate of H100/B100 GPUs in 5-10 years (and I suspect closer to 5). What do you do if you've invested $1 trillion that will be worth $100 billion or less in 5 years? I think it'll be worse than that because modern hardware at that time will still probably be the same Wattage but have much higher performance so you'll be getting much higher performance-per-Watt and that's going to really matter.

The only company I'm confident will survive this hardware crunch and still be relatively successful in this space is Google.

OpenAI in particular is a bet that there will be an AI moat and that OpenAI will "win". I don't think there will be a moat and China is a big reason why (eg DeepSeek).

SpaceX is a little different. Yes, launching rockets is a business but it's not a trillion dollar business. 100 Falcon 9 launches doesn't even break $10 billion in revenue. Plus, Starship faces cost overruns, delays and significant headwinds.

But the real kicker is that SpaceX was used to bail out Elon from the Twitter purchase and the xAI investors from the first Twitter bailout. That's a problem because xAI is burning $1 billion a month in a company where that really matters and I don't think Grok will "win" here. Like, at all. SpaceX would be a significantly more attractive company without xAI.

The big potential growth area is Starlink. For that to justify this valuation I think you need handheld Starlink phones. That requires a lot of satellites at a relatively low orbit, which also means they have a relatively short life (because they burn up in the atmosphere). And for that Starship must succeed.

All the AI data center in space stuff is complete bullshit. It makes no sense. It'll never be viable. It's not going to happen.

EDIT: let me clarify because I was careless in my wording. So, Anthropic individually has not spent "trillions". That was more of a general statement on AI spending. Anthropic has raised ~$100B, the last round of which was $65B (at $965B post-money IIRC). This industry as a whole needs to recoup trillions.

Anthropic seems to be in a better position (as a business) than OpeNAI is but I do think the it's a race to cash out before depreciating assets, well, drepreciate and there's the real risk as compute becomes cheaper and the AI craze wears off, Claude just may not have the growth trajectory that is built into the price.

Index funds had a remarkable run. They avoided Goodhart's law for decades

No doubt these companies are woefully overvalued. But this won’t stop me from putting in orders for several thousand dollars of shares with at market open. There will undoubtedly be plenty of buyers and I expect them to gain rapid entry into the indexes which will unlock a flood of additional capital from 401ks and pensions

As a side note, has anyone else noticed that GitHub have leaked what looks like a sequential customer number on their Billing - Usage page?

Go here and you’ll be redirected with a query string including a customer parameter. That looks like trouble.

https://github.com/settings/billing/usage

Maybe to counter some of the apparently widely expected doom and gloom:

- bubbles are notoriously unpredictable and generally don't happen when they are loudly and widely proclaimed to happen any minute now.

- large scale infrastructure spending tends to be really good for economies. These three companies are creating lots of jobs that are mostly related to construction, energy infrastructure, hardware spending, etc. That's a lot of money flowing to suppliers and regions where that spending happens.

- While overly pessimistic sentiments about AI and space companies are widespread they aren't much more rational than the overly optimistic ones. The realist scenario could actually be that, AI and especially Agentic AI is already quite useful and the total addressable market for that is obviously larger than it is today. The question is how large. Likewise, dropping the cost of launching stuff into orbit by one or two orders of magnitude, should create a much larger market for launching stuff there. Including possibly some AI relevant compute.

The valuations of these companies are probably on the high side and I'd expect post IPO share values to drop quite a bit and would not personally consider buying anything until after that happens. But that won't necessarily trigger a stock market crisis or a collapse of these well financed companies. All the spending these companies are doing is very real and the profits of their suppliers are going to be equally real. So some of those share value losses might be offset by gains for other stocks and economic growth. The stock market and economy aren't zero sum games.

However, there are worrying macroeconomic trends happening at the same time (Iran conflict, Ukraine war) that are disrupting global markets already. But you could argue that dumping tens or hundreds of billions into e.g. energy infrastructure and data centers isn't the worst way to counter those for a country like the US. The big picture might actually be pretty positive. Especially if we can dodge global economic misery via a prolonged Gulf conflict that at this point seems to serve no point whatsoever for anyone except perhaps Israel.

Net buying of corporate equities by American households, trusts, funds and non-profits has averaged $660bn per year for the last few years [1]. $200bn is not fundamentally a stretch for the American equity markets, let alone capital markets more broadly.

[1] https://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/z1/20260319/html/f22... line 16, 2023 to 2025

So they're not just racing to gain dominance in AI, they're also racing to IPO before the music stops?

IPOing and getting a bunch of cash, even if your stock subsequently suffers in the crash, is a lot better than being unable to get that capital infusion before the house of cards collapses.

At least on SpaceX the float is really low. The Market only needs to "swallow" ~$100Bn in volume of shares (across the 3), which the NYSE does _daily_.

the really interesting thing will be how much will other stocks go down because the passive dollars are chasing the new shares and have to sell to rebalance?

That looks pretty close in shape to the early Ace project Maggie Appleton demonstrated last month.

Edit: This short talk – https://maggieappleton.com/zero-alignment

Here is the kind of crap they are building instead of focusing on stabilizing their core business features.

And after they will accuse the growth and all to be responsible for their stability issues...

Windows App, Copilot, GitHub Copilot…

I predict next “Windows Copilot App” (not to be confused with any of the others), Microsoft’s AI that controls your computer (like OpenAI Operator and Claude Computer)

How is this different than the separate Agents app shipping with VS Code?

Other than fewer features.

Can the stock market remain legitimate after such a brazen example of dumping? Regular everyday people can’t access private shares and participate in upside even if they want to. They don’t have the connections like VCs, and aren’t accredited investors. And companies ban secondary transactions, which should be forced by law to be always allowed.

And then after all that, the public have to deal with their index funds, ETFs, mutual funds, pensions, 401ks, etc buying up these overpriced stocks. You have a space company that also acquired a failing social media platform and failing AI company with little revenue justification for the valuation, and a lot of other obligations that make it financially a disaster (like payments owed for spectrum). And two frontier labs with no real moats, each looking for regulatory capture based on safety or ethics or whatever.

To the everyday person, the stock market after the fast listing rule, these three IPOs, and AI job loss, will feel no more legitimate than prediction markets or crypto.

From Matt Levine’s column today:

> The index demand is not 100% of the stock available in the IPO, or 110%, or even 50%. But it’s plausibly more than 25%. It’s not a short squeeze, but it’s a lot. Add a reported 30% allocation to retail, and arguably a majority of the IPO is being sold to price-insensitive investors. That is one way to get a high IPO price.

If I buy the SpaceX stock it's 100% certain to go down.
If I don't buy it it will rocket to the moon.

Is there some sort of way I can positively monetise this?

None of these companies have any MOAT.

LLMs are getting better at a rapid pace and in a year or two, Chinese LLMs should easily catch up with the best of the models. Models have kind of reached a saturation point and that’s why OpenAI and Anthropic are doing an IPO now. Because a year down the line when their lead diminishes even more, they would be worth lesser money.

SpaceX has clients to put payloads into space, but those clients have always looked for good low cost alternatives. It is going to have competition in the future and will lose customers.

Looks good, but after pricing change I have already used 26% this month with very light usage.

Last month I used Copilot heavily, much much more than I usually do, but did not manage to use more than 58%.

For SpaceX (and possible the others):

Yes it can, since they changed the rules to force over $30 trillion in passive 401k and retirement money to buy SpaceX at IPO valuations.

From https://x.com/Hedgeye/status/2060435253928604065:

"Rule changes for the SpaceX $SPCX IPO:

Index providers waived the profitability requirement and cut the seasoning window from 90 days to 5.

This forces over $30 trillion in passive 401k and retirement money to buy SpaceX at IPO valuations.

Bloomberg Intelligence estimates S&P 500 funds must absorb 19% of SpaceX's float within 6 months.

Russell 1000 and Nasdaq 100 funds will absorb 24%.

The rules built to protect passive investors:

1. S&P 500 has required 12 months of trading and 4 quarters of GAAP profitability since 2002. Both waived.

2. Nasdaq cut its inclusion window from 90 trading days to 15.

3. FTSE Russell cut its to 5.

All three benchmarks are now structured to buy SpaceX at IPO pricing."

More evidence that GitHub is chasing features over stability of their platform.

Blog post: https://github.blog/news-insights/product-news/github-copilo...

"This page is slowing down firefox"

[flagged]

It is nice.

But!

The reason these tools exist is not because of non-professional developers, but quite the opposite.

A lot more professionals are now working on more projects simultaneously- something that was not practical just a year ago.

Though, while this is nice, considering that all of the action is happening on the same device, I am worried this is going to increase supply chain risks. Before, a developer would work on clearly designated projects for practical reasons. Now, the same developer can work across many projects that are quite different - for example, the marketing site and the backend - and because of an obscure and unimportant component on the marketing site, there can be an impact on backend systems.

I wrote more about this here: https://chatbotkit.com/reflections/everyone-is-a-vip-now

Anthropic at $1t for an IPO vs Google at $23b in 2004 sounds insane but Google's revenue at the time was $2.7b while Anthropic's already at $47b, so a valuation at about 20x vs 10x revenue. Anthropic also has very high revenue growth (50x since 2024), it doesn't seems quite as insane as it could be.

It's kind of interesting that everyone is going for the desktop app format now.

These desktop agentic coding tools are a large UX step up from the CLIs, but I still think the future is going to be remote development as the coding agents start running for hours at a time. Building a desktop app seems short-sighted as it would just lock them out of the remote option completely.

Who would have thought that git worktree is the technology of the year 2026?

[dead]

copilot had such a lead when this  whole ai coding thing started. what happened?

Let me guess: some ElectronJS crap instead of a native UI?

It's weird. I still remember 2008, when GitHub's claim to fame was that it was "the easiest (and prettiest) way to participate in the collaborative development of software."

Now they want to end that collaboration, and turn it into automation. Many C-suite executives right now are smiling bigly. Meanwhile, we're leading the exodus. Turns out, we still want the easiest and prettiest way to participate in the collaborative development of software, and GitHub ain't it!

Oh nice! I guess they're back to features after finishing tackling their availability issues [1].

[1]: https://github.blog/news-insights/company-news/an-update-on-...

The way I've been thinking about it: there is too much money trying to pour into the market.  That's why valuations are so high.

Maybe getting more of these big private companies public will bring valuations down a bit.

(Just my impression.  No math or financial studies behind it :)

Unrelated to the feature itself, but remember a few months ago when someone posted Github's beta feature for stacked PRs, and a ton of people slammed them for releasing a seemingly vibe-coded site? To quote Mitchell Hashimoto, "One of the most requested GitHub features in years and the website looks like it was designed by someone 9 years into a 2 year community college program."[1]

When opening the posted link, my first thought was "imagine if the stacked PRs site had the same amount of effort put into it as the Github Copilot App site". They clearly have other preview features on this site already, so maybe I'm just confused on why stacked PRs got some b-grade announcement site. The obvious answer is "copilot", but I'm still curious.

[1] https://x.com/mitchellh/status/2043788123008868600

So, it's not open source?

I know it has the same functionality, but it also looks like the Codex app which looks like Cursor Agents! Are they sharing some VS Code primitive here?

All these things are apparently valued at trillions of dollars these days. Where's the trillions, or hundreds of billions worth in improved quality of life? What has gotten better other than the ability to produce more crap?

VSCode just released their Agents Mode, this is pretty much the same thing. Surprised they decided to do a split like this all of a sudden.

looks like google antigravity 2.0, a standalone app instead of a vscode plugin.

> Firms in the broad Russell 3000 share index have a total market value of $79trn

I sometimes try to get people to worry about the catastrophic state of American public finances by pointing out that the net national debt, including unfunded liabilities, is estimated to be $175T [0]. The government could appropriate all the equity from the top 3000 largest companies, and also the entire real estate market, and it still would not be able to pay its debt (RE market is $55T).

[0] https://balajis.com/p/americas-175-trillion-problem

they should have spent this engineering time on stability.

And you immediately lose the ability to do `crontab -l` on any server to know its scheduled tasks.

Now you get to look around the myriad of places where you can put systemd files, and figure out which ones are base services and which ones are custom, with no general convention to go about it. Nope.

[dead]

[flagged]

systemd is great all around. Don’t listen to the boomers complaining about it because their cheese was loved.

That would assume I like systemd in the first place.

> stdout and stderr output often ends up in a black hole

Ain't that the truth.  Literally every crontab I've written for the last 10 years has had this in it:

2>&1 | logger -t cron-WHATEVER

...and that does a pretty good job of capturing anything that the script emits and making it easy to grep for in syslog the following morning.

But I'm still amazed at how many crontabs I run across that don't capture any output at all.

I'm fully ready to drink the "just let systemd do all the things" kool-aid, but I would love to see some sort of introductory/tutorial info into some of the things it can do other than services - i.e. containers and timers. I know man pages exist, but it would be nice if there was more scannable intro out there.

Article author lost me when he demonstrated that two files are needed to schedule something.

That is silly.

I setup a few systemd timers last year and created https://systemd.guru to play with different options in OnCalendar expressions.

I like these systemd things but I always find it annoying how I have to create multiple separate files (like a file for the service and another for the timer, or similar if I need a socket file).  In theory this is more flexible but in practice it's vanishingly rare that I need the same service to be accessible to more than one timer.  It would be nice if there were some alternative compound format that could combine the timer and service into one.

It may be a disastrous comment to make but I think I like cron better! A tool designed for a particular job etc.... :/

There's another big feature: You're not relying on the time zone to which the server was set (like with cron) but can explicitly specify a time zone:

https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/syst...

Is there a way yet to force-trigger a timer? There wasn't the last time I used them, which I found to be super annoying for testing them.

> In 2026 there are more modern options available

More modern doesn't mean any better or more powerful.

I for one hate this need for going "more modern" without having clear and factual advantages.

>And yet. You probably shouldn't use literal cron (or its more modern cousins) for scheduled tasks! In 2026 there are more modern options available

What are people on non-systemd distros like Guix System, Void, PCLinuxOS, and so on using for this? Is there still something better to use than cron?

Admittedly I never learned cron, I use a lot of `sleep` and `countdown` for relative delays instead. Just earlier today I set up a 12h countdown followed by opening a URL with xdg-open since I expect a release around then and don't want to forget. I also threw in a little notify-send command in case my browser isn't visible, I should see that pop up. Considered using espeak, but don't wanna scare myself and/or ruin my watching experience if I'm watching a video at that time.

In decades of trying, I do not believe there was one time that I ever got a cron job to work properly in the first attempt.  Systemd timers are a godsend.

> humble systemd

I wonder what happened with the heading, it was okay before, and then was mutilated since.

Does systemd ship with something to upgrade your cron jobs for you?  That would be the friendly way.  Write your old school cron jobs, and then a script that converts them to do things the systemd way, documenting its steps, i.e. I created this file and this is why.  Friendly "I help you do things better" rather than standoffish "your way is obsolete, you need to do it our way".  Oh wait.  I get it.  LLM agents can do exactly that for you can't they.  Another way I'm behind the curve.

I have knocked together a systemd service or three based on google copypasta.  But generally, for cron jobs, why make it complicated?  One line in /etc/crontab and done.  I generally call an encapsulation script that sets the right environment variables, uses absolute paths, captures stdout/stderr if required and so on.  I just want the simplest possible way to launch that script on a schedule.

> Prime Time for a Timer Primer

It's pronounced, "primmer."

Even better is systemd socket activation.

You will love SystemD [0] timers until they fuck you over in an entirely inscrutable way and the SystemD maintainers don't care to either fix the problem or update the docs to warn of the shortcoming.

One of our customers called in with a production down incident caused by a full disk. We got a copy of the VM and took a look. Investigation revealed that / was full because /var/log was full and that our 'logrotate' timer unit that was scheduled to run once a day had run either exactly never or exactly once... I can't remember which. Further investigation revealed no difference in software load or configuration between this VM and a VM that had a functional logrotate timer unit. Exactly one VM out of hundreds of identical VMs at this site (and many multiples of that at other customer's sites) were affected by this. Advising the customer to clear out /var/log and reboot did not unstick 'logrotate', and none of the diagnostics or fixes we could find anywhere unstuck it. Once "systemd-crond" decided to never schedule this job ever again, it stuck to that decision.

After a lot of searching, we found an open bug report from a year or three prior where someone reported exactly the same symptoms and was scheduling a unit with pretty much the same set of unit configuration flags that we were using. The conversation from the core devs ran through the pattern that one gets used to seeing when one runs into SystemD bugs that are caused by extremely complex unanticipated interactions between parts of the project: "That's not a bug, only an idiot would want that to work.", "Oh, we don't document that that's not supposed to work?", "Wow, okay, yeah, I can see how that maybe should work. That it doesn't sure does seem weird.",  "Having said that, I don't know if it's supposed to work, or if it's unsupported. Someone should really either document that or fix it."... and then the behavior is neither fixed nor documented. [1] Absent any actual explanation for the failure, we ended up swizzling the options in our 'logrotate' unit and praying that satisfied whatever gremlin arose from the depths to trouble our customer.

SystemD contains an enormous -and ever-growing- amount of accidental complexity, and has a set of core maintainers who are generally disinterested in either documenting the places where one or more complex systems bind together to cause stop-the-world problems or fixing the systems involved so that they don't bind up. It's a fine project until it's very, very suddenly not, and then you're absolutely SOL. If you're lucky, you can shuffle around what you're doing [2] and hope that avoids the problem. [3]

[0] Some folks use the spelling "SystemD" to mock the project. I use the spelling "SystemD" to distinguish between "the entire systemd project" and systemd(1). I do this because some folks will make a claim like "systemd is very, very small and self-contained. I don't understand why anyone would say otherwise.", but what they are actually saying is that systemd(1) is a fairly small program that doesn't do all that much when run as PID 1. It sucks minor amounts of ass that the project and the program it runs as PID 1 share the same name, but what can you do?

[1] No, I don't have a link to the open bug report. This was more than a year ago, so the bug ID has been long forgotten.

[2] The term of art for this practice is "wave a dead chicken at it".

[3] Plus, like, even disregarding most of the rest of my report... how in the hell do you design a cron that knows a job is scheduled to be run periodically, can tell you how long it has been since it last ran, but never manages to run it? To me, that's unforgivable. It's a "You had one job!"-tier cockup.

This is actually something that I like in systemd.

I am dealing with mostly non systemd system: BSD, Alpine, termux
On BSD anacron works well, but I do not why I am always running into problems with the cronie anacron implementation. And it is very hard to debug.

I would really like a simple modern cron/anacron alternative.

Cronicle looked cool but it is node.js, a bit heavy and being replace now by their new product called xyOps anyway.

I command you to love systemd timers!

(Yeah, they're pretty useful, especially after you get an LLM to write all the boilerplate for you. The boilerplate was the main reason I preferred crontab before.)

systemd is complex on first view, but after using it you didn't want to use anything else. It's handy to manage everything using systemctl

I am not the greatest fan of most of systemd's features. I will always prefer it tho since I just view it as a "packaging format". The same way I view docker. It is just that it happens to be the format that a lot of software is using and I have almost no headache integrating services, timers, logging and such of software I install. Without systemd its a mighty pain. Everyone uses the same one thing and that makes me overlook any drawbacks of the model. Only if the entire system was set up by me and mostly ran my software and I was getting paid for it, I might not use systemd.

But one feature of systemd I will absolutely stand by is nspawn. It's just beautiful.

I've converted all my crons to systemd timers+services over the past year but cant help but think it's sort of.. less tangible than cron

Like imagine trying to explain systemd timers and services and unit files to a beginner.

This is a very good intro to systemd timers -- I think you convinced me to finally start using them. Love the "list-timers" thing as well. With cron, it never seemed easy to me to get a picture of all the cron jobs running on a box. I'd need to check crontab for all users, as well as /etc/cron.d/, as well as the daily/hourly/monthly directories.

And in fact I do have a use-case for needing to run something ~5 minutes after the system boots and then every ~12 hours onward from there. It's great that systemd timers has me covered!

I haven't always been the biggest fan of systemd in some regards, but I will say that I mostly agree with this sentiment. I've almost completely quit using cron, and now favor systemd timers for scheduled jobs - at the "system" level anyway. I might still embed Quartz for scheduling that's scoped to a particular application or something.

Why? It's one of those fuzzy and somewhat hard to explain things. The systemd approach just maps more cleanly to my mental model of "how things should work" I guess. And maybe some of it is that I did indeed experience plenty of " Ambiguous $PATH settings make cron script execution difficult to predict" in the past, although it's not just that.

I won't sit here and claim that systemd timers are necessarily better than cron in any universal / objective sense. But they've won me over, for what it's worth.

I've been using Linux for over 20 years, systemd for over 10.

Yet there's always something new to learn and actually consider as another useful tool.

We have used cron perfectly fine for decades and it served us well within its very clear limitations.

But now obviously we were so blind and wrong all this time and the only true solution is of course systemd.

I believe one of the major distro lines (redhat or debian, I forget which) uses systemd-cron, where cron is just a thin wrapper around systemd.  You get more power from writing the unit files directly, but if all you ever need is a simple cron job, you have the old interface still available.

Refreshing to see a positive opinion with regards to systemd. Incidentally, my favorite way to spawn jobs, is well, the job spawn command in nushell.

Timers can work with arbitrary units (not just a similarly-named service unit) so they can be surprisingly flexible. I have a timer on my servers that starts a  backup.target that fires off a full "restic backup","restic prune", "restic forget" backup cycle each morning with randomized start times and notifications. The actual restic-* units are Podman Quadlets so the whole setup runs agnosticaly of what's on the server, just as long as it has Podman and Systemd installed.

I will admit thought, timers are up there in terms of being the clunkiest systemd unit type to use on a regular basis. I get why they're split up into two files and require different start vs enable syntax's, but man sometimes I just want to create a file that runs a script and be done with it.

NixOS comes with systemd, so I've been using it as a first-class part of managing stuff. It's great, especially coming from macOS' launchd.

Which makes it nice to distribute a tool for NixOS so that it can lean into systemd instead of as some bolted-on afterthought.

Makes me wonder what you'd do if you were distributing a lifecycle-heavy tool for Linux users in general since systemd isn't ubiquitous.

I use a systemd timer to run a monthly scrub for my btrfs pool. Kinda cool how you can do increasingly useful things like skip the next scheduled event if the user initiates a scrub, do or don't accumulate tasks if you have a monthly task but the machine was offline for 6 months -- or fold them into a single task, etc.

Oh I love them quite a lot! I use them to run all of our backup jobs, easy to set up and have never had an issue.

Hey everyone, author here. I spotted the hn traffic a little late but I'm happy for any feedback or comments and will try and address the top-level comments as I can.

(Aside: I wrote this article early last month but it caught on only just recently. For better or worse, touching a third rail topic like systemd seems like a sure-fire way to elicit strong and numerous reactions both positive and negative.)

I will use what I am comfortable with and so should others.  CronD, SystemD, atD, multiple conditional checks in a shell script, whatever tickles your fancy.  There is no wrong answer, just document what you did and add a comment.  Comments are permitted in cron.  If someone keeps putting complex obfuscated time structures into cron make them decipher their incantation and keep nagging them until they keep it simple, comment their cron entries or until they and their manager resign.

For what it's worth there are usually web apps popping up that can decipher goofy cron time/date incantations. [1]  This one has a git repo in the top right, not my repo.  Maybe clone it just in case their site goes away some day.

[1] - https://crontab.cronhub.io/

After years of using orchestration tools like airflow and dagster so many lightbulbs have just lit up in my head.

I wish documentation for tools would explain their abstractions concepts in terms of its primitives.

Great post, thanks!

I've been almost convinced by systemd (and have switched to using it), but God the syntax of those service files is so ugly ...

I love systemd timers! I've slowly moved all of my ansible-deployed cron jobs to timers (now just an ansible copy!). The integration with journalctl, especially in a newer OS like Debian 13 where syslog is gone, is really nice. It's also really nice to be able to start the service manually for debug. Having a cron job that didn't work was an annoying exercise in copy/pasting or writing an extra shell script. Don't even get me started on the black hole of cron job stdout. I can monitor systemd services like I already do and get a notification on failure.

I've noticed more and more open source projects recommending timers as a deployment method and I think that's great!

I have a Canon printer, I actually can't trust that their print nozzle won't get jammed up after sitting idle for a while. So I had claude setup a systemd script to print a picture of my dog every week, I ensure it has enough CMYK spectrum to stress the printer. Its a nice surprise every monday as I sit on my desk to see a sudden picture pop up from the printer :)

Isn't this a bit of lame pr to share a very general blog post on hacker news? There are some rough milestone mentioned, what they plan to achieve in the future. But nothing about achieved metrics, track records, finished projects or even linka to this projects. This creates an impression of just greenwashing.

I haven't used systemd timers enough to disagree, but

> Ambiguous $PATH settings make cron script execution difficult to predict.

What makes you say that? You can set the PATH right in the crontab. Is that harder to "predict" than it being set in /etc/bashrc, ~/.bashrc, ~/.profile, ~/.bash_profile, /etc/systemd/…, or wherever else?

> You might feel cool knowing the scheduling grammar by heart

I've used Linux since 1994 and I don't know it by heart. But luckily it's pre-printed in the crontab as comments:

    # For more information see the manual pages of crontab(5) and cron(8)
    # 
    # m h  dom mon dow   command

You just put numbers aligned with the titles.

The rest of the complaints, sure. Next time I need a cronjob, I'll try it out.

Moved from cronie to systemd timers because they are resilient to system startup times. My backup strategy is to create a borg archive entry every day at a fixed time. With cronie the system needs to be running at the scheduled time, but systemd timer tolerates this and runs the service as soons as the system is available.

Btw this is my repo for the backup automation: https://github.com/gchamon/borg-automated-backups

[flagged]

[dead]

> Reduce risk of failure through artificial intelligence. CQL contains an embedded automated theorem prover that guarantees the correctness of CQL programs.

Man, it's a rough environment right now marketing-wise. I don't know if they're contractually obligated to say the funny magic words, but the term AI is nearly entirely meaningless at this point. Akin to saying "behold my mighty calculator app: it prevents divisions by zero through artificial intelligence!"

This is a cool idea—I know from snooping on sumbit scripts and node utilization on the HPC that I use at my institution that most submissions leave some compute on the table (and many of them are egregiously bad). I'd probably vote in favor of sending every submitted sbatch script through an LLM (at least for everyone else, I'd would prefer tuning my own usage myself :) ).

Presumably the underlying model here is also an LLM? To what degree is it "fine-tuned", or is it just given a set of tools to build a good picture of cluster usage?

[flagged]

After reading the article, I can conclude that Codex discovered nothing new.

This is already something that is known, and if you're able to be targeted by this (which is not the majority of users) configure your httpd differently.

This is really cool, and definitely needed.

Do you do any tracking of resource consumption over the runtime of a job? We have many jobs that use the requested memory only for a portion of the runtime, and are otherwise compute bound. It would be nice to be able to learn the profiles through time of jobs and layer them to get better resource utilization.

> Datacenters run at roughly 30% to 40% effective utilisation

I wonder what is stopping datacenters from passing this benefit to customers by launching better tuned plans. For example, t series EC2 instances on AWS.

There was a good blog post on how the category theoretic ideas behind this applies to data frames

What Category Theory Teaches Us About DataFrames 
https://mchav.github.io/what-category-theory-teaches-us-abou...

Discussed on HN at (67 comments)

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=47561426

If this sort of thing is interesting to you -- using type theory and category theory to add compositionality to programming and databases -- also check out CQL's cousin, the graph programming language Hydra: https://github.com/CategoricalData/hydra.

[flagged]

I have been working on open source traffic shaper for agents. I think it may help you better with prediction if requests don’t stampede you

https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rahmi-pruitt-a1bb4a127_agentn...

Thanks for the sharing. It looks interesting but I did not dive deep into it. Just wonder how is it different from SQL trigger which can also ensure integrities?

> CQL is not a database management system: it neither stores nor updates data.

The same could be said for SQL. How does CQL differ from SQL? If I squint my eyes just a tiny amount, these ideas become really difficult to separate. I was always under the impression that the relational model is based upon many concepts studied in category theory. To my mind, all of the following things are overlapping parts of the exact same monster:

  Set theory
  Category theory
  Graph theory
  Type theory
  Discrete mathematics 
  Relational algebra
  Relational calculus
  Relational modeling
  An actual sql schema

this is really neat. Was using or-tools to solve my friend's scheduling problems with coworkers.

[flagged]

From a security perspective this is a non-starter. If you leave your MongoDB instance open and I steal the telemetry you are collecting, I can reverse engineer the data into meaningful insights into cluster workloads. So all your potential national security customers or IP sensitive customers (finance, biotech, etc) are immediately out.

Any competent enterprise risk team is going to give a hard no to a SaaS application being in the critical path for on-prem business critical workloads. So there goes Fortune 100 too.

If you are successful and better schedule workloads you are just deferring upgrades and expansions. The customers Dell/HPE/etc. sales rep is going to freak out, some vice presidents are going to go golfing together, and all the remaining high value customers don't renew.

What you are really left with is the "small and medium business" clusters that are purpose specific. They are running 100% on a handful of tasks that can probably be hand tuned.

This sounds like really cool technology, I just don't see the business. Hopefully you'll consider open sourcing it soon.

I'm sure they will hold to these commitments with the same conviction they showed for "don't be evil" and their carbon-neutrality pledges.  See the strength of google's commitments and the value of their word:

- https://time.com/4060575/alphabet-google-dont-be-evil/

- https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2026/04/google-broke-its-promi...

- https://www.tomshardware.com/tech-industry/google-quietly-re...

Their new commitments are doubtless exactly as valued as their previous ones: not at all.

[dead]

Your "OS Wastage Scanner" is grammatically incorrect. It's "waste."

Do people solve business problems with OR-tools? I suppose yes, but what can you say about the real applications?

this is nice

can the browser connect to a server to offload heavier calculations?

Couldn’t simple fuzzing have found this?

I know very little about databases, but I work heavily with category theory, so fwiw: I think the main benefit is composition. The edge over SQL shows up when you combine schema mappings - a mapping is a functor, so when you migrate data along it the constraints come with it by construction, and you don't end up writing ETL and hoping integrity held.

As best as I can tell (but i really dont know much about databases) it's probably a narrow advantage - storage and everyday queries still go to Codd's model - but for stitching schemas together it seems like it could work.

I'm using similar math for automated formal verification, where this approach is what makes it tractable.

We have not yet converged on a best (or even adequate) way to present a structured mountain of information to AI, not already in its training corpus.

AI agents fielded by major AI players still fail at the basic task of providing immediate and correct support for use of the current versions of their products. If a programming language is too new to have adequate representation in the training corpus, there isn't an accepted standard way to provide a reference manual targeting AI agents. Even the best way to include documentation in a large project so new AI agents can take over is controversial. A pile  of linked markdown files really isn't an answer, less structured than a codebase itself, that AI is good at navigating.

Other HN posts have discussed using SQL as a backbone for the AI "mind mapping" support we need for AI more critically than for ourselves.

I was hoping that CQL could be an answer to this. Perhaps, but not its current primary goal.

[flagged]

One traditional enterprise goal of 40% utilization was to cover DR/failovers, so one region could take on 100% of traffic from another, with 20% headroom.

I'm curious about the granularity of contracts around granting/selling excess capacity. Are they short term? Can the owner evict those workloads (with a penalty)?

I'm writing book on perf optimization, love to ask you questions sometime. email me (in my bio here) if interested. thanks!

HPC student here, still learning. If I understood your problem statement, users of the cluster reserve resources far greater than what was needed for their computation. They fear that if the allocated resources are not enough, then their program will crash and lose partial results.

Can you give an example of typical execution on the cluster? Is it a problem of number of hours allocated or number of compute cores?

If I'm running a PDE simulation, and I allocate n machines I want to use all of them, so there is no risk of idle machines. It's not trivial to estimate a priori the amount of time required for my simulation to complete, so I overestimate. But when the simulation is complete (even before the deadline), the resources get freed and can be used right away for another job

Maybe the problem is when many users are greedy. Also MPI simulations are difficult (if not impossible, correct me) to change dynamically: when a simulation is started with that number of ranks, I can't add new ranks at will if the resources are available

Thank you for the patience for everyone that answers

Not to be confused with https://cql.hl7.org/ which is the CQL I know of.

Since Codd's paper showed that the relational model dominates other approaches (for data storage) I would expect a paper that shows categorical database are not affected by this and what benefit they have.

[flagged]

Not ideal.

This appears to be fixed as of April (at least for Apache). [0].

[0] - https://github.com/nginx/nginx/commit/365694160a85229a7cb006...

Foxglove | Multiple eng + GTM roles | Onsite (San Francisco) + Remote (Europe)| Full Time | https://www.foxglove.dev/careers

We build developer infrastructure for Physical AI. Robotics and embodied-AI teams run their data flywheel on us: visualization, multimodal logging (MCAP), search and curation, observability, eval, and fleet management. Stack is Rust on the backend and data side, TypeScript with WebGL and WASM for visualization, Python for ML and eval.

Series B, ~80 people, backed by Bessemer, founded by Cruise and Coinbase alumni. AV or robotics experience is a plus, not a requirement.

Open roles (Senior/Staff):

- ML Engineer

- Product Manager, Data + ML

- FDE, Europe

- Design Engineer

- Account Executive (Defense and Aerospace)

All roles and apply: https://www.foxglove.dev/careers

Questions: email in profile (mention HN)

> We disclosed to Apache on May 27, and Stefan Eissing fixed it on the same day by making cookie headers count against LimitRequestFields.

I was about to say, the bug here isn't in the protocol, it's that memory use isn't being counted & limited as it should... and, yeah.

I'm a bit surprised this happened to Apache, though. APR uses pool allocators. That should be easy enough to track and limit...

Location: Croatia, Dubrovnik / Europe
Remote: Yes, remote-first or fully remote only
Willing to relocate: No, remote preferred
Technologies: TypeScript, JavaScript, React, Next.js, Node.js, Express, PostgreSQL, Prisma, Supabase, MongoDB, REST APIs, Stripe, OAuth, JWT, Docker, Vercel, Jest, Vitest, Cypress, Tailwind CSS
Résumé/CV: https://personal-website-tau-sandy.vercel.app/Resume.pdf
Email: lazarbukejlovic@icloud.com

Full-Stack Engineer with 3+ years of experience building production-ready React/TypeScript systems for SaaS, fintech, AI workflow, and data-heavy products.

I’m strongest in frontend-focused full-stack work: polished React/Next.js product interfaces, dashboards, auth flows, protected routes, API integrations, database-backed features, Stripe billing, deployment, QA, and debugging the production issues behind the UI.

Recent projects include MindPad AI, Flowstate, AtlasBrief, GeoRisk, and EchoRoom. These are not basic portfolio clones — they include real auth, payments, persistence, AI-assisted workflows, dashboards, billing logic, team flows, and deployed production-style architecture.

I’m looking for remote Frontend Engineer, Full-Stack Engineer, React Engineer, or Software Engineer roles where I can own real product work end-to-end and contribute quickly.

micro1 | Software Developers | Remote / Global | Contract | $60–$110/hr

I’m sourcing candidates for a remote Software Developer role with micro1.

Relevant backgrounds: Python, Rust, Go, Java, Node.js, full-stack, Android, or iOS.

Details:
Remote / Global
Contract
$60–$110/hr
100 openings
1+ years hands-on dev experience
AI interview required

Apply:
https://jobs.micro1.ai/post/774871bf-951f-4f26-9fe8-42eabfce...

Disclosure: I’m sourcing for this role as a recruiter partner, so the link includes referral tracking.

ML6 | Machine Learning Engineer, Data Engineer | Python, TensorFlow, PyTorch, GCP, AWS, Azure | Full-time | Amsterdam, Berlin, Munich, Eindhoven, Ghent (EU) On-site/hybrid

We are a Machine Learning consulting company that builds end-to-end Machine Learning solutions. By applying the latest AI research, we keep our clients at the forefront of innovation.
If you are interested check out: https://www.ml6.eu/knowledge-hub/blog and https://www.ml6.eu/customers/cases

Work on innovative projects for the biggest clients across Europe such as Randstad, ASML, FUNKE, and many more! Whether it’s about leveraging LLMs to improve customer support, building data lakes on cloud platforms to improve storage or implementing models using sensor data for quality control. You can find it all at ML6.
You will mostly work with Python and a range of ML frameworks such as TensorFlow, PyTorch, or HuggingFace Transformers to solve hard Machine Learning tasks and help bring these application into production by building data pipelines and cloud infrastructure on all of the major cloud providers (GCP, AWS, Azure).

Open roles include:

• Senior/medior AI Engineer

• Senior AI Project Manager

• Chief Product Owner

and many more!

Apply now at the https://jobs.ml6.eu/

MONUMENTAL | https://www.monumental.co/ | Amsterdam, The Netherlands | Full Time | Onsite

We make robots that autonomously construct buildings, starting with bricklaying.

There's a lot of vapourware in robotics, but we're deploying robots across multiple concurrent sites today - and generating revenue. In the last couple of months, our robots have built affordable social housing, health care living units, canal walls in the historic city centre of Amsterdam, and a youth sports centre. Help us to build things that matter in the long run.

We're looking for experienced software engineers for many roles. You can help us solve problems like:

- Data sync and analytics queries across a fleet of robots (that can be offline for hours at a time)

- Modelling buildings in code and finding the right UI for operators to edit them

- Designing systems for robots to drive safely and fully autonomously around a building site

Check out the progress we've already made on Atrium, our operating system for robotics: https://www.monumental.co/atrium

We're rapidly scaling up operations and we need experienced engineers who can build the systems that manage all of that complexity. If you think that 'full-stack' could reasonably mean debugging firmware, mixing buckets of mortar _and_ writing React components, we are looking for you. Robotics experience not required!

https://www.monumental.co/jobs

Read about a week in the life of one of our engineers: https://buildmonumental.substack.com/p/can-robots-build-pret...

yeet | Chicago, IL / Remote | Full-Time
Building a dynamic runtime on top of the Linux BPF sub-system. Looking for extremely talented / passionate Rust developers / Backend Engineers with a deep interest in Linux internals, Distributed Systems, Dev Tools, Great Developer Experiences and Systems programming.

Experience working with distributed systems AND / OR writing highly-concurrent, performant multi-threaded Rust is a must.

Feel free to tell us all about your favorite GNU core utilities / Linux system calls / kernel sub-systems at: work [at] yeet.cx

You can visit us at https://yeet.cx/

Or try our interactive sandbox at https://yeet.cx/play

For more jobs check out https://yeet.cx/careers

Small prop-trading firm | Senior Software Engineer | Onsite | Paris, France | Full-time | Competitive comp

Hi HN, we're a small (currently 7 people) proprietary trading firm focused on prediction markets & sports. If you love great software, sports, maths and want lots of ownership - come join us! Ideally, you have experience in software engineering for quant finance, but this isn't a hard filter.

Apply by emailing draftpicks[at]kairos-research.ai with a quick line on why this interests you and a CV/Github.

[dead]

Hi friends, I run a small curated remote friendly job board at AI native companies. Please checkout: https://remotepilot.dev/

[dead]

[flagged]

Fullstory | REMOTE (US), Atlanta USA | https://www.fullstory.com/

Fullstory offers privacy-preserving session replay and analytics for websites and mobile apps. Our session replays are nothing short of magical, and the combination with our automatic analytics creates eye-opening insights.

---

Remote (US):

* Senior Manager, Security Engineering - $230~240k USD + up to 20% bonus - https://www.fullstory.com/careers/jobs/110896c1-25d8-4c96-82...

---

Atlanta, US (hybrid/semi-onsite, requiring 1 day per week in office):

* Senior Software Engineer, Web Capture - $145~170k USD + up to 10% bonus - JavaScript/TypeScript, React, Go (golang) - https://www.fullstory.com/careers/jobs/3b8d231f-ae95-4f95-84...

* Senior Data Engineer - $160~170k USD + up to 10% bonus - Go microservices, MCP server, dbt models - https://www.fullstory.com/careers/jobs/20dd3185-3313-4ac3-b1...

* Senior AI Automation Engineer, Finance - $135~145k USD + up to 10% bonus - https://www.fullstory.com/careers/jobs/4480a6d5-231e-420c-a6...

---

We have additional roles open in sales and consulting. See the full list at https://www.fullstory.com/careers?utm_source=092xpqyAkV

You can expect regular raises & bonuses, equity, and benefits including: health insurance, 401k matching (Vanguard), annual learning stipend, unlimited PTO, parental leave, and more. I take about 4-5 weeks vacation a year, in addition to ~3 weeks worth of company holidays (federal holidays + the week of Christmas to New Years.)

Additionally, you get a 5-week sabbatical after 5 years of employment - I took mine about a year ago, and it was fantastic.

To apply, please submit your info on the website, and our recruiting team will get in touch with you. If you have questions, feel free to reply here or contact me directly. (I'm an engineer on the iOS team, but I'll do my best to answer questions.)

[dead]

[dead]

[flagged]

YOGIS--pay attention:

1. https://mackley.co

2. parker@mackley.co

Namaste

[dead]

[dead]

Kepler | Full Stack Engineer | New York, NY | ONSITE | $230K-$260K + equity
We're building the trust layer for AI in high-stakes industries. https://kepler.ai

LLMs hallucinate, so they can't be the thing producing your numbers. In Kepler, the LLM orchestrates (decides what data to gather, what to compute, how to structure the output), but the model never touches the data itself. Every actual value flows through deterministic code pipelines with provenance metadata back to source. Verification loops cross-check outputs before users see them.

We started in finance because tolerance for wrong answers is zero. First product is a research platform for buy-side analysts: pull comparables, build models, research filings. Same architecture extends to chemicals, legal, healthcare. Models are commoditizing fast; the trust layer is what's missing.

If you want the deeper architecture writeup, Anthropic just published a case study on Kepler: https://claude.com/blog/how-kepler-built-verifiable-ai-for-f...

What you'd build:

- Source-explorer UI that traces any value back to its exact origin in the original document - Extraction pipeline for a data source we don't yet handle, with provenance and verification from day one - Agent orchestrator that handles partial failures so a bad extraction from one source doesn't block parallel work - Verification rules that cross-check values across multiple sources and surface conflicts with provenance on both sides

Stack: Rust backend (orchestration, extraction, computation), TypeScript/React frontend, PostgreSQL, AWS. Model-agnostic, currently Claude + GPT. We don't require Rust experience; we hire on fundamentals.

Looking for 5 years production experience, strong in TypeScript/React, comfortable in backend work. Bonus if you've built systems where correctness mattered (payments, data infra, healthcare, anything where a wrong output has consequences). Distributed systems basics: concurrency, fault tolerance, retries, idempotency.

Founding team is 40+ combined years at Palantir building Foundry's core systems (Ontology, Fusion, Workshop, FoundryML). CEO scaled a data company to $15M ARR, sold it, then ran Business Engineering at Citadel. Backed by founders of OpenAI, Meta AI Research, MotherDuck, dbt Labs.

In-office NYC.

Apply: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/kepler-ai/52624a4e-33e3-4f16-8028-0..., or email me: eddie.hammond@kepler.ai

nelalsal

Shepherd (Series B) | ONSITE | San Francisco, CA

At Shepherd, we're pursuing the most ambitious technical vision in commercial insurance: fully autonomous underwriting. Shepherd is an AI-native commercial insurance platform transforming how high-hazard industries get covered.

The infrastructure behind the AI boom (data centers, semiconductor fabs, renewable energy assets) has to be built and insured, but traditional carriers weren't built for this speed. We built Shepherd to solve that.

We just recently announced our $42M Series B! That brings our total funding to over $60M — led by Intact Private Capital, the investment arm of one of the largest insurers in the world. Intact is not only our lead investor but also a carrier partner, a testament to the confidence the incumbent industry has in what we're building.

Hear from our CEO here: https://www.shepherdinsurance.com/blog/behind-our-42m-series...

Hear from our CTO here: https://www.shepherdinsurance.com/blog/the-road-to-autonomou...

This year, we’re growing our engineering team from 25 to 40. We’re looking for product-minded engineers to join us as we continue to scale! We’re looking for someone who thrives on ownership, drives results, and cares deeply about both technical excellence and customer impact.

We’re hiring various mid-level, senior-level and staff-level engineers. See some of our openings below:

* Full Stack - Job Posting: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/shepherd/c4081c3d-a79b-4ac9-aa19-78...

* Backend - Job Posting: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/shepherd/395f4b75-cf05-4581-8408-8f...

* Founding Machine Learning Engineer - Job Posting: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/shepherd/797316b4-bdcc-4c0c-8bc2-46...

* Applied AI Engineer - Job Posting: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/shepherd/26959124-aab2-446e-aa4d-72...

Our stack includes: Typescript, React, Next.js, GraphQL w/ Apollo, Node.js, Postgres & Redis

Apply here: https://shepherdinsurance.com/careers
* In the form, be sure to mention that you heard about this opportunity via Hacker News.

If you want to read more about our team and culture, check out our blog: https://shepherdinsurance.com/blog

** Come join us for a fireside chat on Wednesday, June 10th, 5:30pm: Building Great Software in the AI-Native Era. Register here: https://luma.com/o80kw45j

Stpkr Technologies | Noida, India (Delhi NCR) | ONSITE | Multiple roles

Stpkr Technologies is hiring for the following roles to build the next generation of wearable devices.

We are currently looking for the following 4 roles but we are also open to interviewing any candidates who feel like they will do their best work here - even if your skillset/experience doesn't fit the current defined roles. Our current team doesn't fit the conventional mold, and we don't expect our future hires will either. If you don't fit the advertised roles, just send us a mail per the same process with whatever job title would fit you the best.

Work is in person near Noida Sector 18, walking distance from Sector 18 Metro Station. We prefer in office work, but we are super flexible overall, it will be hands down one of the best work environments you can get. Pay is competitive, and there are opportunities to earn meaningful equity down the line. We prefer current and recent undergraduates for our roles. If you are still in college we welcome you to apply nonetheless provided you can work as an intern for us in person. Super-flexible overall and all of our current team started out as interns.

Hiring across OS, full-stack, and hardware. AI policy across all roles: you should be able to do the work without AI, and much faster with it.

Android Systems Engineer (AOSP/BSP) - Everything at the OS layer. You've rooted phones, flashed custom ROMs, broken and fixed Linux for fun. Comfortable in C/C++. GitHub with kernel-adjacent or LineageOS-type projects a plus. Stack: Android, Linux, C, C++, Java. _Filter: send us something you built where you had to fight the OS or hardware.

Full-Stack Engineer (Apps + Backend + ML) - Everything at the platform layer. Generalist who ships end-to-end. Skill check: can build a crude-but-working facial recognition system (camera → model → DB → backend). (using existing facial recog models) Bonus for weird/constrained hardware work or running ML on edge devices. Stack: Android, Java, Python, TypeScript. _Filter: send the most useful thing you've built and used (no CRUD slop). Even better if you still use it for yourself.

Hardware Engineer - Bring-up/Debug/Integration - Take EVT/DVT boards and make them work. Comfortable with J-Link and IDE debugging, reading schematics and reference designs. KiCad/Altium/EasyEDA hobby work would make you ideal. PetaLinux experience or hunger to learn it. ECE undergrad fine. _Filter: photo of a board you designed or debugged, plus what went wrong.

Hardware Engineer - Power/RF/Wireless - Make the power and RF paths behave on EVT/DVT boards. Hands-on with schematic capture, layout, soldering, scope/logic analyzer. Given two unknowns, you pick one and start measuring. _Filter: sensor fusion work, how noise behaves across protocols, and SPI debug chops.

Founder's Office - Work closely with the founder and the rest of the team to manage the day to day and long term affairs of the company, the Man Friday of the company. Must have a decent degree of technical knowledge (we are a tech company after all) and be efficient at administrative tasks as well as management. Speed and learning ability are prized here, there will not always be a clear path to the work you have to do here, so you will have to figure some of it out on your own.

To apply, contact arnav@stpkr.in with the subject line "HN - Human" and a brief intro for further communication. Attach any documents you deem useful there. Please include the role you are applying for at the top of the email if it is one of the above mentioned, otherwise whatever role fits you best. Shortlisting will be online, interviews will be in person. We are hiring quickly, expect to hear back from us within 2-3 days of applying. If you don't, assume you will not. Thanks for your time!

[flagged]

Aloe | Multiple Engineering & Research roles | ONSITE Vancouver, BC, Canada | Full-time

Aloe is the epistemic intelligence lab building AI we can trust with humanity's most important applications. We work on research and products that bring introspection to AI and critical thinking to machines. Our Agent Models are designed for decision-making in the real world – AI that understands what it does and doesn't know, reasons about its limitations, and directs its own learning to self-improve.

Please read the job description and include in your outreach why you fit not just the role but also our culture. We strive to be Level 5 humans, co-creating a deliberately developmental atmosphere.

https://aloe.inc/careers

The future we’re building for:

- Commoditize access to expertise, capability, and AI’s economic promise for both businesses and end-users

- Make new discoveries, products, and experiences possible at speeds unbound from human performance

- Defend against negligent or malicious use of AI with internal governance and risk evaluation at the foundation

- Invert the extraction economy with AI that respects human cognition instead of exploiting it

[dead]

[flagged]

[dead]

Mitte (mitte.ai) | Berlin | ONSITE, REMOTE | Full-Time

Mitte is an AI creative suite — the agentic OS for creative teams.

Engineering (Berlin, on-site):

  - Senior Full-Stack Engineer (Go, React): https://mitte.ai/careers/role/GZHn1_O6
  - Senior Frontend Engineer (React, TS, Redux): https://mitte.ai/careers/role/5qi8KR4D
  - Senior Backend Engineer (Elixir, Go): https://mitte.ai/careers/role/oaFnPm0A
  - Founding Engineer (Go, React): https://mitte.ai/careers/role/7VTbvOae

Growth & People:

  - AI Educator (Remote): https://mitte.ai/careers/role/ZxfzRYO0
  - Founder's Associate: https://mitte.ai/careers/role/0dSWgqG1

Apply at: https://mitte.ai/careers

Thank you.

[flagged]

[flagged]

[dead]

MixRank (YC S11) | Software Engineers | 100% Remote (Global) | Full-Time

MixRank processes petabytes of data every month through web crawling. Hundreds of customers use our data products, including Google, Amazon, Facebook, Intel, and Adobe, across industries such as finance, recruiting, sales, marketing, and security. We’re a fully remote company with a global footprint across 20+ countries. We’re growing, profitable, employee-owned, and have no dependence on outside funding. Applicants from all geographies and backgrounds are welcome.

We’re looking for passionate individuals for whom programming is not just a job, but something they genuinely love to do. We’re obsessed with computers, programming, big data, databases, compilers, hardware, math, data science, and the internet. Does this sound like you? Please apply to join our team.

Our codebase is friendly to new contributors. You’ll have a fully functional development environment within hours through full automation and will be pushing commits on your first day. Deployments to production happen multiple times per day and finish in under two minutes.Effectively all of our codebase is written in Python, Rust, SQL, JavaScript/TypeScript, and Nix. The core technologies you’ll need familiarity with to be productive are Python, PostgreSQL, Linux, and Git.

We operate at a larger scale than typical startups. We run two datacenters with high-performance servers we’ve built ourselves, capable of handling the volumes of data we process. We’ve implemented our own distributed file system, perform full-scale web crawls, and download and run static analysis on the entire universe of published Android APKs and iOS IPAs.

Unlike a typical startup where you might spend half your time in meetings and the other half fixing Jira tickets, at MixRank you’ll challenge yourself with difficult technical problems that help you grow as an individual. We’re continuously hiring for the positions below; these aren’t singular roles that close once filled. Our philosophy is that the candidate is more important than the position. For each new member of the team, we design a custom role and responsibilities around their interests.

Other companies may create a long list of specific requirements with the expectation that you’ll exactly replace someone on the team or fit a role defined by committee. MixRank is more pragmatic: we first get excited about bringing a unique individual onto the team, then figure out the best way to support their specific talents.

Junior Software Engineer - Remote (Global), Full-Time

We’re looking for remote junior engineers with 0–3 years of professional software experience and 5+ years of curiosity exploring computers, programming, and technical hobby projects.

This is an open-ended entry role with mentorship and diverse opportunities to work across all areas of our product: databases, distributed systems, infrastructure and tooling, data analysis, machine learning, frontend/backend web development, APIs, data mining, data modeling, and more.

To stand out, please highlight what makes you unique: passion for computing, curiosity and side projects, work ethic, niche research, or anything else that shows how you think and build.

Ideally, you’ve already graduated. But if you still have one or more years left of school, please feel free to apply anyway. If you’re the right fit for the team, we’ll figure out a way to accommodate your schedule.

Apply here:
https://www.ycombinator.com/companies/mixrank/jobs/Fnwsojk-j

Software Engineer - Remote (Global), Full-Time

We’re hiring generalist software engineers to work on web applications, data mining, machine learning/data science, data transformation/ETL, data modeling, database scaling, infrastructure, DevOps, and more. We’ll tailor the role to the subset of areas that best match your interests.

Beneficial experience includes PostgreSQL, Python, Rust, Linux, TypeScript, Nix, frontend/backend web development, and data mining.

Apply here:
https://www.ycombinator.com/companies/mixrank/jobs/RXQspen-s

I’m Kiran, Chief of Staff at MixRank, a fully remote data startup building go-to-market intelligence. We’re US-incorporated but hire globally, and we’re bringing on new teammates to join a fast-moving team with real ownership and impact.

DuckDuckGo | Multiple Roles | Remote | Full-time | $178,500 - $243,800 USD + equity

We are looking for candidates that are excited to join us on a mission to raise the standard of trust online. All of our roles are fully-remote, except where specific locations are noted.

Most of the software engineering positions have been repeating here for years because we've been continually hiring for them, scaling our whole team to now over 300 people—many of those hires have come through Hacker News. We've been improving our hiring process over time, and we know some good candidates may have fallen through the cracks. Some people who tried in the past have had success going through it again, and we still pay for hiring projects.

Senior Web Security Engineer, Browser Platform = $178,500 USD + equity 
https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/duck-duck-go/a447e823-fd8f-438f-909...

Senior Backend Engineer - $178,500 USD + equity 
https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/duck-duck-go/53022b02-da3d-4fda-827...

Senior Software Engineer - Windows Desktop App - $178,500 USD + equity 
https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/duck-duck-go/47e569c6-f995-4955-a89...

Senior Data Scientist - $178,500 USD + equity
https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/duck-duck-go/a447e823-fd8f-438f-909...

Director, Data Science - $243,800 USD + equity
https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/duck-duck-go/0269aeaa-8d8f-4c8d-b78...

Director, User Insights - $243,800 USD + equity
https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/duck-duck-go/4c21670f-9057-42a5-a88...

Director, Business Development (Remote within USA) - $243,800 USD + equity
https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/duck-duck-go/30f53ccd-9714-4bee-9d5...

and MORE: https://duckduckgo.com/careers

Strobe Power | Founding Engineer | ONSITE (Brooklyn or SF) | https://strobepower.com

AI data centers are creating a massive new wave of electricity demand, and the grid is already stretched. Strobe is building an autonomous power company to help meet that demand: software that turns buildings, batteries, EVs, and generators into a distributed power plant that can buy, sell, and dispatch electricity in real time.

We’re a 6-person, well-funded team backed by top investors. This is early, high-ownership, and very real-world: the software you build will control physical assets and move money in energy markets. We are the only company actively trading distributed power in New York - the space is entirely new and unlocked by recent FERC regulation.

I’m looking for a staff engineer to own the data integrations and cloud infrastructure that make the whole system work. That means connecting to utilities, grid operators, OEM hardware, weather providers, and our optimization engine — then making sure it all runs reliably when market events are happening and dollars are on the line.

You’d work on things like:

* Wholesale market integrations with NYISO, CAISO, ERCOT: pricing, capacity markets, dispatch signals
* OEM hardware integrations for monitoring, control, and telemetry
* Utility data pipelines, including Green Button Connect / ESPI, interval usage, billing, and meter data from utilities like ConEd, PG&E, and SCE
* Weather forecast pipelines feeding our scheduling engine
* Event-driven AWS infrastructure using Lambda, API Gateway, AppSync/GraphQL, EventBridge, IoT Core, Timestream, Amplify, and CloudWatch
* Terraform IaC, observability, alerting, and the reliability work needed when downtime has real financial consequences

Good fit if you have deep AWS experience, have used Terraform seriously in production, and write a lot of Python. Energy experience is a plus, but not required. Experience with utilities, government APIs, OEMs, hardware, telemetry, or other “real world is messy” systems is very relevant.

Stack: Python, TypeScript, Rust, Terraform, AWS, GraphQL/AppSync, MQTT, Grafana. We use an AI-agent-optimized monorepo and are investing heavily in agent-enabled engineering efficiency.

Small team, no layers, high trust.

Apply: keeley@strobepower.com or https://strobepower.com/careers. Please mention Hacker News.

At Tether (https://tether.io/) we're hiring!
We envision a world where technology enables financial freedom, educational empowerment, energy sustainability, and data sovereignty.

All of our roles are fully remote, worldwide. Apply now:

- Mobile Developer (React Native): https://careers.tether.io/o/react-native-developer-wallet-te...

- AI Inference Engineer QVAC: https://careers.tether.io/o/ai-inference-engineer-qvac-100-r...

- Backend Developer (P2P): https://careers.tether.io/o/senior-backend-developer-nodejs-...

- Technical Project Manager (Wallets): https://careers.tether.io/o/technical-project-manager-tether...

- Technical Product Manager (QVAC/ AI): https://careers.tether.io/o/technical-product-manager-qvac-1...

- Technical Product Manager (Wallets): https://careers.tether.io/o/senior-technical-product-manager...

- Senior QA Engineer: https://careers.tether.io/o/senior-qa-engineer-100-remote-wo...

- Senior Software Architect (Blockchain): https://careers.tether.io/o/senior-software-architect-100-re...

- AI Research Engineer (Model Compression & Quantization): https://careers.tether.io/o/ai-research-engineer-model-compr...

- AI Research Engineer (Kernel & Inference Optimization): https://careers.tether.io/o/ai-research-engineer-kernel-infe...

- AI Research Engineer (Multi-Modal & Vision): https://careers.tether.io/o/ai-research-engineer-multi-modal...

- AI Research Engineer (Multi-Modal Reinforcement Learning): https://careers.tether.io/o/ai-research-engineer-multi-modal...

- AI Research Engineer (Agentic Post-training): https://careers.tether.io/o/ai-research-engineer-agentic-pos...

Fusionbox | Python + TypeScript Engineers | United States | Full-time | REMOTE (US-only)

We're a software engineering consultancy that builds enterprise software the right way. We negotiate the right to open source all our client code, maintain a handful of popular libraries, and our engineers contribute to Django core. We sponsor PyCon, DjangoCon, and Django Girls because we're invested in the ecosystem we build on.

We're looking for software engineers who value software design, system architecture, and collaboration. You should be strong in most of these areas: web application security, relational database design (PostgreSQL query plans, indexes, and constraints, not whatever the ORM emits), Django internals, React, and distributed systems. What you'll actually work on: complex state machines for financial workflows, multi-tenant architectures with row-level security, custom database functions when the ORM isn't enough, and React frontends that handle real-time data without being a mess of useEffect race conditions.

A note on how we work: we think deeply about the systems we build, and we believe understanding comes from doing the work yourself, not from handing it to a model. If you ship code you don't understand, we're genuinely not a fit, and that's fine. If that paragraph made you nod, we want to hear from you.

We're a small team where you'll own features end-to-end (database design to React components) and have opportunities to shape technical decisions. You'll work with a team that practices empathy and values work-life balance. If you've ever wished your job involved more elegant state machines and fewer marketing landing pages, let's talk: info@fusionbox.com.

myDataValue | Founding ML/Data Engineer | REMOTE (UK only, + London WeWork a few days/month) | Full-time | £70k–£100k + up to 1% equity

We're an AI agent that automates pricing and promotions for short-term rental operators on Booking.com and Airbnb. Bootstrapped to real revenue, recently funded, small team.

Pitch: we sit on Booking.com private API data, Airbnb channel data, and scraped competitive pricing across thousands of properties.

Our agent is rules-based where it should be data-driven. You'd be the founding ML/data hire fixing exactly that.

You're a fit if you:

* Ship clean production Python in a Django codebase, not just notebooks

* Think in experiments and know correlation from causation (time series a plus)

* Use frontier AI coding tools/agents to ship fast

* Have startup experience and thrive in ambiguity

Stack: Python, pandas, scikit-learn, PostgreSQL, ClickHouse, Django, time series, causal inference, AI agents.

Email me at martin@mydatavalue.com.

Kinelo | kinelo.com | San Francisco | Onsite (with a bit of flexibility)

Kinelo solves "context myopia": autonomous and semi-autonomous AI agents don't know what they don't know, so they can't search or find the background information required to accomplish tasks accurately and effectively. The result looks like slop but it's not due to model performance, more due to workflow integration. From there, we're rapidly moving into organizing humans together with autonomous "AI coworkers" into workflows that span both. Our goal is to change how organizations are run and structured.

We're hiring for two roles right now:

- Product Engineer / Senior Software Engineer (https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/kinelo/jobs/4205846009) -- do you have the software engineering wisdom not yet encoded in an LLM? and do you have product sense and the willingness and desire to think several steps ahead in the market?

- Founding GTM Lead (https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/kinelo/jobs/4215784009) -- there's no playbook for go-to-market in the category we're creating + the landscape is changing daily. Come architect a strategy and then move mountains to execute on it and help us grow insanely fast.

Competitive salary, meaningful (~first batch of hires) equity, founder previously exited to Apple, strong fundraising history (~$10m).

Please email us at jobs@kinelo.com.

If you want to stand out:
- For the product engineer role, tell us how you think the job of a software engineer is changing.
- For the GTM role, tell us about a time you got massive results with limited resources, all through your ingenuity, creativity, and hard work.

*Scribd | Lead Product Manager, AI Developer Platform | US, Canada | REMOTE*

Scribd, Inc. is on a mission to advance human understanding. Our four products — Scribd®, Slideshare®, Everand™, and Fable — help billions of people across the globe move beyond access and into insight, application, and expertise. We're a YC '06 company — one of the oldest still around — running one of the largest Ruby on Rails sites, serving 200M+ unique visitors a month with 2M+ paying subscribers.

I'm hiring a PM to own our *AI Developer Platform* — the internal product 200+ engineers build on every day. The platform spans the full agentic stack: the tools in each engineer's hands (Claude Code), a plugin marketplace and a library of skills that extend them, an internal app platform and agent runtime that teams build on, and the evals, canonical context, and conventions that make agents reliable across a polyglot codebase (Ruby, Go, TypeScript, Python; AWS/Databricks). You'll own the product strategy for developer experience and how we measure it, partnering directly with the Developer Platform and Data Platform engineering teams who build the underlying capabilities.

We're looking for a highly technical PM — quite possibly a former engineer — who is genuinely passionate about how developer platforms are evolving in the age of AI. You've shipped real products with modern agentic primitives (agents, evals, tool use, MCP, plugins/skills), and you can hold your own with engineers in technical discussions. This is the first PM seat at Scribd pointed inward, in a brand-new domain with no playbook to inherit. Reports to me (Director, Developer Platform).

Friendly, people-first, engineering-driven culture with competitive salary, great benefits, and real work-life balance.

Apply: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/ScribdInc/ff2680ea-9a6d-436d-bdb0-3... — or email me directly at cktaylor at scribd.com (I've hired off these threads before). Recruiters/agencies, please don't.

PlanetScale | https://planetscale.com/ | Software Engineer - PlanetScale Postgres | Remote (AMER, LATAM & EMEA) | Base range: $120,000 - $290,000 USD

I'm the hiring manager for this position.

Come build the best Postgres product on the planet with super talented folks, very high autonomy, tier-zero databases for some of the biggest and fastest growing data sets.

Apply at https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/planetscale/jobs/4251150009.

Feel free to contact me on LinkedIn or Bluesky if you'd like to talk more about the role. Tell me why Postgres extensions are both great and terrible.

telli | Engineering, Design, GTM | On-site | Berlin, Germany

see more here -> https://hi.telli.com/join-us

Cephla | Member of Technical Staff | Intern, Contract to Full-time, Consulting | Onsite | https://www.cephla.com

Cephla is building the critical imaging infrastructure for modern biology and drug discovery. As a 2023 spinout from Stanford, we already have ~ 100 systems in leading academic labs, techbio startups, pharma and cancer centers. With adoption accelerating we're looking for a member of technical staff (intern/contract to full-time/consulting) for our smart microscopy, large scale automation and self-driving lab efforts. You will work directly with our users, with applications spanning from basic research to precision medicine.

What we look for: passionate about science / impact on patients, strong software engineering fundamentals, experience with hardware-adjacent systems, having shipped solutions where reliability is critical.

Apply at https://www.cephla.com/careers/mts-intern-smart-microscopy

Mechanize | San Francisco, CA (Onsite) | Junior SWE ($300k + equity + bonus), SWE ($350k + equity + bonus), Research Engineer, Alignment ($500k + equity + bonus)

Applying takes https://www.mechanize.work/apply/

We build environments that frontier AI labs use to train their models to do real-world software engineering. Team of ~45. We have more demand than we can keep up with, so we're hiring fast. Backed by Nat Friedman, Daniel Gross, Adam D'Angelo, and Patrick Collison.

Budibase,

Remote first, office in Belfast UK

Senior Engineers 60-90k, agentic operations

https://budibase.bamboohr.com/careers/46

Hevy | Lead/Senior React Native Engineer & Lead/Senior Backend Engineer | Barcelona, Spain | Hybrid | Relocation

Hevy is a multiplatform weight lifting tracker that lets athletes log their workouts, track progress and be part of a community of gym athletes. We are a bootstrapped fitness and technology company operating out of Barcelona, Spain.

Relocation to Spain: full relocation package, work permit + residence permit for spouse, hybrid (2-3 days in office/week), competitive salary + performance bonus. https://www.hevyapp.com/careers/

ONSITE(Monday-Thursday), REMOTE(Fridays)
LOCATION: Nashville TN (Elm Hill Pk)

I have 2 open roles on my teams in Nashville! APPLY BELOW!!

We have a wonderful culture and a really great team. We have early outs on Fridays (12pm during the summer and 3pm the rest of the year). We are very flexible, so if you've got a personal or family thing to take care of, work from home that day or take care of what you need to take care of, its not a problem. Our goal is to empower our team members, so we care about outputs, not micromanaging tasks.

I am personally very happy with my choice to join Workwear Outfitters' IT. We are in a really cool moment where we are working on modernizing our legacy systems and transforming our way of working into a Business within a Business model.

Come work with us!

https://workwear.wd503.myworkdayjobs.com/Careers?jobFamilyGr...

Authorium | Full-Stack Engineer (Mid & Senior) | San Francisco, CA | ONSITE (Mon-Thu hybrid) | Full-time | $148k-230k + equity | https://authorium.com

We're building the operating system for the digital infrastructure of government. Authorium is a GovTech SaaS platform that unifies the messy, high-stakes workflows (procurement, grants, budgeting) that keep state and local governments running. We replace fragmented docs, spreadsheets and decades-old legacy systems with a unified data layer managing billions in public funds. Customers include California's CDSS, CalPERS, and EDD, plus major agencies in NY, Florida and Washington.

We're >40 people, growing 45% YoY, with a clear path to profitability in 2026. Real product-market fit, scale, and impact.

We're standing up our SF office as the war room for our hardest problems: modularizing our core domain, designing the next-gen workflow engine, building versioning and approval systems that hold up across dozens of customer configurations. You'd whiteboard, debug, and ship in person alongside a high-caliber team.

Stack: Ruby on Rails BE, Hotwire and Next.js FE, enterprise form and document capabilities. We're leveraging AI in our development process: Claude Code for specs, agentic testing, automated reviews.

Two roles open:

- Full-Stack Engineer (3+ yrs) | $148,750-$201,250 + equity | https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/Authorium/b59ff28c-3e3c-4190-abaa-a...
- Senior Full-Stack Engineer (6+ yrs) | $170,000-$230,000 + equity | https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/Authorium/dc83e0dd-9279-4381-9930-f...

Both value deep fundamentals (system design, database optimization, clean architecture) over specific syntax. Bonus for Rails, document-heavy systems, or regulated-industry experience (GovTech, FinTech, HealthTech).

Benefits: 100% employee coverage, 401(k), flexible PTO, home office + commuter stipend.

Apply at the links above (mention Hacker News). I'm Jay, co-founder and xCIO of City of SF. Happy to connect directly if you have questions, just reply here or reach out jay@authorium.com

Global Partners — Senior Director, Data Engineering Location: Waltham, MA (moving to Newton, MA within the next month) 
Pay Range $182,300.00 - $291,500.00
Fortune 500 energy company (fuel distribution, terminals, retail, etc.).

Hiring a Senior Director, Data Engineering to lead our data platform (Snowflake, dbt, Dagster, DataHub), team, and strategy. Actively hiring- Apply: https://careers.globalp.com/senior-director-data-engineering...

Mason | Software Engineer | Fulltime | San Francisco | thisismason.com

We're building an agent to manage single family rental properties across the United States. We currently manage ~12,000 homes, are growing quickly, and are looking for full stack, back-end leaning engineers who would love to contribute to a state of the art agent.

I've written a bit about our culture + product before:

-> What it means to be "in-person" with our customers: https://www.thisismason.com/blog/being-there -> LLM Communications in the wild: https://www.thisismason.com/blog/llm-communications-in-the-w...

If interested, reach out directly to me: michael@thisismason.com

BIT Capital | Head of Engineering | Berlin, Germany | ONSITE (2 days/week) | Full-time

Looking for the key engineering leader to build and scale infrastructure and data platforms for a Berlin asset management fund. We are betting big on AI to drive investment returns and build the best infrastructure to support our high alpha targets (track record >35% p.a. since inception; https://bitcap.com/en/bit-global-technology-opportunities-ai...).

You'll design large-scale data pipelines, evolve our lakehouse architecture, strengthen data quality and observability, and build infrastructure for AI/LLM workflows (agentic scaffolding, RAG, LLMOps, AI for engineering). We are looking for a hands-on technical leader, that is steering initiatives end-to-end while staying deep in implementation.

We have our roots in tech entrepreneurship (Jan Beckers), and this mindset still dominates our work culture, even as a regulated financial institution. We are a team of 45 tech- & investment experts with a flat hierarchy, hands-on leadership, fast-paced decisions, and a little nerdy culture as people are actually passionate about their work. Stack: AWS, Databricks/Spark, Python, PostgreSQL, Agentic AI.

If the complexity of financial markets excites you as much as the complexity of distributed systems, you'll love it here. Competitive comp, relocation & visa support, stellar team.

Reach out via: marc.thanhaeuser@bitcap.com

Caplight | caplight.com | Backeind/Fullstack Engineer | Full-time | SF | $225k-$350k + equity

Caplight is a profitable fintech company reimagining the private markets. We build data, trading, research, and workflow tooling for VCs and other private company investors. We're closing a Series A on the back of strong success with our current platform which focuses on helping late-stage VCs track realtime pricing on pre-IPO companies like Anthropic, Stripe, SpaceX, etc. Our goal over the next year is to build powerful agentic workflows to automate large parts of the VC ecosystem.

Looking for product-minded AGI-pilled engineers. If interested, email me with a short description of your background and why you believe you're right for the role: justin at caplight.com (if you write your email with AI I will not read it)

Beacon AI | San Carlos, CA | Hybrid (On-Site) | Full-Time | www.beaconai.co

Beacon AI builds intelligent systems that make aviation safer and more autonomous. We’ve completed multiple DoD programs and are expanding our team with exceptional technical leaders to push the boundaries of human-machine collaboration in the cockpit. At Beacon, you will lead by example, mentoring and growing a small team of talented engineers (typically 1–2 to start) while staying hands-on in design and execution. You’ll help shape critical systems that advance aviation safety and autonomy, working alongside a team that values effort, creativity, and accountability.

We’re hiring Lead Engineers with 5-9 YOE who love solving complex problems. At Beacon, you’ll own your work end-to-end, from prototype to deployment, and literally see your code take flight in real world aviation environments! Roles:

++ iOS Engineer [Tech Stack: Swift, SwiftUI, UIKit, Mapbox]

++ Senior Security Engineer [SIEM, IDS/IPS, vulnerability scanning, encryption]

++ Infra/Backend Engineer [Tech Stack: AWS]

++ WebApp/FrontEnd Engineer [Tech Stack: Python, Typescript, React]

++ Lead Autonomy/Robotics Engineer [Tech Stack: C++, Python, iOT]

Join us at beaconai.co/careers. Mention in the application that you saw our post on HN.

Apple | Sr. DevOps Engineer | Bay Area | Onsite

We are looking for a Platform Engineer with API and Infrastructure experience who has written web applications and knows how to deploy and scale code to production environments they helped create.

https://jobs.apple.com/en-us/details/200631016-0836/devops-e...

Northstar Security | Software Engineer | SF Bay Area | Onsite | Full-time

We're a seed-stage startup building the context layer for agentic cybersecurity - if you're in the SF Bay Area reach out to alex@northstar.security

Temporal Technologies | Multiple positions in United States - WORK FROM HOME | FULL-TIME |

Temporal offers an entirely new way to build scalable and reliable applications. Temporal enables developers to focus on writing important business logic, and not on managing state or worrying about the underlying infrastructure. Backed by top VC firms, we have built a team of professionals from various successful start-ups and well-known technology companies.

We're looking for senior level engineers for multiple roles - https://www.temporal.io/careers

FEATURED ROLES:

Staff Software Engineer, Open Source Server → https://grnh.se/942b12a77us

Senior Software Engineer, Open Source Server → https://grnh.se/470c51e97us

Senior Software Engineer, Observability → https://grnh.se/o9hj7ocn7us

Staff Software Engineer, AI Developer Experience → https://grnh.se/lrjcxk0h7us

Senior Staff Software Engineer, Infrastructure → https://grnh.se/l2ct6nkv7us

Senior Product Manager, Scalability & Compute → https://grnh.se/dmirdld87us

Staff Product Manager, Developer Lifecycle & Tooling → https://grnh.se/ei1g00jn7us

Staff Product Manager, Core Primitives →https://grnh.se/08oss2q07us

Staff Product Manager, Agent Platform → https://grnh.se/w05hr5tl7us

US benefits include: Unlimited PTO, 12 Holidays + 2 Floating Holidays, 100% Premiums Coverage for Medical, Dental, and Vision, AD&D, LT & ST Disability and Life Insurance , Empower 401K Plan, Additional Perks for Learning & Development, Lifestyle Spending, In-Home Office Setup, Professional Memberships, WFH Meals, Internet Stipend and more! Benefits outside the United States vary by country.

Rootly | Design, Engineering, GTM, Legal, Product, Sales| Hybrid (Toronto), Remote (APAC) | Full-time

We provide an on-call, incident management, and AI SRE platform. We are used by companies like NVIDIA, LinkedIn, and Dropbox.

We are a YC S21 company with ~100 employees and are very fast-growing. We have 15+ open positions.

https://rootly.com/careers#open-roles

Emurse | https://emurse.io/jobs | Outbound Sales Specialist | Remote | Part-Time

Emurse is a platform for learning languages with a focus on instructor-led courses, phonetics and comprehensible input.

Your mission as an Outbound Sales Specialist is simple: identify high-value targets, craft compelling email sequences, and turn cold contacts into warm introductory meetings.

To apply, review the instructions and job details at https://emurse.io/jobs.

We are looking for founding engineer for https://trustedrouter.com/

End to end encrypted hosted open source clone of OpenRouter

Flowstate | Senior/Staff Full-stack Engineer | London, UK (Hybrid)

AI spend is skyrocketing in the workplace, and leadership can’t attribute, can’t classify, can’t forecast, can’t control that spend accurately. Flowstate is the insights & governance layer for AI workforces.

https://www.flowstate.inc/careers/

Trayd | Senior Fullstack Software Engineer | NYC (Fidi) ONSITE | $185K-$220K + equity

Trayd is building the operating system for construction payroll and back office. We make payroll fast and compliant for workers and subcontractors in a massive industry that still runs on spreadsheets and outdated systems.
YC-backed and growing quickly with real customers and weekly payroll in production.

Apply here: https://www.ycombinator.com/companies/trayd/jobs/1Ez3l4b-sen...

Techanic Infotech

Techanic Infotech is a leading software development company that has gained recognition for building on-demand delivery applications, logistics platforms, and scalable mobile solutions. Community discussions frequently highlight the company's expertise in GPS tracking, route optimization, and fuel delivery platform development.

Zūm | Senior/Staff Software Engineer | Hybrid/onsite (Redwood City, CA), Full-time

Zūm (ridezum.com) is reinventing K-12 student transportation in the U.S. — a $30B+ industry that moves 26 million kids every school day. Our Connected Mobility Experience (CMX) platform combines modern routing, real-time tracking, and an EV fleet to give school districts a smarter, more transparent alternative to legacy transportation providers. Backed by TPG, Sequoia, and SoftBank with $430M raised at a $1.7B valuation, Zum operates in major districts including San Francisco and Oakland Unified, where they deployed the first all-electric school bus fleet in the country.

We're hiring Senior and Staff-level product-oriented backend software engineers as well as a Senior Product Manager.  These are hybrid/onsite roles with an expectation of working from our amazing Redwood City HQ 3x/week.

Senior Engineer, Backend Platform: https://jobs.lever.co/ridezum/d458798c-7ab9-4979-bd5c-f79178...

Staff Engineer, Backend Platform:  https://jobs.lever.co/ridezum/d02682b6-9e55-43b7-aff3-457af4...

Senior Product Manager: https://jobs.lever.co/ridezum/1c28a668-6552-4b2e-ab6c-1e9be5...

z0.ai | Full Time | Founding Engineer | On Site 5 days a week | NYC | $140-$180k USD + equity

We're helping non technical users adopt AI by making usage visible. Power users become role models and people can upskill to gain value rather than lose their jobs to AI.

It's a complex problem because we need to balance trivial UX, with a slew of security and compliance requirements.

This is the first non founder developer role on the z0.ai codebase. We need someone who can own the full stack end to end: product surfaces people enjoy using, services that stay correct, and the taste to make both feel like one product.

We're funded and are live with our first customer already. We expect to onboard our next customer later this week and are actively ramping up sales efforts.

Check out the full job posting at https://www.z0.ai/careers/founding-engineer/ and send an email to join@z0.ai

Otherling | Senior Full-Stack Software Engineer | Hybrid NYC or LA | Full Time

Otherling is a fashion e-commerce startup helping consumers discover emerging luxury brands. We're hiring a Senior Full-Stack Engineer to design, build, and maintain our platform end-to-end.

REQUIREMENTS
- 4+ years in software development (CS degree or equivalent)
- React, Next.js, Tailwind CSS
- Python or Node.js
- SQL/NoSQL/Postgres and data modeling
- REST and/or GraphQL APIs
- Docker and AWS (ECS, Cognito, S3, Lambda, RDS)
- Shopify platform and API development
- Plus: startup or luxury-fashion interest

APPLY
Email otherling@vornoy.com, subject 'Otherling dev'. Include your resume and location (New York or Los Angeles).

Conductor | San Francisco, ONSITE | Full-time

Conductor lets builders run teams of coding agents. We're a small team, we recently announced our $22m Series A, and we're looking for exceptional software engineers and designers to join us.

https://www.conductor.build/join-us

Hiring: Senior Data Engineer ($170-190k), Senior DevOps Engineer ($180-225k), Senior DevOps Engineer - Infrastructure & MLOps ($180-225k), Senior Full Stack AI Engineer - Natural Language Systems ($160-220k), Senior Full Stack AI Engineer - Rapid Prototyping & Analytics ($160-220k), Senior Software Engineer ($170-220k), Support Engineer ($90-125k).

Building the AI operating system for healthcare. Join us in applying AI to real-world healthcare workflows where reliability, scale, and user trust matter. Remote US.
Apply: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/prompt

Castleton Tower | Senior Consultant (Data Engineering, Investment Analytics, Strategy) | Hybrid (US)

Castleton Tower is a boutique consulting firm founded by executives who have built and led quantitative research, data science, and technology teams at top-tier hedge funds and asset managers. We work with investment management firms (asset allocators, asset managers, hedge funds, family offices, and RIAs) helping them modernize their data infrastructure and build AI-ready foundations.

We're looking for smart, motivated, high-agency people with similar backgrounds in either data engineering or investing.

The two highest priority roles we have open are both data engineering roles: one senior role in the Northeast US, and one junior role in the Bay Area. Both have in-office requirements and can be found here:

Northeast: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/castletontower/dbfd792b-6044-4e06-8...

Bay Area: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/castletontower/05efebc0-25f2-45ca-8...

Annex Risk | Full-stack + Backend Engineer | Bay Area, Austin | Full-time

The cost of homeowners insurance, especially in natural catastrophe prone areas, has skyrocketed in recent years. Annex is solving this problem with better digital infrastructure for executing the transaction. Our platform enables insurance agents to quote and bind policies within 90 seconds vs. the current multi-day phone/email/fax-based transaction that is the status quo.

We grew 4x in 2025 and anticipate similar growth in 2026. We've done the above after deploying https://wellfound.com/jobs/4130991-software-engineer-full-st...

Backend Engineer: https://wellfound.com/jobs/3060211-software-engineer-backend

SalesJack | Toronto, ON, Canada | Hybrid | Full-time

SalesJack is a sales software platform (CRM + prospecting service) for independent businesses in the construction supply industry. Growing quickly and profitably; building out our engineering team in Canada. Stack: Next.js, Node, Postgres, BullMQ, Snowflake.

-- Implementation Engineer — C$120k–140k

Own the technical side of bringing new customers live: ERP integrations, product category mapping, data migration, on-site training, plus post-launch reports and custom integrations. You work directly with founders, engineers, and the dealers using the product. Looking for 2+ years in solutions/implementation/data engineering, strong SQL (Snowflake/Postgres), comfort with REST APIs (auth, pagination, rate limits), and interest in construction supply ERPs (BisTrack, DMSi Agility, ECI Spruce).

Apply: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/salesjack/3ab994a1-00fa-4826-8069-7...

-- Senior Full Stack Engineer — C$180k–200k

Own major product surfaces end-to-end, from talking to customers and scoping through architecture, implementation, and iteration. No PM layer — engineers closest to the problem own the solution. Looking for 8–10 years full stack, deep React/Next.js, strong Node.js in production at scale, advanced Postgres (multi-tenant, query optimization), auth/RBAC in multi-tenant B2B, and BullMQ or similar (Sidekiq, SQS, Temporal). Real product instincts required.

Apply: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/salesjack/7ba3df69-8edf-4496-9e12-9...

Silkline | Infra/Software Engineer | Seattle, Chicago | ONSITE (5 days/week) | $175k-$240k + equity

How are AI and A1 the same? https://silkline.ai/blog/ai-or-a1

Come join a team that believes the future of AI isn't "agents everywhere!" but a thoughtful approach to building a product that incorporates AI from day one.

Modern hardware supply chains run on spreadsheets, email, and PDFs. It's like fax woke up in 2025. We're fixing this and on the path to becoming THE supply chain platform for aerospace, defense, nuclear, and beyond.

Our customers: Machina Labs, Astranis, K2 Space, Castelion, Antares, and more. They use us to manage suppliers, track $M+ in orders, automate RFQs, and stay ITAR-compliant. Every day of production delay costs $50k+—our platform keeps them moving.

Open Roles: 
 - Founding Infra: https://jobs.gem.com/silkline/am9icG9zdDpQyr2jvCN0RE56hX_De1...
 - Software Engineer: https://jobs.gem.com/silkline/am9icG9zdDrLwsEQTKKa02Ut_F9kgz...

We're selling software faster than we can build it out here, folks. Come be employee 12 -> 20 and help get from customer ** -> ***

Want to unmask the *'s? Email me: brent@silkline.ai (mention HN)

Prior Labs | Berlin / Freiburg / NYC | ONSITE | Full-time | Multiple Roles | priorlabs.ai

Deep learning transformed text and images but mostly skipped tables, even though they're behind most clinical trials, financial models, and scientific experiments. The reason is structural: no natural sequence, no spatial structure, no shared vocabulary across datasets, so the architectures and scaling laws behind LLMs don't transfer. We're building the foundation-model approach for tabular data.
We started with TabPFN. v2 was published in Nature and set a new state of the art on tabular benchmarks; since release we've scaled capabilities ~20x and crossed 3M+ downloads and 6k+ GitHub stars. The hard problems are still open: scaling to millions of rows, low-latency inference, new data modalities, and the infrastructure to run all of it in production.

Open roles:
- Senior ML Infrastructure Engineer - own multi-cluster GPU infra (Slurm on GCP today, multi-provider next), training performance, and the tooling layer. We spend tens of millions/year on compute; you own that budget. Train your own architecture if you've got one.
- ML Engineer, Cloud Platform - design and scale the backend and infra that serve and finetune the models. Python/FastAPI, Terraform, K8s.
- Full Stack Engineer, ML Platform - build the product end to end, data upload through inference. TS + Python, React/FastAPI/Postgres.
- Research Scientist, Foundation Model - drive the model agenda: novel architectures, scaling 10K to 1M+ samples, multimodal and causal directions. PhD + top-venue publications or equivalent.

Also hiring: Applied Scientist, Forward Deployed ML Engineer, Developer Relations Engineer, AE, BDR.

30-person team with backgrounds from Google, G-Research, Jane Street, Goldman, CERN. Led by Frank Hutter, advised by Bernhard Schölkopf and Yann LeCun. Comp competitive with top AI labs.

All roles: https://priorlabs.ai/careers

Emergences Labs (emergences.ai) | AI / Systems Engineer — NeoHuman | REMOTE (US) | Full-time | $120K-$150K + equity | Visa sponsorship available

We're a small, research-driven, VC-backed team building NeoHuman: a desktop-first system that observes how people actually use AI tools, files, and workflows during real tasks, and turns those sessions into reliable evaluation evidence. We care about the process, not just the final answer — what someone typed, what they copied, what they verified, how they moved across apps.

We've published the AgentIF-OneDay benchmark. Now we're scaling the capture and evaluation infrastructure underneath it.

You'd own:
- Cross-platform desktop capture across macOS + Windows (AX/UIA trees, OCR, clipboard, keyboard/mouse boundaries, file interactions)
- Trace fusion — turning noisy low-level signals into clean human-readable session timelines
- The evaluation evidence pipeline (data model, ingestion, exports)
- LLM normalization that summarizes traces without hallucinating or hiding evidence quality
- Privacy/consent/proctoring safety for enterprise customers

We want an AI-native engineer:
- 3+ years shipping production TypeScript + Node.js
- Built or shipped Electron + native helpers
- Strong PostgreSQL (schema design, indexing, data quality)
- Comfortable with OS APIs, permissions, background processes
- Hands-on LLM API experience (structured output, evaluation, hallucination control)
- Uses Claude Code, Cursor, or similar as a daily working medium — not a side experiment
- Bonus: macOS AX / ScreenCaptureKit / CGEventTap, Windows UIA, or you've studied/built things like Screenpipe, OpenAdapt, Rewind, OpenChronicle

Stack: TypeScript · Node.js · Electron · native macOS/Windows · Next.js 15 · React 19 · Postgres + Supabase · OCR · Accessibility APIs · OpenAI / Anthropic / Gemini · Vercel · GitHub Actions

Why us: Hard, unusual problem at the boundary of OS internals, multimodal capture, and AI evaluation. Small team, technical founders who code daily, real ownership of the capture stack. We hire on demonstrated capability, not credentials.

Apply: email jack@emergences.ai with your resume and a brief note about a system you've built — desktop software, AI infra, data pipelines, evaluation, or low-level debugging. Subject: "Your Name — AI / Systems Engineer". Please mention HN in the email.

Full JD: https://emergences.ai/careers/ai-engineer

Post Up | Full time | Senior Backend Engineer | Onsite | Vancouver, BC (Hybrid) | Salary: $120-$130k CAD | https://www.postup.pro

I'm Wilson, co-founder of Post Up. We're building the Databricks for content production. We're building an agentic orchestration system that coordinates production pipelines end to end and turns post-production workflows into a persistent graph of assets and transformations, which are deterministic, verifiable, and nearly instant at scale, powered by a high-performance compute layer.

We're building this AI-native from the ground up; ML inference is embedded throughout the pipeline, not bolted on.

Stack: On-prem, HPC clusters, distributed storage systems, GPU pipelines, real-time video compute.

We're looking for our founding senior backend engineer who wants to work on genuinely challenging infrastructure problems across distributed systems and media processing with immense scale. Should be familiar with Golang, Postgres, Distributed systems, Distributed filesystems (e.g. HDFS, Ceph, etc).

Me: https://www.linkedin.com/in/hayswilson/

How to apply: Email me directly at wilson@postup.pro or Submit here: https://app.notion.com/p/Founding-Senior-Backend-Engineer-31...

Foam | Staff Founding Eng | In-Person, San Francisco | Full-time (M-F 9am-7pm) | $300-$400k/yr + equity

Foam is building a Better Sentry on an observability stack purpose-built for AI. We automatically identify and root-cause breakages across systems with zero prompting and zero configuration then DM the engineer responsible, not the git-blamed engineer.

We're looking for a hands on keyboard Staff Founding Engineer who's been unshackled by modern coding agents.

Here's a few of the problems we'd love your help on:

1. Reducing our onboarding time from hours to seconds

2. Scaling our telemetry engine into the petabytes

3. Collapsing our latency from minutes to seconds

4. Beating our intern at chess (ELO 2200)

You'll be joining an incredible team:

1. Ben, Software Engineer Intern, https://www.linkedin.com/in/ben-hung/, beat out dozens of seniors on our coding challenges while holding a 3.9+ GPA in Berkeley EECS and 2200 in Rapid chess

2. Nyx, Founding Research Engineer, https://www.linkedin.com/in/nyx-iskandar/, Prev VP ML@Berkeley, Open AI Launchpad Researcher, Berkeley EECS (2.5yrs w/3.98 GPA)

3. Luke, Co-Founder & COO, https://www.linkedin.com/in/lukemercado/, Fmr CTO & Co-Founder @ Daybreak Health (S20, Series B), self taught SWE (2013), college reject

4. Shawn, Co-Founder & Engineer, https://www.linkedin.com/in/shawn-krisman/, early @ Yelp, Everlane, Reddit, Patreon & Affirm

5. Perla, Co-Founder & CEO, https://www.linkedin.com/in/perla-gamez/, delivered ~$X00M revenue @ Affirm as a SWE, Berkeley CS ('18), Honduras National Karate Champ

We've raised $10M in seed funding from Khosla Ventures, Max Levchin, The House Fund, and South Park Commons and others.

Visas Supported: H1B Transfer, H1B1, TN, E-3, OPT-STEM

Email careers at foam dot ai with your resume and we'll get back to you within 24 hours.

Tenki Cloud by Luxor Tech | San Francisco, CA | Head of Developer Relations | Full-time | Remote (SF-based required for event assistance) | https://tenki.cloud/

We're building Tenki — Luxor's compute platform. It started as internal runner infrastructure, now powers code-review agents and isolated agent sandboxes (ADE), and the roadmap extends to agent workflows, background automation, and CPU/GPU compute. If you know what that space involves, you'll understand why our bar is high.

We need someone with real engineering experience who has also built a public technical audience. A GitHub with stars, a blog that's been running for a couple years, a YouTube channel engineers watch, or X threads people argue with. You don't need all of them, but you need something real to show.

What you'll actually be doing:
  Show up at SF meetups, hackathons, and developer events — be the person engineers meet first when they hear about Tenki

  Working side by side with engineering and product teams so you can speak honestly about how things work — and making sure that developer feedback shapes the roadmap
  
  Weekly livestreams running Tenki against real OSS bugs

  Teardown threads on X when a release ships

  Public benchmarks and honest post-mortems
  
  Structure: You'd be the first person in this seat. Small, technical team. No playbook yet — full ownership. We want to grow with and because of you. 
  
  Apply: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/luxor/eba7430f-c1f5-4d0b-933a-1b9950ead0b7?utm_source=YC

Baton | San Francisco, CA (Hybrid) and Remote | Full-Time
Baton (baton.io) is Ryder's in-house product development group focused on harnessing emerging technologies to redefine transportation and logistics. With $10B in freight under management, our technology reaches every part of the U.S. economy.

We design and ship category-defining software that enables Ryder and its 50,000+ customers—including some of the world's most well-known brands—to plan and execute freight intelligently, efficiently, and cost-effectively. Our work includes everything from customer-facing software to the data platform that will power the next era of innovation at Ryder.

Baton's mission: enable supply chain on autopilot.

Ryder acquired Baton in 2022 to power its next wave of digital products. We operate at startup speed, with Fortune 500 reach. If you have a passion for solving complex problems and creating impact for the engine of the American economy, you'll love it here.

Current openings at Baton:

* Senior Software Engineer - Full Stack, Technical Lead (hybrid, $200,000 - $250,000): https://grnh.se/wkmk2d0e7us

* Group Product Manager, Platform (hybrid, $220,000 - $270,000): https://grnh.se/bd8io8wp7us

* Head of Technical Operations (hybrid, $180,000- $230,000): https://grnh.se/gw86i0tc7us

* Senior Product Designer (hybrid, $140,000 - $190,000): https://grnh.se/2nlrivyp7us

* Software Engineer - Infrastructure, Data Platform (hybrid, $162,000 - $216,000): https://grnh.se/d6s6od6w7us

* Product Marketing Manager (remote, $90,000 - $140,000): https://grnh.se/r7unwhdx7us

* Engineer Manager, Engineering Productivity & Cloud Infrastructure (hybrid, $250,000 - $275,000): https://grnh.se/w9pg8scf7us

* Product Intelligence & Data Analytics Manager (remote, $90,000 - $140,000): https://grnh.se/lyd76nke7us

Puntt AI | Forward Deployed Engineer + Senior Applied AI Engineer (Agentic Systems) | Onsite SF | Full-time

Puntt AI is the system of record for enterprise marketing compliance. Our AI agents turn hours of manual brand and packaging review into minutes of automated precision. Danone, Nestlé, and Kenvue are live customers. The product works. Now we scale.

Forward Deployed Engineer | $190k + equity
https://wellfound.com/l/2CiVyv

The FDE is the person in the room when an enterprise customer shows you their actual broken process. You run discovery, figure out what's really going wrong, configure and ship against it, and bring that signal back to product in a way the team can actually use. You work directly alongside our CEO in live enterprise cycles. What you learn shapes what we build next.

Best fit: solutions engineering, field engineering, or technical founder background. You've been in enterprise rooms, you get to the real problem fast, and you can build the thing that proves the fix. Full stack, AI-native, 7+ years.

Senior Applied AI Engineer | $185k-$210k + 0.75%-1.25% equity
https://wellfound.com/l/2C3WzL

This role owns the agentic core -- multi-agent orchestration, RAG and retrieval, stateful async workflows (Temporal), and the eval frameworks that make compliance AI trustworthy at scale. If you've spent real time thinking about failure modes, observability, and what reliable actually means when LLMs are in the loop, that's who we're looking for.

5-7+ years production engineering. 1-2+ years building with LLMs in real applications. Strong Python. Hands-on RAG.

MongoDB | Senior/Staff/Lead Site Reliability Engineers (SRE) and Infra SWE, Multiple Teams | REMOTE (US) or HYBRID (NYC, Dublin) | Full-Time

We are looking for experienced Site Reliability Engineers and Infrastructure Software Engineers to help build, scale, and secure the foundation of MongoDB Atlas, our globally distributed, multi-cloud database platform running across AWS, GCP, and Azure.

SRE at MongoDB is a builder role. We are heavily focused on making the platform more scalable, resilient, secure and self-service.

We have open roles (Senior, Staff, Lead) across several of our core Infrastructure teams:

- Infrastructure Security (InfraSec): Building infrastructure security controls and security observability tooling leveraging eBPF and Linux security mechanisms.

- Fabric: Building out service mesh, networking, and internal traffic routing.

- Storage Layer Services: Building our next-generation disaggregated storage architectures.

- Fleet Management & Deployments: Automating the lifecycle, deployments, and control planes of massive multi-cloud Kubernetes clusters.

- Atlas Infrastructure: Building core infrastructure operations on hundreds of thousands of Linux servers.

You could be a fit if:

- 5+ years of experience in SWE, SRE, or similar roles.

- Proficiency in at least one programming language: Golang, Rust, Python, C/C++ etc.

- Deep understanding of Linux internals, networking, distributed systems, and/or Kubernetes.

- Familiarity with at least one major cloud provider (AWS, GCP, or Azure).

- A builder's mentality: you think about failure modes, observability, and operability alongside correctness.

For any questions, or to apply directly (please mention HN) email: hani.benhabiles+hn@mongodb.com

https://www.mongodb.com/careers/jobs/7727896

https://www.mongodb.com/careers/jobs/7758610

Chime | Senior Application Security Engineer, Product Security Engineer, Manager - Product Security | San Francisco / Chicago / New York | Hybrid

I’m an Engineering Manager in Security at Chime, and we’re actively hiring for three roles on our broader Product Security org:

Senior Application Security Engineer: https://careers.chime.com/jobs/8373535002/senior-application...

Product Security Engineer: https://careers.chime.com/jobs/8141068002/product-security-e...

Manager - Product Security: https://careers.chime.com/jobs/8526680002/manager-product-se...

Chime is a financial technology company focused on helping everyday Americans unlock financial progress. We built Chime on the premise that core banking services should be helpful, easy, and free, and our security teams play a direct role in protecting the products and infrastructure that members rely on.

Our Product Security org works across application and infrastructure security, security design and architecture reviews, and vulnerability management. We partner closely with engineering teams to identify, prioritize, and remediate risk early, with an emphasis on making security practical, embedded in everyday development, and useful to the teams building Chime’s products. If you’re excited about being on the front lines of securing both AI and financial technology, this is a particularly interesting place to do that work. We currently have Senior Application Security Engineer, Product Security Engineer, and Manager - Product Security open.

If none of those are quite the right fit, feel free to apply anyway! We expect to open more security roles in the near future across a range of experience levels and specializations.

https://careers.chime.com/jobs/

Diffusion | All | SF Bay (Peninsula) | On site, full-time

Justin here, founder @ Diffusion. Formerly co-founder & CTO @ StrongDM.

Diffusion is a factory for building software factories, and today is launch day :)

All career stages welcome (including new grads). Please expect satisfying, dignifying intensity.

Email hello@diffusion.io / Read more https://diffusion.io

Forward (getfwd.com) | Austin, TX | ONSITE | Full-time

Rebuilding payments for software platforms: transparent economics, no lock-in, hands-on execution. Modern TypeScript stack, real-time streaming, AWS, and heavy investment in agentic AI / LLM orchestration in production.

Hiring (all onsite Austin):

- Sr Software Engineer (7+ yrs, expert TS full-stack)

- Director of Engineering (12+ yrs, scaled 10->50+)

- Risk Data Scientist

- Incident Management Lead

- Risk Intelligence Lead

- Founding Growth Marketing Director

- Senior Partner Sales Consultant

All roles + apply: https://www.getfwd.com/careers/

Questions: amays+hn@getfwd.com (mention HN)

Logenta.ai | Founder/CTO | Germany

We're building an agentic data analytics companion for intralogistics.

Looking for a hands-on founder/CTO who can design and ship an agent-based system end-to-end. You're comfortable building an agent harness, write clean typed Python, and have experience with tools like uv, DuckDB, and PydanticAI. You must be based in Germany.

If this sounds like you, email: michele.dallachiesa+logenta-cto2@sigforge.com with subject "HN Who's Hiring - Logenta CTO". Include your CV and answer one question: "why me?".

akeno | Staff/Senior Full-Stack Engineer | Hamburg, Germany (ONSITE) | https://www.akeno.ai/

We’re doing planning software for huge factories, predominantly in the chemical industry where processes are complex and there is always a fun new edge case or uncertainty to account for.

You’d love to work here if you’re a REAL full-stack! Not a React programmer who has used an ORM once but someone who knows both about aspects of UX design, the nitty gritty of DBs (MVCC, transaction isolation levels, partitioning, …), and everything in between. You’ve usually been the strongest in these areas within your company and finally want to work in an environment where you have peers, not people you first need to train.

So if you can argue why REST in a lot of situations is a smarter choice than GraphQL, why doing integration tests might be better than blindly following the testing pyramid, why DAOs or query builders are superior to ORMS, or in general you have “seen stuff and fixed shit” but also care more about a successful product than tech stuff, this might be the environment for you to shine.

https://apply.workable.com/akeno/j/D49DFF9F6E/

Blackshark AI | Software Engineers & Platform Engineers | Full-time | Austria or Remote EU | VISA sponsorship available

We build geospatial AI infrastructure. Our platform lets analysts train custom object and change detection models on satellite/aerial/drone imagery in minutes, then reconstructs 3D terrain from those detections. We just shipped a planetary-scale simulation platform with Lockheed Martin powered by Unreal Engine.

If you want to work on distributed systems that run in a data center one day and an edge laptop the next, we have interesting problems. Our training and inference infrastructure is processing trillions of pixels and we deliver real world impact for our customers across defense, intelligence, and local governments.

Tech Stack: Python, Fast API, PyTorch, PostgreSQL, Redis, Vue.js

Infrastructure Stack: Kubernetes & Docker, Linux, AWS & Azure, Azure DevOps, Terraform, ELK, Prometheus & Grafana, ArgoCD & Helm

Roles:

Senior Software Engineer - Data Plane Team:
https://jobs.eu.lever.co/blackshark/17fbf310-ea37-435f-a198-...

Software Engineer - Data Plane Team: 
https://jobs.eu.lever.co/blackshark/6110fedd-5cd8-40e5-ac11-...

DevSecOps Engineer - Deployment Team:
https://jobs.eu.lever.co/blackshark/d425eda5-52ca-4e5c-a03d-...

Platform Engineer - Deployment Team: 
https://jobs.eu.lever.co/blackshark/56a85834-d986-4105-9cc8-...

or reach out to HM with questions at: 'eivanov@' + username[:-2] + '.' + username[-2:].lower()

Alembic | SF (5 days onsite) | SRE • C++ AI • Backend Python • Data Engineering

We melted GPUs chasing Causal AI — now we run one of the world's fastest private supercomputers, the only non-Fortune 500 company on earth operating one. Patented causal math, proving what actually drives revenue for the world's best enterprises.

Hiring: SREs to run our supercomputer, C++ engineers for AI systems, data engineers for enterprise-scale pipelines, and backend Python engineers for the platform.

Customers: NVIDIA, Delta, Mars. $145M Series B. Hiring SREs, C++ AI, data, and backend Python engineers.

https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/alembic?utm_source=MdakPrrV82

ALBERT | REMOTE ALMOST ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD| Hiring principal and distinguished engineers to build net new products | up to ~ $750k

Hiring: exceptional consumer product engineers at Albert.

We're a consumer fintech with 20M+ users who trust us to budget, save, invest, and bank in one place. Profitable for 4+ years. And as of today, our average employee tenure is 3.6 years, a number you almost never see in startup tech, and one we're quietly proud of. People stay because the work is good, the people are sharp, and we've built something worth staying for.

Now we're building net-new consumer products from zero, and we're looking for people who love to tinker and build stuff to ship them with us.

The kind of person we're looking for:
• Top fraction of a percentile in craft, the kind of good that's hard to fake
• Builds for fun, not just for work. The kind who ships a working prototype over the weekend and can't help themselves
• Comfortable owning 0 to 1 consumer products end-to-end
• Allergic to politics, theater, and bureaucracy

What you get:
• Remote, anywhere with reasonable timezone overlap (and for someone truly exceptional, we'll make async work)
• Real scale from day one (20M+ users, real money, real consequences)
• Compensation that beats the market. We pay well and we mean it. Base, discretionary year-end bonus, meaningful 401(k) match, and meaningful equity in a profitable, growing unicorn (the kind that's actually worth something)
• Platinum PPO health benefits with Blue Shield, top of the top of the line, covering your entire family
• A mission worth your time: make money simple, so people spend less time managing it and keep more of it
• Small senior-heavy teams, direct ownership, no layers
• Forthcoming with the business metrics that matter, so you always know how the company is actually doing
• The startup perks done right: catered lunches, wellness stipend, team offsites, casual dress. The stuff that compounds when you're showing up engaged for years, not months
• Profitable for 4+ years, so you build with conviction, not runway anxiety

Stack: python, claude, postgres, react.js /react native

If this is you, email us at recruiting@albert.com

Edit: we are in the process of rebuilding our career site to speak to how we hire (e.g. hunt, dont post, find the best). Just an FYI

Also, we carefully review every application. If we think there may be a fit, we'll reach out within a few business days. Either way, thank you for your interest in what we're building and for taking the time to connect with us.

GetDynasty.com | Engineering (In-Person San Fransisco or US Remote initially OK) | Junior Engineer | $100k-$120k + equity

Dynasty helps startup founders legally eliminate millions in capital gains taxes through QSBS trust planning. Today, sophisticated tax strategies are locked behind elite law firms and opaque processes. We’re building the software layer that makes advanced trust and tax infrastructure accessible, understandable, and fast.

We combine fintech, legal infrastructure, and thoughtful product design to turn what used to be months of paperwork and six-figure legal bills into a streamlined, guided platform. Our customers are venture-backed founders preparing for exits when the stakes are high and precision matters.

We’re early, fast-moving, and product-obsessed. This is a chance to help define the system of record for founder wealth.

Positions:

* Engineering: Hiring a junior engineer with a passion for building to help create the next generation of financial platforms.

Contact: kyle@getdynasty.com

Hestus | Machine Learning Engineer (Python, ML) | Peninsula (Onsite) | Full-time | $130k–$190k + equity | YC-funded

We're building AI-powered CAD tools to transform hardware development — think next-gen design workflows powered by custom ML models. We're a fast-moving startup, working with bleeding-edge tech at the intersection of mechanical engineering and AI.

We're looking for a versatile ML engineer to help us scale: develop and deploy custom models and prototype tools that make complex design work simpler and faster.

https://www.hestus.co/careers for more information

CData | Forward Deployed Engineer + Principal FDE (Agentic Systems) | Remote | Full-time

Details of the Job here:
https://ats.rippling.com/cdata-software/jobs/bd754ddd-30c4-4...

https://ats.rippling.com/cdata-software/jobs/e9d1d4fa-18c9-4...

Remote with possible some travel

Axle Health | https://www.axlehealth.com/ | Backend Python/Django - Interoperability Node/Typescript | ONSITE: Santa Monica (5 days)

Axle Health builds scheduling and workforce management software to empower in-home healthcare providers to deliver exceptional, personalized care right where patients feel most comfortable—at home.

Hiring: hands on builders who thrive on in person collaboration. Ideal Senior SWE candidates have 8+ years of experience working with complex mission critical platforms.

Apply at: https://www.axlehealth.com/careers#jobSection

9 Mothers YC P26 | Robotics | Austin, ONSITE | $150-400k + equity + benefits | 9mothers.com

I'm Roman, co-founder of 9 Mothers. We're building AI weapon systems in Austin, TX. Our first product is designed to stop group 1 suicide drones. We started in 2025 and are still a small team of fewer than 20 people.

We're hiring for a lot of roles, but mostly in software and robotics. I'm primarily focused on robotics, so if you have a strong background in robotics, reach out to me directly at (name)@9mothers.com.

https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/9-mothers

Clad (YC W23) | Software Engineer | NYC | withclad.com
Clad is software for building physical infrastructure. We help contractors automate their back office so they can scale their business.

We're a 6 person team in person in New York City, raised $2.7M, have >5 years of runway, and are growing faster than we ever have.

You'll build a well-crafted product, and work on challenging problems at intersection of AI, construction (mapping), and fintech.

Apply here: https://www.ycombinator.com/companies/clad/jobs/YHGyRSf-seni...

Or email me at jason [at] withclad [dot] com

Telescope Partners | Software Engineer | On-site US, San Francisco | Full-time

Telescope is an early stage growth VC firm with a focus on enterprise software companies. We're a small, efficient team, with a beautiful office in Presidio. We work closely with entrepreneurs and help them fill critical business functions as they grow. Our tech team is oriented at improving team efficiency: optimizing our business practices while actively replacing as much investor work and intelligence with automation as possible. If you're interested in PE and agents, this might be a good role for you!

To apply email mike at telescopepartners.com

Everflow | Software Engineer | Montreal, QC | Hybrid (Some on-site) | Full-time

Everflow is a SaaS Partner Marketing platform for managing and scaling revenue from affiliates, partnerships, and marketing channels. We're 10 years in, profitable, no outside funding

The stack : Java, Angular (Typescript), Go, MySQL, Redis. We're a GCP shop and make heavy use of Pub/Sub, BigQuery, BigTable and Kubernetes (GKE)

We're looking for software engineers and / or senior software engineers (at least 3 years) with some hands on experience to join the growing (~15 devs / SREs) team and help us build the product. We don't have a specific profile in mind but you have a track record of shipping, are interested in architecture / care about the craft and are comfortable in a no-downtime environment.

Fluency in french is a hard requirement

Email me directly at everflow-hn@everflow.io

Hellotext — Senior Full-Stack Ruby on Rails — Remote (LATAM/EU) - https://www.hellotext.com

We're building a conversational revenue system for eCommerce — think AI + automation that actually drives sales over WhatsApp/SMS, not just dashboards.

Small team, product-first, moving fast.

Stack: Ruby on Rails, JS, Postgres, real-time + messaging infra Work: automation engine (“playbooks”), AI-assisted flows, scaling data + messaging systems

Looking for strong full-stack engineers who:

- ship fast and care about product

- are comfortable owning things end-to-end

- have solid Rails experience

Apply: https://applicantai.com/hellotext/senior-full-stack-ruby-on-...

Natural | SWE (Product, Data, Design, Infra, Payments), Product Designer, GTM, more | San Francisco, CA (Onsite)

We're building payment rails for AI agents; fully-owned rails across traditional banking and stablecoins, and the full set of funds flows that AI agents need to transact in the real world with businesses, consumers, and other agents (wallets, pay, request, credit, billing, and more).

We've raised from some of the most well-known operators in fintech & payments to shape how agents interact with the economy, from scratch.

https://natural.co if you'd like to learn more - email krish@natural.co if interested!

neocom | Senior Frontend Engineer | Onsite | Munich, Germany | Full-time

We at neocom are building shop agents for online retailers. Customers can chat naturally, get clear guidance, and find the right product faster, just like talking to a great, opinionated salesperson in a physical store or like chatting with an LLM, that actually knows about the products in the shop and has an opinion about them.
We are based in Munich with a strong onsite culture (not full time).

We've been in the guided selling space for the past 6 years and launched our new product, the Shop Agent, last year in November. Our customers who are already on this new product are loving it and demand more and more features.

We are now looking for founding frontend engineers who can help our engineering team (4 people + 2 starting in September). We consider our selfs as craftsman, who care a lot about quality. A lot.
We have a classic TypeScript + React.js stack with a lot of cypress.

You can find more here: https://chief-inch-5e2.notion.site/Senior-Frontend-Engineer-...

Ping me (CTO) at ssl @ neocom.ai

Maiven | Full-Stack Engineer, Data Engineer | Colorado, REMOTE (US) | Full-Time

Maiven is hiring software engineers.
We are looking for highly skilled builders. While all roles require strong full-stack capabilities, one of these roles will lean heavily into data engineering infrastructure, and your experience should set you up to hit the ground sprinting.

The reality: we operate as an intense, early stage startup. Our 50+ hour work weeks are baseline. If you want a comfortable gig, this isn't it. If you have high agency, want massive ownership, and genuinely love the chaotic highs and lows of building from scratch, let's talk.

To apply: hiring@askmaiven.com

Kyra Health | Senior & Staff Product Engineers | Remote (USA)

We’re building a national ICHRA platform at the intersection of healthcare, fintech, compliance, and AI.

Implementation is getting cheaper. Engineering judgment is not.

If you enjoy turning ambiguous business problems into production systems, owning outcomes, and shipping quickly without creating a maintenance disaster, we’d like to talk.

Python, TypeScript, healthcare, fintech, AI.

Apply: https://engineers.kyra.health
Questions: n@kyra.health

SpaceX Starlink | Embedded Software Engineer | Onsite, Seattle WA

Hiring for my team at SpaceX! We work at the intersection of EE/SW/DSP, owning the software for characterizing and operating Ku band phased array antennas that serve as the fronthaul for the Starlink constellation.

Job description: https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/spacex/jobs/8468958002
My email: Joshua.Johnson@spacex.com

Sudowrite/H++ | Right Hand to the CEO | REMOTE (US) or Honolulu | 80-130K + equity + profit share

Hi, I'm Amit, co-founder of Sudowrite. Every other post in this thread is hiring someone to build software. I'm hiring someone to help build the company.

Our company is weird. No VCs, 30,000+ paying users, 3+ years of profitability, and the nicest coworkers you've ever worked with.

You should read the job listing even if you don't want the job b/c it is the best one here:

https://sudowrite.com/jobs/right-hand

Yuzu Health (yuzu.health, Series A) | Location: New York City (Flatiron) | ONSITE Pitch: Yuzu is not a wrapper, point solution, or integration on top of something. Our platform makes it easy for anyone to create their own health plan from scratch. That means our tech handles everything from the member/HR portals, claims adjudication, invoice automation, member support tools, to even printing and sending out ID cards. Why: We're rebuilding health insurance from the ground up. We currently serve over 1,000 employers, and we're growing extremely fast (like over 10x last year fast)!
Investors: We're well funded with investors like General Catalyst, Chemistry, Anthropic, Lachy Groom, Neo and founders from startups you know like Notion, Brex, Deel, and Mercury.

Roles: We're hiring engineers for in-person work over here at Yuzu's HQ in Chelsea, NYC. Primary need is for Fullstack/Product Engineers but we're also looking for a Data Engineer, a Backend Engineer and a Product Designer. Job board here - https://yuzu.health/careers You can check out our old office in our MTV cribs office tour (we just moved to a bigger space so need to do a new one) - https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7398820... Here's a little blog post we put out recently also: https://yuzu.health/blog/series-a

I'm Kev, the recruiting lead. Reach out to me directly if interested on kev ( at ) yuzu ( dot ) health

Category Labs | https://www.category.xyz/ | Remote and NYC | Full Time | $200K USD+

Category Labs (formerly known as Monad Labs) is a team of systems engineers and researchers on a mission to design and build at the frontier of decentralized technology. We strive to design and build step-function improvements over existing blockchain solutions. After raising $225M in series A funding, led by Paradigm, we are growing our team.

Senior Software Engineer, Compiler: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/category-labs/e5c34899-cea1-4d25-be...

Mapbox is hiring a Geospatial Data Engineer on our Boundaries team.

We use postgis, trino and iceberg to build and validate topologically accurate geodata.

We are remote-first and hire in many countries globally. Please apply!

Full job description is here: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/Mapbox/2fc1e9b6-8d13-4cb6-8271-a2f6...

I'm Paula, Technical Recruiter @ Modular - Hiring for the roles below

Remote for L5's and above
L4's and below hybrid in Los Altos or San Francisco California

https://jobs.gem.com/modular/4630409005
https://jobs.gem.com/modular/4606150005
https://jobs.gem.com/modular/am9icG9zdDpqMMq7ZRtWAbPBtyZP7Vb...

Email & apply if interested:recruiting@modular.com

CoVar | Durham, NC | https://covar.com/ | Full-time | ONSITE

CoVar is a small R&D company specializing in machine learning and software development for defense and healthcare. We're looking for a jack-of-all-trades who can: prototype computer vision algorithms, build Python web services, wrangle large sets of data from disparate classes of sensors, ... any or all, with the only hard requirement being eagerness to learn.

Visit covar.com for more information on our current openings!

Coop (https://smart.coop.farm)| 2nd Founding Engineer | iOS Heavy Engineer | Hybrid onsite | Austin, TX | Full-time, Part-time

My name is AJ Forsythe and I'm the Founder / Chief Chicken Tender at Coop! We're an Austin TX based company on a mission to build the world’s largest decentralized food production network, starting with AI powered chicken Coops. We’ve been in the market for about 18 months and our customers are in 48 states and will generate about >10M eggs this year. It's insanely fun to work on and we have a shot at building a huge business in the connected urban farming space. If you’re big into computer vision, consumer products that are fun, and an awesome team we would love to chat. The Coop has an automatic door + cameras doing computer vision work (predator detection, egg alerts, remote health monitoring, etc). It's a super exciting time and are seeing directional product market fit which I'm thrilled about. Seriously go check out our website, it's a super fun + amazing product.

We’re a tight-knit team of 5 people with 15+ years of experience working together. We’ve been through YC, started and scaled multinational million-dollar businesses together, taking them from idea to acquisition by a Fortune 50 company. We’re gritty and passionate without taking ourselves too seriously - and we’re here to build something really exciting that helps people reconnect with their food and the planet. We're VC backed (call it $5M) by some of the world's best investors but we are a scrappy small team that moves fast.
We have an absolutely fantastic CTO Ryan that I'm looking for his / our right hand person to work alongside with. I think the term full stack is overused but that's closest to what we're looking for. Also this really isn’t a traditional Eng role, I look at it as we’re a small growing team and you would be one of us working on a ton a cool projects on day 1. Also, we LOVE working with founders so if you've started a company before that's epic.

Oh also, I have a fun project where I want to make a water gun turret that uses our cameras to detect predators and allows you to aim and blast them. If you're into hacking robotics and gimbals etc, please reach out.

You can also reach out to me directly at: aj[at]coop.farm - Just email me your LinkedIn / GitHub / portfolio + why you think you'll be an awesome fit and I'll respond. Please don’t use GPT too much. This is my 3rd company (2 have exited) and I want to build the super solid core team and you might be the perfect fit for us and vice versa.
Bwok Bwok! AJ

Beautiful.ai | Full-Time | Remote in US & CAN | SaaS B2B Presentation Software | Series B | 16M Funding | AI Industry

1. Account Executive | 140k - 240k USD Base Salary + Uncapped On-Target Commission at 50/50 Split | https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/beautifulai/jobs/4955956007

2. GTM Engineer | $80,000 - $120,000 USD Base Salary | https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/beautifulai/jobs/5055492007

Railway | Infra Eng-Storage, Infra Eng-Observability, Product Design, Infra Eng-General, Product Eng (full-stack) | REMOTE (Worldwide) | https://railway.com/careers

Do you feel scared and alone when opening the AWS console? Do you wish you could just tell Claude to manage your infra, and it would just work? Do you dream of a future where software is abundant and developers and normies alike are free to build their wildest dreams?

We're Railway, and we think infrastructure can be better. We're working at the forefront distributed systems engineering, interface design, and agentic computing to bring about the infrastructure platform we've always wanted. So far we've built out a platform loved by 3M+ users and we're just getting started.

Fair warning! The problems are complex: racking and stacking servers, home-rolled hypervisors, cut-above container orchestration, over/under/whateverlay networks, virtio device drivers, edge proxies, IAM that doesn't suck, kitchen sinks - we need to build it and we're looking for likeminded individuals who think this stuff is fun.

Five open roles (apply below!):

+Senior Infra Engineer: Storage
-Apply here: (https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/Railway/25d8444a-47dc-4084-ae56-29a...)

+Product Designer:
-Apply here: (https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/Railway/6fb07755-acd8-4400-9de3-fa5...)

+Senior Infra Engineer: Observability
-Apply here: (https://railway.com/careers/platform-engineer-instrumentatio...)

+Product Engineer (full-stack): 
-Apply here: (https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/Railway/6ddcfe47-6cce-469b-ba6d-4f0...)

+Infrastructure Engineer(Platform): 
-Apply here:(https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/Railway/b8072f95-043f-404d-a313-f0b...)

Factory AI | AI, Fullstack, Frontend, Platform, Data, Product Engineers + GTM, Design, Operations | San Francisco, CA (+ NY, London for some roles) | ONSITE | Full-time | https://factory.ai

At Factory we build Droids, autonomous software development agents that review PRs, implement features, run tests, fix incidents, and handle migrations for enterprise engineering teams. Droid is model agnostic and surface agnostic, and works across your CLI, IDE, Web/Desktop app, CI/CD, Slack, and Linear. Customers include Nvidia, Adobe, Adyen, Klarna, and Ernst & Young.

We raised a $150M Series C at a $1.5B valuation, backed by Khosla Ventures, Sequoia, Blackstone, Insight Partners, NEA, and NVIDIA.

We're hiring across the stack:

- AI Engineer: agentic systems, LLM integrations, evals

- Fullstack Engineer: platform, APIs, auth, billing, terminal UIs

- Frontend Engineer: web and desktop apps (React, TypeScript, Electron)

- Platform Engineer: infrastructure, sandboxing, CI/CD, cloud

- Product Engineer: end-to-end feature ownership

- Data Engineer: pipelines, analytics, telemetry at scale

- Security Engineer / Research Engineer

Stack: TypeScript, React, Node.js/Bun, Python, GCP/AWS, Firestore, Electron.

We're also hiring in these roles: Enterprise & Mid-Market AEs, Solutions Engineers, Forward Deployed Engineers, Product Marketing, Product Manager, Product Designer, Partnerships, and Operations (RevOps, BizOps, People Ops, Recruiting). Some roles available in NYC and London.

In-office 5 days a week in SF (walking distance to Caltrain). Catered lunch and dinner, full medical/dental/vision, 401(k).

If you have strong opinions about how AI should actually work for production engineering systems at enterprise scale: we want to talk.

Apply: https://factory.ai/careers

Tandem Health | Software Engineers | On-site in Stockholm, Sweden | Full time

At Tandem Health we're building a clinician copilot to allow clinicians to focus on care rather than administration. We’re building, launching and iterating quickly, and are already rolling out across some of the largest care chains across Europe, including most of the NHS.

Our first product listens in to the patient-clinician encounter to generate medical records, allowing clinicians to save 5-10 minutes per patient. No longer do clinicians have to catch up on administration after hours.

We’re expanding our Stockholm team with exceptional builders in a wide range of roles.

More info at https://tandemhealth.ai/about/careers

This Dot Labs

Open roles:
• Engineering Leads
• Architects
• Senior Engineers

What we’re looking for:
• Strong frontend engineering experience
• 7+ years building production systems
• Engineers already using AI in real workflows
• Systems thinking and technical ownership
• Comfortable working across teams and ambiguity

Fully remote with US time zone overlap required.

jobs@thisdot.co

FUTO | https://futo.tech | Austin, TX | Remote or Onsite | Full Time

FUTO is an organization dedicated to developing, both through in-house engineering and investment, technologies that frustrate centralization and industry consolidation. Our work consists of a combination of in-house engineering projects, targeted investments, generous grants, and multi-media public education efforts. We are hiring for a few of our software projects, and our stealth hardware project.

We are hiring for:

Rust Developer - Polycentric: http://futo.tech/jobs/rust-developer-polycentric

React Native Developer - Polycentric: https://futo.tech/jobs/app-developer-polycentric

UI/UX Designer (Austin Onsite Only): https://futo.tech/jobs/ui-ux-designer-general

RISC-V CPU Architect: https://jobs.gusto.com/postings/jdwk-inc-risc-v-cpu-architec...

Design Verification Lead: https://jobs.gusto.com/postings/jdwk-inc-design-verification...

More details and job postings here: https://futo.tech/jobs

We have hired seven employees from these HN postings. We highly encourage people to mention that you came from here in your email.

To apply, send your resume and cover letter to jobs at futo dot org.

Starbridge | Senior Engineers (Kotlin/Java/React/Typescript) | NYC or Remote | Full-time |

[starbridge.ai](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://starbridge.ai&sa=D&sourc...)

Starbridge is building an AI platform that turns large-scale public and enterprise data into reliable sales insights. We are early, moving fast, and building from zero to one, so this role will have huge ownership and product impact.

Product Engineer: (React/Typescript) who would work closely with product and design to build user-facing parts of the platform. You will craft performant, stable frontends that explain technical concepts to non-technical users and help us iterate fast based on customer feedback.

AI Engineer: Applied AI plus strong software engineering. You will build, evaluate, and deploy LLM-driven features like deep document analysis and interactive chat, working with models from OpenAI, Anthropic, and Gemini. Expect hands-on Python, ML system design, experimentation, and production reliability. Bonus for RAG depth and frameworks like LangChain, LlamaIndex, or Hugging Face.

Backend Engineer: (looking for Kotlin/Java/Scala experience). You'll work across the backend: building enterprise integrations, large-scale scraping and parsing pipelines, and systems that let users apply LLMs to millions of documents to generate insights at scale.

We're looking to build our in-person team in NYC but also open to remote!

Apply: [https://starbridge.ai/careers](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://starbridge.ai/careers&s...) and mention HackerNews or email [recruiting@starbridge.ai](mailto:recruiting@starbridge.ai) with your resume.

Scribd | Software Engineers | US, Canada | ONSITE or REMOTE

https://www.scribdinc.com/ is a knowledge company on a mission to advance human understanding. We have 400M+ pieces of content, 250M+ monthly visitors, content in over 50 languages, 30M+ hours read per month, and 2M+ paying subscribers. Our products: Scribd’s knowledge platform, Slideshare’s professional presentations, Everand’s expansive library, and Fable’s social reading experience.

Learn more about our tech at https://tech.scribd.com.

We have a very friendly, collaborative, people-first, and technology-driven culture. We are ambitious but at the same time value a good work life balance.

We are hiring across the board: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/ScribdInc

A key role I'm personally hiring at the moment:

Director, Growth Engineering
I'm looking for an experienced leader to oversee an organization of ~25 engineers across three teams, directly managing a growth platform team while providing strategic and organizational leadership across the full group. This is a high-ownership leadership role for a Director who is both people-first and visionary: someone who is passionate about growth engineering and maximizing the potential of an already high-performing team.

This role requires deep technical expertise in designing and shipping growth systems. You’ll partner closely with leaders in Product, Performance Marketing, Partnerships, Data Platform, and Analytics to build reliable foundations, and to translate growth strategy into high-leverage technical capabilities.

Job description & application: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/ScribdInc/f519056e-b466-4dbf-a4f1-1...

We have hired many people from these HN threads, including myself (a very long time ago :). If you have specific questions you can reach out to me directly at adrian at scribd.com (recruiters/agencies: do not contact me).

Pascal | Founding Engineer | New York City

Pascal’s mission is to deliver AI-native systems to the offline economy, starting with the consumer packaged goods (CPG) sector. We are reinventing how they operate, building the foundational layer for decisions across finance, sales, and operations teams.

We are ex-MIT founders who have built at startups that have grown from six to nine figures in revenue. We are well-funded from investors and angels of category-defining businesses (Decagon, Cognition, etc.) and hiring our initial founding engineering team!

Apply: https://jobs.gem.com/teampascal-com/am9icG9zdDpZsQdF8LB3iyc2...

DataSF (City & County of San Francisco) | Senior Data Engineer | Hybrid (in San Francisco) | Full-time | $156k-$196k

DataSF is looking for a Senior Data Engineer to help us build out the city's central Snowflake platform, which will ultimately power the majority of SF's analytics, open data, and ML efforts. This role is a mix of data infrastructure (CI/CD, terraform), building pipelines (ADF, dbt, Python), and platform eng and admin (Snowflake). See the position description for more info.

We're looking for folks with:

- Strong SQL and Python skills

- Deep data modeling experience

- Data infrastructure and devops experience (terraform, Actions)

- dbt and Snowflake experience are a big plus

- Know their way around a terminal

Apply here: https://careers.sf.gov/role/?id=3743990013401756

Speakeasy | AI Control Plane | Product, Security and SRE Engineers | SF/London | Full-time

Hey everyone! We're staffing up our AI control plane product to meet market demand. Come join a team in San Francisco or London focused on building core infrastructure to help companies securely scale agent use. Think security engineering, observability built on clickhouse, MCP oauth and protocol work, building out our serverless backend and headless experiences. Our team cares deeply about craft and quality and has a track record building highly used developer tools. Team is around 30 and growing!

Our technical blog: https://www.speakeasy.com/blog

Open roles: https://www.speakeasy.com/careers#open-roles

or email me at sagar@speakeasy.com (ceo and co founder)

Evertune AI | Senior+ Engineers, Tech Lead, PM, Product Designer | NYC / Seattle | ONSITE/HYBRID | Full-time

Work authorization: must be authorized to work in the U.S.; we are not able to sponsor visas at this time.

Evertune builds AI-native software for enterprise marketing teams, spanning GEO (generative engine optimization) products for AI search / answer engines and AI advertising products, including new ways for brands to reach customers in AI-native surfaces. We're backed by Eniac and Felicis, and founded by people who helped scale The Trade Desk.

Roles:

* NYC only: Tech Lead Full Stack, Product Manager GEO, Product Designer

* NYC or Seattle: Senior+ Full Stack Engineer, Senior+ Backend Engineer, Senior+ Backend Infra Engineer

Offices: NYC Flatiron, Seattle U District

Comp: Eng $150k - $250k + equity; Designer up to $160k + equity; PM up to $180k + equity.

Apply: casey@evertune.ai or https://www.evertune.ai/about-us/careers

Please mention Hacker News.

Ai2 / Allen Institute for AI | Senior Software Engineer | Seattle | Onsite

We're hiring a senior software engineer for AI for the Planet at Ai2.

We build production ML systems for conservation, oceans, climate, and Earth observation. The work is very applied: satellite imagery, geospatial ML pipelines, agent systems, and products used by researchers, governments, and conservation organizations.

Looking for someone who enjoys building end-to-end systems, shipping production software, and working closely with researchers and users.

Comp: $126–189k base + bonus + benefits.

Apply: https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/thealleninstitute/jobs/7909...

Kanary | Full Stack Engineer | Remote (US) | Competitive Salary + Equity | Python / React

Kanary is a personal security platform that monitors the web to identify and reduce risk based on an individual's threat model. An executive has different exposure than a gamer, and our system classifies each person's risk across 55,000+ sources. We've been building since 2020, started in campaign security, data science, and government agencies, backed by Mozilla and Y Combinator. We have 200+ organizations on the platform and are fully funded by our customers.

Attackers have never had better tools. LLMs, social media, and search surface personal data in new ways. A few prompts can launch a deepfake and impersonation campaign. Risk sources appear and disappear across social platforms, telegram chats, and private data broker platforms. Kanary exists to play the cat and mouse game for people at the speed and scale of an agentic internet.

Kanary is a combination of software workflows (crawling, scraping, automation), AI (data classification, research, code generation), and people (analysts trained to support customers and escalate).  This is dynamic system and requires an interest in adversarial programming.

We’re growing our team, and seeking a multifaceted engineer (2+ years experience). Our software stack is python, javascript, react, and for LLMs, we use Anthropic, OpenAI, and experiment with model fine tuning as needed. Experience with web scraping, data pipelines, or security tooling is required.

Must be authorized to work in the US. We’ll evaluate submissions for two weeks.

Email steven@kanary.com with something you've built and why it was hard.

Learn more here: https://www.kanary.com/join-the-team#senior-software-enginee...

Datadog | Software Engineers | ONSITE (Boston, Lisbon, Madrid, NYC, Paris, Tel Aviv) | Full-time

Datadog is a monitoring, tracing, logs system, and more, for your infrastructure and services. We build our own tsdb, event store [1][2], distributed tracing tools, cutting edge visualizations, and more. We love shipping great experiences for customers just like us and are growing fast! We write a lot of Go, Java, Python, Typescript (with React), and a bit of other languages. We run on k8s, and are multi-region and multi-cloud.

We're looking for people who can build systems at scale as we process trillions of events per day. Let us know if that's you!

https://dtdg.co/hnwhoshiring

[1] https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/engineering/introducing-husky

[2] https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/engineering/husky-deep-dive

Atom Computing | Senior Infrastructure Engineer, Senior Software Engineer, Principal Software Engineer, Software Engineering Manager | Boulder, CO (Hybrid) | Full-time

Atom Computing is building large-scale quantum computers using arrays of optically trapped neutral atoms. Learn more at https://atom-computing.com/news-resources/

Our software team works on distributed systems, cloud infrastructure, APIs, developer tooling, orchestration, observability, automation, and high-performance computing that power both research and commercial quantum systems. Quantum computing experience is not required.

Open roles:

- Senior Infrastructure Engineer — Cloud and on-prem infrastructure, developer platforms, observability, automation, and production reliability.

- Senior Software Engineer — Build the software stack behind our quantum computers, including APIs, orchestration, automation, data systems, and developer tooling.

- Software Engineering Manager — Lead a team building the software platform for Atom's quantum systems, spanning APIs, cloud services, researcher workflows, and system architecture.

- Principal Software Engineer — Architect backend services for quantum job orchestration, distributed systems, cloud infrastructure, and production-grade APIs.

STACK: Python, Rust, C++, Terraform, Azure, distributed systems, hybrid cloud infrastructure, and HPC.

Apply: https://jobs.lever.co/atomcomputing - Please mention HN in your application.

OpenRent | London, UK | Full-Time | ONSITE+PART REMOTE | https://www.openrent.co.uk

What sucked the last time you rented a house or flat? Come and fix it.

OpenRent is force for good in an industry tarnished by rip-off agencies and one of the biggest UK websites by traffic. Enabled by an unrelenting focus on technology, we let more properties than any agency in the UK. In the last 12m we let over £50 billion worth of property, to over 8 million registered users, without ever charging any admin fees.

You'll be working on solving every aspect of the rental journey, from models to predict the right price of a property, to building the future of property management, all to help tenants find their dream home, and landlords their ideal tenant.

We're VC backed, profitable, and have plenty of ambition to maintain our fast growth in this absolutely massive market.

Roles currently available:

- Senior Full-Stack Engineer | Equity | 110k+ (based on experience) + quarterly bonus

All roles visible here: https://www.openrent.co.uk/jobs

Psiphon | iOS / Flutter Developer | Toronto (Hybrid) | Full-time

Psiphon is a VPN app used by millions of people to access the open internet in regions where it's restricted. Small team, software that matters.

We're building the next-gen client app in Flutter (iOS, Android, macOS, Windows) and need someone who can work across both iOS native and Flutter. Split is roughly 65% Flutter, 35% iOS native (Swift, StoreKit, entitlements, network extensions). You'll have mentorship from a senior iOS specialist for the deeper networking work.

Day to day: Feature development in Flutter, iOS platform integration (subscriptions, permissions, App Store), and occasionally going deep into network extensions and packet tunnel providers. Small team (~3-4 core devs), high ownership, low ceremony.

Looking for: Strong Swift experience beyond just UIKit/SwiftUI app dev, comfort with the iOS ecosystem (App Store process, provisioning, StoreKit), and willingness to context-switch between Swift and Dart in the same day. Flutter experience is a strong plus but not required if you pick up frameworks quickly.

Contact: hr@psiphon.ca

Neo.Tax | Senior Full-Stack Engineer & Senior Data Scientist/ML Engineer | REMOTE (US, Pacific hours) | Full-time | $190K–$210K + equity
Neo.Tax automates R&D tax credits and software cost capitalization for enterprises. We ingest data from project management, payroll, identity, and financial systems and use ML/LLMs to turn a process that used to take months into one that takes hours. Small team, real revenue, lots of hard problems in data extraction and pipelines at scale. Currently serving customers like Mercury, Brex, Notion, Adobe, and Capital One.

We're hiring two senior roles:

1) Senior Full-Stack Software Engineer (7+ yrs) TypeScript/Node + React on the front of the house; data ingestion pipelines processing millions of records and flexible schemas across wildly different company types on the back. You'll own projects end-to-end, scope with cross-functional partners, and ship both customer-facing and internal tooling. Bonus: GraphQL, GCP/AWS/Azure, Terraform/DevOps.

2) Senior Data Scientist + ML Engineer (6+ yrs) Own ML/AI problems from definition through production: classification, information extraction, entity resolution, ranking, anomaly detection, plus LLM systems (prompts, retrieval, tool-calling, eval). Python (NumPy/Pandas/sklearn/PyTorch), strong SQL, and real production deployment experience. Bonus: synthetic data, RAG, experience fine-tuning LLMs.

Both are senior, high-autonomy roles--you should be comfortable breaking ambiguous requirements into iterative deliverables and reading unfamiliar code. Not a fit if you want heavy mentorship or detailed specs handed to you.

Apply: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/neo-tax/

Snowflake | Forward Deployed Engineer | Menlo Park, CA | ONSITE

I’m part of Snowflake’s Applied AI / Forward Deployed Engineering team, and we’re hiring for two roles: Forward Deployed Engineer and Senior Forward Deployed Engineer.

We work directly with strategic customers to design, build, deploy, and improve production AI systems on Snowflake. That includes LLM applications, RAG and agentic workflows, evaluation frameworks, guardrails, observability, and production iteration using Snowpark, Cortex, and Snowflake’s native AI capabilities.

For the FDE role, we’re looking for strong engineers who can build and ship customer-facing AI systems end to end, especially if you’ve worked on LLM apps and care deeply about evals and quality. For the Senior role, we’re looking for someone who can lead multi-engineer AI engagements, mentor other engineers, and still be hands-on in architecture and implementation.

Both roles are customer-facing and involve travel, including at least 25% onsite time with strategic customers.

If you like working in ambiguity, building real AI systems instead of demos, and partnering closely with customers to get things into production, these roles are a good fit.

* Forward Deployed Engineer: https://careers.snowflake.com/us/en/job/SNCOUS40EA1BA0045841...

* Senior Forward Deployed Engineer: https://careers.snowflake.com/us/en/job/SNCOUSA253CD7A2E6945...

Nova Credit | Remote (US, Canada)

We're building a unified platform for credit and financial data to power financial inclusion globally. Our mission is to unlock economic opportunities for consumers historically excluded from traditional credit systems by transforming diverse data into actionable risk insights. We are YC company backed by investors from Canapi Ventures, Kleiner Perkins, General Catalyst, and Index Ventures

-> Hiring software engineers from Senior to Staff, Engineering Manager, Product, Design & Analytics roles.

-> Tech stack: Node.js, React, TypeScript, Python, PostgreSQL, AWS

You'll work on enterprise-grade APIs, data integrations, advanced analytics, and seamless user experiences. We're looking for engineers who thrive in fast-paced environments and want to make a meaningful impact on financial inclusion.

Apply at https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/novacredit and mention HN.

SwingVision is the AI tennis & pickleball app that provides automated stats, highlights, and line calling using just your phone. Our mission is to democratize the pro sports experience for all athletes.

All positions are in Berkeley, California:

- Data Labeling Intern: https://app.deel.com/job-boards/swingvision/job-details/a9a7....

- Head of Product: https://jobs.deel.com/swingvision/job-details/cb631dcb-1a80-....

- Head of Machine Learning:
https://jobs.deel.com/swingvision/job-details/c2cc0f23-3e59-....

Guild.ai | ONSITE (San Francisco) | Full-time | https://www.guild.ai/

Gulid.ai is the control plane for agents. We're building a new way of orchestrating and sharing agents that mimics some of the best parts of Github, with the centralized control and credential management that enterprise shops need.

From our about us: We are builders at heart—founders, SREs, open-source stewards, architects of large systems, and people who love creating things from scratch. We believe AI should amplify the creativity of everyone who builds software, not just speed up tasks. If you’re technical, curious, customer-driven, and want to shape how the next generation of software is created, we’d be thrilled to work with you.

We have multiple open roles, including AI Engineer, Forward Deployed Engineer, and Software Engineers.

https://www.guild.ai/careers

Nof1 | NYC (Onsite) | Full-time | Research Engineer / Full-Stack Engineer / Infrastructure Engineer

We are Nof1, an AI research lab applying AI to trading and forecasting. We recently closed a $15M funding round and are looking for senior engineers and researchers excited about building agentic systems for financial markets.

Some of the work we're doing:

* Agentic research systems (including Alpha Arena)
* Market, alternative, and real-time data pipelines
* Backtesting and simulation frameworks
* Multi-agent systems and forecasting infrastructure

We hire for capability over specific technologies. Our stack includes Python, React, Firestore, Postgres, and AWS.

We're generally looking for engineers and researchers with 5-7+ years of experience in agentic systems, large-scale data infrastructure, quantitative trading, machine learning, or consumer products.

Email: recruiting [at] thenof1.com

Odoo | Software Developer | Hybrid (Belgium, 3 days/week) | Full-time | Visa + €10k Signing Bonus | https://www.odoo.com/r/4zN

Odoo builds open-source business apps used by millions. We're hiring software developers to work on our Python/PostgreSQL backend, fast JS framework, mobile apps, website builder, and more.

Why join us:

- €10k signing bonus - Visa sponsorship + relocation support (contains flight ticket + airport taxi + 1 month free housing) - No clients, no deadlines — just clean, open-source code - Pick your team after 3 weeks of onboarding - Great team, countryside office (with chef!), flexible hours

You:

- Master a programming language - Proficiency in object-oriented programming - Strong in SQL and relational database, data structures, and DB design - Passionate, autonomous, and eager to build real stuff

Apply → https://www.odoo.com/r/4zN

Fathom – AI Notetaker (fathom.ai)

YC W'21, ~100 employees, growing extremely quickly

We’re the most installed app on HubSpot marketplace and our recent Fathom 3.0 launch was #1 on Product Hunt: https://www.producthunt.com/products/fathom

We’re hiring for both our Full Stack Engineer and AI team.

Our team values: Care Deeply, Seek Leverage, Share Ownership, Sustain Urgency, and Be Tenacious.

The engineering team works fully remotely (but synchronous), and our AI team is Hybrid (SF based). Multiple team offsites per year.

List of all of our open positions (including role descriptions for AI engineering roles and Full Stack Engineer) here: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/fathom.video

* We’re very fast at reviewing applications; yours will be seen within 48 hours of submission! Please indicate that you’re coming from Hacker News.*

Hey HN! Air Space Intelligence (https://www.airspace-intelligence.com) is hiring in Boston. We are a frontier AI and product company for the critical industries and defense backed by a16z.

We’re rebuilding America’s air traffic control system from scratch. What we do in the next two years will define how this country moves through the sky for the next fifty.

At the core is one of the largest real-time optimization problems in the world: how do you safely sequence ~40,000 flights/day while routing around weather, military airspace, equipment outages, and constant real-world churn? The system has to be right every time, and reliable at scale.

We’re hiring across Backend, Infrastructure, and Frontend (ICs and Tech Leads).

One of our roles (with a small puzzle at the bottom that routes to my email): https://www.airspace-intelligence.com/careers/role?=1336c828... - include “HackerNews” in the subject so I can prioritize.

If you want a problem that is genuinely hard, consequential, and urgent - this is the moment to reach out.

Riot IQ | Software Engineers, Product Designers, AI Native Fresh Grads | Seattle, WA | REMOTE (US) | Full time | https://riotiq.com

I'm Robert, cofounder of Riot IQ. We're building RIOT IQ, a professional online IQ testing and cognitive assessment platform for psychologists, researchers, clinicians, employers, institutions, and curious individuals.

We're US based and 100% remote. We are hiring software engineers, full stack engineers, product designers, design engineers, and AI native fresh grads.

The most interesting project is building an AI based human intelligence predictor using our in house assessment data. That means working with response patterns, timing data, item performance, scoring, validation, dashboards, model evaluation, privacy, and product UX.

You might work on a variety of things as well but all related to predicting human intelligence.

What matters most to us:

1. Strong product sense
2. Clear communication
3. High ownership
4. Taste in software, design, and user experience
5. Fast learning
6. Interest in AI, cognitive science, psychometrics, or research tools

Useful experience includes TypeScript, React, Next.js, Node, Postgres, Python, data pipelines, ML workflows, dashboards, edtech, healthcare, or research tools.

Compensation is $90k to $180k depending on role and experience, with equity for the right long term hires. Visa sponsorship is not available right now.

To apply, email robertneir@riotiq.com with your resume or LinkedIn, GitHub or portfolio, and a short note on what you would want to build at Riot IQ.

LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/robertmneir

We are actively hiring and will reply to applicants.

Aptura AI | Full-Time | MTS (Applied AI), MTS (SWE / Product) | London | ONSITE / HYBRID

We build the evaluation datasets and RL environments that make AI reliable where mistakes are expensive: finance, healthcare, and legal. We design expert-curated training data, calibrated rubrics, and RL environments for frontier AI labs and startups pushing the frontier of what models can do.

We're a small London-based team running multiple active projects, so what you ship gets used immediately by labs, startups and internal domain experts. We recently launched SpreadsheetBench v2 and work on ultra long-horizon tasks.

We're hiring:

* MTS, Applied AI — design the next benchmarks and RL environments — https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/aptura/c299e1f2-cdb4-4842-b5f3-8aa6...

* MTS, SWE / Product — build the platform behind every dataset — https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/aptura/cd6b6df2-1a75-442e-83b3-2ae0...

CHEERS.FAN #1 | Founding Infrastructure Engineers | Bay Area / Remote

CHEERS.FAN #1 is an early-stage company exploring infrastructure challenges involving real-time coordination, distributed systems, and large-scale interactive experiences.

We are seeking founding engineers in three broad areas:

1. Distributed Systems & Platform Engineering

Building reliable, scalable systems involving distributed coordination, event-driven architectures, cloud infrastructure, networking, and high-concurrency platforms.

2. Real-Time Synchronization & Timing Systems

Building systems where timing, synchronization, low-latency communication, deterministic behavior, and real-time coordination matter.

3. Embedded & Edge Infrastructure Engineering

Building infrastructure that operates close to devices, networks, and the edge, including embedded systems, firmware, networking, and performance-sensitive environments.

Experience with technologies such as Go, Rust, C++, Kafka, Kubernetes, WebRTC, networking, streaming infrastructure, distributed coordination systems, embedded systems, or related technologies is valuable.

We are particularly interested in engineers who have built large-scale, reliable systems where timing, coordination, performance, and resilience matter.

If that sounds interesting, we'd welcome a conversation.

Eastman Russell
Founder & CEO
CHEERS.FAN #1

Contact: Eastman@VBCheers.com

Caribou | Toronto| Full Time | Hybrid (one day in office) | https://www.caribou.care/
Caribou helps homecare organizations attract, engage, and retain staff through data-driven recognition, rewards, and coordination tools that make the lives of patients and their caregivers better. We're a small company of ~50 people who are mostly based in the GTA.

We are building on our core product such as deploying AI-powered agentic systems that work alongside agency coordinators to handle routine coordination, outreach, and administrative workflows to improve agency operations.

We are hiring:

Senior Software Engineer: https://caribou.breezy.hr/p/66f1f5c2f30f-senior-software-eng...

Staff Engineer: https://caribou.breezy.hr/p/e1a6bd516d2f-staff-engineer

Column (https://column.com/) | San Francisco, CA (ONSITE) | Full Time | Software Eng (Infrastructure), Software Eng (Backend), Software Eng (Product)

Column is building the infrastructure that powers the US dollar globally. We're a software first company, but also own a nationally chartered bank that we've built from the ground up. We're currently processing trillions of dollars annually (yes, that's with a T), supporting some of the largest and most sophisticated companies out there like Wise, Bilt, Brex, Ramp, Mercury and dozens of others.

Started by the founder of Plaid (plaid.com), Column is focused on keeping an extremely lean and experienced team: currently 10 engineers that all report to the CEO (many of whom we hired through HN). We are looking for an ambitious infrastructure, product, and backend engineer (one of each) that want to build incredible software from first principles.

Profitable and 100% owned by employees and founders.

Apply here: https://column.com/careers

Feel free to email me with any questions: praful@

IBM Research (https://research.ibm.com) | Boston, MA | Full-Time | Hybrid

We are hiring a Senior Scientist to join our team. We're working at the intersection of LLM training and the inference stack.

We're looking for someone who wants to work in the following intersection:

* Both implementation experience and theoretical background in compilers, programming languages, or programming models.  We have an absolutely requirement for someone with mathematical maturity in formal systems (programming language theory, type theory, proof assistants, etc.)

* practical experience pretraining and rl tuning LLMs (or skill-adjacent experience / expertise)

* practical experience developing or modifying inference engines for LLMs

From an academic perspective, think "POPL/PLDI/OOPSLA/CAV/etc." + "NeurIPS/ICML/AISTATS/etc.".

The job posting for a Senior Scientist position, with rough salary ranges, will go live soon. I'll edit or post a reply with the link when it's live. For now, if you have expertise at some intersection of the above topics, please feel free to reach out: nathan@ibm.com

Application link for Research Scientist position: https://careers.ibm.com/en_US/careers/JobDetail?jobId=118292...

We also have a Research Engineering role for which we're actively interviewing: https://careers.ibm.com/en_US/careers/JobDetail?jobId=113488...

Smarkets (https://www.smarkets.com) | Full Time | Hybrid - Onsite (London, UK)
Smarkets runs one of the world’s most sophisticated prediction markets, handling over £29 billion in volume since 2010 and engaging 200,000+ traders globally. We’re a technology company that happens to revolutionise betting - from sports to political markets, to delivering the sharpest prices and the fairest odds.

We are currently looking for:

Software Engineers - Backend, Python, Rust - https://smarkets.com/job/aaaf901f-77c0-4b35-9240-ed4cfa668ba...

Staff Engineer - https://smarkets.com/job/134306ca-60bb-478f-9b6c-4844009a908...

Engineering Team Lead/Manager - https://smarkets.com/job/59c8a1d1-25b6-4350-840c-9eb370d1433...

Senior Cloud Infrastructure Engineer - https://smarkets.com/job/7ee3a731-acc0-448f-bc61-64429e2ebf9

Senior Data Engineer - https://smarkets.com/job/1c6dd7d6-b742-43cf-aa42-772ff392108

Sheer Health (https://www.sheerhealth.com) | New York, NY | Full-Time | ONSITE

If you or a loved one has ever suffered from confusing/egregious medical bills or insurance communications, this is your chance to give the power back to others in a similar situation.

Our mission is to demystify health insurance, healthcare and medical billing. By utilizing cutting-edge technology and advanced data analytics, we deliver personalized recommendations on how to save money, maximize use of plan benefits, stay on top of reimbursements and avoid erroneous or inflated medical bills.

Currently open roles:

- Strategy & Operations Manager (https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/sheerhealth/3354321f-78f4-414a-adbe...)

- Automation Engineer (https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/sheerhealth/ccd28cff-eac8-4970-beb4...)

- Backend Engineer (https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/sheerhealth/c3b52430-2060-4fac-bcab...)

- Infrastructure Engineer (https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/sheerhealth/fa3235eb-6503-4f5e-83f1...)

Outschool | Staff Software Engineer (multiple) | Remote US or CA

At Outschool, we're reimagining education by helping millions of learners discover their passions through engaging, personalized learning experiences. Our mission is to inspire kids to love learning by connecting them with exceptional educators and enriching content from around the world.

As a remote-first company, we empower our team with flexibility, autonomy, and the opportunity to make a meaningful impact every day. You'll collaborate with talented, mission-driven colleagues who are passionate about innovation, equity in education, and creating products that truly matter for families.

Outschool is looking for a full-stack Staff Software Engineer to help develop a 0-1 new product platform with an agentic-first development approach, easing the burden for families searching for new education options.

https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/outschool/jobs/4683198006

Kadoa | Web Scraping / Software Engineer | Remote | Full-Time | https://kadoa.com

Kadoa is the web data layer for finance. We use the best coding agents to produce the most accurate web datasets, so the leading investment firms can make faster and better decisions.

All founders have spent years in the trenches writing web scraping and ETL code and still do it almost every single day. We are growing fast, have a drama-free and distraction-light environment, and try to minimize the distance between the code & data you ship and the customers who use it.

We are looking for people who share our passion for software craftsmanship, web data, and AI.

Open roles:

- Web Scraping Engineer: https://www.kadoa.com/careers/web-scraping-engineer

- Senior Software Engineer: https://www.kadoa.com/careers/senior-software-engineer

If that sounds like you, please email me at (adrian at kadoa dot com) and mention HN in the subject line.

CivTiq | Lead SWE | Toronto | $130,000 – $180,000 CAD | 
Founder-level equity |
Founder with 3x successful exits|

We are building enterprise-grade, white-label reporting infrastructure for municipal governments across North America.

Full technical decisions

Multi-tenant cloud architecture supporting Canadian data residency requirements 
Compliance framework buildout: SOC 2, PIPEDA, MFIPPA, security standards relevant to Canadian municipal procurement

Technical hiring as team  grows

5+ years in cloud infrastructure or backend engineering with direct exposure to multi-tenant architecture, data residency, and uptime SLA commitments

Shipped production systems where a bug has legal or compliance consequences

Hands-on with SOC 2, ISO 27001, HIPAA, PIPEDA, or equivalent regulated environments

Can review and challenge AI-generated code and architectural decisions. Not threatened by AI tooling, not blindly trusting it

Can represent the technical platform for government IT evaluators

Comfortable inheriting existing TypeScript / Node.js / PostgreSQL codebase

Located in Toronto or willing to relocate

ben [at] civtiq [dot] com

Fastly | Software Engineers (Senior, Staff, Principal) | REMOTE (US, UK, EU) or ONSITE | Full-time

When you look at the headers of major websites, you’ll see us. If it has to be performant, secure, scaled worldwide, and always-on, it uses Fastly.

We're a globally edge cloud platform for performance and security, emphasizing open standards, sustainable engineering, and resilience-by-design.

We're hiring across compute, security, platform engineering, network and edge protocols, release engineering, network architecture, client services engineering, and more.

Rather than building walled gardens, we co-founded the Bytecode Alliance, heavily upstream our work to open standards, actively author IETF drafts, and power the global infrastructure for open-source Python, Rust, Ruby, OpenStreetMap, and much more.

The Stack: Rust, C/C++, Go, Javascript, Typescript, WebAssembly (Wasm/WASI), Wasmtime, Cranelift, eBPF/XDP, QUIC, HTTP, TLS, TCP, Varnish/VCL, Linux kernel internals, distributed systems, professional services.

Apply: https://www.fastly.com/about/careers

Back by Sequoia Capital, Peregrine is the operational AI platform powering decision making and operations SF / NYC / DC | In-office 4 days | $175,000 - $300,000

[Leadership] Engineering Manager, Platform (SF, NYC) https://grnh.se/gwrtizx95us

Staff SWE, Product Security (SF / NYC) https://grnh.se/b2kbmt3j5us

Staff SWE, AI (SF) https://grnh.se/cq0caps45us

Sr SWE (SF, NYC, DC) https://grnh.se/gwf63pot5us

Sr SWE, Data Governance (SF) https://grnh.se/ue4zfbjo5us

Sr SWE, Data Infrastructure (SF, NYC, DC) https://grnh.se/bq138yn05us

Sr Product Designer (SF / NYC) https://grnh.se/s96svypy5us

Sr Design Engineer (SF) https://grnh.se/z8ev1cgu5us

Modal | Software Engineers (Product, System, SDK) | SF, NYC (ONSITE) | Full Time | modal.com

Modal builds the serverless cloud used by many of the most popular AI companies you've heard of. People use Modal for inference, training, batch operations and also, sandboxes. A good example is the Ramp Inspect tool, that was built on Modal sandboxes. https://engineering.ramp.com/post/why-we-built-our-backgroun... — We also recently passed over a billion sandboxes created and on our way to 2B soon.

I am one of the hiring managers here, hiring for the Product Engineering team that builds the observability tooling for our developers. Modal is the cloud for many of our customers and we help them reason about what's happening in their systems, help them expand their use and generally have a good experience.

If you are interested in a product engineering role, please feel free to reach out directly via email at can@modal.com with a recent resume. This role is NYC or SF based and is on-site, so please mention your current location to be considered. I am especially looking for folks with deep ClickHouse, Postgres, Redis, and Python experience.

Please mention how you have used Modal or similar tools in the past and link to a recent resume. Resumes and emails that are clearly human-written will go to the front of the line. I wrote this by hand, so can you. Or can you?

Product Engineering Role: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/modal/a4b8b2b6-5d0c-4ba6-9256-b84be...

For all other roles, please apply from our website.

All roles: https://modal.jobs

Piq Energy | Full Stack Software Engineer | SF, Athens, or US REMOTE | Full-time | $150k-$250k + equity (SF; location-adjusted)

https://jobs.gem.com/piqenergy/am9icG9zdDqgTj8NyVDwal1rIjQFn... for remote US, https://jobs.gem.com/piqenergy/am9icG9zdDqkYrMOHiz76MhEvW9nt... for San Francisco

Piq Energy builds software that helps renewable and large-load developers get projects connected to the electric grid faster. We automate grid interconnection studies and planning workflows.

You’ll own features end-to-end: interactive frontend, backend APIs, data pipelines, AI agents, and power systems simulation workflows. We’re looking for experienced generalists who like ownership, real-world impact, and scaling startups.

Stack: Typescript, Svelte, GraphQL, Mapbox, D3.js, Python, LLM agents, Postgres, workflow orchestration

CLEAR | Senior Software Engineers (Fullstack & Backend), Data Engineers, Staff/Lead iOS Engineers, Engineering Managers & Directors, Senior Product Managers | NYC Onsite (4-5 days in-office w/ free catered lunch daily) | https://www.clearme.com/

CLEAR is building the secure identity company of the future. Our mission is to make experiences safer and easier—physically and digitally. With more than 38 million Members and a growing network of partners across the world, CLEAR's secure identity platform is transforming the way people live, work, and travel. Whether it’s at the airport, stadium, or throughout your everyday life, CLEAR unlocks the magic of frictionless experiences.

If interested, apply here --> https://grnh.se/e4e5dc881us

Reddit (YC 1) | reddit.com | Staff MLE | Full-Time | Remote (US) (ideally east coast) | $230K - $322K base + equity

We are looking for a staff MLE to join the Ads Content Understanding team. This team looks at all of the reddit content in order to understand what people are talking about. We own the knowledge graph for the entire company, and we also produce a number of interpretable signals that are then used either for RAG type products or as features for models. This is a horizontal/platform team, all of our customers are internal, and most of them are within the ads space, but we're doing some interesting things with organic shopping experiences on reddit.

There's a lot of upside to this role, we're still nascent on our 'commercial intent' understanding (think - is this post comparing tokyo vs kyoto, or is this post at a later stage in the trip planning journey, it is comparing hotels in kyoto).

The job posting does a solid job of describing the responsibilities and expectations for this role. It's a mix of modeling, engineering, leadership. Please apply if you think there's a good fit, the ideal candidate has both leadership experience as well as domain experience with content understanding.

Team is roughly split into two pods, knowledge graph (mostly EU eng) and signals (mostly US eng). This would be a TL role for the signals pod, so east coast timezone would have the most overlap with our team and partner teams.

We also have an open Senior MLE headcount for this signals pod, and are expecting more headcount in Q3.

Apply here: https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/reddit/jobs/7851761

Paymail | Engineer | REMOTE | Startup Equity Only

Paymail is an invoicing and money transferring service over email. Because it's alot easier to send $50 to email@example.org than to send it to a long series of digits representing a branch and account number. In a way Paymail is an internet native payments competitor to x402.org.  I'm the founder and I'm on a mission to make every bank your email provider. I spent the last year working for a banking outsourcing company and it gave me some good insights into what's possible in the FinTech world. I'm currently searching for a React+Typescript developer with good design instincts to give a huge chunk of equity to and become a cofounder of the company working with a well written medium sized React+Typescript codebase that represents our product.

Startups are busy but to get the product to an MVP stage is not very far away at all so it would suit someone looking for a potentially profitable side hustle or on a full time basis as well.

Stack: Stalwart, React, Typescript, Python, Rust, Postgres

Email me: eric at gregarious.com.au

Guac (YC S23) | guac.com | Backend/Fullstack Engineer | Full-time | NYC | $150k-$250k base + equity

At Guac, we’re building the first agentic AI platform for grocery. Today, we work with enterprise supermarket chains to forecast demand and help them optimize their inventory operations.

We’ve scaled to 7 figures ARR, and we’ve raised $7.2M from YC, Collab Fund, 1984. We're looking for talented engineers in NYC to join our mission: to solve grocery food waste and tackle food insecurity with technology.

Key technologies: Python, FastAPI, Dagster, Dagster, Dask, React, Next.js, TypeScript

More details/application:

Backend: https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/4414605553/
Fullstack: https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/4414608482/ 
Or email us directly: jack@guac-ai.com

Treasure AI | Staff Engineers (Fullstack/Backend) | HYBRID (Tokyo & Vancouver) | Full Time | https://www.treasure.ai/

You may know us from our open-source roots (Fluentd/Embulk.) We’re an enterprise CDP and agentic experience platform that unifies fragmented customer data from multiple sources and allows for complex marketing workflows. Our engineering team is distributed across Canada, Japan, and the USA.

We need three Staff Engineers (two in Tokyo, one in Vancouver) to act as technical anchors. You’ll be a great fit if you’re a backend/distributed systems engineer who can architect a clean React frontend, or a pure distributed systems specialist happy to collaborate across the full stack.

The roles primarily deal with architecting systems to process and personalize massive marketing datasets in near real time, with a strong emphasis on being able to work cross functionally to deliver best-in-class agentic interactions deeply integrated with our systems.

Our core stack is Rails, Typescript/Lambda, React, and Kotlin.

How to apply:

* Staff Fullstack (Tokyo) https://jobs.treasure.ai/jobs/542524-staff-fullstack-enginee...

* Staff Fullstack (Vancouver) https://jobs.treasure.ai/jobs/615459-staff-fullstack-enginee...

* More roles on our careers page (we are massively hiring): https://jobs.treasure.ai/

WeatherArb | Full-stack indie developer | REMOTE

Building WeatherArb (weatherarb.com) — real-time weather anomaly 
intelligence for 18,222 cities using NASA POWER Z-Score baseline.

Stack: FastAPI, Next.js, TypeScript, Python, Cloudflare Workers, 
HuggingFace Spaces, Supabase, Blockchain (Supra/Move, Polygon).

Open to: API integrations, data engineering contracts, 
climate/energy tech roles. REMOTE only.

contact: kaicarsaad455@gmail.com

Cora AI | Founding Full Stack / Applied AI Engineer | REMOTE (US ONLY, LA/SF preferred) | Full-time | $190–250k + early equity

We build customer success agents and account intelligence that do the actual manual work — so CS teams can focus on the relationship-driven work that drives growth.

You'll be one of the first engineers. You'll ship voice agents, multi-agent orchestration, RAG pipelines, evals, and account intelligence features that touch real customers on day one.

What we're looking for:

- You build with AI IDEs (Cursor, Claude Code) as a force multiplier — not occasionally, as your default

- You've shipped something with LLMs in production (agents, RAG, evals — not just wrappers)

- Comfortable owning a feature from idea to production without a lot of hand-holding

- Based in the US — SF Bay Area or LA strongly preferred

Why Cora:

- Work on cutting-edge applied AI: voice agents, knowledge graphs, multi-agent systems, evals, simulations, and more

- Real users, real impact, high autonomy

- Fast, fair interview loop — no BS

- Fully covered healthcare for you and your dependents

- 401(k) plan

- Flexible time off

Learn more: https://www.cora.ai/

Interested? Email careers [at] cora.ai — these go straight to me, and I read every one.

Kiloforge | Founding Engineer | Early-Stage | Full-time | San Francisco | Onsite

- Product: Kiloforge is a company factory: a system that autonomously ideates, validates, builds, and distributes software products.

- Why: Before AI, countless niche communities and problems had no way of being served with first-class, high-quality software. As software trends towards zero cost, solving these problems is now economically feasible.

- $5M+ Funding: a16z, Uncork Capital, Rahul Vohra

==Who You Are==

- You're a scrappy, generalist builder with strong product taste and a founder's mindset

- You thrive in chaos, love learning everything, and have built things real people use

==Team==

- Founded companies before, including one that scaled to $20M ARR

- Built dozens of products with thousands of users

- Shipped patented technology and features used by billions of people

==Interview==

Meet with founder [15 mins] >> In-person [1 hr] >> Onsite w/team [half-to-full day]

==Contact==

hello@kiloforge.com

More info: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/kiloforge/b5ebae38-a1de-4a26-bac0-e...

Skydio | Robotics / Drones / Cloud / Web engineers | San Mateo CA, Zurich CH, or Hybrid | https://www.skydio.com/careers

Skydio is the leading U.S. drone company and world leader in autonomous flight. Our drones are used for inspecting the energy grid, de-escalating life and death scenarios in public safety, inspecting bridges, giving soldiers better situational awareness on the battlefield, search and rescue missions, and more. We serve the core industries that our civilization runs on and have life-saving impact.

If you’re interested in being a core member of a 250+ person world-class engineering and research team that is defining the future of a major emerging industry,

We’re looking for a diverse combination of engineers, researchers, and managers with strong SW skills and experience across complex products. We’re particularly interested in people with robotics, web, deep learning, game dev, streaming or cloud experience.

I am a Senior Director of Engineering there and a YC S18 alumni, we're looking at all applications from the careers page. https://www.skydio.com/careers#job-listing

ParadeDB (YC S23, https://paradedb.com) | Database Internals Engineers, Distributed Systems Engineers | Remote or hybrid in San Francisco | Full-time

ParadeDB is a Postgres extension that delivers state-of-the-art search in Postgres. Our customers, including Alibaba Cloud, BILT Rewards, Modern Treasury (YC S18), and many others, rely on us to deliver the performance and feature set of dedicated vector databases/Elasticsearch natively in Postgres, simplifying their stack and day-to-day operations.

If you like systems, this might be for you. We're a team of 10, a Series A company based in SF but distributed across North America. We're hiring for database internals work (e.g., building the database in Rust) and distributed systems work (e.g., building the database-as-a-service platform in Go).

We're open-source at https://github.com/paradedb/paradedb.

Our technical blog: https://www.paradedb.com/blog

More info on roles: https://paradedb.notion.site/

Bucket Robotics (YC S24) | Senior Fullstack Engineer | San Francisco, CA (On-site)

Bucket Robotics turns CAD files into production-ready computer vision models that detect defects instantly with zero manual labeling and no multi-month pilots. We are automation-first, replacing slow legacy processes with instant AI inspection.

As an early full-stack hire, you will own a massive surface area. You’ll be responsible for building our customer-facing application, scaling our internal tooling, and designing the data pipelines that move CAD and vision data at scale.

This isn't just a "CRUD app" role. You’ll work closely with our core tech and have the opportunity to become a domain expert in radiometry, machine learning, and computer graphics.

What We’re Looking For
Product-Minded Engineer: You care deeply about user experience and can independently take a feature from concept to production.

Systems Thinker: Comfortable moving up and down the stack, from sleek frontend UIs to heavy data pipelines.

Curious & Adaptive: You don’t need a background in graphics or ML, but you are excited to dive deep into the math and physics behind our core tech.

On-site: Joining our team in San Francisco.

If this sounds interesting, send me an email ben@bucket.bot

Longshot Systems | Multiple Senior Eng | London, UK, hybrid | Full time

Longshot is at the cutting edge of sports betting modelling R&D and has been producing market beating models for over a decade.

We need senior engineers across platform and strategy in various roles. Excellent pay and benefits, flexible hybrid working, office in central London.

Very high performance environment with high trust. Team small but growing. Sports knowledge optional, passion and deep technical experience mandatory. Come and join the fun in the new world of sports betting markets.

Please check out our recruitment link here: https://apply.workable.com/longshot-systems-ltd/

Exeon | Remote (Switzerland and Germany) | Senior scala developer

We're Exeon - a Swiss cybersecurity company out of Zürich that uses AI/ML to detect sophisticated network attacks that conventional tools miss. Think NDR (Network Detection & Response), but actually smart.

What you'd actually be doing:

- Owning architectural decisions for new features and legacy refactors

- Mentoring backend teammates (we're growing)

- Contributing to both the backend and the GUI layer

- Working closely with a genuinely international team

What we're looking for:

- 8+ years of software engineering experience

- Strong Scala skills with a taste for architectural thinking

- You know when to refactor and when to ship

- Comfortable with tests (unit + integration) as part of normal coding, not an afterthought

- Fluent English; German is a bonus

Apply here https://exeon.recruitee.com/o/senior-backend-developer-scala...

Edit: formatting

JustPark | Lead Engineers | London (Hybrid) & Dallas (Hybrid) | Full-time

JustPark is a parking platform serving millions of drivers and operators across the UK and US. We're hiring two lead engineers.

Lead Full Stack Engineer – London, UK
React/TypeScript + PHP/Laravel/Go. Lead engineers across our consumer platform, contribute to architecture, and help us scale internationally. 5+ years across the full stack. We welcome applications from seniors wanting to step into a lead role.
Apply: https://apply.workable.com/justpark/j/6016D774E3/

Lead Engineer, Oobeo Platform – Dallas, TX
Player-coach role: Django/Python, React, React Native, AWS + GCP. You'll own the codebase and manage the team. Strong AI-paired development culture — we're daily Claude Code users and want someone who'll bring the team along. 8+ years backend experience.
Apply: https://apply.workable.com/justpark/j/48D1D405D8/

If you're applying from HackerNews, please mention it in your application!

Chestnut | Senior Product Engineer | SF or Seattle (Hybrid) | https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/Chestnut

I'm Nick, CTO & co-founder. We're Rippling, but for insurance carriers paying their sales force. Every policy sold triggers a chain of payouts across brokers, agents, and sub-agents. Today that runs on spreadsheets and legacy vendor systems and tomorrow they'll run on Chestnut. Nationwide and other major carriers have already made the switch.

Revenue is up 8x in the last year. We're backed by a16z. Founding team came out of leadership at Ethos (insuretech that recently IPO'd in January).

The work is state-heavy and correctness-critical: payouts that must reconcile with finance to the cent, dynamic agent hierarchies, retries, chargebacks, partial failures. These systems move real money and cannot drift.

You'll design schemas, build backend logic, ship UI, deploy, and own the sharp edges that show up with real enterprise customers.

Stack: Go, TypeScript/React, Postgres, Temporal, Kubernetes, AWS. We use AI aggressively and expect you to as well.

We're looking for 3–6 years on real product systems. You're thoughtful about invariants and failure modes.

Apply: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/Chestnut

Email me: nick at chestnutfi.com

Borrowell | Development Roles | Remote across Canada with office in Toronto | Full Time, Permanent, Benefits from Day 1

https://apply.workable.com/j/E01BFED460

Borrowell pioneered free credit scores for all Canadians in 2017 and now we’re focusing on building net new products that will be the first of their kind in Canada. With more than 4 million members, Borrowell is one of the largest fintech companies in Canada.

Our team is diverse, inclusive, and driven by a shared passion for making a meaningful difference in the lives of Canadians. We pride ourselves on fostering a culture of collaboration, humility, and innovation. If you’re looking to join a company that’s transforming the financial landscape and empowering Canadians to achieve their financial aspirations, we invite you to explore career opportunities at Borrowell. Together, we can help Canadians feel confident about money.

https://borrowell.com/careers

TypeSafe AI | Software Engineer | ONSITE (San Francisco) | Full-time

TypeSafe AI (https://typesafe.ai/) is a well-funded stealth mode company making a new class of AI models which enable a reliable way to embed composable intelligence into traditional software, founded by a co-author of ChatGPT/RLHF/GPT4 (answering the questions "If AI is so smart, why are we barely automating any work? Why does today's AI always need a human-in-the-loop?").

We're especially looking for people to join our Synthetic Data research team - no previous data experience needed (synthetic or otherwise). We need strong engineers who care deeply about the end use cases and whose instincts are to NOT trust LLMs blindly and look at the reality of their generations (much more investigator in the spectrum of investigator vs optimizer).

Short 5 min video (of me) describing the company: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LE3bGTaAgOE

See open roles here: https://typesafe.ai/careers#opportunities

Tenera | San Francisco, CA | Onsite | Founding Engineer (Full-Time)

Tenera (https://trytenera.ai) is building the product decision layer for agents and humans, backed by a top tier VC (announcing soon). We help teams validate what they build across the entire software development lifecycle, grounding AI personas in real user behavior and business context, then proving them out by replaying past product decisions.

We are a small, exceptionally talented team (ex-Amazon, Nvidia, Uber, Stanford, CMU) hiring our first engineer. We work onsite in SF five days a week (open to relocation for the right person) and offer meaningful founding equity.

This is an unconventional role. We want an "agent-native" engineer. If you are still writing every function by hand, this isn't for you. You will orchestrate multiple coding agents in parallel, managing worktrees, concurrency, and shared context, while owning the architecture decisions that matter most: big data pipelines, schema design, system tradeoffs, and evals.

Requirements: 3+ years shipping full-stack apps, comfortable with LLM infrastructure and tracing, fluent with git worktrees and isolated workspaces, and strong product taste. Active GitHub contributors preferred.

Interested? Email: suzie@trytenera.ai

Enveritas (YC S18, non-profit) | Backend Software Engineer | Remote (Global) | https://enveritas.org/jobs/
Enveritas is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit working on sustainability issues facing smallholder coffee farmers. We collect field data in 25+ countries and build systems for analyzing risks in coffee supply chains (including EUDR-related deforestation checks).

* Backend Software Engineer (Python, PostgreSQL/PostGIS, Docker, AWS, Terraform) - $135-$155k — https://enveritas.org/jobs/backend-software-eng/#10d7adef8us (worldwide remote)

August Health (https://augusthealth.com/) | Remote (USA only) | Full Time | Multiple Engineering Roles (Infrastructure, Product, Applied AI)

We're building an operating platform for senior care (assisted living, memory care) in the US & Canada. We aim to be the system of record for everything from medications to billing for our customers.

Check out the jobs page on our website, or email sid@ with (HN) in your subject line.

Puma.tech | Remote-first with PST overlap | iOS/MacOS, Android, Ai/ML, Growth | https://puma.tech

Hi all, I’m Yuriy, founder of Puma.tech. Prev. worked at Cloudant (YC S08), Meteor (YC S11), Parse (YC S11, Facebook/Meta), and explored AI/ML (computer vision for self-driving cars).

We have 2 products:

1. https://PumaBrowser.com: iOS & Android mobile browser with built in LLMs & wallets – private local alternative to ChatGPT. 1m+ downloads.

2. https://PumaAI.com: small research lab focused on privacy and reliability of AI based on our experience building Puma Browser.

Open Roles: Eng (iOS/MacOS, Android, Ai/ML, Browser Extensions), Based Social Media Intern; Internships: Eng, Design, Growth

We’ve raised a few rounds from some of the best builders in ai and crypto:

Protocol Labs (YC S14), Chris Larsen (Ripple), Anatoly Yakovenko (Solana), Illia Polosukhin (NEAR Protocol), Sridhar Ramaswamy (Snowflake CEO), Jason Warner (poolside.ai, ex-GitHub CTO), Don Ho (Orange DAO, Quantstamp W18), Evil Rabbit (Vercel), John Phamous (SF Compute) and other amazing builders.

How to Apply: email careers+hn [at] puma.tech with your GitHub, a note on what you're most proud of building and what you'd like to build next.

Thank you!

Frisson Labs | Founding ML Engineer - General, Founding ML Engineer - Audio/Speech | San Francisco, CA ONSITE | Full-time | https://www.frisson-labs.com

Frisson Labs is building AI players that play like Discord friends. The hard part is making them respond with low latency, persistent personality, voice timing, and actual game competence: understanding what is happening, deciding what to do, and executing in real time.

Open roles:

- Founding ML Engineer - General: own the full stack for how AI companions play games: game-state understanding, learned policies/controllers, world models, action representation, MLP/policy heads, memory, evals, data pipelines, inference, and product iteration. Strong fit if you have shipped applied ML systems and want to own messy model behavior all the way from research prototype to live gameplay.

- Founding ML Engineer - Audio/Speech: explore and ship low-latency speech systems for real-time play: duplex/streaming voice models, speech understanding, turn-taking, interruption handling, latency/quality tradeoffs, prosody/emotion, and conversational evals. Strong fit if you have deep audio/speech ML experience and care about making voice feel socially present during gameplay.

Comp:
- ML Engineer roles: $150K-$200K + 1.0-2.0% equity

Apply: email founders@frisson-labs.com with the role in the subject, plus your resume/GitHub/research/portfolio and a short note on why AI companions + gaming interests you.

Charge Robotics | Multiple Roles | Full-time | Onsite | SF Bay Area

Hi HN! We’re a YC-backed, Series-A startup building robots that build large-scale solar farms.

Check out a video of our first system here! https://youtu.be/ZZ2fP1Y5Z2E

It turns out that construction companies literally can't build solar fast enough, so what we're doing is a crucial part of switching the grid over to renewable generation.

You’ll be a key contributor, helping bring our next generation of mobile solar factory to life.

Come work with us if you love:

* Fast-paced prototype development with software and hardware components

* Making a positive climate impact through your work

* Hacking on massive construction equipment!

Senior Robotics Software Engineer: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/charge-robotics/b2aa347c-4738-4065-...

Senior Mechanical Engineer: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/charge-robotics/19133a2e-f262-4f3d-...

Lots more: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/charge-robotics

Makeship | Senior Software Engineer + Staff Engineer (Systems & Integrations) | Toronto, Canada | REMOTE (Canada only)

Makeship empowers influencers, creators, and brands of all sizes to develop and launch limited-edition products that matter to their fans. We handle the design, manufacturing, and fulfillment (plushies, apparel, and more). Check out our site (https://www.makeship.com/) to see some of the anime and gaming merch. We're profitable, did $65M+ CAD in sales last year, and have been Great Place to Work certified three years running.

Two open roles:
Senior Software Engineer, full-stack (React/Next.js + Go) on the core platform. You'll lead projects, own complex features end to end, make architectural calls, and mentor other engineers. https://makeship.bamboohr.com/careers/76

Staff Engineer, Systems & Integrations, owning our internal systems and the integrations layer connecting Shopify, HubSpot, Airtable, and others. You'll own the roadmap and work directly with ops, sales, and marketing to make their workflows dramatically more efficient. https://makeship.bamboohr.com/careers/78

If you apply, please note that you found us through Hacker News.

Lantern | Software Engineers (Python, Full-Stack) | NYC (Onsite) | Full-time | withlantern.com

Lantern is building AI-powered revenue intelligence—autonomous agents that turn cold outreach into warm conversations. We detect buying signals across your tech stack, prioritize opportunities, and help B2B sales teams focus on deals that actually close. We're early, agentic-first, and moving fast.

Senior Software Engineer: You'll own complex technical problems end-to-end—translating customer needs into scalable architecture, optimizing AI model efficiency through prompt engineering, and shipping features that directly impact how revenue teams operate. We want bold ideas and people who push boundaries.

Junior Software Engineer: You'll work across our stack (Python, FastAPI, Next.js, React) alongside senior engineers, contributing to real features from day one. Great fit if you're hungry to learn, ship fast, and grow with a startup building cutting-edge agentic systems.

New Grad Software Engineer: Entry point for recent grads excited about AI and agentic systems.

You'll get hands-on experience with our modern data stack (Postgres, ElasticSearch, ClickHouse, DuckDB), Kubernetes/AWS deployment, and Temporal.io, pi.dev, context engineering,  workflow orchestration while shipping production code.

This role is based in our Manhattan office (4 days/week in-person). Full health and dental coverage.

Apply: https://forms.gle/kEi5MDDiaJKdyN3fA or email maksym at withlantern.com with your resume.

Govra | Senior/Staff Full Stack Engineer | Hybrid (SF Bay Area) | Full-time

Govra builds the operating system modern governments run on. We turn dense statutes and tangled rules into executable workflows, embedding intelligence directly into the work so agencies make faster, more accurate and more consistent decisions at scale. We're starting with tax, one of the highest volumes in government, where better decisions mean more revenue, better public services and improved trust between citizens and the state. The result: government that works at the speed of the people it serves.

We are seeking a Senior or Staff Software Engineer to help build and scale Govra’s intelligent operating system for governments. You will work closely with the founders, customers and product design teams to ship vital real systems in a fast-moving, high-impact environment. This role is ideal for someone who can go deep technically, think from first principles about product and UX, and move quickly from customer workflows to production code.

Apply here: https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/4420201620/

Inferra | Founding SRE + Bare-Metal Infra Engineers | San Francisco / REMOTE | Full-time

We're looking for cracked, optimistic engineers/students with good systems taste. We're a team of ~10 in SF, building a GPU neocloud.

The work spans SRE, bare-metal automation, datacenter bring-up, GPU clusters, storage, networking, security, IaC, and Kubernetes-as-a-service. Prior DC, neocloud, and cloud-provider experience is very relevant.

Email sasan at inferra.ai with anything relevant.

Veedma | Founding Product Engineer + Founding Growth Engineer | Remote (US) | Full-time | $150-200k + 1.0-1.25% equity | https://app.dover.com/jobs/veedma

Veedma is a telehealth practice for men's hormonal and sexual health. We treat low testosterone, ED, and vitamin D deficiency in men 18 and up, fully online. Cash-pay subscription covers consultations, lab panels twice yearly, prescribed medications, and unlimited messaging. Clinically Enclomiphene-only; we don't offer testosterone replacement therapy.

Founder-led: an MD urologist (CEO) and a software CTO (ex-Yva.ai, acquired by Visier). The platform is AI-native by default: both founders code in Claude Code every day, production calls OpenAI's API from Python, Akute is the EHR, Stripe handles billing.

Two founding seats, both reporting to the founders directly:

* Founding Product Engineer ($160-200k + equity). Python/Flask/Postgres/Celery. Own patient flows, EHR and billing integrations, internal clinical tooling, and the in-product LLM layer. 7+ years shipping production web apps, most of them in healthcare.
  Apply: https://app.dover.com/apply/Veedma/8f5e6d01-75f1-46a8-b5b7-9...

* Founding Growth Engineer ($150-190k + equity). A builder who happens to do growth. No paid budget, no agency. You ship landing pages, scrapers, creator outreach pipelines, referral loops. 7+ years in organic / partnerships growth, most of them in healthcare.
  Apply: https://app.dover.com/apply/Veedma/d39d76d3-e968-407c-b268-0...

Bar for both: Claude Code is your primary tool (6+ months daily, you write skills and wire up MCP servers). Healthcare in your background and where you want to stay. AI-native, not AI-curious.

Both: remote US, async-first with US-hours overlap, full-time, 1.0-1.25% equity. All roles: https://app.dover.com/jobs/veedma

Obsidian Security | Staff Software Engineer | REMOTE (US) | Full-time | $176k-$196k + equity + 401k | https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/obsidiansecurity/jobs/51527...

We secure the SaaS apps companies actually run on: M365, Salesforce, and hundreds more. You’d be on the Threat product team working full-stack. That means browser extension code (content/background scripts, manifest v3, message passing), backend services chewing through millions of events, and the data pipelines feeding our detection engine. One day you’re in TypeScript debugging why a content script won’t capture form submissions on some vendor’s weird SPA. The next you’re in Python fixing a Kafka consumer that’s falling behind. Sometimes you’re in Rust optimizing a hot path in the telemetry collector.

Big current focus is shadow AI, i.e. catching when employees paste sensitive data into ChatGPT, Claude, or whatever LLM showed up this week. You’d build the systems that detect it.

Looking for ~8+ yrs experience, real browser knowledge (DOM, event loop, SPA routing, CORS, not just “I used React”), prior browser extension work, strong TypeScript, comfortable in Python, willing to write Rust, plus data-at-scale chops (event streaming, Postgres, Elasticsearch, Kafka). Bonus: AI security (prompt injection, exfiltration), detection engineering/SIEM, or security tooling.

Apply via the link above, or see all our open roles at https://www.obsidiansecurity.com/careers

Spacelift | Remote (Europe) | Full-time | Senior Software Engineer | $80k-$110k+ (can go higher)

We're a VC-funded startup (recently raised $51M Series C) building an infrastructure orchestrator and collaborative management platform for Infrastructure-as-Code – from OpenTofu, Terraform, Terragrunt, CloudFormation, Pulumi, Kubernetes, to Ansible.

On the backend we're using 100% Go with AWS primitives. We're looking for backend developers who like doing DevOps'y stuff sometimes (because in a way it's the spirit of our company), or have experience with the cloud native ecosystem. Ideally you'd have experience working with an IaC tool, i.e. Terraform, Pulumi, Ansible, CloudFormation, Kubernetes, or SaltStack.

Overall we have a deeply technical product, trying to build something customers love to use, and have a lot of happy and satisfied customers. We promise interesting work, the ability to open source parts of the project which don't give us a business advantage, as well as healthy working hours.

If that sounds like fun to you, please apply at https://careers.spacelift.io/jobs/3006934-software-engineer-...

You can find out more about the product we're building at https://spacelift.io and also see our engineering blog for a few technical blog posts of ours: https://spacelift.io/blog/engineering

TrashLab | Product, Eng | Full-time SF Hybrid

We are building the agentic operating system for waste collection and processing companies across the US.

Join our team as a product manager or product engineer and own products end-to-end, working alongside a fully AI native team.

Apply at our careers page or email john@trashlab.io with a resume and the most impactful codex/claude code skill you've developed or used.

https://trashlab.com/careers

Speckle | Head of Delivery | London (hybrid; UK-based) | Full-time | £120–140k base + variable (OTE ~£160k) + meaningful equity

Speckle is the open-source platform that makes 3D/AEC design data accessible, trustworthy, and queryable across every tool in the stack - Revit, Rhino, IFC, ACC and more. We've just launched Speckle Intelligence: ask your project models anything, trust the answer, and generate client-ready deliverables in minutes. 23 people, open-source core, enterprise tier on top, post-Series A. Repo: github.com/specklesystems

We're hiring our first Head of Delivery to own the enterprise post-sale motion: turning pilots with general contractors, owners, and large service providers into expanded production deployments. Forward-deployed role (think Palantir FDE, not SaaS customer success) - you sit inside the customer's real decision problem, make "trust the answer, take the action" true on their actual data, and feed what you learn back into product. We measure impact and not closed ticket counts.

Good fit if you've delivered technical/data products into heavy industry (AEC, construction tech, infra, or similar) and can read an enterprise's problem without a spec. AEC background a strong plus, not required. Comfortable with messy data and ambiguous orgs.

Apply: d@speckle.systems

Beatdapp | Machine Learning (ML) Engineer | Vancouver, Canada | ONSITE (Hybrid) | Full-time

Beatdapp is a ~50-person startup delivering audio and streaming integrity technology to media platforms. We process data at TB/PB scale to protect the royalty ecosystem, generate authentic recommendations, and detect AI-generated content.

We are looking for an experienced ML engineer (+3 years) to work on our inference systems and data platform. In this role, you will be executing ML engineering, cloud platform/infrastructure design, and building ML model inference systems. You'll be a good fit if you have deep experience across different data stores, distributed systems, caching, and data transfer protocols. Our team manages and maintains integrated software systems, including inference containers, data processing pipelines, and feature stores/generation platforms.

Stack: Multi-cloud (AWS, GCP), Docker, Airflow, Python, MLflow, BigQuery, SQL, S3, GCS, GitHub Actions, Terraform.

The team is collaborative, and low-ego - we're looking for talented engineers who are comfortable working on projects that move at the pace of weeks rather than months and who love learning. Nice-to-haves include experience with audio/media systems, signal processing/spectograms, speech detection systems, computer vision, GPU hardware development, and event streaming systems.

Full posting: https://beatdapp.breezy.hr/p/fcefc290c7b0-ml-engineer-ii-inf...

Or reach me directly: kevin [at] beatdapp.com

Long Tail | full stack | REMOTE/US Based | full time

We build software to help hospitals fight insurance companies.

Small team that just took investment from PE firm so we're scaling rapidly.  Looking for AWS-native full stack architects with 5-10 years' experience.  No healthcare background required (always a plus though).

You'll be architecting, shipping features, and reviewing work from engineers.  Reports to VP of Eng.  Email me: scott dot decker at longtailhealth

No Isolation | Senior Go Developer & Senior Mobile Fullstack Developer | Hybrid (Oslo, Norway)

We're No Isolation. We are an award-winning EdTech behind the AV1 robot. We're building and operating fleets of connected robots and real-time applications. Our mission is to to help education providers ensure learning and belonging for all children.

The applications you will oversee and contribute to connect children to their classrooms, educational staff to key data insights and events, and help manage our fleet of robots. All to create a virtual bridge for children to keep learning when away from school. Whether on backend or across the fullstack, you will see the tangible impact you have.

What's in this for you:

- Small team = no bureaucracy

- Modern stack

- Chance to define technologies and architecture across our whole stack = real ownership

- Working with cool robots and apps streaming the robot's surroundings in real-life

- Ability to contribute to anything that interests you, from backend, through mobile/web frontend to embedded Linux

- 27 days of vacation

Our stack includes Go, React (Next.js), React Native (Expo), Rust (Embassy), with AWS as the cloud. We use protocols such as WebRTC, gRPC, WebSockets, REST. You don't need to be an expert in all of our stack though - as long as you'd like to work with it.

This role is based in Oslo with hybrid flexibility at our headquarters.

We welcome all qualified applicants. Due to current visa /work-permit processes, we can only progress candidates already in Norway or relocating from within the EU/EEA. (This note is about work authorization only; no sensitive personal data is required)

Fullstack job ad: https://careers.noisolation.com/jobs/7500791-senior-mobile-f...
Backend job ad: https://careers.noisolation.com/jobs/6911844-senior-go-devel...

Apollo Research | Infrastructure Engineer | SF, CA | Onsite | $215k–$265k + equity

Apollo Research is a leading AI Safety org. Our goal is to understand and evaluate scheming and to prevent catastrophic harms that scheming AI might cause. We build tools to make the deployment of powerful AI systems safer.

You’d build the infrastructure (IaC, networking, observability) Apollo depends on, decide the controls that keep pre-release models safe and have a direct impact on our relationships with frontier labs.

We’re looking for 7+ years infra/platform/DevOps, multi-account cloud and IaC depth, and have built a platform from scratch. If done this at a high-growth startup, owned infra at a high-performing org, or built services real users depended on, you’re likely a good fit.

Apply here: https://jobs.lever.co/apolloresearch/28c2a9e5-d018-4cc0-a191...

Virtasant (virtasant.com) | USA | Sr. Data Engineer | Full-time | 100% remote (within contiguous USA)

Virtasant is both a cloud optimization company (roles available for that area too!) and a staffing agency for some of our clients - they trust us to find the best candidates to join their teams.

For this role, you can own and scale a modern healthcare data platform — building core services, automation, and observability that power real-world patient and provider outcomes, fully remote, with long-term impact.

Long-term, no-end-date 1099 contract. US citizens or Green Card holders only, sadly (legal reasons).

5 yoe (5 of which building production-grade data or platform services), Python, SQL, AWS,  dbt, Snowflake (or BigQuery or Redshift), Spark, Kafka, Delta Lake (or Iceberg or Hudi), Airflow, CI/CD, Docker.

Apply at https://virtasant.teamtailor.com/jobs/7563920-senior-data-en...

Thank you!

Lovable| Hiring across Engineering | Stockholm/London | on-site|

Work on the frontier of agentic coding with some of the most brilliant engineers in the world. Apply to become one of the selected few that will have fundamental impact on our future.

lovable.dev/careers

Pomelo Care| Remote (US) First with offices in NYC and SF

We’re building a healthier future for women and children. We combine clinical excellence, human connection, and proactive technology to ensure our patients get the care they deserve, from preconception through midlife.

- Staff Software Engineer, Patient Experience

We're looking for a Staff SWE to operate as the Tech Lead for the Patient Experience team. Front-end leading fullstack eng, some mobile experience is a nice to have.

Apply here: https://grnh.se/ws5ijibc4us

- Senior Product Security Engineer
WE're looking for a Senior SWE capable of running with customer-facing product feature development, that wants to work on security features, and has amazing communication skills.

Apply here: https://grnh.se/1371qh6h4us

Stellar Science | Hybrid (USA) Albuquerque NM, Washington DC (Tysons VA), Dayton OH | Full time, interns/co-ops | U.S. citizenship required | https://www.stellarscience.com

Company: We're a small scientific software development company that develops custom scientific and engineering analysis applications in domains including: space situational awareness (monitoring the locations, health and status of on-orbit satellites), image simulation, high power microwave systems, modeling and simulation, laser systems modeling, AI/ML including physics-informed neural networks (PINN), human body thermoregulation, computer vision and image processing, high performance computing (HPC), computer aided design (CAD), and more. All exciting applications and no CRUD. We emphasize high quality code and lightweight processes that free software engineers to be productive.

Experience: Except for interns, we currently require a Bachelors degree in physics, engineering, math, computer science, or a related field. Masters or PhD is a plus. (Roughly 25% of our staff have PhDs.)

Technologies: Lots of C++23, Qt 6.9, CMake, git, OpenGL, CUDA, Boost, Jenkins. Windows and Linux, msvc/gcc/clang/clangcl. AI/ML and analysis projects use Python and C++. Web projects use Java and Typescript/React. We're a bit behind the curve on developer AI adoption, and we're okay with that.

Apply online: at https://www.stellarscience.com/careers/.

RealEstateU | Fullstack Engineer, MERN / LMS | REMOTE (UTC-01:00 to UTC+03:00) | Contract, full-time

We're a leading online U.S. real estate education provider. Our custom LMS is a large MERN platform (Node/Express, MongoDB Atlas, React, Azure) currently maintained by an external contractor. We need one senior fullstack engineer to help establish oversight and technical standards for the platform, as well as form our own engineering culture.

The work:

- CI/CD: Cut ticket-to-production from months to days. Modernize the build, tests, linting, and GitHub Actions.

- Architecture: Break a monolithic environment into dedicated microservices to enable async release schedule.

- APIs: Bolster integrations (Stripe, BioSig, Honorlock, SendGrid, Zapier) and open data up to new services.

- Frontend: Rebuild student-facing surfaces with modernized stack, ideally using a portable design system.

You: >5 years of solid React + Node on complex MERN products, fluent English, and have already embraced a constructive AI-native workflow (i.e. Claude Code / Codex / Cursor). This is an IC role where you will have significant ownership and ability to define engineering standards as we grow our in-house capabilities. This is not fractional or agency work.

You'll be given autonomy, work directly with founders + PM, and will not be micro-managed. We'll cover the AI coding plan of your choice and encourage its use with your good judgement. This is an opportunity to work on a scaled product (~100k users) with real revenue, not a startup.

Simply complete our 5-min questionnaire here and we'll reach back out to you directly: https://forms.gle/vjdnjrnDVxcsCWM76

BrightCore | Founding Engineer/Generalist | Dublin, Ireland (Hybrid, 2 days/wk) | Full-time | €58–65k + 1.0–1.5% equity

We're a 3-cofounder gym/fitness SaaS , closing a pre-seed. Hiring our first engineer to work on: - NestJS/Postgres backend (~70%) - Coral, our WhatsApp agent for member retention (~30%)

You'd be our first hire. Stack: NestJS, Prisma, Postgres, Next.js, Anthropic API, Meta WhatsApp Cloud API.

Looking for: 2-4 yrs backend, comfortable shipping solo, genuine curiosity about LLMs / retention modelling. ML hobbyist > ML PhD for this role.

Email: frankie@brightcore.ie ... short note: please state in the email that you are living in Ireland all other emails will be ignored  + GitHub or one thing you've shipped.

CoPlane (https://coplane.com/) | Product Engineer | NYC (preferred) or Remote (North America) | Full Time

The world doesn't need another ERP. CoPlane is building the Agentic Orchestration platform that enables enterprises to orchestrate intelligent processes across their existing systems. Founded by ex-Stripe/Segment product and tech leads, we're changing how businesses operate their backoffice - helping them scale intelligence not headcount.

We're looking for an exceptional product engineer to grow our small team of engineers that include ex-founders, open source contributors (authors of neovim and neverthrow), and architects of petabyte-scale data platforms.

We are looking for someone that wants to own product features end to end (Python + Typescript/React) but is particularly spiky on frontend and UI. You'll build a platform for billion-dollar enterprises solving their hardest, most mission-critical automation problems.

If you're excited about working at the nexus of data, automation and AI, and want to make a significant impact in an early, well-capitalized startup with large enterprise design partners, we'd love to hear from you.

Roles: Product Engineer.

For more info and to apply: https://coplane.com/careers

MWI Animal Health | Remote (US only) | Senior .NET Developer

MWI Animal Health is a leading U.S. distributor of animal health products, medications, and technology solutions for veterinarians and livestock producers.

What you'll do:

- Design, build, and maintain full-stack .NET applications using C#, ASP.NET Core, React
- Develop scalable backend services, integration layers, and data access patterns optimized for performance and maintainability
- Build and evolve solutions across new and existing products, demonstrating the flexibility to context-switch, learn new domains quickly, and deliver value in ambiguous or fast-changing environments.

What we're looking for:

- 7+ years of professional full-stack software engineering experience with strong emphasis on the .NET ecosystem

Nice to haves:

- Hands-on experience with DevOps tooling and practices (AWS, GitHub Actions, Terraform, Docker, Kubernetes, or similar).
- Practical knowledge of application security principles and experience embedding security into the development lifecycle.
- Experience with development related to payment processing.

Reach me at ashelmire [at] mwiah [dot] com

Root Managed Services, LLC | Network Engineers | Dallas, TX | https://rootmanagedservices.com

Hey HN! I'm Ian, one of the founders of Root Managed Services.

Root Managed Services is a managed IT services provider focused on helping businesses keep their infrastructure stable, secure, and running day to day.

We're hiring a network engineer who is excited to help with day-to-day NOC operations, client infrastructure support, alert triage, troubleshooting, and keeping systems online. This is a hands-on role for someone who enjoys digging into network issues, server alerts, firewalls, tickets, documentation, and the operational details that keep businesses running.

Root Managed Services works with small and growing businesses that need reliable IT operations without building a full internal team. That means our work spans networking, servers, workstations, monitoring, ticketing, backups, security, and client communications. We’re looking for someone who can help us improve our NOC process, respond to issues quickly, and build better operational workflows as we grow.

Stack / tools: Windows Server, Linux, firewalls, switches, VPNs, RMM tools, ticketing systems, monitoring/alerting, Microsoft 365, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, VLANs, TCP/IP.

Applying: email me and let me know why you want to work with us.

AES (associatedenvironmentalsystems.com) | Summer Software Engineering Intern | REMOTE (US, with occasional Boston-area days) | $30-40/hr | Full or part-time | June 15 – Aug 22, 2026

"The senior lead doesn't write code from scratch. Neither will you."

We're a tiny team building a field-service-management platform for AES, an environmental-test-chamber manufacturer. One senior lead, one part-time backend specialist, and we're hiring a summer intern. The product is pre-production with active user feedback driving the build — you'll ship features that real service coordinators and field technicians will use day-to-day.

The bar is NOT raw coding ability. We use Claude Code for all code generation. The bar is the ability to direct an AI at production engineering and catch it when it's wrong: schema literacy, diff-reading, end-to-end ownership.

Stack: Next.js 14 (App Router, RSC, Server Actions), TypeScript strict, Prisma + Postgres, Tailwind + shadcn/ui, NextAuth, Twilio, Anthropic SDK, Playwright. ~100K lines of TS with `any` banned by lint.

Must-haves: a track record building with AI tools (link your best AI-built work — a PR, a deployed project, or a repo, ideally with a CLAUDE.md), at least one shipped end-to-end project that runs somewhere a stranger can use, schema/data-flow literacy, clear written communication, strong academic record. TypeScript fluency NOT required from scratch.

Eligibility: US person, able to pass standard background check. We can't sponsor visas or hire F-1/OPT for this role.

Logistics: 20–40 hrs/wk flex, Mon–Fri, remote with occasional in-person days at AES Chelmsford MA or our coworking space in Waltham MA. W-2, paid hourly. Apps close June 8.

No leetcode. No whiteboard. Show us your best AI-built work — a PR, a deployed app, or a repo. Apply: https://tally.so/r/44pNxX

Perry Street Software | Remote (EU/LatAm/North America) | Senior DevOps/Ruby | Fulltime

As a Senior DevOps Engineer, you will help run the cloud infrastructure that powers our Ruby API for our family of LGBTQ+ mobile dating apps. We are looking for engineers who are passionate about architecture and monads! Ok just kidding about the last part -- but you can see more about our approach to API development in our Medium blog series at https://medium.com/perry-street-software-engineering/a-summa.... The position is 40 hours per week and ongoing/full-time. Our company is also proud to have recently launched the first architectural linter for Ruby, described at the link above.

Apply for our roles here: https://www.perrystreet.com/careers

We spend a lot of time describing our technology and our approach on our Blog, above. If you want to make it to the first round of in-person Zoom interviews with our company, take the time to read our blog posts, and let us know how what we've done compares to, or could have helped with, your experience. Given the volume of applications we read, the most impactful applications contain cover letters with specific examples, demonstrate understanding of the business in which we operate, and include updated and detailed LinkedIn profiles. Candidates using AI to assist in building an application for this role should consider how their cover letter contains specific examples of experience with our actual job requirements, as well as demonstrable interest in and understanding of our company and community. Note that purely AI-written applications will not be considered for any role.

Lago (https://getlago.com/) | Hiring in Paris and remote in wider Europe and Americas for various roles | Hiring across product, engineering and GTM

The Open Source, AI-native billing platform - Lago is the billing platform that gives teams full transparency, control and flexibility to manage and scale any pricing model. Trusted by PayPal, Synthesia, CoreWeave and Mistral.ai to handle their billing.

Right now our hiring is deliberate and specific. We'd especially love to hear from applicants to our open Infrastructure Engineer and Product Engineer positions.

Our open roles here: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/lago

- Infrastructure Engineer (Europe, Canada or Brazil)

- Backend Engineer (Ruby / Europe)

- Frontend Engineer (React / Europe)

===============================================

- Product Engineer (France or wider Europe)

- Product Designer (France or wider Europe)

===============================================

- Enterprise Sales Consultant (France)

- Forward Deployed Engineer (France or wider Europe)

- Product Engineer (Growth focus)(Europe/USA)

Looking forward to seeing some great applicants from here!

Articulate | Mid level & Senior Software Engineers | Full-time | REMOTE (US) | $109k–$217k

We’re hiring Software Engineers to join the Integrations team within the Expansion product group!
The mission of this team is to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our creator personas by delivering reliable integrations that embed Articulate 360 into our customers’ daily workflows. Because AI is central to how Articulate 360 delivers value, this team ensures our integrations enable intelligent workflows—connecting external systems in ways that enhance automation, context-sharing, and AI-driven experiences.

We're also hiring a Senior Software Engineer II for the Distribution team. The Distribution team is responsible for building and maintaining products that deliver eLearning content to learners globally. We partner closely with Articulate’s teams building content creation tools, like Rise 360 and Storyline, to produce impactful solutions to our learners and authors.

- Software Engineer II (Expansion - Integrations): https://jobs.lever.co/articulate/848be240-df59-49a3-9cc9-ccf...

- Senior Software Engineer I (Expansion - Integrations): https://jobs.lever.co/articulate/da1e99a0-9b9d-4cad-910e-f09...

- Senior Software Engineer II (Distributions): https://jobs.lever.co/articulate/c65fbd9d-0d78-4e7c-abe1-66d...

Safi | Product Engineer | London HQ or Remote (within ±2 hrs of London) | Full-time | £110,000–£160,000 + equity | https://www.safi.co

We're hiring for a Senior/Staff level Product Engineer to help us get as close to our customers as possible and develop product with them.

You will be helping Forklift Drivers and Plant Managers at industrial recyclers (smelters, MRFs, plastics) use ML Models via their phones to assess the quality of material in their yard, and exploring how we can enter in to other markets too.

If you're excited to join a small, eager, talented team please get in touch!

Apply: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/safi/06794918-bef7-4a6b-a2d3-c58c17...

Monk | In person New York| Full Time | https://monk.com/
Monk helps businesses get paid. We are solving the $3T accounts receivables problem with AI.

Searching for full-stack engineers, FDE, MTS (Member of Technical Staff - Applied AI)

- founders: ex-D.E.Shaw/Minecraft/Snap + scaled/exited before for >$100M

- building at the app layer (not training/tuning anything)

- live V1 product with happy customers + results

- $29M raised in last 12 months (bad proxy for success, but the point is we have resources)

- building in-person in NYC (no exceptions)

Answers to a # of questions you may have are here: https://monk.com/join-us (see 3 embedded links). This might be a strong fit if you align with our values (notion doc)

Questions or interest? Good! george@monk.com

Santa Clara, CA | ONSITE | Android Engineer (AI-native, junior-friendly) | Jefit | $115K-$125K + equity + benefits

Jefit is a profitable fitness-tech company — 15+ years in market, no funding pressure, no enterprise red tape. We're hiring an experienced Android engineer to drive the Android side of our Adaptive Plan — a mesocycle-driven progressive-overload engine — end-to-end alongside our CTO. You'll see your code in front of millions of users every day.

What we care about (more than years on a resume):

You've shipped real Android products to Play Store — solo side projects count

Kotlin + Jetpack Compose + Coroutines, or you're actively learning them

AI-coding-assistant fluency is non-negotiable — Claude Code, Cursor, Copilot integrated into your daily workflow, not a name-drop

Offline-first / Room / SQLite mindset (we run in real gym environments where the WiFi is bad)

Extreme ownership end-to-end — feature, ship, polish, debug, repeat

We bias toward fast learners who already use AI to ship faster, over senior engineers stuck on a 2018 stack.

In-office in Santa Clara, CA. US work authorization required (no sponsorship).

Apply: https://tally.so/r/lbvOBN

Maryland Digital Service (MDDS) | Senior Technical Lead | Maryland Department of Information Technology | Maryland / Remote-friendly | $140K–$175K

MDDS is building cross-functional Deployed Teams that work directly with state agencies to modernize how digital services are delivered.

The role includes technical strategy, architecture decisions, rapid prototyping within legacy constraints, and mentoring agency staff in DevOps, CI/CD, test-driven development, and modern engineering practices.

We are looking for senior engineers who can operate with autonomy, communicate well with technical and non-technical stakeholders, and help build accessible, inclusive digital services for Marylanders.

These are annually renewable W-2 contractual roles, not 1099. They include subsidized health benefits, accrued PTO, and flexible remote/telework options.

Apply:
https://airtable.com/app9YxL1UZCYKvch4/pagDhaV7mZGvB5v5e/for...

Questions: email david.holmes@maryland.gov and CC MDDS.recruiting@maryland.gov.

Viam | NYC (Onsite 3 days/week) | Staff Engineer, Fleet Management | Lead, Data Platform | VP / Director Engineering | https://www.viam.com

Viam makes robotics as programmable as software. We build a unified software layer for robotics, connected machines, and devices across hardware, cloud services, edge compute, data systems, and AI workloads. Founded by former MongoDB CTO/co-founder Eliot Horowitz. Open Source.

Staff Engineer, Fleet Management: Build cloud systems and full-stack product experiences for managing fleets of machines. Own features end-to-end across backend services, web applications, APIs, permissions/auth, and platform architecture.

Lead, Data Platform: Manage a team of 5+ engineers building full-stack systems powering how machine data is captured, moved, stored, and used across deployed fleets. Stay hands-on while shaping architecture, mentoring engineers, and driving execution.

VP / Director Engineering: Lead teams building distributed systems, developer platforms, cloud infrastructure, and software for connected devices. Shape technical direction, improve execution, and stay close to hard engineering problems.

Tech Stack: Go, TypeScript, Svelte, MongoDB, gRPC/protobuf, Linux

Apply: https://grnh.se/g482kvei4us
Questions: amanda@viam.com

ClickHouse | Distributed Data Infrastructure Engineer | Remote Hiring in the US right now. Seniors/Staff/Principal levels

ClickHouse is a popular, Open-Source OLAP Database. We are ClickHouse Inc, the company behind the database aiming to build the best in class real time data warehouse.

What we are looking for:

Distributed Systems / Cloud Engineers to build

    - AutoScaling Systems for a Cloud Database

    - A Distributed Caching Layer on top of S3 [0]

If you have experience in productionizing and maintaining distributed systems cloud-based multi-tenant caches - you would fit right in.

We also maintain our own ClickHouse based Data Infrastructure. Bonus points if you've worked on auto-scaling or other data-driven forecasting challenges in the past.

    Can work in a fast moving scale-up environment. Proactive and hands on.

    You must be independent and self-organized.

    Database SRE / Cache Operations experience

    Go, Kubernetes, Distributed Systems in general

    You will need to be able to do On-Call - debugging production infra, db or cache issues

    Low-level database programming (C++, ClickHouse) - This is crucial for the cache.

If you want to work on operating production critical databases/caches in the cloud on or write data-driven algorithms for autoscaling, consider applying! Send me an email: manish.gill [at] clickhouse [dot] com

[0] https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-distributed-cache-for...

Close | 100% REMOTE (US only) | Full Time | Bootstrapped & Profitable

- Software Engineer (Backend)
- Software Engineer (Frontend)
- Site Reliability Engineer
- Software Engineer Support (internal team)

Close is hiring four engineers — Sr. Backend Engineer (Python), Sr. Frontend Engineer, Site Reliability Engineer, and a Software Engineer for our Support team (internal tooling + AI systems).

We're bootstrapped, profitable, ~100 people, 100% remote US. No PMs telling you what to build — we hire people who take ownership, move fast, and care about craft.

The Support Eng role in particular is a rare one: embedded inside our Support function, shipping AI automation and internal tools with a tight feedback loop.

All roles are full-time, async-first, US time zones. https://close.com/careers

Republic Services | AI Staff Engineer | WFH in Arizona preferably, will consider remote | $132,600- $182,250 + Bonus

We’re hiring an AI Staff Engineer to help lead the next wave of enterprise software built with GenAI and agentic AI. This is a senior technical leadership role for someone who can combine strong engineering depth with real business partnership and influence across product, data, architecture, and executive stakeholders.

You’ll work closely with business leaders, product managers, and data scientists to identify high-value opportunities where AI can reduce friction, improve efficiency, lower risk, and create measurable business impact. A big part of the role is translating ambiguous business problems into practical AI-enabled solutions and helping leaders make smart decisions about where and how to invest.

On the technical side, you’ll design and build core services, APIs, and orchestration pipelines that connect LLMs and agentic workflows to enterprise data, systems, and digital platforms. You’ll provide technical direction to distributed engineering teams, lead design and code quality practices, and help teams ship secure, scalable, production-grade solutions.

You’ll also play a key leadership role in shaping platform standards around reliability, observability, governance, and responsible AI. We want someone who can partner credibly with senior leaders, drive execution across teams, and turn GenAI from experimentation into durable business value.

DM me or apply here https://wd5.myworkday.com/republic/d/inst/15$392530/9925$288...

Findigs | Full-time | NYC | 3x/week in office (M,T, Th) | findigs.com

At Findigs, we’re transforming the rental experience — making it fairer, stress-free, and more convenient by changing the fundamentals of renting.

We build high-scale applications that streamline renting for millions. Our modern tech stack includes Python, Typescript, Node.js, React, and scalable cloud infrastructure.

We foster a collaborative culture where engineers have high ownership and autonomy, taking features from concept to deployment.

Join our sharp, supportive, and mission-driven team in our newly renovated NoHo office.

Open roles:

Lead Software Engineer (https://jobs.lever.co/findigs/1ea92751-1c85-4eb6-84b4-86c529...)

Senior Software Engineer (https://jobs.lever.co/findigs/3b39616d-223f-4326-a500-f804c3...)

Competitive Base Salary plus Pre-IPO Equity

401k Matching up to 4%

Unlimited PTO

Lunch in office every day, home office setup stipend, monthly gym stipend

Elucid | Principal Platform Engineer | Boston, MA | ONSITE (hybrid) | $170k–$205k | https://elucid.applytojob.com/apply/BHpChxSggM/Principal-Pla...

Elucid builds FDA-cleared AI software that analyzes cardiac CT scans to characterize plaque and predict heart attack and stroke risk. The world's best cardiologists use our output to make treatment decisions for real patients. As such, our platform is regulated as a Software as a Medical Device (SaMD) product by the FDA and we operate under HIPAA, ISO 13485, and ISO 27001.

We're hiring a Principal Platform Engineer to own our cloud infrastructure and developer platform: AWS, containers, Terraform, CI/CD, observability, and the self-service tooling that lets our application teams ship quickly inside a regulated SDLC.

We are looking for: 7+ years in DevOps/SRE/platform roles, deep AWS, strong IaC, comfort with containers (ECS/Fargate, Kubernetes), and one language you reach for when building tooling (Python, Go, Rust, Ruby, C++). Healthcare or regulated-industry experience is a plus, but not a requirement.

On-call is a shared rotation, roughly 2–3 weeks per quarter, business-day coverage only (9am–midnight ET, no overnights).

Apply at the link above.

NYC | ONSITE (hybrid)

Norm Ai, the agentic law company, has a client base with a combined $30 trillion in assets under management.
Norm Ai pioneered Legal Engineering, the process that empowers lawyers to build and supervise domain-specific AI agents with Norm’s proprietary suite of no-code software tools. Norm Ai technology is deployed inside many of the largest and most consequential institutions in the world.

Norm Ai is also the technology behind Norm Law, LLP, a separate but affiliated AI-native law firm built for the era of agentic AI. Norm Law’s attorneys advise leading institutions across private funds, private equity, venture capital, real estate, registered funds, and financial regulation, using the same legal intelligence platform that powers Norm Ai’s products.

The company is growing quickly and hiring in NYC across all teams, see list here: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/norm-ai?utm_source=7ow8wN5o3g

Bubblehouse | Integration Engineer | FULLY REMOTE | $70–110k/yr | Full-time

We're a fast-growing custom & private loyalty platform powering programs for household-name brands. Small, fully-remote team across the US and Europe.

We want a detail-obsessed, autonomous mid-to-senior engineer (~5–10 yrs) to investigate customer problems, drive integrations end to end, and own the specs that make them work.

You will use AI to its fullest, but will keep a very close eye on whatever that AI produces. As such, this role is less about coding, and more about figuring out what to build, how that best fits into the system, and why things are as they are, debugging edge cases, anticipating failure modes, talking to people, and plain old debugging.

Tech-wise, we're running on Golang, and using custom database engine on top of local key-value stores, colocating the storage and compute on dedicated hardware servers, and reading data directly from mmap'ed pages of the database. Ever came across HN saying that one can run Twitter on a single machine these days? We're doing that in production. Zero lines of React, few third-party dependencies carefully vetted, every line of JavaScript manually written, and we render HTML server-side like it's 2005.

You: detail-oriented to a fault, self-motivated about investigation/debugging work, comfortable spoken English for client calls, available 9am to noon in New York time.

We are straightforward, driven, personal, and a little messy. We all care, and we expect you to care too.

Details + how to apply: https://jobs.bubblehouse.com/integration-engineer/

Lysk | lysk.ai | AI/Geo Engineer | Full-time | Warsaw / Paris

Lysk is a European defence startup, based between Paris and Warsaw. Our mission is to create modern software tailored for hostile environments. Our customers include European military and police units. We are in stealth but have already been recognised as one of France’s top 20 seed companies. Backed by Project A, Europe’s leading defence VC, and angels including the founders of Cloudflare, Quantum Systems, and ElevenLabs. We’re assembling a world-class team at the intersection of modern software and defence. We do not work on weapons systems or hardware products.

Currently we're looking for:

- Junior LLM engineer (gguf, on-prem models, llm validation and pipelines)

- Junior Voice AI engineer (we need customised STT models)

- Senior GEO-AI engineer (interpreation of speech-based geographical information)

Railtown AI | Head of Developer Relations | REMOTE (North America preferred) / Vancouver, BC | Full-time | $130k-$180k + equity | https://employmenthero.com/en-ca/jobs/position/railtown-ai-h...

Railtown AI is building a unified platform for modern AI-powered software development. Our products span developer productivity engineering, backend infrastructure for agent and app development, a Python framework for production-ready agents, and structured evaluation workflows for responsible AI deployment.

We're looking for a Head of Developer Relations to help make Railtown AI the default stack for building, observing, and evaluating AI agents. You'll own the developer narrative across Conductr, Railengine, Railtracks, and Agent Evaluations, then turn that story into adoption through technical content, demos, docs, community programs, open source growth, and direct feedback loops with product and engineering.

Good fit if you've spent 5+ years in developer advocacy, DevRel, technical product marketing, or a similar developer-facing role; have scaled a developer platform or technical audience; understand AI tooling, agents, and observability; and can write code, demo live, and communicate clearly with both developers and executives.

Benefits include health coverage, equity, flexible time off, paid parental leave, annual company retreat, and WFH equipment stipend.

To apply: https://employmenthero.com/en-ca/jobs/position/railtown-ai-h...

Join (join.build) | Staff Software Engineer (Web) | REMOTE (US & Canada) | Full-Time | $175K–$205K + equity | React/Go/Postgres

Join is SaaS for the construction industry — we bring contractors, owners, and design teams onto one platform to coordinate high-value projects.

You'll work across our flagship collaboration app: shaping frontend architecture and UI quality, influencing engineering-wide standards, and shipping with urgency while weighing long-term tradeoffs. We're hiring across profiles — frontend-heavy, fullstack, and backend-heavy — and want someone T-shaped across React/Go/Postgres with deep expertise in at least one.

Stack: React/TypeScript (Vite, RTL, Cypress), Go, Postgres, AWS, Terraform.

You: senior/staff-level experience; strong in at least one of React, Go, or Postgres; a clear communicator who mentors and reviews well.

Apply: email jon@join.build with your resume, whether you lean frontend or backend, and — if you can — a PR review you've given that had a positive impact. Mention HN.

Sudowrite | https://sudowrite.com | √ REMOTE (US) | √ PMF | √ PROFITABLE | Full-Time

Kind, smart, low-drama people, seeking the same to help make writing tools authors dream about.

Our users have published thousands of books using Sudowrite, and we're building a sustainable company, not chasing unrealistic growth targets set by VCs.

* We help the next generation of storytellers tell better stories.

* We believe the future of writing is AI & human collaboration.

* Co-founders both had prior exits.

—————————————————————

Hiring: Senior Mobile Developer

* Make writing on a phone a delight.

* You should have: Great taste and product sense, lots of agency, extensive React Native experience, and a sense of humor, adventure, and hope.

* Nice to have: You write, you code, you're good at animation.
Comp: 160-180K, equity, 401K, profit share, retreats, unlimited books.

—————————————————————

APPLY: https://sudowrite.com/jobs/mobile

Opaxa | Founding Full-Stack Engineer | San Francisco | Full-time | $200K–$300K + founding equity | opaxa.ai

Opaxa is the AI agent platform that runs restaurant back-office operations. Not another dashboard — agents that take the work off the operator's plate and act: build the schedule and push it to action, place the order with distributors, audit the invoice for overcharges, draft the review reply. The operator approves what matters; the rest gets done.

The unfair part: the founder owns and runs a 40-location restaurant company with over 750 employee's — so Opaxa's first customer is a real, operating restaurant group with real data and real stakes from day one. Deep domain expertise is built in, and your work runs in real restaurants immediately, not after a six-month hunt for a design partner. Well-funded.

A working prototype is already built. Now I'm hiring a founding full-stack engineer to take it from prototype to production: own the architecture, the agent runtime, the backend, and the integrations the agents act through (Toast, Paycom, Sysco, and more), set the technical bar, and grow the team behind you.

You'd work directly with me — I own product, customers, and the domain; you own the AI and the build. We'd be hiring additional engineers and account managers within the first year.

You're a fit if you:
- have shipped agentic systems to production — plan-and-act, not chatbots or wrappers
- are a strong full-stack builder (Python and/or Node, Postgres, real infra)
- use the latest AI tooling (Claude Code / Cursor) as your default
want to own a whole product as the first engineer, and eventually lead

Stack: React/TypeScript, Python/Node, Postgres, the Anthropic API, integrations across the restaurant stack.

To apply: email me at colton@opaxa.ai with the most impressive agentic system you've personally shipped — what it did, what you owned, and what made it hard — plus your resume or links. I read every one and reply. Please write it yourself; if it's clearly AI-generated, I'll pass.

Pango | Founding Full-stack Software Engineer | On-site (hybrid) in Stockholm, Sweden (Visa Sponsorship possible) | Full time

Pango is building the world's first Agentic Operating System for e-commerce logistics. Our vision is to create the AI e-commerce employee of the future. We are forming our core team in Stockholm and are looking for exceptional engineers. We are backed by some of the most some of the most prominent investors in the world. In less than a year, we have seen massive growth where we can't keep up with the demand and need engineers to bring the product faster to the market.

You are a good fit if:

* You are comfortable maintaining, expanding and operating an entire B2B SaaS platform with a high sense of ownership.

* You have previous experience working at a SaaS product company as a founding or senior engineer

* You are unafraid of any technology, and are willing to go out of the comfort zone to use the best tool for the job

* You have strong proficiency in any backend language or platform with a strong willingness to dive deep into PHP/Laravel OR strong proficiency in JS/React.

* E-commerce (Shopify, Magento, other platforms, shipping carrier integrations) experience is a plus.

You will take a key role in shaping the product and company, with ability to make an impact and advance career limited only by your aptitude and interest.

Reach out to Steve@pango.ai if you are interested or have any questions. We review applications immediately and move quickly.

Sumble | Multiple Roles | Remote (US)| Full-time

Sumble is the newco from the founders of Kaggle. We are hiring full stack engineers, ai/ml engineers and growth/marketing. Can view our roles and apply here: https://sumble-inc.workable.com/

We are building a knowledge graph from web data with a first focus on data for go-to-market teams.

We use web data to identify things like org structure, tech stack, and key projects (e.g., GenAI initiatives, cloud migrations). Our product already has strong product-market fit, early revenue, and happy customers — and now we’re ready to accelerate.

Our long-term vision is to become the world's best data vendor. Try the product at sumble.com.

We are a team of 25 with experience at companies such as Google, Meta, Stack Overflow, Rippling, Snowflake, Confluent and Kaggle.

We raised $38.5MM from Coatue, Canaan, Square Peg Capital https://techcrunch.com/2025/10/22/sumble-emerges-from-stealt...

Radar Labs | Software Engineers (SRE, data platform, backend, full-stack, mobile) | Remote (US), NYC | Full Time | https://radar.com

- Radar is the geo-location dev tool

- Doing 1B+ API calls per day

- Our main languages are Rust and TypeScript, we also use mobile and offline pipeline languages (Python, Scala, and Terraform).

- We're based in NYC with our HQ in Union Square and remote friendly (US)

Interesting things we're working on:

- HorizonDB, our Geospatial database written in Rust

- Precise indoor location more accurate than iOS and Android leveraging Ultra-Wideband, other mobile sensors and ML.

- Anomaly detection to identify spoofed locations

- Mobile infrastructure that automatically configures itself optimizing battery-life and location accuracy for different use-cases over time

- Multi-Region AWS K8s deployment, 99.99%+ availability

- Frontend tools to visualize and debug location data at scale

Check out our jobs page here: https://radar.com/jobs#jobs If you have any questions, feel free to reply here or you can e-mail me at tim@radar.com

Scholarly | Senior Software Engineer | Seattle, On-Site | Full-Time | $160k - $200k + equity + health benefits + equipment budget

Scholarly is building the HR operating system for higher education. We've built a software platform that enables our customers to make data-driven decisions and to automate essential processes like performance reviews, tenure processes, leave workflows, and more. We are a venture-backed seed stage company of experienced, motivated, and collaborative folks. We are backed by leading investors in the industry and working with some of the best universities in the US. The team comes from Gusto, NASA JPL, Amazon, Outreach, and others.

We're looking for a full-stack candidate with 8 or more years of experience building web applications. We write Ruby and Rails, but we are considering candidates with other stack experiences. Engineering is based in Seattle and on site in Pioneer Square. Looking to get back to a collaborative, in-office culture post-COVID? Let's chat.

If interested, please apply here: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/Scholarly/d4c84468-fd4b-4dd7-9b22-2...

YNAB | Senior iOS Engineer | Remote (US) | Full-time | $145-$190k + profit-sharing bonuses

YNAB is a product company with a mission: to help people get good at money so they never worry about money again. For over 20 years, YNAB has been changing lives—and people can’t stop telling their friends about it. (Truly! We have the best community.) Read more at www.ynab.com

YNAB started in 2004 and we haven’t taken any outside funding—we’re established, profitable, and in this for the long haul.

We currently have a team of 8 iOS developers and an Engineering org of about 45 total. You'd be embedded in a product team alongside a PM, product designer, QA analyst, support specialist, and a few other fullstack engineers.

If you're interested, read the full JD here and apply before June 7th at 11:59pm PT (and don't miss the 3 questions to include in your cover letter!): https://ynab.pinpointhq.com/postings/04715f30-5fb5-4ee7-9d27...

If you still have questions after reading the JD, email me at amber@ynab.com

Kong | Senior Software Engineer, Kong Identity | Toronto, Canada | CA$145K–215K

I'm a Staff Engineer on Kong's Identity team. We're hiring a Senior Software Engineer to help build the identity platform behind Konnect.

The team owns authentication and authorization services, OAuth 2.0 / OpenID Connect infrastructure, token issuance and validation, client credential management, claims generation, and the APIs that let customers automate identity workflows.

Some of the problems we work on:

- Building low-latency token generation, validation, and introspection services
- Designing multi-tenant identity systems with strong tenant isolation
- Implementing OAuth 2.0 and OIDC flows across Kong products
- Developing dynamic claims engines and authorization capabilities
- Operating globally distributed authentication services with caching, replication, and edge optimization
- Building developer-facing APIs and SDKs
- Improving observability, security, and reliability of critical auth infrastructure

Our stack is primarily Go, Kubernetes, and cloud-native infrastructure.

We're looking for engineers with experience building backend and distributed systems. Experience with identity systems, OAuth, OIDC, JWTs, or authentication platforms is helpful but not required.

Job posting:
https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/kong/51d67676-a475-4f1e-a598-85f7ca...

SmarterDx | 150-250k+ + equity + benefits | Remote (US only) | Multiple roles | https://smarterdx.com/careers

SmarterDx builds clinical AI for one of healthcare’s most broken systems: how hospitals get paid for the care they actually deliver.

Our physician-designed clinical AI platform reviews the clinical record, understands the nuance of patient care, and helps hospitals capture appropriate reimbursement across the revenue cycle. The core problem is hard: messy clinical data, complex regulations, payer rules, medical reasoning, and real financial stakes. When we get it right, hospitals recover millions in earned revenue, reduce manual review burden, and keep clinical and revenue teams focused on higher-value work.

We’ve hit serious scale while keeping the team unusually strong and technical: MD/data scientist hybrids, Stanford LLM researchers, former Google and Amazon engineers, former ASF board member, and others who are among the best in their fields. Many teammates have been here since we bootstrapped to $1M+ in contracted revenue before raising capital.

In 2025, SmarterDx became part of Smarter Technologies through a $1.1B deal with New Mountain Capital, reaching unicorn status while continuing to operate with the autonomy, urgency, and product velocity that got us here. Before that, we raised $71M from Floodgate, Transformation Capital, and Bessemer, including a $50M Series B.

We have real product-market fit: 85+ health systems, 300+ hospital sites, rapid customer growth, and 150% YoY headcount growth (currently at ~500). Now we’re scaling the platform.

For more and to apply, see https://smarterdx.com/careers

PlantingSpace | Full-time | Remote (EU time zone) + Quarterly Meet-ups | https://planting.space

We're building a system that represents domain knowledge as modular probabilistic models — making analysis rigorous and transparent. Users can connect these models flexibly into larger structures. The system enforces consistency across them, and propagates uncertainty through each step. Our first applications are in finance and scientific research, with use cases ranging from equity valuation and distress monitoring, to particle physics.

We’re building out our team in the following areas:

* Program Lead - Engineering

* Product Software Engineering

* Product Software Engineering (Quantitative Modeling)

* Applied Category Theory Research

* Bayesian Software Engineering

* Program Synthesis Engineering

We're also looking for Domain Experts to collaborate on high-value use cases -- identifying and validating opportunities, shaping them into working solutions with our engineers, and taking them from pilot to production with real users. Practitioners with expertise in Valuation Models, Quantitative Default-Probability Models, or Interest Rate Prediction Models are particularly relevant right now.

Find out more, and apply at: https://planting.space/joinus/

Go.Shop | Product Builder — Growth Channels | Remote (GMT to GMT+8, London travel) | REMOTE

Go.Shop is the AI-powered platform enabling creators to build and scale consumer product brands — the infrastructure layer for creator-led DTC. Founded by serial entrepreneurs with previous exits.

We're hiring our third Product Builder to own Growth Channels end-to-end as PM, designer, and engineer in one person — the platform and tooling that grows creator brands across creator marketing, affiliate, email, paid media, and more.

You'll work on:
- Creator marketing & affiliate: discovery, recruitment, program management, affiliate asset generation, UGC
- Paid media & conversion: ad creative generation, ad management, paid amplification automation, CRO
- Attribution & AI growth agents: cross-channel analytics (Shopify, Klaviyo, Meta, TikTok), bottom-up forecasting, agents that recommend campaigns and execute playbooks with human approval

Tech Stack: Next.js, TypeScript, Python, Postgres/Supabase, Claude/Cursor for AI-assisted dev, martech APIs (Klaviyo, Meta Ads, TikTok, Shopify)

Requirements:
- Hybrid product-engineering profile: engineer with strong product sense, or PM who codes well — you own product decisions AND ship the code
- Full-stack capable: architecture, APIs, databases, data pipelines, production deploys
- Strong growth/martech grasp: funnels, attribution, channel economics; up to date with current AI marketing tools
- Actively building with AI today (prototypes, agents, workflows)

Perks: Stock options, salary based on location and experience, real ownership from day one in a small high-trust team.

Apply: jobs@goshopbrands.com

Better Stack | https://betterstack.com/ | /^Full-?stack Engineer$/i | Remote (North America & Europe)

We are software builders at :heart: CEO is a software engineer, COO is a software engineer, and you guessed it, CTO is an engineer, too. We are engineers, making the tools we always wanted. If you love building amazing software, you're at the right address.

We are looking for software engineers who, given enough time, could build Better Stack on their own = looking for full-stack product engineer generalists to help us create high-quality software with exceptional UX, end-to-end.

Apply at https://betterstack.com/careers/fullstack-engineer

How we operate: https://betterstack.com/careers – https://betterstack.com/careers/engineering – https://juraj.blog/

IonQ | Senior Research Software Engineer | Boston, MA (ONSITE - Hybrid) | Full-time

We are looking for a Senior Research Software Engineer for our Global R&D team at IonQ. You'd build the software our quantum scientists rely on for lab orchestration, experiment data, and hardware control. If you've written software that talks to real instruments and wrangles real, messy, physical-world data, this might be for you.

Looking for: 5+ years of experience, strong Python skills, ownership of the full software development lifecycle, observability, and CI/CD. Hardware or lab-data experience is the bar.

No physics background is required!

Apply here: https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/ionq/jobs/5998606004

Sony Music Entertainment | London, UK / New York, NY | ONSITE / HYBRID

Sony Music Entertainment is one of the world's leading music companies, home to artists, labels, and the technology that powers them. We're hiring across engineering and product.

- Software Engineer, D2C (London): https://careers.sonymusic.com/jobs/8336599002

- Senior Software Engineer, D2C (London): https://careers.sonymusic.com/jobs/8344246002

- Senior Product Manager, D2C (New York): https://careers.sonymusic.com/jobs/8447185002

- Engineering Manager, Pub Admin (London): https://careers.sonymusic.com/jobs/8400756002

- VP of Engineering, Content (London): https://careers.sonymusic.com/jobs/8536490002

We're also hiring more Engineering Managers and Software Engineers (including Principal and Lead roles) in London, New York, and Tallinn.

For the details: https://careers.sonymusic.com/jobs

CrazyGames | https://about.crazygames.com/ | REMOTE (in Europe) | Full-time | Multiple roles

With recent technologies such as WebGPU and WebAssembly, the browser is quickly becoming a powerful gaming platform. High-quality 3D graphics and near-native level performance are now possible without the need for downloads, apps, or platform-specific development. Our browser games platform is already reaching 50 million people per month. We are self-funded, profitable, remote-first, and fast-growing.

We are currently looking for multiple people to bring our engineering, product, and adops to the next level.

Please note that we're looking for people who can work on a European timezone and are ideally based in Europe (which includes the UK for those in doubt).

* Product Manager (Game Experience): https://jobs.crazygames.com/o/remote-product-manager-game-ex...

* Ad Operations Manager: https://jobs.crazygames.com/o/remote-ad-operations-manager

* Product Engineer: https://jobs.crazygames.com/o/remotehybrid-product-engineer-...

Ashby | YC 19 | REMOTE | Hiring Senior/Staff Product Engineers (Americas) | $153k–$275k

Ashby is the all-in-one recruiting platform powering hiring at the world's most innovative companies. If you cmd+f "Ashby" you'll see that we're powering many of the job postings in this thread!

We’re looking to continue to scale our Product Engineering team

* 80%+ of our engineering team is Senior–Staff+ level.

* We give an unusual amount of ownership to build features end-to-end from spec writing to production. Many of our most loved features were built entirely by a single engineer!

* Building fast is getting easier, building the right thing still isn't. Customer empathy, sound judgment, and taste matter more than ever. That's what we judge candidates on, not where they've worked in the past.

* 100% remote async culture with an even distribution of engineers across North America and Europe.

* Here's how we're thinking about AI at Ashby: https://www.ashbyhq.com/blog/engineering/ai-ashby-engineerin...

* Full transparency on engineering levels + comp: https://www.ashbyhq.com/blog/engineering/leveling-and-compen...

Stack: TypeScript (frontend & backend), React, GraphQL API, Node.js, Postgres, Redis.

Full list of open roles: https://www.ashbyhq.com/careers?utm_source=HNwhoshiring

Olli Health | Remote (US/CA) w/ Quarterly Travel | Full-Time | ollihealth.ai

Hi HN -

Several of our critical founding hires came through this forum, and we currently have 3 open roles!

Olli Health

Built by home health experts and seasoned product managers and engineers from Amazon, Google, Cohere Health, and Arrive Health, Olli Health streamlines ICD-10 coding and in-home documentation with industry-leading speed and accuracy, freeing nurses to focus on patients while helping agencies maximize revenue, reduce compliance risk, and scale efficiently.

We’re backed by top healthtech and AI-focused VCs (Cannage Capital, Arkitekt Ventures, and Tau Ventures) and Olli Health was recently profiled in Home Health Care News (https://homehealthcarenews.com/2025/11/home-health-ai-platfo..., Post-Acute Care's leading publication).

We are motivated by the opportunity for impact, and driven to ensure that our parents, friends, (and ourselves!) will continue to have access to quality healthcare in the home.

Roles

Senior AI Engineer | $180k-220k: Own end-to-end LLM product surfaces in a clinical/HIPAA environment, running rigorous evals and experiments across prompts, retrieval, and agents while shipping fast with strong Python chops and NLP fundamentals.

Senior Software Engineer, Scribe & Integrations | $160k-190k: Ship production React Native apps with strong TypeScript/PostgreSQL chops to own the full stack end-to-end, wrangling messy EHR data integrations and turning fuzzy clinical workflows into fast-shipped, observable features.

Senior Software Engineer, Platform | $160k-190k: Stack - Python (FastAPI/Django/Flask), React, PostgreSQL, and AWS to own platform architecture and IC delivery on a small team while mentoring engineers and setting the quality bar across a fast-moving healthcare codebase.

Requirements for all roles: 5+ YoE | Startup experience | Auth to work in US

See our website for details on each: https://www.ollihomehealth.ai/careers

I've decided to no longer post here after the incredible amount of spam I started receiving, both in terms of direct email submissions as well as unqualified and outright fraudulent applications to my application tracking system.

By fraudulent I mean: fake resumes, names stolen from real developers who work at well-known companies but either don't have a linkedin/portfolio or do have a linkedin/portfolio without a profile picture. So easily impersonated by a scammer.

It is a real shame, but this thread is now being scraped by plenty of other sites and bad actors.

Inbound hiring for remote teams is basically cooked at this point, signal is completely hidden in the noise. Curious if anyone else has had this experience or if it's just me?

We The Flywheel | Remote (Worldwide) / Ho Chi Minh City (Hybrid) | Part-time | https://wetheflywheel.com

We’re a global media network, digital consultancy, and product studio helping companies grow through technology and distribution at scale.

Now hiring:

Brand Strategy Director (Leadership Role, Remote, Worldwide)
https://wetheflywheel.com/en/careers/brand-strategy-director...

AI-Native Tech & Growth Director (Leadership Role, Remote, Worldwide)
https://wetheflywheel.com/en/careers/tech-growth-director/

Brand Visibility Lead (Remote, Worldwide)
https://wetheflywheel.com/en/careers/brand-visibility-lead/

Entry-Level Growth Marketer — Next-Gen & AI (Hybrid Role, Ho Chi Minh City-based)
https://wetheflywheel.com/en/careers/growth-marketer-saigon/

Matcha | REMOTE (US / Canada / Europe / UK / LATAM) | Full-time | https://matcha.fm

Repeat founder building something new and putting together a founding team.

This high ownership, high equity, ideally for people with prior startup experience or previous founder / founding team:

AI Engineer (ML/data) - https://matcha.fm/apply/ai

Backend Engineer — https://matcha.fm/apply/be

Full-Stack / Frontend Engineer — https://matcha.fm/apply/fse

Design — https://matcha.fm/apply/design

Product — https://matcha.fm/apply/product

Growth / GTM / Marketing — https://matcha.fm/apply/marketing

Account executive / sales — https://matcha.fm/apply/sales

Customer Support - https://matcha.fm/apply/support

RhythmScience | QA Engineer (Automation + Functional) | REMOTE (US, West Coast hours) | Full-time | $110k + equity

RhythmScience builds clinical-grade remote monitoring software for cardiac care. Used by cardiology practices and health systems across the US.

We're hiring a dedicated QA hire to own software quality hands-on:

- Build and maintain automated end-to-end tests (Playwright) and integrate them into CI/CD
- Run functional and regression testing across web and mobile
- Partner directly with product and engineering to develop test plans for new features. You'll be in the room early, not handed a spec at the end
- Help shape release readiness and quality gates as we grow

What we're looking for:

- 3+ years in software QA, with real automation experience (Playwright or equivalent)
- Comfortable writing test plans from product requirements and owning them through release
- Pragmatic in a fast-moving startup. You build the process, not just follow it
- US-based with solid West Coast (PT) overlap for working with product/eng
- Healthcare/HIPAA or API/EHR-integration testing experience a plus (not required)

$110k base + meaningful early equity, full benefits, remote-first.

Apply: https://rhythmscience.breezy.hr/p/5d8744211917

Conservation Metrics | Lead Data Platform Engineer | REMOTE (US)

Indigenous People around the world are working tirelessly to protect and manage their territories under mounting external threats. Conservation Metrics is a small, mission-driven company co-creating an open-source data platform designed to support territorial monitoring and Indigenous data sovereignty. It combines remote sensing products (maps, alerts, and change detection), mobile data collection tools, secure data warehousing, LLM-assisted analysis tools, and governed data access to allow Indigenous communities to explore, analyze, and summarize their information.

Lead position: You will own architecture and data infrastructure to support Indigenous data sovereignty and secure collaboration. We are looking for someone who can work through hard technical trade-offs and commit. In addition, Leads at Conservation Metrics are hands-on, writing production code and reviewing PRs to stay close to the system.

Tech: PostgreSQL, CapRover (Docker Swarm), Identity Systems (Auth0) on self-hosted, single-VM stacks. Data Sovereignty & Governance are big here.

See link for example 1st year projects and how to apply: https://conservationmetrics.com/careers/lead-data-platform-e...

Odyssey | Sr. Security Engineer | Full-time | Remote (US) or NYC

Odyssey is building the leading financial technology platform for school choice. We help families access funding for tuition, tutors, curriculum, software, and enrichment programs—empowering them with greater educational opportunities.

We’re well-funded, backed by top investors including Andreessen Horowitz (a16z), and we are rapidly scaling.

As Odyssey's first Security Engineer, you'll have full ownership of our security posture — shaping strategy, building programs from the ground up, and driving best practices across our entire technology stack and product suite. This is a high-impact, high-visibility role where your decisions will directly influence how we protect our customers, vendors, and employees.

You'll partner closely with cross-functional teams to embed security into everything we build and ship, champion solutions to emerging security challenges, and ensure we stay ahead of an evolving threat landscape. You're someone who embraces AI tools to work smarter — whether that's accelerating threat detection, streamlining vulnerability analysis, or improving how we respond to incidents.

https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/odyssey

Neuro Health Collective | Washington DC Metro or REMOTE (US) | FOUNDING Employee, EQUITY-HEAVY
We're a Public Benefit Corporation building the open infrastructure for neurological data. Our compression technology is in production at leading research and clinical neurology institutions today. We're hiring a founding Cloud/AI Chief Architect, the person who designs the cloud, security, and AI workload layer that comes next.
What you'd own: cloud architecture, security model, AI workload design, and the first engineering hires when funding lands. The architecture decisions made now will shape how AI shows up in neurology for the next decade.
Looking for: hands-on within the last two years (you can show what you've built in the last six months). Shipped HIPAA-compliant architecture at scale, or equivalent depth in financial services, defense, or government. You think in threat models, design for crypto-agile architecture and post-quantum migration, and have an opinion on AI-era attack surfaces.
Comp: equity-heavy founding role with cash that scales as funding comes in. We're optimizing for upside, ownership, and mission.
More on us: neurohealthcollective.com
Apply: hiring@neurohealthcollective.com. Send us your resume and tell us about something you've built that you're proud of!

Catalyst·Wayfare AI | Lead AI Engineer + Agent Builder + Platform Engineer | Remote (US) | Full-time / Part-time / Contract | https://catalystwayfare.ai/careers

AI transformation firm shipping production AI systems for mid-market enterprises in regulated and technical domains — finance, energy, industrials, healthcare. We do not stop at PowerPoint AI strategy. We ship working systems alongside our clients' engineering teams. Small teams, deep expertise, real autonomy on real work.

Hiring:

[1] Lead AI Engineer, Agentic Systems — Embedded technical lead on a multi-agent orchestration build for one of the country's leading power engineering firms. Architect the engine; design the patterns we replicate at the next client. 6+ yrs eng, 2+ shipping LLM/agentic systems in production. Strong Python; opinions on agent frameworks. Monthly US travel to one major metro. https://catalystwayfare.ai/jd-lead

[2] AI Engineer, Agent Builder — Hands-on builder embedded on the same engagement. End-to-end ownership of individual capability agents — prompts, tools, retrieval, evals, monitoring. 3–5 yrs strong Python, real production LLM API experience, shipped at least one agent system end-to-end. 1099 contract, ~30–40 hrs/wk. Occasional US travel. https://catalystwayfare.ai/jd-builder

[3]Platform Manager (Engineering), Trust.ML — Founding platform engineer on our productized governance, evaluation, and deployment surface. Own the roadmap, write the code, set the operational posture (SLOs, on-call, audit). 5+ yrs, prior engineer-in-charge experience. Quarterly US travel. Compensation competitive with senior platform roles at venture-funded AI infrastructure companies; equity reflects the founding nature of the seat. https://catalystwayfare.ai/jd-platform

Stack: Claude + OpenAI + Gemini + Perplexity APIs in production, open-source models when the math points there. Cursor and Claude Code daily. Vercel, Neon, Sentry. Evals as first-class artifacts.

Apply: per each JD's instructions, to talent+hn@cwai.co. Short cover note matters more than a resume.

Amodo Design (amododesign.com) | Sheffield/London, UK | Software Engineer | Full-time | Onsite or Hybrid

We are hiring software engineers who enjoy solving important real-world problems and working close to hardware; who learn new domains quickly and prefer practical solutions over over-engineered systems or unnecessary complexity. You’ll work on the projects best suited for you. Projects range widely, and include:

Scientific tools

Automation & robotics (Linux & ROS level)

Embedded C/C++ (typically owned by dedicated firmware engineers, but software engineers are welcome to learn!)

Linux, CUDA, Server engineering for our AI safety, security, and verification work

Custom simulation software (usually python)

Data analysis pipelines (python)

Organisational tooling (Typescript, react, postgres, etc.)

Structure: Small teams of software, mechanical, electronics, and firmware engineers build end-to-end systems, typically shipping within a few months.

Apply: https://amododesign.com/career

Forward Deployed Engineer - backend - python | REMOTE (UTC -3 to +3) | Full time

Small stealth team in the property management space, building AI agents that run real operations, where agents and humans work as one team rather than as user and tool. Funded, profitable, fully remote, competitive comp.

We want a senior backend engineer to own a client facing use case end to end: build the backend tools and workflows our agents call, handle the jurisdiction and client specific extensions, and talk to the client directly. Pull requirements, explain the tradeoffs, own the relationship. Take messy real world problems, turn them into something agents can actually use, then keep it alive in production.

You're probably a fit if:

- you've shipped serious backend systems in production

- you can hold your own on a customer call

- you've run LLM agents in production, or you'll ramp fast: tool calling, evals, knowing when a plain deterministic tool beats a model call

Bonus, not required: containers and CI/CD, RBAC and auditing, LangChain and LangGraph, prior customer facing or operator background.

We care more about what you've built and can build than a checklist, so skip the skills inventory and tell us about something hard you shipped.

Apply: email mercedes@kinxshn.com with "HN - Forward Deployed Engineer" in the subject , your CV attached and salary expectation.

Laminar Engineering | Full-Stack CV/ML Systems Engineer | Contract | REMOTE

Laminar Engineering builds real-time computer vision systems for airborne detection and tracking of drones, combining multispectral sensing and edge inference. We’re delivering this for a client, and we’re looking for a versatile engineer to join the R&D effort. This is a role for someone who thrives with autonomy when given a clear end state. More details to be shared with the right candidates.

The role spans the whole pipeline, from data to deployed system: CV/ML on NVIDIA edge devices (Jetson / TensorRT / DeepStream), real-time video processing and multi-object tracking, camera/gimbal control, dataset collection and curation, model training and evaluation, backend infrastructure and APIs, and operator-facing dashboards. You’d own deployed vision systems end to end, including diagnosing and fixing real-world failures in live video.

Strong fit: applied CV and perception, including tracking, real-time pipelines, and NVIDIA edge deployment, plus strong Python and comfort across the stack. Relevant experience: PyTorch, TensorRT/ONNX, DeepStream/GStreamer, embedded Linux, and frontend work for operator tooling.

Remote contract, flexible hours, some overlap with UTC-05 preferred.

Email hiring@laminr.co and mention HN.

Location: India

Remote: Yes

Willing to relocate: Yes

Technologies: Python, Django, AWS (EC2, EKS, VPC), Docker, Kubernetes, GitHub Actions CI/CD, SQL

Résumé/CV: https://omtiwari.tech/resume.html | https://www.linkedin.com/in/tiwariom/ | https://github.com/omtiwari17

Email: work.om.tiwari@gmail.com

Recent 2026 Computer Science Graduate and Backend/Cloud Engineer focused on secure architecture and deployment automation.

* Cloud & CI/CD: Engineered GitHub Actions pipelines to deploy Dockerized apps to AWS EKS clusters with zero-downtime rolling updates.

* Backend Systems: Built secure Python/Django portals utilizing strict Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) to protect sensitive data workflows.

* Real-Time Data: Developed live analytics dashboards featuring smart API polling and custom algorithms for dynamic probability calculations.

* Certifications: AWS Academy Cloud Architecting & Foundations (AWS); DevOps Foundation, Generative AI, and Agentic AI (Datagami x NASSCOM x IBM).

APMHelp.com / PM-in-a-box.org || AI native growth marketer | Remote | Contract/Full-time/part-time

We're an outsourced accounting firm specializing in property management (appfolio, buildium, rentvine) that's building an open source ai harness/orchestrator for property managers.

$7M ARR, cash flow positive, looking to re-envision marketing/growth ai native.

email taylor at the apmhelp domain or comment and i'll reach out. =)

IDEXX | Senior Application Security Analyst | REMOTE (US/NL) | Full-time
IDEXX | Cloud Security Architect | REMOTE (US/NL) | Full-time

IDEXX is a global leader in veterinary diagnostics and water testing, helping pet owners worldwide keep their companion animals healthy and happy, and to ensure safe drinking water for billions.

We're seeking a highly skilled and experienced Senior Application Security Engineer to join our product security team:
https://careers.idexx.com/us/en/job/J-053102/Senior-Applicat...

We're also hiring a Cloud Security Architect:
https://careers.idexx.com/us/en/job/J-053103/Cloud-Security-...

At IDEXX you will play a pivotal role in supporting and promoting our product security strategy. Your mission: safeguard the integrity of our products throughout their lifecycle. You'll partner with delivery teams to integrate security practices and activities into their pipelines. With your expertise, we'll optimize security workloads, testing tools, foster collaboration with development teams, and champion secure development practices across the organization.

Tell 'em you found out via HN!

SecureBio Detection | Senior infrastructure engineer; [senior] software engineer (high-performance pipelines)

Cambridge, MA, USA (metro Boston) | ONSITE strongly preferred; REMOTE (US east coast) possible for exceptional candidates

SecureBio is a nonprofit working to protect the world from catastrophic pandemics. We operate the world’s largest metagenomic biosurveillance network, which performs daily sequencing of wastewater samples and nasal swabs to screen for emerging pathogens. Our computational team develops detection pipelines responsible for rapid processing of deep sequencing data in order to flag potential threats.

I'm the hiring manager for two roles:

- Senior infrastructure engineer, to own cloud infra, devops, CI/CD, AWS security, etc. https://securebio.org/careers/2026-cloud-infra-engineer/

- [Senior] software engineer focused on high performance data pipelines. https://securebio.org/careers/2026-software-engineer-pipelin...

Prior experience with biology or bioinformatics is not required. If you're interested, please apply via the relevant job posting. Feel free to drop me a line with questions; email is in my profile.

https://securebio.org/careers/

FeedbackPulse | HR/PeopleOps Specialist | Remote (SEA-based) | Full-time | https://feedbackpulse.com

Mission: Build better culture & growth systems for companies that don’t have them. Then make them stick.

Role: Somewhere between product, customer success, and HR consulting. You won’t “manage HR internally.” You will operate as an embedded advisor across multiple companies, helping them design, run, and improve their people programs using our platform and AI tooling.

Company: We’re a SaaS company in the employee engagement space. Our customers are Heads of People, HRBPs, and founders who want to run better 360 reviews, engagement surveys, and feedback systems-but don’t have the time or expertise to do it properly. FeedbackPulse makes employee engagement simple with tools for creating meaningful surveys, gathering staff feedback, and building a better workplace culture. Our platform offers engagement surveys, performance reviews, and 360° feedback solutions that help companies address high turnover rates and disengaged workforces.

You: HR/PeopleOps experience, using AI tools like Claude Cowork daily, clear writing skills, self-directed, and results-oriented.

Our culture: Direct communication, focused deep work, clear work-life boundaries, and sustainable growth as a bootstrapped company.

Mention you are from HN in your application message.

Sounds interesting? Apply here: https://feedbackpulse.com/hr-specialist-with-ai-skills-remot...

Coder | https://coder.com/ | Multiple roles | Multiple locations | Full-time

Coder is an AI software development company leading the future of autonomous coding. We empower teams to build software faster, more securely, and at scale through the collaboration of AI coding agents and human developers. Our mission is to make agentic AI a safe, trusted, and integral part of every software development lifecycle.

Coder’s self-hosted Agentic Development Environment (ADE) is the foundation for deploying agentic AI in the enterprise. It provides a secure, standardized, and governed workspace to deploy autonomous coding agents alongside human developers, accelerating innovation while maintaining control and compliance. Coder's isolated, policy-driven environments improve productivity, cut cloud costs, and reduce data risks. Developers transition to AI at their own pace using their own tools. Platform and security teams can govern, audit, and manage a great developer experience at scale.

Check out our OSS product with 100k+ stars on GitHub! https://github.com/coder

All positions are fully remote in the countries listed unless otherwise specified.

[1] Senior Software Engineer - US/Canada

[2] Software Engineer (AI Governance) - UK/Ireland/Poland

[3] Security Engineer (Product) - UK/Ireland/Poland

[4] Security Engineer (Infrastructure) - US/Canada

[5] Senior Security Engineer (IT) - UK/Ireland/Poland

[6] Developer Relations Engineer - US

[7] Forward Deployed Engineering Manager - US

[8] Platform Engineering Lead - UK/Ireland/Poland

And more! Apply here + job descriptions, salary bands: https://coder.com/careers?utm_source=O2n5Ew72WD

Not all of our jobs are listed here. Please note that you must submit an application to be considered for any of our positions. If you have any questions, please reach out to careers@coder.com.

Subtle Medical | North America | Full Time | Remote | https://subtlemedical.com/

Subtle Medical is a global leader in AI-powered medical imaging, using deep learning to enable faster, safer, and smarter scans. Our technology helps healthcare providers deliver high-quality imaging more efficiently—reducing scan times, improving image quality, and expanding access to care without the need for new hardware.

We are on a mission to transform the imaging experience for both providers and patients. By building responsible AI solutions that integrate seamlessly into existing workflows, we help radiology teams operate more efficiently while improving the patient experience—especially for those who struggle with long or difficult exams. Our vision is a world where every patient has access to timely diagnosis, high-quality care, and better health outcomes.

Subtle Medical offers a robust, multi-modality portfolio across MRI, PET, and CT, and continues to invest heavily in research and development. Our team includes leading radiologists, scientists, and engineers from top institutions such as Stanford, Harvard, and MIT, as well as industry veterans from GE, Philips, and Siemens.

Recognized by TIME as one of the World’s Top HealthTech Companies (2025) and named to CB Insights’ GenAI 50, Digital Health 150, and AI 100, Subtle Medical is helping shape the future of medical imaging. Today, our solutions are deployed on over 1,000 scanners worldwide, supporting hospitals and imaging centers in delivering faster scans, improved diagnostic quality, and better patient care.

We are hiring:

Senior Platform Engineer: https://subtlemedical.com/careers/senior-platform-engineer/

Machine Learning Software Engineer: https://subtlemedical.com/careers/machine-learning-software-...

Pango | Senior Software Engineer - Full Stack, Technical Lead / Software Engineer | On-site (hybrid) in Stockholm, Sweden (Visa Sponsorship possible) | Full time
Pango is building the world's first Agentic Operating System for e-commerce logistics. Our vision is to create the AI e-commerce employee of the future. We are forming our core team in Stockholm and are looking for exceptional engineers.

You are a good fit if:

* You are comfortable maintaining, expanding and operating a substantial chunk of a B2B SaaS platform with a high sense of ownership.

* You are happy to take on work that in a large company is divided into multiple roles, and execute it all at an excellent level.

* You are unafraid of any technology. If we need a desktop app and you haven't done one before, you will study the documentation of Electron.js and build one. If a model for predicting delivery times is needed, you will do a literature review to find the right architecture and train one.

* You have strong proficiency in any backend language or platform, with a strong willingness to dive deep into PHP/Laravel OR strong proficiency in JS/React.

* E-commerce (Shopify, Magento, other platforms, shipping carrier integrations) experience is a plus.

* Extra points if you write the initial email - however short - using your own words.

You will take a key role in shaping the product and company, with ability to make an impact and advance career limited only by your aptitude and interest.

Reach out to steve@pango.ai if you are interested or have any questions. We review applications immediately and move quickly.

Relevant Healthcare | Software Engineers (multiple levels) | Remote (US/Canada) | Full-time

Relevant builds a data platform that helps safety-net healthcare providers deliver better care using data from their electronic health records. Our customers are non-profit clinics called Community Health Centers. You can read more about them, us, and the roles on our jobs page: https://relevant.healthcare/jobs/

We're a small team (~25 overall). We're bootstrapped (no external capital whatsoever, VC or otherwise) and profitable. We've got a modern tech stack (Rails, Typescript, React, GraphQL, d3) and a healthy approach to both tech debt and work/life balance… and we’re also a very nice group of people that get to work on interesting problems for some of the few unimpeachably good actors in healthcare!

Forecasting Research Institute (FRI) | Data Engineer | REMOTE | Full-time

We're a ~20-person nonprofit doing forecasting research on high-stakes problems, including AI progress, biosecurity, and nuclear risk. We have dozens of active projects that generate forecasting data from surveys, expert panels, and AI systems.

We're looking for our first dedicated data engineer. You'd start alongside an external vendor extending an existing warehouse, then take full ownership. Concretely, the work would involve building ELT pipelines from survey platforms and external sources into a cloud warehouse, maintaining a dimensional model, collaborating with analysts, and overseeing orchestration & monitoring.

You have solid Python + ETL/ELT, strong SQL and dimensional modeling, cloud warehouse experience. Nice to have: dbt/Airflow/Dagster, prior SWE work, interest in forecasting. Apply even if you don't tick every box!

Conditions:

- 100% Remote (worldwide) / Remote (global)

- 30 days PTO, health insurance contribution

- $75k–$130k, depending on experience

- 3 team retreats/year

Hiring process: short work test → paid 10-hour test → a few interviews.

Apply at https://forecastingresearch.org/careers/data-engineer

Uber | https://www.uber.com/ai-solutions | Senior Product Engineer | Full Time | Amsterdam, The Netherlands | Hybrid

We’re building a complex data labeling platform for AV and robotics teams working with multi-sensor data: images, point clouds, sequential data, and 3D scenes.

We’re hiring a Senior Product Engineer to help us ship the core web product faster and improve the quality of customer-facing labeling workflows.

Tech stack: Vue/React, TypeScript, Three.js/WebGL/WebGPU, TinyBase, Django.

You can help us solve problems like:
- Making 2D and 3D annotation workflows faster, more precise, and easier to use
- Designing point cloud tiling, autosave, undo/redo, review, filtering, and issue-tracking workflows that hold up under real labeling operations
- Improving performance where milliseconds matter: rendering, local state updates, preloading, and geometric operations
- Shaping API contracts, data models, permissions, background jobs, and operational tooling as the platform scales

This is a senior role with high ownership on a small team. To apply, please reach out to bert@segments.ai (we recently got acquired by Uber) with a resume and mention HN in your application.

Seeq | https://seeq.com | Staff Software Engineer (Frontend, Backend, Platform) | REMOTE (Some crossover w/ PST required) | Full-time | $170k + annual cash bonus + equity. Salary range for US-based; local adjustments for other countries.

Seeq creates cutting-edge data analytics software for industrial process data, serving sectors like pharmaceuticals, energy, and manufacturing. Our core product is a robust calculation engine capable of executing advanced math and machine learning algorithms on streaming time-series data. By leveraging generative AI, we enhance usability and accelerate outcomes for our users.

We've built up a great remote culture (e.g. annual meetups, home office allowance, generous PTO, a remote office app we created to collaborate) and a dev team that enjoys tackling hard problems that make a difference for our customers (dev blog for more: https://geeq.seeq.com/).

Be sure to mention that you came from Hacker News in your application!

Staff Full Stack Software Engineer (JVM, React, Postgres): https://apply.workable.com/seeq/j/CDBF1AE73C/

Staff Frontend Design Systems Engineer (React, Tailwind, UX): https://apply.workable.com/seeq/j/B3E0E9645D/

Staff Software Engineer - Developer Experience (Gradle, Kubernetes, Devex): https://apply.workable.com/seeq/j/A966C8897D/

Staff Software Engineer - Platform (Kubernetes, Terraform, Grafana): https://apply.workable.com/seeq/j/FD4C7FD4F3/

Neurotone.ai || Remote (Americas East / Western Europe) || Full-time || neurotone.com

We build AI-assisted auditory training for people with hearing loss. Our product is live, in clinics, and growing internationally.

Backend Engineer: Postgres-heavy work on Supabase: PL/pgSQL functions, pgmq queues, Deno edge functions, billing and cron systems. You like databases enough to enjoy writing triggers and RLS policies, and you want to own systems end-to-end rather than just ship tickets.

QA Specialist: Manual testing of our iOS/Android app and web tools, working alongside our head of QA on a clinical product where data quality, platform stability, and accessibility are critical to our mission.

Note: Candidates must be in time zones no further west than EST; Western Europe is fine.

If interested, contact travis AT neurotone.com. Join us in making a difference!

Peachtree Infrastructure | Full Stack Dev, Data Engineer, Salesforce Admin/Dev | REMOTE (US)
Series A renewable-energy developer (solar, storage, efficiency, grid services) building the software and data backbone for our energy assets. Small team, lots of ownership. Stack: Python/Flask, Node, Svelte, GCP (Cloud Run, BigQuery, Cloud SQL/AlloyDB), Salesforce. US (CO, GA a plus), full remote.

- Full Stack Dev (mid, 4-7 yrs) - $120k-$145k Features end-to-end across Python/Node + Svelte on GCP, SQL/Postgres, BigQuery, REST, Cloud Run

- Data Engineer / Data-focused Full Stack (5+ yrs) - $150k-$180k Own our IoT data platform: ingestion into BigQuery (batch + near-real-time), time-series modeling, operational Postgres, full stack interfaces. Strong BigQuery + SQL, ETL/ELT

- Salesforce Admin/Dev (mid) - $110k-$140k, Own org health + build real solutions (Flows, Apex, LWC, custom objects, integrations) for our deal lifecycle & project management, Platform Dev I a plus

W-2, full benefits, Apply: hiring@peachtreeinfra.com

Branch3D | Senior Developer (Full-stack), 3D Design engineer, Growth lead | Vancouver (REMOTE, North America / South America) | Full-time

Branch is taking on real-time structural design and analysis. Design software for Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (AEC) has been archaic for too long, and we're building a novel 3d structural modeling and design tool with real-time design feedback and performance as a focus. We're taking ambitious technical swings! Our team is less than 10, we're incubated within a larger structural engineering firm and leveraging real project expertise. We're in pilot programs with key customers right now, and hiring to scale out to a larger audience. Your ideas will help shape the future of how our product evolves, regardless of role.

We're looking for folks with deep technical experience for developer roles (AEC background not required), or deep industry experience for the GTM side of things. In particular, our design engineer role focuses on a mix of 3d design & front-end experience, with a focus on quality.

Postings with more details at https://www.branch3d.com/careers.

If Branch sounds like your jam, apply via email - dcascaval@branch3d.com, HN in the subject line. Include a resume, any open source or portfolio projects if applicable, and a couple sentences of relevant experience.

Puls Security | Lead Software Engineer (Distributed Systems / Security) — strong Juniors also welcome | Full-time | REMOTE (within Germany)

We are a mid-sized company based in Germany. We build secure distributed systems from the ground up.

What we do:

- Building services in Go (and Rust down the road) in an R&D-oriented team

- Designing and implementing distributed systems in a security context

Who we're looking for:
Our priority is a lead engineer, but we'll happily take strong juniors if the mindset is right. The key thing: we're not looking for a pure coder, but for someone who enjoys looking at a problem architecturally as well.

- Deep expertise in a technically demanding area. Classic fits: distributed systems, cryptography, networking. Equally welcome: compilers, OS internals, formal verification, database internals — or any other field where you have real depth.

- Solid engineering skills in Go, Python and/or Rust

- German & English, C1 minimum

The role is fully remote within Germany, with very little travel required.

Apply: karriere@puls-security.de

Twindo (Formerly Canvas; The Spatial Computing Company) | Full-time | Remote

At Twindo, we’re working on spatial computing - using computer vision to 3D reconstruct and understand your surroundings so that software can operate over real-world spaces.

Twindo brings together everything that professionals need to understand the spaces they design, build, and manage, without extra site visits or second-guessing. With a quick scan or plan upload, any space becomes structured, accurate, design-ready data your whole team can actually use.

Full Stack Engineer (Latin America Remote)
Backend Engineer (Latin America Remote)

For detailed information check out https://www.twindo.com/careers/

Keywords: 3D, computer vision, photogrammetry, geomatics, SLAM, CAD, iOS, Python, Django

Espresso AI | Staff ML, Staff Infra, FDE | Brooklyn or San Francisco | Full time
We're using LLMs to build neural optimizers, neural scheduling systems, and neural workload tuners. (If you're ex-Google, you can think of it like Borg powered by LLMs.)

Today we use ML to make data warehouses and spark jobs more efficient. We're hiring staff ML engineers to train models that can understand how much compute a job needs, how it scales to larger machines, whether a machine can run more jobs, and so on; and staff infra engineers to take those models and deploy them on real-world production systems.

We're also looking for FDEs who can help us talk to users and run pilots. This is a pretty technical role (you need to be able to do data analysis and debug in prod) that's also user-facing - it should be a good fit for a former (or future) technical founder.

If this sounds cool, please email me: alexis [at] espresso [dot] ai

Trax | Analytics Engineer | REMOTE CST (Philippines, Costa Rica, US) | Full-time Contract

We're hiring an Analytics Engineer to help power our future.  This is a really greenfield project where we need to define the data models that fuel all reporting, analytics, and ML/AI going forward. We do 'freight audit' - we save our clients money by making sure all their logistics spend is correct and as agreed.

At Trax, our data infrastructure is in the middle of a real transformation. We're building the data foundation that will power our next wave of AI features, and we need someone who can own that work end-to-end. This isn't a "run queries and make charts" role.

You'll be:

- Designing and maintaining data marts in dbt + Snowflake

- Building customer-facing dashboards that integrate into our platform

- Bridging the gap between engineering, business ops, and client teams

- Running ad-hoc analyses that drive real decisions

- Shaping how our data platform evolves alongside our AI/ML capabilities

What matters most to us:

- Deep data modeling knowledge (domain logic, not just syntax)

- Advanced SQL; dbt and Snowflake experience is a big bonus

- Strong communicator who translates between technical and non-technical worlds

- A learning mindset; genuinely non-negotiable for us

We're a small, close team. You won't disappear into a large org. You'll work directly with leadership, partner with Solutions and Sales, and have a real voice in how we build.  If you thrive on ownership, are energized by complexity, and want to see the direct impact of your work, let's talk! My email and linkedIn are in my profile.

Husense | https://husense.io | Radar AI Engineer | The Hague, NL | ONSITE (80%, 1 flexible day/week) | Full-time

We build radar + ML for smart cities, sports analytics, smart buildings, and defense perception. Our sensors see what cameras can't — 24/7, through walls/weather/crowds, with no faces and no audio. Customers include the Dutch police, Gemeente Den Haag, Gemeente Amsterdam, KLM, Koninklijke Marechaussee. TU Delft partner.

Hiring our first Radar AI Engineer to own the full pipeline end-to-end: raw FMCW/MIMO signal in, deployed embedded model out (ONNX, TensorRT, edge TPUs). Real hardware. Real customers. Privacy-first by design.

Looking for: MSc/PhD in ML / EE / signal processing; strong PyTorch + Python; embedded deployment experience; Rust or C/C++ a plus. EU-based or NL-visa-eligible (we sponsor highly-skilled-migrant + 30%-ruling for the right person).

Process: first call in 5 days, decision in 3 weeks. Founder-led, no multi-month limbo.

Apply: https://husense.odoo.com/jobs/radar-ai-engineer-6
or email radar-ai-engineer@mail.husense.io with the one project you're proudest of.

PrairieLearn (Remote US) — Full-Stack Software Engineer — TypeScript / Postgres / React / AI

PrairieLearn (https://www.prairielearn.com) is an open-source assessment platform used by universities across the US (Berkeley, Princeton, Michigan, Illinois, and others). We power mastery-based learning and large-scale exams.

We’re a small, profitable, early-stage company (bootstrapped, no VC) that is growing quickly. Our users love us and we have very high retention and rapid spread through word of mouth. As an early-stage hire, you’ll work across the stack and enjoy meaningful ownership from day one.

Tech we use: Node.js / TypeScript backend, Postgres, AWS, React. We’re also developing AI tooling, including building LLM agents to help instructors create content and using vision-language models to help grade student work. PrairieLearn is open core: https://github.com/PrairieLearn/PrairieLearn

Details:

- Location: Remote (US only)

- Salary: $100k-$140k depending on experience

- Benefits: Stock options (0.5% - 1.5%), unlimited PTO, flexible hours

- Role: Full-time. (We’re not able to sponsor visas at this time.)

Apply at https://www.prairielearn.com/jobs-ashby?ashby_jid=ee6fdbc3-1...

Wand | Senior Windows C++ Engineer | REMOTE (US Eastern timezone overlap required) | Full-time

Wand (40M+ gamers) builds the augmentation and intelligence layer for PC gaming — real-time game-state reading powering a unified ecosystem across desktop, web, and native in-game overlays. Contextual help, interactive maps, and video clipping delivered exactly when a player needs it, without alt-tabbing out of the game.

We're hiring a senior IC to own meaningful parts of the native infrastructure underneath all of that. This is platform-team work at the seam between Windows, third-party game engines, and our product. You'll make architecture calls the rest of engineering lives with for years, and you'll measure success by what other teams shipped on top of your foundation — not by what you personally wrote. Recently shipped: a plugin system for safe in-process extensions; current work includes a Lua scripting layer on top of it.

What we're looking for:
- 7+ years C++, meaningful time on tools/engines/platform systems where your users were other engineers
- Deep Windows native: Win32/64, DLL lifecycles, hooking, IPC, process/thread management, WinDbg/Process Monitor
- Strong concurrent programming — you spot races and ordering bugs in review without a checklist
- Plugin/extensibility experience: you've designed an interface someone else built on, and lived with the result
- Outcome-oriented, low-ego

Bonus: Unreal/Unity internals, full-stack TS/Electron down to C++, scripting/SDK layer (Lua/AngelScript/DSL), OBS or video capture internals, gRPC/Protobuf/FlatBuffers.

Fully remote, competitive comp + equity.

Apply: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/wand?utm_source=kY1r05Q4Go

Servicing Copilot | Senior Full-Stack Contractor | REMOTE (EST overlap required) | $5k paid bake-off → ~6 month contract | CAD $130-180/hr

I'm building an AI-native operations tool for private mortgage lenders. MVP targets two workflows that eat servicing staff time: NSF collections follow-up and renewal management. I run a Canadian private lender as my day job, so the product is built against a real shop with real data and real users. Self-funded. No VCs, no board.

The data model is locked (20 tables, multi-tenant by lender_id, idempotent CSV imports, append-only event log). Wireframes in progress. Hiring one engineer for the full ~6-month build via a paid bake-off: $5k flat for ~1 week of work, 2-3 candidates in parallel, winner takes the engagement. Losing candidates get paid in full and keep their work.

Trial scope: CSV loan tape import with idempotent upsert + audit, one case detail screen, one LLM call classifying a borrower email reply with structured output, activity log driven by case events. Stack is contractor's choice — Postgres required, Next.js + TS or Python + React expected.

Looking for senior generalists with real production LLM experience (structured outputs, evals, failure modes — not side-project tier) and strong relational data modeling judgment. Opinions you'll defend in writing.

Email: info@readifinancial.com

with: one paragraph on why this interests you, 1-2 links to shipped work involving a real schema + LLM in production, your rate and availability, and one question about the project. No cover letters.

Search terms: postgres, multi-tenant, LLM, OpenAI, Anthropic, Next.js,

TypeScript, Python, fintech, vertical SaaS, founding engineer, contract, Canada

Runway | Multiple Engineering & Research roles | Remote (global) | Full-time

Runway is building AI to simulate the world — merging art and science. We're a team of researchers, engineers, artists, and designers shipping the models and infrastructure behind a new generation of creative tools.

We're hiring across a lot of teams right now (engineering, research, product, design — see the full list below), but a few we'd especially love to talk to you about:

  - Engineering Manager, API — https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/runway-ml/b5d136bb-4143-400b-914a-0ae7377ad8ed
  - MTS, Backend Engineer, API — https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/runway-ml/8489a08a-f0cf-4418-968c-c7c803d538bc
  - MTS, Research Engineer — https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/runway-ml/98e4b160-3bbe-4acd-b106-ad75ccc49675

Remote-friendly globally, with offices in NYC, SF, Seattle, London, Tel Aviv, and Tokyo. Full benefits (100% medical/dental/vision for US employees, unlimited PTO, parental leave, learning stipend).

Full list of open roles: https://runwayml.com/careers

FusionAuth | Principal Software Engineer, Senior Java Engineer - Cloud, Account Executive, Solutions Engineer | Varies between REMOTE (in USA, also in Europe but only for the account exec/solutions engineer positions) and ONSITE in Denver, CO, USA, details in each job desc | Salary ranges for the Principal Software Engineer it is 225k-270k, but the Euro positions don't have them :(

At FusionAuth, our mission is to make authentication and authorization simple and secure for every developer building web and mobile applications. We want devs to stop worrying about auth and focus on building something awesome.

There are a lot of companies in the auth space, but we feel like we have something special:

* a relatively unique deployment model (self-host on-prem, run in your cloud or let us operate it for you in ours)

* A well designed API first approach; one customer compared our APIs to petrichor

* a mature product (the code base is nine+ years old and we've found and fixed a lot of the sharp edges around core login use cases; but don't worry, there are plenty more features to add)

* a full featured free-as-in-beer version which makes the sales cycle easier; prospects often come in having prototyped an integration

Our core software is commercial. We open source much of our supporting infrastructure. Technologies and standards that you will work with: modern Java, PostgreSQL, Docker, Kubernetes, MySQL, OAuth, SAML, OIDC.

Learn more, including benefits and salaries, and apply here: https://fusionauth.io/careers/ ( Click/tap the 'View open positions' orange button. )

Trace Labs | Remote (USA) | Full Time | https://tracelabs.ai/ Want to join a lean, ambitious, and fast growing startup? Trace is building the data infrastructure for physical AI. Robotics and embodied AI are bottlenecked by real-world data. We’re building the platform that turns real-world human work into structured training datasets for robotics and foundation model labs. We’re hiring engineers to help build the core product from end to end.
Small, senior team. Fully remote. Experienced founders with a successful exit. Clear communicators. High trust, high bar.

Open Roles

- Full Stack Engineer: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/tracelabs/963005ce-f4f1-4d54-957d-1...

- Computer Vision Engineer: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/tracelabs/774fbd47-20ce-4665-9bdb-5...

What We Offer

- Autonomy, impact, and ownership. As an early employee you’ll shape the product direction and company values.

- Competitive salary and significant equity in a fast growing, early stage startup.

- Remote employment - work where you want, when you want.

- Generous vacation policy - take time whenever you need to recharge. Building a lasting company is a marathon, not a sprint.

DrSwarm | Founding Engineer (Full-Stack) | REMOTE (US or LATAM; must overlap with US Pacific hours) | Full-time or Contract to Full-time

DrSwarm is building AI-driven workflow automation for healthcare clinics / health systems (scheduling, RCM/billing workflows, patient ops). This is a true 0→1 role: ship fast, talk to customers, own systems end-to-end.

You will: - Build product end-to-end (Next.js + Django) - Ship integrations + workflow automation (APIs, webhooks, background jobs, queues) - Own reliability (logs/metrics, retries, failure modes) and pragmatic security (HIPAA-aware)

Stack: Next.js, React/TypeScript, Django/Python, Postgres, Celery/Redis, Docker, AWS/DigitalOcean, LLM APIs.

Looking for: Strong full-stack builder.  Good to work with.  Can talk to customers / users / salespeople.  Uses AI to generate 90%+ of their code, interested in AI + Healthcare.

Comp: Market with mix of base + bonus + meaningful equity
Process: 30m intro → 60m technical/product deep dive → short paid work trial → references. I (founder) read every email and reply.

Contact: jobs@drswarm.com (include “HN Founding Engineer” in subject) + GitHub/LinkedIn + 2–3 projects you’re proud of.

MindFort AI (YC X25) | Backend Software Engineer, AI Researcher | Los Angeles, CA | Full-Time

I'm a founding engineer at MindFort (https://www.mindfort.ai). We build autonomous AI security agents that pen test your software before attackers do: finding, exploiting, and patching vulnerabilities. Backed by YC, Soma Capital, etc.

- Software Engineer (Backend + AI) | $150k–$250k + Equity: Architect and scale our agent systems from scratch. Python, Postgres, Docker, K8s, LangChain/LangGraph. Cybersecurity background a plus but not needed.

- AI Researcher | $150k–$250k + equity: Own the research behind how our agents reason, plan, and chain exploits. LLM fine-tuning, RL, eval design, multi-agent systems. Security or red-teaming background a plus.

Both roles include founding-level equity, 100% health coverage and unlimited PTO.

More Info + Apply At: https://www.ycombinator.com/companies/mindfort

PostHog | Full-Time | Product engineers, Technical CSMs, Forward deployed engineers | REMOTE (all remote) | Hiring GMT-8 to GMT+2 PostHog makes dev tools that help product engineers build successful products.

* we have a public handbook (posthog.com/handbook) if you want to learn how we work, pay and more in complete detail.

* we are growing through more autonomy and transparency not through process.

* we have a ton of scale and a bunch of super interesting technical problems to solve

* we're building 20 more products over the next couple of years, so you could end up building one of those

* public compensation calculator! see immediately what you'd get paid

* we're hiring: product engineers, clickhouse operations engineer, backend engineers, technical customer success managers, technical account managers, developer marketers, forward deployed engineers and onboarding engineers.

https://posthog.com/careers

Rerun | Remote | Stockholm, Sweden | Full-time

https://rerun.io/

Rerun is the data layer for Physical AI; robotics, autonomous systems, AR/VR, and other embodied ML. We give engineers a single unified layer for multi-rate, multimodal data: the open-source Rerun SDK (Rust, built with egui) for logging, querying, visualizing, and training, plus Rerun Hub for large-scale storage and streaming from object storage. Most of our core, performance-critical code is Rust.

This month we’re hiring for:

- Rust Backend Engineers 
- Software Engineer, Infrastructure 
- Dataframe SDK Engineers
- Robotics ML Engineers

Check all roles and apply here: https://rerun.io/careers

Zulip | Senior Backend/Infrastructure Engineer | REMOTE | Full-time | https://zulip.com/

Zulip is building the world’s best collaboration platform, and we’re committed to keeping it 100% open source. Zulip is the only modern team chat app designed for both live and asynchronous conversations. Our product serves as the communication hub for businesses, open-source projects, educators and communities around the world.

We’re looking for a senior backend/infrastructure engineer to join our small core team and build, operate, and scale Zulip — both as we run it on Zulip Cloud, and as thousands of self-hosters run it themselves. The Senior Backend/Infrastructure Engineer will work across backend features, performance, and infrastructure; review code from both staff and open-source contributors; and share responsibility for keeping Zulip Cloud production healthy. You will also have the opportunity to provide technical direction and mentorship to the team.

Check out https://zulip.com/jobs/ to learn more about this and other opportunities at Zulip, and apply at jobs@zulip.com.

Adacore | Software Engineers | Full-time | Remote or On-Site

Adacore is the maintainer of GNAT, GCC's Ada frontend (but now with many more compiler backends: LLVM, Why3, JVM...) and of a lot of tools revolving around the Ada ecosystem (IDEs, Coverage tools, Fuzzers, Static Analyzers, Formal proof tooling...). Evertything we build is open-source and we make money by providing support, trainings, certifications...

We are looking for different profiles:

- GCC/GNU toolchain developpers ( https://app.hellotalent.com/vacancy/gnu-toolchain-developer-... )

- Senior Static Analysis Software Engineer ( https://app.hellotalent.com/vacancy/senior-static-analysis-s... )

Please apply through the website. I am in the Static Analysis team, so I can answer questions if you have any. Also, if you feel like you would be a strong candidate (e.g. you have working experience with abstract interpretation) but are missing some of the requirements (e.g. not in the right location or only three years of experience instead of five etc) and this is making you hesitate to apply, please contact me - I'm just a lowly engineer far removed from the hiring pipeline but I'd love to hear for you and try to convince HR that you could be a good fit :).

Neuralk AI | Field Engineer | Full-time | Hybrid (Paris/London)

We are a seed stage startup building Tabular Foundation Models (TFM). This is an emerging space with huge potential.

LLM's like Claude take text as input and produce text.
Model's like nano banana take text as input and produce images.
Tabular Foundation Models take rows/columns as input, and produce predictions.

The world is sitting on huge amounts of structured data that isn't being used to its potential. Making predictions is hard. Today, most folks are building, training, maintaining their own models. A bit like you'd need to have done back in 2019 with LLM's.

We want to change that. We're looking for an early career Field Engineer to help build out demos, docs, resources, integrations as well as driving product adoption directly with customers. Someone who is passionate about building, has shipped real software (or predictions), has experience with Python and data science fundamentals.

If you're looking for something a bit different than just "hands on keyboard" engineering, and enjoy business as much as tech, this could be for you.

Feel free to reach out at aaron.stillwell@neuralk-ai.com

Hatchet | Full-Stack Engineer | NYC or SF or REMOTE (US and EU) | https://hatchet.run

Hey HN! I'm Alexander, one of the founders of Hatchet. Hatchet is an open-source platform for running background jobs at scale.

We're hiring engineers who are excited to build the next class of engineering primitives, starting with queues, background tasks and durable execution. We started in early 2024 after launching our distributed task queue (https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=39643136).

Hatchet is currently used by thousands of engineers for all kinds of workloads: log ingestion pipelines, code review agents, video encoding, GPU scheduling, etc. Our target customer is fast-growing startups who have a strong need for background jobs system. These days, that tends to be AI companies, though we're general-purpose and not exclusively targeted for AI workloads.

Stack: Postgres, Go, Typescript, React, Kubernetes

Applying: email me at alexander@hatchet.run and tell me about something impressive you've built, along with your CV and why you're interested in Hatchet.

Note that we're fully open-source, which you can check out here: https://github.com/hatchet-dev/hatchet (and if you have thoughts / opinions / questions about the codebase, please include those in your note!)

Deep Core Technology | Founding Engineer | REMOTE (MUST LIVE IN CANADA) | Full Time | Salary: $105,000 - $125,000 CAD + equity

Company: We’re building a geologic modelling software, based on reasoning, to help mining and mineral exploration companies work faster. Our goal is to create a way to enable open-ended, interpretive geologic problem solving to be done programmatically, changing the way to explore for hard rock and critical minerals. Currently in active fundraising.

Role: You are the founding engineer on the team, joining co-founder (Neil, CEO) and myself (Jeff, CTO) as first employee. You’ll have a deep influence over systems and architecture. You will have ownership through the entire stack from the database, through geostatistical backend services, through 3D rendering on the client side.

Work rooted in agentic systems, so an understanding of the internals of things like Claude Code, and a broader understanding of orchestrating agents to complete complex discrete tasks is important.

You:

- Fluent in Typescript, Python, and framework/tooling agnostic (Currently using things like NextJS, Supabase, Cesium)

- Eager to learn about mining domain knowledge around the software.

- Ownership of the codebase, and the systems that support the software (project management, CI/CD, monitoring, etc.)

- Strong engineering fundamentals around architecture, systems and security.

- Open to doing a yearly month abroad with Neil and I. Last year, it was Oaxaca, Mexico.

Apply: Shoot me an email at jeff@deepcoretech.com with a resume, and a short blurb about yourself. If you include a 1 minute video/Loom, I'd love to see it. Must be eligible to work in Canada without a VISA requirement. We are located in Squamish, BC.

https://www.deepcoretech.com

Hotwash | Founding Engineer (→ CTO for the right person) | REMOTE (US), Boston a plus | Full-time

I'm a solo founder. I built the entire product myself, got 11 fire departments paying with zero churn, and now I need someone to own engineering so I can't be the only one who does. West Point, Ranger Regiment, Yale Law, still the only developer.

What we do: Hotwash is an after-action review platform for fire departments. After a serious call, crews record what happened, we transcribe and structure it, and the hard-won lessons become searchable institutional memory instead of retiring when the veterans who earned them do. Fire is the wedge; the long game is operational learning for any high-reliability organization.

Traction: $40K ARR, 11 paying fire departments, zero churn. Raising a $1M pre-seed.

The role: Employee #1 on engineering. You own the codebase, architecture, and UX end to end, and you lead the rebuild off the current stack. You work directly with me on what gets built and why, including sitting with fire chiefs to figure out what they actually need. For the right person this becomes the CTO seat.

Who I'm looking for: A full-stack engineer who ships simple, usable products and has a real eye for design. Our users are fire crews, not power users, so the bar is "obvious to someone who's never seen it." If you care about how software feels, not just whether it works, this is your seat.

Stack: Today it's FlutterFlow + Firebase, Node, with Groq/AssemblyAI for transcription and Gemini for summarization. The rebuild target is React Native (Expo), Cloudflare Workers, D1, R2. You'd own that migration, so this is real greenfield ownership, not maintenance.

Comp: Founding equity, scaled to scope.

We're pre-raise, so cash is lean right now and grows when we close.

Email hiring@hotwash.com with a resume, link to something you've built, and one line on why this interests you.

[dead]

looks promising. more context pls

CO-Ver | Fullstack & Senior Fullstack SWE | Remote US | $125k-$175k DOE + Equity | 1099 Contract-to-Hire | Self-funded

GCs routinely overbill 10-15% on change orders, and owners have no systematic way to catch it. CO-Ver is building software to help owners and developers review, validate, and challenge construction change orders before they pay them.

The product combines document ingestion, scope/cost comparison, estimate review workflows, and LLM-assisted analysis with human estimators in the loop.
MVP is nearing completion. We're targeting production by mid-July, self-funded, intentionally small, and working directly with customers in a painful, expensive, and underserved market. You'll work with the founders and fractional CTO, have a real voice in product and architecture decisions, and receive early-stage equity.

Open roles:
Fullstack SWE ($125k-$155k): 3+ years, strong TypeScript, React/Next.js, solid data modeling, interest in LLM-assisted workflows

Senior Fullstack SWE ($150k-$175k): 5+ years, deep TypeScript, production Next.js/multi-tenant SaaS/LLM features, comfortable owning architecture decisions

Nice to have: Convex, Clerk, Tailwind v4, PDF pipelines, construction domain knowledge

Stack: Next.js · React 19 · TypeScript · Convex · Clerk · Tailwind v4 · Anthropic API · Vercel · GitHub Actions

Email recruiting@co-ver.com with [hn] in the subject. Thank you!

[dead]

[dead]

If the survelliance tech is so great, why post amber alert messages with the license plate numbers all over all highways to help find the car?

LiveKit|http://livekit.io/| VoiceAI | webRTC | Remote | Full Time
LiveKit is building the infrastructure layer for the voice-driven era of computing. Our platform gives developers everything they need to build, test, deploy, scale, and observe agents in production.

Hiring:

>> Staff Rust SDK Engineer: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/livekit/a1d10340-7cd9-4029-9a56-139...

>> Staff Security Engineer: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/livekit/efc06ff8-37c4-473e-8de8-bbb...

>> Sr Software Engineer, Agent Platform: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/livekit/f152aa9f-981c-4661-99d3-683...

>> Developer Success Engineer: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/livekit/fdff28df-2245-43c1-bb09-430...

>> Sr Software Engineer, Telephony: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/livekit/d9a2f119-0c83-4b39-a7de-7d2...

Co-founders: Russ d'Sa (CEO/Cofounder) https://www.linkedin.com/in/russelldsa/ & David Zhao (CTO/Cofounder) https://www.linkedin.com/in/davidzhao/

Check out our blog: https://livekit.com/blog

Our other roles: https://livekit.io/careers?utm_source=1bpyr8q375

This is an example of a political science phenomenon: delegation of authority.

The state itself can't deal with a problem (sky-high nuisance and property crime rates) so people are taking the issue into their own hands. That's also why all this video surveillance startup that shall remain unnamed is still doing quite well: a lot of people WANT cameras to watch every movement in the streets.

What is the fix? Solve the original problem: highly visible property crime by repeat offenders.

> To do this, your device is shouting to the world a ton of your personal information in something called a probe packet. A probe packet contains the MAC address as well as the list of all the past Wi-fi networks that your device has tried to join before, which can reveal a lot about you!

In the 2010s, maybe. Nowadays MAC address randomisation is the norm and past WiFi networks are not broadcast anymore.

This is out of date, Amazon Go has shut down. RIP to some really cool tech.

There are too many technical inaccuracies in this to take it serious (or to try and address them all here). Directionally it is fairly accurate, but the author clearly has very little knowledge of surveillance cameras, their capabilities, or even broadly how to identify ALPR vs. traffic control cameras (and similar nuances).

Isn't any camera with low enough angle good for license plate reading with additional software?

> A probe packet contains the MAC address as well as the list of all the past Wi-fi networks that your device has tried to join before, which can reveal a lot about you!

Generally, most modern devices send broadcast/wildcard probes precisely to avoid leaking the PNL. From what I know, directed probes are only sent for hidden APs.

I wonder what they mean by this?

> The camera can have different ways of seeing encoded in it, including kinds of gazes that enforce social agreements about what kinds of behavior and people are considered “normal”

The phrase "kinds of gazes" strikes me as the sort of thing that's only going to make sense to people trained in a very particular and idiosyncratic flavor of ethical critique. What a normal person sees here is, "These cameras can detect if people are acting bizarre and dangerous," which is probably something most people would appreciate. In Seattle, the problem, of course, is that the streets are full of people acting bizarre and dangerous, it doesn't take a camera network to find them, and the police seem to be under strict orders not to do anything about it.

Will this program be permanent giving the government 100 new cameras to track the movements of everybody?

I think this is just the new normal.

My car was stolen in Seattle and it was found with the person driving it when he was pulled over by police.  In the car he had paperwork with his name on it, a weapon, and his work uniform in the trunk with a name badge (he was a security guard - lol) along with a neighborhood witness.

Despite a mountain of evidence, the prosecutors declined to press charges because without direct video evidence of him stealing the car, they would not get a jury to convict, because jurors in Seattle have become accustom to thinking that the only way to overcome reasonable doubt is to have it on video.  And even that often isn't enough...

https://github.com/stanford-policylab/surveilling-surveillan...

Why are blue states, cities, and counties obsessed with surveillance? And things like red light cameras, speed cameras, and anything else they can get their grubby hands on?

BTW, you can drive around in Seattle with no plates at all and police are not allowed to pull you over ("primary stops" are forbidden[1]).

[1] https://westseattleblog.com/2022/01/heres-what-spd-isnt-like...

Saying that patterns are dangerous because they can reinforce stereotypes sounds a lot like you are saying the stereotypes are true.

Based on context on their site, this looks like it was generated in ~2019 from data gathered before that, and some stuff in it is out of date as other comments mention.

Flat black circles on top of traffic signal control boxes, which are large, gray or painted metal boxes, typically found at street corners.

  The Acyclica device casts a fake Wi-Fi network and tracks phones that try to join the network in passing cars. Since each phone has a unique identifier …, different Acyclica installations can track your personal location as you pass them in the city.

Is iOS latest susceptible on default settings? w/“Rotating” “Private Wi-Fi Address“

America needs to realize that this is absolutely not the land of the free anymore. The government and big business are in cahoots to screw you out of every cent they can and to make sure you're not about to commit some unspeakable act of terror, like hold up the wrong protest sign.

Edit: case in point by https://www.techradar.com/pro/quote-of-the-day-by-oracle-co-...

Still somehow was "impossible" for the Seattle police to recover security camera footage of my bike being stolen under the light rail station security camera.

Lots of po-mo art-school language on this site about “encoding ways of seeing” and “gazes.”

The content itself is somewhat interesting but imo plain language would be more accessible.

> Each surveillance technology in our field guide includes the following categories to help you “spot” surveillance technology in the wild

One shouldn't trust their eyes alone to spot all the hidden cameras that private property owners love to have covering the streets. For example, it took me months to realize that a tenant in my own building has three cameras pointed down from the windows of their unit and can track my every coming and going if they so wish, and that's an environment I have my eyes on every single day.

I have a modified Olympus OM-D E-M5Ⅱ MFT camera body that I picked up on a whim because it came with a bunch of lenses and batteries and other things I wanted to use with my PEN-F, and it turned out to be amazing for spotting hidden surveillance cameras.

The way it works is that the underlying camera sensor can see IR by design, and an IR-cut filter is installed over it to restrict it to the visible spectrum for photography. The mod simply opens up the camera body and removes that part. Surveillance cameras in dark rooms (or at night on the street) then show up as bright spots, because the modified body can see the ring of IR LEDs they use to illuminate dark scenes for night surveillance.

I don't have any surveillance-spotting images to share, because I usually only do that via the viewfinder live preview (because tbh a photo of an all-black room with a single bright IR blob isn't interesting enough to shoot), but for example here is my IR photo of the Windows XP “Bliss” hill (near the Sonoma/Napa border) both as-shot and after channel mixing:

- https://i.ibb.co/23t4HdrZ/P5160220-1.jpg

- https://i.ibb.co/1Yw8RFLS/P5160220-2.jpg

edit: Fine, link to web store removed at behest of shithead [dead] commenter. Find your own if you want one. If you must know, I got mine from Seawood Photo in San Rafael. How's this for an ad if you're so fucking bothered? – I'm Lammy and this is my favorite camera shop in the San Francisco Bay Area: d(^^ ) https://www.seawood.shop/ ( ^^)b

I still feel so conflicted on things like the Flock cameras. On one hand I understand that they have the capability of incredibly enhancing the ability for police departments to solve more crimes. Especially things related to vehicle theft, they could likely track down your stolen vehicle very quickly especially if they have a wide network of cameras.

However, my concern is always about the possibility for misuse. Even if I trust the current government, it doesn't mean I will trust a future one. What if they use the technology to track/monitor people like investigative journalists? We've already seen a recent state passing bills that would make it harder for investigative journalism to happen. So it's not even out of the realm of possibility for this technology to get used in ways that even would be deemed "legal" as they can simply expand the laws to use it unreasonably in the future.

There is also the other obvious concern which is surrounding things like data breaches or other unauthorized access issues. There have already been many people exposing some large security flaws in a lot of the devices currently out there.

Where I am stuck is how do we balance the huge set of benefits that can come from this kind of tech, with the tradeoffs? Ultimately this tech is unlikely to stop being implemented as governments and even most of the population is largely unbothered by mass surveillance. I almost don't even bother bringing up discussions on these topics with non-tech people as I have yet to find someone who seemed to care at all about this. If anything they are very in support of this technology being implemented as they seem unable to understand the tradeoffs due to it often requiring more technical knowledge. They just see all the positives it can give, and don't grasp the negatives.

Ultimately people usually desire safety, and these cameras definitely can give people more safety. Is it possible to balance safety with proper privacy safeguards?

Surprisingly milquetoast list given the title

I don't like needless surveillance either but we have people (and kids!) getting shot all over the city, and juries and judges that won't do anything without video or photographic evidence of the crime.  I am literally willing to trade some of my liberty for safety in this case.  When crime is under control, let's discuss getting rid of them (which I know is farfetched).

In the early 2000s after 9/11 there was a guy doing public surveillance tours around New York City using "photocopies of hand-drawn maps".

NY Times archive.org https://web.archive.org/web/20100317184609/https://www.nytim...

For everyone interested in this topic: with https://mapcomplete.org/surveillance, anyone can easily see and update surveillance camera's in OpenStreetMap

I walked around downtown Seattle twenty-five years ago helping my ex-wife make a survey like this, cataloging & photographing surveillance devices for a project she was working on. I wonder whatever came of it. Even then, it was difficult to get very far without passing through the view of some security camera or other.

[dead]

I visited NYC again recently and spent some time in an area with a lot of pedestrian traffic and bike lanes. I can't imagine this is an easy job for transit planners because it seems like people just don't heed any rules or laws.

Pedestrians don't look at the walk and stop hand signs, they just walk no matter what and expect cars to stop. I was like the only person in brooklyn actually waiting for the walk signal. I felt like a rube. The bus lane they had was on its knees too from this. The bus would try and depart but then 6 people would try and cross in front of it, forcing it to stop. Then with 6 people in the intersection 6 more from the sidewalk would try and run out and take advantage of the stalled traffic, making the bus miss its light cycle.

Bike lanes were even more chaotic because you'd get that lack of caring about signalling along with people going the wrong way down one way bike lanes, and the vast majority of traffic was either ebike or escooter, even mopeds and motorcycles, not human powered bike, so people were flying. They'd be buffered too so as a pedestrian crossing you don't really see any of the oncoming bike lane traffic behind the row of parked cars. TBI rates must be astounding.

I don't really get the TUI craze. Would love it if someone has some perspective that I'm lacking.

Display technology has seen so much progress in the past decades. Apple marketing has taught us about "Retina" displays with pixels so small that you can't tell them apart without a microscope. We get these very rich and colorful desktop environments but we actively decide to not use any of that.

Now, I get that a TUI can look incredibly crisp with proper text rendering, kerning, ligatures, nerd fonts and so on, but still with all that, at the end of the day we still have a thingamajig that implements a VT100. It is a strict subset of what could potentially be drawn with a proper GUI framework.

I understand that TUIs can run over SSH channels, can be juggled with Zellij/tmux/mprocs -- as such they are composable in the sense that they can be used in a way the author(s) didn't think of. It's been a while since I've done any of that personally, and I for one think it's a bit of a cop-out that the Claude Code integration in PyCharm is just the TUI [1] inside a terminal emulator inside my IDE when it could be so much more, just to provide one example.

The article shows off an strace TUI, and it's not like I can't see the benefits of making strace output more browsable. What I don't understand is why that must happen inside a terminal window where (for instance) all text must have the same font and size.

So what is the appeal? I'm asking in good faith. Is it because the perceived alternative is another run-off-the-mill Electron RAM guzzler, because there aren't any _good_ GUI widget frameworks? Is it the multi-platform aspect?

If all we work in are these super-lean TUIs maybe we don't even need so powerful computers or such high-DPI displays anymore?

I'm genuinely puzzled, but interested to know how TUIs appeal to other people.

1) which, I understand, is itself a React app with a console renderer!

The deeper reason agents write good Bonsai_term code is that the entire UI renders as plain text, so a screenshot test is just a diff the model can read and verify on its own. A GUI's visual state needs a vision model to inspect, but a TUI's output already lives in the agent's native modality, which closes the feedback loop for free.

[flagged]

this looks good, thanks!

[dead]

I wonder what people think about session replay, ethically. Is it okay to do? Do you think visitors should be informed about it? Would you use a website differently if there was a big red banner saying your cursor movements and viewport are being livestreamed to HQ?

Genuinely curious, because it's not something I think most people are aware of when they browse the web.

very cool. session replays are so crucial for understanding new features qualitatively, especially before you have enough users for useful quantitative metrics.

ballpark, how much does this cost to run?

[flagged]

Questiom for TUI writers - in 2026 is there any terminal emulator that doesn't understand ecma 48 control codes?

[flagged]

How does this compare to e.g. OpenReplay, which looks quite similar?

[1] https://www.openreplay.com

[flagged]

I work on bonsai_term (though Jose is the primary author and many others have contributed incredible work). I'm happy to try and answer any questions that the post may bring up.

[flagged]

I remember loading the game Frogger off a cassette tape onto my friends old Commodore 64 at the time. That blew my mind at the time!

Cool idea but it doesn't even work after the hour long video

Wasn't able to follow install instructions for bonsai_term. Have you seen ncurses? It's really easy to install.

I wonder if this approach to starting a vertical business the founders have 0 experience in has ever panned out. I know YC pushes the B2B SaaS angle as hard as possible, searching for "underserved" niches, but seems like if you don't have true industry experience, it can't possibly work out.

I have had a similar notion, around the same time, with tui's and strace in particular. Lots of experiments, never quite good enough to publish or try to popularize. Something I've found in the last few years though, and especially the last six months, is that the impulse to make a better tui has died for me. Claude et al are going to wield these tools via cli far better than I can via tui. The built in visualization is nice for sure in tui, an embodied perspective on how to investigate something, however Claude can make a custom one for me in the moment within a few minutes. My impulse is to throw Claude at the issue with the bare linux toolbox while I do other things, not hand craft better tools that I don't have much motivation to use right now.

Interesting that Jane Street has taken an interest in TUIs, I think mostly this renaissance is partly due to the current bloat of Electron GUIs.

There are other great examples of TUIs that i've seen around the web:

https://github.com/ratatui/awesome-ratatui

https://terminaltrove.com/explore/

https://github.com/rothgar/awesome-tuis

But I think we will swing back to using GUIs when we find a performant way of making them, I don't know what it is yet but surely someone is working on this.

TUIs look good to look at though!

[dead]

[flagged]

[dead]

Always pains me to see all this innovation and cool software work being applies towards making a machine that extracts money from retail investors and makes a few people extremely wealthy. What a depressing and colossal waste of time.

Slightly OT, but the next logical steps include, in no particular order:

- frameworks for tui development, including react-like DOM shit

- further ad-hoc specs building on top of ANSI escape codes for finer control

- maybe a scripting language

This is the kind of content that one comes to HN, great stuff!

This reminds me that I once had a computer magazine from the 80s that came with a green vinyl record "single" that had a game on it for a popular computer, perhaps the Commodore 64. It was useless to me as I had a Z80 machine, but a curiosity.

[dead]

TUIs are just GUIs that use a grid of characters instead of pixels. They are strictly worse than true GUIs, by definition. The only thing I liked TUIs for is running over SSH, but can any of these newer ones really run over SSH with any kind of decent performance anyway?

I think people are confused and think they like TUIs because they like them being keyboard driven etc. But this could all be done with a GUI.

The other factor is probably just fashion. Similar to how some kids are now listening to music on cassette tapes, which are objectively worse than other media in almost all respects. The less cynical take is it's like vinyl: it does come with compromises but gives us back some of the things we lost over the years.

The actual interesting text-based interface is the CLI. I've seen a few examples of TUIs that really should be a CLI and would be much more useful as such.

[dead]

This should be labeled humor or taken down. I did laugh though

> We started this when Sahil took a construction management class and realized how the estimation workflows hadn't changed in decades

That's because it's been used in the construction industry for literally a couple of millennium (e.g. ancient rome) and it's a fairly well-understood material. The variations come in with the newer "exotics" rated above 5k psi that are more chemistry than aggregate, water, and portland cement.

Did your one class teach you that any non-parabolic concrete cross section is approximately 7% steel? And that the bidding issues with concrete are centered around the steel rebar/wwm/wwf installation and formwork/earthwork prior to pour?

[flagged]

[flagged]

I wish more terminals supported Tektronix and ReGIS graphics. We could do some really interesting visuals with those.

At the Czechoslovak Game Archive, we have recently received and digitized a version of the Robot Karel educational programming environment for the Czechoslovak IQ 151 home computer stored on a vinyl record: https://herniarchiv.cz/en/blog/88-robot-karel-na-vinylove-de...

Might be the peak of "We did it just because it is so stupid." Bravo!

If the AI miscalculates, and building crashes and people die - who is held responsible?

Looks like a useful tool but I don't know anything about construction.

Love the transparent AI helper implementation though. I feel like you don't even need to say it's AI because it's so helpful but not in your face but maybe that's what people are searching for.

DockDoor does this and a lot more. Its also open source https://dockdoor.net/

isn't this just what 3-finger upswipe does???

I recall using litestep back in the 9x days. Loved this feature (virtual desktops.)

Plus the wharfs were cool, imo.

[dead]

We need a new social media platform purely for Apple product experiences. Stay with me. People post their experiences with various parts of all their products, from hardware button position to software design and behavior. Upvotes are "It's Genius", downvotes are "It's Shit" -- because Apple has completely shirked its much needed Jobsian specter.

The joke, of course, is that I imagine a good 75% of the reviews would be "it's shit."

> I’ve had feedback this name is terrible

GridLion is an excellent name

Reading this article and comment section really makes me appreciate Qubes OS (XFCE4), lmao.

60 workspaces, in a 12x5 grid.  You'll never catch me driving an Apple!

how do u write the "llms dont care about ux" paragraph then link to your app site that exemplifies llm ux

The tool looks sick. I think the copilot vs black box approach is great. I found the demo to be enjoyable and satisfying to watch despite having no experience in the concrete estimation industry.

This is out of my wheelhouse but had a couple of thoughts. When you clicked P1, it found all of them. What happens if it doesn't? This would have been good to see in the video.

Also, I'm sure people familiar with these documents will have no trouble but was thinking it could be cool to do some effect to make references glow/be more noticeable at least temporarily when you are skipping around to them. Maybe some zoom controls too.

Anyways, good luck!

This is all normalization to iOS horseshit.

A list ordering is the most primitive and least memorable layout because lists sort arbitrarily and alphabetical listing of capabilities are not intuitive.

But the weirdness only grows from here:

For example, Photos shows library recents bottom to top, but pick-photo from library shows recents top to bottom

Portrait orientation puts "Done" on one end, landscape puts it on the other.

"Done" can be implied by a return tap or involve a "done" tap.

Some controls tap, some slide and some do both.

Release to release, the formats move around.

Format varies between apps & modes.

Mystery meat abounds

Holding the device a certain way causes spastic mode changes, which vary release to release.

Almost any way you touch the device instigates an action or mode change and some controls have 3+ levels of function:

WTF does the "power" button do?

- stand-by
- camera shutter
- emergency SOS vs shutdown
- arbitrary mode change depending on accessibility setting

Bugs and features overlap.

The UI is never baked, ever more modal...

exhausting

A friend works in construction and they have details of how much materials each part of a construction needs. Most of it comes directly from the (not sure the name) SW they use to calculate the structure/ draw the plans.

DE design was done in 1995. Any tiny advancements since have been entirely overshadowed by all the gigantic setbacks.

As long as useful idiots keep circling the block in queues to buy the next version of their apple product, nothing will change. This will only get shittier.

I don't get the use of the spatial layout here.  A line may be cruder but if you're going full swordfish hackerman mode why are you caring about grid geography at all?  Bind each to a hotkey.  The only time you're swiping is when you're lost.

Like what competitive player uses scroll wheel weapon switching in Quakelike games?  Nobody

Seems MacOS Snow Leopard is for the Apple people what Windows 7 is for Windows people.

> LLMs don’t care about UX

Many parts of the LLM care about UX, and you unlock it with your feedback loop, which is a good way to unlock it but one of many ways.

One way to show that LLMs care about UX is to have one tutor you about UX. If they weren't trained to care about it, they couldn't do a decent job. But I've asked dozens of questions about UX to LLMs and they have a great deal of insight.

You can also assign hot keys to each desktop and then this grid layout is irrelevant anyway

I wish there were a way to sandbox apps with more granularity.

I’ve been using a friend’s app switcher because cmd+tab was a bit too slow and not window oriented.

But this has been pretty nice for me.

https://mwitch.viraat.dev/

It’s also open source if you want to customize it for your own preferences (pinned apps, custom keybinds, etc)

I've been using macs since the Classic. I have used macs because the OS was rarely a limiting factor in my productivity. In fact, everything has always been made unobtrusive. Presently, there is misdirected focus at Apple. Most consumers will not have known better. But, that complacency has never been the way apple managed to innovate to be so ahead.

There is no way I could have been as productive as I was on a 13" MBP back in the early 2010's without Spaces. I still vividly remember losing it [0] and spent a few years using various apps to re-implement the old-style spaces. The 2D -> 1D change is what killed it for me. I had amazing muscle memory of where everything was. Center screen is my browser, going left took my to my code editors, going right took me to my terminal, going down to my database GUI tool, and up for reference (second browser or photoshop design).

I never had to think about where things were, I didn't feel constrained on my tiny screen with no external monitoring, things were good. And now it's been over a decade and while I've "replaced" spaces with multiple external monitors I still think about it from time to time.

I watch people use (fight) the current "spaces" and I just shake my head thinking of what we lost and how Fisher-Price the new version is. Spaces used to be a power tool, now it's a shadow of its former self IMHO.

[0] Single row spaces is a joke, I won't use it

Gonna reply guy here because this is a paid thing. Agree with the author. Exposé was amazing. Here's an open alternative that I built, completely keyboard driven: https://github.com/peterp/cmdcmd/

Anything great starts with Japanese toilets

Forget all that. I want my stuff in text-based lists. Showing icons and file previews is way slower and less informative.

I just installed it, but I can't get it to switch spaces, or show the grid overlay.  It just beeps at me with the "you can't do that" beep.  When I click "Add Desktop", it says "Could Not Add Desktop" and "GridLion could not read the current Spaces for this display."

This is a M1 macbook air.  I really want to try this.

I use Charmstone for spatial app switching - https://charmstone.app/

Not the same as full spaces, but it gives the same vibe of always having a particular app on a particular hotkey.

I try to limit my multi-tasking though, so I can imagine where full spaces would be useful.

How much “tiling” and “mission controlling” do the civilians do or want to do anyway? I want to think close to zero. They are happy full-screening their Chrome on their Airs, bless their hearts, my wife included. I once attempted to demonstrate to her the brilliance of Alfred, Raycast, the new Spotlight, and she asked me if I forgot to take my meds.

The ones who do want this flexibility is also close to zero (I’m in the demographic, so not zero).  Kill “Mission Control” / “Spaces”, “Stage Manager”, free up system resources and unfreeze some APIs.  Win-win, Mr Turnis.

Snow Leopard was peak OS X

p9wl: A 9P wayland compositor: https://12e.iwp9.org/papers/p9wl.pdf

Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRx75piIlxo

Thank you,
Great description.
I have a similar feeling while on my work computer for switching between windows. For some reason when the number of windows are too much, full screen task switching is slowdowns (its not a case my personal work)
So i made taskbar.ahmetozer.org my be it helps.

I loved spaces. It was so awesome. I tried stage manager the other day and died inside. Immediately turned it off.

I am not so hopeful about the future of macOS given that the next CEO of Apple is a hardware guy, not a software person.

Vote with your money and time!

If you can, switch to Linux, choose the distro you like, and help make it better, in UI and whatnot.

You could call it hyperspace in an homage to that old 10.6-era application which customized spaces. (Also I just realized why Apple called it called mission control, it allows you to organize spaces).

Also this is basically a replacement for the zombie TotalSpaces 3

I do not like the grid. I can’t see what’s in it.

I'm excited, thanks for spending your free time bringing back parts of mac that made it an OS that felt nice to use. I also hope Apple brings this back as a native feature, but until then, I hope you can make some $$ on the effort.

there is a project that makes macOS alt+tab look like windows grids (if anyone coming from there), its all something alt_tabs or something

Apple has a strange habit of making the first version excellent, then finding ways to degrade the experience. The grid pattern of spaces is definitely one; Spotlight, as it appeared in Tiger, is another.

The last good MacOS was System 6. Change my mind :D

> Textmate (and its revolutionary text-snippets) were the catalyst to my migration

Hooo damn TextMate snippets, that brings back memories. Hard to convey how hyped I was to use these. That is also what drove me to Mac at that time. I remember writing hundreds of those snippets for every possible C++ construct, and  to fill in variable name, type, loop counters and so on.

A bit of self-promotion here, but coming from Windows/Linux land I got used to having the taskbar at the bottom and never really liked the Dock. I love my Mac, and I know folks who have been using macOS for decades swear by it, but this is one UI feature from other OSes that I would have liked to see in macOS.

One major issue is that the Dock cannot filter apps between Spaces, so I built boringBar[0] for this. It frees up real estate taken up by the Dock and makes it much easier to figure out what goes where.

I do understand the need for an app switcher on the Mac, though. It has the same problem I faced: it is very app-centric rather than window-centric. Switching between windows is nigh impossible on a Mac without third-party apps, unless you like using the three-finger swipe up gesture. I have never been able to switch quickly between windows using Mission Control.

[0] https://boringbar.app

Humans have good spatial memory and having a handful of statically-positioned desktops in a 2D plane makes navigation intuitive and consistent.

The real issue is how the ORDER of the desktops changes all the time which messes with that spatial memory and kills a lot of the productivity improvements. A consistent straight line would still be worse than a grid, but still MUCH better than the current situation.

Interesting, but I will prefer more unified and i3 style way for that I use aerospace and many other tools which give me such experience https://github.com/lanycrost/home_is_everywhere

> Apparently what I wanted was a Merchant of Record. Someone to handle purchases, taxes and refunds. There seems to be three main companies providing this service: Paddle, GumRoad and Lemon Squeezy.

I've used Lemon Squeezy a couple years back, but after the acquisition I feel they've gone downhill. It's been a month since I submitted my product for review and I'm still waiting.