Development and Evolution of Neural Networks in an Artificial Chemistry

We present a model of decentralized growth for Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) inspired by the development and the physiology of real nervous systems. In this model, each individual artificial neuron is an autonomous unit whose behavior is determined only by the genetic information it harbors and local concentrations of substrates modeled by a simple artificial chemistry. Gene expression is manifested as axon and dendrite growth, cell division and differentiation, substrate production and cell stimulation. We demonstrate the model's power with a hand-written genome that leads to the growth of a simple network which performs classical conditioning. To evolve more complex structures, we implemented a platform-independent, asynchronous, distributed Genetic Algorithm (GA) that allows users to participate in evolutionary experiments via the World Wide Web.

Evolution of genetic organization in digital organisms

We examine the evolution of expression patterns and the organization of genetic information in populations of self-replicating digital organisms. Seeding the experiments with a linearly expressed ancestor, we witness the development of complex, parallel secondary expression patterns. Using principles from information theory, we demonstrate an evolutionary pressure towards overlapping expressions causing variation (and hence further evolution) to sharply drop. Finally, we compare the overlapping sections of dominant genomes to those portions which are singly expressed and observe a significant difference in the entropy of their encoding.

Science User Scenarios for a Virtual Observatory Design Reference Mission: Science Requirements for Data Mining

The knowledge discovery potential of the new large astronomical databases is vast. When these are used in conjunction with the rich legacy data archives, the opportunities for scientific discovery multiply rapidly. A Virtual Observatory (VO) framework will enable transparent and efficient access, search, retrieval, and visualization of data across multiple data repositories, which are generally heterogeneous and distributed. Aspects of data mining that apply to a variety of science user scenarios with a VO are reviewed. The development of a VO should address the data mining needs of various astronomical research constituencies. By way of example, two user scenarios are presented which invoke applications and linkages of data across the catalog and image domains in order to address specific astrophysics research problems. These illustrate a subset of the desired capabilities and power of the VO, and as such they represent potential components of a VO Design Reference Mission.

Fast n-point correlation functions and three-point lensing application

We present a new algorithm to rapidly compute the two-point (2PCF), three-point (3PCF) and n-point (n-PCF) correlation functions in roughly O(N log N) time for N particles, instead of O(N^n) as required by brute force approaches. The algorithm enables an estimate of the full 3PCF for as many as 10^6 galaxies. This technique exploits node-to-node correlations of a recursive bisectional binary tree. A balanced tree construction minimizes the depth of the tree and the worst case error at each node. The algorithm presented in this paper can be applied to problems with arbitrary geometry.
We describe the detailed implementation to compute the two point function and all eight components of the 3PCF for a two-component field, with attention to shear fields generated by gravitational lensing. We also generalize the algorithm to compute the n-point correlation function for a scalar field in k dimensions where n and k are arbitrary positive integers.

Virtual Observatory: From Concept to Implementation

We review the origins of the Virtual Observatory (VO) concept, and the current status of the efforts in this field. VO is the response of the astronomical community to the challenges posed by the modern massive and complex data sets. It is a framework in which information technology is harnessed to organize, maintain, and explore the rich information content of the exponentially growing data sets, and to enable a qualitatively new science to be done with them. VO will become a complete, open, distributed, web-based framework for astronomy of the early 21st century. A number of significant efforts worldwide are now striving to convert this vision into reality. The technological and methodological challenges posed by the information-rich astronomy are also common to many other fields. We see a fundamental change in the way all science is done, driven by the information technology revolution.

Restart Strategies and Internet Congestion

We recently presented a methodology for quantitatively reducing the risk and cost of executing electronic transactions in a bursty network environment such as the Internet. In the language of portfolio theory, time to complete a transaction and its variance replace the expected return and risk associated with a security, whereas restart times replace combinations of securities. While such a strategy works well with single users, the question remains as to its usefulness when used by many. By using mean field arguments and agent-based simulations, we determine that a restart strategy remains advantageous even if everybody uses it.

Noncommutative Martin-Lof randomness : on the concept of a random sequence of qubits

Martin-Lof's definition of random sequences of cbits as those not belonging to any set of constructive zero Lebesgue measure is reformulated in the language of Algebraic Probability Theory.
The adoption of the Pour-El Richards theory of computability structures on Banach spaces allows us to give a natural noncommutative extension of Martin-Lof's definition, characterizing the random elements of a chain Von Neumann algebra.
In the particular case of the minimally informative noncommutative alphabet our definition reduces to the definition of a random sequence of qubits.

Use of Weighted Finite State Transducers in Part of Speech Tagging

This paper addresses issues in part of speech disambiguation using finite-state transducers and presents two main contributions to the field. One of them is the use of finite-state machines for part of speech tagging. Linguistic and statistical information is represented in terms of weights on transitions in weighted finite-state transducers. Another contribution is the successful combination of techniques -- linguistic and statistical -- for word disambiguation, compounded with the notion of word classes.

Tagging French Without Lexical Probabilities -- Combining Linguistic Knowledge And Statistical Learning

This paper explores morpho-syntactic ambiguities for French to develop a strategy for part-of-speech disambiguation that a) reflects the complexity of French as an inflected language, b) optimizes the estimation of probabilities, c) allows the user flexibility in choosing a tagset. The problem in extracting lexical probabilities from a limited training corpus is that the statistical model may not necessarily represent the use of a particular word in a particular context. In a highly morphologically inflected language, this argument is particularly serious since a word can be tagged with a large number of parts of speech. Due to the lack of sufficient training data, we argue against estimating lexical probabilities to disambiguate parts of speech in unrestricted texts. Instead, we use the strength of contextual probabilities along with a feature we call ``genotype'', a set of tags associated with a word. Using this knowledge, we have built a part-of-speech tagger that combines linguistic and statistical approaches: contextual information is disambiguated by linguistic rules and n-gram probabilities on parts of speech only are estimated in order to disambiguate the remaining ambiguous tags.

Disambiguating with Controlled Disjunctions

In this paper, we propose a disambiguating technique called controlled disjunctions. This extension of the so-called named disjunctions relies on the relations existing between feature values (covariation, control, etc.). We show that controlled disjunctions can implement different kind of ambiguities in a consistent and homogeneous way. We describe the integration of controlled disjunctions into a HPSG feature structure representation. Finally, we present a direct implementation by means of delayed evaluation and we develop an example within the functionnal programming paradigm.

Parsing syllables: modeling OT computationally

In this paper, I propose to implement syllabification in OT as a parser. I propose several innovations that result in a finite and small candidate set. The candidate set problem is handled with several moves: i) MAX and DEP violations are not hypothesized by the parser, ii) candidates are encoded locally, and iii) EVAL is applied constraint by constraint.
The parser I propose is implemented in Prolog. It has a number of desirable consequences. First, it runs and thus provides an existence proof that syllabification can be implemented in OT. There are a number of other desirable consequences as well. First, constraints are implemented as finite-state transducers. Second, the parser makes several interesting claims about the phonological properties of so-called nonrecoverable insertions and deletions. Third, the implementation suggests some particular reformulations of some of the benchmark constraints in the OT arsenal, e.g. *COMPLEX, PARSE, ONSET, and NOCODA.

Attaching Multiple Prepositional Phrases: Generalized Backed-off Estimation

There has recently been considerable interest in the use of lexically-based statistical techniques to resolve prepositional phrase attachments. To our knowledge, however, these investigations have only considered the problem of attaching the first PP, i.e., in a [V NP PP] configuration. In this paper, we consider one technique which has been successfully applied to this problem, backed-off estimation, and demonstrate how it can be extended to deal with the problem of multiple PP attachment. The multiple PP attachment introduces two related problems: sparser data (since multiple PPs are naturally rarer), and greater syntactic ambiguity (more attachment configurations which must be distinguished). We present and algorithm which solves this problem through re-use of the relatively rich data obtained from first PP training, in resolving subsequent PP attachments.

Learning Features that Predict Cue Usage

Our goal is to identify the features that predict the occurrence and placement of discourse cues in tutorial explanations in order to aid in the automatic generation of explanations. Previous attempts to devise rules for text generation were based on intuition or small numbers of constructed examples. We apply a machine learning program, C4.5, to induce decision trees for cue occurrence and placement from a corpus of data coded for a variety of features previously thought to affect cue usage. Our experiments enable us to identify the features with most predictive power, and show that machine learning can be used to induce decision trees useful for text generation.

A Corpus-Based Investigation of Definite Description Use

We present the results of a study of definite descriptions use in written texts aimed at assessing the feasibility of annotating corpora with information about definite description interpretation. We ran two experiments, in which subjects were asked to classify the uses of definite descriptions in a corpus of 33 newspaper articles, containing a total of 1412 definite descriptions. We measured the agreement among annotators about the classes assigned to definite descriptions, as well as the agreement about the antecedent assigned to those definites that the annotators classified as being related to an antecedent in the text. The most interesting result of this study from a corpus annotation perspective was the rather low agreement (K=0.63) that we obtained using versions of Hawkins' and Prince's classification schemes; better results (K=0.76) were obtained using the simplified scheme proposed by Fraurud that includes only two classes, first-mention and subsequent-mention. The agreement about antecedents was also not complete. These findings raise questions concerning the strategy of evaluating systems for definite description interpretation by comparing their results with a standardized annotation. From a linguistic point of view, the most interesting observations were the great number of discourse-new definites in our corpus (in one of our experiments, about 50% of the definites in the collection were classified as discourse-new, 30% as anaphoric, and 18% as associative/bridging) and the presence of definites which did not seem to require a complete disambiguation.

Probabilistic Event Categorization

This paper describes the automation of a new text categorization task. The categories assigned in this task are more syntactically, semantically, and contextually complex than those typically assigned by fully automatic systems that process unseen test data. Our system for assigning these categories is a probabilistic classifier, developed with a recent method for formulating a probabilistic model from a predefined set of potential features. This paper focuses on feature selection. It presents a number of fully automatic features. It identifies and evaluates various approaches to organizing collocational properties into features, and presents the results of experiments covarying type of organization and type of property. We find that one organization is not best for all kinds of properties, so this is an experimental parameter worth investigating in NLP systems. In addition, the results suggest a way to take advantage of properties that are low frequency but strongly indicative of a class. The problems of recognizing and organizing the various kinds of contextual information required to perform a linguistically complex categorization task have rarely been systematically investigated in NLP.

Probabilistic Constraint Logic Programming

This paper addresses two central problems for probabilistic processing models: parameter estimation from incomplete data and efficient retrieval of most probable analyses. These questions have been answered satisfactorily only for probabilistic regular and context-free models. We address these problems for a more expressive probabilistic constraint logic programming model. We present a log-linear probability model for probabilistic constraint logic programming. On top of this model we define an algorithm to estimate the parameters and to select the properties of log-linear models from incomplete data. This algorithm is an extension of the improved iterative scaling algorithm of Della-Pietra, Della-Pietra, and Lafferty (1995). Our algorithm applies to log-linear models in general and is accompanied with suitable approximation methods when applied to large data spaces. Furthermore, we present an approach for searching for most probable analyses of the probabilistic constraint logic programming model. This method can be applied to the ambiguity resolution problem in natural language processing applications.

Approximating Context-Free Grammars with a Finite-State Calculus

Although adequate models of human language for syntactic analysis and semantic interpretation are of at least context-free complexity, for applications such as speech processing in which speed is important finite-state models are often preferred. These requirements may be reconciled by using the more complex grammar to automatically derive a finite-state approximation which can then be used as a filter to guide speech recognition or to reject many hypotheses at an early stage of processing. A method is presented here for calculating such finite-state approximations from context-free grammars. It is essentially different from the algorithm introduced by Pereira and Wright (1991; 1996), is faster in some cases, and has the advantage of being open-ended and adaptable.

Probabilistic Parsing Using Left Corner Language Models

We introduce a novel parser based on a probabilistic version of a left-corner parser. The left-corner strategy is attractive because rule probabilities can be conditioned on both top-down goals and bottom-up derivations. We develop the underlying theory and explain how a grammar can be induced from analyzed data. We show that the left-corner approach provides an advantage over simple top-down probabilistic context-free grammars in parsing the Wall Street Journal using a grammar induced from the Penn Treebank. We also conclude that the Penn Treebank provides a fairly weak testbed due to the flatness of its bracketings and to the obvious overgeneration and undergeneration of its induced grammar.

Variation and Synthetic Speech

We describe the approach to linguistic variation taken by the Motorola speech synthesizer. A pan-dialectal pronunciation dictionary is described, which serves as the training data for a neural network based letter-to-sound converter. Subsequent to dictionary retrieval or letter-to-sound generation, pronunciations are submitted a neural network based postlexical module. The postlexical module has been trained on aligned dictionary pronunciations and hand-labeled narrow phonetic transcriptions. This architecture permits the learning of individual postlexical variation, and can be retrained for each speaker whose voice is being modeled for synthesis. Learning variation in this way can result in greater naturalness for the synthetic speech that is produced by the system.

Some apparently disjoint aims and requirements for grammar development environments: the case of natural language generation

Grammar development environments (GDE's) for analysis and for generation have not yet come together. Despite the fact that analysis-oriented GDE's (such as ALEP) may include some possibility of sentence generation, the development techniques and kinds of resources suggested are apparently not those required for practical, large-scale natural language generation work. Indeed, there is no use of `standard' (i.e., analysis-oriented) GDE's in current projects/applications targetting the generation of fluent, coherent texts. This unsatisfactory situation requires some analysis and explanation, which this paper attempts using as an example an extensive GDE for generation. The support provided for distributed large-scale grammar development, multilinguality, and resource maintenance are discussed and contrasted with analysis-oriented approaches.

Contextual Information and Specific Language Models for Spoken Language Understanding

In this paper we explain how contextual expectations are generated and used in the task-oriented spoken language understanding system Dialogos. The hard task of recognizing spontaneous speech on the telephone may greatly benefit from the use of specific language models during the recognition of callers' utterances. By 'specific language models' we mean a set of language models that are trained on contextually appropriated data, and that are used during different states of the dialogue on the basis of the information sent to the acoustic level by the dialogue management module. In this paper we describe how the specific language models are obtained on the basis of contextual information. The experimental result we report show that recognition and understanding performance are improved thanks to the use of specific language models.

Language Modelling For Task-Oriented Domains

This paper is focused on the language modelling for task-oriented domains and presents an accurate analysis of the utterances acquired by the Dialogos spoken dialogue system. Dialogos allows access to the Italian Railways timetable by using the telephone over the public network. The language modelling aspects of specificity and behaviour to rare events are studied. A technique for getting a language model more robust, based on sentences generated by grammars, is presented. Experimental results show the benefit of the proposed technique. The increment of performance between language models created using grammars and usual ones, is higher when the amount of training material is limited. Therefore this technique can give an advantage especially for the development of language models in a new domain.

On the use of expectations for detecting and repairing human-machine miscommunication

In this paper I describe how miscommunication problems are dealt with in the spoken language system DIALOGOS. The dialogue module of the system exploits dialogic expectations in a twofold way: to model what future user utterance might be about (predictions), and to account how the user's next utterance may be related to previous ones in the ongoing interaction (pragmatic-based expectations). The analysis starts from the hypothesis that the occurrence of miscommunication is concomitant with two pragmatic phenomena: the deviation of the user from the expected behaviour and the generation of a conversational implicature. A preliminary evaluation of a large amount of interactions between subjects and DIALOGOS shows that the system performance is enhanced by the uses of both predictions and pragmatic-based expectations.

Towards an Improved Performance Measure for Language Models

In this paper a first attempt at deriving an improved performance measure for language models, the probability ratio measure (PRM) is described. In a proof of concept experiment, it is shown that PRM correlates better with recognition accuracy and can lead to better recognition results when used as the optimisation criterion of a clustering algorithm. Inspite of the approximations and limitations of this preliminary work, the results are very encouraging and should justify more work along the same lines.

Application-driven automatic subgrammar extraction

The space and run-time requirements of broad coverage grammars appear for many applications unreasonably large in relation to the relative simplicity of the task at hand. On the other hand, handcrafted development of application-dependent grammars is in danger of duplicating work which is then difficult to re-use in other contexts of application. To overcome this problem, we present in this paper a procedure for the automatic extraction of application-tuned consistent subgrammars from proved large-scale generation grammars. The procedure has been implemented for large-scale systemic grammars and builds on the formal equivalence between systemic grammars and typed unification based grammars. Its evaluation for the generation of encyclopedia entries is described, and directions of future development, applicability, and extensions are discussed.

The effect of alternative tree representations on tree bank grammars

The performance of PCFGs estimated from tree banks is sensitive to the particular way in which linguistic constructions are represented as trees in the tree bank. This paper presents a theoretical analysis of the effect of different tree representations for PP attachment on PCFG models, and introduces a new methodology for empirically examining such effects using tree transformations. It shows that one transformation, which copies the label of a parent node onto the labels of its children, can improve the performance of a PCFG model in terms of labelled precision and recall on held out data from 73% (precision) and 69% (recall) to 80% and 79% respectively. It also points out that if only maximum likelihood parses are of interest then many productions can be ignored, since they are subsumed by combinations of other productions in the grammar. In the Penn II tree bank grammar, almost 9% of productions are subsumed in this way.

Proof Nets and the Complexity of Processing Center-Embedded Constructions

This paper shows how proof nets can be used to formalize the notion of ``incomplete dependency'' used in psycholinguistic theories of the unacceptability of center-embedded constructions. Such theories of human language processing can usually be restated in terms of geometrical constraints on proof nets. The paper ends with a discussion of the relationship between these constraints and incremental semantic interpretation.

Features as Resources in R-LFG

This paper introduces a non-unification-based version of LFG called R-LFG (Resource-based Lexical Functional Grammar), which combines elements from both LFG and Linear Logic. The paper argues that a resource sensitive account provides a simpler treatment of many linguistic uses of non-monotonic devices in LFG, such as existential constraints and constraint equations.

Type-driven semantic interpretation and feature dependencies in R-LFG

Once one has enriched LFG's formal machinery with the linear logic mechanisms needed for semantic interpretation as proposed by Dalrymple et. al., it is natural to ask whether these make any existing components of LFG redundant. As Dalrymple and her colleagues note, LFG's f-structure completeness and coherence constraints fall out as a by-product of the linear logic machinery they propose for semantic interpretation, thus making those f-structure mechanisms redundant. Given that linear logic machinery or something like it is independently needed for semantic interpretation, it seems reasonable to explore the extent to which it is capable of handling feature structure constraints as well.
R-LFG represents the extreme position that all linguistically required feature structure dependencies can be captured by the resource-accounting machinery of a linear or similiar logic independently needed for semantic interpretation, making LFG's unification machinery redundant. The goal is to show that LFG linguistic analyses can be expressed as clearly and perspicuously using the smaller set of mechanisms of R-LFG as they can using the much larger set of unification-based mechanisms in LFG: if this is the case then we will have shown that positing these extra f-structure mechanisms is not linguistically warranted.

Applying Explanation-based Learning to Control and Speeding-up Natural Language Generation

This paper presents a method for the automatic extraction of subgrammars to control and speeding-up natural language generation NLG. The method is based on explanation-based learning (EBL). The main advantage for the proposed new method for NLG is that the complexity of the grammatical decision making process during NLG can be vastly reduced, because the EBL method supports the adaption of a NLG system to a particular use of a language.

Machine Learning of User Profiles: Representational Issues

As more information becomes available electronically, tools for finding information of interest to users becomes increasingly important. The goal of the research described here is to build a system for generating comprehensible user profiles that accurately capture user interest with minimum user interaction. The research described here focuses on the importance of a suitable generalization hierarchy and representation for learning profiles which are predictively accurate and comprehensible. In our experiments we evaluated both traditional features based on weighted term vectors as well as subject features corresponding to categories which could be drawn from a thesaurus. Our experiments, conducted in the context of a content-based profiling system for on-line newspapers on the World Wide Web (the IDD News Browser), demonstrate the importance of a generalization hierarchy and the promise of combining natural language processing techniques with machine learning (ML) to address an information retrieval (IR) problem.

Context as a Spurious Concept

I take issue with AI formalizations of context, primarily the formalization by McCarthy and Buvac, that regard context as an undefined primitive whose formalization can be the same in many different kinds of AI tasks. In particular, any theory of context in natural language must take the special nature of natural language into account and cannot regard context simply as an undefined primitive. I show that there is no such thing as a coherent theory of context simpliciter -- context pure and simple -- and that context in natural language is not the same kind of thing as context in KR. In natural language, context is constructed by the speaker and the interpreter, and both have considerable discretion in so doing. Therefore, a formalization based on pre-defined contexts and pre-defined `lifting axioms' cannot account for how context is used in real-world language.

Multi-document Summarization by Graph Search and Matching

We describe a new method for summarizing similarities and differences in a pair of related documents using a graph representation for text. Concepts denoted by words, phrases, and proper names in the document are represented positionally as nodes in the graph along with edges corresponding to semantic relations between items. Given a perspective in terms of which the pair of documents is to be summarized, the algorithm first uses a spreading activation technique to discover, in each document, nodes semantically related to the topic. The activated graphs of each document are then matched to yield a graph corresponding to similarities and differences between the pair, which is rendered in natural language. An evaluation of these techniques has been carried out.

Topic Graph Generation for Query Navigation: Use of Frequency Classes for Topic Extraction

To make an interactive guidance mechanism for document retrieval systems, we developed a user-interface which presents users the visualized map of topics at each stage of retrieval process. Topic words are automatically extracted by frequency analysis and the strength of the relationships between topic words is measured by their co-occurrence. A major factor affecting a user's impression of a given topic word graph is the balance between common topic words and specific topic words. By using frequency classes for topic word extraction, we made it possible to select well-balanced set of topic words, and to adjust the balance of common and specific topic words.

"I don't believe in word senses"

Word sense disambiguation assumes word senses. Within the lexicography and linguistics literature, they are known to be very slippery entities. The paper looks at problems with existing accounts of `word sense' and describes the various kinds of ways in which a word's meaning can deviate from its core meaning. An analysis is presented in which word senses are abstractions from clusters of corpus citations, in accordance with current lexicographic practice. The corpus citations, not the word senses, are the basic objects in the ontology. The corpus citations will be clustered into senses according to the purposes of whoever or whatever does the clustering. In the absence of such purposes, word senses do not exist.
Word sense disambiguation also needs a set of word senses to disambiguate between. In most recent work, the set has been taken from a general-purpose lexical resource, with the assumption that the lexical resource describes the word senses of English/French/..., between which NLP applications will need to disambiguate. The implication of the paper is, by contrast, that word senses exist only relative to a task.

Foreground and Background Lexicons and Word Sense Disambiguation for Information Extraction

Lexicon acquisition from machine-readable dictionaries and corpora is currently a dynamic field of research, yet it is often not clear how lexical information so acquired can be used, or how it relates to structured meaning representations. In this paper I look at this issue in relation to Information Extraction (hereafter IE), and one subtask for which both lexical and general knowledge are required, Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD). The analysis is based on the widely-used, but little-discussed distinction between an IE system's foreground lexicon, containing the domain's key terms which map onto the database fields of the output formalism, and the background lexicon, containing the remainder of the vocabulary. For the foreground lexicon, human lexicography is required. For the background lexicon, automatic acquisition is appropriate.
For the foreground lexicon, WSD will occur as a by-product of finding a coherent semantic interpretation of the input. WSD techniques as discussed in recent literature are suited only to the background lexicon. Once the foreground/background distinction is developed, there is a match between what is possible, given the state of the art in WSD, and what is required, for high-quality IE.

What is word sense disambiguation good for?

Word sense disambiguation has developed as a sub-area of natural language processing, as if, like parsing, it was a well-defined task which was a pre-requisite to a wide range of language-understanding applications. First, I review earlier work which shows that a set of senses for a word is only ever defined relative to a particular human purpose, and that a view of word senses as part of the linguistic furniture lacks theoretical underpinnings. Then, I investigate whether and how word sense ambiguity is in fact a problem for different varieties of NLP application.

Speech Repairs, Intonational Boundaries and Discourse Markers: Modeling Speakers' Utterances in Spoken Dialog

In this thesis, we present a statistical language model for resolving speech repairs, intonational boundaries and discourse markers. Rather than finding the best word interpretation for an acoustic signal, we redefine the speech recognition problem to so that it also identifies the POS tags, discourse markers, speech repairs and intonational phrase endings (a major cue in determining utterance units). Adding these extra elements to the speech recognition problem actually allows it to better predict the words involved, since we are able to make use of the predictions of boundary tones, discourse markers and speech repairs to better account for what word will occur next. Furthermore, we can take advantage of acoustic information, such as silence information, which tends to co-occur with speech repairs and intonational phrase endings, that current language models can only regard as noise in the acoustic signal. The output of this language model is a much fuller account of the speaker's turn, with part-of-speech assigned to each word, intonation phrase endings and discourse markers identified, and speech repairs detected and corrected. In fact, the identification of the intonational phrase endings, discourse markers, and resolution of the speech repairs allows the speech recognizer to model the speaker's utterances, rather than simply the words involved, and thus it can return a more meaningful analysis of the speaker's turn for later processing.

Hierarchical Non-Emitting Markov Models

We describe a simple variant of the interpolated Markov model with non-emitting state transitions and prove that it is strictly more powerful than any Markov model. More importantly, the non-emitting model outperforms the classic interpolated model on the natural language texts under a wide range of experimental conditions, with only a modest increase in computational requirements. The non-emitting model is also much less prone to overfitting.
Keywords: Markov model, interpolated Markov model, hidden Markov model, mixture modeling, non-emitting state transitions, state-conditional interpolation, statistical language model, discrete time series, Brown corpus, Wall Street Journal.

Identifying Discourse Markers in Spoken Dialog

In this paper, we present a method for identifying discourse marker usage in spontaneous speech based on machine learning. Discourse markers are denoted by special POS tags, and thus the process of POS tagging can be used to identify discourse markers. By incorporating POS tagging into language modeling, discourse markers can be identified during speech recognition, in which the timeliness of the information can be used to help predict the following words. We contrast this approach with an alternative machine learning approach proposed by Litman (1996). This paper also argues that discourse markers can be used to help the hearer predict the role that the upcoming utterance plays in the dialog. Thus discourse markers should provide valuable evidence for automatic dialog act prediction.

Do not forget: Full memory in memory-based learning of word pronunciation

Memory-based learning, keeping full memory of learning material, appears a viable approach to learning NLP tasks, and is often superior in generalisation accuracy to eager learning approaches that abstract from learning material. Here we investigate three partial memory-based learning approaches which remove from memory specific task instance types estimated to be exceptional. The three approaches each implement one heuristic function for estimating exceptionality of instance types: (i) typicality, (ii) class prediction strength, and (iii) friendly-neighbourhood size. Experiments are performed with the memory-based learning algorithm IB1-IG trained on English word pronunciation. We find that removing instance types with low prediction strength (ii) is the only tested method which does not seriously harm generalisation accuracy. We conclude that keeping full memory of types rather than tokens, and excluding minority ambiguities appear to be the only performance-preserving optimisations of memory-based learning.

Modularity in inductively-learned word pronunciation systems

In leading morpho-phonological theories and state-of-the-art text-to-speech systems it is assumed that word pronunciation cannot be learned or performed without in-between analyses at several abstraction levels (e.g., morphological, graphemic, phonemic, syllabic, and stress levels). We challenge this assumption for the case of English word pronunciation. Using IGTree, an inductive-learning decision-tree algorithms, we train and test three word-pronunciation systems in which the number of abstraction levels (implemented as sequenced modules) is reduced from five, via three, to one. The latter system, classifying letter strings directly as mapping to phonemes with stress markers, yields significantly better generalisation accuracies than the two multi-module systems. Analyses of empirical results indicate that positive utility effects of sequencing modules are outweighed by cascading errors passed on between modules.

A General, Sound and Efficient Natural Language Parsing Algorithm based on Syntactic Constraints Propagation

This paper presents a new context-free parsing algorithm based on a bidirectional strictly horizontal strategy which incorporates strong top-down predictions (derivations and adjacencies). From a functional point of view, the parser is able to propagate syntactic constraints reducing parsing ambiguity.
From a computational perspective, the algorithm includes different techniques aimed at the improvement of the manipulation and representation of the structures used.

Look-Back and Look-Ahead in the Conversion of Hidden Markov Models into Finite State Transducers

This paper describes the conversion of a Hidden Markov Model into a finite state transducer that closely approximates the behavior of the stochastic model. In some cases the transducer is equivalent to the HMM. This conversion is especially advantageous for part-of-speech tagging because the resulting transducer can be composed with other transducers that encode correction rules for the most frequent tagging errors. The speed of tagging is also improved. The described methods have been implemented and successfully tested.

A Hybrid Environment for Syntax-Semantic Tagging

The thesis describes the application of the relaxation labelling algorithm to NLP disambiguation. Language is modelled through context constraint inspired on Constraint Grammars. The constraints enable the use of a real value statind "compatibility". The technique is applied to POS tagging, Shallow Parsing and Word Sense Disambigation. Experiments and results are reported. The proposed approach enables the use of multi-feature constraint models, the simultaneous resolution of several NL disambiguation tasks, and the collaboration of linguistic and statistical models.

Automating Coreference: The Role of Annotated Training Data

We report here on a study of interannotator agreement in the coreference task as defined by the Message Understanding Conference (MUC-6 and MUC-7). Based on feedback from annotators, we clarified and simplified the annotation specification. We then performed an analysis of disagreement among several annotators, concluding that only 16% of the disagreements represented genuine disagreement about coreference; the remainder of the cases were mostly typographical errors or omissions, easily reconciled. Initially, we measured interannotator agreement in the low 80s for precision and recall. To try to improve upon this, we ran several experiments. In our final experiment, we separated the tagging of candidate noun phrases from the linking of actual coreferring expressions. This method shows promise - interannotator agreement climbed to the low 90s - but it needs more extensive validation. These results position the research community to broaden the coreference task to multiple languages, and possibly to different kinds of coreference.

Time, Tense and Aspect in Natural Language Database Interfaces

Most existing natural language database interfaces (NLDBs) were designed to be used with database systems that provide very limited facilities for manipulating time-dependent data, and they do not support adequately temporal linguistic mechanisms (verb tenses, temporal adverbials, temporal subordinate clauses, etc.). The database community is becoming increasingly interested in temporal database systems, that are intended to store and manipulate in a principled manner information not only about the present, but also about the past and future. When interfacing to temporal databases, supporting temporal linguistic mechanisms becomes crucial.
We present a framework for constructing natural language interfaces for temporal databases (NLTDBs), that draws on research in tense and aspect theories, temporal logics, and temporal databases. The framework consists of a temporal intermediate representation language, called TOP, an HPSG grammar that maps a wide range of questions involving temporal mechanisms to appropriate TOP expressions, and a provably correct method for translating from TOP to TSQL2, TSQL2 being a recently proposed temporal extension of the SQL database language. This framework was employed to implement a prototype NLTDB using ALE and Prolog.

Nymble: a High-Performance Learning Name-finder

This paper presents a statistical, learned approach to finding names and other non-recursive entities in text (as per the MUC-6 definition of the NE task), using a variant of the standard hidden Markov model. We present our justification for the problem and our approach, a detailed discussion of the model itself and finally the successful results of this new approach.

The Proper Treatment of Optimality in Computational Phonology

This paper presents a novel formalization of optimality theory. Unlike previous treatments of optimality in computational linguistics, starting with Ellison (1994), the new approach does not require any explicit marking and counting of constraint violations. It is based on the notion of "lenient composition," defined as the combination of ordinary composition and priority union. If an underlying form has outputs that can meet a given constraint, lenient composition enforces the constraint; if none of the output candidates meet the constraint, lenient composition allows all of them. For the sake of greater efficiency, we may "leniently compose" the GEN relation and all the constraints into a single finite-state transducer that maps each underlying form directly into its optimal surface realizations, and vice versa, without ever producing any failing candidates. Seen from this perspective, optimality theory is surprisingly similar to the two older strains of finite-state phonology: classical rewrite systems and two-level models. In particular, the ranking of optimality constraints corresponds to the ordering of rewrite rules.

Treatment of Epsilon-Moves in Subset Construction

The paper discusses the problem of determinising finite-state automata containing large numbers of epsilon-moves. Experiments with finite-state approximations of natural language grammars often give rise to very large automata with a very large number of epsilon-moves. The paper identifies three subset construction algorithms which treat epsilon-moves. A number of experiments has been performed which indicate that the algorithms differ considerably in practice. Furthermore, the experiments suggest that the average number of epsilon-moves per state can be used to predict which algorithm is likely to perform best for a given input automaton.

Corpus-Based Word Sense Disambiguation

Resolution of lexical ambiguity, commonly termed ``word sense disambiguation'', is expected to improve the analytical accuracy for tasks which are sensitive to lexical semantics. Such tasks include machine translation, information retrieval, parsing, natural language understanding and lexicography. Reflecting the growth in utilization of machine readable texts, word sense disambiguation techniques have been explored variously in the context of corpus-based approaches. Within one corpus-based framework, that is the similarity-based method, systems use a database, in which example sentences are manually annotated with correct word senses. Given an input, systems search the database for the most similar example to the input. The lexical ambiguity of a word contained in the input is resolved by selecting the sense annotation of the retrieved example. In this research, we apply this method of resolution of verbal polysemy, in which the similarity between two examples is computed as the weighted average of the similarity between complements governed by a target polysemous verb. We explore similarity-based verb sense disambiguation focusing on the following three methods. First, we propose a weighting schema for each verb complement in the similarity computation. Second, in similarity-based techniques, the overhead for manual supervision and searching the large-sized database can be prohibitive. To resolve this problem, we propose a method to select a small number of effective examples, for system usage. Finally, the efficiency of our system is highly dependent on the similarity computation used. To maximize efficiency, we propose a method which integrates the advantages of previous methods for similarity computation.

On the existence of certain total recursive functions in nontrivial axiom systems, I

We investigate the existence of a class of ZFC-provably total recursive unary functions, given certain constraints, and apply some of those results to show that, for $Σ_1$-sound set theory, ZFC$\not\vdash P<NP$.

Group Theory and Grammatical Description

This paper presents a model for linguistic description based on group theory. A grammar in this model, or "G-grammar", is a collection of lexical expressions which are products of logical forms, phonological forms, and their inverses. Phrasal descriptions are obtained by forming products of lexical expressions and by cancelling contiguous elements which are inverses of each other. We show applications of this model to parsing and generation, long-distance movement, and quantifier scoping. We believe that by moving from the free monoid over a vocabulary V --- standard in formal language studies --- to the free group over V, deep affinities between linguistic phenomena and classical algebra come to the surface, and that the consequences of tapping the mathematical connections thus established could be considerable.

Models of Co-occurrence

A model of co-occurrence in bitext is a boolean predicate that indicates whether a given pair of word tokens co-occur in corresponding regions of the bitext space. Co-occurrence is a precondition for the possibility that two tokens might be mutual translations. Models of co-occurrence are the glue that binds methods for mapping bitext correspondence with methods for estimating translation models into an integrated system for exploiting parallel texts. Different models of co-occurrence are possible, depending on the kind of bitext map that is available, the language-specific information that is available, and the assumptions made about the nature of translational equivalence. Although most statistical translation models are based on models of co-occurrence, modeling co-occurrence correctly is more difficult than it may at first appear.

Annotation Style Guide for the Blinker Project

This annotation style guide was created by and for the Blinker project at the University of Pennsylvania. The Blinker project was so named after the ``bilingual linker'' GUI, which was created to enable bilingual annotators to ``link'' word tokens that are mutual translations in parallel texts. The parallel text chosen for this project was the Bible, because it is probably the easiest text to obtain in electronic form in multiple languages. The languages involved were English and French, because, of the languages with which the project co-ordinator was familiar, these were the two for which a sufficient number of annotators was likely to be found.

Manual Annotation of Translational Equivalence: The Blinker Project

Bilingual annotators were paid to link roughly sixteen thousand corresponding words between on-line versions of the Bible in modern French and modern English. These annotations are freely available to the research community from http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~melamed . The annotations can be used for several purposes. First, they can be used as a standard data set for developing and testing translation lexicons and statistical translation models. Second, researchers in lexical semantics will be able to mine the annotations for insights about cross-linguistic lexicalization patterns. Third, the annotations can be used in research into certain recently proposed methods for monolingual word-sense disambiguation. This paper describes the annotated texts, the specially-designed annotation tool, and the strategies employed to increase the consistency of the annotations. The annotation process was repeated five times by different annotators. Inter-annotator agreement rates indicate that the annotations are reasonably reliable and that the method is easy to replicate.

Word-to-Word Models of Translational Equivalence

Parallel texts (bitexts) have properties that distinguish them from other kinds of parallel data. First, most words translate to only one other word. Second, bitext correspondence is noisy. This article presents methods for biasing statistical translation models to reflect these properties. Analysis of the expected behavior of these biases in the presence of sparse data predicts that they will result in more accurate models. The prediction is confirmed by evaluation with respect to a gold standard -- translation models that are biased in this fashion are significantly more accurate than a baseline knowledge-poor model. This article also shows how a statistical translation model can take advantage of various kinds of pre-existing knowledge that might be available about particular language pairs. Even the simplest kinds of language-specific knowledge, such as the distinction between content words and function words, is shown to reliably boost translation model performance on some tasks. Statistical models that are informed by pre-existing knowledge about the model domain combine the best of both the rationalist and empiricist traditions.

Parsing Inside-Out

The inside-outside probabilities are typically used for reestimating Probabilistic Context Free Grammars (PCFGs), just as the forward-backward probabilities are typically used for reestimating HMMs. I show several novel uses, including improving parser accuracy by matching parsing algorithms to evaluation criteria; speeding up DOP parsing by 500 times; and 30 times faster PCFG thresholding at a given accuracy level. I also give an elegant, state-of-the-art grammar formalism, which can be used to compute inside-outside probabilities; and a parser description formalism, which makes it easy to derive inside-outside formulas and many others.

Integrating Text Plans for Conciseness and Coherence

Our experience with a critiquing system shows that when the system detects problems with the user's performance, multiple critiques are often produced. Analysis of a corpus of actual critiques revealed that even though each individual critique is concise and coherent, the set of critiques as a whole may exhibit several problems that detract from conciseness and coherence, and consequently assimilation. Thus a text planner was needed that could integrate the text plans for individual communicative goals to produce an overall text plan representing a concise, coherent message.
This paper presents our general rule-based system for accomplishing this task. The system takes as input a \emph{set} of individual text plans represented as RST-style trees, and produces a smaller set of more complex trees representing integrated messages that still achieve the multiple communicative goals of the individual text plans. Domain-independent rules are used to capture strategies across domains, while the facility for addition of domain-dependent rules enables the system to be tuned to the requirements of a particular domain. The system has been tested on a corpus of critiques in the domain of trauma care.

Automatic summarising: factors and directions

This position paper suggests that progress with automatic summarising demands a better research methodology and a carefully focussed research strategy. In order to develop effective procedures it is necessary to identify and respond to the context factors, i.e. input, purpose, and output factors, that bear on summarising and its evaluation. The paper analyses and illustrates these factors and their implications for evaluation. It then argues that this analysis, together with the state of the art and the intrinsic difficulty of summarising, imply a nearer-term strategy concentrating on shallow, but not surface, text analysis and on indicative summarising. This is illustrated with current work, from which a potentially productive research programme can be developed.

Recognizing Syntactic Errors in the Writing of Second Language Learners

This paper reports on the recognition component of an intelligent tutoring system that is designed to help foreign language speakers learn standard English. The system models the grammar of the learner, with this instantiation of the system tailored to signers of American Sign Language (ASL). We discuss the theoretical motivations for the system, various difficulties that have been encountered in the implementation, as well as the methods we have used to overcome these problems. Our method of capturing ungrammaticalities involves using mal-rules (also called 'error productions'). However, the straightforward addition of some mal-rules causes significant performance problems with the parser. For instance, the ASL population has a strong tendency to drop pronouns and the auxiliary verb `to be'. Being able to account for these as sentences results in an explosion in the number of possible parses for each sentence. This explosion, left unchecked, greatly hampers the performance of the system. We discuss how this is handled by taking into account expectations from the specific population (some of which are captured in our unique user model). The different representations of lexical items at various points in the acquisition process are modeled by using mal-rules, which obviates the need for multiple lexicons. The grammar is evaluated on its ability to correctly diagnose agreement problems in actual sentences produced by ASL native speakers.

Learning Correlations between Linguistic Indicators and Semantic Constraints: Reuse of Context-Dependent Descriptions of Entities

This paper presents the results of a study on the semantic constraints imposed on lexical choice by certain contextual indicators. We show how such indicators are computed and how correlations between them and the choice of a noun phrase description of a named entity can be automatically established using supervised learning. Based on this correlation, we have developed a technique for automatic lexical choice of descriptions of entities in text generation. We discuss the underlying relationship between the pragmatics of choosing an appropriate description that serves a specific purpose in the automatically generated text and the semantics of the description itself. We present our work in the framework of the more general concept of reuse of linguistic structures that are automatically extracted from large corpora. We present a formal evaluation of our approach and we conclude with some thoughts on potential applications of our method.

Computing Dialogue Acts from Features with Transformation-Based Learning

To interpret natural language at the discourse level, it is very useful to accurately recognize dialogue acts, such as SUGGEST, in identifying speaker intentions. Our research explores the utility of a machine learning method called Transformation-Based Learning (TBL) in computing dialogue acts, because TBL has a number of advantages over alternative approaches for this application. We have identified some extensions to TBL that are necessary in order to address the limitations of the original algorithm and the particular demands of discourse processing. We use a Monte Carlo strategy to increase the applicability of the TBL method, and we select features of utterances that can be used as input to improve the performance of TBL. Our system is currently being tested on the VerbMobil corpora of spoken dialogues, producing promising preliminary results.

Lazy Transformation-Based Learning

We introduce a significant improvement for a relatively new machine learning method called Transformation-Based Learning. By applying a Monte Carlo strategy to randomly sample from the space of rules, rather than exhaustively analyzing all possible rules, we drastically reduce the memory and time costs of the algorithm, without compromising accuracy on unseen data. This enables Transformation- Based Learning to apply to a wider range of domains, as it can effectively consider a larger number of different features and feature interactions in the data. In addition, the Monte Carlo improvement decreases the labor demands on the human developer, who no longer needs to develop a minimal set of rule templates to maintain tractability.

Rationality, Cooperation and Conversational Implicature

Conversational implicatures are usually described as being licensed by the disobeying or flouting of a Principle of Cooperation. However, the specification of this principle has proved computationally elusive. In this paper we suggest that a more useful concept is rationality. Such a concept can be specified explicitely in planning terms and we argue that speakers perform utterances as part of the optimal plan for their particular communicative goals. Such an assumption can be used by the hearer to infer conversational implicatures implicit in the speaker's utterance.

Eliminating deceptions and mistaken belief to infer conversational implicature

Conversational implicatures are usually described as being licensed by the disobeying or flouting of some principle by the speaker in cooperative dialogue. However, such work has failed to distinguish cases of the speaker flouting such a principle from cases where the speaker is either deceptive or holds a mistaken belief. In this paper, we demonstrate how the three different cases can be distinguished in terms of the beliefs ascribed to the speaker of the utterance. We argue that in the act of distinguishing the speaker's intention and ascribing such beliefs, the intended inference can be made by the hearer. This theory is implemented in ViewGen, a pre-existing belief modelling system used in a medical counselling domain.

Dialogue Act Tagging with Transformation-Based Learning

For the task of recognizing dialogue acts, we are applying the Transformation-Based Learning (TBL) machine learning algorithm. To circumvent a sparse data problem, we extract values of well-motivated features of utterances, such as speaker direction, punctuation marks, and a new feature, called dialogue act cues, which we find to be more effective than cue phrases and word n-grams in practice. We present strategies for constructing a set of dialogue act cues automatically by minimizing the entropy of the distribution of dialogue acts in a training corpus, filtering out irrelevant dialogue act cues, and clustering semantically-related words. In addition, to address limitations of TBL, we introduce a Monte Carlo strategy for training efficiently and a committee method for computing confidence measures. These ideas are combined in our working implementation, which labels held-out data as accurately as any other reported system for the dialogue act tagging task.

An Investigation of Transformation-Based Learning in Discourse

This paper presents results from the first attempt to apply Transformation-Based Learning to a discourse-level Natural Language Processing task. To address two limitations of the standard algorithm, we developed a Monte Carlo version of Transformation-Based Learning to make the method tractable for a wider range of problems without degradation in accuracy, and we devised a committee method for assigning confidence measures to tags produced by Transformation-Based Learning. The paper describes these advances, presents experimental evidence that Transformation-Based Learning is as effective as alternative approaches (such as Decision Trees and N-Grams) for a discourse task called Dialogue Act Tagging, and argues that Transformation-Based Learning has desirable features that make it particularly appealing for the Dialogue Act Tagging task.

Unlimited Vocabulary Grapheme to Phoneme Conversion for Korean TTS

This paper describes a grapheme-to-phoneme conversion method using phoneme connectivity and CCV conversion rules. The method consists of mainly four modules including morpheme normalization, phrase-break detection, morpheme to phoneme conversion and phoneme connectivity check.
The morpheme normalization is to replace non-Korean symbols into standard Korean graphemes. The phrase-break detector assigns phrase breaks using part-of-speech (POS) information. In the morpheme-to-phoneme conversion module, each morpheme in the phrase is converted into phonetic patterns by looking up the morpheme phonetic pattern dictionary which contains candidate phonological changes in boundaries of the morphemes. Graphemes within a morpheme are grouped into CCV patterns and converted into phonemes by the CCV conversion rules. The phoneme connectivity table supports grammaticality checking of the adjacent two phonetic morphemes.
In the experiments with a corpus of 4,973 sentences, we achieved 99.9% of the grapheme-to-phoneme conversion performance and 97.5% of the sentence conversion performance. The full Korean TTS system is now being implemented using this conversion method.

Methods and Tools for Building the Catalan WordNet

In this paper we introduce the methodology used and the basic phases we followed to develop the Catalan WordNet, and shich lexical resources have been employed in its building. This methodology, as well as the tools we made use of, have been thought in a general way so that they could be applied to any other language.

Towards a single proposal is spelling correction

The study presented here relies on the integrated use of different kinds of knowledge in order to improve first-guess accuracy in non-word context-sensitive correction for general unrestricted texts. State of the art spelling correction systems, e.g. ispell, apart from detecting spelling errors, also assist the user by offering a set of candidate corrections that are close to the misspelled word. Based on the correction proposals of ispell, we built several guessers, which were combined in different ways. Firstly, we evaluated all possibilities and selected the best ones in a corpus with artificially generated typing errors. Secondly, the best combinations were tested on texts with genuine spelling errors. The results for the latter suggest that we can expect automatic non-word correction for all the errors in a free running text with 80% precision and a single proposal 98% of the times (1.02 proposals on average).

A Memory-Based Approach to Learning Shallow Natural Language Patterns

Recognizing shallow linguistic patterns, such as basic syntactic relationships between words, is a common task in applied natural language and text processing. The common practice for approaching this task is by tedious manual definition of possible pattern structures, often in the form of regular expressions or finite automata. This paper presents a novel memory-based learning method that recognizes shallow patterns in new text based on a bracketed training corpus. The training data are stored as-is, in efficient suffix-tree data structures. Generalization is performed on-line at recognition time by comparing subsequences of the new text to positive and negative evidence in the corpus. This way, no information in the training is lost, as can happen in other learning systems that construct a single generalized model at the time of training. The paper presents experimental results for recognizing noun phrase, subject-verb and verb-object patterns in English. Since the learning approach enables easy porting to new domains, we plan to apply it to syntactic patterns in other languages and to sub-language patterns for information extraction.

Bayesian Stratified Sampling to Assess Corpus Utility

This paper describes a method for asking statistical questions about a large text corpus. We exemplify the method by addressing the question, "What percentage of Federal Register documents are real documents, of possible interest to a text researcher or analyst?" We estimate an answer to this question by evaluating 200 documents selected from a corpus of 45,820 Federal Register documents. Stratified sampling is used to reduce the sampling uncertainty of the estimate from over 3100 documents to fewer than 1000. The stratification is based on observed characteristics of real documents, while the sampling procedure incorporates a Bayesian version of Neyman allocation. A possible application of the method is to establish baseline statistics used to estimate recall rates for information retrieval systems.

Can Subcategorisation Probabilities Help a Statistical Parser?

Research into the automatic acquisition of lexical information from corpora is starting to produce large-scale computational lexicons containing data on the relative frequencies of subcategorisation alternatives for individual verbal predicates. However, the empirical question of whether this type of frequency information can in practice improve the accuracy of a statistical parser has not yet been answered. In this paper we describe an experiment with a wide-coverage statistical grammar and parser for English and subcategorisation frequencies acquired from ten million words of text which shows that this information can significantly improve parse accuracy.

Word Sense Disambiguation using Optimised Combinations of Knowledge Sources

Word sense disambiguation algorithms, with few exceptions, have made use of only one lexical knowledge source. We describe a system which performs unrestricted word sense disambiguation (on all content words in free text) by combining different knowledge sources: semantic preferences, dictionary definitions and subject/domain codes along with part-of-speech tags. The usefulness of these sources is optimised by means of a learning algorithm. We also describe the creation of a new sense tagged corpus by combining existing resources. Tested accuracy of our approach on this corpus exceeds 92%, demonstrating the viability of all-word disambiguation rather than restricting oneself to a small sample.

Building Accurate Semantic Taxonomies from Monolingual MRDs

This paper presents a method that combines a set of unsupervised algorithms in order to accurately build large taxonomies from any machine-readable dictionary (MRD). Our aim is to profit from conventional MRDs, with no explicit semantic coding. We propose a system that 1) performs fully automatic exraction of taxonomic links from MRD entries and 2) ranks the extracted relations in a way that selective manual refinement is allowed. Tested accuracy can reach around 100% depending on the degree of coverage selected, showing that taxonomy building is not limited to structured dictionaries such as LDOCE.

Using WordNet for Building WordNets

This paper summarises a set of methodologies and techniques for the fast construction of multilingual WordNets. The English WordNet is used in this approach as a backbone for Catalan and Spanish WordNets and as a lexical knowledge resource for several subtasks.

Anchoring a Lexicalized Tree-Adjoining Grammar for Discourse

We here explore a ``fully'' lexicalized Tree-Adjoining Grammar for discourse that takes the basic elements of a (monologic) discourse to be not simply clauses, but larger structures that are anchored on variously realized discourse cues. This link with intra-sentential grammar suggests an account for different patterns of discourse cues, while the different structures and operations suggest three separate sources for elements of discourse meaning: (1) a compositional semantics tied to the basic trees and operations; (2) a presuppositional semantics carried by cue phrases that freely adjoin to trees; and (3) general inference, that draws additional, defeasible conclusions that flesh out what is conveyed compositionally.

Never Look Back: An Alternative to Centering

I propose a model for determining the hearer's attentional state which depends solely on a list of salient discourse entities (S-list). The ordering among the elements of the S-list covers also the function of the backward-looking center in the centering model. The ranking criteria for the S-list are based on the distinction between hearer-old and hearer-new discourse entities and incorporate preferences for inter- and intra-sentential anaphora. The model is the basis for an algorithm which operates incrementally, word by word.

An Empirical Investigation of Proposals in Collaborative Dialogues

We describe a corpus-based investigation of proposals in dialogue. First, we describe our DRI compliant coding scheme and report our inter-coder reliability results. Next, we test several hypotheses about what constitutes a well-formed proposal.

Textual Economy through Close Coupling of Syntax and Semantics

We focus on the production of efficient descriptions of objects, actions and events. We define a type of efficiency, textual economy, that exploits the hearer's recognition of inferential links to material elsewhere within a sentence. Textual economy leads to efficient descriptions because the material that supports such inferences has been included to satisfy independent communicative goals, and is therefore overloaded in Pollack's sense. We argue that achieving textual economy imposes strong requirements on the representation and reasoning used in generating sentences. The representation must support the generator's simultaneous consideration of syntax and semantics. Reasoning must enable the generator to assess quickly and reliably at any stage how the hearer will interpret the current sentence, with its (incomplete) syntax and semantics. We show that these representational and reasoning requirements are met in the SPUD system for sentence planning and realization.

Evaluating a Focus-Based Approach to Anaphora Resolution

We present an approach to anaphora resolution based on a focusing algorithm, and implemented within an existing MUC (Message Understanding Conference) Information Extraction system, allowing quantitative evaluation against a substantial corpus of annotated real-world texts. Extensions to the basic focusing mechanism can be easily tested, resulting in refinements to the mechanism and resolution rules. Results are compared with the results of a simpler heuristic-based approach.

The Role of Verbs in Document Analysis

We present results of two methods for assessing the event profile of news articles as a function of verb type. The unique contribution of this research is the focus on the role of verbs, rather than nouns. Two algorithms are presented and evaluated, one of which is shown to accurately discriminate documents by type and semantic properties, i.e. the event profile. The initial method, using WordNet (Miller et al. 1990), produced multiple cross-classification of articles, primarily due to the bushy nature of the verb tree coupled with the sense disambiguation problem. Our second approach using English Verb Classes and Alternations (EVCA) Levin (1993) showed that monosemous categorization of the frequent verbs in WSJ made it possible to usefully discriminate documents. For example, our results show that articles in which communication verbs predominate tend to be opinion pieces, whereas articles with a high percentage of agreement verbs tend to be about mergers or legal cases. An evaluation is performed on the results using Kendall's Tau. We present convincing evidence for using verb semantic classes as a discriminant in document classification.

Centering in Dynamic Semantics

Centering theory posits a discourse center, a distinguished discourse entity that is the topic of a discourse. A simplified version of this theory is developed in a Dynamic Semantics framework. In the resulting system, the mechanism of center shift allows a simple, elegant analysis of a variety of phenomena involving sloppy identity in ellipsis and ``paycheck pronouns''.

Word Clustering and Disambiguation Based on Co-occurrence Data

We address the problem of clustering words (or constructing a thesaurus) based on co-occurrence data, and using the acquired word classes to improve the accuracy of syntactic disambiguation. We view this problem as that of estimating a joint probability distribution specifying the joint probabilities of word pairs, such as noun verb pairs. We propose an efficient algorithm based on the Minimum Description Length (MDL) principle for estimating such a probability distribution. Our method is a natural extension of those proposed in (Brown et al 92) and (Li & Abe 96), and overcomes their drawbacks while retaining their advantages. We then combined this clustering method with the disambiguation method of (Li & Abe 95) to derive a disambiguation method that makes use of both automatically constructed thesauruses and a hand-made thesaurus. The overall disambiguation accuracy achieved by our method is 85.2%, which compares favorably against the accuracy (82.4%) obtained by the state-of-the-art disambiguation method of (Brill & Resnik 94).

Graph Interpolation Grammars as Context-Free Automata

A derivation step in a Graph Interpolation Grammar has the effect of scanning an input token. This feature, which aims at emulating the incrementality of the natural parser, restricts the formal power of GIGs. This contrasts with the fact that the derivation mechanism involves a context-sensitive device similar to tree adjunction in TAGs. The combined effect of input-driven derivation and restricted context-sensitiveness would be conceivably unfortunate if it turned out that Graph Interpolation Languages did not subsume Context Free Languages while being partially context-sensitive. This report sets about examining relations between CFGs and GIGs, and shows that GILs are a proper superclass of CFLs. It also brings out a strong equivalence between CFGs and GIGs for the class of CFLs. Thus, it lays the basis for meaningfully investigating the amount of context-sensitiveness supported by GIGs, but leaves this investigation for further research.

A Maximum-Entropy Partial Parser for Unrestricted Text

This paper describes a partial parser that assigns syntactic structures to sequences of part-of-speech tags. The program uses the maximum entropy parameter estimation method, which allows a flexible combination of different knowledge sources: the hierarchical structure, parts of speech and phrasal categories. In effect, the parser goes beyond simple bracketing and recognises even fairly complex structures. We give accuracy figures for different applications of the parser.

Chunk Tagger - Statistical Recognition of Noun Phrases

We describe a stochastic approach to partial parsing, i.e., the recognition of syntactic structures of limited depth. The technique utilises Markov Models, but goes beyond usual bracketing approaches, since it is capable of recognising not only the boundaries, but also the internal structure and syntactic category of simple as well as complex NP's, PP's, AP's and adverbials. We compare tagging accuracy for different applications and encoding schemes.

A Linguistically Interpreted Corpus of German Newspaper Text

In this paper, we report on the development of an annotation scheme and annotation tools for unrestricted German text. Our representation format is based on argument structure, but also permits the extraction of other kinds of representations. We discuss several methodological issues and the analysis of some phenomena. Additional focus is on the tools developed in our project and their applications.

A Projection Architecture for Dependency Grammar and How it Compares to LFG

This paper explores commonalities and differences between \dachs, a variant of Dependency Grammar, and Lexical-Functional Grammar. \dachs\ is based on traditional linguistic insights, but on modern mathematical tools, aiming to integrate different knowledge systems (from syntax and semantics) via their coupling to an abstract syntactic primitive, the dependency relation. These knowledge systems correspond rather closely to projections in LFG. We will investigate commonalities arising from the usage of the projection approach in both theories, and point out differences due to the incompatible linguistic premises. The main difference to LFG lies in the motivation and status of the dimensions, and the information coded there. We will argue that LFG confounds different information in one projection, preventing it to achieve a good separation of alternatives and calling the motivation of the projection into question.

Automatically Creating Bilingual Lexicons for Machine Translation from Bilingual Text

A method is presented for automatically augmenting the bilingual lexicon of an existing Machine Translation system, by extracting bilingual entries from aligned bilingual text. The proposed method only relies on the resources already available in the MT system itself. It is based on the use of bilingual lexical templates to match the terminal symbols in the parses of the aligned sentences.

Statistical Models for Unsupervised Prepositional Phrase Attachment

We present several unsupervised statistical models for the prepositional phrase attachment task that approach the accuracy of the best supervised methods for this task. Our unsupervised approach uses a heuristic based on attachment proximity and trains from raw text that is annotated with only part-of-speech tags and morphological base forms, as opposed to attachment information. It is therefore less resource-intensive and more portable than previous corpus-based algorithms proposed for this task. We present results for prepositional phrase attachment in both English and Spanish.

Improving Data Driven Wordclass Tagging by System Combination

In this paper we examine how the differences in modelling between different data driven systems performing the same NLP task can be exploited to yield a higher accuracy than the best individual system. We do this by means of an experiment involving the task of morpho-syntactic wordclass tagging. Four well-known tagger generators (Hidden Markov Model, Memory-Based, Transformation Rules and Maximum Entropy) are trained on the same corpus data. After comparison, their outputs are combined using several voting strategies and second stage classifiers. All combination taggers outperform their best component, with the best combination showing a 19.1% lower error rate than the best individual tagger.

An Empirical Evaluation of Probabilistic Lexicalized Tree Insertion Grammars

We present an empirical study of the applicability of Probabilistic Lexicalized Tree Insertion Grammars (PLTIG), a lexicalized counterpart to Probabilistic Context-Free Grammars (PCFG), to problems in stochastic natural-language processing. Comparing the performance of PLTIGs with non-hierarchical N-gram models and PCFGs, we show that PLTIG combines the best aspects of both, with language modeling capability comparable to N-grams, and improved parsing performance over its non-lexicalized counterpart. Furthermore, training of PLTIGs displays faster convergence than PCFGs.

Indexing with WordNet synsets can improve Text Retrieval

The classical, vector space model for text retrieval is shown to give better results (up to 29% better in our experiments) if WordNet synsets are chosen as the indexing space, instead of word forms. This result is obtained for a manually disambiguated test collection (of queries and documents) derived from the Semcor semantic concordance. The sensitivity of retrieval performance to (automatic) disambiguation errors when indexing documents is also measured. Finally, it is observed that if queries are not disambiguated, indexing by synsets performs (at best) only as good as standard word indexing.

Parallel Strands: A Preliminary Investigation into Mining the Web for Bilingual Text

Parallel corpora are a valuable resource for machine translation, but at present their availability and utility is limited by genre- and domain-specificity, licensing restrictions, and the basic difficulty of locating parallel texts in all but the most dominant of the world's languages. A parallel corpus resource not yet explored is the World Wide Web, which hosts an abundance of pages in parallel translation, offering a potential solution to some of these problems and unique opportunities of its own. This paper presents the necessary first step in that exploration: a method for automatically finding parallel translated documents on the Web. The technique is conceptually simple, fully language independent, and scalable, and preliminary evaluation results indicate that the method may be accurate enough to apply without human intervention.

Word Length Frequency and Distribution in English: Observations, Theory, and Implications for the Construction of Verse Lines

Recent observations in the theory of verse and empirical metrics have suggested that constructing a verse line involves a pattern-matching search through a source text, and that the number of found elements (complete words totaling a specified number of syllables) is given by dividing the total number of words by the mean number of syllables per word in the source text. This paper makes this latter point explicit mathematically, and in the course of this demonstration shows that the word length frequency totals in English output are distributed geometrically (previous researchers reported an adjusted Poisson distribution), and that the sequential distribution is random at the global level, with significant non-randomness in the fine structure. Data from a corpus of just under two million words, and a syllable-count lexicon of 71,000 word-forms is reported. The pattern-matching theory is shown to be internally coherent, and it is observed that some of the analytic techniques described here form a satisfactory test for regular (isometric) lineation in a text.

Combining Expression and Content in Domains for Dialog Managers

We present work in progress on abstracting dialog managers from their domain in order to implement a dialog manager development tool which takes (among other data) a domain description as input and delivers a new dialog manager for the described domain as output. Thereby we will focus on two topics; firstly, the construction of domain descriptions with description logics and secondly, the interpretation of utterances in a given domain.

Isometric Lineation in English Texts: An Empirical and Mathematical Examination of its Character and Consequences

In this paper we build on earlier observations and theory regarding word length frequency and sequential distribution to develop a mathematical characterization of some of the language features distinguishing isometrically lineated text from unlineated text, in other words the features distinguishing isometrical verse from prose. It is shown that the frequency of syllables making complete words produces a flat distribution for prose, while that for verse exhibits peaks at the line length position and subsequent multiples of that position. Data from several verse authors is presented, including a detailed mathematical analysis of the dynamics underlying peak creation, and comments are offered on the processes by which authors construct lines. We note that the word-length sequence of prose is random, whereas lineation necessitates non-random word-length sequencing, and that this has the probable consequence of introducing a degree of randomness into the otherwise highly ordered grammatical sequence. In addition we observe that this effect can be ameliorated by a reduction in the mean word length of the text (confirming earlier observations that verse tends to use shorter words) and the use of lines varying from the core isometrical set. The frequency of variant lines is shown to be coincident with the frequency of polysyllables, suggesting that the use of variant lines is motivated by polysyllabic word placement. The restrictive effects of different line lengths, the relationship between metrical restriction and poetic effect, and the general character of metrical rules are also discussed.

Some Properties of Preposition and Subordinate Conjunction Attachments

Determining the attachments of prepositions and subordinate conjunctions is a key problem in parsing natural language. This paper presents a trainable approach to making these attachments through transformation sequences and error-driven learning. Our approach is broad coverage, and accounts for roughly three times the attachment cases that have previously been handled by corpus-based techniques. In addition, our approach is based on a simplified model of syntax that is more consistent with the practice in current state-of-the-art language processing systems. This paper sketches syntactic and algorithmic details, and presents experimental results on data sets derived from the Penn Treebank. We obtain an attachment accuracy of 75.4% for the general case, the first such corpus-based result to be reported. For the restricted cases previously studied with corpus-based methods, our approach yields an accuracy comparable to current work (83.1%).

Deriving the Predicate-Argument Structure for a Free Word Order Language

In relatively free word order languages, grammatical functions are intricately related to case marking. Assuming an ordered representation of the predicate-argument structure, this work proposes a Combinatory Categorial Grammar formulation of relating surface case cues to categories and types for correctly placing the arguments in the predicate-argument structure. This is achieved by assigning case markers GF-encoding categories. Unlike other CG formulations, type shifting does not proliferate or cause spurious ambiguity. Categories of all argument-encoding grammatical functions follow from the same principle of category assignment. Normal order evaluation of the combinatory form reveals the predicate-argument structure. Application of the method to Turkish is shown.

Letter to Sound Rules for Accented Lexicon Compression

This paper presents trainable methods for generating letter to sound rules from a given lexicon for use in pronouncing out-of-vocabulary words and as a method for lexicon compression.
As the relationship between a string of letters and a string of phonemes representing its pronunciation for many languages is not trivial, we discuss two alignment procedures, one fully automatic and one hand-seeded which produce reasonable alignments of letters to phones.
Top Down Induction Tree models are trained on the aligned entries. We show how combined phoneme/stress prediction is better than separate prediction processes, and still better when including in the model the last phonemes transcribed and part of speech information. For the lexicons we have tested, our models have a word accuracy (including stress) of 78% for OALD, 62% for CMU and 94% for BRULEX. The extremely high scores on the training sets allow substantial size reductions (more than 1/20).
WWW site: http://tcts.fpms.ac.be/synthesis/mbrdico

Primitive Part-of-Speech Tagging using Word Length and Sentential Structure

It has been argued that, when learning a first language, babies use a series of small clues to aid recognition and comprehension, and that one of these clues is word length. In this paper we present a statistical part of speech tagger which trains itself solely on the number of letters in each word in a sentence.

Separating Surface Order and Syntactic Relations in a Dependency Grammar

This paper proposes decoupling the dependency tree from word order, such that surface ordering is not determined by traversing the dependency tree. We develop the notion of a \emph{word order domain structure}, which is linked but structurally dissimilar to the syntactic dependency tree. The proposal results in a lexicalized, declarative, and formally precise description of word order; features which lack previous proposals for dependency grammars. Contrary to other lexicalized approaches to word order, our proposal does not require lexical ambiguities for ordering alternatives.

Partial Evaluation for Efficient Access to Inheritance Lexicons

Multiple default inheritance formalisms for lexicons have attracted much interest in recent years. I propose a new efficient method to access such lexicons. After showing two basic strategies for lookup in inheritance lexicons, a compromise is developed which combines to a large degree (from a practical point of view) the advantages of both strategies and avoids their disadvantages. The method is a kind of (off-line) partial evaluation that makes a subset of inherited information explicit before using the lexicon. I identify the parts of a lexicon which should be evaluated, and show how partial evaluation works for inheritance lexicons. Finally, the theoretical results are confirmed by a complete implementation. Speedups by a factor of 10-100 are reached.

Spotting Prosodic Boundaries in Continuous Speech in French

A radio speech corpus of 9mn has been prosodically marked by a phonetician expert, and non expert listeners. this corpus is large enough to train and test an automatic boundary spotting system, namely a time delay neural network fed with F0 values, vowels and pseudo-syllable durations. Results validate both prosodic marking and automatic spotting of prosodic events.

Error-Driven Pruning of Treebank Grammars for Base Noun Phrase Identification

Finding simple, non-recursive, base noun phrases is an important subtask for many natural language processing applications. While previous empirical methods for base NP identification have been rather complex, this paper instead proposes a very simple algorithm that is tailored to the relative simplicity of the task. In particular, we present a corpus-based approach for finding base NPs by matching part-of-speech tag sequences. The training phase of the algorithm is based on two successful techniques: first the base NP grammar is read from a ``treebank'' corpus; then the grammar is improved by selecting rules with high ``benefit'' scores. Using this simple algorithm with a naive heuristic for matching rules, we achieve surprising accuracy in an evaluation on the Penn Treebank Wall Street Journal.

Segregatory Coordination and Ellipsis in Text Generation

In this paper, we provide an account of how to generate sentences with coordination constructions from clause-sized semantic representations. An algorithm is developed to generate sentences with ellipsis, gapping, right-node-raising, and non-constituent coordination constructions. Various examples from linguistic literature will be used to demonstrate that the algorithm does its job well.

A Variant of Earley Parsing

The Earley algorithm is a widely used parsing method in natural language processing applications. We introduce a variant of Earley parsing that is based on a ``delayed'' recognition of constituents. This allows us to start the recognition of a constituent only in cases in which all of its subconstituents have been found within the input string. This is particularly advantageous in several cases in which partial analysis of a constituent cannot be completed and in general in all cases of productions sharing some suffix of their right-hand sides (even for different left-hand side nonterminals). Although the two algorithms result in the same asymptotic time and space complexity, from a practical perspective our algorithm improves the time and space requirements of the original method, as shown by reported experimental results.

Towards an implementable dependency grammar

The aim of this paper is to define a dependency grammar framework which is both linguistically motivated and computationally parsable. See the demo at http://www.conexor.fi/analysers.html#testing

Some Ontological Principles for Designing Upper Level Lexical Resources

The purpose of this paper is to explore some semantic problems related to the use of linguistic ontologies in information systems, and to suggest some organizing principles aimed to solve such problems. The taxonomic structure of current ontologies is unfortunately quite complicated and hard to understand, especially for what concerns the upper levels. I will focus here on the problem of ISA overloading, which I believe is the main responsible of these difficulties. To this purpose, I will carefully analyze the ontological nature of the categories used in current upper-level structures, considering the necessity of splitting them according to more subtle distinctions or the opportunity of excluding them because of their limited organizational role.

A Comparison of WordNet and Roget's Taxonomy for Measuring Semantic Similarity

This paper presents the results of using Roget's International Thesaurus as the taxonomy in a semantic similarity measurement task. Four similarity metrics were taken from the literature and applied to Roget's The experimental evaluation suggests that the traditional edge counting approach does surprisingly well (a correlation of r=0.88 with a benchmark set of human similarity judgements, with an upper bound of r=0.90 for human subjects performing the same task.)

Non-equilibrium Surface Growth and Scalability of Parallel Algorithms for Large Asynchronous Systems

The scalability of massively parallel algorithms is a fundamental question in computer science. We study the scalability and the efficiency of a conservative massively parallel algorithm for discrete-event simulations where the discrete events are Poisson arrivals. The parallel algorithm is applicable to a wide range of problems, including dynamic Monte Carlo simulations for large asynchronous systems with short-range interactions. The evolution of the simulated time horizon is analogous to a growing and fluctuating surface, and the efficiency of the algorithm corresponds to the density of local minima of this surface. In one dimension we find that the steady state of the macroscopic landscape is governed by the Edwards-Wilkinson Hamiltonian, which implies that the algorithm is scalable. Preliminary results for higher-dimensional logical topologies are discussed.

Statistical mechanics perspective on the phase transition in vertex covering finite-connectivity random graphs

The vertex-cover problem is studied for random graphs $G_{N,cN}$ having $N$ vertices and $cN$ edges. Exact numerical results are obtained by a branch-and-bound algorithm. It is found that a transition in the coverability at a $c$-dependent threshold $x=x_c(c)$ appears, where $xN$ is the cardinality of the vertex cover. This transition coincides with a sharp peak of the typical numerical effort, which is needed to decide whether there exists a cover with $xN$ vertices or not. For small edge concentrations $c\ll 0.5$, a cluster expansion is performed, giving very accurate results in this regime. These results are extended using methods developed in statistical physics. The so called annealed approximation reproduces a rigorous bound on $x_c(c)$ which was known previously. The main part of the paper contains an application of the replica method. Within the replica symmetric ansatz the threshold $x_c(c)$ and the critical backbone size $b_c(c)$ can be calculated. For $c<e/2$ the results show an excellent agreement with the numerical findings. At average vertex degree $2c=e$, an instability of the simple replica symmetric solution occurs.

Occam factors and model-independent Bayesian learning of continuous distributions

Learning of a smooth but nonparametric probability density can be regularized using methods of Quantum Field Theory. We implement a field theoretic prior numerically, test its efficacy, and show that the data and the phase space factors arising from the integration over the model space determine the free parameter of the theory ("smoothness scale") self-consistently. This persists even for distributions that are atypical in the prior and is a step towards a model-independent theory for learning continuous distributions. Finally, we point out that a wrong parameterization of a model family may sometimes be advantageous for small data sets.

Intentional Walks on Scale Free Small Worlds

We present a novel algorithm that generates scale free small world graphs such as those found in the World Wide Web,social and metabolic networks. We use the generated graphs to study the dynamics of a realistic search strategy on the graphs, and find that they can be navigated in a very short number of steps.

Entropic analysis of the role of words in literary texts

Beyond the local constraints imposed by grammar, words concatenated in long sequences carrying a complex message show statistical regularities that may reflect their linguistic role in the message. In this paper, we perform a systematic statistical analysis of the use of words in literary English corpora. We show that there is a quantitative relation between the role of content words in literary English and the Shannon information entropy defined over an appropriate probability distribution. Without assuming any previous knowledge about the syntactic structure of language, we are able to cluster certain groups of words according to their specific role in the text.

Going through Rough Times: from Non-Equilibrium Surface Growth to Algorithmic Scalability

Efficient and faithful parallel simulation of large asynchronous systems is a challenging computational problem. It requires using the concept of local simulated times and a synchronization scheme. We study the scalability of massively parallel algorithms for discrete-event simulations which employ conservative synchronization to enforce causality. We do this by looking at the simulated time horizon as a complex evolving system, and we identify its universal characteristics. We find that the time horizon for the conservative parallel discrete-event simulation scheme exhibits Kardar-Parisi-Zhang-like kinetic roughening. This implies that the algorithm is asymptotically scalable in the sense that the average progress rate of the simulation approaches a non-zero constant. It also implies, however, that there are diverging memory requirements associated with such schemes.

Threshold Disorder as a Source of Diverse and Complex Behavior in Random Nets

We study the diversity of complex spatio-temporal patterns in the behavior of random synchronous asymmetric neural networks (RSANNs). Special attention is given to the impact of disordered threshold values on limit-cycle diversity and limit-cycle complexity in RSANNs which have `normal' thresholds by default. Surprisingly, RSANNs exhibit only a small repertoire of rather complex limit-cycle patterns when all parameters are fixed. This repertoire of complex patterns is also rather stable with respect to small parameter changes. These two unexpected results may generalize to the study of other complex systems. In order to reach beyond this seemingly-disabling `stable and small' aspect of the limit-cycle repertoire of RSANNs, we have found that if an RSANN has threshold disorder above a critical level, then there is a rapid increase of the size of the repertoire of patterns. The repertoire size initially follows a power-law function of the magnitude of the threshold disorder. As the disorder increases further, the limit-cycle patterns themselves become simpler until at a second critical level most of the limit cycles become simple fixed points. Nonetheless, for moderate changes in the threshold parameters, RSANNs are found to display specific features of behavior desired for rapidly-responding processing systems: accessibility to a large set of complex patterns.

Extended Comment on Language Trees and Zipping

This is the extended version of a Comment submitted to Physical Review Letters. I first point out the inappropriateness of publishing a Letter unrelated to physics. Next, I give experimental results showing that the technique used in the Letter is 3 times worse and 17 times slower than a simple baseline. And finally, I review the literature, showing that the ideas of the Letter are not novel. I conclude by suggesting that Physical Review Letters should not publish Letters unrelated to physics.

Accelerated growth of networks

In many real growing networks the mean number of connections per vertex increases with time. The Internet, the Word Wide Web, collaboration networks, and many others display this behavior. Such a growth can be called {\em accelerated}. We show that this acceleration influences distribution of connections and may determine the structure of a network. We discuss general consequences of the acceleration and demonstrate its features applying simple illustrating examples. In particular, we show that the accelerated growth fairly well explains the structure of the Word Web (the network of interacting words of human language). Also, we use the models of the accelerated growth of networks to describe a wealth condensation transition in evolving societies.

Local Search in Unstructured Networks

We review a number of message-passing algorithms that can be used to search through power-law networks. Most of these algorithms are meant to be improvements for peer-to-peer file sharing systems, and some may also shed some light on how unstructured social networks with certain topologies might function relatively efficiently with local information. Like the networks that they are designed for, these algorithms are completely decentralized, and they exploit the power-law link distribution in the node degree. We demonstrate that some of these search algorithms can work well on real Gnutella networks, scale sub-linearly with the number of nodes, and may help reduce the network search traffic that tends to cripple such networks.

Internet topology at the router and autonomous system level

We present a statistical analysis of different metrics characterizing the topological properties of Internet maps, collected at two different resolution scales: the router and the autonomous system level. The metrics we consider allow us to confirm the presence of scale-free signatures in several statistical distributions, as well as to show in a quantitative way the hierarchical nature of the Internet. Our findings are relevant for the development of more accurate Internet topology generators, which should include, along with the scale-free properties of the connectivity distribution, the hierarchical signatures unveiled in the present work.

Alternative solutions to diluted p-spin models and XORSAT problems

We derive analytical solutions for p-spin models with finite connectivity at zero temperature. These models are the statistical mechanics equivalent of p-XORSAT problems in theoretical computer science. We give a full characterization of the phase diagram: location of the phase transitions (static and dynamic), together with a description of the clustering phenomenon taking place in configurational space. We use two alternative methods: the cavity approach and a rigorous derivation.

On the Prospects of Chaos Aware Traffic Modeling

In this paper the chaotic properties of the TCP congestion avoidance mechanism are investigated. The analysis focuses on the origin of the complex behavior appearing in deterministic TCP/IP networks. From the traffic modeling point of view the understanding of the mechanism generating chaos is essential, since present models are unable to cope with this phenomena. Using the basic tools of chaos theory in our study, the main characteristics of chaotic dynamics are revealed. The dynamics of packet loss events is studied by a simple symbolic description. The cellular structure of the phase space of congestion windows is shown. This implies periodic behavior for large time scales. Chaotic behavior in short time scales and periodicity for larger times makes it necessary to develop models that account for both. Thus a simple model that describes the congestion window dynamics according to fluid equations, but handles the packet loss events separately is introduced. This model can reproduce the basic features observed in realistic packet level simulations.

Approaches to Network Classification

We introduce a novel approach to description of networks/graphs. It is based on an analogue physical model which is dynamically evolved. This evolution depends on the connectivity matrix and readily brings out many qualitative features of the graph.

Graph equivalence and characterization via a continuous evolution of a physical analog

A general novel approach mapping discrete, combinatorial, graph-theoretic problems onto ``physical'' models - namely $n$ simplexes in $n-1$ dimensions - is applied to the graph equivalence problem. It is shown to solve this long standing problem in polynomial, short, time.

A Novel Approach Applied to the Largest Clique Problem

A novel approach to complex problems has been previously applied to graph classification and the graph equivalence problem. Here we apply it to the NP complete problem of finding the largest perfect clique within a graph $G$.

Evolution of Cooperation in a Spatial Prisoner's Dilemma

We investigate the spatial distribution and the global frequency of agents who can either cooperate or defect. The agent interaction is described by a deterministic, non-iterated prisoner's dilemma game, further each agent only locally interacts with his neighbors. Based on a detailed analysis of the local payoff structures we derive critical conditions for the invasion or the spatial coexistence of cooperators and defectors. These results are concluded in a phase diagram that allows to identify five regimes, each characterized by a distinct spatiotemporal dynamics and a corresponding final spatial structure. In addition to the complete invasion of defectors, we find coexistence regimes with either a majority of cooperators in large spatial domains, or a minority of cooperators organized in small non-stationary domains or in small clusters. The analysis further allowed a verification of computer simulation results by Nowak and May (1993). Eventually, we present simulation results of a true 5-person game on a lattice. This modification leads to non-uniform spatial interactions that may even enhance the effect of cooperation. Keywords: Prisoner's dilemma; cooperation; spatial 5-person game

Collectives for the Optimal Combination of Imperfect Objects

In this letter we summarize some recent theoretical work on the design of collectives, i.e., of systems containing many agents, each of which can be viewed as trying to maximize an associated private utility, where there is also a world utility rating the behavior of that overall system that the designer of the collective wishes to optimize. We then apply algorithms based on that work on a recently suggested testbed for such optimization problems (Challet & Johnson, PRL, vol 89, 028701 2002). This is the problem of finding the combination of imperfect nano-scale objects that results in the best aggregate object. We present experimental results showing that these algorithms outperform conventional methods by more than an order of magnitude in this domain.

Suppressing Roughness of Virtual Times in Parallel Discrete-Event Simulations

In a parallel discrete-event simulation (PDES) scheme, tasks are distributed among processing elements (PEs), whose progress is controlled by a synchronization scheme. For lattice systems with short-range interactions, the progress of the conservative PDES scheme is governed by the Kardar-Parisi-Zhang equation from the theory of non-equilibrium surface growth. Although the simulated (virtual) times of the PEs progress at a nonzero rate, their standard deviation (spread) diverges with the number of PEs, hindering efficient data collection. We show that weak random interactions among the PEs can make this spread nondivergent. The PEs then progress at a nonzero, near-uniform rate without requiring global synchronizations.

Phase Diagram for the Constrained Integer Partitioning Problem

We consider the problem of partitioning $n$ integers into two subsets of given cardinalities such that the discrepancy, the absolute value of the difference of their sums, is minimized. The integers are i.i.d. random variables chosen uniformly from the set $\{1,...,M\}$. We study how the typical behavior of the optimal partition depends on $n,M$ and the bias $s$, the difference between the cardinalities of the two subsets in the partition. In particular, we rigorously establish this typical behavior as a function of the two parameters $κ:=n^{-1}\log_2M$ and $b:=|s|/n$ by proving the existence of three distinct ``phases'' in the $κb$-plane, characterized by the value of the discrepancy and the number of optimal solutions: a ``perfect phase'' with exponentially many optimal solutions with discrepancy 0 or 1; a ``hard phase'' with minimal discrepancy of order $Me^{-Θ(n)}$; and a ``sorted phase'' with an unique optimal partition of order $Mn$, obtained by putting the $(s+n)/2$ smallest integers in one subset. Our phase diagram covers all but a relatively small region in the $κb$-plane. We also show that the three phases can be alternatively characterized by the number of basis solutions of the associated linear programming problem, and by the fraction of these basis solutions whose $\pm 1$-valued components form optimal integer partitions of the subproblem with the corresponding weights. We show in particular that this fraction is one in the sorted phase, and exponentially small in both the perfect and hard phases, and strictly exponentially smaller in the hard phase than in the perfect phase. Open problems are discussed, and numerical experiments are presented.

Neural network modeling of data with gaps: method of principal curves, Carleman's formula, and other

A method of modeling data with gaps by a sequence of curves has been developed. The new method is a generalization of iterative construction of singular expansion of matrices with gaps. Under discussion are three versions of the method featuring clear physical interpretation: linear - modeling the data by a sequence of linear manifolds of small dimension; quasilinear - constructing "principal curves: (or "principal surfaces"), univalently projected on the linear principal components; essentially non-linear - based on constructing "principal curves": (principal strings and beams) employing the variation principle; the iteration implementation of this method is close to Kohonen self-organizing maps. The derived dependencies are extrapolated by Carleman's formulas. The method is interpreted as a construction of neural network conveyor designed to solve the following problems: to fill gaps in data; to repair data - to correct initial data values in such a way as to make the constructed models work best; to construct a calculator to fill gaps in the data line fed to the input.

Seven clusters in genomic triplet distributions

In several recent papers new gene-detection algorithms were proposed for detecting protein-coding regions without requiring learning dataset of already known genes. The fact that unsupervised gene-detection is possible closely connected to existence of a cluster structure in oligomer frequency distributions. In this paper we study cluster structure of several genomes in the space of their triplet frequencies, using pure data exploration strategy. Several complete genomic sequences were analyzed, using visualization of tables of triplet frequencies in a sliding window. The distribution of 64-dimensional vectors of triplet frequencies displays a well-detectable cluster structure. The structure was found to consist of seven clusters, corresponding to protein-coding information in three possible phases in one of the two complementary strands and in the non-coding regions with high accuracy (higher than 90% on the nucleotide level). Visualizing and understanding the structure allows to analyze effectively performance of different gene-prediction tools. Since the method does not require extraction of ORFs, it can be applied even for unassembled genomes. The information content of the triplet distributions and the validity of the mean-field models are analysed.

Update statistics in conservative parallel discrete event simulations of asynchronous systems

We model the performance of an ideal closed chain of L processing elements that work in parallel in an asynchronous manner. Their state updates follow a generic conservative algorithm. The conservative update rule determines the growth of a virtual time surface. The physics of this growth is reflected in the utilization (the fraction of working processors) and in the interface width. We show that it is possible to nake an explicit connection between the utilization and the macroscopic structure of the virtual time interface. We exploit this connection to derive the theoretical probability distribution of updates in the system within an approximate model. It follows that the theoretical lower bound for the computational speed-up is s=(L+1)/4 for L>3. Our approach uses simple statistics to count distinct surface configuration classes consistent with the model growth rule. It enables one to compute analytically microscopic properties of an interface, which are unavailable by continuum methods.

Closed source versus open source in a model of software bug dynamics

We introduce a simple microscopic description of software bug dynamics where users, programmers and a maintainer interact through a given program, with a particular emphasis on bug creation, detection and fixing. When the program is written from scratch, the first phase of development is characterized by a fast decline of the number of bugs, followed by a slow phase where most bugs have been fixed, hence, are hard to find. Releasing immediately bug fixes speeds up the debugging process, which substantiates bazaar open-source methodology. We provide a mathematical analysis that supports our numerical simulations. Finally, we apply our model to Linux history and determine the existence of a lower bound to the quality of its programmers.

Finite size scaling approach to dynamic storage allocation problem

It is demonstrated how dynamic storage allocation algorithms can be analyzed in terms of finite size scaling. The method is illustrated in the three simple cases of the it first-fit, next-fit and it best-fit algorithms, and the system works at full capacity. The analysis is done from two different points of view - running speed and employed memory. In both cases, and for all algorithms, it is shown that a simple scaling function exists and the relevant exponents are calculated. The method can be applied on similar problems as well.

Generation of Explicit Knowledge from Empirical Data through Pruning of Trainable Neural Networks

This paper presents a generalized technology of extraction of explicit knowledge from data. The main ideas are 1) maximal reduction of network complexity (not only removal of neurons or synapses, but removal all the unnecessary elements and signals and reduction of the complexity of elements), 2) using of adjustable and flexible pruning process (the pruning sequence shouldn't be predetermined - the user should have a possibility to prune network on his own way in order to achieve a desired network structure for the purpose of extraction of rules of desired type and form), and 3) extraction of rules not in predetermined but any desired form. Some considerations and notes about network architecture and training process and applicability of currently developed pruning techniques and rule extraction algorithms are discussed. This technology, being developed by us for more than 10 years, allowed us to create dozens of knowledge-based expert systems. In this paper we present a generalized three-step technology of extraction of explicit knowledge from empirical data.

Product Distribution Field Theory

This paper presents a novel way to approximate a distribution governing a system of coupled particles with a product of independent distributions. The approach is an extension of mean field theory that allows the independent distributions to live in a different space from the system, and thereby capture statistical dependencies in that system. It also allows different Hamiltonians for each independent distribution, to facilitate Monte Carlo estimation of those distributions. The approach leads to a novel energy-minimization algorithm in which each coordinate Monte Carlo estimates an associated spectrum, and then independently sets its state by sampling a Boltzmann distribution across that spectrum. It can also be used for high-dimensional numerical integration, (constrained) combinatorial optimization, and adaptive distributed control. This approach also provides a simple, physics-based derivation of the powerful approximate energy-minimization algorithms semi-formally derived in \cite{wowh00, wotu02c, wolp03a}. In addition it suggests many improvements to those algorithms, and motivates a new (bounded rationality) game theory equilibrium concept.

Random k-SAT: Two Moments Suffice to Cross a Sharp Threshold

Many NP-complete constraint satisfaction problems appear to undergo a "phase transition'' from solubility to insolubility when the constraint density passes through a critical threshold. In all such cases it is easy to derive upper bounds on the location of the threshold by showing that above a certain density the first moment (expectation) of the number of solutions tends to zero. We show that in the case of certain symmetric constraints, considering the second moment of the number of solutions yields nearly matching lower bounds for the location of the threshold. Specifically, we prove that the threshold for both random hypergraph 2-colorability (Property B) and random Not-All-Equal k-SAT is 2^{k-1} ln 2 -O(1). As a corollary, we establish that the threshold for random k-SAT is of order Theta(2^k), resolving a long-standing open problem.

Extremal Properties of Random Structures

The extremal characteristics of random structures, including trees, graphs, and networks, are discussed. A statistical physics approach is employed in which extremal properties are obtained through suitably defined rate equations. A variety of unusual time dependences and system-size dependences for basic extremal properties are obtained.

A theoretical investigation of ferromagnetic tunnel junctions with 4-valued conductances

In considering a novel function in ferromagnetic tunnel junctions consisting of ferromagnet(FM)/barrier/FM junctions, we theoretically investigate multiple valued (or multi-level) cell property, which is in principle realized by sensing conductances of four states recorded with magnetization configurations of two FMs; that is, (up,up), (up,down), (down,up), (down,down). To obtain such 4-valued conductances, we propose FM1/spin-polarized barrier/FM2 junctions, where the FM1 and FM2 are different ferromagnets, and the barrier has spin dependence. The proposed idea is applied to the case of the barrier having localized spins. Assuming that all the localized spins are pinned parallel to magnetization axes of the FM1 and FM2, 4-valued conductances are explicitly obtained for the case of many localized spins. Furthermore, objectives for an ideal spin-polarized barrier are discussed.

Exploration of scale-free networks

The increased availability of data on real networks has favoured an explosion of activity in the elaboration of models able to reproduce both qualitatively and quantitatively the measured properties. What has been less explored is the reliability of the data, and whether the measurement technique biases them. Here we show that tree-like explorations (similar in principle to traceroute) can indeed change the measured exponents of a scale-free network.

Chaos and Annealing in Social networks

In this work we compare social clusters with spin clusters and compare different properties. We also try to compare phase changes in market and labor stratification with phase changes of spin clusters. Then we compare the requisites for redrawing the boundaries of social clusters with respect to energy minimization and efficiency. We finally do a simulation experiment and show that by choosing suitable link matrices for agents and attributes of the same and of different agents it is possible to have at the same time behavior similar to chaos or punctuated equilibrium in some attributes or fairly regular oscillations of preferences for other attributes, using greatest utility or efficiency as a criterion for change in conflicting social networks with different agents having different preferences with respect to the attributes in the agent himself or with similar attributes in other agents.

Competition-Induced Preferential Attachment

Models based on preferential attachment have had much success in reproducing the power law degree distributions which seem ubiquitous in both natural and engineered systems. Here, rather than assuming preferential attachment, we give an explanation of how it can arise from a more basic underlying mechanism of competition between opposing forces.
We introduce a family of one-dimensional geometric growth models, constructed iteratively by locally optimizing the tradeoffs between two competing metrics. This family admits an equivalent description as a graph process with no reference to the underlying geometry. Moreover, the resulting graph process is shown to be preferential attachment with an upper cutoff. We rigorously determine the degree distribution for the family of random graph models, showing that it obeys a power law up to a finite threshold and decays exponentially above this threshold.
We also introduce and rigorously analyze a generalized version of our graph process, with two natural parameters, one corresponding to the cutoff and the other a ``fertility'' parameter. Limiting cases of this process include the standard Barabasi-Albert preferential attachment model and the uniform attachment model. In the general case, we prove that the process has a power law degree distribution up to a cutoff, and establish monotonicity of the power as a function of the two parameters.

Information Theory - The Bridge Connecting Bounded Rational Game Theory and Statistical Physics

A long-running difficulty with conventional game theory has been how to modify it to accommodate the bounded rationality of all real-world players. A recurring issue in statistical physics is how best to approximate joint probability distributions with decoupled (and therefore far more tractable) distributions. This paper shows that the same information theoretic mathematical structure, known as Product Distribution (PD) theory, addresses both issues. In this, PD theory not only provides a principled formulation of bounded rationality and a set of new types of mean field theory in statistical physics. It also shows that those topics are fundamentally one and the same.

Unicyclic Components in Random Graphs

The distribution of unicyclic components in a random graph is obtained analytically. The number of unicyclic components of a given size approaches a self-similar form in the vicinity of the gelation transition. At the gelation point, this distribution decays algebraically, U_k ~ 1/(4k) for k>>1. As a result, the total number of unicyclic components grows logarithmically with the system size.

Threshold values, stability analysis and high-q asymptotics for the coloring problem on random graphs

We consider the problem of coloring Erdos-Renyi and regular random graphs of finite connectivity using q colors. It has been studied so far using the cavity approach within the so-called one-step replica symmetry breaking (1RSB) ansatz. We derive a general criterion for the validity of this ansatz and, applying it to the ground state, we provide evidence that the 1RSB solution gives exact threshold values c_q for the q-COL/UNCOL phase transition. We also study the asymptotic thresholds for q >> 1 finding c_q = 2qlog(q)-log(q)-1+o(1) in perfect agreement with rigorous mathematical bounds, as well as the nature of excited states, and give a global phase diagram of the problem.

The shortest path to complex networks

1. The birth of network science. 2. What are random networks? 3. Adjacency matrix. 4. Degree distribution. 5. What are simple networks? Classical random graphs. 6. Birth of the giant component. 7. Topology of the Web. 8.Uncorrelated networks. 9. What are small worlds? 10. Real networks are mesoscopic objects. 11. What are complex networks? 12. The configuration model. 13. The absence of degree--degree correlations. 14.Networks with correlated degrees.15.Clustering. 16. What are small-world networks? 17. `Small worlds' is not the same as `small-world networks'. 18. Fat-tailed degree distributions. 19.Reasons for the fat-tailed degree distributions. 20. Preferential linking. 21. Condensation of edges. 22. Cut-offs of degree distributions. 23. Reasons for correlations in networks. 24. Classical random graphs cannot be used for comparison with real networks. 25. How to measure degree--degree correlations. 26. Assortative and disassortative mixing. 27. Disassortative mixing does not mean that vertices of high degrees rarely connect to each other. 28. Reciprocal links in directed nets. 29. Ultra-small-world effect. 30. Tree ansatz. 31.Ultraresilience against random failures. 32. When correlated nets are ultraresilient. 33. Vulnerability of complex networks. 34. The absence of an epidemic threshold. 35. Search based on local information. 36.Ultraresilience disappears in finite nets. 37.Critical behavior of cooperative models on networks. 38. Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless phase transitions in networks. 39.Cascading failures. 40.Cliques & communities. 41. Betweenness. 42.Extracting communities. 43. Optimal paths. 44.Distributions of the shortest-path length & of the loop's length are narrow. 45. Diffusion on networks. 46. What is modularity? 47.Hierarchical organization of networks. 48. Convincing modelling of real-world networks:Is it possible? 49. The small Web..

A statistical approach to the traceroute-like exploration of networks: theory and simulations

Mapping the Internet generally consists in sampling the network from a limited set of sources by using "traceroute"-like probes. This methodology, akin to the merging of different spanning trees to a set of destinations, has been argued to introduce uncontrolled sampling biases that might produce statistical properties of the sampled graph which sharply differ from the original ones. Here we explore these biases and provide a statistical analysis of their origin. We derive a mean-field analytical approximation for the probability of edge and vertex detection that exploits the role of the number of sources and targets and allows us to relate the global topological properties of the underlying network with the statistical accuracy of the sampled graph. In particular we find that the edge and vertex detection probability is depending on the betweenness centrality of each element. This allows us to show that shortest path routed sampling provides a better characterization of underlying graphs with scale-free topology. We complement the analytical discussion with a throughout numerical investigation of simulated mapping strategies in different network models. We show that sampled graphs provide a fair qualitative characterization of the statistical properties of the original networks in a fair range of different strategies and exploration parameters. The numerical study also allows the identification of intervals of the exploration parameters that optimize the fraction of nodes and edges discovered in the sampled graph. This finding might hint the steps toward more efficient mapping strategies.

A Theoretical Study on Spin-Dependent Transport of "Ferromagnet/Carbon Nanotube Encapsulating Magnetic Atoms/Ferromagnet" Junctions with 4-Valued Conductances

As a novel function of ferromagnet (FM)/spacer/FM junctions, we theoretically investigate multiple-valued (or multi-level) cell property, which is in principle realized by sensing conductances of four states recorded with magnetization configurations of two FMs; (up,up), (up,down), (down,up), (down,down). In order to sense all the states, 4-valued conductances corresponding to the respective states are necessary. We previously proposed that 4-valued conductances are obtained in FM1/spin-polarized spacer (SPS)/FM2 junctions, where FM1 and FM2 have different spin polarizations, and the spacer depends on spin [J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 15, 8797 (2003)]. In this paper, an ideal SPS is considered as a single-wall armchair carbon nanotube encapsulating magnetic atoms, where the nanotube shows on-resonance or off-resonance at the Fermi level according to its length. The magnitude of the obtained 4-valued conductances has an opposite order between the on-resonant nanotube and the off-resonant one, and this property can be understood by considering electronic states of the nanotube. Also, the magnetoresistance ratio between (up,up) and (down,down) can be larger than the conventional one between parallel and anti-parallel configurations.

Poisson convergence in the restricted $k$-partioning problem

The randomized $k$-number partitioning problem is the task to distribute $N$ i.i.d. random variables into $k$ groups in such a way that the sums of the variables in each group are as similar as possible. The restricted $k$-partitioning problem refers to the case where the number of elements in each group is fixed to $N/k$. In the case $k=2$ it has been shown that the properly rescaled differences of the two sums in the close to optimal partitions converge to a Poisson point process, as if they were independent random variables. We generalize this result to the case $k>2$ in the restricted problem and show that the vector of differences between the $k$ sums converges to a $k-1$-dimensional Poisson point process.

A Computational Study of Rotating Spiral Waves and Spatio-Temporal Transient Chaos in a Deterministic Three-Level Active System

Spatio-temporal dynamics of a deterministic three-level cellular automaton (TLCA) of Zykov-Mikhailov type (Sov. Phys. - Dokl., 1986, Vol.31, No.1, P.51) is studied numerically. Evolution of spatial structures is investigated both for the original Zykov-Mikhailov model (which is applicable to, for example, Belousov-Zhabotinskii chemical reactions) and for proposed by us TLCA, which is a generalization of Zykov-Mikhailov model for the case of two-channel diffusion. Such the TLCA is a minimal model for an excitable medium of microwave phonon laser, called phaser (D. N. Makovetskii, Tech. Phys., 2004, Vol.49, No.2, P.224; cond-mat/0402640). The most interesting observed forms of TLCA dynamics are as follows: (a) spatio-temporal transient chaos in form of highly bottlenecked collective evolution of excitations by rotating spiral waves (RSW) with variable topological charges; (b) competition of left-handed and right-handed RSW with unexpected features, including self-induced alteration of integral effective topological charge; (c) transient chimera states, i.e. coexistence of regular and chaotic domains in TLCA patterns; (d) branching of TLCA states with different symmetry which may lead to full restoring of symmetry of imperfect starting pattern. Phenomena (a) and (c) are directly related to phaser dynamics features observed earlier in real experiments at liquid helium temperatures on corundum crystals doped by iron-group ions. ACM: F.1.1, I.6, J.2; PACS:05.65.+b, 07.05.Tp, 82.20.Wt

A model of student's dilemma

Each year perhaps millions of young people face the following dilemma: should I continue my education or rather start working with already acquired skills. Right decision must take into account somebody's own abilities, accessibility to education institutions, competition, and potential benefits. A multi-agent, evolutionary model of this dilemma predicts a transition between stratified and homogeneous phases, evolution that diminishes fitness, fewer applicants per seat for decreased capacity of the university, and presence of poor students at élite universities.

Spin dependent transport of ``nonmagnetic metal/zigzag nanotube encapsulating magnetic atoms/nonmagnetic metal'' junctions

Towards a novel magnetoresistance (MR) device with a carbon nanotube, we propose ``nonmagnetic metal/zigzag nanotube encapsulating magnetic atoms/nonmagnetic metal'' junctions. We theoretically investigate how spin-polarized edges of the nanotube and the encapsulated magnetic atoms influence on transport. When the on-site Coulomb energy divided by the magnitude of transfer integral, $U/|t|$, is larger than 0.8, large MR effect due to the direction of spins of magnetic atoms, which has the magnitude of the MR ratio of about 100%, appears reflecting such spin-polarized edges.

Degree Distribution of Competition-Induced Preferential Attachment Graphs

We introduce a family of one-dimensional geometric growth models, constructed iteratively by locally optimizing the tradeoffs between two competing metrics, and show that this family is equivalent to a family of preferential attachment random graph models with upper cutoffs. This is the first explanation of how preferential attachment can arise from a more basic underlying mechanism of local competition. We rigorously determine the degree distribution for the family of random graph models, showing that it obeys a power law up to a finite threshold and decays exponentially above this threshold.
We also rigorously analyze a generalized version of our graph process, with two natural parameters, one corresponding to the cutoff and the other a ``fertility'' parameter. We prove that the general model has a power-law degree distribution up to a cutoff, and establish monotonicity of the power as a function of the two parameters. Limiting cases of the general model include the standard preferential attachment model without cutoff and the uniform attachment model.

Clustering of solutions in the random satisfiability problem

Using elementary rigorous methods we prove the existence of a clustered phase in the random $K$-SAT problem, for $K\geq 8$. In this phase the solutions are grouped into clusters which are far away from each other. The results are in agreement with previous predictions of the cavity method and give a rigorous confirmation to one of its main building blocks. It can be generalized to other systems of both physical and computational interest.

Disaster Management in Scale-Free Networks: Recovery from and Protection Against Intentional Attacks

Susceptibility of scale free Power Law (PL) networks to attacks has been traditionally studied in the context of what may be termed as {\em instantaneous attacks}, where a randomly selected set of nodes and edges are deleted while the network is kept {\em static}. In this paper, we shift the focus to the study of {\em progressive} and instantaneous attacks on {\em reactive} grown and random PL networks, which can respond to attacks and take remedial steps. In the process, we present several techniques that managed networks can adopt to minimize the damages during attacks, and also to efficiently recover from the aftermath of successful attacks. For example, we present (i) compensatory dynamics that minimize the damages inflicted by targeted progressive attacks, such as linear-preferential deletions of nodes in grown PL networks; the resulting dynamic naturally leads to the emergence of networks with PL degree distributions with exponential cutoffs; (ii) distributed healing algorithms that can scale the maximum degree of nodes in a PL network using only local decisions, and (iii) efficient means of creating giant connected components in a PL network that has been fragmented by attacks on a large number of high-degree nodes. Such targeted attacks are considered to be a major vulnerability of PL networks; however, our results show that the introduction of only a small number of random edges, through a {\em reverse percolation} process, can restore connectivity, which in turn allows restoration of other topological properties of the original network. Thus, the scale-free nature of the networks can itself be effectively utilized for protection and recovery purposes.

A Universal Scaling Theory for Complexity of Analog Computation

We discuss the computational complexity of solving linear programming problems by means of an analog computer. The latter is modeled by a dynamical system which converges to the optimal vertex solution. We analyze various probability ensembles of linear programming problems. For each one of these we obtain numerically the probability distribution functions of certain quantities which measure the complexity. Remarkably, in the asymptotic limit of very large problems, each of these probability distribution functions reduces to a universal scaling function, depending on a single scaling variable and independent of the details of its parent probability ensemble. These functions are reminiscent of the scaling functions familiar in the theory of phase transitions. The results reported here extend analytical and numerical results obtained recently for the Gaussian ensemble.

Algorithmic Complexity in Minority Game

In this paper we introduce a new approach for the study of the complex behavior of Minority Game using the tools of algorithmic complexity, physical entropy and information theory. We show that physical complexity and mutual information function strongly depend on memory size of the agents and yields more information about the complex features of the stream of binary outcomes of the game than volatility itself.

Ocular dominance patterns in mammalian visual cortex: A wire length minimization approach

We propose a theory for ocular dominance (OD) patterns in mammalian primary visual cortex. This theory is based on the premise that OD pattern is an adaptation to minimize the length of intra-cortical wiring. Thus we can understand the existing OD patterns by solving a wire length minimization problem. We divide all the neurons into two classes: left-eye dominated and right-eye dominated. We find that segregation of neurons into monocular regions reduces wire length if the number of connections with the neurons of the same class differs from that with the other class. The shape of the regions depends on the relative fraction of neurons in the two classes. If the numbers are close we find that the optimal OD pattern consists of interdigitating stripes. If one class is less numerous than the other, the optimal OD pattern consists of patches of the first class neurons in the sea of the other class neurons. We predict the transition from stripes to patches when the fraction of neurons dominated by the ipsilateral eye is about 40%. This prediction agrees with the data in macaque and Cebus monkeys. This theory can be applied to other binary cortical systems.

From Massively Parallel Algorithms and Fluctuating Time Horizons to Non-equilibrium Surface Growth

We study the asymptotic scaling properties of a massively parallel algorithm for discrete-event simulations where the discrete events are Poisson arrivals. The evolution of the simulated time horizon is analogous to a non-equilibrium surface. Monte Carlo simulations and a coarse-grained approximation indicate that the macroscopic landscape in the steady state is governed by the Edwards-Wilkinson Hamiltonian. Since the efficiency of the algorithm corresponds to the density of local minima in the associated surface, our results imply that the algorithm is asymptotically scalable.

Von Neumann Quantum Logic vs. Classical von Neumann Architecture?

The name of John von Neumann is common both in quantum mechanics and computer science. Are they really two absolutely unconnected areas? Many works devoted to quantum computations and communications are serious argument to suggest about existence of such a relation, but it is impossible to touch the new and active theme in a short review. In the paper are described the structures and models of linear algebra and just due to their generality it is possible to use universal description of very different areas as quantum mechanics and theory of Bayesian image analysis, associative memory, neural networks, fuzzy logic.

Minimum Description Length and Compositionality

We present a non-vacuous definition of compositionality. It is based on the idea of combining the minimum description length principle with the original definition of compositionality (that is, that the meaning of the whole is a function of the meaning of the parts).
The new definition is intuitive and allows us to distinguish between compositional and non-compositional semantics, and between idiomatic and non-idiomatic expressions. It is not ad hoc, since it does not make any references to non-intrinsic properties of meaning functions (like being a polynomial). Moreover, it allows us to compare different meaning functions with respect to how compositional they are. It bridges linguistic and corpus-based, statistical approaches to natural language understanding.

Why C++ is not very fit for GUI programming

With no intent of starting a holy war, this paper lists several annoying C++ birthmarks that the author has come across developing GUI class libraries. C++'s view of classes, instances and hierarchies appears tantalizingly close to GUI concepts of controls, widgets, window classes and subwindows. OO models of C++ and of a window system are however different. C++ was designed to be a "static" language with a lexical name scoping, static type checking and hierarchies defined at compile time. Screen objects on the other hand are inherently dynamic; they usually live well beyond the procedure/block that created them; the hierarchy of widgets is defined to a large extent by layout, visibility and event flow. Many GUI fundamentals such as dynamic and geometric hierarchies of windows and controls, broadcasting and percolation of events are not supported directly by C++ syntax or execution semantics (or supported as "exceptions" -- pun intended). Therefore these features have to be emulated in C++ GUI code. This leads to duplication of a graphical toolkit or a window manager functionality, code bloat, engaging in unsafe practices and forgoing of many strong C++ features (like scoping rules and compile-time type checking). This paper enumerates a few major C++/GUI sores and illustrates them on simple examples.

Multiplicative Algorithm for Orthgonal Groups and Independent Component Analysis

The multiplicative Newton-like method developed by the author et al. is extended to the situation where the dynamics is restricted to the orthogonal group. A general framework is constructed without specifying the cost function. Though the restriction to the orthogonal groups makes the problem somewhat complicated, an explicit expression for the amount of individual jumps is obtained. This algorithm is exactly second-order-convergent. The global instability inherent in the Newton method is remedied by a Levenberg-Marquardt-type variation. The method thus constructed can readily be applied to the independent component analysis. Its remarkable performance is illustrated by a numerical simulation.

Predicting the expected behavior of agents that learn about agents: the CLRI framework

We describe a framework and equations used to model and predict the behavior of multi-agent systems (MASs) with learning agents. A difference equation is used for calculating the progression of an agent's error in its decision function, thereby telling us how the agent is expected to fare in the MAS. The equation relies on parameters which capture the agent's learning abilities, such as its change rate, learning rate and retention rate, as well as relevant aspects of the MAS such as the impact that agents have on each other. We validate the framework with experimental results using reinforcement learning agents in a market system, as well as with other experimental results gathered from the AI literature. Finally, we use PAC-theory to show how to calculate bounds on the values of the learning parameters.

Fractal Symbolic Analysis

Restructuring compilers use dependence analysis to prove that the meaning of a program is not changed by a transformation. A well-known limitation of dependence analysis is that it examines only the memory locations read and written by a statement, and does not assume any particular interpretation for the operations in that statement. Exploiting the semantics of these operations enables a wider set of transformations to be used, and is critical for optimizing important codes such as LU factorization with pivoting.
Symbolic execution of programs enables the exploitation of such semantic properties, but it is intractable for all but the simplest programs. In this paper, we propose a new form of symbolic analysis for use in restructuring compilers. Fractal symbolic analysis compares a program and its transformed version by repeatedly simplifying these programs until symbolic analysis becomes tractable, ensuring that equality of simplified programs is sufficient to guarantee equality of the original programs. We present a prototype implementation of fractal symbolic analysis, and show how it can be used to optimize the cache performance of LU factorization with pivoting.

A Real World Implementation of Answer Extraction

In this paper we describe ExtrAns, an answer extraction system. Answer extraction (AE) aims at retrieving those exact passages of a document that directly answer a given user question. AE is more ambitious than information retrieval and information extraction in that the retrieval results are phrases, not entire documents, and in that the queries may be arbitrarily specific. It is less ambitious than full-fledged question answering in that the answers are not generated from a knowledge base but looked up in the text of documents. The current version of ExtrAns is able to parse unedited Unix "man pages", and derive the logical form of their sentences. User queries are also translated into logical forms. A theorem prover then retrieves the relevant phrases, which are presented through selective highlighting in their context.

Agents of Choice: Tools that Facilitate Notice and Choice about Web Site Data Practices

A variety of tools have been introduced recently that are designed to help people protect their privacy on the Internet. These tools perform many different functions in-cluding encrypting and/or anonymizing communications, preventing the use of persistent identifiers such as cookies, automatically fetching and analyzing web site privacy policies, and displaying privacy-related information to users. This paper discusses the set of privacy tools that aim specifically at facilitating notice and choice about Web site data practices. While these tools may also have components that perform other functions such as encryption, or they may be able to work in conjunction with other privacy tools, the primary pur-pose of these tools is to help make users aware of web site privacy practices and to make it easier for users to make informed choices about when to provide data to web sites. Examples of such tools include the Platform for Privacy Preferences (P3P) and various infomediary services.

Measures of Distributional Similarity

We study distributional similarity measures for the purpose of improving probability estimation for unseen cooccurrences. Our contributions are three-fold: an empirical comparison of a broad range of measures; a classification of similarity functions based on the information that they incorporate; and the introduction of a novel function that is superior at evaluating potential proxy distributions.

Nondeterministic Quantum Query and Quantum Communication Complexities

We study nondeterministic quantum algorithms for Boolean functions f. Such algorithms have positive acceptance probability on input x iff f(x)=1. In the setting of query complexity, we show that the nondeterministic quantum complexity of a Boolean function is equal to its ``nondeterministic polynomial'' degree. We also prove a quantum-vs-classical gap of 1 vs n for nondeterministic query complexity for a total function. In the setting of communication complexity, we show that the nondeterministic quantum complexity of a two-party function is equal to the logarithm of the rank of a nondeterministic version of the communication matrix. This implies that the quantum communication complexities of the equality and disjointness functions are n+1 if we do not allow any error probability. We also exhibit a total function in which the nondeterministic quantum communication complexity is exponentially smaller than its classical counterpart.

Multi-Agent Only Knowing

Levesque introduced a notion of ``only knowing'', with the goal of capturing certain types of nonmonotonic reasoning. Levesque's logic dealt with only the case of a single agent. Recently, both Halpern and Lakemeyer independently attempted to extend Levesque's logic to the multi-agent case. Although there are a number of similarities in their approaches, there are some significant differences. In this paper, we reexamine the notion of only knowing, going back to first principles. In the process, we simplify Levesque's completeness proof, and point out some problems with the earlier definitions. This leads us to reconsider what the properties of only knowing ought to be. We provide an axiom system that captures our desiderata, and show that it has a semantics that corresponds to it. The axiom system has an added feature of interest: it includes a modal operator for satisfiability, and thus provides a complete axiomatization for satisfiability in the logic K45.

Take-home Complexity

We discuss the use of projects in first-year graduate complexity theory courses.

Bezier Curves Intersection Using Relief Perspective

Presented paper describes the method for finding the intersection of class space rational Bezier curves. The problem curve/curve intersection belongs among basic geometric problems and the aim of this article is to describe the new technique to solve the problem using relief perspective and Bezier clipping.

Adaptive simulated annealing (ASA): Lessons learned

Adaptive simulated annealing (ASA) is a global optimization algorithm based on an associated proof that the parameter space can be sampled much more efficiently than by using other previous simulated annealing algorithms. The author's ASA code has been publicly available for over two years. During this time the author has volunteered to help people via e-mail, and the feedback obtained has been used to further develop the code. Some lessons learned, in particular some which are relevant to other simulated annealing algorithms, are described.

PushPush is NP-hard in 2D

We prove that a particular pushing-blocks puzzle is intractable in 2D, improving an earlier result that established intractability in 3D [OS99]. The puzzle, inspired by the game *PushPush*, consists of unit square blocks on an integer lattice. An agent may push blocks (but never pull them) in attempting to move between given start and goal positions. In the PushPush version, the agent can only push one block at a time, and moreover, each block, when pushed, slides the maximal extent of its free range. We prove this version is NP-hard in 2D by reduction from SAT.

Exploiting Syntactic Structure for Natural Language Modeling

The thesis presents an attempt at using the syntactic structure in natural language for improved language models for speech recognition. The structured language model merges techniques in automatic parsing and language modeling using an original probabilistic parameterization of a shift-reduce parser. A maximum likelihood reestimation procedure belonging to the class of expectation-maximization algorithms is employed for training the model. Experiments on the Wall Street Journal, Switchboard and Broadcast News corpora show improvement in both perplexity and word error rate - word lattice rescoring - over the standard 3-gram language model. The significance of the thesis lies in presenting an original approach to language modeling that uses the hierarchical - syntactic - structure in natural language to improve on current 3-gram modeling techniques for large vocabulary speech recognition.

Refinement of a Structured Language Model

A new language model for speech recognition inspired by linguistic analysis is presented. The model develops hidden hierarchical structure incrementally and uses it to extract meaningful information from the word history - thus enabling the use of extended distance dependencies - in an attempt to complement the locality of currently used n-gram Markov models. The model, its probabilistic parametrization, a reestimation algorithm for the model parameters and a set of experiments meant to evaluate its potential for speech recognition are presented.

Recognition Performance of a Structured Language Model

A new language model for speech recognition inspired by linguistic analysis is presented. The model develops hidden hierarchical structure incrementally and uses it to extract meaningful information from the word history - thus enabling the use of extended distance dependencies - in an attempt to complement the locality of currently used trigram models. The structured language model, its probabilistic parameterization and performance in a two-pass speech recognizer are presented. Experiments on the SWITCHBOARD corpus show an improvement in both perplexity and word error rate over conventional trigram models.

Structured Language Modeling for Speech Recognition

A new language model for speech recognition is presented. The model develops hidden hierarchical syntactic-like structure incrementally and uses it to extract meaningful information from the word history, thus complementing the locality of currently used trigram models. The structured language model (SLM) and its performance in a two-pass speech recognizer --- lattice decoding --- are presented. Experiments on the WSJ corpus show an improvement in both perplexity (PPL) and word error rate (WER) over conventional trigram models.

A Parallel Algorithm for Dilated Contour Extraction from Bilevel Images

We describe a simple, but efficient algorithm for the generation of dilated contours from bilevel images. The initial part of the contour extraction is explained to be a good candidate for parallel computer code generation. The remainder of the algorithm is of linear nature.

Computational Geometry Column 38

Recent results on curve reconstruction are described.

A Logic for SDSI's Linked Local Name Spaces

Abadi has introduced a logic to explicate the meaning of local names in SDSI, the Simple Distributed Security Infrastructure proposed by Rivest and Lampson. Abadi's logic does not correspond precisely to SDSI, however; it draws conclusions about local names that do not follow from SDSI's name resolution algorithm. Moreover, its semantics is somewhat unintuitive. This paper presents the Logic of Local Name Containment, which does not suffer from these deficiencies. It has a clear semantics and provides a tight characterization of SDSI name resolution. The semantics is shown to be closely related to that of logic programs, leading to an approach to the efficient implementation of queries concerning local names. A complete axiomatization of the logic is also provided.

Pattern Discovery and Computational Mechanics

Computational mechanics is a method for discovering, describing and quantifying patterns, using tools from statistical physics. It constructs optimal, minimal models of stochastic processes and their underlying causal structures. These models tell us about the intrinsic computation embedded within a process---how it stores and transforms information. Here we summarize the mathematics of computational mechanics, especially recent optimality and uniqueness results. We also expound the principles and motivations underlying computational mechanics, emphasizing its connections to the minimum description length principle, PAC theory, and other aspects of machine learning.

Computing large and small stable models

In this paper, we focus on the problem of existence and computing of small and large stable models. We show that for every fixed integer k, there is a linear-time algorithm to decide the problem LSM (large stable models problem): does a logic program P have a stable model of size at least |P|-k. In contrast, we show that the problem SSM (small stable models problem) to decide whether a logic program P has a stable model of size at most k is much harder. We present two algorithms for this problem but their running time is given by polynomials of order depending on k. We show that the problem SSM is fixed-parameter intractable by demonstrating that it is W[2]-hard. This result implies that it is unlikely, an algorithm exists to compute stable models of size at most k that would run in time O(n^c), where c is a constant independent of k. We also provide an upper bound on the fixed-parameter complexity of the problem SSM by showing that it belongs to the class W[3].

Uniform semantic treatment of default and autoepistemic logics

We revisit the issue of connections between two leading formalisms in nonmonotonic reasoning: autoepistemic logic and default logic. For each logic we develop a comprehensive semantic framework based on the notion of a belief pair. The set of all belief pairs together with the so called knowledge ordering forms a complete lattice. For each logic, we introduce several semantics by means of fixpoints of operators on the lattice of belief pairs. Our results elucidate an underlying isomorphism of the respective semantic constructions. In particular, we show that the interpretation of defaults as modal formulas proposed by Konolige allows us to represent all semantics for default logic in terms of the corresponding semantics for autoepistemic logic. Thus, our results conclusively establish that default logic can indeed be viewed as a fragment of autoepistemic logic. However, as we also demonstrate, the semantics of Moore and Reiter are given by different operators and occupy different locations in their corresponding families of semantics. This result explains the source of the longstanding difficulty to formally relate these two semantics. In the paper, we also discuss approximating skeptical reasoning with autoepistemic and default logics and establish constructive principles behind such approximations.

On the accuracy and running time of GSAT

Randomized algorithms for deciding satisfiability were shown to be effective in solving problems with thousands of variables. However, these algorithms are not complete. That is, they provide no guarantee that a satisfying assignment, if one exists, will be found. Thus, when studying randomized algorithms, there are two important characteristics that need to be considered: the running time and, even more importantly, the accuracy --- a measure of likelihood that a satisfying assignment will be found, provided one exists. In fact, we argue that without a reference to the accuracy, the notion of the running time for randomized algorithms is not well-defined. In this paper, we introduce a formal notion of accuracy. We use it to define a concept of the running time. We use both notions to study the random walk strategy GSAT algorithm. We investigate the dependence of accuracy on properties of input formulas such as clause-to-variable ratio and the number of satisfying assignments. We demonstrate that the running time of GSAT grows exponentially in the number of variables of the input formula for randomly generated 3-CNF formulas and for the formulas encoding 3- and 4-colorability of graphs.

Stochastic Model Checking for Multimedia

Modern distributed systems include a class of applications in which non-functional requirements are important. In particular, these applications include multimedia facilities where real time constraints are crucial to their correct functioning. In order to specify such systems it is necessary to describe that events occur at times given by probability distributions and stochastic automata have emerged as a useful technique by which such systems can be specified and verified.
However, stochastic descriptions are very general, in particular they allow the use of general probability distribution functions, and therefore their verification can be complex. In the last few years, model checking has emerged as a useful verification tool for large systems.
In this paper we describe two model checking algorithms for stochastic automata. These algorithms consider how properties written in a simple probabilistic real-time logic can be checked against a given stochastic automaton.

Fully Sequential and Distributed Dynamic Algorithms for Minimum Spanning Trees

In this paper, we present a fully-dynamic distributed algorithm for maintaining a minimum spanning tree on general graphs with positive real edge weights. The goal of a dynamic MST algorithm is to update efficiently the minimum spanning tree after dynamic changes like edge weight changes, rather than having to recompute it from scatch each time. The first part of the paper surveys various algorithms available today both in sequential and distributed environments to solve static MST problem. We also present some of the efficient sequential algorithms for computing dynamic MST like the Frederickson's algorithm and Eppstein's sparsification technique. Lastly we present our new sequential and distributed algorithms for dynamic MST problem. To our knowledge, this is the first of the distributed algorithms for computing dynamic MSTs.

Requirements of Text Processing Lexicons

As text processing systems expand in scope, they will require ever larger lexicons along with a parsing capability for discriminating among many senses of a word. Existing systems do not incorporate such subtleties in meaning for their lexicons. Ordinary dictionaries contain such information, but are largely untapped. When the contents of dictionaries are scrutinized, they reveal many requirements that must be satisfied in representing meaning and in developing semantic parsers. These requirements were identified in research designed to find primitive verb concepts. The requirements are outlined and general procedures for satisfying them through the use of ordinary dictionaries are described, illustrated by building frames for and examining the definitions of "change" and its uses as a hypernym in other definitions.

On Automata with Boundary

We present a theory of automata with boundary for designing, modelling and analysing distributed systems. Notions of behaviour, design and simulation appropriate to the theory are defined. The problem of model checking for deadlock detection is discussed, and an algorithm for state space reduction in exhaustive search, based on the theory presented here, is described. Three examples of the application of the theory are given, one in the course of the development of the ideas and two as illustrative examples of the use of the theory.

Syntactic Autonomy: Why There is no Autonomy without Symbols and How Self-Organization Might Evolve Them

Two different types of agency are discussed based on dynamically coherent and incoherent couplings with an environment respectively. I propose that until a private syntax (syntactic autonomy) is discovered by dynamically coherent agents, there are no significant or interesting types of closure or autonomy. When syntactic autonomy is established, then, because of a process of description-based selected self-organization, open-ended evolution is enabled. At this stage, agents depend, in addition to dynamics, on localized, symbolic memory, thus adding a level of dynamical incoherence to their interaction with the environment. Furthermore, it is the appearance of syntactic autonomy which enables much more interesting types of closures amongst agents which share the same syntax. To investigate how we can study the emergence of syntax from dynamical systems, experiments with cellular automata leading to emergent computation to solve non-trivial tasks are discussed. RNA editing is also mentioned as a process that may have been used to obtain a primordial biological code necessary open-ended evolution.

Biologically Motivated Distributed Designs for Adaptive Knowledge Management

We discuss how distributed designs that draw from biological network metaphors can largely improve the current state of information retrieval and knowledge management of distributed information systems. In particular, two adaptive recommendation systems named TalkMine and @ApWeb are discussed in more detail. TalkMine operates at the semantic level of keywords. It leads different databases to learn new and adapt existing keywords to the categories recognized by its communities of users using distributed algorithms. @ApWeb operates at the structural level of information resources, namely citation or hyperlink structure. It relies on collective behavior to adapt such structure to the expectations of users. TalkMine and @ApWeb are currently being implemented for the research library of the Los Alamos National Laboratory under the Active Recommendation Project. Together they define a biologically motivated information retrieval system, recommending simultaneously at the level of user knowledge categories expressed in keywords, and at the level of individual documents and their associations to other documents. Rather than passive information retrieval, with this system, users obtain an active, evolving interaction with information resources.

An Internet Multicast System for the Stock Market

We are moving toward a distributed, international, twenty-four hour, electronic stock exchange. The exchange will use the global Internet, or internet technology. This system is a natural application of multicast because there are a large number of receivers that should receive the same information simultaneously.
The data requirements for the stock exchange are discussed. The current multicast protocols lack the reliability, fairness, and scalability needed in this application. We describe a distributed architecture together with a reliable multicast protocol, a modification of the RMP protocol, that has characteristics appropriate for this application.
The architecture is used in three applications: In the first, we construct a unified stock ticker of the transactions that are being conducted on the various physical and electronic exchanges. Our objective is to deliver the the same combined ticker reliably and simultaneously to all receivers, anywhere in the world. In the second, we construct a unified sequence of buy and sell offers that are delivered to a single exchange or a collection of exchanges. Our objective is to give all traders the same fair access to an exchange independent of their relative distances to the exchange or the loss characteristics of the international network. In the third, we construct a distributed, electronic trading floor that can replace the current exchanges. This application uses the innovations from the first two applications to combine their fairness attributes.

On The Closest String and Substring Problems

The problem of finding a center string that is `close' to every given string arises and has many applications in computational biology and coding theory. This problem has two versions: the Closest String problem and the Closest Substring problem. Assume that we are given a set of strings ${\cal S}=\{s_1, s_2, ..., s_n\}$ of strings, say, each of length $m$. The Closest String problem asks for the smallest $d$ and a string $s$ of length $m$ which is within Hamming distance $d$ to each $s_i\in {\cal S}$. This problem comes from coding theory when we are looking for a code not too far away from a given set of codes. The problem is NP-hard. Berman et al give a polynomial time algorithm for constant $d$. For super-logarithmic $d$, Ben-Dor et al give an efficient approximation algorithm using linear program relaxation technique. The best polynomial time approximation has ratio 4/3 for all $d$ given by Lanctot et al and Gasieniec et al. The Closest Substring problem looks for a string $t$ which is within Hamming distance $d$ away from a substring of each $s_i$. This problem only has a $2- \frac{2}{2|Σ|+1}$ approximation algorithm previously Lanctot et al and is much more elusive than the Closest String problem, but it has many applications in finding conserved regions, genetic drug target identification, and genetic probes in molecular biology. Whether there are efficient approximation algorithms for both problems are major open questions in this area. We present two polynomial time approxmation algorithms with approximation ratio $1+ ε$ for any small $ε$ to settle both questions.

Computing and Comparing Semantics of Programs in Multi-valued Logics

The different semantics that can be assigned to a logic program correspond to different assumptions made concerning the atoms whose logical values cannot be inferred from the rules. Thus, the well founded semantics corresponds to the assumption that every such atom is false, while the Kripke-Kleene semantics corresponds to the assumption that every such atom is unknown. In this paper, we propose to unify and extend this assumption-based approach by introducing parameterized semantics for logic programs. The parameter holds the value that one assumes for all atoms whose logical values cannot be inferred from the rules. We work within multi-valued logic with bilattice structure, and we consider the class of logic programs defined by Fitting.
Following Fitting's approach, we define a simple operator that allows us to compute the parameterized semantics, and to compare and combine semantics obtained for different values of the parameter. The semantics proposed by Fitting corresponds to the value false. We also show that our approach captures and extends the usual semantics of conventional logic programs thereby unifying their computation.

Safe cooperative robot dynamics on graphs

This paper initiates the use of vector fields to design, optimize, and implement reactive schedules for safe cooperative robot patterns on planar graphs. We consider Automated Guided Vehicles (AGV's) operating upon a predefined network of pathways. In contrast to the case of locally Euclidean configuration spaces, regularization of collisions is no longer a local procedure, and issues concerning the global topology of configuration spaces must be addressed. The focus of the present inquiry is the achievement of safe, efficient, cooperative patterns in the simplest nontrivial example (a pair of robots on a Y-network) by means of a state-event heirarchical controller.

Genetic Algorithms for Extension Search in Default Logic

A default theory can be characterized by its sets of plausible conclusions, called its extensions. But, due to the theoretical complexity of Default Logic (Sigma_2p-complete), the problem of finding such an extension is very difficult if one wants to deal with non trivial knowledge bases. Based on the principle of natural selection, Genetic Algorithms have been quite successfully applied to combinatorial problems and seem useful for problems with huge search spaces and when no tractable algorithm is available. The purpose of this paper is to show that techniques issued from Genetic Algorithms can be used in order to build an efficient default reasoning system. After providing a formal description of the components required for an extension search based on Genetic Algorithms principles, we exhibit some experimental results.

SLT-Resolution for the Well-Founded Semantics

Global SLS-resolution and SLG-resolution are two representative mechanisms for top-down evaluation of the well-founded semantics of general logic programs. Global SLS-resolution is linear for query evaluation but suffers from infinite loops and redundant computations. In contrast, SLG-resolution resolves infinite loops and redundant computations by means of tabling, but it is not linear. The principal disadvantage of a non-linear approach is that it cannot be implemented using a simple, efficient stack-based memory structure nor can it be easily extended to handle some strictly sequential operators such as cuts in Prolog.
In this paper, we present a linear tabling method, called SLT-resolution, for top-down evaluation of the well-founded semantics. SLT-resolution is a substantial extension of SLDNF-resolution with tabling. Its main features include: (1) It resolves infinite loops and redundant computations while preserving the linearity. (2) It is terminating, and sound and complete w.r.t. the well-founded semantics for programs with the bounded-term-size property with non-floundering queries. Its time complexity is comparable with SLG-resolution and polynomial for function-free logic programs. (3) Because of its linearity for query evaluation, SLT-resolution bridges the gap between the well-founded semantics and standard Prolog implementation techniques. It can be implemented by an extension to any existing Prolog abstract machines such as WAM or ATOAM.

An Usage Measure Based on Psychophysical Relations

A new word usage measure is proposed. It is based on psychophysical relations and allows to reveal words by its degree of "importance" for making basic dictionaries of sublanguages.

Making news understandable to computers

Computers and devices are largely unaware of events taking place in the world. This could be changed if news were made available in a computer-understandable form. In this paper we present XML documents called NewsForms that represent the key points of 17 types of news events. We discuss the benefits of computer-understandable news and present the NewsExtract program for converting text news stories into NewsForms.

Combining Random Number Generators using Quasicrystals

This paper has been withdrawn by the author(s),

Prospects for in-depth story understanding by computer

While much research on the hard problem of in-depth story understanding by computer was performed starting in the 1970s, interest shifted in the 1990s to information extraction and word sense disambiguation. Now that a degree of success has been achieved on these easier problems, I propose it is time to return to in-depth story understanding. In this paper I examine the shift away from story understanding, discuss some of the major problems in building a story understanding system, present some possible solutions involving a set of interacting understanding agents, and provide pointers to useful tools and resources for building story understanding systems.

A database and lexicon of scripts for ThoughtTreasure

Since scripts were proposed in the 1970's as an inferencing mechanism for AI and natural language processing programs, there have been few attempts to build a database of scripts. This paper describes a database and lexicon of scripts that has been added to the ThoughtTreasure commonsense platform. The database provides the following information about scripts: sequence of events, roles, props, entry conditions, results, goals, emotions, places, duration, frequency, and cost. English and French words and phrases are linked to script concepts.

Don't Trash your Intermediate Results, Cache 'em

In data warehouse and data mart systems, queries often take a long time to execute due to their complex nature. Query response times can be greatly improved by caching final/intermediate results of previous queries, and using them to answer later queries. In this paper we describe a caching system called Exchequer which incorporates several novel features including optimization aware cache maintenance and the use of a cache aware optimizer. In contrast, in existing work, the module that makes cost-benefit decisions is part of the cache manager and works independent of the optimizer which essentially reconsiders these decisions while finding the best plan for a query. In our work, the optimizer takes the decisions for the cache manager. Furthermore, existing approaches are either restricted to cube (slice/point) queries, or cache just the query results. On the other hand, our work is extens ible and in fact presents a data-model independent framework and algorithm. Our experimental results attest to the efficacy of our cache management techniques and show that over a wide range of parameters (a) Exchequer's query response times are lower by more than 30% compared to the best performing competitor, and (b) Exchequer can deliver the same response time as its competitor with just one tenth of the cache size.

Materialized View Selection and Maintenance Using Multi-Query Optimization

Because the presence of views enhances query performance, materialized views are increasingly being supported by commercial database/data warehouse systems. Whenever the data warehouse is updated, the materialized views must also be updated. However, whereas the amount of data entering a warehouse, the query loads, and the need to obtain up-to-date responses are all increasing, the time window available for making the warehouse up-to-date is shrinking. These trends necessitate efficient techniques for the maintenance of materialized views.
In this paper, we show how to find an efficient plan for maintenance of a {\em set} of views, by exploiting common subexpressions between different view maintenance expressions. These common subexpressions may be materialized temporarily during view maintenance. Our algorithms also choose subexpressions/indices to be materialized permanently (and maintained along with other materialized views), to speed up view maintenance. While there has been much work on view maintenance in the past, our novel contributions lie in exploiting a recently developed framework for multiquery optimization to efficiently find good view maintenance plans as above. In addition to faster view maintenance, our algorithms can also be used to efficiently select materialized views to speed up workloads containing queries.

Computing Circumscriptive Databases by Integer Programming: Revisited (Extended Abstract)

In this paper, we consider a method of computing minimal models in circumscription using integer programming in propositional logic and first-order logic with domain closure axioms and unique name axioms. This kind of treatment is very important since this enable to apply various technique developed in operations research to nonmonotonic reasoning.
Nerode et al. (1995) are the first to propose a method of computing circumscription using integer programming. They claimed their method was correct for circumscription with fixed predicate, but we show that their method does not correctly reflect their claim. We show a correct method of computing all the minimal models not only with fixed predicates but also with varied predicates and we extend our method to compute prioritized circumscription as well.

Consistency Management of Normal Logic Program by Top-down Abductive Proof Procedure

This paper presents a method of computing a revision of a function-free normal logic program. If an added rule is inconsistent with a program, that is, if it leads to a situation such that no stable model exists for a new program, then deletion and addition of rules are performed to avoid inconsistency. We specify a revision by translating a normal logic program into an abductive logic program with abducibles to represent deletion and addition of rules. To compute such deletion and addition, we propose an adaptation of our top-down abductive proof procedure to compute a relevant abducibles to an added rule. We compute a minimally revised program, by choosing a minimal set of abducibles among all the sets of abducibles computed by a top-down proof procedure.

Conditional indifference and conditional preservation

The idea of preserving conditional beliefs emerged recently as a new paradigm apt to guide the revision of epistemic states. Conditionals are substantially different from propositional beliefs and need specific treatment. In this paper, we present a new approach to conditionals, capturing particularly well their dynamic part as revision policies. We thoroughly axiomatize a principle of conditional preservation as an indifference property with respect to conditional structures of worlds. This principle is developed in a semi-quantitative setting, so as to reveal its fundamental meaning for belief revision in quantitative as well as in qualitative frameworks. In fact, it is shown to cover other proposed approaches to conditional preservation.

Automatic Belief Revision in SNePS

SNePS is a logic- and network- based knowledge representation, reasoning, and acting system, based on a monotonic, paraconsistent, first-order term logic, with compositional intensional semantics. It has an ATMS-style facility for belief contraction, and an acting component, including a well-defined syntax and semantics for primitive and composite acts, as well as for ``rules'' that allow for acting in support of reasoning and reasoning in support of acting. SNePS has been designed to support natural language competent cognitive agents.
When the current version of SNePS detects an explicit contradiction, it interacts with the user, providing information that helps the user decide what to remove from the knowledge base in order to remove the contradiction. The forthcoming SNePS 2.6 will also do automatic belief contraction if the information in the knowledge base warrents it.

Defeasible Reasoning in OSCAR

This is a system description for the OSCAR defeasible reasoner.

A flexible framework for defeasible logics

Logics for knowledge representation suffer from over-specialization: while each logic may provide an ideal representation formalism for some problems, it is less than optimal for others. A solution to this problem is to choose from several logics and, when necessary, combine the representations. In general, such an approach results in a very difficult problem of combination. However, if we can choose the logics from a uniform framework then the problem of combining them is greatly simplified. In this paper, we develop such a framework for defeasible logics. It supports all defeasible logics that satisfy a strong negation principle. We use logic meta-programs as the basis for the framework.

Applying Maxi-adjustment to Adaptive Information Filtering Agents

Learning and adaptation is a fundamental property of intelligent agents. In the context of adaptive information filtering, a filtering agent's beliefs about a user's information needs have to be revised regularly with reference to the user's most current information preferences. This learning and adaptation process is essential for maintaining the agent's filtering performance. The AGM belief revision paradigm provides a rigorous foundation for modelling rational and minimal changes to an agent's beliefs. In particular, the maxi-adjustment method, which follows the AGM rationale of belief change, offers a sound and robust computational mechanism to develop adaptive agents so that learning autonomy of these agents can be enhanced. This paper describes how the maxi-adjustment method is applied to develop the learning components of adaptive information filtering agents, and discusses possible difficulties of applying such a framework to these agents.

On the semantics of merging

Intelligent agents are often faced with the problem of trying to merge possibly conflicting pieces of information obtained from different sources into a consistent view of the world. We propose a framework for the modelling of such merging operations with roots in the work of Spohn (1988, 1991). Unlike most approaches we focus on the merging of epistemic states, not knowledge bases. We construct a number of plausible merging operations and measure them against various properties that merging operations ought to satisfy. Finally, we discuss the connection between merging and the use of infobases Meyer (1999) and Meyer et al. (2000).

Abductive and Consistency-Based Diagnosis Revisited: a Modeling Perspective

Diagnostic reasoning has been characterized logically as consistency-based reasoning or abductive reasoning. Previous analyses in the literature have shown, on the one hand, that choosing the (in general more restrictive) abductive definition may be appropriate or not, depending on the content of the knowledge base [Console&Torasso91], and, on the other hand, that, depending on the choice of the definition the same knowledge should be expressed in different form [Poole94].
Since in Model-Based Diagnosis a major problem is finding the right way of abstracting the behavior of the system to be modeled, this paper discusses the relation between modeling, and in particular abstraction in the model, and the notion of diagnosis.

The lexicographic closure as a revision process

The connections between nonmonotonic reasoning and belief revision are well-known. A central problem in the area of nonmonotonic reasoning is the problem of default entailment, i.e., when should an item of default information representing "if A is true then, normally, B is true" be said to follow from a given set of items of such information. Many answers to this question have been proposed but, surprisingly, virtually none have attempted any explicit connection to belief revision. The aim of this paper is to give an example of how such a connection can be made by showing how the lexicographic closure of a set of defaults may be conceptualised as a process of iterated revision by sets of sentences. Specifically we use the revision process of Nayak.

Description of GADEL

This article describes the first implementation of the GADEL system : a Genetic Algorithm for Default Logic. The goal of GADEL is to compute extensions in Reiter's default logic. It accepts every kind of finite propositional default theories and is based on evolutionary principles of Genetic Algorithms. Its first experimental results on certain instances of the problem show that this new approach of the problem can be successful.

ACLP: Integrating Abduction and Constraint Solving

ACLP is a system which combines abductive reasoning and constraint solving by integrating the frameworks of Abductive Logic Programming (ALP) and Constraint Logic Programming (CLP). It forms a general high-level knowledge representation environment for abductive problems in Artificial Intelligence and other areas. In ACLP, the task of abduction is supported and enhanced by its non-trivial integration with constraint solving facilitating its application to complex problems. The ACLP system is currently implemented on top of the CLP language of ECLiPSe as a meta-interpreter exploiting its underlying constraint solver for finite domains. It has been applied to the problems of planning and scheduling in order to test its computational effectiveness compared with the direct use of the (lower level) constraint solving framework of CLP on which it is built. These experiments provide evidence that the abductive framework of ACLP does not compromise significantly the computational efficiency of the solutions. Other experiments show the natural ability of ACLP to accommodate easily and in a robust way new or changing requirements of the original problem.

Hypothetical revision and matter-of-fact supposition

The paper studies the notion of supposition encoded in non-Archimedean conditional probability (and revealed in the acceptance of the so-called indicative conditionals). The notion of qualitative change of view that thus arises is axiomatized and compared with standard notions like AGM and UPDATE. Applications in the following fields are discussed: (1) theory of games and decisions, (2) causal models, (3) non-monotonic logic.

Probabilistic Default Reasoning with Conditional Constraints

We propose a combination of probabilistic reasoning from conditional constraints with approaches to default reasoning from conditional knowledge bases. In detail, we generalize the notions of Pearl's entailment in system Z, Lehmann's lexicographic entailment, and Geffner's conditional entailment to conditional constraints. We give some examples that show that the new notions of z-, lexicographic, and conditional entailment have similar properties like their classical counterparts. Moreover, we show that the new notions of z-, lexicographic, and conditional entailment are proper generalizations of both their classical counterparts and the classical notion of logical entailment for conditional constraints.

A Compiler for Ordered Logic Programs

This paper describes a system, called PLP, for compiling ordered logic programs into standard logic programs under the answer set semantics. In an ordered logic program, rules are named by unique terms, and preferences among rules are given by a set of dedicated atoms. An ordered logic program is transformed into a second, regular, extended logic program wherein the preferences are respected, in that the answer sets obtained in the transformed theory correspond with the preferred answer sets of the original theory. Since the result of the translation is an extended logic program, existing logic programming systems can be used as underlying reasoning engine. In particular, PLP is conceived as a front-end to the logic programming systems dlv and smodels.

Logic Programming for Describing and Solving Planning Problems

A logic programming paradigm which expresses solutions to problems as stable models has recently been promoted as a declarative approach to solving various combinatorial and search problems, including planning problems. In this paradigm, all program rules are considered as constraints and solutions are stable models of the rule set. This is a rather radical departure from the standard paradigm of logic programming. In this paper we revisit abductive logic programming and argue that it allows a programming style which is as declarative as programming based on stable models. However, within abductive logic programming, one has two kinds of rules. On the one hand predicate definitions (which may depend on the abducibles) which are nothing else than standard logic programs (with their non-monotonic semantics when containing with negation); on the other hand rules which constrain the models for the abducibles. In this sense abductive logic programming is a smooth extension of the standard paradigm of logic programming, not a radical departure.

A Comparison of Logic Programming Approaches for Representation and Solving of Constraint Satisfaction Problems

Many logic programming based approaches can be used to describe and solve combinatorial search problems. On the one hand there are definite programs and constraint logic programs that compute a solution as an answer substitution to a query containing the variables of the constraint satisfaction problem. On the other hand there are approaches based on stable model semantics, abduction, and first-order logic model generation that compute solutions as models of some theory. This paper compares these different approaches from point of view of knowledge representation (how declarative are the programs) and from point of view of performance (how good are they at solving typical problems).

SLDNFA-system

The SLDNFA-system results from the LP+ project at the K.U.Leuven, which investigates logics and proof procedures for these logics for declarative knowledge representation. Within this project inductive definition logic (ID-logic) is used as representation logic. Different solvers are being developed for this logic and one of these is SLDNFA. A prototype of the system is available and used for investigating how to solve efficiently problems represented in ID-logic.

Logic Programs with Compiled Preferences

We describe an approach for compiling preferences into logic programs under the answer set semantics. An ordered logic program is an extended logic program in which rules are named by unique terms, and in which preferences among rules are given by a set of dedicated atoms. An ordered logic program is transformed into a second, regular, extended logic program wherein the preferences are respected, in that the answer sets obtained in the transformed theory correspond with the preferred answer sets of the original theory. Our approach allows both the specification of static orderings (as found in most previous work), in which preferences are external to a logic program, as well as orderings on sets of rules. In large part then, we are interested in describing a general methodology for uniformly incorporating preference information in a logic program. Since the result of our translation is an extended logic program, we can make use of existing implementations, such as dlv and smodels. To this end, we have developed a compiler, available on the web, as a front-end for these programming systems.

Fuzzy Approaches to Abductive Inference

This paper proposes two kinds of fuzzy abductive inference in the framework of fuzzy rule base. The abductive inference processes described here depend on the semantic of the rule. We distinguish two classes of interpretation of a fuzzy rule, certainty generation rules and possible generation rules. In this paper we present the architecture of abductive inference in the first class of interpretation. We give two kinds of problem that we can resolve by using the proposed models of inference.

Problem solving in ID-logic with aggregates: some experiments

The goal of the LP+ project at the K.U.Leuven is to design an expressive logic, suitable for declarative knowledge representation, and to develop intelligent systems based on Logic Programming technology for solving computational problems using the declarative specifications. The ID-logic is an integration of typed classical logic and a definition logic. Different abductive solvers for this language are being developed. This paper is a report of the integration of high order aggregates into ID-logic and the consequences on the solver SLDNFA.

Optimal Belief Revision

We propose a new approach to belief revision that provides a way to change knowledge bases with a minimum of effort. We call this way of revising belief states optimal belief revision. Our revision method gives special attention to the fact that most belief revision processes are directed to a specific informational objective. This approach to belief change is founded on notions such as optimal context and accessibility. For the sentential model of belief states we provide both a formal description of contexts as sub-theories determined by three parameters and a method to construct contexts. Next, we introduce an accessibility ordering for belief sets, which we then use for selecting the best (optimal) contexts with respect to the processing effort involved in the revision. Then, for finitely axiomatizable knowledge bases, we characterize a finite accessibility ranking from which the accessibility ordering for the entire base is generated and show how to determine the ranking of an arbitrary sentence in the language. Finally, we define the adjustment of the accessibility ranking of a revised base of a belief set.

cc-Golog: Towards More Realistic Logic-Based Robot Controllers

High-level robot controllers in realistic domains typically deal with processes which operate concurrently, change the world continuously, and where the execution of actions is event-driven as in ``charge the batteries as soon as the voltage level is low''. While non-logic-based robot control languages are well suited to express such scenarios, they fare poorly when it comes to projecting, in a conspicuous way, how the world evolves when actions are executed. On the other hand, a logic-based control language like \congolog, based on the situation calculus, is well-suited for the latter. However, it has problems expressing event-driven behavior. In this paper, we show how these problems can be overcome by first extending the situation calculus to support continuous change and event-driven behavior and then presenting \ccgolog, a variant of \congolog which is based on the extended situation calculus. One benefit of \ccgolog is that it narrows the gap in expressiveness compared to non-logic-based control languages while preserving a semantically well-founded projection mechanism.

Smodels: A System for Answer Set Programming

The Smodels system implements the stable model semantics for normal logic programs. It handles a subclass of programs which contain no function symbols and are domain-restricted but supports extensions including built-in functions as well as cardinality and weight constraints. On top of this core engine more involved systems can be built. As an example, we have implemented total and partial stable model computation for disjunctive logic programs. An interesting application method is based on answer set programming, i.e., encoding an application problem as a set of rules so that its solutions are captured by the stable models of the rules. Smodels has been applied to a number of areas including planning, model checking, reachability analysis, product configuration, dynamic constraint satisfaction, and feature interaction.

E-RES: A System for Reasoning about Actions, Events and Observations

E-RES is a system that implements the Language E, a logic for reasoning about narratives of action occurrences and observations. E's semantics is model-theoretic, but this implementation is based on a sound and complete reformulation of E in terms of argumentation, and uses general computational techniques of argumentation frameworks. The system derives sceptical non-monotonic consequences of a given reformulated theory which exactly correspond to consequences entailed by E's model-theory. The computation relies on a complimentary ability of the system to derive credulous non-monotonic consequences together with a set of supporting assumptions which is sufficient for the (credulous) conclusion to hold. E-RES allows theories to contain general action laws, statements about action occurrences, observations and statements of ramifications (or universal laws). It is able to derive consequences both forward and backward in time. This paper gives a short overview of the theoretical basis of E-RES and illustrates its use on a variety of examples. Currently, E-RES is being extended so that the system can be used for planning.

Declarative Representation of Revision Strategies

In this paper we introduce a nonmonotonic framework for belief revision in which reasoning about the reliability of different pieces of information based on meta-knowledge about the information is possible, and where revision strategies can be described declaratively. The approach is based on a Poole-style system for default reasoning in which entrenchment information is represented in the logical language. A notion of inference based on the least fixed point of a monotone operator is used to make sure that all theories possess a consistent set of conclusions.

DLV - A System for Declarative Problem Solving

DLV is an efficient logic programming and non-monotonic reasoning (LPNMR) system with advanced knowledge representation mechanisms and interfaces to classic relational database systems.
Its core language is disjunctive datalog (function-free disjunctive logic programming) under the Answer Set Semantics with integrity constraints, both default and strong (or explicit) negation, and queries. Integer arithmetics and various built-in predicates are also supported.
In addition DLV has several frontends, namely brave and cautious reasoning, abductive diagnosis, consistency-based diagnosis, a subset of SQL3, planning with action languages, and logic programming with inheritance.

QUIP - A Tool for Computing Nonmonotonic Reasoning Tasks

In this paper, we outline the prototype of an automated inference tool, called QUIP, which provides a uniform implementation for several nonmonotonic reasoning formalisms. The theoretical basis of QUIP is derived from well-known results about the computational complexity of nonmonotonic logics and exploits a representation of the different reasoning tasks in terms of quantified boolean formulae.

A Splitting Set Theorem for Epistemic Specifications

Over the past decade a considerable amount of research has been done to expand logic programming languages to handle incomplete information. One such language is the language of epistemic specifications. As is usual with logic programming languages, the problem of answering queries is intractable in the general case. For extended disjunctive logic programs, an idea that has proven useful in simplifying the investigation of answer sets is the use of splitting sets. In this paper we will present an extended definition of splitting sets that will be applicable to epistemic specifications. Furthermore, an extension of the splitting set theorem will be presented. Also, a characterization of stratified epistemic specifications will be given in terms of splitting sets. This characterization leads us to an algorithmic method of computing world views of a subclass of epistemic logic programs.

DES: a Challenge Problem for Nonmonotonic Reasoning Systems

The US Data Encryption Standard, DES for short, is put forward as an interesting benchmark problem for nonmonotonic reasoning systems because (i) it provides a set of test cases of industrial relevance which shares features of randomly generated problems and real-world problems, (ii) the representation of DES using normal logic programs with the stable model semantics is simple and easy to understand, and (iii) this subclass of logic programs can be seen as an interesting special case for many other formalizations of nonmonotonic reasoning. In this paper we present two encodings of DES as logic programs: a direct one out of the standard specifications and an optimized one extending the work of Massacci and Marraro. The computational properties of the encodings are studied by using them for DES key search with the Smodels system as the implementation of the stable model semantics. Results indicate that the encodings and Smodels are quite competitive: they outperform state-of-the-art SAT-checkers working with an optimized encoding of DES into SAT and are comparable with a SAT-checker that is customized and tuned for the optimized SAT encoding.

Implementing Integrity Constraints in an Existing Belief Revision System

SNePS is a mature knowledge representation, reasoning, and acting system that has long contained a belief revision subsystem, called SNeBR. SNeBR is triggered when an explicit contradiction is introduced into the SNePS belief space, either because of a user's new assertion, or because of a user's query. SNeBR then makes the user decide what belief to remove from the belief space in order to restore consistency, although it provides information to help the user in making that decision. We have recently added automatic belief revision to SNeBR, by which, under certain circumstances, SNeBR decides by itself which belief to remove, and then informs the user of the decision and its consequences. We have used the well-known belief revision integrity constraints as a guide in designing automatic belief revision, taking into account, however, that SNePS's belief space is not deductively closed, and that it would be infeasible to form the deductive closure in order to decide what belief to remove. This paper briefly describes SNeBR both before and after this revision, discusses how we adapted the integrity constraints for this purpose, and gives an example of the new SNeBR in action.

Coherence, Belief Expansion and Bayesian Networks

We construct a probabilistic coherence measure for information sets which determines a partial coherence ordering. This measure is applied in constructing a criterion for expanding our beliefs in the face of new information. A number of idealizations are being made which can be relaxed by an appeal to Bayesian Networks.

Fages' Theorem and Answer Set Programming

We generalize a theorem by Francois Fages that describes the relationship between the completion semantics and the answer set semantics for logic programs with negation as failure. The study of this relationship is important in connection with the emergence of answer set programming. Whenever the two semantics are equivalent, answer sets can be computed by a satisfiability solver, and the use of answer set solvers such as smodels and dlv is unnecessary. A logic programming representation of the blocks world due to Ilkka Niemelae is discussed as an example.

Automatic Classification of Text Databases through Query Probing

Many text databases on the web are "hidden" behind search interfaces, and their documents are only accessible through querying. Search engines typically ignore the contents of such search-only databases. Recently, Yahoo-like directories have started to manually organize these databases into categories that users can browse to find these valuable resources. We propose a novel strategy to automate the classification of search-only text databases. Our technique starts by training a rule-based document classifier, and then uses the classifier's rules to generate probing queries. The queries are sent to the text databases, which are then classified based on the number of matches that they produce for each query. We report some initial exploratory experiments that show that our approach is promising to automatically characterize the contents of text databases accessible on the web.

On the tractable counting of theory models and its application to belief revision and truth maintenance

We introduced decomposable negation normal form (DNNF) recently as a tractable form of propositional theories, and provided a number of powerful logical operations that can be performed on it in polynomial time. We also presented an algorithm for compiling any conjunctive normal form (CNF) into DNNF and provided a structure-based guarantee on its space and time complexity. We present in this paper a linear-time algorithm for converting an ordered binary decision diagram (OBDD) representation of a propositional theory into an equivalent DNNF, showing that DNNFs scale as well as OBDDs. We also identify a subclass of DNNF which we call deterministic DNNF, d-DNNF, and show that the previous complexity guarantees on compiling DNNF continue to hold for this stricter subclass, which has stronger properties. In particular, we present a new operation on d-DNNF which allows us to count its models under the assertion, retraction and flipping of every literal by traversing the d-DNNF twice. That is, after such traversal, we can test in constant-time: the entailment of any literal by the d-DNNF, and the consistency of the d-DNNF under the retraction or flipping of any literal. We demonstrate the significance of these new operations by showing how they allow us to implement linear-time, complete truth maintenance systems and linear-time, complete belief revision systems for two important classes of propositional theories.

Termination Proofs for Logic Programs with Tabling

Tabled logic programming is receiving increasing attention in the Logic Programming community. It avoids many of the shortcomings of SLD execution and provides a more flexible and often extremely efficient execution mechanism for logic programs. In particular, tabled execution of logic programs terminates more often than execution based on SLD-resolution. In this article, we introduce two notions of universal termination of logic programming with Tabling: quasi-termination and (the stronger notion of) LG-termination. We present sufficient conditions for these two notions of termination, namely quasi-acceptability and LG-acceptability, and we show that these conditions are also necessary in case the tabling is well-chosen. Starting from these conditions, we give modular termination proofs, i.e., proofs capable of combining termination proofs of separate programs to obtain termination proofs of combined programs. Finally, in the presence of mode information, we state sufficient conditions which form the basis for automatically proving termination in a constraint-based way.

Linear Tabulated Resolution Based on Prolog Control Strategy

Infinite loops and redundant computations are long recognized open problems in Prolog. Two ways have been explored to resolve these problems: loop checking and tabling. Loop checking can cut infinite loops, but it cannot be both sound and complete even for function-free logic programs. Tabling seems to be an effective way to resolve infinite loops and redundant computations. However, existing tabulated resolutions, such as OLDT-resolution, SLG- resolution, and Tabulated SLS-resolution, are non-linear because they rely on the solution-lookup mode in formulating tabling. The principal disadvantage of non-linear resolutions is that they cannot be implemented using a simple stack-based memory structure like that in Prolog. Moreover, some strictly sequential operators such as cuts may not be handled as easily as in Prolog.
In this paper, we propose a hybrid method to resolve infinite loops and redundant computations. We combine the ideas of loop checking and tabling to establish a linear tabulated resolution called TP-resolution. TP-resolution has two distinctive features: (1) It makes linear tabulated derivations in the same way as Prolog except that infinite loops are broken and redundant computations are reduced. It handles cuts as effectively as Prolog. (2) It is sound and complete for positive logic programs with the bounded-term-size property. The underlying algorithm can be implemented by an extension to any existing Prolog abstract machines such as WAM or ATOAM.

BDD-based reasoning in the fluent calculus - first results

The paper reports on first preliminary results and insights gained in a project aiming at implementing the fluent calculus using methods and techniques based on binary decision diagrams. After reporting on an initial experiment showing promising results we discuss our findings concerning various techniques and heuristics used to speed up the reasoning process.

PAL: Pertinence Action Language

The current document contains a brief description of a system for Reasoning about Actions and Change called PAL (Pertinence Action Language) which makes use of several reasoning properties extracted from a Temporal Expert Systems tool called Medtool.

Planning with Incomplete Information

Planning is a natural domain of application for frameworks of reasoning about actions and change. In this paper we study how one such framework, the Language E, can form the basis for planning under (possibly) incomplete information. We define two types of plans: weak and safe plans, and propose a planner, called the E-Planner, which is often able to extend an initial weak plan into a safe plan even though the (explicit) information available is incomplete, e.g. for cases where the initial state is not completely known. The E-Planner is based upon a reformulation of the Language E in argumentation terms and a natural proof theory resulting from the reformulation. It uses an extension of this proof theory by means of abduction for the generation of plans and adopts argumentation-based techniques for extending weak plans into safe plans. We provide representative examples illustrating the behaviour of the E-Planner, in particular for cases where the status of fluents is incompletely known.

A tableau methodology for deontic conditional logics

In this paper we present a theorem proving methodology for a restricted but significant fragment of the conditional language made up of (boolean combinations of) conditional statements with unnested antecedents. The method is based on the possible world semantics for conditional logics. The KEM label formalism, designed to account for the semantics of normal modal logics, is easily adapted to the semantics of conditional logics by simply indexing labels with formulas. The inference rules are provided by the propositional system KE+ - a tableau-like analytic proof system devised to be used both as a refutation and a direct method of proof - enlarged with suitable elimination rules for the conditional connective. The theorem proving methodology we are going to present can be viewed as a first step towards developing an appropriate algorithmic framework for several conditional logics for (defeasible) conditional obligation.

Local Diagnosis

In an earlier work, we have presented operations of belief change which only affect the relevant part of a belief base. In this paper, we propose the application of the same strategy to the problem of model-based diangosis. We first isolate the subset of the system description which is relevant for a given observation and then solve the diagnosis problem for this subset.

A Consistency-Based Model for Belief Change: Preliminary Report

We present a general, consistency-based framework for belief change. Informally, in revising K by A, we begin with A and incorporate as much of K as consistently possible. Formally, a knowledge base K and sentence A are expressed, via renaming propositions in K, in separate languages. Using a maximization process, we assume the languages are the same insofar as consistently possible. Lastly, we express the resultant knowledge base in a single language. There may be more than one way in which A can be so extended by K: in choice revision, one such ``extension'' represents the revised state; alternately revision consists of the intersection of all such extensions.
The most general formulation of our approach is flexible enough to express other approaches to revision and update, the merging of knowledge bases, and the incorporation of static and dynamic integrity constraints. Our framework differs from work based on ordinal conditional functions, notably with respect to iterated revision. We argue that the approach is well-suited for implementation: the choice revision operator gives better complexity results than general revision; the approach can be expressed in terms of a finite knowledge base; and the scope of a revision can be restricted to just those propositions mentioned in the sentence for revision A.

Security of the Cao-Li Public Key Cryptosystem

We show that the Cao-Li cryptosystem proposed in \cite{CL1} is not secure. Its private key can be reconstructed from its public key using elementary means such as LU-decomposition and Euclidean algorithm.

A Problem-Specific Fault-Tolerance Mechanism for Asynchronous, Distributed Systems

The idle computers on a local area, campus area, or even wide area network represent a significant computational resource---one that is, however, also unreliable, heterogeneous, and opportunistic. This type of resource has been used effectively for embarrassingly parallel problems but not for more tightly coupled problems. We describe an algorithm that allows branch-and-bound problems to be solved in such environments. In designing this algorithm, we faced two challenges: (1) scalability, to effectively exploit the variably sized pools of resources available, and (2) fault tolerance, to ensure the reliability of services. We achieve scalability through a fully decentralized algorithm, by using a membership protocol for managing dynamically available resources. However, this fully decentralized design makes achieving reliability even more challenging. We guarantee fault tolerance in the sense that the loss of up to all but one resource will not affect the quality of the solution. For propagating information efficiently, we use epidemic communication for both the membership protocol and the fault-tolerance mechanism. We have developed a simulation framework that allows us to evaluate design alternatives. Results obtained in this framework suggest that our techniques can execute scalably and reliably.

TnT - A Statistical Part-of-Speech Tagger

Trigrams'n'Tags (TnT) is an efficient statistical part-of-speech tagger. Contrary to claims found elsewhere in the literature, we argue that a tagger based on Markov models performs at least as well as other current approaches, including the Maximum Entropy framework. A recent comparison has even shown that TnT performs significantly better for the tested corpora. We describe the basic model of TnT, the techniques used for smoothing and for handling unknown words. Furthermore, we present evaluations on two corpora.

A note on the Declarative reading(s) of Logic Programming

This paper analyses the declarative readings of logic programming. Logic programming - and negation as failure - has no unique declarative reading. One common view is that logic programming is a logic for default reasoning, a sub-formalism of default logic or autoepistemic logic. In this view, negation as failure is a modal operator. In an alternative view, a logic program is interpreted as a definition. In this view, negation as failure is classical objective negation. From a commonsense point of view, there is definitely a difference between these views. Surprisingly though, both types of declarative readings lead to grosso modo the same model semantics. This note investigates the causes for this.

XNMR: A tool for knowledge bases exploration

XNMR is a system designed to explore the results of combining the well-founded semantics system XSB with the stable-models evaluator SMODELS. Its main goal is to work as a tool for fast and interactive exploration of knowledge bases.

A note on knowledge-based programs and specifications

Knowledge-based program are programs with explicit tests for knowledge. They have been used successfully in a number of applications. Sanders has pointed out what seem to be a counterintuitive property of knowledge-based programs. Roughly speaking, they do not satisfy a certain monotonicity property, while standard programs (ones without tests for knowledge) do. It is shown that there are two ways of defining the monotonicity property, which agree for standard programs. Knowledge-based programs satisfy the first, but do not satisfy the second. It is further argued by example that the fact that they do not satisfy the second is actually a feature, not a problem. Moreover, once we allow the more general class of knowledge-based specifications, standard programs do not satisfy the monotonicity property either.

SATEN: An Object-Oriented Web-Based Revision and Extraction Engine

SATEN is an object-oriented web-based extraction and belief revision engine. It runs on any computer via a Java 1.1 enabled browser such as Netscape 4. SATEN performs belief revision based on the AGM approach. The extraction and belief revision reasoning engines operate on a user specified ranking of information. One of the features of SATEN is that it can be used to integrate mutually inconsistent commensuate rankings into a consistent ranking.

Message Classification in the Call Center

Customer care in technical domains is increasingly based on e-mail communication, allowing for the reproduction of approved solutions. Identifying the customer's problem is often time-consuming, as the problem space changes if new products are launched. This paper describes a new approach to the classification of e-mail requests based on shallow text processing and machine learning techniques. It is implemented within an assistance system for call center agents that is used in a commercial setting.

dcs: An Implementation of DATALOG with Constraints

Answer-set programming (ASP) has emerged recently as a viable programming paradigm. We describe here an ASP system, DATALOG with constraints or DC, based on non-monotonic logic. Informally, DC theories consist of propositional clauses (constraints) and of Horn rules. The semantics is a simple and natural extension of the semantics of the propositional logic. However, thanks to the presence of Horn rules in the system, modeling of transitive closure becomes straightforward. We describe the syntax, use and implementation of DC and provide experimental results.

Reasoning with Higher-Order Abstract Syntax in a Logical Framework

Logical frameworks based on intuitionistic or linear logics with higher-type quantification have been successfully used to give high-level, modular, and formal specifications of many important judgments in the area of programming languages and inference systems. Given such specifications, it is natural to consider proving properties about the specified systems in the framework: for example, given the specification of evaluation for a functional programming language, prove that the language is deterministic or that evaluation preserves types. One challenge in developing a framework for such reasoning is that higher-order abstract syntax (HOAS), an elegant and declarative treatment of object-level abstraction and substitution, is difficult to treat in proofs involving induction. In this paper, we present a meta-logic that can be used to reason about judgments coded using HOAS; this meta-logic is an extension of a simple intuitionistic logic that admits higher-order quantification over simply typed lambda-terms (key ingredients for HOAS) as well as induction and a notion of definition. We explore the difficulties of formal meta-theoretic analysis of HOAS encodings by considering encodings of intuitionistic and linear logics, and formally derive the admissibility of cut for important subsets of these logics. We then propose an approach to avoid the apparent tradeoff between the benefits of higher-order abstract syntax and the ability to analyze the resulting encodings. We illustrate this approach through examples involving the simple functional and imperative programming languages PCF and PCF:=. We formally derive such properties as unicity of typing, subject reduction, determinacy of evaluation, and the equivalence of transition semantics and natural semantics presentations of evaluation.

Statistics and implementation of APRNGs

This paper has been temporarily withdrawn by the author(s),

Specifying and Implementing Security Policies Using LaSCO, the Language for Security Constraints on Objects

In this dissertation, we present LaSCO, the Language for Security Constraints on Objects, a new approach to expressing security policies using policy graphs and present a method for enforcing policies so expressed. Other approaches for stating security policies fall short of what is desirable with respect to either policy clarity, executability, or the precision with which a policy may be expressed. However, LaSCO is designed to have those three desirable properties of a security policy language as well as: relevance for many different systems, statement of policies at an appropriate level of detail, user friendliness for both casual and expert users, and amenability to formal reasoning. In LaSCO, the constraints of a policy are stated as directed graphs annotated with expressions describing the situation under which the policy applies and what the requirement is. LaSCO may be used for such diverse applications as executing programs, file systems, operating systems, distributed systems, and networks.
Formal operational semantics have been defined for LaSCO. An architecture for implementing LaSCO on any system, is presented along with an implementation of the system-independent portion in Perl. Using this, we have implemented LaSCO for Java programs, preventing Java programs from violating policy. A GUI to facilitate writing policies is provided. We have studied applying LaSCO to a network as viewed by GrIDS, a distributed intrusion detection system for large networks, and propose a design. We conclude that LaSCO has characteristics that enable its use on different types of systems throughout the process of precisely expressing a policy, understanding the implications of a policy, and implementing it on a system.

Detecting Unsolvable Queries for Definite Logic Programs

In solving a query, the SLD proof procedure for definite programs sometimes searches an infinite space for a non existing solution. For example, querying a planner for an unreachable goal state. Such programs motivate the development of methods to prove the absence of a solution. Considering the definite program and the query ``<- Q'' as clauses of a first order theory, one can apply model generators which search for a finite interpretation in which the program clauses as well as the clause ``false <- Q'' are true. This paper develops a new approach which exploits the fact that all clauses are definite. It is based on a goal directed abductive search in the space of finite pre-interpretations for a pre-interpretation such that ``Q'' is false in the least model of the program based on it. Several methods for efficiently searching the space of pre-interpretations are presented. Experimental results confirm that our approach find solutions with less search than with the use of a first order model generator.

A Polyvariant Binding-Time Analysis for Off-line Partial Deduction

We study the notion of binding-time analysis for logic programs. We formalise the unfolding aspect of an on-line partial deduction system as a Prolog program. Using abstract interpretation, we collect information about the run-time behaviour of the program. We use this information to make the control decisions about the unfolding at analysis time and to turn the on-line system into an off-line system. We report on some initial experiments.

Proving Failure of Queries for Definite Logic Programs Using XSB-Prolog

Proving failure of queries for definite logic programs can be done by constructing a finite model of the program in which the query is false. A general purpose model generator for first order logic can be used for this. A recent paper presented at PLILP98 shows how the peculiarities of definite programs can be exploited to obtain a better solution. There a procedure is described which combines abduction with tabulation and uses a meta-interpreter for heuristic control of the search. The current paper shows how similar results can be obtained by direct execution under the standard tabulation of the XSB-Prolog system. The loss of control is compensated for by better intelligent backtracking and more accurate failure analysis.

The (Lazy) Functional Side of Logic Programming

The possibility of translating logic programs into functional ones has long been a subject of investigation. Common to the many approaches is that the original logic program, in order to be translated, needs to be well-moded and this has led to the common understanding that these programs can be considered to be the ``functional part'' of logic programs. As a consequence of this it has become widely accepted that ``complex'' logical variables, the possibility of a dynamic selection rule, and general properties of non-well-moded programs are exclusive features of logic programs. This is not quite true, as some of these features are naturally found in lazy functional languages. We readdress the old question of what features are exclusive to the logic programming paradigm by defining a simple translation applicable to a wider range of logic programs, and demonstrate that the current circumscription is unreasonably restrictive.

Axiomatic Synthesis of Computer Programs and Computability Theorems

We introduce a set of eight universal Rules of Inference by which computer programs with known properties (axioms) are transformed into new programs with known properties (theorems). Axioms are presented to formalize a segment of Number Theory, DataBase retrieval and Computability Theory. The resulting Program Calculus is used to generate programs to (1) Determine if one number is a factor of another. (2) List all employees who earn more than their manager. (3) List the set of programs that halt no on themselves, thus proving that it is recursively enumerable. The well-known fact that the set of programs that do not halt yes on themselves is not recursively enumerable is formalized as a program requirement that has no solution, an Incompleteness Axiom. Thus, any axioms (programs) which could be used to generate this program are themselves unattainable. Such proofs are presented to formally generate several additional theorems, including (4) The halting problem is unsolvable.
Open problems and future research is discussed, including the use of temporary sort files, programs that calculate statistics (such as counts and sums), the synthesis of programs to solve other well-known problems from Number Theory, Logic, DataBase retrieval and Computability Theory, application to Programming Language Semantics, and the formalization of incompleteness results from Logic and the semantic paradoxes.

MOO: A Methodology for Online Optimization through Mining the Offline Optimum

Ports, warehouses and courier services have to decide online how an arriving task is to be served in order that cost is minimized (or profit maximized). These operators have a wealth of historical data on task assignments; can these data be mined for knowledge or rules that can help the decision-making?
MOO is a novel application of data mining to online optimization. The idea is to mine (logged) expert decisions or the offline optimum for rules that can be used for online decisions. It requires little knowledge about the task distribution and cost structure, and is applicable to a wide range of problems.
This paper presents a feasibility study of the methodology for the well-known k-server problem. Experiments with synthetic data show that optimization can be recast as classification of the optimum decisions; the resulting heuristic can achieve the optimum for strong request patterns, consistently outperforms other heuristics for weak patterns, and is robust despite changes in cost model.

Proceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning, NMR'2000

The papers gathered in this collection were presented at the 8th International Workshop on Nonmonotonic Reasoning, NMR2000. The series was started by John McCarthy in 1978. The first international NMR workshop was held at Mohonk Mountain House, New Paltz, New York in June, 1984, and was organized by Ray Reiter and Bonnie Webber.
In the last 10 years the area of nonmonotonic reasoning has seen a number of important developments. Significant theoretical advances were made in the understanding of general abstract principles underlying nonmonotonicity. Key results on the expressibility and computational complexity of nonmonotonic logics were established. The role of nonmonotonic reasoning in belief revision, abduction, reasoning about action, planing and uncertainty was further clarified. Several successful NMR systems were built and used in applications such as planning, scheduling, logic programming and constraint satisfaction.
The papers in the proceedings reflect these recent advances in the field. They are grouped into sections corresponding to special sessions as they were held at the workshop:
1. General NMR track
2. Abductive reasonig
3. Belief revision: theory and practice
4. Representing action and planning
5. Systems descriptions and demonstrations
6. Uncertainty frameworks in NMR

A Finite State and Data-Oriented Method for Grapheme to Phoneme Conversion

A finite-state method, based on leftmost longest-match replacement, is presented for segmenting words into graphemes, and for converting graphemes into phonemes. A small set of hand-crafted conversion rules for Dutch achieves a phoneme accuracy of over 93%. The accuracy of the system is further improved by using transformation-based learning. The phoneme accuracy of the best system (using a large set of rule templates and a `lazy' variant of Brill's algoritm), trained on only 40K words, reaches 99% accuracy.

On the theory of system administration

This paper describes necessary elements for constructing theoretical models of network and system administration. Armed with a theoretical model it becomes possible to determine best practices and optimal strategies in a way which objectively relates policies and assumptions to results obtained. It is concluded that a mixture of automation and human, or other intelligent incursion is required to fully implement system policy with current technology. Some aspects of the author's immunity model for automated system administration are explained, as an example. A theoretical framework makes the prediction that the optimal balance between resource availability and garbage collection strategies is encompassed by the immunity model.

Constraint Programming viewed as Rule-based Programming

We study here a natural situation when constraint programming can be entirely reduced to rule-based programming. To this end we explain first how one can compute on constraint satisfaction problems using rules represented by simple first-order formulas. Then we consider constraint satisfaction problems that are based on predefined, explicitly given constraints. To solve them we first derive rules from these explicitly given constraints and limit the computation process to a repeated application of these rules, combined with labeling.We consider here two types of rules. The first type, that we call equality rules, leads to a new notion of local consistency, called {\em rule consistency} that turns out to be weaker than arc consistency for constraints of arbitrary arity (called hyper-arc consistency in \cite{MS98b}). For Boolean constraints rule consistency coincides with the closure under the well-known propagation rules for Boolean constraints. The second type of rules, that we call membership rules, yields a rule-based characterization of arc consistency. To show feasibility of this rule-based approach to constraint programming we show how both types of rules can be automatically generated, as {\tt CHR} rules of \cite{fruhwirth-constraint-95}. This yields an implementation of this approach to programming by means of constraint logic programming. We illustrate the usefulness of this approach to constraint programming by discussing various examples, including Boolean constraints, two typical examples of many valued logics, constraints dealing with Waltz's language for describing polyhedral scenes, and Allen's qualitative approach to temporal logic.

DATALOG with constraints - an answer-set programming system

Answer-set programming (ASP) has emerged recently as a viable programming paradigm well attuned to search problems in AI, constraint satisfaction and combinatorics. Propositional logic is, arguably, the simplest ASP system with an intuitive semantics supporting direct modeling of problem constraints. However, for some applications, especially those requiring that transitive closure be computed, it requires additional variables and results in large theories. Consequently, it may not be a practical computational tool for such problems. On the other hand, ASP systems based on nonmonotonic logics, such as stable logic programming, can handle transitive closure computation efficiently and, in general, yield very concise theories as problem representations. Their semantics is, however, more complex. Searching for the middle ground, in this paper we introduce a new nonmonotonic logic, DATALOG with constraints or DC. Informally, DC theories consist of propositional clauses (constraints) and of Horn rules. The semantics is a simple and natural extension of the semantics of the propositional logic. However, thanks to the presence of Horn rules in the system, modeling of transitive closure becomes straightforward. We describe the syntax and semantics of DC, and study its properties. We discuss an implementation of DC and present results of experimental study of the effectiveness of DC, comparing it with CSAT, a satisfiability checker and SMODELS implementation of stable logic programming. Our results show that DC is competitive with the other two approaches, in case of many search problems, often yielding much more efficient solutions.

Differential Invariants under Gamma Correction

This paper presents invariants under gamma correction and similarity transformations. The invariants are local features based on differentials which are implemented using derivatives of the Gaussian. The use of the proposed invariant representation is shown to yield improved correlation results in a template matching scenario.

Some Remarks on Boolean Constraint Propagation

We study here the well-known propagation rules for Boolean constraints. First we propose a simple notion of completeness for sets of such rules and establish a completeness result. Then we show an equivalence in an appropriate sense between Boolean constraint propagation and unit propagation, a form of resolution for propositional logic.
Subsequently we characterize one set of such rules by means of the notion of hyper-arc consistency introduced in (Mohr and Masini 1988). Also, we clarify the status of a similar, though different, set of rules introduced in (Simonis 1989a) and more fully in (Codognet and Diaz 1996).

Variable Word Rate N-grams

The rate of occurrence of words is not uniform but varies from document to document. Despite this observation, parameters for conventional n-gram language models are usually derived using the assumption of a constant word rate. In this paper we investigate the use of variable word rate assumption, modelled by a Poisson distribution or a continuous mixture of Poissons. We present an approach to estimating the relative frequencies of words or n-grams taking prior information of their occurrences into account. Discounting and smoothing schemes are also considered. Using the Broadcast News task, the approach demonstrates a reduction of perplexity up to 10%.

Advances in domain independent linear text segmentation

This paper describes a method for linear text segmentation which is twice as accurate and over seven times as fast as the state-of-the-art (Reynar, 1998). Inter-sentence similarity is replaced by rank in the local context. Boundary locations are discovered by divisive clustering.

Programming in Alma-0, or Imperative and Declarative Programming Reconciled

In (Apt et al, TOPLAS 1998) we introduced the imperative programming language Alma-0 that supports declarative programming. In this paper we illustrate the hybrid programming style of Alma-0 by means of various examples that complement those presented in (Apt et al, TOPLAS 1998). The presented Alma-0 programs illustrate the versatility of the language and show that ``don't know'' nondeterminism can be naturally combined with assignment.

Searching for Spaceships

We describe software that searches for spaceships in Conway's Game of Life and related two-dimensional cellular automata. Our program searches through a state space related to the de Bruijn graph of the automaton, using a method that combines features of breadth first and iterative deepening search, and includes fast bit-parallel graph reachability and path enumeration algorithms for finding the successors of each state. Successful results include a new 2c/7 spaceship in Life, found by searching a space with 2^126 states.

Mathematical Software: Past, Present, and Future

This paper provides some reflections on the field of mathematical software on the occasion of John Rice's 65th birthday. I describe some of the common themes of research in this field and recall some significant events in its evolution. Finally, I raise a number of issues that are of concern to future developments.

Exact Phase Transitions in Random Constraint Satisfaction Problems

In this paper we propose a new type of random CSP model, called Model RB, which is a revision to the standard Model B. It is proved that phase transitions from a region where almost all problems are satisfiable to a region where almost all problems are unsatisfiable do exist for Model RB as the number of variables approaches infinity. Moreover, the critical values at which the phase transitions occur are also known exactly. By relating the hardness of Model RB to Model B, it is shown that there exist a lot of hard instances in Model RB.

On Redundancy Elimination Tolerant Scheduling Rules

In (Ferrucci, Pacini and Sessa, 1995) an extended form of resolution, called Reduced SLD resolution (RSLD), is introduced. In essence, an RSLD derivation is an SLD derivation such that redundancy elimination from resolvents is performed after each rewriting step. It is intuitive that redundancy elimination may have positive effects on derivation process. However, undesiderable effects are also possible. In particular, as shown in this paper, program termination as well as completeness of loop checking mechanisms via a given selection rule may be lost. The study of such effects has led us to an analysis of selection rule basic concepts, so that we have found convenient to move the attention from rules of atom selection to rules of atom scheduling. A priority mechanism for atom scheduling is built, where a priority is assigned to each atom in a resolvent, and primary importance is given to the event of arrival of new atoms from the body of the applied clause at rewriting time. This new computational model proves able to address the study of redundancy elimination effects, giving at the same time interesting insights into general properties of selection rules. As a matter of fact, a class of scheduling rules, namely the specialisation independent ones, is defined in the paper by using not trivial semantic arguments. As a quite surprising result, specialisation independent scheduling rules turn out to coincide with a class of rules which have an immediate structural characterisation (named stack-queue rules). Then we prove that such scheduling rules are tolerant to redundancy elimination, in the sense that neither program termination nor completeness of equality loop check is lost passing from SLD to RSLD.

Deciding first-order properties of locally tree-decomposable structures

We introduce the concept of a class of graphs, or more generally, relational structures, being locally tree-decomposable. There are numerous examples of locally tree-decomposable classes, among them the class of planar graphs and all classes of bounded valence or of bounded tree-width. We also consider a slightly more general concept of a class of structures having bounded local tree-width.
We show that for each property P of structures that is definable in first-order logic and for each locally tree-decomposable class C of graphs, there is a linear time algorithm deciding whether a given structure A in C has property P. For classes C of bounded local tree-width, we show that for every k\ge 1 there is an algorithm that solves the same problem in time O(n^{1+(1/k)}) (where n is the cardinality of the input structure).

How to Evaluate your Question Answering System Every Day and Still Get Real Work Done

In this paper, we report on Qaviar, an experimental automated evaluation system for question answering applications. The goal of our research was to find an automatically calculated measure that correlates well with human judges' assessment of answer correctness in the context of question answering tasks. Qaviar judges the response by computing recall against the stemmed content words in the human-generated answer key. It counts the answer correct if it exceeds agiven recall threshold. We determined that the answer correctness predicted by Qaviar agreed with the human 93% to 95% of the time. 41 question-answering systems were ranked by both Qaviar and human assessors, and these rankings correlated with a Kendall's Tau measure of 0.920, compared to a correlation of 0.956 between human assessors on the same data.

Separating the complexity classes NL and NP

Withdrawn since -order- was overlooked. First order reductions without order are much too weak to separate.

Task Frames

Forty years ago Dijkstra introduced the current conventional execution of routines. It places activation frames onto a stack. Each frame is the internal state of an executing routine. The resulting application execution is not easily helped by an external system. This presentation proposes an alternative execution of routines. It places task frames onto the stack. A task frame is the call of a routine to be executed. The feasibility of the alternative execution is demonstrated by a crude implementation. As described elsewhere, an application which executes in terms of tasks can be provided by an external system with a transparent reliable, distributed, heterogeneous, adaptive, dynamic, real-time, parallel, secure or other execution. By extending the crude implementation, this presentation outlines a simple transparent parallel execution.

Assisted Video Sequences Indexing : Motion Analysis Based on Interest Points

This work deals with content-based video indexing. Our viewpoint is semi-automatic analysis of compressed video. We consider the possible applications of motion analysis and moving object detection : assisting moving object indexing, summarising videos, and allowing image and motion queries. We propose an approach based on interest points. As first results, we test and compare the stability of different types of interest point detectors in compressed sequences.

Sorting Integers on the AP1000

Sorting is one of the classic problems of computer science. Whilst well understood on sequential machines, the diversity of architectures amongst parallel systems means that algorithms do not perform uniformly on all platforms. This document describes the implementation of a radix based algorithm for sorting positive integers on a Fujitsu AP1000 Supercomputer, which was constructed as an entry in the Joint Symposium on Parallel Processing (JSPP) 1994 Parallel Software Contest (PSC94). Brief consideration is also given to a full radix sort conducted in parallel across the machine.

Introduction to the GiNaC Framework for Symbolic Computation within the C++ Programming Language

The traditional split-up into a low level language and a high level language in the design of computer algebra systems may become obsolete with the advent of more versatile computer languages. We describe GiNaC, a special-purpose system that deliberately denies the need for such a distinction. It is entirely written in C++ and the user can interact with it directly in that language. It was designed to provide efficient handling of multivariate polynomials, algebras and special functions that are needed for loop calculations in theoretical quantum field theory. It also bears some potential to become a more general purpose symbolic package.

Looking at discourse in a corpus: The role of lexical cohesion

This paper is aimed at reporting on the development and application of a computer model for discourse analysis through segmentation. Segmentation refers to the principled division of texts into contiguous constituents. Other studies have looked at the application of a number of models to the analysis of discourse by computer. The segmentation procedure developed for the present investigation is called LSM ('Link Set Median'). It was applied to three corpus of 300 texts from three different genres. The results obtained by application of the LSM procedure on the corpus were then compared to segmentation carried out at random. Statistical analyses suggested that LSM significantly outperformed random segmentation, thus indicating that the segmentation was meaningful.

Robustness of Regional Matching Scheme over Global Matching Scheme

The paper has established and verified the theory prevailing widely among image and pattern recognition specialists that the bottom-up indirect regional matching process is the more stable and the more robust than the global matching process against concentrated types of noise represented by clutter, outlier or occlusion in the imagery. We have demonstrated this by analyzing the effect of concentrated noise on a typical decision making process of a simplified two candidate voting model where our theorem establishes the lower bounds to a critical breakdown point of election (or decision) result by the bottom-up matching process are greater than the exact bound of the global matching process implying that the former regional process is capable of accommodating a higher level of noise than the latter global process before the result of decision overturns. We present a convincing experimental verification supporting not only the theory by a white-black flag recognition problem in the presence of localized noise but also the validity of the conjecture by a facial recognition problem that the theorem remains valid for other decision making processes involving an important dimension-reducing transform such as principal component analysis or a Gabor transform.

Application Software, Domain-Specific Languages, and Language Design Assistants

While application software does the real work, domain-specific languages (DSLs) are tools to help produce it efficiently, and language design assistants in turn are meta-tools to help produce DSLs quickly. DSLs are already in wide use (HTML for web pages, Excel macros for spreadsheet applications, VHDL for hardware design, ...), but many more will be needed for both new as well as existing application domains. Language design assistants to help develop them currently exist only in the basic form of language development systems. After a quick look at domain-specific languages, and especially their relationship to application libraries, we survey existing language development systems and give an outline of future language design assistants.

CoRR: A Computing Research Repository

Discusses how CoRR was set up and some policy issues involved with setting up such a repository.

A response to the commentaries on CoRR

This is a response to the commentaries on "CoRR: A Computing Research Repository".

Connectivity Compression for Irregular Quadrilateral Meshes

Applications that require Internet access to remote 3D datasets are often limited by the storage costs of 3D models. Several compression methods are available to address these limits for objects represented by triangle meshes. Many CAD and VRML models, however, are represented as quadrilateral meshes or mixed triangle/quadrilateral meshes, and these models may also require compression. We present an algorithm for encoding the connectivity of such quadrilateral meshes, and we demonstrate that by preserving and exploiting the original quad structure, our approach achieves encodings 30 - 80% smaller than an approach based on randomly splitting quads into triangles. We present both a code with a proven worst-case cost of 3 bits per vertex (or 2.75 bits per vertex for meshes without valence-two vertices) and entropy-coding results for typical meshes ranging from 0.3 to 0.9 bits per vertex, depending on the regularity of the mesh. Our method may be implemented by a rule for a particular splitting of quads into triangles and by using the compression and decompression algorithms introduced in [Rossignac99] and [Rossignac&Szymczak99]. We also present extensions to the algorithm to compress meshes with holes and handles and meshes containing triangles and other polygons as well as quads.

A Simple Approach to Building Ensembles of Naive Bayesian Classifiers for Word Sense Disambiguation

This paper presents a corpus-based approach to word sense disambiguation that builds an ensemble of Naive Bayesian classifiers, each of which is based on lexical features that represent co--occurring words in varying sized windows of context. Despite the simplicity of this approach, empirical results disambiguating the widely studied nouns line and interest show that such an ensemble achieves accuracy rivaling the best previously published results.

Scientific Collaboratories as Socio-Technical Interaction Networks: A Theoretical Approach

Collaboratories refer to laboratories where scientists can work together while they are in distant locations from each other and from key equipment. They have captured the interest both of CSCW researchers and of science funders who wish to optimize the use of rare scientific equipment and expertise. We examine the kind of CSCW conceptions that help us best understand the character of working relationships in these scientific collaboratories. Our model, inspired by actor-network theory, considers technologies as Socio-technical Interaction Networks (STINs). This model provides a rich understanding of the scientific collaboratories, and also a more complete understanding of the conditions and activities that support collaborative work in them. We illustrate the significance of STIN models with several cases drawn from the fields of high energy physics and materials science.

A Denotational Semantics for First-Order Logic

In Apt and Bezem [AB99] (see cs.LO/9811017) we provided a computational interpretation of first-order formulas over arbitrary interpretations. Here we complement this work by introducing a denotational semantics for first-order logic. Additionally, by allowing an assignment of a non-ground term to a variable we introduce in this framework logical variables.
The semantics combines a number of well-known ideas from the areas of semantics of imperative programming languages and logic programming. In the resulting computational view conjunction corresponds to sequential composition, disjunction to ``don't know'' nondeterminism, existential quantification to declaration of a local variable, and negation to the ``negation as finite failure'' rule. The soundness result shows correctness of the semantics with respect to the notion of truth. The proof resembles in some aspects the proof of the soundness of the SLDNF-resolution.

PSPACE Reasoning for Graded Modal Logics

We present a PSPACE algorithm that decides satisfiability of the graded modal logic Gr(K_R)---a natural extension of propositional modal logic K_R by counting expressions---which plays an important role in the area of knowledge representation. The algorithm employs a tableaux approach and is the first known algorithm which meets the lower bound for the complexity of the problem. Thus, we exactly fix the complexity of the problem and refute an ExpTime-hardness conjecture. We extend the results to the logic Gr(K_(R \cap I)), which augments Gr(K_R) with inverse relations and intersection of accessibility relations. This establishes a kind of ``theoretical benchmark'' that all algorithmic approaches can be measured against.

Extending and Implementing the Stable Model Semantics

An algorithm for computing the stable model semantics of logic programs is developed. It is shown that one can extend the semantics and the algorithm to handle new and more expressive types of rules. Emphasis is placed on the use of efficient implementation techniques. In particular, an implementation of lookahead that safely avoids testing every literal for failure and that makes the use of lookahead feasible is presented. In addition, a good heuristic is derived from the principle that the search space should be minimized.
Due to the lack of competitive algorithms and implementations for the computation of stable models, the system is compared with three satisfiability solvers. This shows that the heuristic can be improved by breaking ties, but leaves open the question of how to break them. It also demonstrates that the more expressive rules of the stable model semantics make the semantics clearly preferable over propositional logic when a problem has a more compact logic program representation. Conjunctive normal form representations are never more compact than logic program ones.

An Average Analysis of Backtracking on Random Constraint Satisfaction Problems

In this paper we propose a random CSP model, called Model GB, which is a natural generalization of standard Model B. It is proved that Model GB in which each constraint is easy to satisfy exhibits non-trivial behaviour (not trivially satisfiable or unsatisfiable) as the number of variables approaches infinity. A detailed analysis to obtain an asymptotic estimate (good to 1+o(1)) of the average number of nodes in a search tree used by the backtracking algorithm on Model GB is also presented. It is shown that the average number of nodes required for finding all solutions or proving that no solution exists grows exponentially with the number of variables. So this model might be an interesting distribution for studying the nature of hard instances and evaluating the performance of CSP algorithms. In addition, we further investigate the behaviour of the average number of nodes as r (the ratio of constraints to variables) varies. The results indicate that as r increases, random CSP instances get easier and easier to solve, and the base for the average number of nodes that is exponential in r tends to 1 as r approaches infinity. Therefore, although the average number of nodes used by the backtracking algorithm on random CSP is exponential, many CSP instances will be very easy to solve when r is sufficiently large.

Reasoning with Axioms: Theory and Pratice

When reasoning in description, modal or temporal logics it is often useful to consider axioms representing universal truths in the domain of discourse. Reasoning with respect to an arbitrary set of axioms is hard, even for relatively inexpressive logics, and it is essential to deal with such axioms in an efficient manner if implemented systems are to be effective in real applications. This is particularly relevant to Description Logics, where subsumption reasoning with respect to a terminology is a fundamental problem. Two optimisation techniques that have proved to be particularly effective in dealing with terminologies are lazy unfolding and absorption. In this paper we seek to improve our theoretical understanding of these important techniques. We define a formal framework that allows the techniques to be precisely described, establish conditions under which they can be safely applied, and prove that, provided these conditions are respected, subsumption testing algorithms will still function correctly. These results are used to show that the procedures used in the FaCT system are correct and, moreover, to show how efficiency can be significantly improved, while still retaining the guarantee of correctness, by relaxing the safety conditions for absorption.

Practical Reasoning for Very Expressive Description Logics

Description Logics (DLs) are a family of knowledge representation formalisms mainly characterised by constructors to build complex concepts and roles from atomic ones. Expressive role constructors are important in many applications, but can be computationally problematical. We present an algorithm that decides satisfiability of the DL ALC extended with transitive and inverse roles and functional restrictions with respect to general concept inclusion axioms and role hierarchies; early experiments indicate that this algorithm is well-suited for implementation. Additionally, we show that ALC extended with just transitive and inverse roles is still in PSPACE. We investigate the limits of decidability for this family of DLs, showing that relaxing the constraints placed on the kinds of roles used in number restrictions leads to the undecidability of all inference problems. Finally, we describe a number of optimisation techniques that are crucial in obtaining implementations of the decision procedures, which, despite the worst-case complexity of the problem, exhibit good performance with real-life problems.

Practical Reasoning for Expressive Description Logics

Description Logics (DLs) are a family of knowledge representation formalisms mainly characterised by constructors to build complex concepts and roles from atomic ones. Expressive role constructors are important in many applications, but can be computationally problematical. We present an algorithm that decides satisfiability of the DL ALC extended with transitive and inverse roles, role hierarchies, and qualifying number restrictions. Early experiments indicate that this algorithm is well-suited for implementation. Additionally, we show that ALC extended with just transitive and inverse roles is still in PSPACE. Finally, we investigate the limits of decidability for this family of DLs.

Improving Testsuites via Instrumentation

This paper explores the usefulness of a technique from software engineering, namely code instrumentation, for the development of large-scale natural language grammars. Information about the usage of grammar rules in test sentences is used to detect untested rules, redundant test sentences, and likely causes of overgeneration. Results show that less than half of a large-coverage grammar for German is actually tested by two large testsuites, and that 10-30% of testing time is redundant. The methodology applied can be seen as a re-use of grammar writing knowledge for testsuite compilation.

Reasoning with Individuals for the Description Logic SHIQ

While there has been a great deal of work on the development of reasoning algorithms for expressive description logics, in most cases only Tbox reasoning is considered. In this paper we present an algorithm for combined Tbox and Abox reasoning in the SHIQ description logic. This algorithm is of particular interest as it can be used to decide the problem of (database) conjunctive query containment w.r.t. a schema. Moreover, the realisation of an efficient implementation should be relatively straightforward as it can be based on an existing highly optimised implementation of the Tbox algorithm in the FaCT system.

On the Scalability of the Answer Extraction System "ExtrAns"

This paper reports on the scalability of the answer extraction system ExtrAns. An answer extraction system locates the exact phrases in the documents that contain the explicit answers to the user queries. Answer extraction systems are therefore more convenient than document retrieval systems in situations where the user wants to find specific information in limited time.
ExtrAns performs answer extraction over UNIX manpages. It has been constructed by combining available linguistic resources and implementing only a few modules from scratch. A resolution procedure between the minimal logical form of the user query and the minimal logical forms of the manpage sentences finds the answers to the queries. These answers are displayed to the user, together with pointers to the respective manpages, and the exact phrases that contribute to the answer are highlighted.
This paper shows that the increase in response times is not a big issue when scaling the system up from 30 to 500 documents, and that the response times for 500 documents are still acceptable for a real-time answer extraction system.

Centroid-based summarization of multiple documents: sentence extraction, utility-based evaluation, and user studies

We present a multi-document summarizer, called MEAD, which generates summaries using cluster centroids produced by a topic detection and tracking system. We also describe two new techniques, based on sentence utility and subsumption, which we have applied to the evaluation of both single and multiple document summaries. Finally, we describe two user studies that test our models of multi-document summarization.

Modeling the Uncertainty in Complex Engineering Systems

Existing procedures for model validation have been deemed inadequate for many engineering systems. The reason of this inadequacy is due to the high degree of complexity of the mechanisms that govern these systems. It is proposed in this paper to shift the attention from modeling the engineering system itself to modeling the uncertainty that underlies its behavior. A mathematical framework for modeling the uncertainty in complex engineering systems is developed. This framework uses the results of computational learning theory. It is based on the premise that a system model is a learning machine.

C++ programming language for an abstract massively parallel SIMD architecture

The aim of this work is to define and implement an extended C++ language to support the SIMD programming paradigm. The C++ programming language has been extended to express all the potentiality of an abstract SIMD machine consisting of a central Control Processor and a N-dimensional toroidal array of Numeric Processors. Very few extensions have been added to the standard C++ with the goal of minimising the effort for the programmer in learning a new language and to keep very high the performance of the compiled code. The proposed language has been implemented as a porting of the GNU C++ Compiler on a SIMD supercomputer.

The SAT Phase Transition

Phase transition is an important feature of SAT problem. For random k-SAT model, it is proved that as r (ratio of clauses to variables) increases, the structure of solutions will undergo a sudden change like satisfiability phase transition when r reaches a threshold point. This phenomenon shows that the satisfying truth assignments suddenly shift from being relatively different from each other to being very similar to each other.

Finite-State Reduplication in One-Level Prosodic Morphology

Reduplication, a central instance of prosodic morphology, is particularly challenging for state-of-the-art computational morphology, since it involves copying of some part of a phonological string. In this paper I advocate a finite-state method that combines enriched lexical representations via intersection to implement the copying. The proposal includes a resource-conscious variant of automata and can benefit from the existence of lazy algorithms. Finally, the implementation of a complex case from Koasati is presented.

A One-Time Pad based Cipher for Data Protection in Distributed Environments

A one-time pad (OTP) based cipher to insure both data protection and integrity when mobile code arrives to a remote host is presented. Data protection is required when a mobile agent could retrieve confidential information that would be encrypted in untrusted nodes of the network; in this case, information management could not rely on carrying an encryption key. Data integrity is a prerequisite because mobile code must be protected against malicious hosts that, by counterfeiting or removing collected data, could cover information to the server that has sent the agent. The algorithm described in this article seems to be simple enough, so as to be easily implemented. This scheme is based on a non-interactive protocol and allows a remote host to change its own data on-the-fly and, at the same time, protecting information against handling by other hosts.

A method for command identification, using modified collision free hashing with addition & rotation iterative hash functions (part 1)

This paper proposes a method for identification of a user`s fixed string set (which can be a command/instruction set for a terminal or microprocessor). This method is fast and has very small memory requirements, compared to a traditional full string storage and compare method. The user feeds characters into a microcontroller via a keyboard or another microprocessor sends commands and the microcontroller hashes the input in order to identify valid commands, ensuring no collisions between hashed valid strings, while applying further criteria to narrow collision between random and valid strings. The method proposed narrows the possibility of the latter kind of collision, achieving small code and memory-size utilization and very fast execution. Hashing is achieved using additive & rotating hash functions in an iterative form, which can be very easily implemented in simple microcontrollers and microprocessors. Such hash functions are presented and compared according to their efficiency for a given string/command set, using the program found in the appendix.

Ranking suspected answers to natural language questions using predictive annotation

In this paper, we describe a system to rank suspected answers to natural language questions. We process both corpus and query using a new technique, predictive annotation, which augments phrases in texts with labels anticipating their being targets of certain kinds of questions. Given a natural language question, an IR system returns a set of matching passages, which are then analyzed and ranked according to various criteria described in this paper. We provide an evaluation of the techniques based on results from the TREC Q&A evaluation in which our system participated.

Axiomatizing Causal Reasoning

Causal models defined in terms of a collection of equations, as defined by Pearl, are axiomatized here. Axiomatizations are provided for three successively more general classes of causal models: (1) the class of recursive theories (those without feedback), (2) the class of theories where the solutions to the equations are unique, (3) arbitrary theories (where the equations may not have solutions and, if they do, they are not necessarily unique). It is shown that to reason about causality in the most general third class, we must extend the language used by Galles and Pearl. In addition, the complexity of the decision procedures is characterized for all the languages and classes of models considered.

Boosting the Differences: A fast Bayesian classifier neural network

A Bayesian classifier that up-weights the differences in the attribute values is discussed. Using four popular datasets from the UCI repository, some interesting features of the network are illustrated. The network is suitable for classification problems.

Distorted English Alphabet Identification : An application of Difference Boosting Algorithm

The difference-boosting algorithm is used on letters dataset from the UCI repository to classify distorted raster images of English alphabets. In contrast to rather complex networks, the difference-boosting is found to produce comparable or better classification efficiency on this complex problem.

Exploiting Diversity in Natural Language Processing: Combining Parsers

Three state-of-the-art statistical parsers are combined to produce more accurate parses, as well as new bounds on achievable Treebank parsing accuracy. Two general approaches are presented and two combination techniques are described for each approach. Both parametric and non-parametric models are explored. The resulting parsers surpass the best previously published performance results for the Penn Treebank.

Novelty Detection for Robot Neotaxis

The ability of a robot to detect and respond to changes in its environment is potentially very useful, as it draws attention to new and potentially important features. We describe an algorithm for learning to filter out previously experienced stimuli to allow further concentration on novel features. The algorithm uses a model of habituation, a biological process which causes a decrement in response with repeated presentation. Experiments with a mobile robot are presented in which the robot detects the most novel stimulus and turns towards it (`neotaxis').

A Real-Time Novelty Detector for a Mobile Robot

Recognising new or unusual features of an environment is an ability which is potentially very useful to a robot. This paper demonstrates an algorithm which achieves this task by learning an internal representation of `normality' from sonar scans taken as a robot explores the environment. This model of the environment is used to evaluate the novelty of each sonar scan presented to it with relation to the model. Stimuli which have not been seen before, and therefore have more novelty, are highlighted by the filter. The filter has the ability to forget about features which have been learned, so that stimuli which are seen only rarely recover their response over time. A number of robot experiments are presented which demonstrate the operation of the filter.

Novelty Detection on a Mobile Robot Using Habituation

In this paper a novelty filter is introduced which allows a robot operating in an un structured environment to produce a self-organised model of its surroundings and to detect deviations from the learned model. The environment is perceived using the rob ot's 16 sonar sensors. The algorithm produces a novelty measure for each sensor scan relative to the model it has learned. This means that it highlights stimuli which h ave not been previously experienced. The novelty filter proposed uses a model of hab ituation. Habituation is a decrement in behavioural response when a stimulus is pre sented repeatedly. Robot experiments are presented which demonstrate the reliable o peration of the filter in a number of environments.

Performing work efficiently in the presence of faults

We consider a system of t synchronous processes that communicate only by sending messages to one another, and that together must perform $n$ independent units of work. Processes may fail by crashing; we want to guarantee that in every execution of the protocol in which at least one process survives, all n units of work will be performed. We consider three parameters: the number of messages sent, the total number of units of work performed (including multiplicities), and time. We present three protocols for solving the problem. All three are work-optimal, doing O(n+t) work. The first has moderate costs in the remaining two parameters, sending O(t\sqrt{t}) messages, and taking O(n+t) time. This protocol can be easily modified to run in any completely asynchronous system equipped with a failure detection mechanism. The second sends only O(t log{t}) messages, but its running time is large (exponential in n and t). The third is essentially time-optimal in the (usual) case in which there are no failures, and its time complexity degrades gracefully as the number of failures increases.

Knowledge and common knowledge in a distributed environment

Reasoning about knowledge seems to play a fundamental role in distributed systems. Indeed, such reasoning is a central part of the informal intuitive arguments used in the design of distributed protocols. Communication in a distributed system can be viewed as the act of transforming the system's state of knowledge. This paper presents a general framework for formalizing and reasoning about knowledge in distributed systems. We argue that states of knowledge of groups of processors are useful concepts for the design and analysis of distributed protocols. In particular, distributed knowledge corresponds to knowledge that is ``distributed'' among the members of the group, while common knowledge corresponds to a fact being ``publicly known''. The relationship between common knowledge and a variety of desirable actions in a distributed system is illustrated. Furthermore, it is shown that, formally speaking, in practical systems common knowledge cannot be attained. A number of weaker variants of common knowledge that are attainable in many cases of interest are introduced and investigated.

Bagging and Boosting a Treebank Parser

Bagging and boosting, two effective machine learning techniques, are applied to natural language parsing. Experiments using these techniques with a trainable statistical parser are described. The best resulting system provides roughly as large of a gain in F-measure as doubling the corpus size. Error analysis of the result of the boosting technique reveals some inconsistent annotations in the Penn Treebank, suggesting a semi-automatic method for finding inconsistent treebank annotations.

Solaris System Resource Manager: All I Ever Wanted Was My Unfair Advantage (And Why You Can't Have It!)

Traditional UNIX time-share schedulers attempt to be fair to all users by employing a round-robin style algorithm for allocating CPU time. Unfortunately, a loophole exists whereby the scheduler can be biased in favor of a greedy user running many short CPU-time processes. This loophole is not a defect but an intrinsic property of the round-robin scheduler that ensures responsiveness to the short CPU demands associated with multiple interactive users. A new generation of UNIX system resource management software constrains the scheduler to be equitable to all users regardless of the number of processes each may be running. This "fair-share" scheduling draws on the concept of pro rating resource "shares" across users and groups and then dynamically adjusting CPU usage to meet those share proportions. The simple notion of statically allocating these shares, however, belies the potential consequences for performance as measured by user response time and service level targets. We demonstrate this point by modeling several simple share allocation scenarios and analyzing the corresponding performance effects. A brief comparison of commercial system resource management implementations from HP, IBM, and SUN is also given.

UNIX Resource Managers: Capacity Planning and Resource Issues

The latest implementations of commercial UNIX to offer mainframe style capacity management on enterprise servers include: AIX Workload Manager (WLM), HP-UX Process Resource Manager (PRM), Solaris Resource Manager (SRM), as well as SGI and Compaq. The ability to manage server capacity is achieved by making significant modifications to the standard UNIX operating system so that processes are inherently tied to specific users. Those users, in turn, are granted only a certain fraction of system resources. Resource usage is monitored and compared with each users grant to ensure that the assigned entitlement constraints are met. In this paper, we begin by clearing up some of the confusion that has surrounded the motivation and the terminology behind the new technology. The common theme across each of the commercial implementations is the introduction of the fair-share scheduler. After reviewing some potential performance pitfalls, we present capacity planning guidelines for migrating to automated UNIX resource management.

The X-Files: Investigating Alien Performance in a Thin-client World

Many scientific applications use the X11 window environment; an open source windows GUI standard employing a client/server architecture. X11 promotes: distributed computing, thin-client functionality, cheap desktop displays, compatibility with heterogeneous servers, remote services and administration, and greater maturity than newer web technologies. This paper details the author's investigations into close encounters with alien performance in X11-based seismic applications running on a 200-node cluster, backed by 2 TB of mass storage. End-users cited two significant UFOs (Unidentified Faulty Operations) i) long application launch times and ii) poor interactive response times. The paper is divided into three major sections describing Close Encounters of the 1st Kind: citings of UFO experiences, the 2nd Kind: recording evidence of a UFO, and the 3rd Kind: contact and analysis. UFOs do exist and this investigation presents a real case study for evaluating workload analysis and other diagnostic tools.

Turning Speech Into Scripts

We describe an architecture for implementing spoken natural language dialogue interfaces to semi-autonomous systems, in which the central idea is to transform the input speech signal through successive levels of representation corresponding roughly to linguistic knowledge, dialogue knowledge, and domain knowledge. The final representation is an executable program in a simple scripting language equivalent to a subset of Cshell. At each stage of the translation process, an input is transformed into an output, producing as a byproduct a "meta-output" which describes the nature of the transformation performed. We show how consistent use of the output/meta-output distinction permits a simple and perspicuous treatment of apparently diverse topics including resolution of pronouns, correction of user misconceptions, and optimization of scripts. The methods described have been concretely realized in a prototype speech interface to a simulation of the Personal Satellite Assistant.

A Compact Architecture for Dialogue Management Based on Scripts and Meta-Outputs

We describe an architecture for spoken dialogue interfaces to semi-autonomous systems that transforms speech signals through successive representations of linguistic, dialogue, and domain knowledge. Each step produces an output, and a meta-output describing the transformation, with an executable program in a simple scripting language as the final result. The output/meta-output distinction permits perspicuous treatment of diverse tasks such as resolving pronouns, correcting user misconceptions, and optimizing scripts.

A Comparison of the XTAG and CLE Grammars for English

When people develop something intended as a large broad-coverage grammar, they usually have a more specific goal in mind. Sometimes this goal is covering a corpus; sometimes the developers have theoretical ideas they wish to investigate; most often, work is driven by a combination of these two main types of goal. What tends to happen after a while is that the community of people working with the grammar starts thinking of some phenomena as ``central'', and makes serious efforts to deal with them; other phenomena are labelled ``marginal'', and ignored. Before long, the distinction between ``central'' and ``marginal'' becomes so ingrained that it is automatic, and people virtually stop thinking about the ``marginal'' phenomena. In practice, the only way to bring the marginal things back into focus is to look at what other people are doing and compare it with one's own work. In this paper, we will take two large grammars, XTAG and the CLE, and examine each of them from the other's point of view. We will find in both cases not only that important things are missing, but that the perspective offered by the other grammar suggests simple and practical ways of filling in the holes. It turns out that there is a pleasing symmetry to the picture. XTAG has a very good treatment of complement structure, which the CLE to some extent lacks; conversely, the CLE offers a powerful and general account of adjuncts, which the XTAG grammar does not fully duplicate. If we examine the way in which each grammar does the thing it is good at, we find that the relevant methods are quite easy to port to the other framework, and in fact only involve generalization and systematization of existing mechanisms.

Compiling Language Models from a Linguistically Motivated Unification Grammar

Systems now exist which are able to compile unification grammars into language models that can be included in a speech recognizer, but it is so far unclear whether non-trivial linguistically principled grammars can be used for this purpose. We describe a series of experiments which investigate the question empirically, by incrementally constructing a grammar and discovering what problems emerge when successively larger versions are compiled into finite state graph representations and used as language models for a medium-vocabulary recognition task.

Multicast-based Architecture for IP Mobility: Simulation Analysis and Comparison with Basic Mobile IP

With the introduction of a newer generation of wireless devices and technologies, the need for an efficient architecture for IP mobility is becoming more apparent. Several architectures have been proposed to support IP mobility. Most studies, however, show that current architectures, in general, fall short from satisfying the performance requirements for wireless applications, mainly audio. Other studies have shown performance improvement by using multicast to reduce latency and packet loss during handoff. In this study, we propose a multicast-based architecture to support IP mobility. We evaluate our approach through simulation, and we compare it to mainstream approaches for IP mobility, mainly, the Mobile IP protocol. Comparison is performed according to the required performance criteria, such as smooth handoff and efficient routing.
Our simulation results show significant improvement for the proposed architecture. On average, basic Mobile IP consumes almost twice as much network bandwidth, and experiences more than twice as much end-to-end and handoff delays, as does our proposed architecture. Furthermore, we propose an extension to Mobile IP to support our architecture with minimal modification.

Can Prosody Aid the Automatic Classification of Dialog Acts in Conversational Speech?

Identifying whether an utterance is a statement, question, greeting, and so forth is integral to effective automatic understanding of natural dialog. Little is known, however, about how such dialog acts (DAs) can be automatically classified in truly natural conversation. This study asks whether current approaches, which use mainly word information, could be improved by adding prosodic information. The study is based on more than 1000 conversations from the Switchboard corpus. DAs were hand-annotated, and prosodic features (duration, pause, F0, energy, and speaking rate) were automatically extracted for each DA. In training, decision trees based on these features were inferred; trees were then applied to unseen test data to evaluate performance. Performance was evaluated for prosody models alone, and after combining the prosody models with word information -- either from true words or from the output of an automatic speech recognizer. For an overall classification task, as well as three subtasks, prosody made significant contributions to classification. Feature-specific analyses further revealed that although canonical features (such as F0 for questions) were important, less obvious features could compensate if canonical features were removed. Finally, in each task, integrating the prosodic model with a DA-specific statistical language model improved performance over that of the language model alone, especially for the case of recognized words. Results suggest that DAs are redundantly marked in natural conversation, and that a variety of automatically extractable prosodic features could aid dialog processing in speech applications.

Entropy-based Pruning of Backoff Language Models

A criterion for pruning parameters from N-gram backoff language models is developed, based on the relative entropy between the original and the pruned model. It is shown that the relative entropy resulting from pruning a single N-gram can be computed exactly and efficiently for backoff models. The relative entropy measure can be expressed as a relative change in training set perplexity. This leads to a simple pruning criterion whereby all N-grams that change perplexity by less than a threshold are removed from the model. Experiments show that a production-quality Hub4 LM can be reduced to 26% its original size without increasing recognition error. We also compare the approach to a heuristic pruning criterion by Seymore and Rosenfeld (1996), and show that their approach can be interpreted as an approximation to the relative entropy criterion. Experimentally, both approaches select similar sets of N-grams (about 85% overlap), with the exact relative entropy criterion giving marginally better performance.

Verbal Interactions in Virtual Worlds

We first discuss respective advantages of language interaction in virtual worlds and of using 3D images in dialogue systems. Then, we describe an example of a verbal interaction system in virtual reality: Ulysse. Ulysse is a conversational agent that helps a user navigate in virtual worlds. It has been designed to be embedded in the representation of a participant of a virtual conference and it responds positively to motion orders. Ulysse navigates the user's viewpoint on his/her behalf in the virtual world. On tests we carried out, we discovered that users, novices as well as experienced ones have difficulties moving in a 3D environment. Agents such as Ulysse enable a user to carry out navigation motions that would have been impossible with classical interaction devices. From the whole Ulysse system, we have stripped off a skeleton architecture that we have ported to VRML, Java, and Prolog. We hope this skeleton helps the design of language applications in virtual worlds.

Trainable Methods for Surface Natural Language Generation

We present three systems for surface natural language generation that are trainable from annotated corpora. The first two systems, called NLG1 and NLG2, require a corpus marked only with domain-specific semantic attributes, while the last system, called NLG3, requires a corpus marked with both semantic attributes and syntactic dependency information. All systems attempt to produce a grammatical natural language phrase from a domain-specific semantic representation. NLG1 serves a baseline system and uses phrase frequencies to generate a whole phrase in one step, while NLG2 and NLG3 use maximum entropy probability models to individually generate each word in the phrase. The systems NLG2 and NLG3 learn to determine both the word choice and the word order of the phrase. We present experiments in which we generate phrases to describe flights in the air travel domain.

Systematic Performance Evaluation of Multipoint Protocols

The advent of multipoint (multicast-based) applications and the growth and complexity of the Internet has complicated network protocol design and evaluation.
In this paper, we present a method for automatic synthesis of worst and best case scenarios for multipoint protocol performance evaluation.
Our method uses a fault-oriented test generation (FOTG) algorithm for searching the protocol and system state space to synthesize these scenarios. The algorithm is based on a global finite state machine (FSM) model. We extend the algorithm with timing semantics to handle end-to-end delays and address performance criteria. We introduce the notion of a virtual LAN to represent delays of the underlying multicast distribution tree.
As a case study, we use our method to evaluate variants of the timer suppression mechanism, used in various multipoint protocols, with respect to two performance criteria: overhead of response messages and response time. Simulation results for reliable multicast protocols show that our method provides a scalable way for synthesizing worst-case scenarios automatically. We expect our method to serve as a model for applying systematic scenario generation to other multipoint protocols.

Multiagent Control of Self-reconfigurable Robots

We demonstrate how multiagent systems provide useful control techniques for modular self-reconfigurable (metamorphic) robots. Such robots consist of many modules that can move relative to each other, thereby changing the overall shape of the robot to suit different tasks. Multiagent control is particularly well-suited for tasks involving uncertain and changing environments. We illustrate this approach through simulation experiments of Proteo, a metamorphic robot system currently under development.

Verifying Termination of General Logic Programs with Concrete Queries

We introduce a method of verifying termination of logic programs with respect to concrete queries (instead of abstract query patterns). A necessary and sufficient condition is established and an algorithm for automatic verification is developed. In contrast to existing query pattern-based approaches, our method has the following features: (1) It applies to all general logic programs with non-floundering queries. (2) It is very easy to automate because it does not need to search for a level mapping or a model, nor does it need to compute an interargument relation based on additional mode or type information. (3) It bridges termination analysis with loop checking, the two problems that have been studied separately in the past despite their close technical relation with each other.

Type Classes and Constraint Handling Rules

Type classes are an elegant extension to traditional, Hindley-Milner based typing systems. They are used in modern, typed languages such as Haskell to support controlled overloading of symbols. Haskell 98 supports only single-parameter and constructor type classes. Other extensions such as multi-parameter type classes are highly desired but are still not officially supported by Haskell. Subtle issues arise with extensions, which may lead to a loss of feasible type inference or ambiguous programs. A proper logical basis for type class systems seems to be missing. Such a basis would allow extensions to be characterised and studied rigorously. We propose to employ Constraint Handling Rules as a tool to study and develop type class systems in a uniform way.

A Decision-Theoretic Approach to Resource Allocation in Wireless Multimedia Networks

The allocation of scarce spectral resources to support as many user applications as possible while maintaining reasonable quality of service is a fundamental problem in wireless communication. We argue that the problem is best formulated in terms of decision theory. We propose a scheme that takes decision-theoretic concerns (like preferences) into account and discuss the difficulties and subtleties involved in applying standard techniques from the theory of Markov Decision Processes (MDPs) in constructing an algorithm that is decision-theoretically optimal. As an example of the proposed framework, we construct such an algorithm under some simplifying assumptions. Additionally, we present analysis and simulation results that show that our algorithm meets its design goals. Finally, we investigate how far from optimal one well-known heuristic is. The main contribution of our results is in providing insight and guidance for the design of near-optimal admission-control policies.

Approximation and Exactness in Finite State Optimality Theory

Previous work (Frank and Satta 1998; Karttunen, 1998) has shown that Optimality Theory with gradient constraints generally is not finite state. A new finite-state treatment of gradient constraints is presented which improves upon the approximation of Karttunen (1998). The method turns out to be exact, and very compact, for the syllabification analysis of Prince and Smolensky (1993).

Correlation over Decomposed Signals: A Non-Linear Approach to Fast and Effective Sequences Comparison

A novel non-linear approach to fast and effective comparison of sequences is presented, compared to the traditional cross-correlation operator, and illustrated with respect to DNA sequences.

Using a Diathesis Model for Semantic Parsing

This paper presents a semantic parsing approach for unrestricted texts. Semantic parsing is one of the major bottlenecks of Natural Language Understanding (NLU) systems and usually requires building expensive resources not easily portable to other domains. Our approach obtains a case-role analysis, in which the semantic roles of the verb are identified. In order to cover all the possible syntactic realisations of a verb, our system combines their argument structure with a set of general semantic labelled diatheses models. Combining them, the system builds a set of syntactic-semantic patterns with their own role-case representation. Once the patterns are build, we use an approximate tree pattern-matching algorithm to identify the most reliable pattern for a sentence. The pattern matching is performed between the syntactic-semantic patterns and the feature-structure tree representing the morphological, syntactical and semantic information of the analysed sentence. For sentences assigned to the correct model, the semantic parsing system we are presenting identifies correctly more than 73% of possible semantic case-roles.

Semantic Parsing based on Verbal Subcategorization

The aim of this work is to explore new methodologies on Semantic Parsing for unrestricted texts. Our approach follows the current trends in Information Extraction (IE) and is based on the application of a verbal subcategorization lexicon (LEXPIR) by means of complex pattern recognition techniques. LEXPIR is framed on the theoretical model of the verbal subcategorization developed in the Pirapides project.

Constraint compiling into rules formalism constraint compiling into rules formalism for dynamic CSPs computing

In this paper we present a rule based formalism for filtering variables domains of constraints. This formalism is well adapted for solving dynamic CSP. We take diagnosis as an instance problem to illustrate the use of these rules. A diagnosis problem is seen like finding all the minimal sets of constraints to be relaxed in the constraint network that models the device to be diagnosed

Security Policy Consistency

With the advent of wide security platforms able to express simultaneously all the policies comprising an organization's global security policy, the problem of inconsistencies within security policies become harder and more relevant.
We have defined a tool based on the CHR language which is able to detect several types of inconsistencies within and between security policies and other specifications, namely workflow specifications.
Although the problem of security conflicts has been addressed by several authors, to our knowledge none has addressed the general problem of security inconsistencies, on its several definitions and target specifications.

Constraint Exploration and Envelope of Simulation Trajectories

The implicit theory that a simulation represents is precisely not in the individual choices but rather in the 'envelope' of possible trajectories - what is important is the shape of the whole envelope. Typically a huge amount of computation is required when experimenting with factors bearing on the dynamics of a simulation to tease out what affects the shape of this envelope. In this paper we present a methodology aimed at systematically exploring this envelope. We propose a method for searching for tendencies and proving their necessity relative to a range of parameterisations of the model and agents' choices, and to the logic of the simulation language. The exploration consists of a forward chaining generation of the trajectories associated to and constrained by such a range of parameterisations and choices. Additionally, we propose a computational procedure that helps implement this exploration by translating a Multi Agent System simulation into a constraint-based search over possible trajectories by 'compiling' the simulation rules into a more specific form, namely by partitioning the simulation rules using appropriate modularity in the simulation. An example of this procedure is exhibited.
Keywords: Constraint Search, Constraint Logic Programming, Proof, Emergence, Tendencies

Using compression to identify acronyms in text

Text mining is about looking for patterns in natural language text, and may be defined as the process of analyzing text to extract information from it for particular purposes. In previous work, we claimed that compression is a key technology for text mining, and backed this up with a study that showed how particular kinds of lexical tokens---names, dates, locations, etc.---can be identified and located in running text, using compression models to provide the leverage necessary to distinguish different token types (Witten et al., 1999)

Brainstorm/J: a Java Framework for Intelligent Agents

Despite the effort of many researchers in the area of multi-agent systems (MAS) for designing and programming agents, a few years ago the research community began to take into account that common features among different MAS exists. Based on these common features, several tools have tackled the problem of agent development on specific application domains or specific types of agents. As a consequence, their scope is restricted to a subset of the huge application domain of MAS. In this paper we propose a generic infrastructure for programming agents whose name is Brainstorm/J. The infrastructure has been implemented as an object oriented framework. As a consequence, our approach supports a broader scope of MAS applications than previous efforts, being flexible and reusable.

Systematic Testing of Multicast Routing Protocols: Analysis of Forward and Backward Search Techniques

In this paper, we present a new methodology for developing systematic and automatic test generation algorithms for multipoint protocols. These algorithms attempt to synthesize network topologies and sequences of events that stress the protocol's correctness or performance. This problem can be viewed as a domain-specific search problem that suffers from the state space explosion problem. One goal of this work is to circumvent the state space explosion problem utilizing knowledge of network and fault modeling, and multipoint protocols. The two approaches investigated in this study are based on forward and backward search techniques. We use an extended finite state machine (FSM) model of the protocol. The first algorithm uses forward search to perform reduced reachability analysis. Using domain-specific information for multicast routing over LANs, the algorithm complexity is reduced from exponential to polynomial in the number of routers. This approach, however, does not fully automate topology synthesis. The second algorithm, the fault-oriented test generation, uses backward search for topology synthesis and uses backtracking to generate event sequences instead of searching forward from initial states. Using these algorithms, we have conducted studies for correctness of the multicast routing protocol PIM. We propose to extend these algorithms to study end-to-end multipoint protocols using a virtual LAN that represents delays of the underlying multicast distribution tree.

DISCO: An object-oriented system for music composition and sound design

This paper describes an object-oriented approach to music composition and sound design. The approach unifies the processes of music making and instrument building by using similar logic, objects, and procedures. The composition modules use an abstract representation of musical data, which can be easily mapped onto different synthesis languages or a traditionally notated score. An abstract base class is used to derive classes on different time scales. Objects can be related to act across time scales, as well as across an entire piece, and relationships between similar objects can replicate traditional music operations or introduce new ones. The DISCO (Digital Instrument for Sonification and Composition) system is an open-ended work in progress.

Data sonification and sound visualization

This article describes a collaborative project between researchers in the Mathematics and Computer Science Division at Argonne National Laboratory and the Computer Music Project of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The project focuses on the use of sound for the exploration and analysis of complex data sets in scientific computing. The article addresses digital sound synthesis in the context of DIASS (Digital Instrument for Additive Sound Synthesis) and sound visualization in a virtual-reality environment by means of M4CAVE. It describes the procedures and preliminary results of some experiments in scientific sonification and sound visualization.

Incremental construction of minimal acyclic finite-state automata

In this paper, we describe a new method for constructing minimal, deterministic, acyclic finite-state automata from a set of strings. Traditional methods consist of two phases: the first to construct a trie, the second one to minimize it. Our approach is to construct a minimal automaton in a single phase by adding new strings one by one and minimizing the resulting automaton on-the-fly. We present a general algorithm as well as a specialization that relies upon the lexicographical ordering of the input strings.

Boosting Applied to Word Sense Disambiguation

In this paper Schapire and Singer's AdaBoost.MH boosting algorithm is applied to the Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) problem. Initial experiments on a set of 15 selected polysemous words show that the boosting approach surpasses Naive Bayes and Exemplar-based approaches, which represent state-of-the-art accuracy on supervised WSD. In order to make boosting practical for a real learning domain of thousands of words, several ways of accelerating the algorithm by reducing the feature space are studied. The best variant, which we call LazyBoosting, is tested on the largest sense-tagged corpus available containing 192,800 examples of the 191 most frequent and ambiguous English words. Again, boosting compares favourably to the other benchmark algorithms.

Naive Bayes and Exemplar-Based approaches to Word Sense Disambiguation Revisited

This paper describes an experimental comparison between two standard supervised learning methods, namely Naive Bayes and Exemplar-based classification, on the Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) problem. The aim of the work is twofold. Firstly, it attempts to contribute to clarify some confusing information about the comparison between both methods appearing in the related literature. In doing so, several directions have been explored, including: testing several modifications of the basic learning algorithms and varying the feature space. Secondly, an improvement of both algorithms is proposed, in order to deal with large attribute sets. This modification, which basically consists in using only the positive information appearing in the examples, allows to improve greatly the efficiency of the methods, with no loss in accuracy. The experiments have been performed on the largest sense-tagged corpus available containing the most frequent and ambiguous English words. Results show that the Exemplar-based approach to WSD is generally superior to the Bayesian approach, especially when a specific metric for dealing with symbolic attributes is used.

Using Learning-based Filters to Detect Rule-based Filtering Obsolescence

For years, Caisse des Depots et Consignations has produced information filtering applications. To be operational, these applications require high filtering performances which are achieved by using rule-based filters. With this technique, an administrator has to tune a set of rules for each topic. However, filters become obsolescent over time. The decrease of their performances is due to diachronic polysemy of terms that involves a loss of precision and to diachronic polymorphism of concepts that involves a loss of recall.
To help the administrator to maintain his filters, we have developed a method which automatically detects filtering obsolescence. It consists in making a learning-based control filter using a set of documents which have already been categorised as relevant or not relevant by the rule-based filter. The idea is to supervise this filter by processing a differential comparison of its outcomes with those of the control one.
This method has many advantages. It is simple to implement since the training set used by the learning is supplied by the rule-based filter. Thus, both the making and the use of the control filter are fully automatic. With automatic detection of obsolescence, learning-based filtering finds a rich application which offers interesting prospects.

Applying Constraint Handling Rules to HPSG

Constraint Handling Rules (CHR) have provided a realistic solution to an over-arching problem in many fields that deal with constraint logic programming: how to combine recursive functions or relations with constraints while avoiding non-termination problems. This paper focuses on some other benefits that CHR, specifically their implementation in SICStus Prolog, have provided to computational linguists working on grammar design tools. CHR rules are applied by means of a subsumption check and this check is made only when their variables are instantiated or bound. The former functionality is at best difficult to simulate using more primitive coroutining statements such as SICStus when/2, and the latter simply did not exist in any form before CHR.
For the sake of providing a case study in how these can be applied to grammar development, we consider the Attribute Logic Engine (ALE), a Prolog preprocessor for logic programming with typed feature structures, and its extension to a complete grammar development system for Head-driven Phrase Structure Grammar (HPSG), a popular constraint-based linguistic theory that uses typed feature structures. In this context, CHR can be used not only to extend the constraint language of feature structure descriptions to include relations in a declarative way, but also to provide support for constraints with complex antecedents and constraints on the co-occurrence of feature values that are necessary to interpret the type system of HPSG properly.

Phase Clocks for Transient Fault Repair

Phase clocks are synchronization tools that implement a form of logical time in distributed systems. For systems tolerating transient faults by self-repair of damaged data, phase clocks can enable reasoning about the progress of distributed repair procedures. This paper presents a phase clock algorithm suited to the model of transient memory faults in asynchronous systems with read/write registers. The algorithm is self-stabilizing and guarantees accuracy of phase clocks within O(k) time following an initial state that is k-faulty. Composition theorems show how the algorithm can be used for the timing of distributed procedures that repair system outputs.

Two Steps Feature Selection and Neural Network Classification for the TREC-8 Routing

For the TREC-8 routing, one specific filter is built for each topic. Each filter is a classifier trained to recognize the documents that are relevant to the topic. When presented with a document, each classifier estimates the probability for the document to be relevant to the topic for which it has been trained. Since the procedure for building a filter is topic-independent, the system is fully automatic.
By making use of a sample of documents that have previously been evaluated as relevant or not relevant to a particular topic, a term selection is performed, and a neural network is trained. Each document is represented by a vector of frequencies of a list of selected terms. This list depends on the topic to be filtered; it is constructed in two steps. The first step defines the characteristic words used in the relevant documents of the corpus; the second one chooses, among the previous list, the most discriminant ones. The length of the vector is optimized automatically for each topic. At the end of the term selection, a vector of typically 25 words is defined for the topic, so that each document which has to be processed is represented by a vector of term frequencies.
This vector is subsequently input to a classifier that is trained from the same sample. After training, the classifier estimates for each document of a test set its probability of being relevant; for submission to TREC, the top 1000 documents are ranked in order of decreasing relevance.

Fuzzy data: XML may handle it

Data modeling is one of the most difficult tasks in application engineering. The engineer must be aware of the use cases and the required application services and at a certain point of time he has to fix the data model which forms the base for the application services. However, once the data model has been fixed it is difficult to consider changing needs. This might be a problem in specific domains, which are as dynamic as the healthcare domain. With fuzzy data we address all those data that are difficult to organize in a single database. In this paper we discuss a gradual and pragmatic approach that uses the XML technology to conquer more model flexibility. XML may provide the clue between unstructured text data and structured database solutions and shift the paradigm from "organizing the data along a given model" towards "organizing the data along user requirements".

Bootstrapping a Tagged Corpus through Combination of Existing Heterogeneous Taggers

This paper describes a new method, Combi-bootstrap, to exploit existing taggers and lexical resources for the annotation of corpora with new tagsets. Combi-bootstrap uses existing resources as features for a second level machine learning module, that is trained to make the mapping to the new tagset on a very small sample of annotated corpus material. Experiments show that Combi-bootstrap: i) can integrate a wide variety of existing resources, and ii) achieves much higher accuracy (up to 44.7 % error reduction) than both the best single tagger and an ensemble tagger constructed out of the same small training sample.

Examples, Counterexamples, and Enumeration Results for Foldings and Unfoldings between Polygons and Polytopes

We investigate how to make the surface of a convex polyhedron (a polytope) by folding up a polygon and gluing its perimeter shut, and the reverse process of cutting open a polytope and unfolding it to a polygon. We explore basic enumeration questions in both directions: Given a polygon, how many foldings are there? Given a polytope, how many unfoldings are there to simple polygons? Throughout we give special attention to convex polygons, and to regular polygons. We show that every convex polygon folds to an infinite number of distinct polytopes, but that their number of combinatorially distinct gluings is polynomial. There are, however, simple polygons with an exponential number of distinct gluings.
In the reverse direction, we show that there are polytopes with an exponential number of distinct cuttings that lead to simple unfoldings. We establish necessary conditions for a polytope to have convex unfoldings, implying, for example, that among the Platonic solids, only the tetrahedron has a convex unfolding. We provide an inventory of the polytopes that may unfold to regular polygons, showing that, for n>6, there is essentially only one class of such polytopes.

Polynomial-time Computation via Local Inference Relations

We consider the concept of a local set of inference rules. A local rule set can be automatically transformed into a rule set for which bottom-up evaluation terminates in polynomial time. The local-rule-set transformation gives polynomial-time evaluation strategies for a large variety of rule sets that cannot be given terminating evaluation strategies by any other known automatic technique. This paper discusses three new results. First, it is shown that every polynomial-time predicate can be defined by an (unstratified) local rule set. Second, a new machine-recognizable subclass of the local rule sets is identified. Finally we show that locality, as a property of rule sets, is undecidable in general.

PushPush and Push-1 are NP-hard in 2D

We prove that two pushing-blocks puzzles are intractable in 2D. One of our constructions improves an earlier result that established intractability in 3D [OS99] for a puzzle inspired by the game PushPush. The second construction answers a question we raised in [DDO00] for a variant we call Push-1. Both puzzles consist of unit square blocks on an integer lattice; all blocks are movable. An agent may push blocks (but never pull them) in attempting to move between given start and goal positions. In the PushPush version, the agent can only push one block at a time, and moreover when a block is pushed it slides the maximal extent of its free range. In the Push-1 version, the agent can only push one block one square at a time, the minimal extent---one square. Both NP-hardness proofs are by reduction from SAT, and rely on a common construction.

ATLAS: A flexible and extensible architecture for linguistic annotation

We describe a formal model for annotating linguistic artifacts, from which we derive an application programming interface (API) to a suite of tools for manipulating these annotations. The abstract logical model provides for a range of storage formats and promotes the reuse of tools that interact through this API. We focus first on ``Annotation Graphs,'' a graph model for annotations on linear signals (such as text and speech) indexed by intervals, for which efficient database storage and querying techniques are applicable. We note how a wide range of existing annotated corpora can be mapped to this annotation graph model. This model is then generalized to encompass a wider variety of linguistic ``signals,'' including both naturally occuring phenomena (as recorded in images, video, multi-modal interactions, etc.), as well as the derived resources that are increasingly important to the engineering of natural language processing systems (such as word lists, dictionaries, aligned bilingual corpora, etc.). We conclude with a review of the current efforts towards implementing key pieces of this architecture.

Towards a query language for annotation graphs

The multidimensional, heterogeneous, and temporal nature of speech databases raises interesting challenges for representation and query. Recently, annotation graphs have been proposed as a general-purpose representational framework for speech databases. Typical queries on annotation graphs require path expressions similar to those used in semistructured query languages. However, the underlying model is rather different from the customary graph models for semistructured data: the graph is acyclic and unrooted, and both temporal and inclusion relationships are important. We develop a query language and describe optimization techniques for an underlying relational representation.

Many uses, many annotations for large speech corpora: Switchboard and TDT as case studies

This paper discusses the challenges that arise when large speech corpora receive an ever-broadening range of diverse and distinct annotations. Two case studies of this process are presented: the Switchboard Corpus of telephone conversations and the TDT2 corpus of broadcast news. Switchboard has undergone two independent transcriptions and various types of additional annotation, all carried out as separate projects that were dispersed both geographically and chronologically. The TDT2 corpus has also received a variety of annotations, but all directly created or managed by a core group. In both cases, issues arise involving the propagation of repairs, consistency of references, and the ability to integrate annotations having different formats and levels of detail. We describe a general framework whereby these issues can be addressed successfully.

A Moment of Perfect Clarity I: The Parallel Census Technique

We discuss the history and uses of the parallel census technique---an elegant tool in the study of certain computational objects having polynomially bounded census functions. A sequel will discuss advances (including Cai, Naik, and Sivakumar [CNS95] and Glasser [Gla00]), some related to the parallel census technique and some due to other approaches, in the complexity-class collapses that follow if NP has sparse hard sets under reductions weaker than (full) truth-table reductions.

Integrating E-Commerce and Data Mining: Architecture and Challenges

We show that the e-commerce domain can provide all the right ingredients for successful data mining and claim that it is a killer domain for data mining. We describe an integrated architecture, based on our expe-rience at Blue Martini Software, for supporting this integration. The architecture can dramatically reduce the pre-processing, cleaning, and data understanding effort often documented to take 80% of the time in knowledge discovery projects. We emphasize the need for data collection at the application server layer (not the web server) in order to support logging of data and metadata that is essential to the discovery process. We describe the data transformation bridges required from the transaction processing systems and customer event streams (e.g., clickstreams) to the data warehouse. We detail the mining workbench, which needs to provide multiple views of the data through reporting, data mining algorithms, visualization, and OLAP. We con-clude with a set of challenges.

Efficient cache use for stencil operations on structured discretization grids

We derive tight bounds on cache misses for evaluation of explicit stencil operators on structured grids. Our lower bound is based on the isoperimetrical property of the discrete octahedron. Our upper bound is based on good surface to volume ratio of a parallelepiped spanned by a reduced basis of the inter- ference lattice of a grid. Measurements show that our algorithm typically reduces the number of cache misses by factor of three relative to a compiler optimized code. We show that stencil calculations on grids whose interference lattice have a short vector feature abnormally high numbers of cache misses. We call such grids unfavorable and suggest to avoid these in computations by appropriate padding. By direct measurements on MIPS R10000 we show a good correlation of abnormally high cache misses and unfavorable three-dimensional grids.

Base Encryption: Dynamic algorithms, Keys, and Symbol Set

All the current modern encryption algorithms utilize fixed symbols for plaintext and cyphertext. What I mean by fixed is that there is a set and limited number of symbols to represent the characters, numbers, and punctuations. In addition, they are usually the same (the plaintext symbols have the same and equivalent counterpart in the cyphertext symbols). Almost all the encryption algorithms rely on a predefined keyspace and length for the encryption/decription keys, and it is usually fixed (number of bits). In addition, the algorithms used by the encryptions are static. There is a predefined number of operatiors, and a predefined order (loops included) of operations. The algorithm stays the same, and the plaintext and cyphertext along with the key are churned through this cypherblock.
Base Encryption does the opposite: It utilizes the novel concepts of base conversion, symbol remapping, and dynamic algorithms (dynamic operators and dynamic operations). Base Encryption solves the weakness in todays encryption schemes, namely... Fixed symbols (base) Fixed keylengths Fixed algorithms (fixed number of operations and operators)
Unique features... Immune from plain-text-attacks. Immune from brute-force-attacks. Can utilize throwaway algorithms (as opposed to throw away keys). Plug-And-Play engine (other cyphers can be augmentated to it)

Parameter-free Model of Rank Polysemantic Distribution

A model of rank polysemantic distribution with a minimal number of fitting parameters is offered. In an ideal case a parameter-free description of the dependence on the basis of one or several immediate features of the distribution is possible.

Knowledge on Treelike Spaces

This paper presents a bimodal logic for reasoning about knowledge during knowledge acquisition. One of the modalities represents (effort during) non-deterministic time and the other represents knowledge. The semantics of this logic are tree-like spaces which are a generalization of semantics used for modeling branching time and historical necessity. A finite system of axiom schemes is shown to be canonically complete for the formentioned spaces. A characterization of the satisfaction relation implies the small model property and decidability for this system.

To Preference via Entrenchment

We introduce a simple generalization of Gardenfors and Makinson's epistemic entrenchment called partial entrenchment. We show that preferential inference can be generated as the sceptical counterpart of an inference mechanism defined directly on partial entrenchment.

The Competitiveness of On-Line vis-a-vis Conventional Retailing: A Preliminary Study

Previous research has directly studied whether on-line retailing is more competitive than conventional retail markets. The evidence from books and music CDs is mixed. Here, I use an indirect approach to compare the competitiveness of on-line with conventional markets. Focusing on the retail market for books, I identify a peculiarity in the pricing of bestsellers relative to other titles. Supposing that competitive barriers are lower in on-line retailing, I analyze how the lower barriers would affect the relative pricing of bestsellers. The empirical data indicates that on-line retailing is more competitive than conventional retailing.

Mapping WordNets Using Structural Information

We present a robust approach for linking already existing lexical/semantic hierarchies. We used a constraint satisfaction algorithm (relaxation labeling) to select --among a set of candidates-- the node in a target taxonomy that bests matches each node in a source taxonomy. In particular, we use it to map the nominal part of WordNet 1.5 onto WordNet 1.6, with a very high precision and a very low remaining ambiguity.

Language identification of controlled systems: Modelling, control and anomaly detection

Formal language techniques have been used in the past to study autonomous dynamical systems. However, for controlled systems, new features are needed to distinguish between information generated by the system and input control. We show how the modelling framework for controlled dynamical systems leads naturally to a formulation in terms of context-dependent grammars. A learning algorithm is proposed for on-line generation of the grammar productions, this formulation being then used for modelling, control and anomaly detection. Practical applications are described for electromechanical drives. Grammatical interpolation techniques yield accurate results and the pattern detection capabilities of the language-based formulation makes it a promising technique for the early detection of anomalies or faulty behaviour.

Knowledge Theoretic Properties of Topological Spaces

We study the topological models of a logic of knowledge for topological reasoning, introduced by Larry Moss and Rohit Parikh. Among our results is a solution of a conjecture by the formentioned authors, finite satisfiability property and decidability for the theory of topological models.

Modal Logics for Topological Spaces

In this thesis we shall present two logical systems, MP and MP, for the purpose of reasoning about knowledge and effort. These logical systems will be interpreted in a spatial context and therefore, the abstract concepts of knowledge and effort will be defined by concrete mathematical concepts.

Ordering-based Representations of Rational Inference

Rational inference relations were introduced by Lehmann and Magidor as the ideal systems for drawing conclusions from a conditional base. However, there has been no simple characterization of these relations, other than its original representation by preferential models. In this paper, we shall characterize them with a class of total preorders of formulas by improving and extending Gardenfors and Makinson's results for expectation inference relations. A second representation is application-oriented and is obtained by considering a class of consequence operators that grade sets of defaults according to our reliance on them. The finitary fragment of this class of consequence operators has been employed by recent default logic formalisms based on maxiconsistency.

Entrenchment Relations: A Uniform Approach to Nonmonotonicity

We show that Gabbay's nonmonotonic consequence relations can be reduced to a new family of relations, called entrenchment relations. Entrenchment relations provide a direct generalization of epistemic entrenchment and expectation ordering introduced by Gardenfors and Makinson for the study of belief revision and expectation inference, respectively.

Relevance as Deduction: A Logical View of Information Retrieval

The problem of Information Retrieval is, given a set of documents D and a query q, providing an algorithm for retrieving all documents in D relevant to q. However, retrieval should depend and be updated whenever the user is able to provide as an input a preferred set of relevant documents; this process is known as em relevance feedback. Recent work in IR has been paying great attention to models which employ a logical approach; the advantage being that one can have a simple computable characterization of retrieval on the basis of a pure logical analysis of retrieval. Most of the logical models make use of probabilities or similar belief functions in order to introduce the inductive component whereby uncertainty is treated. Their general paradigm is the following: em find the nature of conditional $d\imp q$ and then define a probability on the top of it. We just reverse this point of view; first use the numerical information, frequencies or probabilities, then define your own logical consequence. More generally, we claim that retrieval is a form of deduction. We introduce a simple but powerful logical framework of relevance feedback, derived from the well founded area of nonmonotonic logic. This description can help us evaluate, describe and compare from a theoretical point of view previous approaches based on conditionals or probabilities.

Computational Geometry Column 39

The resolution of a decades-old open problem is described: polygonal chains cannot lock in the plane.

Min-Max Fine Heaps

In this paper we present a new data structure for double ended priority queue, called min-max fine heap, which combines the techniques used in fine heap and traditional min-max heap. The standard operations on this proposed structure are also presented, and their analysis indicates that the new structure outperforms the traditional one.

Managing Periodically Updated Data in Relational Databases: A Stochastic Modeling Approach

Recent trends in information management involve the periodic transcription of data onto secondary devices in a networked environment, and the proper scheduling of these transcriptions is critical for efficient data management. To assist in the scheduling process, we are interested in modeling the reduction of consistency over time between a relation and its replica, termed obsolescence of data. The modeling is based on techniques from the field of stochastic processes, and provides several stochastic models for content evolution in the base relations of a database, taking referential integrity constraints into account. These models are general enough to accommodate most of the common scenarios in databases, including batch insertions and life spans both with and without memory. As an initial "proof of concept" of the applicability of our approach, we validate the insertion portion of our model framework via experiments with real data feeds. We also discuss a set of transcription protocols which make use of the proposed stochastic model.

Boolean Satisfiability with Transitivity Constraints

We consider a variant of the Boolean satisfiability problem where a subset E of the propositional variables appearing in formula Fsat encode a symmetric, transitive, binary relation over N elements. Each of these relational variables, e[i,j], for 1 <= i < j <= N, expresses whether or not the relation holds between elements i and j. The task is to either find a satisfying assignment to Fsat that also satisfies all transitivity constraints over the relational variables (e.g., e[1,2] & e[2,3] ==> e[1,3]), or to prove that no such assignment exists. Solving this satisfiability problem is the final and most difficult step in our decision procedure for a logic of equality with uninterpreted functions. This procedure forms the core of our tool for verifying pipelined microprocessors.
To use a conventional Boolean satisfiability checker, we augment the set of clauses expressing Fsat with clauses expressing the transitivity constraints. We consider methods to reduce the number of such clauses based on the sparse structure of the relational variables.
To use Ordered Binary Decision Diagrams (OBDDs), we show that for some sets E, the OBDD representation of the transitivity constraints has exponential size for all possible variable orderings. By considering only those relational variables that occur in the OBDD representation of Fsat, our experiments show that we can readily construct an OBDD representation of the relevant transitivity constraints and thus solve the constrained satisfiability problem.

Interfacing Constraint-Based Grammars and Generation Algorithms

Constraint-based grammars can, in principle, serve as the major linguistic knowledge source for both parsing and generation. Surface generation starts from input semantics representations that may vary across grammars. For many declarative grammars, the concept of derivation implicitly built in is that of parsing. They may thus not be interpretable by a generation algorithm. We show that linguistically plausible semantic analyses can cause severe problems for semantic-head-driven approaches for generation (SHDG). We use SeReal, a variant of SHDG and the DISCO grammar of German as our source of examples. We propose a new, general approach that explicitly accounts for the interface between the grammar and the generation algorithm by adding a control-oriented layer to the linguistic knowledge base that reorganizes the semantics in a way suitable for generation.

Comparing two trainable grammatical relations finders

Grammatical relationships (GRs) form an important level of natural language processing, but different sets of GRs are useful for different purposes. Therefore, one may often only have time to obtain a small training corpus with the desired GR annotations. On such a small training corpus, we compare two systems. They use different learning techniques, but we find that this difference by itself only has a minor effect. A larger factor is that in English, a different GR length measure appears better suited for finding simple argument GRs than for finding modifier GRs. We also find that partitioning the data may help memory-based learning.

More accurate tests for the statistical significance of result differences

Statistical significance testing of differences in values of metrics like recall, precision and balanced F-score is a necessary part of empirical natural language processing. Unfortunately, we find in a set of experiments that many commonly used tests often underestimate the significance and so are less likely to detect differences that exist between different techniques. This underestimation comes from an independence assumption that is often violated. We point out some useful tests that do not make this assumption, including computationally-intensive randomization tests.

Algorithms for Analysing Firewall and Router Access Lists

Network firewalls and routers use a rule database to decide which packets will be allowed from one network onto another. By filtering packets the firewalls and routers can improve security and performance. However, as the size of the rule list increases, it becomes difficult to maintain and validate the rules, and lookup latency may increase significantly. Ordered binary decision diagrams (BDDs) - a compact method of representing and manipulating boolean expressions - are a potential method of representing the rules. This paper presents a new algorithm for representing such lists as a BDD and then shows how the resulting boolean expression can be used to analyse rule sets.

Tagger Evaluation Given Hierarchical Tag Sets

We present methods for evaluating human and automatic taggers that extend current practice in three ways. First, we show how to evaluate taggers that assign multiple tags to each test instance, even if they do not assign probabilities. Second, we show how to accommodate a common property of manually constructed ``gold standards'' that are typically used for objective evaluation, namely that there is often more than one correct answer. Third, we show how to measure performance when the set of possible tags is tree-structured in an IS-A hierarchy. To illustrate how our methods can be used to measure inter-annotator agreement, we show how to compute the kappa coefficient over hierarchical tag sets.

On the Average Similarity Degree between Solutions of Random k-SAT and Random CSPs

To study the structure of solutions for random k-SAT and random CSPs, this paper introduces the concept of average similarity degree to characterize how solutions are similar to each other. It is proved that under certain conditions, as r (i.e. the ratio of constraints to variables) increases, the limit of average similarity degree when the number of variables approaches infinity exhibits phase transitions at a threshold point, shifting from a smaller value to a larger value abruptly. For random k-SAT this phenomenon will occur when k>4 . It is further shown that this threshold point is also a singular point with respect to r in the asymptotic estimate of the second moment of the number of solutions. Finally, we discuss how this work is helpful to understand the hardness of solving random instances and a possible application of it to the design of search algorithms.

Data Mining to Measure and Improve the Success of Web Sites

For many companies, competitiveness in e-commerce requires a successful presence on the web. Web sites are used to establish the company's image, to promote and sell goods and to provide customer support. The success of a web site affects and reflects directly the success of the company in the electronic market. In this study, we propose a methodology to improve the ``success'' of web sites, based on the exploitation of navigation pattern discovery. In particular, we present a theory, in which success is modelled on the basis of the navigation behaviour of the site's users. We then exploit WUM, a navigation pattern discovery miner, to study how the success of a site is reflected in the users' behaviour. With WUM we measure the success of a site's components and obtain concrete indications of how the site should be improved. We report on our first experiments with an online catalog, the success of which we have studied. Our mining analysis has shown very promising results, on the basis of which the site is currently undergoing concrete improvements.

Flipturning polygons

A flipturn is an operation that transforms a nonconvex simple polygon into another simple polygon, by rotating a concavity 180 degrees around the midpoint of its bounding convex hull edge. Joss and Shannon proved in 1973 that a sequence of flipturns eventually transforms any simple polygon into a convex polygon. This paper describes several new results about such flipturn sequences. We show that any orthogonal polygon is convexified after at most n-5 arbitrary flipturns, or at most 5(n-4)/6 well-chosen flipturns, improving the previously best upper bound of (n-1)!/2. We also show that any simple polygon can be convexified by at most n^2-4n+1 flipturns, generalizing earlier results of Ahn et al. These bounds depend critically on how degenerate cases are handled; we carefully explore several possibilities. We describe how to maintain both a simple polygon and its convex hull in O(log^4 n) time per flipturn, using a data structure of size O(n). We show that although flipturn sequences for the same polygon can have very different lengths, the shape and position of the final convex polygon is the same for all sequences and can be computed in O(n log n) time. Finally, we demonstrate that finding the longest convexifying flipturn sequence of a simple polygon is NP-hard.

All Pairs Shortest Paths using Bridging Sets and Rectangular Matrix Multiplication

We present two new algorithms for solving the {\em All Pairs Shortest Paths} (APSP) problem for weighted directed graphs. Both algorithms use fast matrix multiplication algorithms.
The first algorithm solves the APSP problem for weighted directed graphs in which the edge weights are integers of small absolute value in $\Ot(n^{2+μ})$ time, where $μ$ satisfies the equation $ω(1,μ,1)=1+2μ$ and $ω(1,μ,1)$ is the exponent of the multiplication of an $n\times n^μ$ matrix by an $n^μ\times n$ matrix. Currently, the best available bounds on $ω(1,μ,1)$, obtained by Coppersmith, imply that $μ<0.575$. The running time of our algorithm is therefore $O(n^{2.575})$. Our algorithm improves on the $\Ot(n^{(3+ω)/2})$ time algorithm, where $ω=ω(1,1,1)<2.376$ is the usual exponent of matrix multiplication, obtained by Alon, Galil and Margalit, whose running time is only known to be $O(n^{2.688})$.
The second algorithm solves the APSP problem {\em almost} exactly for directed graphs with {\em arbitrary} non-negative real weights. The algorithm runs in $\Ot((n^ω/\eps)\log (W/\eps))$ time, where $\eps>0$ is an error parameter and W is the largest edge weight in the graph, after the edge weights are scaled so that the smallest non-zero edge weight in the graph is 1. It returns estimates of all the distances in the graph with a stretch of at most $1+\eps$. Corresponding paths can also be found efficiently.

Applying System Combination to Base Noun Phrase Identification

We use seven machine learning algorithms for one task: identifying base noun phrases. The results have been processed by different system combination methods and all of these outperformed the best individual result. We have applied the seven learners with the best combinator, a majority vote of the top five systems, to a standard data set and managed to improve the best published result for this data set.

Meta-Learning for Phonemic Annotation of Corpora

We apply rule induction, classifier combination and meta-learning (stacked classifiers) to the problem of bootstrapping high accuracy automatic annotation of corpora with pronunciation information. The task we address in this paper consists of generating phonemic representations reflecting the Flemish and Dutch pronunciations of a word on the basis of its orthographic representation (which in turn is based on the actual speech recordings). We compare several possible approaches to achieve the text-to-pronunciation mapping task: memory-based learning, transformation-based learning, rule induction, maximum entropy modeling, combination of classifiers in stacked learning, and stacking of meta-learners. We are interested both in optimal accuracy and in obtaining insight into the linguistic regularities involved. As far as accuracy is concerned, an already high accuracy level (93% for Celex and 86% for Fonilex at word level) for single classifiers is boosted significantly with additional error reductions of 31% and 38% respectively using combination of classifiers, and a further 5% using combination of meta-learners, bringing overall word level accuracy to 96% for the Dutch variant and 92% for the Flemish variant. We also show that the application of machine learning methods indeed leads to increased insight into the linguistic regularities determining the variation between the two pronunciation variants studied.

Aspects of Pattern-Matching in Data-Oriented Parsing

Data-Oriented Parsing (dop) ranks among the best parsing schemes, pairing state-of-the art parsing accuracy to the psycholinguistic insight that larger chunks of syntactic structures are relevant grammatical and probabilistic units. Parsing with the dop-model, however, seems to involve a lot of CPU cycles and a considerable amount of double work, brought on by the concept of multiple derivations, which is necessary for probabilistic processing, but which is not convincingly related to a proper linguistic backbone. It is however possible to re-interpret the dop-model as a pattern-matching model, which tries to maximize the size of the substructures that construct the parse, rather than the probability of the parse. By emphasizing this memory-based aspect of the dop-model, it is possible to do away with multiple derivations, opening up possibilities for efficient Viterbi-style optimizations, while still retaining acceptable parsing accuracy through enhanced context-sensitivity.

Temiar Reduplication in One-Level Prosodic Morphology

Temiar reduplication is a difficult piece of prosodic morphology. This paper presents the first computational analysis of Temiar reduplication, using the novel finite-state approach of One-Level Prosodic Morphology originally developed by Walther (1999b, 2000). After reviewing both the data and the basic tenets of One-level Prosodic Morphology, the analysis is laid out in some detail, using the notation of the FSA Utilities finite-state toolkit (van Noord 1997). One important discovery is that in this approach one can easily define a regular expression operator which ambiguously scans a string in the left- or rightward direction for a certain prosodic property. This yields an elegant account of base-length-dependent triggering of reduplication as found in Temiar.

Processing Self Corrections in a speech to speech system

Speech repairs occur often in spontaneous spoken dialogues. The ability to detect and correct those repairs is necessary for any spoken language system. We present a framework to detect and correct speech repairs where all relevant levels of information, i.e., acoustics, lexis, syntax and semantics can be integrated. The basic idea is to reduce the search space for repairs as soon as possible by cascading filters that involve more and more features. At first an acoustic module generates hypotheses about the existence of a repair. Second a stochastic model suggests a correction for every hypothesis. Well scored corrections are inserted as new paths in the word lattice. Finally a lattice parser decides on accepting the rep air.

Efficient probabilistic top-down and left-corner parsing

This paper examines efficient predictive broad-coverage parsing without dynamic programming. In contrast to bottom-up methods, depth-first top-down parsing produces partial parses that are fully connected trees spanning the entire left context, from which any kind of non-local dependency or partial semantic interpretation can in principle be read. We contrast two predictive parsing approaches, top-down and left-corner parsing, and find both to be viable. In addition, we find that enhancement with non-local information not only improves parser accuracy, but also substantially improves the search efficiency.

The Bisimulation Problem for equational graphs of finite out-degree

The "bisimulation problem" for equational graphs of finite out-degree is shown to be decidable. We reduce this problem to the bisimulation problem for deterministic rational (vectors of) boolean series on the alphabet of a dpda M. We then exhibit a complete formal system for deducing equivalent pairs of such vectors.

An Experimental Comparison of Naive Bayesian and Keyword-Based Anti-Spam Filtering with Personal E-mail Messages

The growing problem of unsolicited bulk e-mail, also known as "spam", has generated a need for reliable anti-spam e-mail filters. Filters of this type have so far been based mostly on manually constructed keyword patterns. An alternative approach has recently been proposed, whereby a Naive Bayesian classifier is trained automatically to detect spam messages. We test this approach on a large collection of personal e-mail messages, which we make publicly available in "encrypted" form contributing towards standard benchmarks. We introduce appropriate cost-sensitive measures, investigating at the same time the effect of attribute-set size, training-corpus size, lemmatization, and stop lists, issues that have not been explored in previous experiments. Finally, the Naive Bayesian filter is compared, in terms of performance, to a filter that uses keyword patterns, and which is part of a widely used e-mail reader.

Explaining away ambiguity: Learning verb selectional preference with Bayesian networks

This paper presents a Bayesian model for unsupervised learning of verb selectional preferences. For each verb the model creates a Bayesian network whose architecture is determined by the lexical hierarchy of Wordnet and whose parameters are estimated from a list of verb-object pairs found from a corpus. ``Explaining away'', a well-known property of Bayesian networks, helps the model deal in a natural fashion with word sense ambiguity in the training data. On a word sense disambiguation test our model performed better than other state of the art systems for unsupervised learning of selectional preferences. Computational complexity problems, ways of improving this approach and methods for implementing ``explaining away'' in other graphical frameworks are discussed.

Compact non-left-recursive grammars using the selective left-corner transform and factoring

The left-corner transform removes left-recursion from (probabilistic) context-free grammars and unification grammars, permitting simple top-down parsing techniques to be used. Unfortunately the grammars produced by the standard left-corner transform are usually much larger than the original. The selective left-corner transform described in this paper produces a transformed grammar which simulates left-corner recognition of a user-specified set of the original productions, and top-down recognition of the others. Combined with two factorizations, it produces non-left-recursive grammars that are not much larger than the original.

A Learning Approach to Shallow Parsing

A SNoW based learning approach to shallow parsing tasks is presented and studied experimentally. The approach learns to identify syntactic patterns by combining simple predictors to produce a coherent inference. Two instantiations of this approach are studied and experimental results for Noun-Phrases (NP) and Subject-Verb (SV) phrases that compare favorably with the best published results are presented. In doing that, we compare two ways of modeling the problem of learning to recognize patterns and suggest that shallow parsing patterns are better learned using open/close predictors than using inside/outside predictors.

Selectional Restrictions in HPSG

Selectional restrictions are semantic sortal constraints imposed on the participants of linguistic constructions to capture contextually-dependent constraints on interpretation. Despite their limitations, selectional restrictions have proven very useful in natural language applications, where they have been used frequently in word sense disambiguation, syntactic disambiguation, and anaphora resolution. Given their practical value, we explore two methods to incorporate selectional restrictions in the HPSG theory, assuming that the reader is familiar with HPSG. The first method employs HPSG's Background feature and a constraint-satisfaction component pipe-lined after the parser. The second method uses subsorts of referential indices, and blocks readings that violate selectional restrictions during parsing. While theoretically less satisfactory, we have found the second method particularly useful in the development of practical systems.

Estimation of Stochastic Attribute-Value Grammars using an Informative Sample

We argue that some of the computational complexity associated with estimation of stochastic attribute-value grammars can be reduced by training upon an informative subset of the full training set. Results using the parsed Wall Street Journal corpus show that in some circumstances, it is possible to obtain better estimation results using an informative sample than when training upon all the available material. Further experimentation demonstrates that with unlexicalised models, a Gaussian Prior can reduce overfitting. However, when models are lexicalised and contain overlapping features, overfitting does not seem to be a problem, and a Gaussian Prior makes minimal difference to performance. Our approach is applicable for situations when there are an infeasibly large number of parses in the training set, or else for when recovery of these parses from a packed representation is itself computationally expensive.

Phutball Endgames are Hard

We show that, in John Conway's board game Phutball (or Philosopher's Football), it is NP-complete to determine whether the current player has a move that immediately wins the game. In contrast, the similar problems of determining whether there is an immediately winning move in checkers, or a move that kings a man, are both solvable in polynomial time.

Noun-phrase co-occurrence statistics for semi-automatic semantic lexicon construction

Generating semantic lexicons semi-automatically could be a great time saver, relative to creating them by hand. In this paper, we present an algorithm for extracting potential entries for a category from an on-line corpus, based upon a small set of exemplars. Our algorithm finds more correct terms and fewer incorrect ones than previous work in this area. Additionally, the entries that are generated potentially provide broader coverage of the category than would occur to an individual coding them by hand. Our algorithm finds many terms not included within Wordnet (many more than previous algorithms), and could be viewed as an ``enhancer'' of existing broad-coverage resources.

Measuring efficiency in high-accuracy, broad-coverage statistical parsing

Very little attention has been paid to the comparison of efficiency between high accuracy statistical parsers. This paper proposes one machine-independent metric that is general enough to allow comparisons across very different parsing architectures. This metric, which we call ``events considered'', measures the number of ``events'', however they are defined for a particular parser, for which a probability must be calculated, in order to find the parse. It is applicable to single-pass or multi-stage parsers. We discuss the advantages of the metric, and demonstrate its usefulness by using it to compare two parsers which differ in several fundamental ways.

Estimators for Stochastic ``Unification-Based'' Grammars

Log-linear models provide a statistically sound framework for Stochastic ``Unification-Based'' Grammars (SUBGs) and stochastic versions of other kinds of grammars. We describe two computationally-tractable ways of estimating the parameters of such grammars from a training corpus of syntactic analyses, and apply these to estimate a stochastic version of Lexical-Functional Grammar.

Exploiting auxiliary distributions in stochastic unification-based grammars

This paper describes a method for estimating conditional probability distributions over the parses of ``unification-based'' grammars which can utilize auxiliary distributions that are estimated by other means. We show how this can be used to incorporate information about lexical selectional preferences gathered from other sources into Stochastic ``Unification-based'' Grammars (SUBGs). While we apply this estimator to a Stochastic Lexical-Functional Grammar, the method is general, and should be applicable to stochastic versions of HPSGs, categorial grammars and transformational grammars.

Metonymy Interpretation Using X NO Y Examples

We developed on example-based method of metonymy interpretation. One advantages of this method is that a hand-built database of metonymy is not necessary because it instead uses examples in the form ``Noun X no Noun Y (Noun Y of Noun X).'' Another advantage is that we will be able to interpret newly-coined metonymic sentences by using a new corpus. We experimented with metonymy interpretation and obtained a precision rate of 66% when using this method.

Bunsetsu Identification Using Category-Exclusive Rules

This paper describes two new bunsetsu identification methods using supervised learning. Since Japanese syntactic analysis is usually done after bunsetsu identification, bunsetsu identification is important for analyzing Japanese sentences. In experiments comparing the four previously available machine-learning methods (decision tree, maximum-entropy method, example-based approach and decision list) and two new methods using category-exclusive rules, the new method using the category-exclusive rules with the highest similarity performed best.

Temporal Expressions in Japanese-to-English Machine Translation

This paper describes in outline a method for translating Japanese temporal expressions into English. We argue that temporal expressions form a special subset of language that is best handled as a special module in machine translation. The paper deals with problems of lexical idiosyncrasy as well as the choice of articles and prepositions within temporal expressions. In addition temporal expressions are considered as parts of larger structures, and the question of whether to translate them as noun phrases or adverbials is addressed.

Lexicalized Stochastic Modeling of Constraint-Based Grammars using Log-Linear Measures and EM Training

We present a new approach to stochastic modeling of constraint-based grammars that is based on log-linear models and uses EM for estimation from unannotated data. The techniques are applied to an LFG grammar for German. Evaluation on an exact match task yields 86% precision for an ambiguity rate of 5.4, and 90% precision on a subcat frame match for an ambiguity rate of 25. Experimental comparison to training from a parsebank shows a 10% gain from EM training. Also, a new class-based grammar lexicalization is presented, showing a 10% gain over unlexicalized models.

Using a Probabilistic Class-Based Lexicon for Lexical Ambiguity Resolution

This paper presents the use of probabilistic class-based lexica for disambiguation in target-word selection. Our method employs minimal but precise contextual information for disambiguation. That is, only information provided by the target-verb, enriched by the condensed information of a probabilistic class-based lexicon, is used. Induction of classes and fine-tuning to verbal arguments is done in an unsupervised manner by EM-based clustering techniques. The method shows promising results in an evaluation on real-world translations.

Probabilistic Constraint Logic Programming. Formal Foundations of Quantitative and Statistical Inference in Constraint-Based Natural Language Processing

In this thesis, we present two approaches to a rigorous mathematical and algorithmic foundation of quantitative and statistical inference in constraint-based natural language processing. The first approach, called quantitative constraint logic programming, is conceptualized in a clear logical framework, and presents a sound and complete system of quantitative inference for definite clauses annotated with subjective weights. This approach combines a rigorous formal semantics for quantitative inference based on subjective weights with efficient weight-based pruning for constraint-based systems. The second approach, called probabilistic constraint logic programming, introduces a log-linear probability distribution on the proof trees of a constraint logic program and an algorithm for statistical inference of the parameters and properties of such probability models from incomplete, i.e., unparsed data. The possibility of defining arbitrary properties of proof trees as properties of the log-linear probability model and efficiently estimating appropriate parameter values for them permits the probabilistic modeling of arbitrary context-dependencies in constraint logic programs. The usefulness of these ideas is evaluated empirically in a small-scale experiment on finding the correct parses of a constraint-based grammar. In addition, we address the problem of computational intractability of the calculation of expectations in the inference task and present various techniques to approximately solve this task. Moreover, we present an approximate heuristic technique for searching for the most probable analysis in probabilistic constraint logic programs.

Complexity analysis for algorithmically simple strings

Given a reference computer, Kolmogorov complexity is a well defined function on all binary strings. In the standard approach, however, only the asymptotic properties of such functions are considered because they do not depend on the reference computer. We argue that this approach can be more useful if it is refined to include an important practical case of simple binary strings. Kolmogorov complexity calculus may be developed for this case if we restrict the class of available reference computers. The interesting problem is to define a class of computers which is restricted in a {\it natural} way modeling the real-life situation where only a limited class of computers is physically available to us. We give an example of what such a natural restriction might look like mathematically, and show that under such restrictions some error terms, even logarithmic in complexity, can disappear from the standard complexity calculus.
Keywords: Kolmogorov complexity; Algorithmic information theory.

Succinct quantum proofs for properties of finite groups

In this paper we consider a quantum computational variant of nondeterminism based on the notion of a quantum proof, which is a quantum state that plays a role similar to a certificate in an NP-type proof. Specifically, we consider quantum proofs for properties of black-box groups, which are finite groups whose elements are encoded as strings of a given length and whose group operations are performed by a group oracle. We prove that for an arbitrary group oracle there exist succinct (polynomial-length) quantum proofs for the Group Non-Membership problem that can be checked with small error in polynomial time on a quantum computer. Classically this is impossible--it is proved that there exists a group oracle relative to which this problem does not have succinct proofs that can be checked classically with bounded error in polynomial time (i.e., the problem is not in MA relative to the group oracle constructed). By considering a certain subproblem of the Group Non-Membership problem we obtain a simple proof that there exists an oracle relative to which BQP is not contained in MA. Finally, we show that quantum proofs for non-membership and classical proofs for various other group properties can be combined to yield succinct quantum proofs for other group properties not having succinct proofs in the classical setting, such as verifying that a number divides the order of a group and verifying that a group is not a simple group.

Automatic Extraction of Subcategorization Frames for Czech

We present some novel machine learning techniques for the identification of subcategorization information for verbs in Czech. We compare three different statistical techniques applied to this problem. We show how the learning algorithm can be used to discover previously unknown subcategorization frames from the Czech Prague Dependency Treebank. The algorithm can then be used to label dependents of a verb in the Czech treebank as either arguments or adjuncts. Using our techniques, we ar able to achieve 88% precision on unseen parsed text.

A usage based analysis of CoRR

Based on an empirical analysis of author usage of CoRR, and of its predecessor in the Los Alamos eprint archives, it is shown that CoRR has not yet been able to match the early growth of the Los Alamos physics archives. Some of the reasons are implicit in Halpern's paper, and we explore them further here. In particular we refer to the need to promote CoRR more effectively for its intended community - computer scientists in universities, industrial research labs and in government. We take up some points of detail on this new world of open archiving concerning central versus distributed self-archiving, publication, the restructuring of the journal publishers' niche, peer review and copyright.

Improved Algorithms for 3-Coloring, 3-Edge-Coloring, and Constraint Satisfaction

We consider worst case time bounds for NP-complete problems including 3-SAT, 3-coloring, 3-edge-coloring, and 3-list-coloring. Our algorithms are based on a constraint satisfaction (CSP) formulation of these problems; 3-SAT is equivalent to (2,3)-CSP while the other problems above are special cases of (3,2)-CSP. We give a fast algorithm for (3,2)-CSP and use it to improve the time bounds for solving the other problems listed above. Our techniques involve a mixture of Davis-Putnam-style backtracking with more sophisticated matching and network flow based ideas.

Robust Classification for Imprecise Environments

In real-world environments it usually is difficult to specify target operating conditions precisely, for example, target misclassification costs. This uncertainty makes building robust classification systems problematic. We show that it is possible to build a hybrid classifier that will perform at least as well as the best available classifier for any target conditions. In some cases, the performance of the hybrid actually can surpass that of the best known classifier. This robust performance extends across a wide variety of comparison frameworks, including the optimization of metrics such as accuracy, expected cost, lift, precision, recall, and workforce utilization. The hybrid also is efficient to build, to store, and to update. The hybrid is based on a method for the comparison of classifier performance that is robust to imprecise class distributions and misclassification costs. The ROC convex hull (ROCCH) method combines techniques from ROC analysis, decision analysis and computational geometry, and adapts them to the particulars of analyzing learned classifiers. The method is efficient and incremental, minimizes the management of classifier performance data, and allows for clear visual comparisons and sensitivity analyses. Finally, we point to empirical evidence that a robust hybrid classifier indeed is needed for many real-world problems.

Introduction to the CoNLL-2000 Shared Task: Chunking

We describe the CoNLL-2000 shared task: dividing text into syntactically related non-overlapping groups of words, so-called text chunking. We give background information on the data sets, present a general overview of the systems that have taken part in the shared task and briefly discuss their performance.

Learning to Filter Spam E-Mail: A Comparison of a Naive Bayesian and a Memory-Based Approach

We investigate the performance of two machine learning algorithms in the context of anti-spam filtering. The increasing volume of unsolicited bulk e-mail (spam) has generated a need for reliable anti-spam filters. Filters of this type have so far been based mostly on keyword patterns that are constructed by hand and perform poorly. The Naive Bayesian classifier has recently been suggested as an effective method to construct automatically anti-spam filters with superior performance. We investigate thoroughly the performance of the Naive Bayesian filter on a publicly available corpus, contributing towards standard benchmarks. At the same time, we compare the performance of the Naive Bayesian filter to an alternative memory-based learning approach, after introducing suitable cost-sensitive evaluation measures. Both methods achieve very accurate spam filtering, outperforming clearly the keyword-based filter of a widely used e-mail reader.

Computing Crossing Numbers in Quadratic Time

We show that for every fixed non-negative integer k there is a quadratic time algorithm that decides whether a given graph has crossing number at most k and, if this is the case, computes a drawing of the graph in the plane with at most k crossings.

Modeling Ambiguity in a Multi-Agent System

This paper investigates the formal pragmatics of ambiguous expressions by modeling ambiguity in a multi-agent system. Such a framework allows us to give a more refined notion of the kind of information that is conveyed by ambiguous expressions. We analyze how ambiguity affects the knowledge of the dialog participants and, especially, what they know about each other after an ambiguous sentence has been uttered. The agents communicate with each other by means of a TELL-function, whose application is constrained by an implementation of some of Grice's maxims. The information states of the multi-agent system itself are represented as a Kripke structures and TELL is an update function on those structures. This framework enables us to distinguish between the information conveyed by ambiguous sentences vs. the information conveyed by disjunctions, and between semantic ambiguity vs. perceived ambiguity.

Pattern Matching for sets of segments

In this paper we present algorithms for a number of problems in geometric pattern matching where the input consist of a collections of segments in the plane. Our work consists of two main parts. In the first, we address problems and measures that relate to collections of orthogonal line segments in the plane. Such collections arise naturally from problems in mapping buildings and robot exploration.
We propose a new measure of segment similarity called a \emph{coverage measure}, and present efficient algorithms for maximising this measure between sets of axis-parallel segments under translations. Our algorithms run in time $O(n^3\polylog n)$ in the general case, and run in time $O(n^2\polylog n)$ for the case when all segments are horizontal. In addition, we show that when restricted to translations that are only vertical, the Hausdorff distance between two sets of horizontal segments can be computed in time roughly $O(n^{3/2}{\sl polylog}n)$. These algorithms form significant improvements over the general algorithm of Chew et al. that takes time $O(n^4 \log^2 n)$. In the second part of this paper we address the problem of matching polygonal chains. We study the well known \Frd, and present the first algorithm for computing the \Frd under general translations. Our methods also yield algorithms for computing a generalization of the \Fr distance, and we also present a simple approximation algorithm for the \Frd that runs in time $O(n^2\polylog n)$.

Combining Linguistic and Spatial Information for Document Analysis

We present a framework to analyze color documents of complex layout. In addition, no assumption is made on the layout. Our framework combines in a content-driven bottom-up approach two different sources of information: textual and spatial. To analyze the text, shallow natural language processing tools, such as taggers and partial parsers, are used. To infer relations of the logical layout we resort to a qualitative spatial calculus closely related to Allen's calculus. We evaluate the system against documents from a color journal and present the results of extracting the reading order from the journal's pages. In this case, our analysis is successful as it extracts the intended reading order from the document.

A Tableaux Calculus for Ambiguous Quantification

Coping with ambiguity has recently received a lot of attention in natural language processing. Most work focuses on the semantic representation of ambiguous expressions. In this paper we complement this work in two ways. First, we provide an entailment relation for a language with ambiguous expressions. Second, we give a sound and complete tableaux calculus for reasoning with statements involving ambiguous quantification. The calculus interleaves partial disambiguation steps with steps in a traditional deductive process, so as to minimize and postpone branching in the proof process, and thereby increases its efficiency.

Contextual Inference in Computational Semantics

In this paper, an application of automated theorem proving techniques to computational semantics is considered. In order to compute the presuppositions of a natural language discourse, several inference tasks arise. Instead of treating these inferences independently of each other, we show how integrating techniques from formal approaches to context into deduction can help to compute presuppositions more efficiently. Contexts are represented as Discourse Representation Structures and the way they are nested is made explicit. In addition, a tableau calculus is present which keeps track of contextual information, and thereby allows to avoid carrying out redundant inference steps as it happens in approaches that neglect explicit nesting of contexts.

A Tableau Calculus for Pronoun Resolution

We present a tableau calculus for reasoning in fragments of natural language. We focus on the problem of pronoun resolution and the way in which it complicates automated theorem proving for natural language processing. A method for explicitly manipulating contextual information during deduction is proposed, where pronouns are resolved against this context during deduction. As a result, pronoun resolution and deduction can be interleaved in such a way that pronouns are only resolved if this is licensed by a deduction rule; this helps us to avoid the combinatorial complexity of total pronoun disambiguation.

A Resolution Calculus for Dynamic Semantics

This paper applies resolution theorem proving to natural language semantics. The aim is to circumvent the computational complexity triggered by natural language ambiguities like pronoun binding, by interleaving pronoun binding with resolution deduction. Therefore disambiguation is only applied to expression that actually occur during derivations.

Computing Presuppositions by Contextual Reasoning

This paper describes how automated deduction methods for natural language processing can be applied more efficiently by encoding context in a more elaborate way. Our work is based on formal approaches to context, and we provide a tableau calculus for contextual reasoning. This is explained by considering an example from the problem area of presupposition projection.

Cluster Computing: A High-Performance Contender

When you first heard people speak of Piles of PCs, the first thing that came to mind may have been a cluttered computer room with processors, monitors, and snarls of cables all around. Collections of computers have undoubtedly become more sophisticated than in the early days of shared drives and modem connections. No matter what you call them, Clusters of Workstations (COW), Networks of Workstations (NOW), Workstation Clusters (WCs), Clusters of PCs (CoPs), clusters of computers are now filling the processing niche once occupied by more powerful stand-alone machines. This article discusses the need for cluster computing technology, Technologies, Components, and Applications, Supercluster Systems and Issues, The Need for a New Task Force, and Cluster Computing Educational Resources.

A Comparison between Supervised Learning Algorithms for Word Sense Disambiguation

This paper describes a set of comparative experiments, including cross-corpus evaluation, between five alternative algorithms for supervised Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD), namely Naive Bayes, Exemplar-based learning, SNoW, Decision Lists, and Boosting. Two main conclusions can be drawn: 1) The LazyBoosting algorithm outperforms the other four state-of-the-art algorithms in terms of accuracy and ability to tune to new domains; 2) The domain dependence of WSD systems seems very strong and suggests that some kind of adaptation or tuning is required for cross-corpus application.

Computing the Depth of a Flat

We give algorithms for computing the regression depth of a k-flat for a set of n points in R^d. The running time is O(n^(d-2) + n log n) when 0 < k < d-1, faster than the best time bound for hyperplane regression or for data depth.

Parsing with the Shortest Derivation

Common wisdom has it that the bias of stochastic grammars in favor of shorter derivations of a sentence is harmful and should be redressed. We show that the common wisdom is wrong for stochastic grammars that use elementary trees instead of context-free rules, such as Stochastic Tree-Substitution Grammars used by Data-Oriented Parsing models. For such grammars a non-probabilistic metric based on the shortest derivation outperforms a probabilistic metric on the ATIS and OVIS corpora, while it obtains very competitive results on the Wall Street Journal corpus. This paper also contains the first published experiments with DOP on the Wall Street Journal.

An improved parser for data-oriented lexical-functional analysis

We present an LFG-DOP parser which uses fragments from LFG-annotated sentences to parse new sentences. Experiments with the Verbmobil and Homecentre corpora show that (1) Viterbi n best search performs about 100 times faster than Monte Carlo search while both achieve the same accuracy; (2) the DOP hypothesis which states that parse accuracy increases with increasing fragment size is confirmed for LFG-DOP; (3) LFG-DOP's relative frequency estimator performs worse than a discounted frequency estimator; and (4) LFG-DOP significantly outperforms Tree-DOP is evaluated on tree structures only.

A Classification Approach to Word Prediction

The eventual goal of a language model is to accurately predict the value of a missing word given its context. We present an approach to word prediction that is based on learning a representation for each word as a function of words and linguistics predicates in its context. This approach raises a few new questions that we address. First, in order to learn good word representations it is necessary to use an expressive representation of the context. We present a way that uses external knowledge to generate expressive context representations, along with a learning method capable of handling the large number of features generated this way that can, potentially, contribute to each prediction. Second, since the number of words ``competing'' for each prediction is large, there is a need to ``focus the attention'' on a smaller subset of these. We exhibit the contribution of a ``focus of attention'' mechanism to the performance of the word predictor. Finally, we describe a large scale experimental study in which the approach presented is shown to yield significant improvements in word prediction tasks.

The Concurrent Language Aldwych

Aldwych is proposed as the foundation of a general purpose language for parallel applications. It works on a rule-based principle, and has aspects variously of concurrent functional, logic and object-oriented languages, yet it forms an integrated whole. It is intended to be applicable both for small-scale parallel programming, and for large-scale open systems.

From Syntactic Theories to Interpreters: A Specification Language and Its Compilation

Recent years have seen an increasing need of high-level specification languages and tools generating code from specifications. In this paper, we introduce a specification language, {\splname}, which is tailored to the writing of syntactic theories of language semantics. More specifically, the language supports specifying primitive notions such as dynamic constraints, contexts, axioms, and inference rules. We also introduce a system which generates interpreters from {\splname} specifications. A prototype system is implemented and has been tested on a number of examples, including a syntactic theory for Verilog.

Design of an Electro-Hydraulic System Using Neuro-Fuzzy Techniques

Increasing demands in performance and quality make drive systems fundamental parts in the progressive automation of industrial processes. Their conventional models become inappropriate and have limited scope if one requires a precise and fast performance. So, it is important to incorporate learning capabilities into drive systems in such a way that they improve their accuracy in realtime, becoming more autonomous agents with some degree of intelligence. To investigate this challenge, this chapter presents the development of a learning control system that uses neuro-fuzzy techniques in the design of a tracking controller to an experimental electro-hydraulic actuator. We begin the chapter by presenting the neuro-fuzzy modeling process of the actuator. This part surveys the learning algorithm, describes the laboratorial system, and presents the modeling steps as the choice of actuator representative variables, the acquisition of training and testing data sets, and the acquisition of the neuro-fuzzy inverse-model of the actuator. In the second part of the chapter, we use the extracted neuro-fuzzy model and its learning capabilities to design the actuator position controller based on the feedback-error-learning technique. Through a set of experimental results, we show the generalization properties of the controller, its learning capability in actualizing in realtime the initial neuro-fuzzy inverse-model, and its compensation action improving the electro-hydraulics tracking performance.

Noise Effects in Fuzzy Modelling Systems

Noise is source of ambiguity for fuzzy systems. Although being an important aspect, the effects of noise in fuzzy modeling have been little investigated. This paper presents a set of tests using three well-known fuzzy modeling algorithms. These evaluate perturbations in the extracted rule-bases caused by noise polluting the learning data, and the corresponding deformations in each learned functional relation. We present results to show: 1) how these fuzzy modeling systems deal with noise; 2) how the established fuzzy model structure influences noise sensitivity of each algorithm; and 3) whose characteristics of the learning algorithms are relevant to noise attenuation.

A Fuzzy Relational Identification Algorithm and Its Application to Predict The Behaviour of a Motor Drive System

Fuzzy relational identification builds a relational model describing systems behaviour by a nonlinear mapping between its variables. In this paper, we propose a new fuzzy relational algorithm based on simplified max-min relational equation. The algorithm presents an adaptation method applied to gravity-center of each fuzzy set based on error integral value between measured and predicted system output, and uses the concept of time-variant universe of discourses. The identification algorithm also includes a method to attenuate noise influence in extracted system relational model using a fuzzy filtering mechanism. The algorithm is applied to one-step forward prediction of a simulated and experimental motor drive system. The identified model has its input-output variables (stator-reference current and motor speed signal) treated as fuzzy sets, whereas the relations existing between them are described by means of a matrix R defining the relational model extracted by the algorithm. The results show the good potentialities of the algorithm in predict the behaviour of the system and attenuate through the fuzzy filtering method possible noise distortions in the relational model.

Low Ambiguity in Strong, Total, Associative, One-Way Functions

Rabi and Sherman present a cryptographic paradigm based on associative, one-way functions that are strong (i.e., hard to invert even if one of their arguments is given) and total. Hemaspaandra and Rothe proved that such powerful one-way functions exist exactly if (standard) one-way functions exist, thus showing that the associative one-way function approach is as plausible as previous approaches. In the present paper, we study the degree of ambiguity of one-way functions. Rabiand Sherman showed that no associative one-way function (over a universe having at least two elements) can be unambiguous (i.e., one-to-one). Nonetheless, we prove that if standard, unambiguous, one-way functions exist, then there exist strong, total, associative, one-way functions that are $\mathcal{O}(n)$-to-one. This puts a reasonable upper bound on the ambiguity.

Applications of Data Mining to Electronic Commerce

Electronic commerce is emerging as the killer domain for data mining technology.
The following are five desiderata for success. Seldom are they they all present in one data mining application.
1. Data with rich descriptions. For example, wide customer records with many potentially useful fields allow data mining algorithms to search beyond obvious correlations.
2. A large volume of data. The large model spaces corresponding to rich data demand many training instances to build reliable models.
3. Controlled and reliable data collection. Manual data entry and integration from legacy systems both are notoriously problematic; fully automated collection is considerably better.
4. The ability to evaluate results. Substantial, demonstrable return on investment can be very convincing.
5. Ease of integration with existing processes. Even if pilot studies show potential benefit, deploying automated solutions to previously manual processes is rife with pitfalls. Building a system to take advantage of the mined knowledge can be a substantial undertaking. Furthermore, one often must deal with social and political issues involved in the automation of a previously manual business process.

Towards a Theory of Cache-Efficient Algorithms

We describe a model that enables us to analyze the running time of an algorithm in a computer with a memory hierarchy with limited associativity, in terms of various cache parameters. Our model, an extension of Aggarwal and Vitter's I/O model, enables us to establish useful relationships between the cache complexity and the I/O complexity of computations. As a corollary, we obtain cache-optimal algorithms for some fundamental problems like sorting, FFT, and an important subclass of permutations in the single-level cache model. We also show that ignoring associativity concerns could lead to inferior performance, by analyzing the average-case cache behavior of mergesort. We further extend our model to multiple levels of cache with limited associativity and present optimal algorithms for matrix transpose and sorting. Our techniques may be used for systematic exploitation of the memory hierarchy starting from the algorithm design stage, and dealing with the hitherto unresolved problem of limited associativity.

The Light Lexicographic path Ordering

We introduce syntactic restrictions of the lexicographic path ordering to obtain the Light Lexicographic Path Ordering. We show that the light lexicographic path ordering leads to a characterisation of the functions computable in space bounded by a polynomial in the size of the inputs.

An Approach to the Implementation of Overlapping Rules in Standard ML

We describe an approach to programming rule-based systems in Standard ML, with a focus on so-called overlapping rules, that is rules that can still be active when other rules are fired. Such rules are useful when implementing rule-based reactive systems, and to that effect we show a simple implementation of Loyall's Active Behavior Trees, used to control goal-directed agents in the Oz virtual environment. We discuss an implementation of our framework using a reactive library geared towards implementing those kind of systems.

A Public-key based Information Management Model for Mobile Agents

Mobile code based computing requires development of protection schemes that allow digital signature and encryption of data collected by the agents in untrusted hosts. These algorithms could not rely on carrying encryption keys if these keys could be stolen or used to counterfeit data by hostile hosts and agents. As a consequence, both information and keys must be protected in a way that only authorized hosts, that is the host that provides information and the server that has sent the mobile agent, could modify (by changing or removing) retrieved data. The data management model proposed in this work allows the information collected by the agents to be protected against handling by other hosts in the information network. It has been done by using standard public-key cryptography modified to support protection of data in distributed environments without requiring an interactive protocol with the host that has dropped the agent. Their significance stands on the fact that it is the first model that supports a full-featured protection of mobile agents allowing remote hosts to change its own information if required before agent returns to its originating server.

On a cepstrum-based speech detector robust to white noise

We study effects of additive white noise on the cepstral representation of speech signals. Distribution of each individual cepstrum coefficient of speech is shown to depend strongly on noise and to overlap significantly with the cepstrum distribution of noise. Based on these studies, we suggest a scalar quantity, V, equal to the sum of weighted cepstral coefficients, which is able to classify frames containing speech against noise-like frames. The distributions of V for speech and noise frames are reasonably well separated above SNR = 5 dB, demonstrating the feasibility of robust speech detector based on V.

On Exponential-Time Completeness of the Circularity Problem for Attribute Grammars

Attribute grammars (AGs) are a formal technique for defining semantics of programming languages. Existing complexity proofs on the circularity problem of AGs are based on automata theory, such as writing pushdown acceptor and alternating Turing machines. They reduced the acceptance problems of above automata, which are exponential-time (EXPTIME) complete, to the AG circularity problem. These proofs thus show that the circularity problem is EXPTIME-hard, at least as hard as the most difficult problems in EXPTIME. However, none has given a proof for the EXPTIME-completeness of the problem. This paper first presents an alternating Turing machine for the circularity problem. The alternating Turing machine requires polynomial space. Thus, the circularity problem is in EXPTIME and is then EXPTIME-complete.

Towards rule-based visual programming of generic visual systems

This paper illustrates how the diagram programming language DiaPlan can be used to program visual systems. DiaPlan is a visual rule-based language that is founded on the computational model of graph transformation. The language supports object-oriented programming since its graphs are hierarchically structured. Typing allows the shape of these graphs to be specified recursively in order to increase program security. Thanks to its genericity, DiaPlan allows to implement systems that represent and manipulate data in arbitrary diagram notations. The environment for the language exploits the diagram editor generator DiaGen for providing genericity, and for implementing its user interface and type checker.

Internet Packet Filter Management and Rectangle Geometry

We consider rule sets for internet packet routing and filtering, where each rule consists of a range of source addresses, a range of destination addresses, a priority, and an action. A given packet should be handled by the action from the maximum priority rule that matches its source and destination. We describe new data structures for quickly finding the rule matching an incoming packet, in near-linear space, and a new algorithm for determining whether a rule set contains any conflicts, in time O(n^{3/2}).

The Random Oracle Methodology, Revisited

We take a critical look at the relationship between the security of cryptographic schemes in the Random Oracle Model, and the security of the schemes that result from implementing the random oracle by so called "cryptographic hash functions". The main result of this paper is a negative one: There exist signature and encryption schemes that are secure in the Random Oracle Model, but for which any implementation of the random oracle results in insecure schemes.
In the process of devising the above schemes, we consider possible definitions for the notion of a "good implementation" of a random oracle, pointing out limitations and challenges.

Using existing systems to supplement small amounts of annotated grammatical relations training data

Grammatical relationships (GRs) form an important level of natural language processing, but different sets of GRs are useful for different purposes. Therefore, one may often only have time to obtain a small training corpus with the desired GR annotations. To boost the performance from using such a small training corpus on a transformation rule learner, we use existing systems that find related types of annotations.

Towards Understanding the Predictability of Stock Markets from the Perspective of Computational Complexity

This paper initiates a study into the century-old issue of market predictability from the perspective of computational complexity. We develop a simple agent-based model for a stock market where the agents are traders equipped with simple trading strategies, and their trades together determine the stock prices. Computer simulations show that a basic case of this model is already capable of generating price graphs which are visually similar to the recent price movements of high tech stocks. In the general model, we prove that if there are a large number of traders but they employ a relatively small number of strategies, then there is a polynomial-time algorithm for predicting future price movements with high accuracy. On the other hand, if the number of strategies is large, market prediction becomes complete in two new computational complexity classes CPP and BCPP, which are between P^NP[O(log n)] and PP. These computational completeness results open up a novel possibility that the price graph of an actual stock could be sufficiently deterministic for various prediction goals but appear random to all polynomial-time prediction algorithms.

Noise-Tolerant Learning, the Parity Problem, and the Statistical Query Model

We describe a slightly sub-exponential time algorithm for learning parity functions in the presence of random classification noise. This results in a polynomial-time algorithm for the case of parity functions that depend on only the first O(log n log log n) bits of input. This is the first known instance of an efficient noise-tolerant algorithm for a concept class that is provably not learnable in the Statistical Query model of Kearns. Thus, we demonstrate that the set of problems learnable in the statistical query model is a strict subset of those problems learnable in the presence of noise in the PAC model.
In coding-theory terms, what we give is a poly(n)-time algorithm for decoding linear k by n codes in the presence of random noise for the case of k = c log n loglog n for some c > 0. (The case of k = O(log n) is trivial since one can just individually check each of the 2^k possible messages and choose the one that yields the closest codeword.)
A natural extension of the statistical query model is to allow queries about statistical properties that involve t-tuples of examples (as opposed to single examples). The second result of this paper is to show that any class of functions learnable (strongly or weakly) with t-wise queries for t = O(log n) is also weakly learnable with standard unary queries. Hence this natural extension to the statistical query model does not increase the set of weakly learnable functions.

Oracle Complexity and Nontransitivity in Pattern Recognition

Different mathematical models of recognition processes are known. In the present paper we consider a pattern recognition algorithm as an oracle computation on a Turing machine. Such point of view seems to be useful in pattern recognition as well as in recursion theory. Use of recursion theory in pattern recognition shows connection between a recognition algorithm comparison problem and complexity problems of oracle computation. That is because in many cases we can take into account only the number of sign computations or in other words volume of oracle information needed. Therefore, the problem of recognition algorithm preference can be formulated as a complexity optimization problem of oracle computation. Furthermore, introducing a certain "natural" preference relation on a set of recognizing algorithms, we discover it to be nontransitive. This relates to the well known nontransitivity paradox in probability theory.
Keywords: Pattern Recognition, Recursion Theory, Nontransitivity, Preference Relation

Exploring automatic word sense disambiguation with decision lists and the Web

The most effective paradigm for word sense disambiguation, supervised learning, seems to be stuck because of the knowledge acquisition bottleneck. In this paper we take an in-depth study of the performance of decision lists on two publicly available corpora and an additional corpus automatically acquired from the Web, using the fine-grained highly polysemous senses in WordNet. Decision lists are shown a versatile state-of-the-art technique. The experiments reveal, among other facts, that SemCor can be an acceptable (0.7 precision for polysemous words) starting point for an all-words system. The results on the DSO corpus show that for some highly polysemous words 0.7 precision seems to be the current state-of-the-art limit. On the other hand, independently constructed hand-tagged corpora are not mutually useful, and a corpus automatically acquired from the Web is shown to fail.

Extraction of semantic relations from a Basque monolingual dictionary using Constraint Grammar

This paper deals with the exploitation of dictionaries for the semi-automatic construction of lexicons and lexical knowledge bases. The final goal of our research is to enrich the Basque Lexical Database with semantic information such as senses, definitions, semantic relations, etc., extracted from a Basque monolingual dictionary. The work here presented focuses on the extraction of the semantic relations that best characterise the headword, that is, those of synonymy, antonymy, hypernymy, and other relations marked by specific relators and derivation. All nominal, verbal and adjectival entries were treated. Basque uses morphological inflection to mark case, and therefore semantic relations have to be inferred from suffixes rather than from prepositions. Our approach combines a morphological analyser and surface syntax parsing (based on Constraint Grammar), and has proven very successful for highly inflected languages such as Basque. Both the effort to write the rules and the actual processing time of the dictionary have been very low. At present we have extracted 42,533 relations, leaving only 2,943 (9%) definitions without any extracted relation. The error rate is extremely low, as only 2.2% of the extracted relations are wrong.

Enriching very large ontologies using the WWW

This paper explores the possibility to exploit text on the world wide web in order to enrich the concepts in existing ontologies. First, a method to retrieve documents from the WWW related to a concept is described. These document collections are used 1) to construct topic signatures (lists of topically related words) for each concept in WordNet, and 2) to build hierarchical clusters of the concepts (the word senses) that lexicalize a given word. The overall goal is to overcome two shortcomings of WordNet: the lack of topical links among concepts, and the proliferation of senses. Topic signatures are validated on a word sense disambiguation task with good results, which are improved when the hierarchical clusters are used.

One Sense per Collocation and Genre/Topic Variations

This paper revisits the one sense per collocation hypothesis using fine-grained sense distinctions and two different corpora. We show that the hypothesis is weaker for fine-grained sense distinctions (70% vs. 99% reported earlier on 2-way ambiguities). We also show that one sense per collocation does hold across corpora, but that collocations vary from one corpus to the other, following genre and topic variations. This explains the low results when performing word sense disambiguation across corpora. In fact, we demonstrate that when two independent corpora share a related genre/topic, the word sense disambiguation results would be better. Future work on word sense disambiguation will have to take into account genre and topic as important parameters on their models.

Reduction of Intermediate Alphabets in Finite-State Transducer Cascades

This article describes an algorithm for reducing the intermediate alphabets in cascades of finite-state transducers (FSTs). Although the method modifies the component FSTs, there is no change in the overall relation described by the whole cascade. No additional information or special algorithm, that could decelerate the processing of input, is required at runtime. Two examples from Natural Language Processing are used to illustrate the effect of the algorithm on the sizes of the FSTs and their alphabets. With some FSTs the number of arcs and symbols shrank considerably.

Opportunity Cost Algorithms for Combinatorial Auctions

Two general algorithms based on opportunity costs are given for approximating a revenue-maximizing set of bids an auctioneer should accept, in a combinatorial auction in which each bidder offers a price for some subset of the available goods and the auctioneer can only accept non-intersecting bids. Since this problem is difficult even to approximate in general, the algorithms are most useful when the bids are restricted to be connected node subsets of an underlying object graph that represents which objects are relevant to each other. The approximation ratios of the algorithms depend on structural properties of this graph and are small constants for many interesting families of object graphs. The running times of the algorithms are linear in the size of the bid graph, which describes the conflicts between bids. Extensions of the algorithms allow for efficient processing of additional constraints, such as budget constraints that associate bids with particular bidders and limit how many bids from a particular bidder can be accepted.

Super Logic Programs

The Autoepistemic Logic of Knowledge and Belief (AELB) is a powerful nonmonotic formalism introduced by Teodor Przymusinski in 1994. In this paper, we specialize it to a class of theories called `super logic programs'. We argue that these programs form a natural generalization of standard logic programs. In particular, they allow disjunctions and default negation of arbibrary positive objective formulas.
Our main results are two new and powerful characterizations of the static semant ics of these programs, one syntactic, and one model-theoretic. The syntactic fixed point characterization is much simpler than the fixed point construction of the static semantics for arbitrary AELB theories. The model-theoretic characterization via Kripke models allows one to construct finite representations of the inherently infinite static expansions.
Both characterizations can be used as the basis of algorithms for query answering under the static semantics. We describe a query-answering interpreter for super programs which we developed based on the model-theoretic characterization and which is available on the web.

A Formal Framework for Linguistic Annotation (revised version)

`Linguistic annotation' covers any descriptive or analytic notations applied to raw language data. The basic data may be in the form of time functions - audio, video and/or physiological recordings - or it may be textual. The added notations may include transcriptions of all sorts (from phonetic features to discourse structures), part-of-speech and sense tagging, syntactic analysis, `named entity' identification, co-reference annotation, and so on. While there are several ongoing efforts to provide formats and tools for such annotations and to publish annotated linguistic databases, the lack of widely accepted standards is becoming a critical problem. Proposed standards, to the extent they exist, have focused on file formats. This paper focuses instead on the logical structure of linguistic annotations. We survey a wide variety of existing annotation formats and demonstrate a common conceptual core, the annotation graph. This provides a formal framework for constructing, maintaining and searching linguistic annotations, while remaining consistent with many alternative data structures and file formats.

Static Analysis Techniques for Equational Logic Programming

An equational logic program is a set of directed equations or rules, which are used to compute in the obvious way (by replacing equals with ``simpler'' equals). We present static analysis techniques for efficient equational logic programming, some of which have been implemented in $LR^2$, a laboratory for developing and evaluating fast, efficient, and practical rewriting techniques. Two novel features of $LR^2$ are that non-left-linear rules are allowed in most contexts and it has a tabling option based on the congruence-closure based algorithm to compute normal forms. Although, the focus of this research is on the tabling approach some of the techniques are applicable to the untabled approach as well. Our presentation is in the context of $LR^2$, which is an interpreter, but some of the techniques apply to compilation as well.

Proceedings of the Fourth International Workshop on Automated Debugging (AADEBUG 2000)

Over the past decades automated debugging has seen major achievements. However, as debugging is by necessity attached to particular programming paradigms, the results are scattered. The aims of the workshop are to gather common themes and solutions across programming communities, and to cross-fertilize ideas. AADEBUG 2000 in Munich follows AADEBUG'93 in Linkoeping, Sweden; AADEBUG'95 in Saint Malo, France; AADEBUG'97 in Linkoeping, Sweden.

Lattice Structure and Convergence of a Game of Cards

This paper is devoted to the study of the dynamics of a discrete system related to some self stabilizing protocol on a ring of processors.

On the relationship between fuzzy logic and four-valued relevance logic

In fuzzy propositional logic, to a proposition a partial truth in [0,1] is assigned. It is well known that under certain circumstances, fuzzy logic collapses to classical logic. In this paper, we will show that under dual conditions, fuzzy logic collapses to four-valued (relevance) logic, where propositions have truth-value true, false, unknown, or contradiction. As a consequence, fuzzy entailment may be considered as ``in between'' four-valued (relevance) entailment and classical entailment.

Collecting Graphical Abstract Views of Mercury Program Executions

A program execution monitor is a program that collects and abstracts information about program executions. The "collect" operator is a high level, general purpose primitive which lets users implement their own monitors. "Collect" is built on top of the Mercury trace. In previous work, we have demonstrated how this operator can be used to efficiently collect various kinds of statistics about Mercury program executions. In this article we further demonstrate the expressive power and effectiveness of "collect" by providing more monitor examples. In particular, we show how to implement monitors that generate graphical abstractions of program executions such as proof trees, control flow graphs and dynamic call graphs. We show how those abstractions can be easily modified and adapted, since those monitors only require several dozens of lines of code. Those abstractions are intended to serve as front-ends of software visualization tools. Although "collect" is currently implemented on top of the Mercury trace, none of its underlying concepts depend of Mercury and it can be implemented on top of any tracer for any programming language.

Computational Geometry Column 40

It has recently been established by Below, De Loera, and Richter-Gebert that finding a minimum size (or even just a small) triangulation of a convex polyhedron is NP-complete. Their 3SAT-reduction proof is discussed.

Utilizing the World Wide Web as an Encyclopedia: Extracting Term Descriptions from Semi-Structured Texts

In this paper, we propose a method to extract descriptions of technical terms from Web pages in order to utilize the World Wide Web as an encyclopedia. We use linguistic patterns and HTML text structures to extract text fragments containing term descriptions. We also use a language model to discard extraneous descriptions, and a clustering method to summarize resultant descriptions. We show the effectiveness of our method by way of experiments.

A Novelty-based Evaluation Method for Information Retrieval

In information retrieval research, precision and recall have long been used to evaluate IR systems. However, given that a number of retrieval systems resembling one another are already available to the public, it is valuable to retrieve novel relevant documents, i.e., documents that cannot be retrieved by those existing systems. In view of this problem, we propose an evaluation method that favors systems retrieving as many novel documents as possible. We also used our method to evaluate systems that participated in the IREX workshop.

Applying Machine Translation to Two-Stage Cross-Language Information Retrieval

Cross-language information retrieval (CLIR), where queries and documents are in different languages, needs a translation of queries and/or documents, so as to standardize both of them into a common representation. For this purpose, the use of machine translation is an effective approach. However, computational cost is prohibitive in translating large-scale document collections. To resolve this problem, we propose a two-stage CLIR method. First, we translate a given query into the document language, and retrieve a limited number of foreign documents. Second, we machine translate only those documents into the user language, and re-rank them based on the translation result. We also show the effectiveness of our method by way of experiments using Japanese queries and English technical documents.

Anonymous Oblivious Transfer

In this short note we want to introduce {\em anonymous oblivious transfer} a new cryptographic primitive which can be proven to be strictly more powerful than oblivious transfer. We show that all functions can be robustly realized by multi party protocols with {\em anonymous oblivious transfer}. No assumption about possible collusions of cheaters or disruptors have to be made. Furthermore we shortly discuss how to realize anonymous oblivious transfer with oblivious broadcast or by quantum cryptography. The protocol of anonymous oblivious transfer was inspired by a quantum protocol: the anonymous quantum channel.

Non-intrusive on-the-fly data race detection using execution replay

This paper presents a practical solution for detecting data races in parallel programs. The solution consists of a combination of execution replay (RecPlay) with automatic on-the-fly data race detection. This combination enables us to perform the data race detection on an unaltered execution (almost no probe effect). Furthermore, the usage of multilevel bitmaps and snooped matrix clocks limits the amount of memory used. As the record phase of RecPlay is highly efficient, there is no need to switch it off, hereby eliminating the possibility of Heisenbugs because tracing can be left on all the time.

Execution replay and debugging

As most parallel and distributed programs are internally non-deterministic -- consecutive runs with the same input might result in a different program flow -- vanilla cyclic debugging techniques as such are useless. In order to use cyclic debugging tools, we need a tool that records information about an execution so that it can be replayed for debugging. Because recording information interferes with the execution, we must limit the amount of information and keep the processing of the information fast. This paper contains a survey of existing execution replay techniques and tools.

Tree-gram Parsing: Lexical Dependencies and Structural Relations

This paper explores the kinds of probabilistic relations that are important in syntactic disambiguation. It proposes that two widely used kinds of relations, lexical dependencies and structural relations, have complementary disambiguation capabilities. It presents a new model based on structural relations, the Tree-gram model, and reports experiments showing that structural relations should benefit from enrichment by lexical dependencies.

A Lambda-Calculus with letrec, case, constructors and non-determinism

A non-deterministic call-by-need lambda-calculus \calc with case, constructors, letrec and a (non-deterministic) erratic choice, based on rewriting rules is investigated. A standard reduction is defined as a variant of left-most outermost reduction. The semantics is defined by contextual equivalence of expressions instead of using $αβ(η)$-equivalence. It is shown that several program transformations are correct, for example all (deterministic) rules of the calculus, and in addition the rules for garbage collection, removing indirections and unique copy.
This shows that the combination of a context lemma and a meta-rewriting on reductions using complete sets of commuting (forking, resp.) diagrams is a useful and successful method for providing a semantics of a functional programming language and proving correctness of program transformations.

Small Maximal Independent Sets and Faster Exact Graph Coloring

We show that, for any n-vertex graph G and integer parameter k, there are at most 3^{4k-n}4^{n-3k} maximal independent sets I \subset G with |I| <= k, and that all such sets can be listed in time O(3^{4k-n} 4^{n-3k}). These bounds are tight when n/4 <= k <= n/3. As a consequence, we show how to compute the exact chromatic number of a graph in time O((4/3 + 3^{4/3}/4)^n) ~= 2.4150^n, improving a previous O((1+3^{1/3})^n) ~= 2.4422^n algorithm of Lawler (1976).

Extension Language Automation of Embedded System Debugging

Embedded systems contain several layers of target processing abstraction. These layers include electronic circuit, binary machine code, mnemonic assembly code, and high-level procedural and object-oriented abstractions. Physical and temporal constraints and artifacts within physically embedded systems make it impossible for software engineers to operate at a single layer of processor abstraction. The Luxdbg embedded system debugger exposes these layers to debugger users, and it adds an additional layer, the extension language layer, that allows users to extend both the debugger and its target processor capabilities. Tcl is Luxdbg's extension language. Luxdbg users can apply Tcl to automate interactive debugging steps, to redirect and to interconnect target processor input-output facilities, to schedule multiple processor execution, to log and to react to target processing exceptions, and to automate target system testing. Inclusion of an extension language like Tcl in a debugger promises additional advantages for distributed debugging, where debuggers can pass extension language expressions across computer networks.

Formal Properties of XML Grammars and Languages

XML documents are described by a document type definition (DTD). An XML-grammar is a formal grammar that captures the syntactic features of a DTD. We investigate properties of this family of grammars. We show that every XML-language basically has a unique XML-grammar. We give two characterizations of languages generated by XML-grammars, one is set-theoretic, the other is by a kind of saturation property. We investigate decidability problems and prove that some properties that are undecidable for general context-free languages become decidable for XML-languages. We also characterize those XML-grammars that generate regular XML-languages.

Transformation-Based Bottom-Up Computation of the Well-Founded Model

We present a framework for expressing bottom-up algorithms to compute the well-founded model of non-disjunctive logic programs. Our method is based on the notion of conditional facts and elementary program transformations studied by Brass and Dix for disjunctive programs. However, even if we restrict their framework to nondisjunctive programs, their residual program can grow to exponential size, whereas for function-free programs our program remainder is always polynomial in the size of the extensional database (EDB).
We show that particular orderings of our transformations (we call them strategies) correspond to well-known computational methods like the alternating fixpoint approach, the well-founded magic sets method and the magic alternating fixpoint procedure. However, due to the confluence of our calculi, we come up with computations of the well-founded model that are provably better than these methods.
In contrast to other approaches, our transformation method treats magic set transformed programs correctly, i.e. it always computes a relevant part of the well-founded model of the original program.

Chip-level CMP Modeling and Smart Dummy for HDP and Conformal CVD Films

Chip-level CMP modeling is investigated to obtain the post-CMP film profile thickness across a die from its design layout file and a few film deposition and CMP parameters. The work covers both HDP and conformal CVD film. The experimental CMP results agree well with the modeled results. Different algorithms for filling of dummy structure are compared. A smart algorithm for dummy filling is presented, which achieves maximal pattern-density uniformity and CMP planarity.

A Decomposition Theorem for Maximum Weight Bipartite Matchings

Let G be a bipartite graph with positive integer weights on the edges and without isolated nodes. Let n, N and W be the node count, the largest edge weight and the total weight of G. Let k(x,y) be log(x)/log(x^2/y). We present a new decomposition theorem for maximum weight bipartite matchings and use it to design an O(sqrt(n)W/k(n,W/N))-time algorithm for computing a maximum weight matching of G. This algorithm bridges a long-standing gap between the best known time complexity of computing a maximum weight matching and that of computing a maximum cardinality matching. Given G and a maximum weight matching of G, we can further compute the weight of a maximum weight matching of G-{u} for all nodes u in O(W) time.

Designing Proxies for Stock Market Indices is Computationally Hard

In this paper, we study the problem of designing proxies (or portfolios) for various stock market indices based on historical data. We use four different methods for computing market indices, all of which are formulas used in actual stock market analysis. For each index, we consider three criteria for designing the proxy: the proxy must either track the market index, outperform the market index, or perform within a margin of error of the index while maintaining a low volatility. In eleven of the twelve cases (all combinations of four indices with three criteria except the problem of sacrificing return for less volatility using the price-relative index) we show that the problem is NP-hard, and hence most likely intractable.

Automatic Debugging Support for UML Designs

Design of large software systems requires rigorous application of software engineering methods covering all phases of the software process. Debugging during the early design phases is extremely important, because late bug-fixes are expensive.
In this paper, we describe an approach which facilitates debugging of UML requirements and designs. The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a set of notations for object-orient design of a software system. We have developed an algorithm which translates requirement specifications in the form of annotated sequence diagrams into structured statecharts. This algorithm detects conflicts between sequence diagrams and inconsistencies in the domain knowledge. After synthesizing statecharts from sequence diagrams, these statecharts usually are subject to manual modification and refinement. By using the ``backward'' direction of our synthesis algorithm, we are able to map modifications made to the statechart back into the requirements (sequence diagrams) and check for conflicts there. Fed back to the user conflicts detected by our algorithm are the basis for deductive-based debugging of requirements and domain theory in very early development stages. Our approach allows to generate explanations on why there is a conflict and which parts of the specifications are affected.

Optimal Buy-and-Hold Strategies for Financial Markets with Bounded Daily Returns

In the context of investment analysis, we formulate an abstract online computing problem called a planning game and develop general tools for solving such a game. We then use the tools to investigate a practical buy-and-hold trading problem faced by long-term investors in stocks. We obtain the unique optimal static online algorithm for the problem and determine its exact competitive ratio. We also compare this algorithm with the popular dollar averaging strategy using actual market data.

A Moment of Perfect Clarity II: Consequences of Sparse Sets Hard for NP with Respect to Weak Reductions

This paper discusses advances, due to the work of Cai, Naik, and Sivakumar and Glasser, in the complexity class collapses that follow if NP has sparse hard sets under reductions weaker than (full) truth-table reductions.

The Use of Instrumentation in Grammar Engineering

This paper explores the usefulness of a technique from software engineering, code instrumentation, for the development of large-scale natural language grammars. Information about the usage of grammar rules in test and corpus sentences is used to improve grammar and testsuite, as well as adapting a grammar to a specific genre. Results show that less than half of a large-coverage grammar for German is actually tested by two large testsuites, and that 10--30% of testing time is redundant. This methodology applied can be seen as a re-use of grammar writing knowledge for testsuite compilation.

On-the-fly Query-Based Debugging with Examples

Program errors are hard to find because of the cause-effect gap between the time when an error occurs and the time when the error becomes apparent to the programmer. Although debugging techniques such as conditional and data breakpoints help to find error causes in simple cases, they fail to effectively bridge the cause-effect gap in many situations. Query-based debuggers offer programmers an effective tool that provides instant error alert by continuously checking inter-object relationships while the debugged program is running. To enable the query-based debugger in the middle of program execution in a portable way, we propose efficient Java class file instrumentation and discuss alternative techniques. Although the on-the-fly debugger has a higher overhead than a dynamic query-based debugger, it offers additional interactive power and flexibility while maintaining complete portability. To speed up dynamic query evaluation, our debugger implemented in portable Java uses a combination of program instrumentation, load-time code generation, query optimization, and incremental reevaluation. This paper discusses on-the-fly debugging and demonstrates the query-based debugger application for debugging Java gas tank applet as well as SPECjvm98 suite applications.

Apache web server execution tracing using Third Eye

Testing of modern software systems that integrate many components developed by different teams is a difficult task. Third Eye is a framework for tracing and validating software systems using application domain events. We use formal descriptions of the constraints between events to identify violations in execution traces. Third Eye is a flexible and modular framework that can be used in different products. We present the validation of the Apache Web Server access policy implementation. The results indicate that our tool is a helpful addition to software development infrastructure.

Optimal Bidding Algorithms Against Cheating in Multiple-Object Auctions

This paper studies some basic problems in a multiple-object auction model using methodologies from theoretical computer science. We are especially concerned with situations where an adversary bidder knows the bidding algorithms of all the other bidders. In the two-bidder case, we derive an optimal randomized bidding algorithm, by which the disadvantaged bidder can procure at least half of the auction objects despite the adversary's a priori knowledge of his algorithm. In the general $k$-bidder case, if the number of objects is a multiple of $k$, an optimal randomized bidding algorithm is found. If the $k-1$ disadvantaged bidders employ that same algorithm, each of them can obtain at least $1/k$ of the objects regardless of the bidding algorithm the adversary uses. These two algorithms are based on closed-form solutions to certain multivariate probability distributions. In situations where a closed-form solution cannot be obtained, we study a restricted class of bidding algorithms as an approximation to desired optimal algorithms.

Algorithms for Rewriting Aggregate Queries Using Views

Queries involving aggregation are typical in database applications. One of the main ideas to optimize the execution of an aggregate query is to reuse results of previously answered queries. This leads to the problem of rewriting aggregate queries using views. Due to a lack of theory, algorithms for this problem were rather ad-hoc. They were sound, but were not proven to be complete.
Recently we have given syntactic characterizations for the equivalence of aggregate queries and applied them to decide when there exist rewritings. However, these decision procedures do not lend themselves immediately to an implementation. In this paper, we present practical algorithms for rewriting queries with $\COUNT$ and $\SUM$. Our algorithms are sound. They are also complete for important cases. Our techniques can be used to improve well-known procedures for rewriting non-aggregate queries. These procedures can then be adapted to obtain algorithms for rewriting queries with $\MIN$ and $\MAX$. The algorithms presented are a basis for realizing optimizers that rewrite queries using views.

Termination analysis of logic programs using acceptability with general term orders

We present a new approach to termination analysis of logic programs. The essence of the approach is that we make use of general term-orderings (instead of level mappings), like it is done in transformational approaches to logic program termination analysis, but that we apply these orderings directly to the logic program and not to the term-rewrite system obtained through some transformation. We define some variants of acceptability, based on general term-orderings, and show how they are equivalent to LD-termination. We develop a demand driven, constraint-based approach to verify these acceptability-variants.
The advantage of the approach over standard acceptability is that in some cases, where complex level mappings are needed, fairly simple term-orderings may be easily generated. The advantage over transformational approaches is that it avoids the transformation step all together.

When Can You Fold a Map?

We explore the following problem: given a collection of creases on a piece of paper, each assigned a folding direction of mountain or valley, is there a flat folding by a sequence of simple folds? There are several models of simple folds; the simplest one-layer simple fold rotates a portion of paper about a crease in the paper by +-180 degrees. We first consider the analogous questions in one dimension lower -- bending a segment into a flat object -- which lead to interesting problems on strings. We develop efficient algorithms for the recognition of simply foldable 1D crease patterns, and reconstruction of a sequence of simple folds. Indeed, we prove that a 1D crease pattern is flat-foldable by any means precisely if it is by a sequence of one-layer simple folds.
Next we explore simple foldability in two dimensions, and find a surprising contrast: ``map'' folding and variants are polynomial, but slight generalizations are NP-complete. Specifically, we develop a linear-time algorithm for deciding foldability of an orthogonal crease pattern on a rectangular piece of paper, and prove that it is (weakly) NP-complete to decide foldability of (1) an orthogonal crease pattern on a orthogonal piece of paper, (2) a crease pattern of axis-parallel and diagonal (45-degree) creases on a square piece of paper, and (3) crease patterns without a mountain/valley assignment.

Extended Abstract - Model-Based Debugging of Java Programs

Model-based reasoning is a central concept in current research into intelligent diagnostic systems. It is based on the assumption that sources of incorrect behavior in technical devices can be located and identified via the existence of a model describing the basic properties of components of a certain application domain. When actual data concerning the misbehavior of a system composed from such components is available, a domain-independent diagnosis engine can be used to infer which parts of the system contribute to the observed behavior. This paper describes the application of the model-based approach to the debugging of Java programs written in a subset of Java. We show how a simple dependency model can be derived from a program, demonstrate the use of the model for debugging and reducing the required user interactions, give a comparison of the functional dependency model with program slicing, and finally discuss some current research issues.

Retrieval from Captioned Image Databases Using Natural Language Processing

It might appear that natural language processing should improve the accuracy of information retrieval systems, by making available a more detailed analysis of queries and documents. Although past results appear to show that this is not so, if the focus is shifted to short phrases rather than full documents, the situation becomes somewhat different. The ANVIL system uses a natural language technique to obtain high accuracy retrieval of images which have been annotated with a descriptive textual caption. The natural language techniques also allow additional contextual information to be derived from the relation between the query and the caption, which can help users to understand the overall collection of retrieval results. The techniques have been successfully used in a information retrieval system which forms both a testbed for research and the basis of a commercial system.

Systematic Debugging of Attribute Grammars

Although attribute grammars are commonly used for compiler construction, little investigation has been conducted on debugging attribute grammars. The paper proposes two types of systematic debugging methods, an algorithmic debugging and slice-based debugging, both tailored for attribute grammars. By means of query-based interaction with the developer, our debugging methods effectively narrow the potential bug space in the attribute grammar description and eventually identify the incorrect attribution rule. We have incorporated this technology in our visual debugging tool called Aki.

Logic Programming Approaches for Representing and Solving Constraint Satisfaction Problems: A Comparison

Many logic programming based approaches can be used to describe and solve combinatorial search problems. On the one hand there is constraint logic programming which computes a solution as an answer substitution to a query containing the variables of the constraint satisfaction problem. On the other hand there are systems based on stable model semantics, abductive systems, and first order logic model generators which compute solutions as models of some theory. This paper compares these different approaches from the point of view of knowledge representation (how declarative are the programs) and from the point of view of performance (how good are they at solving typical problems).

SimLab 1.1, Software for Sensitivity and Uncertainty Analysis, tool for sound modelling

The aim of this paper is to present and describe SimLab 1.1 (Simulation Laboratory for Uncertainty and Sensitivity Analysis) software designed for Monte Carlo analysis that is based on performing multiple model evaluations with probabilistically selected model input. The results of these evaluations are used to determine both the uncertainty in model predictions and the input variables that drive this uncertainty. This methodology is essential in situations where a decision has to be taken based on the model results; typical examples include risk and emergency management systems, financial analysis and many others. It is also highly recommended as part of model validation, even where the models are used for diagnostic purposes, as an element of sound model building. SimLab allows an exploration of the space of possible alternative model assumptions and structure on the prediction of the model, thereby testing both the quality of the model and the robustness of the model based inference.

Top-down induction of clustering trees

An approach to clustering is presented that adapts the basic top-down induction of decision trees method towards clustering. To this aim, it employs the principles of instance based learning. The resulting methodology is implemented in the TIC (Top down Induction of Clustering trees) system for first order clustering. The TIC system employs the first order logical decision tree representation of the inductive logic programming system Tilde. Various experiments with TIC are presented, in both propositional and relational domains.

Web Mining Research: A Survey

With the huge amount of information available online, the World Wide Web is a fertile area for data mining research. The Web mining research is at the cross road of research from several research communities, such as database, information retrieval, and within AI, especially the sub-areas of machine learning and natural language processing. However, there is a lot of confusions when comparing research efforts from different point of views. In this paper, we survey the research in the area of Web mining, point out some confusions regarded the usage of the term Web mining and suggest three Web mining categories. Then we situate some of the research with respect to these three categories. We also explore the connection between the Web mining categories and the related agent paradigm. For the survey, we focus on representation issues, on the process, on the learning algorithm, and on the application of the recent works as the criteria. We conclude the paper with some research issues.

Automatic Termination Analysis of Programs Containing Arithmetic Predicates

For logic programs with arithmetic predicates, showing termination is not easy, since the usual order for the integers is not well-founded. A new method, easily incorporated in the TermiLog system for automatic termination analysis, is presented for showing termination in this case.
The method consists of the following steps: First, a finite abstract domain for representing the range of integers is deduced automatically. Based on this abstraction, abstract interpretation is applied to the program. The result is a finite number of atoms abstracting answers to queries which are used to extend the technique of query-mapping pairs. For each query-mapping pair that is potentially non-terminating, a bounded (integer-valued) termination function is guessed. If traversing the pair decreases the value of the termination function, then termination is established. Simple functions often suffice for each query-mapping pair, and that gives our approach an edge over the classical approach of using a single termination function for all loops, which must inevitably be more complicated and harder to guess automatically. It is worth noting that the termination of McCarthy's 91 function can be shown automatically using our method.
In summary, the proposed approach is based on combining a finite abstraction of the integers with the technique of the query-mapping pairs, and is essentially capable of dividing a termination proof into several cases, such that a simple termination function suffices for each case. Consequently, the whole process of proving termination can be done automatically in the framework of TermiLog and similar systems.

A syntactical analysis of non-size-increasing polynomial time computation

A syntactical proof is given that all functions definable in a certain affine linear typed lambda-calculus with iteration in all types are polynomial time computable. The proof provides explicit polynomial bounds that can easily be calculated.

Provably Fast and Accurate Recovery of Evolutionary Trees through Harmonic Greedy Triplets

We give a greedy learning algorithm for reconstructing an evolutionary tree based on a certain harmonic average on triplets of terminal taxa. After the pairwise distances between terminal taxa are estimated from sequence data, the algorithm runs in O(n^2) time using O(n) work space, where n is the number of terminal taxa. These time and space complexities are optimal in the sense that the size of an input distance matrix is n^2 and the size of an output tree is n. Moreover, in the Jukes-Cantor model of evolution, the algorithm recovers the correct tree topology with high probability using sample sequences of length polynomial in (1) n, (2) the logarithm of the error probability, and (3) the inverses of two small parameters.

A Complete Characterization of Complete Intersection-Type Theories

We characterize those intersection-type theories which yield complete intersection-type assignment systems for lambda-calculi, with respect to the three canonical set-theoretical semantics for intersection-types: the inference semantics, the simple semantics and the F-semantics. These semantics arise by taking as interpretation of types subsets of applicative structures, as interpretation of the intersection constructor set-theoretic inclusion, and by taking the interpretation of the arrow constructor a' la Scott, with respect to either any possible functionality set, or the largest one, or the least one.
These results strengthen and generalize significantly all earlier results in the literature, to our knowledge, in at least three respects. First of all the inference semantics had not been considered before. Secondly, the characterizations are all given just in terms of simple closure conditions on the preorder relation on the types, rather than on the typing judgments themselves. The task of checking the condition is made therefore considerably more tractable. Lastly, we do not restrict attention just to lambda-models, but to arbitrary applicative structures which admit an interpretation function. Thus we allow also for the treatment of models of restricted lambda-calculi. Nevertheless the characterizations we give can be tailored just to the case of lambda-models.

Do All Fragments Count?

We aim at finding the minimal set of fragments which achieves maximal parse accuracy in Data Oriented Parsing. Experiments with the Penn Wall Street Journal treebank show that counts of almost arbitrary fragments within parse trees are important, leading to improved parse accuracy over previous models tested on this treebank. We isolate a number of dependency relations which previous models neglect but which contribute to higher parse accuracy.

EquiX---A Search and Query Language for XML

EquiX is a search language for XML that combines the power of querying with the simplicity of searching. Requirements for such languages are discussed and it is shown that EquiX meets the necessary criteria. Both a graphical abstract syntax and a formal concrete syntax are presented for EquiX queries. In addition, the semantics is defined and an evaluation algorithm is presented. The evaluation algorithm is polynomial under combined complexity.
EquiX combines pattern matching, quantification and logical expressions to query both the data and meta-data of XML documents. The result of a query in EquiX is a set of XML documents. A DTD describing the result documents is derived automatically from the query.

Order-consistent programs are cautiously monotonic

Some normal logic programs under the answer set (stable model) semantics lack the appealing property of "cautious monotonicity." That is, augmenting a program with one of its consequences may cause it to lose another of its consequences. The syntactic condition of "order-consistency" was shown by Fages to guarantee existence of an answer set. This note establishes that order-consistent programs are not only consistent, but cautiously monotonic.
From this it follows that they are also "cumulative." That is, augmenting an order-consistent with some of its consequences does not alter its consequences. In fact, as we show, its answer sets remain unchanged.

Rewriting Calculus: Foundations and Applications

This thesis is devoted to the study of a calculus that describes the application of conditional rewriting rules and the obtained results at the same level of representation. We introduce the rewriting calculus, also called the rho-calculus, which generalizes the first order term rewriting and lambda-calculus, and makes possible the representation of the non-determinism. In our approach the abstraction operator as well as the application operator are objects of calculus. The result of a reduction in the rewriting calculus is either an empty set representing the application failure, or a singleton representing a deterministic result, or a set having several elements representing a not-deterministic choice of results.
In this thesis we concentrate on the properties of the rewriting calculus where a syntactic matching is used in order to bind the variables to their current values. We define evaluation strategies ensuring the confluence of the calculus and we show that these strategies become trivial for restrictions of the general rewriting calculus to simpler calculi like the lambda-calculus. The rewriting calculus is not terminating in the untyped case but the strong normalization is obtained for the simply typed calculus.
In the rewriting calculus extended with an operator allowing to test the application failure we define terms representing innermost and outermost normalizations with respect to a set of rewriting rules. By using these terms, we obtain a natural and concise description of the conditional rewriting. Finally, starting from the representation of the conditional rewriting rules, we show how the rewriting calculus can be used to give a semantics to ELAN, a language based on the application of rewriting rules controlled by strategies.

Scaling Up Inductive Logic Programming by Learning from Interpretations

When comparing inductive logic programming (ILP) and attribute-value learning techniques, there is a trade-off between expressive power and efficiency. Inductive logic programming techniques are typically more expressive but also less efficient. Therefore, the data sets handled by current inductive logic programming systems are small according to general standards within the data mining community. The main source of inefficiency lies in the assumption that several examples may be related to each other, so they cannot be handled independently.
Within the learning from interpretations framework for inductive logic programming this assumption is unnecessary, which allows to scale up existing ILP algorithms. In this paper we explain this learning setting in the context of relational databases. We relate the setting to propositional data mining and to the classical ILP setting, and show that learning from interpretations corresponds to learning from multiple relations and thus extends the expressiveness of propositional learning, while maintaining its efficiency to a large extent (which is not the case in the classical ILP setting).
As a case study, we present two alternative implementations of the ILP system Tilde (Top-down Induction of Logical DEcision trees): Tilde-classic, which loads all data in main memory, and Tilde-LDS, which loads the examples one by one. We experimentally compare the implementations, showing Tilde-LDS can handle large data sets (in the order of 100,000 examples or 100 MB) and indeed scales up linearly in the number of examples.

Index Assignment for Multichannel Communication under Failure

We consider the problem of multiple description scalar quantizers and describing the achievable rate-distortion tuples in that setting. We formulate it as a combinatorial optimization problem of arranging numbers in a matrix to minimize the maximum difference between the largest and the smallest number in any row or column. We develop a technique for deriving lower bounds on the distortion at given channel rates. The approach is constructive, thus allowing an algorithm that gives a closely matching upper bound. For the case of two communication channels with equal rates, the bounds coincide, thus giving the precise lowest achievable distortion at fixed rates. The bounds are within a small constant for higher number of channels. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first result concerning systems with more than two communication channels. The problem is also equivalent to the bandwidth minimization problem of Hamming graphs.

Available Stabilizing Heaps

This paper describes a heap construction that supports insert and delete operations in arbitrary (possibly illegitimate) states. After any sequence of at most O(m) heap operations, the heap state is guarantee to be legitimate, where m is the initial number of items in the heap. The response from each operation is consistent with its effect on the data structure, even for illegitimate states. The time complexity of each operation is O(lg K) where K is the capacity of the data structure; when the heap's state is legitimate the time complexity is O(lg n) for n equal to the number items in the heap.

Questions for a Materialist Philosophy Implying the Equivalence of Computers and Human Cognition

Issues related to a materialist philosophy are explored as concerns the implied equivalence of computers running software and human observers. One issue explored concerns the measurement process in quantum mechanics. Another issue explored concerns the nature of experience as revealed by the existence of dreams. Some difficulties stemming from a materialist philosophy as regards these issues are pointed out. For example, a gedankenexperiment involving what has been called "negative" observation is discussed that illustrates the difficulty with a materialist assumption in quantum mechanics. Based on an exploration of these difficulties, specifications are outlined briefly that would provide a means to demonstrate the equivalence of of computers running software and human experience given a materialist assumption.

Improving Performance of heavily loaded agents

With the increase in agent-based applications, there are now agent systems that support \emph{concurrent} client accesses. The ability to process large volumes of simultaneous requests is critical in many such applications. In such a setting, the traditional approach of serving these requests one at a time via queues (e.g. \textsf{FIFO} queues, priority queues) is insufficient. Alternative models are essential to improve the performance of such \emph{heavily loaded} agents. In this paper, we propose a set of \emph{cost-based algorithms} to \emph{optimize} and \emph{merge} multiple requests submitted to an agent. In order to merge a set of requests, one first needs to identify commonalities among such requests. First, we provide an \emph{application independent framework} within which an agent developer may specify relationships (called \emph{invariants}) between requests. Second, we provide two algorithms (and various accompanying heuristics) which allow an agent to automatically rewrite requests so as to avoid redundant work---these algorithms take invariants associated with the agent into account. Our algorithms are independent of any specific agent framework. For an implementation, we implemented both these algorithms on top of the \impact agent development platform, and on top of a (non-\impact) geographic database agent. Based on these implementations, we conducted experiments and show that our algorithms are considerably more efficient than methods that use the $A^*$ algorithm.

Value Withdrawal Explanation in CSP

This work is devoted to constraint solving motivated by the debugging of constraint logic programs a la GNU-Prolog. The paper focuses only on the constraints. In this framework, constraint solving amounts to domain reduction. A computation is formalized by a chaotic iteration. The computed result is described as a closure. This model is well suited to the design of debugging notions and tools, for example failure explanations or error diagnosis. In this paper we detail an application of the model to an explanation of a value withdrawal in a domain. Some other works have already shown the interest of such a notion of explanation not only for failure analysis.

Support for Debugging Automatically Parallelized Programs

We describe a system that simplifies the process of debugging programs produced by computer-aided parallelization tools. The system uses relative debugging techniques to compare serial and parallel executions in order to show where the computations begin to differ. If the original serial code is correct, errors due to parallelization will be isolated by the comparison.
One of the primary goals of the system is to minimize the effort required of the user. To that end, the debugging system uses information produced by the parallelization tool to drive the comparison process. In particular, the debugging system relies on the parallelization tool to provide information about where variables may have been modified and how arrays are distributed across multiple processes. User effort is also reduced through the use of dynamic instrumentation. This allows us to modify the program execution without changing the way the user builds the executable.
The use of dynamic instrumentation also permits us to compare the executions in a fine-grained fashion and only involve the debugger when a difference has been detected. This reduces the overhead of executing instrumentation.

Kima - an Automated Error Correction System for Concurrent Logic Programs

We have implemented Kima, an automated error correction system for concurrent logic programs. Kima corrects near-misses such as wrong variable occurrences in the absence of explicit declarations of program properties. Strong moding/typing and constraint-based analysis are turning to play fundamental roles in debugging concurrent logic programs as well as in establishing the consistency of communication protocols and data types. Mode/type analysis of Moded Flat GHC is a constraint satisfaction problem with many simple mode/type constraints, and can be solved efficiently. We proposed a simple and efficient technique which, given a non-well-moded/typed program, diagnoses the ``reasons'' of inconsistency by finding minimal inconsistent subsets of mode/type constraints. Since each constraint keeps track of the symbol occurrence in the program, a minimal subset also tells possible sources of program errors. Kima realizes automated correction by replacing symbol occurrences around the possible sources and recalculating modes and types of the rewritten programs systematically. As long as bugs are near-misses, Kima proposes a rather small number of alternatives that include an intended program.

Finding Failure Causes through Automated Testing

A program fails. Under which circumstances does this failure occur? One single algorithm, the delta debugging algorithm, suffices to determine these failure-inducing circumstances. Delta debugging tests a program systematically and automatically to isolate failure-inducing circumstances such as the program input, changes to the program code, or executed statements.

The Role of Commutativity in Constraint Propagation Algorithms

Constraint propagation algorithms form an important part of most of the constraint programming systems. We provide here a simple, yet very general framework that allows us to explain several constraint propagation algorithms in a systematic way. In this framework we proceed in two steps. First, we introduce a generic iteration algorithm on partial orderings and prove its correctness in an abstract setting. Then we instantiate this algorithm with specific partial orderings and functions to obtain specific constraint propagation algorithms.
In particular, using the notions commutativity and semi-commutativity, we show that the {\tt AC-3}, {\tt PC-2}, {\tt DAC} and {\tt DPC} algorithms for achieving (directional) arc consistency and (directional) path consistency are instances of a single generic algorithm. The work reported here extends and simplifies that of Apt \citeyear{Apt99b}.

Slicing of Constraint Logic Programs

Slicing is a program analysis technique originally developed for imperative languages. It facilitates understanding of data flow and debugging.
This paper discusses slicing of Constraint Logic Programs. Constraint Logic Programming (CLP) is an emerging software technology with a growing number of applications. Data flow in constraint programs is not explicit, and for this reason the concepts of slice and the slicing techniques of imperative languages are not directly applicable.
This paper formulates declarative notions of slice suitable for CLP. They provide a basis for defining slicing techniques (both dynamic and static) based on variable sharing. The techniques are further extended by using groundness information.
A prototype dynamic slicer of CLP programs implementing the presented ideas is briefly described together with the results of some slicing experiments.

Well-Typed Logic Programs Are not Wrong

We consider prescriptive type systems for logic programs (as in Goedel or Mercury). In such systems, the typing is static, but it guarantees an operational property: if a program is "well-typed", then all derivations starting in a "well-typed" query are again "well-typed". This property has been called subject reduction. We show that this property can also be phrased as a property of the proof-theoretic semantics of logic programs, thus abstracting from the usual operational (top-down) semantics. This proof-theoretic view leads us to questioning a condition which is usually considered necessary for subject reduction, namely the head condition. It states that the head of each clause must have a type which is a variant (and not a proper instance) of the declared type. We provide a more general condition, thus reestablishing a certain symmetry between heads and body atoms. The condition ensures that in a derivation, the types of two unified terms are themselves unifiable. We discuss possible implications of this result. We also discuss the relationship between the head condition and polymorphic recursion, a concept known in functional programming.

A Virtual Java Simulation Lab for Computer Science Students

The VJ-Lab is a project oriented to improve the students learning process of Computer Science degree at the National University of La Plata. The VJ-Lab is a Web application with Java based simulations. Java can be used to provide simulation environments with simple pictorial interfaces that can help students to understand the subject. There are many fields in which it is difficult to give students a feel for the subject that they are learning. Computer based simulations offer a fun and effective way to enable students to learn by doing. Both, practicing skills and applying knowledge are both allowed in simulated worlds. We will focus on the VJ-Lab project overview, the work in progress and some Java based simulations running. They imitate the behavior of data network protocol and data structure algorithms. These applets are produced by the students of the 'Software Development Laboratory' course.

Towards Robust Quantum Computation

Quantum computation is a subject of much theoretical promise, but has not been realized in large scale, despite the discovery of fault-tolerant procedures to overcome decoherence. Part of the reason is that the theoretically modest requirements still present daunting experimental challenges. The goal of this Dissertation is to reduce various resources required for robust quantum computation, focusing on quantum error correcting codes and solution NMR quantum computation. A variety of techniques have been developed, including high rate quantum codes for amplitude damping, relaxed criteria for quantum error correction, systematic construction of fault-tolerant gates, recipes for quantum process tomography, techniques in bulk thermal state computation, and efficient decoupling techniques to implement selective coupled logic gates. A detailed experimental study of a quantum error correcting code in NMR is also presented. The Dissertation clarifies and extends results previously reported in quant-ph/9610043, quant-ph/9704002, quant-ph/9811068, quant-ph/9904100, quant-ph/9906112, quant-ph/0002039. Additionally, a procedure for quantum process tomography using maximally entangled states, and a review on NMR quantum computation are included.

Resource-distribution via Boolean constraints

We consider the problem of searching for proofs in sequential presentations of logics with multiplicative (or intensional) connectives. Specifically, we start with the multiplicative fragment of linear logic and extend, on the one hand, to linear logic with its additives and, on the other, to the additives of the logic of bunched implications, BI. We give an algebraic method for calculating the distribution of the side-formulae in multiplicative rules which allows the occurrence or non-occurrence of a formula on a branch of a proof to be determined once sufficient information is available. Each formula in the conclusion of such a rule is assigned a Boolean expression. As a search proceeds, a set of Boolean constraint equations is generated. We show that a solution to such a set of equations determines a proof corresponding to the given search. We explain a range of strategies, from the lazy to the eager, for solving sets of constraint equations. We indicate how to apply our methods systematically to large family of relevant systems.

A Note on Power-Laws of Internet Topology

The three Power-Laws proposed by Faloutsos et al(1999) are important discoveries among many recent works on finding hidden rules in the seemingly chaotic Internet topology. In this note, we want to point out that the first two laws discovered by Faloutsos et al(1999, hereafter, {\it Faloutsos' Power Laws}) are in fact equivalent. That is, as long as any one of them is true, the other can be derived from it, and {\it vice versa}. Although these two laws are equivalent, they provide different ways to measure the exponents of their corresponding power law relations. We also show that these two measures will give equivalent results, but with different error bars. We argue that for nodes of not very large out-degree($\leq 32$ in our simulation), the first Faloutsos' Power Law is superior to the second one in giving a better estimate of the exponent, while for nodes of very large out-degree($> 32$) the power law relation may not be present, at least for the relation between the frequency of out-degree and node out-degree.

Creativity and Delusions: A Neurocomputational Approach

Thinking is one of the most interesting mental processes. Its complexity is sometimes simplified and its different manifestations are classified into normal and abnormal, like the delusional and disorganized thought or the creative one. The boundaries between these facets of thinking are fuzzy causing difficulties in medical, academic, and philosophical discussions. Considering the dopaminergic signal-to-noise neuronal modulation in the central nervous system, and the existence of semantic maps in human brain, a self-organizing neural network model was developed to unify the different thought processes into a single neurocomputational substrate. Simulations were performed varying the dopaminergic modulation and observing the different patterns that emerged at the semantic map. Assuming that the thought process is the total pattern elicited at the output layer of the neural network, the model shows how the normal and abnormal thinking are generated and that there are no borders between their different manifestations. Actually, a continuum of different qualitative reasoning, ranging from delusion to disorganization of thought, and passing through the normal and the creative thinking, seems to be more plausible. The model is far from explaining the complexities of human thinking but, at least, it seems to be a good metaphorical and unifying view of the many facets of this phenomenon usually studied in separated settings.

Performance and Scalability Models for a Hypergrowth e-Commerce Web Site

The performance of successful Web-based e-commerce services has all the allure of a roller-coaster ride: accelerated fiscal growth combined with the ever-present danger of running out of server capacity. This chapter presents a case study based on the author's own capacity planning engagement with one of the hottest e-commerce Web sites in the world. Several spreadsheet techniques are presented for forecasting both short-term and long-term trends in the consumption of server capacity. Two new performance metrics are introduced for site planning and procurement: the effective demand, and the doubling period.

Automatic Differentiation Tools in Optimization Software

We discuss the role of automatic differentiation tools in optimization software. We emphasize issues that are important to large-scale optimization and that have proved useful in the installation of nonlinear solvers in the NEOS Server. Our discussion centers on the computation of the gradient and Hessian matrix for partially separable functions and shows that the gradient and Hessian matrix can be computed with guaranteed bounds in time and memory requirements

Automated Debugging In Java Using OCL And JDI

Correctness constraints provide a foundation for automated debugging within object-oriented systems. This paper discusses a new approach to incorporating correctness constraints into Java development environments. Our approach uses the Object Constraint Language ("OCL") as a specification language and the Java Debug Interface ("JDI") as a verification API. OCL provides a standard language for expressing object-oriented constraints that can integrate with Unified Modeling Language ("UML") software models. JDI provides a standard Java API capable of supporting type-safe and side effect free runtime constraint evaluation. The resulting correctness constraint mechanism: (1) entails no programming language modifications; (2) requires neither access nor changes to existing source code; and (3) works with standard off-the-shelf Java virtual machines ("VMs"). A prototype correctness constraint auditor is presented to demonstrate the utility of this mechanism for purposes of automated debugging.

Decomposing Finite Abelian Groups

This paper describes a quantum algorithm for efficiently decomposing finite Abelian groups. Such a decomposition is needed in order to apply the Abelian hidden subgroup algorithm. Such a decomposition (assuming the Generalized Riemann Hypothesis) also leads to an efficient algorithm for computing class numbers (known to be at least as difficult as factoring).

Slicing Event Traces of Large Software Systems

Debugging of large software systems consisting of many processes accessing shared resources is a very difficult task. Many commercial systems record essential events during system execution for post-mortem analysis. However, the event traces of large and long-running systems can be quite voluminous. Analysis of such event traces to identify sources of incorrect behavior can be very tedious, error-prone, and inefficient. In this paper, we propose a novel technique of slicing event traces as a means of reducing the number of events for analysis. This technique identifies events that may have influenced observed incorrect system behavior. In order to recognize influencing events several types of dependencies between events are identified. These dependencies are determined automatically from an event trace. In order to improve the precision of slicing we propose to use additional dependencies, referred to as cause-effect dependencies, which can further reduce the size of sliced event traces. Our initial experience has shown that this slicing technique can significantly reduce the size of event traces for analysis.

Optimal Moebius Transformations for Information Visualization and Meshing

We give linear-time quasiconvex programming algorithms for finding a Moebius transformation of a set of spheres in a unit ball or on the surface of a unit sphere that maximizes the minimum size of a transformed sphere. We can also use similar methods to maximize the minimum distance among a set of pairs of input points. We apply these results to vertex separation and symmetry display in spherical graph drawing, viewpoint selection in hyperbolic browsing, element size control in conformal structured mesh generation, and brain flat mapping.

Assertion checker for the C programming language based on computations over event traces

This paper suggests an approach to the development of software testing and debugging automation tools based on precise program behavior models. The program behavior model is defined as a set of events (event trace) with two basic binary relations over events -- precedence and inclusion, and represents the temporal relationship between actions. A language for the computations over event traces is developed that provides a basis for assertion checking, debugging queries, execution profiles, and performance measurements. The approach is nondestructive, since assertion texts are separated from the target program source code and can be maintained independently. Assertions can capture the dynamic properties of a particular target program and can formalize the general knowledge of typical bugs and debugging strategies. An event grammar provides a sound basis for assertion language implementation via target program automatic instrumentation. An implementation architecture and preliminary experiments with a prototype assertion checker for the C programming language are discussed.

Generation of and Debugging with Logical Pre and Postconditions

This paper shows the debugging facilities provided by the SLAM system. The SLAM system includes i) a specification language that integrates algebraic specifications and model-based specifications using the object oriented model. Class operations are defined by using rules each of them with logical pre and postconditions but with a functional flavour. ii) A development environment that, among other features, is able to generate readable code in a high level object oriented language. iii) The generated code includes (part of) the pre and postconditions as assertions, that can be automatically checked in the debug mode execution of programs. We focus on this last aspect.
The SLAM language is expressive enough to describe many useful properties and these properties are translated into a Prolog program that is linked (via an adequate interface) with the user program. The debugging execution of the program interacts with the Prolog engine which is responsible for checking properties.

An Even Faster and More Unifying Algorithm for Comparing Trees via Unbalanced Bipartite Matchings

A widely used method for determining the similarity of two labeled trees is to compute a maximum agreement subtree of the two trees. Previous work on this similarity measure is only concerned with the comparison of labeled trees of two special kinds, namely, uniformly labeled trees (i.e., trees with all their nodes labeled by the same symbol) and evolutionary trees (i.e., leaf-labeled trees with distinct symbols for distinct leaves). This paper presents an algorithm for comparing trees that are labeled in an arbitrary manner. In addition to this generality, this algorithm is faster than the previous algorithms.
Another contribution of this paper is on maximum weight bipartite matchings. We show how to speed up the best known matching algorithms when the input graphs are node-unbalanced or weight-unbalanced. Based on these enhancements, we obtain an efficient algorithm for a new matching problem called the hierarchical bipartite matching problem, which is at the core of our maximum agreement subtree algorithm.

Multiple-Size Divide-and-Conquer Recurrences

This short note reports a master theorem on tight asymptotic solutions to divide-and-conquer recurrences with more than one recursive term: for example, T(n) = 1/4 T(n/16) + 1/3 T(3n/5) + 4 T(n/100) + 10 T(n/300) + n^2.

Communities of Practice in the Distributed International Environment

Modern commercial organisations are facing pressures which have caused them to lose personnel. When they lose people, they also lose their knowledge. Organisations also have to cope with the internationalisation of business forcing collaboration and knowledge sharing across time and distance. Knowledge Management (KM) claims to tackle these issues. This paper looks at an area where KM does not offer sufficient support, that is, the sharing of knowledge that is not easy to articulate.
The focus in this paper is on Communities of Practice in commercial organisations. We do this by exploring knowledge sharing in Lave and Wenger's [1] theory of Communities of Practice and investigating how Communities of Practice may translate to a distributed international environment. The paper reports on two case studies that explore the functioning of Communities of Practice across international boundaries.

A Classification of Symbolic Transition Systems

We define five increasingly comprehensive classes of infinite-state systems, called STS1--5, whose state spaces have finitary structure. For four of these classes, we provide examples from hybrid systems.

On the problem of computing the well-founded semantics

The well-founded semantics is one of the most widely studied and used semantics of logic programs with negation. In the case of finite propositional programs, it can be computed in polynomial time, more specifically, in O(|At(P)|size(P)) steps, where size(P) denotes the total number of occurrences of atoms in a logic program P. This bound is achieved by an algorithm introduced by Van Gelder and known as the alternating-fixpoint algorithm. Improving on the alternating-fixpoint algorithm turned out to be difficult. In this paper we study extensions and modifications of the alternating-fixpoint approach. We then restrict our attention to the class of programs whose rules have no more than one positive occurrence of an atom in their bodies. For programs in that class we propose a new implementation of the alternating-fixpoint method in which false atoms are computed in a top-down fashion. We show that our algorithm is faster than other known algorithms and that for a wide class of programs it is linear and so, asymptotically optimal.

Combinatorial Toolbox for Protein Sequence Design and Landscape Analysis in the Grand Canonical Model

In modern biology, one of the most important research problems is to understand how protein sequences fold into their native 3D structures. To investigate this problem at a high level, one wishes to analyze the protein landscapes, i.e., the structures of the space of all protein sequences and their native 3D structures. Perhaps the most basic computational problem at this level is to take a target 3D structure as input and design a fittest protein sequence with respect to one or more fitness functions of the target 3D structure. We develop a toolbox of combinatorial techniques for protein landscape analysis in the Grand Canonical model of Sun, Brem, Chan, and Dill. The toolbox is based on linear programming, network flow, and a linear-size representation of all minimum cuts of a network. It not only substantially expands the network flow technique for protein sequence design in Kleinberg's seminal work but also is applicable to a considerably broader collection of computational problems than those considered by Kleinberg. We have used this toolbox to obtain a number of efficient algorithms and hardness results. We have further used the algorithms to analyze 3D structures drawn from the Protein Data Bank and have discovered some novel relationships between such native 3D structures and the Grand Canonical model.

A Dynamic Programming Approach to De Novo Peptide Sequencing via Tandem Mass Spectrometry

The tandem mass spectrometry fragments a large number of molecules of the same peptide sequence into charged prefix and suffix subsequences, and then measures mass/charge ratios of these ions. The de novo peptide sequencing problem is to reconstruct the peptide sequence from a given tandem mass spectral data of k ions. By implicitly transforming the spectral data into an NC-spectrum graph G=(V,E) where |V|=2k+2, we can solve this problem in O(|V|+|E|) time and O(|V|) space using dynamic programming. Our approach can be further used to discover a modified amino acid in O(|V||E|) time and to analyze data with other types of noise in O(|V||E|) time. Our algorithms have been implemented and tested on actual experimental data.

Checking Properties within Fairness and Behavior Abstractions

This paper is motivated by the fact that verifying liveness properties under a fairness condition is often problematic, especially when abstraction is used. It shows that using a more abstract notion than truth under fairness, specifically the concept of a property being satisfied within fairness can lead to interesting possibilities. Technically, it is first established that deciding satisfaction within fairness is a PSPACE-complete problem and it is shown that properties satisfied within fairness can always be satisfied by some fair implementation. Thereafter, the interaction between behavior abstraction and satisfaction within fairness is studied and it is proved that satisfaction of properties within fairness can be verified on behavior abstractions, if the abstraction homomorphism is weakly continuation-closed.

GPCG: A Case Study in the Performance and Scalability of Optimization Algorithms

GPCG is an algorithm within the Toolkit for Advanced Optimization (TAO) for solving bound constrained, convex quadratic problems. Originally developed by More' and Toraldo, this algorithm was designed for large-scale problems but had been implemented only for a single processor. The TAO implementation is available for a wide range of high-performance architecture, and has been tested on up to 64 processors to solve problems with over 2.5 million variables.

More Robust Multiparty Protocols with Oblivious Transfer

With oblivious transfer multiparty protocols become possible even in the presence of a faulty majority. But all known protocols can be aborted by just one disruptor.
This paper presents more robust solutions for multiparty protocols with oblivious transfer. This additional robustness against disruptors weakens the security of the protocol and the guarantee that the result is correct. We can observe a trade off between robustness against disruption and security and correctness.
We give an application to quantum multiparty protocols. These allow the implementation of oblivious transfer and the protocols of this paper relative to temporary assumptions, i.e., the security increases after the termination of the protocol.

A Fast General Methodology for Information-Theoretically Optimal Encodings of Graphs

We propose a fast methodology for encoding graphs with information-theoretically minimum numbers of bits. Specifically, a graph with property pi is called a pi-graph. If pi satisfies certain properties, then an n-node m-edge pi-graph G can be encoded by a binary string X such that (1) G and X can be obtained from each other in O(n log n) time, and (2) X has at most beta(n)+o(beta(n)) bits for any continuous super-additive function beta(n) so that there are at most 2^{beta(n)+o(beta(n))} distinct n-node pi-graphs. The methodology is applicable to general classes of graphs; this paper focuses on planar graphs. Examples of such pi include all conjunctions over the following groups of properties: (1) G is a planar graph or a plane graph; (2) G is directed or undirected; (3) G is triangulated, triconnected, biconnected, merely connected, or not required to be connected; (4) the nodes of G are labeled with labels from {1, ..., ell_1} for ell_1 <= n; (5) the edges of G are labeled with labels from {1, ..., ell_2} for ell_2 <= m; and (6) each node (respectively, edge) of G has at most ell_3 = O(1) self-loops (respectively, ell_4 = O(1) multiple edges). Moreover, ell_3 and ell_4 are not required to be O(1) for the cases of pi being a plane triangulation. These examples are novel applications of small cycle separators of planar graphs and are the only nontrivial classes of graphs, other than rooted trees, with known polynomial-time information-theoretically optimal coding schemes.

Semantics and Termination of Simply-Moded Logic Programs with Dynamic Scheduling

In logic programming, dynamic scheduling refers to a situation where the selection of the atom in each resolution (computation) step is determined at runtime, as opposed to a fixed selection rule such as the left-to-right one of Prolog. This has applications e.g. in parallel programming. A mechanism to control dynamic scheduling is provided in existing languages in the form of delay declarations.
Input-consuming derivations were introduced to describe dynamic scheduling while abstracting from the technical details. In this paper, we first formalise the relationship between delay declarations and input-consuming derivations, showing in many cases a one-to-one correspondence. Then, we define a model-theoretic semantics for input-consuming derivations of simply-moded programs. Finally, for this class of programs, we provide a necessary and sufficient criterion for termination.

Properties of Input-Consuming Derivations

We study the properties of input-consuming derivations of moded logic programs. Input-consuming derivations can be used to model the behavior of logic programs using dynamic scheduling and employing constructs such as delay declarations.
We consider the class of nicely-moded programs and queries. We show that for these programs a weak version of the well-known switching lemma holds also for input-consuming derivations. Furthermore, we show that, under suitable conditions, there exists an algebraic characterization of termination of input-consuming derivations.

On-Line Difference Maximization

In this paper we examine problems motivated by on-line financial problems and stochastic games. In particular, we consider a sequence of entirely arbitrary distinct values arriving in random order, and must devise strategies for selecting low values followed by high values in such a way as to maximize the expected gain in rank from low values to high values.
First, we consider a scenario in which only one low value and one high value may be selected. We give an optimal on-line algorithm for this scenario, and analyze it to show that, surprisingly, the expected gain is n-O(1), and so differs from the best possible off-line gain by only a constant additive term (which is, in fact, fairly small -- at most 15).
In a second scenario, we allow multiple nonoverlapping low/high selections, where the total gain for our algorithm is the sum of the individual pair gains. We also give an optimal on-line algorithm for this problem, where the expected gain is n^2/8-Θ(n\log n). An analysis shows that the optimal expected off-line gain is n^2/6+Θ(1), so the performance of our on-line algorithm is within a factor of 3/4 of the best off-line strategy.

Decomposing Non-Redundant Sharing by Complementation

Complementation, the inverse of the reduced product operation, is a technique for systematically finding minimal decompositions of abstract domains. File' and Ranzato advanced the state of the art by introducing a simple method for computing a complement. As an application, they considered the extraction by complementation of the pair-sharing domain PS from the Jacobs and Langen's set-sharing domain SH. However, since the result of this operation was still SH, they concluded that PS was too abstract for this. Here, we show that the source of this result lies not with PS but with SH and, more precisely, with the redundant information contained in SH with respect to ground-dependencies and pair-sharing. In fact, a proper decomposition is obtained if the non-redundant version of SH, PSD, is substituted for SH. To establish the results for PSD, we define a general schema for subdomains of SH that includes PSD and Def as special cases. This sheds new light on the structure of PSD and exposes a natural though unexpected connection between Def and PSD. Moreover, we substantiate the claim that complementation alone is not sufficient to obtain truly minimal decompositions of domains. The right solution to this problem is to first remove redundancies by computing the quotient of the domain with respect to the observable behavior, and only then decompose it by complementation.

Deterministic computations whose history is independent of the order of asynchronous updating

Consider a network of processors (sites) in which each site x has a finite set N(x) of neighbors. There is a transition function f that for each site x computes the next state ξ(x) from the states in N(x). But these transitions (updates) are applied in arbitrary order, one or many at a time. If the state of site x at time t is η(x,t) then let us define the sequence ζ(x,0), ζ(x,1), ... by taking the sequence η(x,0), η(x,1), ..., and deleting repetitions. The function f is said to have invariant histories if the sequence ζ(x,i), (while it lasts, in case it is finite) depends only on the initial configuration, not on the order of updates.
This paper shows that though the invariant history property is typically undecidable, there is a useful simple sufficient condition, called commutativity: For any configuration, for any pair x,y of neighbors, if the updating would change both ξ(x) and ξ(y) then the result of updating first x and then y is the same as the result of doing this in the reverse order.

Open Archives Initiative protocol development and implementation at arXiv

I outline the involvement of the Los Alamos e-print archive (arXiv) within the Open Archives Initiative (OAI) and describe the implementation of the data provider side of the OAI protocol v1.0. I highlight the ways in which we map the existing structure of arXiv onto elements of the protocol.

Optimal Constructions of Hybrid Algorithms

We study on-line strategies for solving problems with hybrid algorithms. There is a problem Q and w basic algorithms for solving Q. For some lambda <= w, we have a computer with lambda disjoint memory areas, each of which can be used to run a basic algorithm and store its intermediate results. In the worst case, only one basic algorithm can solve Q in finite time, and all the other basic algorithms run forever without solving Q. To solve Q with a hybrid algorithm constructed from the basic algorithms, we run a basic algorithm for some time, then switch to another, and continue this process until Q is solved. The goal is to solve Q in the least amount of time. Using competitive ratios to measure the efficiency of a hybrid algorithm, we construct an optimal deterministic hybrid algorithm and an efficient randomized hybrid algorithm. This resolves an open question on searching with multiple robots posed by Baeza-Yates, Culberson and Rawlins. We also prove that our randomized algorithm is optimal for lambda = 1, settling a conjecture of Kao, Reif and Tate.

Tap Tips: Lightweight Discovery of Touchscreen Targets

We describe tap tips, a technique for providing touch-screen target location hints. Tap tips are lightweight in that they are non-modal, appear only when needed, require a minimal number of user gestures, and do not add to the standard touchscreen gesture vocabulary. We discuss our implementation of tap tips in an electronic guidebook system and some usability test results.

Tree Contractions and Evolutionary Trees

An evolutionary tree is a rooted tree where each internal vertex has at least two children and where the leaves are labeled with distinct symbols representing species. Evolutionary trees are useful for modeling the evolutionary history of species. An agreement subtree of two evolutionary trees is an evolutionary tree which is also a topological subtree of the two given trees. We give an algorithm to determine the largest possible number of leaves in any agreement subtree of two trees T_1 and T_2 with n leaves each. If the maximum degree d of these trees is bounded by a constant, the time complexity is O(n log^2(n)) and is within a log(n) factor of optimal. For general d, this algorithm runs in O(n d^2 log(d) log^2(n)) time or alternatively in O(n d sqrt(d) log^3(n)) time.

Cavity Matchings, Label Compressions, and Unrooted Evolutionary Trees

We present an algorithm for computing a maximum agreement subtree of two unrooted evolutionary trees. It takes O(n^{1.5} log n) time for trees with unbounded degrees, matching the best known time complexity for the rooted case. Our algorithm allows the input trees to be mixed trees, i.e., trees that may contain directed and undirected edges at the same time. Our algorithm adopts a recursive strategy exploiting a technique called label compression. The backbone of this technique is an algorithm that computes the maximum weight matchings over many subgraphs of a bipartite graph as fast as it takes to compute a single matching.

Total Protection of Analytic Invariant Information in Cross Tabulated Tables

To protect sensitive information in a cross tabulated table, it is a common practice to suppress some of the cells in the table. An analytic invariant is a power series in terms of the suppressed cells that has a unique feasible value and a convergence radius equal to +\infty. Intuitively, the information contained in an invariant is not protected even though the values of the suppressed cells are not disclosed. This paper gives an optimal linear-time algorithm for testing whether there exist nontrivial analytic invariants in terms of the suppressed cells in a given set of suppressed cells. This paper also presents NP-completeness results and an almost linear-time algorithm for the problem of suppressing the minimum number of cells in addition to the sensitive ones so that the resulting table does not leak analytic invariant information about a given set of suppressed cells.

Linear-Time Succinct Encodings of Planar Graphs via Canonical Orderings

Let G be an embedded planar undirected graph that has n vertices, m edges, and f faces but has no self-loop or multiple edge. If G is triangulated, we can encode it using {4/3}m-1 bits, improving on the best previous bound of about 1.53m bits. In case exponential time is acceptable, roughly 1.08m bits have been known to suffice. If G is triconnected, we use at most (2.5+2\log{3})\min\{n,f\}-7 bits, which is at most 2.835m bits and smaller than the best previous bound of 3m bits. Both of our schemes take O(n) time for encoding and decoding.

Data Security Equals Graph Connectivity

To protect sensitive information in a cross tabulated table, it is a common practice to suppress some of the cells in the table. This paper investigates four levels of data security of a two-dimensional table concerning the effectiveness of this practice. These four levels of data security protect the information contained in, respectively, individual cells, individual rows and columns, several rows or columns as a whole, and a table as a whole. The paper presents efficient algorithms and NP-completeness results for testing and achieving these four levels of data security. All these complexity results are obtained by means of fundamental equivalences between the four levels of data security of a table and four types of connectivity of a graph constructed from that table.

The Guidebook, the Friend, and the Room: Visitor Experience in a Historic House

In this paper, we describe an electronic guidebook prototype and report on a study of its use in a historic house. Supported by mechanisms in the guidebook, visitors constructed experiences that had a high degree of interaction with three entities: the guidebook, their companions, and the house and its contents. For example, we found that most visitors played audio descriptions played through speakers (rather than using headphones or reading textual descriptions) to facilitate communication with their companions.

The Generalized Universal Law of Generalization

It has been argued by Shepard that there is a robust psychological law that relates the distance between a pair of items in psychological space and the probability that they will be confused with each other. Specifically, the probability of confusion is a negative exponential function of the distance between the pair of items. In experimental contexts, distance is typically defined in terms of a multidimensional Euclidean space-but this assumption seems unlikely to hold for complex stimuli. We show that, nonetheless, the Universal Law of Generalization can be derived in the more complex setting of arbitrary stimuli, using a much more universal measure of distance. This universal distance is defined as the length of the shortest program that transforms the representations of the two items of interest into one another: the algorithmic information distance. It is universal in the sense that it minorizes every computable distance: it is the smallest computable distance. We show that the universal law of generalization holds with probability going to one-provided the confusion probabilities are computable. We also give a mathematically more appealing form

Benchmarking Optimization Software with Performance Profiles

We propose performance profiles-distribution functions for a performance metric-as a tool for benchmarking and comparing optimization software. We show that performance profiles combine the best features of other tools for performance evaluation.

On the Automated Classification of Web Sites

In this paper we discuss several issues related to automated text classification of web sites. We analyze the nature of web content and metadata in relation to requirements for text features. We find that HTML metatags are a good source of text features, but are not in wide use despite their role in search engine rankings. We present an approach for targeted spidering including metadata extraction and opportunistic crawling of specific semantic hyperlinks. We describe a system for automatically classifying web sites into industry categories and present performance results based on different combinations of text features and training data. This system can serve as the basis for a generalized framework for automated metadata creation.

Fast Pricing of European Asian Options with Provable Accuracy: Single-stock and Basket Options

This paper develops three polynomial-time pricing techniques for European Asian options with provably small errors, where the stock prices follow binomial trees or trees of higher-degree. The first technique is the first known Monte Carlo algorithm with analytical error bounds suitable for pricing single-stock options with meaningful confidence and speed. The second technique is a general recursive bucketing-based scheme that can use the Aingworth-Motwani-Oldham aggregation algorithm, Monte-Carlo simulation and possibly others as the base-case subroutine. This scheme enables robust trade-offs between accuracy and time over subtrees of different sizes. For long-term options or high frequency price averaging, it can price single-stock options with smaller errors in less time than the base-case algorithms themselves. The third technique combines Fast Fourier Transform with bucketing-based schemes for pricing basket options. This technique takes polynomial time in the number of days and the number of stocks, and does not add any errors to those already incurred in the companion bucketing scheme. This technique assumes that the price of each underlying stock moves independently.

Computational Geometry Column 41

The recent result that n congruent balls in R^d have at most 4 distinct geometric permutations is described.

Compact Encodings of Planar Graphs via Canonical Orderings and Multiple Parentheses

Let G be a plane graph of n nodes, m edges, f faces, and no self-loop. G need not be connected or simple (i.e., free of multiple edges). We give three sets of coding schemes for G which all take O(m+n) time for encoding and decoding. Our schemes employ new properties of canonical orderings for planar graphs and new techniques of processing strings of multiple types of parentheses.
For applications that need to determine in O(1) time the adjacency of two nodes and the degree of a node, we use 2m+(5+1/k)n + o(m+n) bits for any constant k > 0 while the best previous bound by Munro and Raman is 2m+8n + o(m+n). If G is triconnected or triangulated, our bit count decreases to 2m+3n + o(m+n) or 2m+2n + o(m+n), respectively. If G is simple, our bit count is (5/3)m+(5+1/k)n + o(n) for any constant k > 0. Thus, if a simple G is also triconnected or triangulated, then 2m+2n + o(n) or 2m+n + o(n) bits suffice, respectively.
If only adjacency queries are supported, the bit counts for a general G and a simple G become 2m+(14/3)n + o(m+n) and (4/3)m+5n + o(n), respectively.
If we only need to reconstruct G from its code, a simple and triconnected G uses roughly 2.38m + O(1) bits while the best previous bound by He, Kao, and Lu is 2.84m.

Common-Face Embeddings of Planar Graphs

Given a planar graph G and a sequence C_1,...,C_q, where each C_i is a family of vertex subsets of G, we wish to find a plane embedding of G, if any exists, such that for each i in {1,...,q}, there is a face F_i in the embedding whose boundary contains at least one vertex from each set in C_i. This problem has applications to the recovery of topological information from geographical data and the design of constrained layouts in VLSI. Let I be the input size, i.e., the total number of vertices and edges in G and the families C_i, counting multiplicity. We show that this problem is NP-complete in general. We also show that it is solvable in O(I log I) time for the special case where for each input family C_i, each set in C_i induces a connected subgraph of the input graph G. Note that the classical problem of simply finding a planar embedding is a further special case of this case with q=0. Therefore, the processing of the additional constraints C_1,...,C_q only incurs a logarithmic factor of overhead.

Optimal Bid Sequences for Multiple-Object Auctions with Unequal Budgets

In a multiple-object auction, every bidder tries to win as many objects as possible with a bidding algorithm. This paper studies position-randomized auctions, which form a special class of multiple-object auctions where a bidding algorithm consists of an initial bid sequence and an algorithm for randomly permuting the sequence. We are especially concerned with situations where some bidders know the bidding algorithms of others. For the case of only two bidders, we give an optimal bidding algorithm for the disadvantaged bidder. Our result generalizes previous work by allowing the bidders to have unequal budgets. One might naturally anticipate that the optimal expected numbers of objects won by the bidders would be proportional to their budgets. Surprisingly, this is not true. Our new algorithm runs in optimal O(n) time in a straightforward manner. The case with more than two bidders is open.

Optimal Augmentation for Bipartite Componentwise Biconnectivity in Linear Time

A graph is componentwise biconnected if every connected component either is an isolated vertex or is biconnected. We present a linear-time algorithm for the problem of adding the smallest number of edges to make a bipartite graph componentwise biconnected while preserving its bipartiteness. This algorithm has immediate applications for protecting sensitive information in statistical tables.

The Enhanced Double Digest Problem for DNA Physical Mapping

The double digest problem is a common NP-hard approach to constructing physical maps of DNA sequences. This paper presents a new approach called the enhanced double digest problem. Although this new problem is also NP-hard, it can be solved in linear time in certain theoretically interesting cases.

A Price Dynamics in Bandwidth Markets for Point-to-point Connections

We simulate a network of N routers and M network users making concurrent point-to-point connections by buying and selling router capacity from each other. The resources need to be acquired in complete sets, but there is only one spot market for each router. In order to describe the internal dynamics of the market, we model the observed prices by N-dimensional Ito-processes. Modeling using stochastic processes is novel in this context of describing interactions between end-users in a system with shared resources, and allows a standard set of mathematical tools to be applied. The derived models can also be used to price contingent claims on network capacity and thus to price complex network services such as quality of service levels, multicast, etc.

Chaos for Stream Cipher

This paper discusses mixing of chaotic systems as a dependable method for secure communication. Distribution of the entropy function for steady state as well as plaintext input sequences are analyzed. It is shown that the mixing of chaotic sequences results in a sequence that does not have any state dependence on the information encrypted by them. The generated output states of such a cipher approach the theoretical maximum for both complexity measures and cycle length. These features are then compared with some popular ciphers.

Quantum Multi-Prover Interactive Proof Systems with Limited Prior Entanglement

This paper gives the first formal treatment of a quantum analogue of multi-prover interactive proof systems. It is proved that the class of languages having quantum multi-prover interactive proof systems is necessarily contained in NEXP, under the assumption that provers are allowed to share at most polynomially many prior-entangled qubits. This implies that, in particular, if provers do not share any prior entanglement with each other, the class of languages having quantum multi-prover interactive proof systems is equal to NEXP. Related to these, it is shown that, in the case a prover does not have his private qubits, the class of languages having quantum single-prover interactive proof systems is also equal to NEXP.

On the predictability of Rainfall in Kerala- An application of ABF Neural Network

Rainfall in Kerala State, the southern part of Indian Peninsula in particular is caused by the two monsoons and the two cyclones every year. In general, climate and rainfall are highly nonlinear phenomena in nature giving rise to what is known as the `butterfly effect'. We however attempt to train an ABF neural network on the time series rainfall data and show for the first time that in spite of the fluctuations resulting from the nonlinearity in the system, the trends in the rainfall pattern in this corner of the globe have remained unaffected over the past 87 years from 1893 to 1980. We also successfully filter out the chaotic part of the system and illustrate that its effects are marginal over long term predictions.

A Scientific Data Management System for Irregular Applications

Many scientific applications are I/O intensive and generate or access large data sets, spanning hundreds or thousands of "files." Management, storage, efficient access, and analysis of this data present an extremely challenging task. We have developed a software system, called Scientific Data Manager (SDM), that uses a combination of parallel file I/O and database support for high-performance scientific data management. SDM provides a high-level API to the user and internally, uses a parallel file system to store real data and a database to store application-related metadata. In this paper, we describe how we designed and implemented SDM to support irregular applications. SDM can efficiently handle the reading and writing of data in an irregular mesh as well as the distribution of index values. We describe the SDM user interface and how we implemented it to achieve high performance. SDM makes extensive use of MPI-IO's noncontiguous collective I/O functions. SDM also uses the concept of a history file to optimize the cost of the index distribution using the metadata stored in the database. We present performance results with two irregular applications, a CFD code called FUN3D and a Rayleigh-Taylor instability code, on the SGI Origin2000 at Argonne National Laboratory.

Components and Interfaces of a Process Management System for Parallel Programs

Parallel jobs are different from sequential jobs and require a different type of process management. We present here a process management system for parallel programs such as those written using MPI. A primary goal of the system, which we call MPD (for multipurpose daemon), is to be scalable. By this we mean that startup of interactive parallel jobs comprising thousands of processes is quick, that signals can be quickly delivered to processes, and that stdin, stdout, and stderr are managed intuitively. Our primary target is parallel machines made up of clusters of SMPs, but the system is also useful in more tightly integrated environments. We describe how MPD enables much faster startup and better runtime management of parallel jobs. We show how close control of stdio can support the easy implementation of a number of convenient system utilities, even a parallel debugger. We describe a simple but general interface that can be used to separate any process manager from a parallel library, which we use to keep MPD separate from MPICH.

An effective Procedure for Speeding up Algorithms

The provably asymptotically fastest algorithm within a factor of 5 for formally described problems will be constructed. The main idea is to enumerate all programs provably equivalent to the original problem by enumerating all proofs. The algorithm could be interpreted as a generalization and improvement of Levin search, which is, within a multiplicative constant, the fastest algorithm for inverting functions. Blum's speed-up theorem is avoided by taking into account only programs for which a correctness proof exists. Furthermore, it is shown that the fastest program that computes a certain function is also one of the shortest programs provably computing this function. To quantify this statement, the definition of Kolmogorov complexity is extended, and two new natural measures for the complexity of a function are defined.

Easy and Hard Constraint Ranking in OT: Algorithms and Complexity

We consider the problem of ranking a set of OT constraints in a manner consistent with data.
We speed up Tesar and Smolensky's RCD algorithm to be linear on the number of constraints. This finds a ranking so each attested form x_i beats or ties a particular competitor y_i. We also generalize RCD so each x_i beats or ties all possible competitors.
Alas, this more realistic version of learning has no polynomial algorithm unless P=NP! Indeed, not even generation does. So one cannot improve qualitatively upon brute force:
Merely checking that a single (given) ranking is consistent with given forms is coNP-complete if the surface forms are fully observed and Delta_2^p-complete if not. Indeed, OT generation is OptP-complete. As for ranking, determining whether any consistent ranking exists is coNP-hard (but in Delta_2^p) if the forms are fully observed, and Sigma_2^p-complete if not.
Finally, we show that generation and ranking are easier in derivational theories: in P, and NP-complete.

Multi-Syllable Phonotactic Modelling

This paper describes a novel approach to constructing phonotactic models. The underlying theoretical approach to phonological description is the multisyllable approach in which multiple syllable classes are defined that reflect phonotactically idiosyncratic syllable subcategories. A new finite-state formalism, OFS Modelling, is used as a tool for encoding, automatically constructing and generalising phonotactic descriptions. Language-independent prototype models are constructed which are instantiated on the basis of data sets of phonological strings, and generalised with a clustering algorithm. The resulting approach enables the automatic construction of phonotactic models that encode arbitrarily close approximations of a language's set of attested phonological forms. The approach is applied to the construction of multi-syllable word-level phonotactic models for German, English and Dutch.

Taking Primitive Optimality Theory Beyond the Finite State

Primitive Optimality Theory (OTP) (Eisner, 1997a; Albro, 1998), a computational model of Optimality Theory (Prince and Smolensky, 1993), employs a finite state machine to represent the set of active candidates at each stage of an Optimality Theoretic derivation, as well as weighted finite state machines to represent the constraints themselves. For some purposes, however, it would be convenient if the set of candidates were limited by some set of criteria capable of being described only in a higher-level grammar formalism, such as a Context Free Grammar, a Context Sensitive Grammar, or a Multiple Context Free Grammar (Seki et al., 1991). Examples include reduplication and phrasal stress models. Here we introduce a mechanism for OTP-like Optimality Theory in which the constraints remain weighted finite state machines, but sets of candidates are represented by higher-level grammars. In particular, we use multiple context-free grammars to model reduplication in the manner of Correspondence Theory (McCarthy and Prince, 1995), and develop an extended version of the Earley Algorithm (Earley, 1970) to apply the constraints to a reduplicating candidate set.

Finite-State Phonology: Proceedings of the 5th Workshop of the ACL Special Interest Group in Computational Phonology (SIGPHON)

Home page of the workshop proceedings, with pointers to the individually archived papers. Includes front matter from the printed version of the proceedings.

P-Immune Sets with Holes Lack Self-Reducibility Properties

No P-immune set having exponential gaps is positive-Turing self-reducible.

An Effective Fixpoint Semantics for Linear Logic Programs

In this paper we investigate the theoretical foundation of a new bottom-up semantics for linear logic programs, and more precisely for the fragment of LinLog that consists of the language LO enriched with the constant 1. We use constraints to symbolically and finitely represent possibly infinite collections of provable goals. We define a fixpoint semantics based on a new operator in the style of Tp working over constraints. An application of the fixpoint operator can be computed algorithmically. As sufficient conditions for termination, we show that the fixpoint computation is guaranteed to converge for propositional LO. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to define an effective fixpoint semantics for linear logic programs. As an application of our framework, we also present a formal investigation of the relations between LO and Disjunctive Logic Programming. Using an approach based on abstract interpretation, we show that DLP fixpoint semantics can be viewed as an abstraction of our semantics for LO. We prove that the resulting abstraction is correct and complete for an interesting class of LO programs encoding Petri Nets.

Mathematical Model of Word Length on the Basis of the Cebanov-Fucks Distribution with Uniform Parameter Distribution

The data on 13 typologically different languages have been processed using a two-parameter word length model, based on 1-displaced uniform Poisson distribution. Statistical dependencies of the 2nd parameter on the 1st one are revealed for the German texts and genre of letters.

Gene Expression Programming: a New Adaptive Algorithm for Solving Problems

Gene expression programming, a genotype/phenotype genetic algorithm (linear and ramified), is presented here for the first time as a new technique for the creation of computer programs. Gene expression programming uses character linear chromosomes composed of genes structurally organized in a head and a tail. The chromosomes function as a genome and are subjected to modification by means of mutation, transposition, root transposition, gene transposition, gene recombination, and one- and two-point recombination. The chromosomes encode expression trees which are the object of selection. The creation of these separate entities (genome and expression tree) with distinct functions allows the algorithm to perform with high efficiency that greatly surpasses existing adaptive techniques. The suite of problems chosen to illustrate the power and versatility of gene expression programming includes symbolic regression, sequence induction with and without constant creation, block stacking, cellular automata rules for the density-classification problem, and two problems of boolean concept learning: the 11-multiplexer and the GP rule problem.

Communities of Practice: Going Virtual

With the current trends towards downsizing, outsourcing and globalisation, modern organisations are reducing the numbers of people they employ. In addition, organisations now have to cope with the increasing internationalisation of business forcing collaboration and knowledge sharing across time and distance simultaneously. There is a need for new ways of thinking about how knowledge is shared in distributed groups. In this paper we explore a relatively new approach to knowledge sharing using Lave and Wenger's (1991) theory of Communities of Practice (CoPs). We investigate whether CoPs might translate to a geographically distributed international environment through a case study that explores the functioning of a CoP across national boundaries.

Computer based Information Systems and Managers' Work

This paper identifies three categories of model: the Technology Impact Model; the Social Impact Model and the Integrationist Model, which imply different views of the "impact" of Information Technology on work organisation. These models are used to structure data from case studies conducted by the authors to explore the implications of the use of computer-based information systems for managers' work. The paper argues that the "impact" of information systems is not a single stable and predictable outcome but a non-linear ongoing process that changes and evolves over time. It also argues that the actions of individuals and groups within an organisation are not wholly determined by outside forces: people can and do react to, and shape, systems in different ways. In this sense, the "impact" of computer-based information systems on managers' work reflects decisions made by managers themselves about how the technology is used.

Soundness, Idempotence and Commutativity of Set-Sharing

It is important that practical data-flow analyzers are backed by reliably proven theoretical results. Abstract interpretation provides a sound mathematical framework and necessary generic properties for an abstract domain to be well-defined and sound with respect to the concrete semantics. In logic programming, the abstract domain Sharing is a standard choice for sharing analysis for both practical work and further theoretical study. In spite of this, we found that there were no satisfactory proofs for the key properties of commutativity and idempotence that are essential for Sharing to be well-defined and that published statements of the soundness of Sharing assume the occurs-check. This paper provides a generalization of the abstraction function for Sharing that can be applied to any language, with or without the occurs-check. Results for soundness, idempotence and commutativity for abstract unification using this abstraction function are proven.

Construction of an algorithm in parallel for the Fast Fourier Transform

It has been designed,built and executed a code for the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT),compiled and executed in a cluster of 2^n computers under the operating system MacOS and using the routines MacMPI. As practical application,the code has been used to obtain the transformed from an astronomic imagen,to execute a filter on its and with a transformed inverse to recover the image with the variates given by the filter.The computers arrangement are installed in the Observatorio Astronomico National in Colombia under the name OAN Cluster and in this has been executed several applications.

Quantitative Neural Network Model of the Tip-of-the-Tongue Phenomenon Based on Synthesized Memory-Psycholinguistic-Metacognitive Approach

A new three-stage computer artificial neural network model of the tip-of-the-tongue phenomenon is proposed. Each word's node is build from some interconnected learned auto-associative two-layer neural networks each of which represents separate word's semantic, lexical, or phonological components. The model synthesizes memory, psycholinguistic, and metamemory approaches, bridges speech errors and naming chronometry research traditions, and can explain quantitatively many tip-of-the-tongue effects.

Learning Policies with External Memory

In order for an agent to perform well in partially observable domains, it is usually necessary for actions to depend on the history of observations. In this paper, we explore a {\it stigmergic} approach, in which the agent's actions include the ability to set and clear bits in an external memory, and the external memory is included as part of the input to the agent. In this case, we need to learn a reactive policy in a highly non-Markovian domain. We explore two algorithms: SARSA(λ), which has had empirical success in partially observable domains, and VAPS, a new algorithm due to Baird and Moore, with convergence guarantees in partially observable domains. We compare the performance of these two algorithms on benchmark problems.

Rapid Application Evolution and Integration Through Document Metamorphosis

The Harland document management system implements a data model in which document (object) structure can be altered by mixin-style multiple inheritance at any time. This kind of structural fluidity has long been supported by knowledge-base management systems, but its use has primarily been in support of reasoning and inference. In this paper, we report our experiences building and supporting several non-trivial applications on top of this data model. Based on these experiences, we argue that structural fluidity is convenient for data-intensive applications other than knowledge-base management. Specifically, we suggest that this flexible data model is a natural fit for the decoupled programming methodology that arises naturally when using enterprise component frameworks.

Source-Filter Decomposition of Harmonic Sounds

This paper describes a method for decomposing steady-state instrument data into excitation and formant filter components. The input data, taken from several series of recordings of acoustical instruments is analyzed in the frequency domain, and for each series a model is built, which most accurately represents the data as a source-filter system. The source part is taken to be a harmonic excitation system with frequency-invariant magnitudes, and the filter part is considered to be responsible for all spectral inhomogenieties. This method has been applied to the SHARC database of steady state instrument data to create source-filter models for a large number of acoustical instruments. Subsequent use of such models can have a wide variety of applications, including improvements to wavetable and physical modeling synthesis, high quality pitch shifting, and creation of "hybrid" instrument timbres.

Flexible Software Framework for Modal Synthesis

Modal synthesis is an important area of physical modeling whose exploration in the past has been held back by a large number of control parameters, the scarcity of general-purpose design tools and the difficulty of obtaining the computational power required for real-time synthesis. This paper presents an overview of a flexible software framework facilitating the design and control of instruments based on modal synthesis. The framework is designed as a hierarchy of polymorphic synthesis objects, representing modal structures of various complexity. As a method of generalizing all interactions among the elements of a modal system, an abstract notion of {\it energy} is introduced, and a set of energy transfer functions is provided. Such abstraction leads to a design where the dynamics of interactions can be largely separated from the specifics of particular modal structures, yielding an easily configurable and expandable system. A real-time version of the framework has been implemented as a set of C++ classes along with an integrating shell and a GUI, and is currently being used to design and play modal instruments, as well as to survey fundamental properties of various modal algorithms.

Two-parameter Model of Word Length "Language - Genre"

A two-parameter model of word length measured by the number of syllables comprising it is proposed. The first parameter is dependent on language type, the second one - on text genre and reflects the degree of completion of synergetic processes of language optimization.

The Limits of Horn Logic Programs

Given a sequence $\{Π_n\}$ of Horn logic programs, the limit $Π$ of $\{Π_n\}$ is the set of the clauses such that every clause in $Π$ belongs to almost every $Π_n$ and every clause in infinitely many $Π_n$'s belongs to $Π$ also. The limit program $Π$ is still Horn but may be infinite. In this paper, we consider if the least Herbrand model of the limit of a given Horn logic program sequence $\{Π_n\}$ equals the limit of the least Herbrand models of each logic program $Π_n$. It is proved that this property is not true in general but holds if Horn logic programs satisfy an assumption which can be syntactically checked and be satisfied by a class of Horn logic programs. Thus, under this assumption we can approach the least Herbrand model of the limit $Π$ by the sequence of the least Herbrand models of each finite program $Π_n$. We also prove that if a finite Horn logic program satisfies this assumption, then the least Herbrand model of this program is recursive. Finally, by use of the concept of stability from dynamical systems, we prove that this assumption is exactly a sufficient condition to guarantee the stability of fixed points for Horn logic programs.

A Machine-Learning Approach to Estimating the Referential Properties of Japanese Noun Phrases

The referential properties of noun phrases in the Japanese language, which has no articles, are useful for article generation in Japanese-English machine translation and for anaphora resolution in Japanese noun phrases. They are generally classified as generic noun phrases, definite noun phrases, and indefinite noun phrases. In the previous work, referential properties were estimated by developing rules that used clue words. If two or more rules were in conflict with each other, the category having the maximum total score given by the rules was selected as the desired category. The score given by each rule was established by hand, so the manpower cost was high. In this work, we automatically adjusted these scores by using a machine-learning method and succeeded in reducing the amount of manpower needed to adjust these scores.

CRL at Ntcir2

We have developed systems of two types for NTCIR2. One is an enhenced version of the system we developed for NTCIR1 and IREX. It submitted retrieval results for JJ and CC tasks. A variety of parameters were tried with the system. It used such characteristics of newspapers as locational information in the CC tasks. The system got good results for both of the tasks. The other system is a portable system which avoids free parameters as much as possible. The system submitted retrieval results for JJ, JE, EE, EJ, and CC tasks. The system automatically determined the number of top documents and the weight of the original query used in automatic-feedback retrieval. It also determined relevant terms quite robustly. For EJ and JE tasks, it used document expansion to augment the initial queries. It achieved good results, except on the CC tasks.

Fitness Uniform Selection to Preserve Genetic Diversity

In evolutionary algorithms, the fitness of a population increases with time by mutating and recombining individuals and by a biased selection of more fit individuals. The right selection pressure is critical in ensuring sufficient optimization progress on the one hand and in preserving genetic diversity to be able to escape from local optima on the other. We propose a new selection scheme, which is uniform in the fitness values. It generates selection pressure towards sparsely populated fitness regions, not necessarily towards higher fitness, as is the case for all other selection schemes. We show that the new selection scheme can be much more effective than standard selection schemes.

Nice point sets can have nasty Delaunay triangulations

We consider the complexity of Delaunay triangulations of sets of points in R^3 under certain practical geometric constraints. The spread of a set of points is the ratio between the longest and shortest pairwise distances. We show that in the worst case, the Delaunay triangulation of n points in R^3 with spread D has complexity Omega(min{D^3, nD, n^2}) and O(min{D^4, n^2}). For the case D = Theta(sqrt{n}), our lower bound construction consists of a uniform sample of a smooth convex surface with bounded curvature. We also construct a family of smooth connected surfaces such that the Delaunay triangulation of any good point sample has near-quadratic complexity.

The Existential Theory of Equations with Rational Constraints in Free Groups is PSPACE-Complete

It is known that the existential theory of equations in free groups is decidable. This is a famous result of Makanin. On the other hand it has been shown that the scheme of his algorithm is not primitive recursive. In this paper we present an algorithm that works in polynomial space, even in the more general setting where each variable has a rational constraint, that is, the solution has to respect a specification given by a regular word language. Our main result states that the existential theory of equations in free groups with rational constraints is PSPACE-complete. We obtain this result as a corollary of the corresponding statement about free monoids with involution.

On the NP-completeness of Finding an Optimal Strategy in Games with Common Payoffs

Consider a very simple class of (finite) games: after an initial move by nature, each player makes one move. Moreover, the players have common interests: at each node, all the players get the same payoff. We show that the problem of determining whether there exists a joint strategy where each player has an expected payoff of at least r is NP-complete as a function of the number of nodes in the extensive-form representation of the game.

Belief Revision: A Critique

We examine carefully the rationale underlying the approaches to belief change taken in the literature, and highlight what we view as methodological problems. We argue that to study belief change carefully, we must be quite explicit about the ``ontology'' or scenario underlying the belief change process. This is something that has been missing in previous work, with its focus on postulates. Our analysis shows that we must pay particular attention to two issues that have often been taken for granted: The first is how we model the agent's epistemic state. (Do we use a set of beliefs, or a richer structure, such as an ordering on worlds? And if we use a set of beliefs, in what language are these beliefs are expressed?) We show that even postulates that have been called ``beyond controversy'' are unreasonable when the agent's beliefs include beliefs about her own epistemic state as well as the external world. The second is the status of observations. (Are observations known to be true, or just believed? In the latter case, how firm is the belief?) Issues regarding the status of observations arise particularly when we consider iterated belief revision, and we must confront the possibility of revising by p and then by not-p.

Quantum Clock Synchronization with one qubit

The clock synchronization problem is to determine the time difference T between two spatially separated parties. We improve on I. Chuang's quantum clock synchronization algorithm and show that it is possible to obtain T to n bits of accuracy while communicating only one qubit in one direction and using an O(2^n) frequency range. We also prove a quantum lower bound of Ω(2^n) for the product of the transmitted qubits and the range of frequencies, thus showing that our algorithm is optimal.

Secure, Efficient Data Transport and Replica Management for High-Performance Data-Intensive Computing

An emerging class of data-intensive applications involve the geographically dispersed extraction of complex scientific information from very large collections of measured or computed data. Such applications arise, for example, in experimental physics, where the data in question is generated by accelerators, and in simulation science, where the data is generated by supercomputers. So-called Data Grids provide essential infrastructure for such applications, much as the Internet provides essential services for applications such as e-mail and the Web. We describe here two services that we believe are fundamental to any Data Grid: reliable, high-speed transporet and replica management. Our high-speed transport service, GridFTP, extends the popular FTP protocol with new features required for Data Grid applciations, such as striping and partial file access. Our replica management service integrates a replica catalog with GridFTP transfers to provide for the creation, registration, location, and management of dataset replicas. We present the design of both services and also preliminary performance results. Our implementations exploit security and other services provided by the Globus Toolkit.

A Dualheap Selection Algorithm - A Call for Analysis

An algorithm is presented that efficiently solves the selection problem: finding the k-th smallest member of a set. Relevant to a divide-and-conquer strategy, the algorithm also partitions a set into small and large valued subsets. Applied recursively, this partitioning results in a sorted set. The algorithm's applicability is therefore much broader than just the selection problem. The presented algorithm is based upon R.W. Floyd's 1964 algorithm that constructs a heap from the bottom-up. Empirically, the presented algorithm's performance appears competitive with the popular quickselect algorithm, a variant of C.A.R. Hoare's 1962 quicksort algorithm. Furthermore, constructing a heap from the bottom-up is an inherently parallel process (processors can work independently and simultaneously on subheap construction), suggesting a performance advantage with parallel implementations. Given the presented algorithm's broad applicability, simplicity, serial performance, and parallel nature, further study is warranted. Specifically, worst-case analysis is an important but still unsolved problem.

Notes on computing peaks in k-levels and parametric spanning trees

We give an algorithm to compute all the local peaks in the $k$-level of an arrangement of $n$ lines in $O(n \log n) + \tilde{O}((kn)^{2/3})$ time. We can also find $τ$ largest peaks in $O(n \log ^2 n) + \tilde{O}((τn)^{2/3})$ time. Moreover, we consider the longest edge in a parametric minimum spanning tree (in other words, a bottleneck edge for connectivity), and give an algorithm to compute the parameter value (within a given interval) maximizing/minimizing the length of the longest edge in MST. The time complexity is $\tilde{O}(n^{8/7}k^{1/7} + n k^{1/3})$

The Anatomy of the Grid - Enabling Scalable Virtual Organizations

"Grid" computing has emerged as an important new field, distinguished from conventional distributed computing by its focus on large-scale resource sharing, innovative applications, and, in some cases, high-performance orientation. In this article, we define this new field. First, we review the "Grid problem," which we define as flexible, secure, coordinated resource sharing among dynamic collections of individuals, institutions, and resources-what we refer to as virtual organizations. In such settings, we encounter unique authentication, authorization, resource access, resource discovery, and other challenges. It is this class of problem that is addressed by Grid technologies. Next, we present an extensible and open Grid architecture, in which protocols, services, application programming interfaces, and software development kits are categorized according to their roles in enabling resource sharing. We describe requirements that we believe any such mechanisms must satisfy, and we discuss the central role played by the intergrid protocols that enable interoperability among different Grid systems. Finally, we discuss how Grid technologies relate to other contemporary technologies, including enterprise integration, application service provider, storage service provider, and peer-to-peer computing. We maintain that Grid concepts and technologies complement and have much to contribute to these other approaches.

A Decision Tree of Bigrams is an Accurate Predictor of Word Sense

This paper presents a corpus-based approach to word sense disambiguation where a decision tree assigns a sense to an ambiguous word based on the bigrams that occur nearby. This approach is evaluated using the sense-tagged corpora from the 1998 SENSEVAL word sense disambiguation exercise. It is more accurate than the average results reported for 30 of 36 words, and is more accurate than the best results for 19 of 36 words.

Mantaining Dynamic Matrices for Fully Dynamic Transitive Closure

In this paper we introduce a general framework for casting fully dynamic transitive closure into the problem of reevaluating polynomials over matrices. With this technique, we improve the best known bounds for fully dynamic transitive closure. In particular, we devise a deterministic algorithm for general directed graphs that achieves $O(n^2)$ amortized time for updates, while preserving unit worst-case cost for queries. In case of deletions only, our algorithm performs updates faster in O(n) amortized time.
Our matrix-based approach yields an algorithm for directed acyclic graphs that breaks through the $O(n^2)$ barrier on the single-operation complexity of fully dynamic transitive closure. We can answer queries in $O(n^ε)$ time and perform updates in $O(n^{ω(1,ε,1)-ε}+n^{1+ε})$ time, for any $ε\in[0,1]$, where $ω(1,ε,1)$ is the exponent of the multiplication of an $n\times n^ε$ matrix by an $n^ε\times n$ matrix. The current best bounds on $ω(1,ε,1)$ imply an $O(n^{0.58})$ query time and an $O(n^{1.58})$ update time. Our subquadratic algorithm is randomized, and has one-side error.

Replica Selection in the Globus Data Grid

The Globus Data Grid architecture provides a scalable infrastructure for the management of storage resources and data that are distributed across Grid environments. These services are designed to support a variety of scientific applications, ranging from high-energy physics to computational genomics, that require access to large amounts of data (terabytes or even petabytes) with varied quality of service requirements. By layering on a set of core services, such as data transport, security, and replica cataloging, one can construct various higher-level services. In this paper, we discuss the design and implementation of a high-level replica selection service that uses information regarding replica location and user preferences to guide selection from among storage replica alternatives. We first present a basic replica selection service design, then show how dynamic information collected using Globus information service capabilities concerning storage system properties can help improve and optimize the selection process. We demonstrate the use of Condor's ClassAds resource description and matchmaking mechanism as an efficient tool for representing and matching storage resource capabilities and policies against application requirements.

Chain Programs for Writing Deterministic Metainterpreters

Many metainterpreters found in the logic programming literature are nondeterministic in the sense that the selection of program clauses is not determined. Examples are the familiar "demo" and "vanilla" metainterpreters. For some applications this nondeterminism is convenient. In some cases, however, a deterministic metainterpreter, having an explicit selection of clauses, is needed. Such cases include (1) conversion of OR parallelism into AND parallelism for "committed-choice" processors, (2) logic-based, imperative-language implementation of search strategies, and (3) simulation of bounded-resource reasoning.
Deterministic metainterpreters are difficult to write because the programmer must be concerned about the set of unifiers of the children of a node in the derivation tree. We argue that it is both possible and advantageous to write these metainterpreters by reasoning in terms of object programs converted into a syntactically restricted form that we call "chain" form, where we can forget about unification, except for unit clauses. We give two transformations converting logic programs into chain form, one for "moded" programs (implicit in two existing exhaustive-traversal methods for committed-choice execution), and one for arbitrary definite programs. As illustrations of our approach we show examples of the three applications mentioned above.

Bootstrapping Structure using Similarity

In this paper a new similarity-based learning algorithm, inspired by string edit-distance (Wagner and Fischer, 1974), is applied to the problem of bootstrapping structure from scratch. The algorithm takes a corpus of unannotated sentences as input and returns a corpus of bracketed sentences. The method works on pairs of unstructured sentences or sentences partially bracketed by the algorithm that have one or more words in common. It finds parts of sentences that are interchangeable (i.e. the parts of the sentences that are different in both sentences). These parts are taken as possible constituents of the same type. While this corresponds to the basic bootstrapping step of the algorithm, further structure may be learned from comparison with other (similar) sentences.
We used this method for bootstrapping structure from the flat sentences of the Penn Treebank ATIS corpus, and compared the resulting structured sentences to the structured sentences in the ATIS corpus. Similarly, the algorithm was tested on the OVIS corpus. We obtained 86.04 % non-crossing brackets precision on the ATIS corpus and 89.39 % non-crossing brackets precision on the OVIS corpus.

ABL: Alignment-Based Learning

This paper introduces a new type of grammar learning algorithm, inspired by string edit distance (Wagner and Fischer, 1974). The algorithm takes a corpus of flat sentences as input and returns a corpus of labelled, bracketed sentences. The method works on pairs of unstructured sentences that have one or more words in common. When two sentences are divided into parts that are the same in both sentences and parts that are different, this information is used to find parts that are interchangeable. These parts are taken as possible constituents of the same type. After this alignment learning step, the selection learning step selects the most probable constituents from all possible constituents.
This method was used to bootstrap structure on the ATIS corpus (Marcus et al., 1993) and on the OVIS (Openbaar Vervoer Informatie Systeem (OVIS) stands for Public Transport Information System.) corpus (Bonnema et al., 1997). While the results are encouraging (we obtained up to 89.25 % non-crossing brackets precision), this paper will point out some of the shortcomings of our approach and will suggest possible solutions.

Evaluating Recommendation Algorithms by Graph Analysis

We present a novel framework for evaluating recommendation algorithms in terms of the `jumps' that they make to connect people to artifacts. This approach emphasizes reachability via an algorithm within the implicit graph structure underlying a recommender dataset, and serves as a complement to evaluation in terms of predictive accuracy. The framework allows us to consider questions relating algorithmic parameters to properties of the datasets. For instance, given a particular algorithm `jump,' what is the average path length from a person to an artifact? Or, what choices of minimum ratings and jumps maintain a connected graph? We illustrate the approach with a common jump called the `hammock' using movie recommender datasets.

Type Arithmetics: Computation based on the theory of types

The present paper shows meta-programming turn programming, which is rich enough to express arbitrary arithmetic computations. We demonstrate a type system that implements Peano arithmetics, slightly generalized to negative numbers. Certain types in this system denote numerals. Arithmetic operations on such types-numerals - addition, subtraction, and even division - are expressed as type reduction rules executed by a compiler. A remarkable trait is that division by zero becomes a type error - and reported as such by a compiler.

Potholes on the Royal Road

It is still unclear how an evolutionary algorithm (EA) searches a fitness landscape, and on what fitness landscapes a particular EA will do well. The validity of the building-block hypothesis, a major tenet of traditional genetic algorithm theory, remains controversial despite its continued use to justify claims about EAs. This paper outlines a research program to begin to answer some of these open questions, by extending the work done in the royal road project. The short-term goal is to find a simple class of functions which the simple genetic algorithm optimizes better than other optimization methods, such as hillclimbers. A dialectical heuristic for searching for such a class is introduced. As an example of using the heuristic, the simple genetic algorithm is compared with a set of hillclimbers on a simple subset of the hyperplane-defined functions, the pothole functions.

System Support for Bandwidth Management and Content Adaptation in Internet Applications

This paper describes the implementation and evaluation of an operating system module, the Congestion Manager (CM), which provides integrated network flow management and exports a convenient programming interface that allows applications to be notified of, and adapt to, changing network conditions. We describe the API by which applications interface with the CM, and the architectural considerations that factored into the design. To evaluate the architecture and API, we describe our implementations of TCP; a streaming layered audio/video application; and an interactive audio application using the CM, and show that they achieve adaptive behavior without incurring much end-system overhead. All flows including TCP benefit from the sharing of congestion information, and applications are able to incorporate new functionality such as congestion control and adaptive behavior.

Shooting Over or Under the Mark: Towards a Reliable and Flexible Anticipation in the Economy

The real monetary economy is grounded upon monetary flow equilibration or the activity of actualizing monetary flow continuity at each economic agent except for the central bank. Every update of monetary flow continuity at each agent constantly causes monetary flow equilibration at the neighborhood agents. Every monetary flow equilibration as the activity of shooting the mark identified as monetary flow continuity turns out to be off the mark, and constantly generate the similar activities in sequence. Monetary flow equilibration ceaselessly reverberating in the economy performs two functions. One is to seek an organization on its own, and the other is to perturb the ongoing organization. Monetary flow equilibration as the agency of seeking and perturbing its organization also serves as a means of predicting its behavior. The likely organizational behavior could be the one that remains most robust against monetary flow equilibration as an agency of applying perturbations.

Tracing a Faint Fingerprint of the Invisible Hand?

Any economic agent constituting the monetary economy maintains the activity of monetary flow equilibration for fulfilling the condition of monetary flow continuity in the record, except at the central bank. At the same time, monetary flow equilibration at one economic agent constantly induces at other agents in the economy further flow disequilibrium to be eliminated subsequently. We propose the rate of monetary flow disequilibration as a figure measuring the progressive movement of the economy. The rate of disequilibration was read out of both the Japanese and the United States monetary economy recorded over the last fifty years.

Application of Support Vector Machine to detect an association between a disease or trait and multiple SNP variations

After the completion of human genome sequence was anounced, it is evident that interpretation of DNA sequences is an immediate task to work on. For understanding their signals, improvement of present sequence analysis tools and developing new ones become necessary. Along this current trend, we attack one of the fundamental questions, which set of SNP(single nucleotide polymorphism) variations is related to a specific disease or trait is. For, in the whole DNA sequence, it is known that people have different DNAs only at SNP locations, and moreover, the total SNPs are less than 5 millions, finding an association between SNP variations and certain disease or trait is believed to be one of the essential steps not only for genetic researches but for drug design and discovery. In this paper, we are going to present a method of detecting whether there is an association between multiple SNP variations and a trait or disease. The method exploits the Support Vector Machine which has been attracting lots of attentions recently.

The Gibbs Representation of 3D Rotations

This paper revisits the little-known Gibbs-Rodrigues representation of rotations in a three-dimensional space and demonstrates a set of algorithms for handling it. In this representation the rotation is itself represented as a three-dimensional vector. The vector is parallel to the axis of rotation and its three components transform covariantly on change of coordinates. The mapping from rotations to vectors is 1:1 apart from computation error. The discontinuities of the representation require special handling but are not problematic. The rotation matrix can be generated efficiently from the vector without the use of transcendental functions, and vice-versa. The representation is more efficient than Euler angles, has affinities with Hassenpflug's Argyris angles and is very closely related to the quaternion representation. While the quaternion representation avoids the discontinuities inherent in any 3-component representation, this problem is readily overcome. The present paper gives efficient algorithms for computing the set of rotations which map a given vector to another of the same length and the rotation which maps a given pair of vectors to another pair of the same length and subtended angle.

Local Search Techniques for Constrained Portfolio Selection Problems

We consider the problem of selecting a portfolio of assets that provides the investor a suitable balance of expected return and risk. With respect to the seminal mean-variance model of Markowitz, we consider additional constraints on the cardinality of the portfolio and on the quantity of individual shares. Such constraints better capture the real-world trading system, but make the problem more difficult to be solved with exact methods. We explore the use of local search techniques, mainly tabu search, for the portfolio selection problem. We compare and combine previous work on portfolio selection that makes use of the local search approach and we propose new algorithms that combine different neighborhood relations. In addition, we show how the use of randomization and of a simple form of adaptiveness simplifies the setting of a large number of critical parameters. Finally, we show how our techniques perform on public benchmarks.

Dynamic Nonlocal Language Modeling via Hierarchical Topic-Based Adaptation

This paper presents a novel method of generating and applying hierarchical, dynamic topic-based language models. It proposes and evaluates new cluster generation, hierarchical smoothing and adaptive topic-probability estimation techniques. These combined models help capture long-distance lexical dependencies. Experiments on the Broadcast News corpus show significant improvement in perplexity (10.5% overall and 33.5% on target vocabulary).

Coaxing Confidences from an Old Friend: Probabilistic Classifications from Transformation Rule Lists

Transformation-based learning has been successfully employed to solve many natural language processing problems. It has many positive features, but one drawback is that it does not provide estimates of class membership probabilities.
In this paper, we present a novel method for obtaining class membership probabilities from a transformation-based rule list classifier. Three experiments are presented which measure the modeling accuracy and cross-entropy of the probabilistic classifier on unseen data and the degree to which the output probabilities from the classifier can be used to estimate confidences in its classification decisions.
The results of these experiments show that, for the task of text chunking, the estimates produced by this technique are more informative than those generated by a state-of-the-art decision tree.

Disjunction and modular goal-directed proof search

This paper explores goal-directed proof search in first-order multi-modal logic. The key issue is to design a proof system that respects the modularity and locality of assumptions of many modal logics. By forcing ambiguities to be considered independently, modular disjunctions in particular can be used to construct efficiently executable specifications in reasoning tasks involving partial information that otherwise might require prohibitive search. To achieve this behavior requires prior proof-theoretic justifications of logic programming to be extended, strengthened, and combined with proof-theoretic analyses of modal deduction in a novel way.

Microplanning with Communicative Intentions: The SPUD System

The process of microplanning encompasses a range of problems in Natural Language Generation (NLG), such as referring expression generation, lexical choice, and aggregation, problems in which a generator must bridge underlying domain-specific representations and general linguistic representations. In this paper, we describe a uniform approach to microplanning based on declarative representations of a generator's communicative intent. These representations describe the results of NLG: communicative intent associates the concrete linguistic structure planned by the generator with inferences that show how the meaning of that structure communicates needed information about some application domain in the current discourse context. Our approach, implemented in the SPUD (sentence planning using description) microplanner, uses the lexicalized tree-adjoining grammar formalism (LTAG) to connect structure to meaning and uses modal logic programming to connect meaning to context. At the same time, communicative intent representations provide a resource for the process of NLG. Using representations of communicative intent, a generator can augment the syntax, semantics and pragmatics of an incomplete sentence simultaneously, and can assess its progress on the various problems of microplanning incrementally. The declarative formulation of communicative intent translates into a well-defined methodology for designing grammatical and conceptual resources which the generator can use to achieve desired microplanning behavior in a specified domain.

Correction of Errors in a Modality Corpus Used for Machine Translation by Using Machine-learning Method

We performed corpus correction on a modality corpus for machine translation by using such machine-learning methods as the maximum-entropy method. We thus constructed a high-quality modality corpus based on corpus correction. We compared several kinds of methods for corpus correction in our experiments and developed a good method for corpus correction.

Man [and Woman] vs. Machine: A Case Study in Base Noun Phrase Learning

A great deal of work has been done demonstrating the ability of machine learning algorithms to automatically extract linguistic knowledge from annotated corpora. Very little work has gone into quantifying the difference in ability at this task between a person and a machine. This paper is a first step in that direction.

Rule Writing or Annotation: Cost-efficient Resource Usage for Base Noun Phrase Chunking

This paper presents a comprehensive empirical comparison between two approaches for developing a base noun phrase chunker: human rule writing and active learning using interactive real-time human annotation. Several novel variations on active learning are investigated, and underlying cost models for cross-modal machine learning comparison are presented and explored. Results show that it is more efficient and more successful by several measures to train a system using active learning annotation rather than hand-crafted rule writing at a comparable level of human labor investment.

A Complete WordNet1.5 to WordNet1.6 Mapping

We describe a robust approach for linking already existing lexical/semantic hierarchies. We use a constraint satisfaction algorithm (relaxation labelling) to select --among a set of candidates-- the node in a target taxonomy that bests matches each node in a source taxonomy. In this paper we present the complete mapping of the nominal, verbal, adjectival and adverbial parts of WordNet 1.5 onto WordNet 1.6.

Analysis of Polymorphically Typed Logic Programs Using ACI-Unification

Analysis of (partial) groundness is an important application of abstract interpretation. There are several proposals for improving the precision of such an analysis by exploiting type information, icluding our own work with Hill and King, where we had shown how the information present in the type declarations of a program can be used to characterise the degree of instantiation of a term in a precise and yet inherently finite way. This approach worked for polymorphically typed programs as in Goedel or HAL. Here, we recast this approach following works by Codish, Lagoon and Stuckey. To formalise which properties of terms we want to characterise, we use labelling functions, which are functions that extract subterms from a term along certain paths. An abstract term collects the results of all labelling functions of a term. For the analysis, programs are executed on abstract terms instead of the concrete ones, and usual unification is replaced by unification modulo an equality theory which includes the well-known ACI-theory. Thus we generalise the works by Codish, Lagoon and Stuckey w.r.t. the type systems considered and relate the works among each other.

Using Dependence Analysis to Support Software Architecture Understanding

Software architecture is receiving increasingly attention as a critical design level for software systems. As software architecture design resources (in the form of architectural descriptions) are going to be accumulated, the development of techniques and tools to support architectural understanding, testing, reengineering, maintaining, and reusing will become an important issue. In this paper we introduce a new dependence analysis technique, named architectural dependence analysis to support software architecture development. In contrast to traditional dependence analysis, architectural dependence analysis is designed to operate on an architectural description of a software system, rather than the source code of a conventional program. Architectural dependence analysis provides knowledge of dependences for the high-level architecture of a software system, rather than the low-level implementation details of a conventional program.

On Assessing the Complexity of Software Architectures

This paper proposes some new architectural metrics which are appropriate for evaluating the architectural attributes of a software system. The main feature of our approach is to assess the complexity of a software architecture by analyzing various types of architectural dependences in the architecture.

Component Programming and Interoperability in Constraint Solver Design

Prolog was once the main host for implementing constraint solvers.
It seems that it is no longer so. To be useful, constraint solvers have to be integrable into industrial applications written in imperative or object-oriented languages; to be efficient, they have to interact with other solvers. To meet these requirements, many solvers are now implemented in the form of extensible object-oriented libraries. Following Pfister and Szyperski, we argue that ``objects are not enough,'' and we propose to design solvers as component-oriented libraries. We illustrate our approach by the description of the architecture of a prototype, and we assess its strong points and weaknesses.

Joint and conditional estimation of tagging and parsing models

This paper compares two different ways of estimating statistical language models. Many statistical NLP tagging and parsing models are estimated by maximizing the (joint) likelihood of the fully-observed training data. However, since these applications only require the conditional probability distributions, these distributions can in principle be learnt by maximizing the conditional likelihood of the training data. Perhaps somewhat surprisingly, models estimated by maximizing the joint were superior to models estimated by maximizing the conditional, even though some of the latter models intuitively had access to ``more information''.

Dijkstra's Self-Stabilizing Algorithm in Unsupportive Environments

The first self-stabilizing algorithm [Dij73] assumed the existence of a central daemon, that activates one processor at time to change state as a function of its own state and the state of a neighbor. Subsequent research has reconsidered this algorithm without the assumption of a central daemon, and under different forms of communication, such as the model of link registers. In all of these investigations, one common feature is the atomicity of communication, whether by shared variables or read/write registers. This paper weakens the atomicity assumptions for the communication model, proposing versions of [Dij73] that tolerate various weaker forms of atomicity. First, a solution for the case of regular registers is presented. Then the case of safe registers is considered, with both negative and positive results presented. The paper also presents an implementation of [Dij73] based on registers that have probabilistically correct behavior, which requires a notion of weak stabilization.

The alldifferent Constraint: A Survey

The constraint of difference is known to the constraint programming community since Lauriere introduced Alice in 1978. Since then, several solving strategies have been designed for this constraint. In this paper we give both a practical overview and an abstract comparison of these different strategies.

Probabilistic top-down parsing and language modeling

This paper describes the functioning of a broad-coverage probabilistic top-down parser, and its application to the problem of language modeling for speech recognition. The paper first introduces key notions in language modeling and probabilistic parsing, and briefly reviews some previous approaches to using syntactic structure for language modeling. A lexicalized probabilistic top-down parser is then presented, which performs very well, in terms of both the accuracy of returned parses and the efficiency with which they are found, relative to the best broad-coverage statistical parsers. A new language model which utilizes probabilistic top-down parsing is then outlined, and empirical results show that it improves upon previous work in test corpus perplexity. Interpolation with a trigram model yields an exceptional improvement relative to the improvement observed by other models, demonstrating the degree to which the information captured by our parsing model is orthogonal to that captured by a trigram model. A small recognition experiment also demonstrates the utility of the model.

Optimization Over Zonotopes and Training Support Vector Machines

We make a connection between classical polytopes called zonotopes and Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifiers. We combine this connection with the ellipsoid method to give some new theoretical results on training SVMs. We also describe some special properties of soft margin C-SVMs as parameter C goes to infinity.

Robust Probabilistic Predictive Syntactic Processing

This thesis presents a broad-coverage probabilistic top-down parser, and its application to the problem of language modeling for speech recognition. The parser builds fully connected derivations incrementally, in a single pass from left-to-right across the string. We argue that the parsing approach that we have adopted is well-motivated from a psycholinguistic perspective, as a model that captures probabilistic dependencies between lexical items, as part of the process of building connected syntactic structures. The basic parser and conditional probability models are presented, and empirical results are provided for its parsing accuracy on both newspaper text and spontaneous telephone conversations. Modifications to the probability model are presented that lead to improved performance. A new language model which uses the output of the parser is then defined. Perplexity and word error rate reduction are demonstrated over trigram models, even when the trigram is trained on significantly more data. Interpolation on a word-by-word basis with a trigram model yields additional improvements.

A Logical Framework for Convergent Infinite Computations

Classical computations can not capture the essence of infinite computations very well. This paper will focus on a class of infinite computations called convergent infinite computations}. A logic for convergent infinite computations is proposed by extending first order theories using Cauchy sequences, which has stronger expressive power than the first order logic. A class of fixed points characterizing the logical properties of the limits can be represented by means of infinite-length terms defined by Cauchy sequences. We will show that the limit of sequence of first order theories can be defined in terms of distance, similar to the $ε-N$ style definition of limits in real analysis. On the basis of infinitary terms, a computation model for convergent infinite computations is proposed. Finally, the interpretations of logic programs are extended by introducing real Herbrand models of logic programs and a sufficient condition for computing a real Herbrand model of Horn logic programs using convergent infinite computation is given.

Solving Composed First-Order Constraints from Discrete-Time Robust Control

This paper deals with a problem from discrete-time robust control which requires the solution of constraints over the reals that contain both universal and existential quantifiers. For solving this problem we formulate it as a program in a (fictitious) constraint logic programming language with explicit quantifier notation. This allows us to clarify the special structure of the problem, and to extend an algorithm for computing approximate solution sets of first-order constraints over the reals to exploit this structure. As a result we can deal with inputs that are clearly out of reach for current symbolic solvers.

Multi-Channel Parallel Adaptation Theory for Rule Discovery

In this paper, we introduce a new machine learning theory based on multi-channel parallel adaptation for rule discovery. This theory is distinguished from the familiar parallel-distributed adaptation theory of neural networks in terms of channel-based convergence to the target rules. We show how to realize this theory in a learning system named CFRule. CFRule is a parallel weight-based model, but it departs from traditional neural computing in that its internal knowledge is comprehensible. Furthermore, when the model converges upon training, each channel converges to a target rule. The model adaptation rule is derived by multi-level parallel weight optimization based on gradient descent. Since, however, gradient descent only guarantees local optimization, a multi-channel regression-based optimization strategy is developed to effectively deal with this problem. Formally, we prove that the CFRule model can explicitly and precisely encode any given rule set. Also, we prove a property related to asynchronous parallel convergence, which is a critical element of the multi-channel parallel adaptation theory for rule learning. Thanks to the quantizability nature of the CFRule model, rules can be extracted completely and soundly via a threshold-based mechanism. Finally, the practical application of the theory is demonstrated in DNA promoter recognition and hepatitis prognosis prediction.

Generating a 3D Simulation of a Car Accident from a Written Description in Natural Language: the CarSim System

This paper describes a prototype system to visualize and animate 3D scenes from car accident reports, written in French. The problem of generating such a 3D simulation can be divided into two subtasks: the linguistic analysis and the virtual scene generation. As a means of communication between these two modules, we first designed a template formalism to represent a written accident report. The CarSim system first processes written reports, gathers relevant information, and converts it into a formal description. Then, it creates the corresponding 3D scene and animates the vehicles.

Constraint Propagation in Presence of Arrays

We describe the use of array expressions as constraints, which represents a consequent generalisation of the "element" constraint. Constraint propagation for array constraints is studied theoretically, and for a set of domain reduction rules the local consistency they enforce, arc-consistency, is proved. An efficient algorithm is described that encapsulates the rule set and so inherits the capability to enforce arc-consistency from the rules.

Market-Based Reinforcement Learning in Partially Observable Worlds

Unlike traditional reinforcement learning (RL), market-based RL is in principle applicable to worlds described by partially observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs), where an agent needs to learn short-term memories of relevant previous events in order to execute optimal actions. Most previous work, however, has focused on reactive settings (MDPs) instead of POMDPs. Here we reimplement a recent approach to market-based RL and for the first time evaluate it in a toy POMDP setting.

Toward Natural Gesture/Speech Control of a Large Display

In recent years because of the advances in computer vision research, free hand gestures have been explored as means of human-computer interaction (HCI). Together with improved speech processing technology it is an important step toward natural multimodal HCI. However, inclusion of non-predefined continuous gestures into a multimodal framework is a challenging problem. In this paper, we propose a structured approach for studying patterns of multimodal language in the context of a 2D-display control. We consider systematic analysis of gestures from observable kinematical primitives to their semantics as pertinent to a linguistic structure. Proposed semantic classification of co-verbal gestures distinguishes six categories based on their spatio-temporal deixis. We discuss evolution of a computational framework for gesture and speech integration which was used to develop an interactive testbed (iMAP). The testbed enabled elicitation of adequate, non-sequential, multimodal patterns in a narrative mode of HCI. Conducted user studies illustrate significance of accounting for the temporal alignment of gesture and speech parts in semantic mapping. Furthermore, co-occurrence analysis of gesture/speech production suggests syntactic organization of gestures at the lexical level.

When being Weak is Brave: Privacy in Recommender Systems

We explore the conflict between personalization and privacy that arises from the existence of weak ties. A weak tie is an unexpected connection that provides serendipitous recommendations. However, information about weak ties could be used in conjunction with other sources of data to uncover identities and reveal other personal information. In this article, we use a graph-theoretic model to study the benefit and risk from weak ties.

The OLAC Metadata Set and Controlled Vocabularies

As language data and associated technologies proliferate and as the language resources community rapidly expands, it has become difficult to locate and reuse existing resources. Are there any lexical resources for such-and-such a language? What tool can work with transcripts in this particular format? What is a good format to use for linguistic data of this type? Questions like these dominate many mailing lists, since web search engines are an unreliable way to find language resources. This paper describes a new digital infrastructure for language resource discovery, based on the Open Archives Initiative, and called OLAC -- the Open Language Archives Community. The OLAC Metadata Set and the associated controlled vocabularies facilitate consistent description and focussed searching. We report progress on the metadata set and controlled vocabularies, describing current issues and soliciting input from the language resources community.

Lectures on Reduce and Maple at UAM I - Mexico

These lectures give a brief introduction to the Computer Algebra systems Reduce and Maple. The aim is to provide a systematic survey of most important commands and concepts. In particular, this includes a discussion of simplification schemes and the handling of simplification and substitution rules (e.g., a Lie Algebra is implemented in Reduce by means of simplification rules).
Another emphasis is on the different implementations of tensor calculi and the exterior calculus by Reduce and Maple and their application in Gravitation theory and Differential Geometry.
I held the lectures at the Universidad Autonoma Metropolitana-Iztapalapa, Departamento de Fisica, Mexico, in November 1999.

On the Area of Hypercube Layouts

This paper precisely analyzes the wire density and required area in standard layout styles for the hypercube. The most natural, regular layout of a hypercube of N^2 nodes in the plane, in a N x N grid arrangement, uses floor(2N/3)+1 horizontal wiring tracks for each row of nodes. (The number of tracks per row can be reduced by 1 with a less regular design.) This paper also gives a simple formula for the wire density at any cut position and a full characterization of all places where the wire density is maximized (which does not occur at the bisection).

Historical Dynamics of Lexical System as Random Walk Process

It is offered to consider word meanings changes in diachrony as semicontinuous random walk with reflecting and swallowing screens. The basic characteristics of word life cycle are defined. Verification of the model has been realized on the data of Russian words distribution on various age periods.

Approximating the satisfiability threshold for random k-XOR-formulas

In this paper we study random linear systems with $k$ variables per equation over the finite field GF(2), or equivalently $k$-XOR-CNF formulas. In a previous paper Creignou and Daudé proved that the phase transition for the consistency (satisfiability) of such systems (formulas) exhibits a sharp threshold. Here we prove that the phase transition occurs as the number of equations (clauses) is proportional to the number of variables. For any $k\ge 3$ we establish first estimates for the critical ratio. For $k=3$ we get 0.93 as an upper bound, 0.89 as a lower bound, whereas experiments suggest that the critical ratio is approximately 0.92.

Solving Assembly Line Balancing Problems by Combining IP and CP

Assembly line balancing problems consist in partitioning the work necessary to assemble a number of products among different stations of an assembly line. We present a hybrid approach for solving such problems, which combines constraint programming and integer programming.

A note on radial basis function computing

This note carries three purposes involving our latest advances on the radial basis function (RBF) approach. First, we will introduce a new scheme employing the boundary knot method (BKM) to nonlinear convection-diffusion problem. It is stressed that the new scheme directly results in a linear BKM formulation of nonlinear problems by using response point-dependent RBFs, which can be solved by any linear solver. Then we only need to solve a single nonlinear algebraic equation for desirable unknown at some inner node of interest. The numerical results demonstrate high accuracy and efficiency of this nonlinear BKM strategy. Second, we extend the concepts of distance function, which include time-space and variable transformation distance functions. Finally, we demonstrate that if the nodes are symmetrically placed, the RBF coefficient matrices have either centrosymmetric or skew centrosymmetric structures. The factorization features of such matrices lead to a considerable reduction in the RBF computing effort. A simple approach is also presented to reduce the ill-conditioning of RBF interpolation matrices in general cases.

Soft Scheduling

Classical notions of disjunctive and cumulative scheduling are studied from the point of view of soft constraint satisfaction. Soft disjunctive scheduling is introduced as an instance of soft CSP and preferences included in this problem are applied to generate a lower bound based on existing discrete capacity resource. Timetabling problems at Purdue University and Faculty of Informatics at Masaryk University considering individual course requirements of students demonstrate practical problems which are solved via proposed methods. Implementation of general preference constraint solver is discussed and first computational results for timetabling problem are presented.

The Representation of Legal Contracts

The paper outlines ongoing research on logic-based tools for the analysis and representation of legal contracts of the kind frequently encountered in large-scale engineering projects and complex, long-term trading agreements. We consider both contract formation and contract performance, in each case identifying the representational issues and the prospects for providing automated support tools.

A Constraint-Driven System for Contract Assembly

We present an approach for modelling the structure and coarse content of legal documents with a view to providing automated support for the drafting of contracts and contract database retrieval. The approach is designed to be applicable where contract drafting is based on model-form contracts or on existing examples of a similar type. The main features of the approach are: (1) the representation addresses the structure and the interrelationships between the constituent parts of contracts, but not the text of the document itself; (2) the representation of documents is separated from the mechanisms that manipulate it; and (3) the drafting process is subject to a collection of explicitly stated constraints that govern the structure of the documents. We describe the representation of document instances and of 'generic documents', which are data structures used to drive the creation of new document instances, and we show extracts from a sample session to illustrate the features of a prototype system implemented in MacProlog.

Modelling Contractual Arguments

One influential approach to assessing the "goodness" of arguments is offered by the Pragma-Dialectical school (p-d) (Eemeren & Grootendorst 1992). This can be compared with Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) (Mann & Thompson 1988), an approach that originates in discourse analysis. In p-d terms an argument is good if it avoids committing a fallacy, whereas in RST terms an argument is good if it is coherent. RST has been criticised (Snoeck Henkemans 1997) for providing only a partially functional account of argument, and similar criticisms have been raised in the Natural Language Generation (NLG) community-particularly by Moore & Pollack (1992)- with regards to its account of intentionality in text in general. Mann and Thompson themselves note that although RST can be successfully applied to a wide range of texts from diverse domains, it fails to characterise some types of text, most notably legal contracts. There is ongoing research in the Artificial Intelligence and Law community exploring the potential for providing electronic support to contract negotiators, focusing on long-term, complex engineering agreements (see for example Daskalopulu & Sergot 1997). This paper provides a brief introduction to RST and illustrates its shortcomings with respect to contractual text. An alternative approach for modelling argument structure is presented which not only caters for contractual text, but also overcomes the aforementioned limitations of RST.

Computing Functional and Relational Box Consistency by Structured Propagation in Atomic Constraint Systems

Box consistency has been observed to yield exponentially better performance than chaotic constraint propagation in the interval constraint system obtained by decomposing the original expression into primitive constraints. The claim was made that the improvement is due to avoiding decomposition. In this paper we argue that the improvement is due to replacing chaotic iteration by a more structured alternative.
To this end we distinguish the existing notion of box consistency from relational box consistency. We show that from a computational point of view it is important to maintain the functional structure in constraint systems that are associated with a system of equations. So far, it has only been considered computationally important that constraint propagation be fair. With the additional structure of functional constraint systems, one can define and implement computationally effective, structured, truncated constraint propagations. The existing algorithm for box consistency is one such. Our results suggest that there are others worth investigating.

Model Checking Contractual Protocols

This paper discusses how model checking, a technique used for the verification of behavioural requirements of dynamic systems, can be usefully deployed for the verification of contracts. A process view of agreements between parties is taken, whereby a contract is modelled as it evolves over time in terms of actions or more generally events that effect changes in its state. Modelling is done with Petri Nets in the spirit of other research work on the representation of trade procedures. The paper illustrates all the phases of the verification technique through an example and argues that the approach is useful particularly in the context of pre-contractual negotiation and contract drafting. The work reported here is part of a broader project on the development of logic-based tools for the analysis and representation of legal contracts.

Computational properties of environment-based disambiguation

The standard pipeline approach to semantic processing, in which sentences are morphologically and syntactically resolved to a single tree before they are interpreted, is a poor fit for applications such as natural language interfaces. This is because the environment information, in the form of the objects and events in the application's run-time environment, cannot be used to inform parsing decisions unless the input sentence is semantically analyzed, but this does not occur until after parsing in the single-tree semantic architecture. This paper describes the computational properties of an alternative architecture, in which semantic analysis is performed on all possible interpretations during parsing, in polynomial time.

Computational Properties of Metaquerying Problems

Metaquerying is a datamining technology by which hidden dependencies among several database relations can be discovered. This tool has already been successfully applied to several real-world applications. Recent papers provide only preliminary results about the complexity of metaquerying. In this paper we define several variants of metaquerying that encompass, as far as we know, all variants defined in the literature. We study both the combined complexity and the data complexity of these variants. We show that, under the combined complexity measure, metaquerying is generally intractable (unless P=NP), lying sometimes quite high in the complexity hierarchies (as high as NP^PP), depending on the characteristics of the plausibility index. However, we are able to single out some tractable and interesting metaquerying cases (whose combined complexity is LOGCFL-complete). As for the data complexity of metaquerying, we prove that, in general, this is in TC0, but lies within AC0 in some simpler cases. Finally, we discuss implementation of metaqueries, by providing algorithms to answer them.

The Set of Equations to Evaluate Objects

The notion of an equational shell is studied to involve the objects and their environment. Appropriate methods are studied as valid embeddings of refined objects. The refinement process determines the linkages between the variety of possible representations giving rise to variants of computations. The case study is equipped with the adjusted equational systems that validate the initial applicative framework.

L.T.Kuzin: Research Program

Lev T. Kuzin (1928--1997) is one of the founders of modern cybernetics and information science in Russia. He was awarded and honored the USSR State Prize for inspiring vision into the future of technical cybernetics and his invention and innovation of key technologies.
The last years he interested in the computational models of geometrical and algebraic nature and their applications in various branches of computer science and information technologies. In the recent years the interest in computation models based on object notion has grown tremendously stimulating an interest to Kuzin's ideas. This year of 50th Anniversary of Cybernetics and on the occasion of his 70th birthday on September 12, 1998 seems especially appropriate for discussing Kuzin's Research Program.

File mapping Rule-based DBMS and Natural Language Processing

This paper describes the system of storage, extract and processing of information structured similarly to the natural language. For recursive inference the system uses the rules having the same representation, as the data. The environment of storage of information is provided with the File Mapping (SHM) mechanism of operating system. In the paper the main principles of construction of dynamic data structure and language for record of the inference rules are stated; the features of available implementation are considered and the description of the application realizing semantic information retrieval on the natural language is given.

An object evaluator to generate flexible applications

This paper contains a brief discussion of an object evaluator which is based on principles of evaluations in a category. The main tool system referred as the Application Development Environment (ADE) is used to build database applications involving the graphical user interface (GUI). The separation of a database access and the user interface is reached by distinguishing the potential and actual objects. The variety of applications may be generated that communicate with different and distinct desktop databases. The commutative diagrams' technique allows to involve retrieval and call of the delayed procedures.

Building the access pointers to a computation environment

A common object technique equipped with the categorical and computational styles is briefly outlined. An object is evaluated by embedding in a host computational environment which is the domain-ranged structure. An embedded object is accessed by the pointers generated within the host system. To assist with an easy extract the result of the evaluation a pre-embedded object is generated. It is observed as the decomposition into substitutional part and access function part which are generated during the object evaluation.

Economic Models for Management of Resources in Grid Computing

The accelerated development in Grid and peer-to-peer computing has positioned them as promising next generation computing platforms. They enable the creation of Virtual Enterprises (VE) for sharing resources distributed across the world. However, resource management, application development and usage models in these environments is a complex undertaking. This is due to the geographic distribution of resources that are owned by different organizations. The resource owners of each of these resources have different usage or access policies and cost models, and varying loads and availability. In order to address complex resource management issues, we have proposed a computational economy framework for resource allocation and for regulating supply and demand in Grid computing environments. The framework provides mechanisms for optimizing resource provider and consumer objective functions through trading and brokering services. In a real world market, there exist various economic models for setting the price for goods based on supply-and-demand and their value to the user. They include commodity market, posted price, tenders and auctions. In this paper, we discuss the use of these models for interaction between Grid components in deciding resource value and the necessary infrastructure to realize them. In addition to normal services offered by Grid computing systems, we need an infrastructure to support interaction protocols, allocation mechanisms, currency, secure banking, and enforcement services. Furthermore, we demonstrate the usage of some of these economic models in resource brokering through Nimrod/G deadline and cost-based scheduling for two different optimization strategies on the World Wide Grid (WWG) testbed.

Object-oriented solutions

In this paper are briefly outlined the motivations, mathematical ideas in use, pre-formalization and assumptions, object-as-functor construction, `soft' types and concept constructions, case study for concepts based on variable domains, extracting a computational background, and examples of evaluations.

One More Revolution to Make: Free Scientific Publishing

Computer scientists are in the position to create new, free high-quality journals. So what would it take?

Object-oriented tools for advanced applications

This paper contains a brief discussion of the Application Development Environment (ADE) that is used to build database applications involving the graphical user interface (GUI). ADE computing separates the database access and the user interface. The variety of applications may be generated that communicate with different and distinct desktop databases. The advanced techniques allows to involve remote or stored procedures retrieval and call.

Objects and their computational framework

Most of the object notions are embedded into a logical domain, especially when dealing with a database theory. Thus, their properties within a computational domain are not yet studied properly. The main topic of this paper is to analyze different concepts of the distinct computational primitive frames to extract the useful object properties and their possible advantages. Some important metaoperators are used to unify the approaches and to establish their possible correspondences.

Information Integration and Computational Logic

Information Integration is a young and exciting field with enormous research and commercial significance in the new world of the Information Society. It stands at the crossroad of Databases and Artificial Intelligence requiring novel techniques that bring together different methods from these fields. Information from disparate heterogeneous sources often with no a-priori common schema needs to be synthesized in a flexible, transparent and intelligent way in order to respond to the demands of a query thus enabling a more informed decision by the user or application program. The field although relatively young has already found many practical applications particularly for integrating information over the World Wide Web. This paper gives a brief introduction of the field highlighting some of the main current and future research issues and application areas. It attempts to evaluate the current and potential role of Computational Logic in this and suggests some of the problems where logic-based techniques could be used.

Event Driven Computations for Relational Query Language

This paper deals with an extended model of computations which uses the parameterized families of entities for data objects and reflects a preliminary outline of this problem. Some topics are selected out, briefly analyzed and arranged to cover a general problem. The authors intended more to discuss the particular topics, their interconnection and computational meaning as a panel proposal, so that this paper is not yet to be evaluated as a closed journal paper. To save space all the technical and implementation features are left for the future paper.
Data object is a schematic entity and modelled by the partial function. A notion of type is extended by the variable domains which depend on events and types. A variable domain is built from the potential and schematic individuals and generates the valid families of types depending on a sequence of events. Each valid type consists of the actual individuals which are actual relatively the event or script. In case when a type depends on the script then corresponding view for data objects is attached, otherwise a snapshot is generated. The type thus determined gives an upper range for typed variables so that the local ranges are event driven resulting is the families of actual individuals. An expressive power of the query language is extended using the extensional and intentional relations.

Event Driven Objects

A formal consideration in this paper is given for the essential notations to characterize the object that is distinguished in a problem domain. The distinct object is represented by another idealized object, which is a schematic element. When the existence of an element is significant, then a class of these partial elements is dropped down into actual, potential and virtual objects. The potential objects are gathered into the variable domains which are the extended ranges for unbound variables. The families of actual objects are shown to be parameterized with the types and events. The transitions between events are shown to be driven by the scripts. A computational framework arises which is described by the commutative diagrams.

Pricing Virtual Paths with Quality-of-Service Guarantees as Bundle Derivatives

We describe a model of a communication network that allows us to price complex network services as financial derivative contracts based on the spot price of the capacity in individual routers. We prove a theorem of a Girsanov transform that is useful for pricing linear derivatives on underlying assets, which can be used to price many complex network services, and it is used to price an option that gives access to one of several virtual channels between two network nodes, during a specified future time interval. We give the continuous time hedging strategy, for which the option price is independent of the service providers attitude towards risk. The option price contains the density function of a sum of lognormal variables, which has to be evaluated numerically.

Building Views with Description Logics in ADE: Application Development Environment

Any of views is formally defined within description logics that were established as a family of logics for modeling complex hereditary structures and have a suitable expressive power. This paper considers the Application Development Environment (ADE) over generalized variable concepts that are used to build database applications involving the supporting views. The front-end user interacts the database via separate ADE access mechanism intermediated by view support. The variety of applications may be generated that communicate with different and distinct desktop databases in a data warehouse. The advanced techniques allows to involve remote or stored procedures retrieval and call.

Logic, Individuals and Concepts

This extended abstract gives a brief outline of the connections between the descriptions and variable concepts. Thus, the notion of a concept is extended to include both the syntax and semantics features. The evaluation map in use is parameterized by a kind of computational environment, the index, giving rise to indexed concepts. The concepts are inhabited into language by the descriptions from the higher order logic. In general the idea of object-as-functor should assist the designer to outline a programming tool in conceptual shell style.

Complexity Results and Practical Algorithms for Logics in Knowledge Representation

Description Logics (DLs) are used in knowledge-based systems to represent and reason about terminological knowledge of the application domain in a semantically well-defined manner. In this thesis, we establish a number of novel complexity results and give practical algorithms for expressive DLs that provide different forms of counting quantifiers.
We show that, in many cases, adding local counting in the form of qualifying number restrictions to DLs does not increase the complexity of the inference problems, even if binary coding of numbers in the input is assumed. On the other hand, we show that adding different forms of global counting restrictions to a logic may increase the complexity of the inference problems dramatically.
We provide exact complexity results and a practical, tableau based algorithm for the DL SHIQ, which forms the basis of the highly optimized DL system iFaCT.
Finally, we describe a tableau algorithm for the clique guarded fragment (CGF), which we hope will serve as the basis for an efficient implementation of a CGF reasoner.

Hinged Kite Mirror Dissection

Any two polygons of equal area can be partitioned into congruent sets of polygonal pieces, and in many cases one can connect the pieces by flexible hinges while still allowing the connected set to form both polygons. However it is open whether such a hinged dissection always exists. We solve a special case of this problem, by showing that any asymmetric polygon always has a hinged dissection to its mirror image. Our dissection forms a chain of kite-shaped pieces, found by a circle-packing algorithm for quadrilateral mesh generation. A hinged mirror dissection of a polygon with n sides can be formed with O(n) kites in O(n log n) time.

Solving equations in the relational algebra

Enumerating all solutions of a relational algebra equation is a natural and powerful operation which, when added as a query language primitive to the nested relational algebra, yields a query language for nested relational databases, equivalent to the well-known powerset algebra. We study \emph{sparse} equations, which are equations with at most polynomially many solutions. We look at their complexity, and compare their expressive power with that of similar notions in the powerset algebra.

Polymorphic type inference for the relational algebra

We give a polymorphic account of the relational algebra. We introduce a formalism of ``type formulas'' specifically tuned for relational algebra expressions, and present an algorithm that computes the ``principal'' type for a given expression. The principal type of an expression is a formula that specifies, in a clear and concise manner, all assignments of types (sets of attributes) to relation names, under which a given relational algebra expression is well-typed, as well as the output type that expression will have under each of these assignments. Topics discussed include complexity and polymorphic expressive power.

Convergence and Error Bounds for Universal Prediction of Nonbinary Sequences

Solomonoff's uncomputable universal prediction scheme $ξ$ allows to predict the next symbol $x_k$ of a sequence $x_1...x_{k-1}$ for any Turing computable, but otherwise unknown, probabilistic environment $μ$. This scheme will be generalized to arbitrary environmental classes, which, among others, allows the construction of computable universal prediction schemes $ξ$. Convergence of $ξ$ to $μ$ in a conditional mean squared sense and with $μ$ probability 1 is proven. It is shown that the average number of prediction errors made by the universal $ξ$ scheme rapidly converges to those made by the best possible informed $μ$ scheme. The schemes, theorems and proofs are given for general finite alphabet, which results in additional complications as compared to the binary case. Several extensions of the presented theory and results are outlined. They include general loss functions and bounds, games of chance, infinite alphabet, partial and delayed prediction, classification, and more active systems.

Simple and Effective Distributed Computing with a Scheduling Service

High-throughput computing projects require the solution of large numbers of problems. In many cases, these problems can be solved on desktop PCs, or can be broken down into independent "PC-solvable" sub-problems. In such cases, the projects are high-performance computing projects, but only because of the sheer number of the needed calculations. We briefly describe our efforts to increase the throughput of one such project. We then explain how to easily set up a distributed computing facility composed of standard networked PCs running Windows 95, 98, 2000, or NT. The facility requires no special software or hardware, involves little or no re-coding of application software, and operates almost invisibly to the owners of the PCs. Depending on the number and quality of PCs recruited, performance can rival that of supercomputers.

Iterative Residual Rescaling: An Analysis and Generalization of LSI

We consider the problem of creating document representations in which inter-document similarity measurements correspond to semantic similarity. We first present a novel subspace-based framework for formalizing this task. Using this framework, we derive a new analysis of Latent Semantic Indexing (LSI), showing a precise relationship between its performance and the uniformity of the underlying distribution of documents over topics. This analysis helps explain the improvements gained by Ando's (2000) Iterative Residual Rescaling (IRR) algorithm: IRR can compensate for distributional non-uniformity. A further benefit of our framework is that it provides a well-motivated, effective method for automatically determining the rescaling factor IRR depends on, leading to further improvements. A series of experiments over various settings and with several evaluation metrics validates our claims.

Stacking classifiers for anti-spam filtering of e-mail

We evaluate empirically a scheme for combining classifiers, known as stacked generalization, in the context of anti-spam filtering, a novel cost-sensitive application of text categorization. Unsolicited commercial e-mail, or "spam", floods mailboxes, causing frustration, wasting bandwidth, and exposing minors to unsuitable content. Using a public corpus, we show that stacking can improve the efficiency of automatically induced anti-spam filters, and that such filters can be used in real-life applications.

MACE 2.0 Reference Manual and Guide

MACE is a program that searches for finite models of first-order statements. The statement to be modeled is first translated to clauses, then to relational clauses; finally for the given domain size, the ground instances are constructed. A Davis-Putnam-Loveland-Logeman procedure decides the propositional problem, and any models found are translated to first-order models. MACE is a useful complement to the theorem prover Otter, with Otter searching for proofs and MACE looking for countermodels.

Using the Distribution of Performance for Studying Statistical NLP Systems and Corpora

Statistical NLP systems are frequently evaluated and compared on the basis of their performances on a single split of training and test data. Results obtained using a single split are, however, subject to sampling noise. In this paper we argue in favour of reporting a distribution of performance figures, obtained by resampling the training data, rather than a single number. The additional information from distributions can be used to make statistically quantified statements about differences across parameter settings, systems, and corpora.

A Sequential Model for Multi-Class Classification

Many classification problems require decisions among a large number of competing classes. These tasks, however, are not handled well by general purpose learning methods and are usually addressed in an ad-hoc fashion. We suggest a general approach -- a sequential learning model that utilizes classifiers to sequentially restrict the number of competing classes while maintaining, with high probability, the presence of the true outcome in the candidates set. Some theoretical and computational properties of the model are discussed and we argue that these are important in NLP-like domains. The advantages of the model are illustrated in an experiment in part-of-speech tagging.

Expressing the cone radius in the relational calculus with real polynomial constraints

We show that there is a query expressible in first-order logic over the reals that returns, on any given semi-algebraic set A, for every point a radius around which A is conical. We obtain this result by combining famous results from calculus and real algebraic geometry, notably Sard's theorem and Thom's first isotopy lemma, with recent algorithmic results by Rannou.

Modeling informational novelty in a conversational system with a hybrid statistical and grammar-based approach to natural language generation

We present a hybrid statistical and grammar-based system for surface natural language generation (NLG) that uses grammar rules, conditions on using those grammar rules, and corpus statistics to determine the word order. We also describe how this surface NLG module is implemented in a prototype conversational system, and how it attempts to model informational novelty by varying the word order. Using a combination of rules and statistical information, the conversational system expresses the novel information differently than the given information, based on the run-time dialog state. We also discuss our plans for evaluating the generation strategy.

On some optimization problems for star-free graphs

It is shown that in star-free graphs the maximum independent set problem, the minimum dominating set problem and the minimum independent dominating set problem are approximable up to constant factor by any maximal independent set.

Classes of Terminating Logic Programs

Termination of logic programs depends critically on the selection rule, i.e. the rule that determines which atom is selected in each resolution step. In this article, we classify programs (and queries) according to the selection rules for which they terminate. This is a survey and unified view on different approaches in the literature. For each class, we present a sufficient, for most classes even necessary, criterion for determining that a program is in that class. We study six classes: a program strongly terminates if it terminates for all selection rules; a program input terminates if it terminates for selection rules which only select atoms that are sufficiently instantiated in their input positions, so that these arguments do not get instantiated any further by the unification; a program local delay terminates if it terminates for local selection rules which only select atoms that are bounded w.r.t. an appropriate level mapping; a program left-terminates if it terminates for the usual left-to-right selection rule; a program exists-terminates if there exists a selection rule for which it terminates; finally, a program has bounded nondeterminism if it only has finitely many refutations. We propose a semantics-preserving transformation from programs with bounded nondeterminism into strongly terminating programs. Moreover, by unifying different formalisms and making appropriate assumptions, we are able to establish a formal hierarchy between the different classes.

Users Guide for SnadiOpt: A Package Adding Automatic Differentiation to Snopt

SnadiOpt is a package that supports the use of the automatic differentiation package ADIFOR with the optimization package Snopt. Snopt is a general-purpose system for solving optimization problems with many variables and constraints. It minimizes a linear or nonlinear function subject to bounds on the variables and sparse linear or nonlinear constraints. It is suitable for large-scale linear and quadratic programming and for linearly constrained optimization, as well as for general nonlinear programs. The method used by Snopt requires the first derivatives of the objective and constraint functions to be available. The SnadiOpt package allows users to avoid the time-consuming and error-prone process of evaluating and coding these derivatives. Given Fortran code for evaluating only the values of the objective and constraints, SnadiOpt automatically generates the code for evaluating the derivatives and builds the relevant Snopt input files and sparse data structures.

Acceptability with general orderings

We present a new approach to termination analysis of logic programs. The essence of the approach is that we make use of general orderings (instead of level mappings), like it is done in transformational approaches to logic program termination analysis, but we apply these orderings directly to the logic program and not to the term-rewrite system obtained through some transformation. We define some variants of acceptability, based on general orderings, and show how they are equivalent to LD-termination. We develop a demand driven, constraint-based approach to verify these acceptability-variants.
The advantage of the approach over standard acceptability is that in some cases, where complex level mappings are needed, fairly simple orderings may be easily generated. The advantage over transformational approaches is that it avoids the transformation step all together.
{\bf Keywords:} termination analysis, acceptability, orderings.

Inference of termination conditions for numerical loops

We present a new approach to termination analysis of numerical computations in logic programs. Traditional approaches fail to analyse them due to non well-foundedness of the integers. We present a technique that allows to overcome these difficulties. Our approach is based on transforming a program in way that allows integrating and extending techniques originally developed for analysis of numerical computations in the framework of query-mapping pairs with the well-known framework of acceptability. Such an integration not only contributes to the understanding of termination behaviour of numerical computations, but also allows to perform a correct analysis of such computations automatically, thus, extending previous work on a constraints-based approach to termination. In the last section of the paper we discuss possible extensions of the technique, including incorporating general term orderings.

Software Toolkit for Building Embedded and Distributed Knowledge-based Systems

The paper discusses the basic principles and the architecture of the software toolkit for constructing knowledge-based systems which can be used cooperatively over computer networks and also embedded into larger software systems in different ways. Presented architecture is based on frame knowledge representation and production rules, which also allows to interface high-level programming languages and relational databases by exposing corresponding classes or database tables as frames. Frames located on the remote computers can also be transparently accessed and used in inference, and the dynamic knowledge for specific frames can also be transferred over the network. The issues of implementation of such a system are addressed, which use Java programming language, CORBA and XML for external knowledge representation. Finally, some applications of the toolkit are considered, including e-business approach to knowledge sharing, intelligent web behaviours, etc.

A Seamless Integration of Association Rule Mining with Database Systems

The need for Knowledge and Data Discovery Management Systems (KDDMS) that support ad hoc data mining queries has been long recognized. A significant amount of research has gone into building tightly coupled systems that integrate association rule mining with database systems. In this paper, we describe a seamless integration scheme for database queries and association rule discovery using a common query optimizer for both. Query trees of expressions in an extended algebra are used for internal representation in the optimizer. The algebraic representation is flexible enough to deal with constrained association rule queries and other variations of association rule specifications. We propose modularization to simplify the query tree for complex tasks in data mining. It paves the way for making use of existing algorithms for constructing query plans in the optimization process. How the integration scheme we present will facilitate greater user control over the data mining process is also discussed. The work described in this paper forms part of a larger project for fully integrating data mining with database management.

Randomized Two-Process Wait-Free Test-and-Set

We present the first explicit, and currently simplest, randomized algorithm for 2-process wait-free test-and-set. It is implemented with two 4-valued single writer single reader atomic variables. A test-and-set takes at most 11 expected elementary steps, while a reset takes exactly 1 elementary step. Based on a finite-state analysis, the proofs of correctness and expected length are compressed into one table.

Enabling the Long-Term Archival of Signed Documents through Time Stamping

In this paper we describe how to build a trusted reliable distributed service across administrative domains in a peer-to-peer network. The application we use to motivate our work is a public key time stamping service called Prokopius. The service provides a secure, verifiable but distributable stable archive that maintains time stamped snapshots of public keys over time. This in turn allows clients to verify time stamped documents or certificates that rely on formerly trusted public keys that are no longer in service or where the signer no longer exists. We find that such a service can time stamp the snapshots of public keys in a network of 148 nodes at the granularity of a couple of days, even in the worst case where an adversary causes the maximal amount of damage allowable within our fault model.

CHR as grammar formalism. A first report

Grammars written as Constraint Handling Rules (CHR) can be executed as efficient and robust bottom-up parsers that provide a straightforward, non-backtracking treatment of ambiguity. Abduction with integrity constraints as well as other dynamic hypothesis generation techniques fit naturally into such grammars and are exemplified for anaphora resolution, coordination and text interpretation.

Analysis of Network Traffic in Switched Ethernet Systems

A 100 Mbps Ethernet link between a college campus and the outside world was monitored with a dedicated PC and the measured data analysed for its statistical properties. Similar measurements were taken at an internal node of the network. The networks in both cases are a full-duplex switched Ethernet. Inter-event interval histograms and power spectra of the throughput aggregated for 10ms bins were used to analyse the measured traffic. For most investigated cases both methods reveal that the traffic behaves according to a power law. The results will be used in later studies to parameterise models for network traffic.

Enhancing Constraint Propagation with Composition Operators

Constraint propagation is a general algorithmic approach for pruning the search space of a CSP. In a uniform way, K. R. Apt has defined a computation as an iteration of reduction functions over a domain. He has also demonstrated the need for integrating static properties of reduction functions (commutativity and semi-commutativity) to design specialized algorithms such as AC3 and DAC. We introduce here a set of operators for modeling compositions of reduction functions. Two of the major goals are to tackle parallel computations, and dynamic behaviours (such as slow convergence).

Lower Bounds for Zero-knowledge on the Internet

We consider zero knowledge interactive proofs in a richer, more realistic communication environment. In this setting, one may simultaneously engage in many interactive proofs, and these proofs may take place in an asynchronous fashion. It is known that zero-knowledge is not necessarily preserved in such an environment; we show that for a large class of protocols, it cannot be preserved. Any 4 round (computational) zero-knowledge interactive proof (or argument) for a non-trivial language L is not black-box simulatable in the asynchronous setting.

On Concurrent and Resettable Zero-Knowledge Proofs for NP

A proof is concurrent zero-knowledge if it remains zero-knowledge when many copies of the proof are run in an asynchronous environment, such as the Internet. It is known that zero-knowledge is not necessarily preserved in such an environment. Designing concurrent zero-knowledge proofs is a fundamental issue in the study of zero-knowledge since known zero-knowledge protocols cannot be run in a realistic modern computing environment. In this paper we present a concurrent zero-knowledge proof systems for all languages in NP. Currently, the proof system we present is the only known proof system that retains the zero-knowledge property when copies of the proof are allowed to run in an asynchronous environment. Our proof system has $\tilde{O}(\log^2 k)$ rounds (for a security parameter $k$), which is almost optimal, as it is shown by Canetti Kilian Petrank and Rosen that black-box concurrent zero-knowledge requires $\tildeΩ(\log k)$ rounds.
Canetti, Goldreich, Goldwasser and Micali introduced the notion of {\em resettable} zero-knowledge, and modified an earlier version of our proof system to obtain the first resettable zero-knowledge proof system. This protocol requires $k^{θ(1)}$ rounds. We note that their technique also applies to our current proof system, yielding a resettable zero-knowledge proof for NP with $\tilde{O}(\log^2 k)$ rounds.

The Role of Conceptual Relations in Word Sense Disambiguation

We explore many ways of using conceptual distance measures in Word Sense Disambiguation, starting with the Agirre-Rigau conceptual density measure. We use a generalized form of this measure, introducing many (parameterized) refinements and performing an exhaustive evaluation of all meaningful combinations. We finally obtain a 42% improvement over the original algorithm, and show that measures of conceptual distance are not worse indicators for sense disambiguation than measures based on word-coocurrence (exemplified by the Lesk algorithm). Our results, however, reinforce the idea that only a combination of different sources of knowledge might eventually lead to accurate word sense disambiguation.

Looking Under the Hood : Tools for Diagnosing your Question Answering Engine

In this paper we analyze two question answering tasks : the TREC-8 question answering task and a set of reading comprehension exams. First, we show that Q/A systems perform better when there are multiple answer opportunities per question. Next, we analyze common approaches to two subproblems: term overlap for answer sentence identification, and answer typing for short answer extraction. We present general tools for analyzing the strengths and limitations of techniques for these subproblems. Our results quantify the limitations of both term overlap and answer typing to distinguish between competing answer candidates.

The Risk Profile Problem for Stock Portfolio Optimization

This work initiates research into the problem of determining an optimal investment strategy for investors with different attitudes towards the trade-offs of risk and profit. The probability distribution of the return values of the stocks that are considered by the investor are assumed to be known, while the joint distribution is unknown. The problem is to find the best investment strategy in order to minimize the probability of losing a certain percentage of the invested capital based on different attitudes of the investors towards future outcomes of the stock market.
For portfolios made up of two stocks, this work shows how to exactly and quickly solve the problem of finding an optimal portfolio for aggressive or risk-averse investors, using an algorithm based on a fast greedy solution to a maximum flow problem. However, an investor looking for an average-case guarantee (so is neither aggressive or risk-averse) must deal with a more difficult problem. In particular, it is #P-complete to compute the distribution function associated with the average-case bound. On the positive side, approximate answers can be computed by using random sampling techniques similar to those for high-dimensional volume estimation. When k>2 stocks are considered, it is proved that a simple solution based on the same flow concepts as the 2-stock algorithm would imply that P = NP, so is highly unlikely. This work gives approximation algorithms for this case as well as exact algorithms for some important special cases.

A Blueprint for Building Serverless Applications on the Net

A peer-to-peer application architecture is proposed that has the potential to eliminate the back-end servers for hosting services on the Internet. The proposed application architecture has been modeled as a distributed system for delivering an Internet service. The service thus created, though chaotic and fraught with uncertainties, would be highly scalable and capable of achieving unprecedented levels of robustness and viability with the increase in the number of the users. The core issues relating to the architecture, such as service discovery, distributed application architecture components, and inter-application communications, have been analysed. It is shown that the communications for the coordination of various functions, among the cooperating instances of the application, may be optimised using a divide-and-conquer strategy. Finally, the areas where future work needs to be directed have been identified.

Algorithms for Boolean Function Query Properties

We present new algorithms to compute fundamental properties of a Boolean function given in truth-table form. Specifically, we give an O(N^2.322 log N) algorithm for block sensitivity, an O(N^1.585 log N) algorithm for `tree decomposition,' and an O(N) algorithm for `quasisymmetry.' These algorithms are based on new insights into the structure of Boolean functions that may be of independent interest. We also give a subexponential-time algorithm for the space-bounded quantum query complexity of a Boolean function. To prove this algorithm correct, we develop a theory of limited-precision representation of unitary operators, building on work of Bernstein and Vazirani.

Distributed Broadcast in Wireless Networks with Unknown Topology

A multi-hop synchronous wirelss network is said to be unknown if the nodes have no knowledge of the topology. A basic task in wireless network is that of broadcasting a message (created by a fixed source node) to all nodes of the network. The multi-broadcast that consists in performing a set of r independent broadcasts. In this paper, we study the completion and the termination time of distributed protocols for both the (single) broadcast and the multi-broadcast operations on unknown networks as functions of the number of nodes n, the maximum eccentricity D, the maximum in-degree Delta, and the congestion c of the networks. We establish new connections between these operations and some combinatorial concepts, such as selective families, strongly-selective families (also known as superimposed codes), and pairwise r-different families. Such connections, combined with a set of new lower and upper bounds on the size of the above families, allow us to derive new lower bounds and new distributed protocols for the broadcast and multi-broadcast operations. In particular, our upper bounds are almost tight and improve exponentially over the previous bounds when D and Delta are polylogarithmic in n. Network topologies having ``small'' eccentricity and ``small'' degree (such as bounded-degree expanders) are often used in practice to achieve efficient communication.

Three-Stage Quantitative Neural Network Model of the Tip-of-the-Tongue Phenomenon

A new three-stage computer artificial neural network model of the tip-of-the-tongue phenomenon is shortly described, and its stochastic nature was demonstrated. A way to calculate strength and appearance probability of tip-of-the-tongue states, neural network mechanism of feeling-of-knowing phenomenon are proposed. The model synthesizes memory, psycholinguistic, and metamemory approaches, bridges speech errors and naming chronometry research traditions. A model analysis of a tip-of-the-tongue case from Anton Chekhov's short story 'A Horsey Name' is performed. A new 'throw-up-one's-arms effect' is defined.

The Logic Programming Paradigm and Prolog

This is a tutorial on logic programming and Prolog appropriate for a course on programming languages for students familiar with imperative programming.

Transformations of CCP programs

We introduce a transformation system for concurrent constraint programming (CCP). We define suitable applicability conditions for the transformations which guarantee that the input/output CCP semantics is preserved also when distinguishing deadlocked computations from successful ones and when considering intermediate results of (possibly) non-terminating computations.
The system allows us to optimize CCP programs while preserving their intended meaning: In addition to the usual benefits that one has for sequential declarative languages, the transformation of concurrent programs can also lead to the elimination of communication channels and of synchronization points, to the transformation of non-deterministic computations into deterministic ones, and to the crucial saving of computational space. Furthermore, since the transformation system preserves the deadlock behavior of programs, it can be used for proving deadlock freeness of a given program wrt a class of queries. To this aim it is sometimes sufficient to apply our transformations and to specialize the resulting program wrt the given queries in such a way that the obtained program is trivially deadlock free.

From Neel to NPC: Colouring Small Worlds

In this note, we present results for the colouring problem on small world graphs created by rewiring square, triangular, and two kinds of cubic (with coordination numbers 5 and 6) lattices. As the rewiring parameter p tends to 1, we find the expected crossover to the behaviour of random graphs with corresponding connectivity. However, for the cubic lattices there is a region near p=0 for which the graphs are colourable. This could in principle be used as an additional heuristic for solving real world colouring or scheduling problems. Small worlds with connectivity 5 and p ~ 0.1 provide an interesting ensemble of graphs whose colourability is hard to determine. For square lattices, we get good data collapse plotting the fraction of colourable graphs against the rescaled parameter parameter $p N^{-ν}$ with $ν= 1.35$. No such collapse can be obtained for the data from lattices with coordination number 5 or 6.

Introduction to the CoNLL-2001 Shared Task: Clause Identification

We describe the CoNLL-2001 shared task: dividing text into clauses. We give background information on the data sets, present a general overview of the systems that have taken part in the shared task and briefly discuss their performance.

Learning Computational Grammars

This paper reports on the "Learning Computational Grammars" (LCG) project, a postdoc network devoted to studying the application of machine learning techniques to grammars suitable for computational use. We were interested in a more systematic survey to understand the relevance of many factors to the success of learning, esp. the availability of annotated data, the kind of dependencies in the data, and the availability of knowledge bases (grammars). We focused on syntax, esp. noun phrase (NP) syntax.

Combining a self-organising map with memory-based learning

Memory-based learning (MBL) has enjoyed considerable success in corpus-based natural language processing (NLP) tasks and is thus a reliable method of getting a high-level of performance when building corpus-based NLP systems. However there is a bottleneck in MBL whereby any novel testing item has to be compared against all the training items in memory base. For this reason there has been some interest in various forms of memory editing whereby some method of selecting a subset of the memory base is employed to reduce the number of comparisons. This paper investigates the use of a modified self-organising map (SOM) to select a subset of the memory items for comparison. This method involves reducing the number of comparisons to a value proportional to the square root of the number of training items. The method is tested on the identification of base noun-phrases in the Wall Street Journal corpus, using sections 15 to 18 for training and section 20 for testing.

Applying Natural Language Generation to Indicative Summarization

The task of creating indicative summaries that help a searcher decide whether to read a particular document is a difficult task. This paper examines the indicative summarization task from a generation perspective, by first analyzing its required content via published guidelines and corpus analysis. We show how these summaries can be factored into a set of document features, and how an implemented content planner uses the topicality document feature to create indicative multidocument query-based summaries.

Transformation-Based Learning in the Fast Lane

Transformation-based learning has been successfully employed to solve many natural language processing problems. It achieves state-of-the-art performance on many natural language processing tasks and does not overtrain easily. However, it does have a serious drawback: the training time is often intorelably long, especially on the large corpora which are often used in NLP. In this paper, we present a novel and realistic method for speeding up the training time of a transformation-based learner without sacrificing performance. The paper compares and contrasts the training time needed and performance achieved by our modified learner with two other systems: a standard transformation-based learner, and the ICA system \cite{hepple00:tbl}. The results of these experiments show that our system is able to achieve a significant improvement in training time while still achieving the same performance as a standard transformation-based learner. This is a valuable contribution to systems and algorithms which utilize transformation-based learning at any part of the execution.

Multidimensional Transformation-Based Learning

This paper presents a novel method that allows a machine learning algorithm following the transformation-based learning paradigm \cite{brill95:tagging} to be applied to multiple classification tasks by training jointly and simultaneously on all fields. The motivation for constructing such a system stems from the observation that many tasks in natural language processing are naturally composed of multiple subtasks which need to be resolved simultaneously; also tasks usually learned in isolation can possibly benefit from being learned in a joint framework, as the signals for the extra tasks usually constitute inductive bias.
The proposed algorithm is evaluated in two experiments: in one, the system is used to jointly predict the part-of-speech and text chunks/baseNP chunks of an English corpus; and in the second it is used to learn the joint prediction of word segment boundaries and part-of-speech tagging for Chinese. The results show that the simultaneous learning of multiple tasks does achieve an improvement in each task upon training the same tasks sequentially. The part-of-speech tagging result of 96.63% is state-of-the-art for individual systems on the particular train/test split.

An interactive semantics of logic programming

We apply to logic programming some recently emerging ideas from the field of reduction-based communicating systems, with the aim of giving evidence of the hidden interactions and the coordination mechanisms that rule the operational machinery of such a programming paradigm. The semantic framework we have chosen for presenting our results is tile logic, which has the advantage of allowing a uniform treatment of goals and observations and of applying abstract categorical tools for proving the results. As main contributions, we mention the finitary presentation of abstract unification, and a concurrent and coordinated abstract semantics consistent with the most common semantics of logic programming. Moreover, the compositionality of the tile semantics is guaranteed by standard results, as it reduces to check that the tile systems associated to logic programs enjoy the tile decomposition property. An extension of the approach for handling constraint systems is also discussed.

Enumerating Foldings and Unfoldings between Polygons and Polytopes

We pose and answer several questions concerning the number of ways to fold a polygon to a polytope, and how many polytopes can be obtained from one polygon; and the analogous questions for unfolding polytopes to polygons. Our answers are, roughly: exponentially many, or nondenumerably infinite.

Computer validated proofs of a toolset for adaptable arithmetic

Most existing implementations of multiple precision arithmetic demand that the user sets the precision {\em a priori}. Some libraries are said adaptable in the sense that they dynamically change the precision of each intermediate operation individually to deliver the target accuracy according to the actual inputs. We present in this text a new adaptable numeric core inspired both from floating point expansions and from on-line arithmetic.
The numeric core is cut down to four tools. The tool that contains arithmetic operations is proved to be correct. The proofs have been formally checked by the Coq assistant. Developing the proofs, we have formally proved many results published in the literature and we have extended a few of them. This work may let users (i) develop application specific adaptable libraries based on the toolset and / or (ii) write new formal proofs based on the set of validated facts.

Annotated revision programs

Revision programming is a formalism to describe and enforce updates of belief sets and databases. That formalism was extended by Fitting who assigned annotations to revision atoms. Annotations provide a way to quantify the confidence (probability) that a revision atom holds. The main goal of our paper is to reexamine the work of Fitting, argue that his semantics does not always provide results consistent with intuition, and to propose an alternative treatment of annotated revision programs. Our approach differs from that proposed by Fitting in two key aspects: we change the notion of a model of a program and we change the notion of a justified revision. We show that under this new approach fundamental properties of justified revisions of standard revision programs extend to the annotated case.

Fixed-parameter complexity of semantics for logic programs

A decision problem is called parameterized if its input is a pair of strings. One of these strings is referred to as a parameter. The problem: given a propositional logic program P and a non-negative integer k, decide whether P has a stable model of size no more than k, is an example of a parameterized decision problem with k serving as a parameter. Parameterized problems that are NP-complete often become solvable in polynomial time if the parameter is fixed. The problem to decide whether a program P has a stable model of size no more than k, where k is fixed and not a part of input, can be solved in time O(mn^k), where m is the size of P and n is the number of atoms in P. Thus, this problem is in the class P. However, algorithms with the running time given by a polynomial of order k are not satisfactory even for relatively small values of k.
The key question then is whether significantly better algorithms (with the degree of the polynomial not dependent on k) exist. To tackle it, we use the framework of fixed-parameter complexity. We establish the fixed-parameter complexity for several parameterized decision problems involving models, supported models and stable models of logic programs. We also establish the fixed-parameter complexity for variants of these problems resulting from restricting attention to Horn programs and to purely negative programs. Most of the problems considered in the paper have high fixed-parameter complexity. Thus, it is unlikely that fixing bounds on models (supported models, stable models) will lead to fast algorithms to decide the existence of such models.

Propositional satisfiability in answer-set programming

We show that propositional logic and its extensions can support answer-set programming in the same way stable logic programming and disjunctive logic programming do. To this end, we introduce a logic based on the logic of propositional schemata and on a version of the Closed World Assumption. We call it the extended logic of propositional schemata with CWA (PS+, in symbols). An important feature of this logic is that it supports explicit modeling of constraints on cardinalities of sets. In the paper, we characterize the class of problems that can be solved by finite PS+ theories. We implement a programming system based on the logic PS+ and design and implement a solver for processing theories in PS+. We present encouraging performance results for our approach --- we show it to be competitive with smodels, a state-of-the-art answer-set programming system based on stable logic programming.

aspps --- an implementation of answer-set programming with propositional schemata

We present an implementation of an answer-set programming paradigm, called aspps (short for answer-set programming with propositional schemata). The system aspps is designed to process PS+ theories. It consists of two basic modules. The first module, psgrnd, grounds an PS+ theory. The second module, referred to as aspps, is a solver. It computes models of ground PS+ theories.

The Complexity of Clickomania

We study a popular puzzle game known variously as Clickomania and Same Game. Basically, a rectangular grid of blocks is initially colored with some number of colors, and the player repeatedly removes a chosen connected monochromatic group of at least two square blocks, and any blocks above it fall down. We show that one-column puzzles can be solved, i.e., the maximum possible number of blocks can be removed, in linear time for two colors, and in polynomial time for an arbitrary number of colors. On the other hand, deciding whether a puzzle is solvable (all blocks can be removed) is NP-complete for two columns and five colors, or five columns and three colors.

Coupled Clustering: a Method for Detecting Structural Correspondence

This paper proposes a new paradigm and computational framework for identification of correspondences between sub-structures of distinct composite systems. For this, we define and investigate a variant of traditional data clustering, termed coupled clustering, which simultaneously identifies corresponding clusters within two data sets. The presented method is demonstrated and evaluated for detecting topical correspondences in textual corpora.

Yet another zeta function and learning

We study the convergence speed of the batch learning algorithm, and compare its speed to that of the memoryless learning algorithm and of learning with memory (as analyzed in joint work with N. Komarova). We obtain precise results and show in particular that the batch learning algorithm is never worse than the memoryless learning algorithm (at least asymptotically). Its performance vis-a-vis learning with full memory is less clearcut, and depends on certainprobabilistic assumptions. These results necessitate theintroduction of the moment zeta function of a probability distribution and the study of some of its properties.

NEOS Server 4.0 Administrative Guide

The NEOS Server 4.0 provides a general Internet-based client/server as a link between users and software applications. The administrative guide covers the fundamental principals behind the operation of the NEOS Server, installation and trouble-shooting of the Server software, and implementation details of potential interest to a NEOS Server administrator. The guide also discusses making new software applications available through the Server, including areas of concern to remote solver administrators such as maintaining security, providing usage instructions, and enforcing reasonable restrictions on jobs. The administrative guide is intended both as an introduction to the NEOS Server and as a reference for use when running the Server.

Semantic Web Content Accessibility Guidelines for Current Research Information Systems (CRIS)

The most exciting challenge for CRIS is to create a service for research information which should be wide-spread, distributed and actual like Google, but at the same time structured, trusted, with a complex search and navigation similar to today CRIS application. The core technology for such a "new" CRIS is the semantic web technology to integrate database contents with HTML and XML web pages for being provided to the research interested public. One (at the moment the best) possible way is to use RDF (Resource Description Framework) which is also recommended by the W3 consortium.

TeXmacs interfaces to Maxima, MuPAD and REDUCE

GNU TeXmacs is a free wysiwyg word processor providing an excellent typesetting quality of texts and formulae. It can also be used as an interface to Computer Algebra Systems (CASs). In the present work, interfaces to three general-purpose CASs have been implemented.

The Cactus Worm: Experiments with Dynamic Resource Discovery and Allocation in a Grid Environment

The ability to harness heterogeneous, dynamically available "Grid" resources is attractive to typically resource-starved computational scientists and engineers, as in principle it can increase, by significant factors, the number of cycles that can be delivered to applications. However, new adaptive application structures and dynamic runtime system mechanisms are required if we are to operate effectively in Grid environments. In order to explore some of these issues in a practical setting, we are developing an experimental framework, called Cactus, that incorporates both adaptive application structures for dealing with changing resource characteristics and adaptive resource selection mechanisms that allow applications to change their resource allocations (e.g., via migration) when performance falls outside specified limits. We describe here the adaptive resource selection mechanisms and describe how they are used to achieve automatic application migration to "better" resources following performance degradation. Our results provide insights into the architectural structures required to support adaptive resource selection. In addition, we suggest that this "Cactus Worm" is an interesting challenge problem for Grid computing.

Bounded Concurrent Timestamp Systems Using Vector Clocks

Shared registers are basic objects used as communication mediums in asynchronous concurrent computation. A concurrent timestamp system is a higher typed communication object, and has been shown to be a powerful tool to solve many concurrency control problems. It has turned out to be possible to construct such higher typed objects from primitive lower typed ones. The next step is to find efficient constructions. We propose a very efficient wait-free construction of bounded concurrent timestamp systems from 1-writer multireader registers. This finalizes, corrects, and extends, a preliminary bounded multiwriter construction proposed by the second author in 1986. That work partially initiated the current interest in wait-free concurrent objects, and introduced a notion of discrete vector clocks in distributed algorithms.

The Partial Evaluation Approach to Information Personalization

Information personalization refers to the automatic adjustment of information content, structure, and presentation tailored to an individual user. By reducing information overload and customizing information access, personalization systems have emerged as an important segment of the Internet economy. This paper presents a systematic modeling methodology - PIPE (`Personalization is Partial Evaluation') - for personalization. Personalization systems are designed and implemented in PIPE by modeling an information-seeking interaction in a programmatic representation. The representation supports the description of information-seeking activities as partial information and their subsequent realization by partial evaluation, a technique for specializing programs. We describe the modeling methodology at a conceptual level and outline representational choices. We present two application case studies that use PIPE for personalizing web sites and describe how PIPE suggests a novel evaluation criterion for information system designs. Finally, we mention several fundamental implications of adopting the PIPE model for personalization and when it is (and is not) applicable.

Links tell us about lexical and semantic Web content

The latest generation of Web search tools is beginning to exploit hypertext link information to improve ranking\cite{Brin98,Kleinberg98} and crawling\cite{Menczer00,Ben-Shaul99etal,Chakrabarti99} algorithms. The hidden assumption behind such approaches, a correlation between the graph structure of the Web and its content, has not been tested explicitly despite increasing research on Web topology\cite{Lawrence98,Albert99,Adamic99,Butler00}. Here I formalize and quantitatively validate two conjectures drawing connections from link information to lexical and semantic Web content. The clink-content conjecture states that a page is similar to the pages that link to it, i.e., one can infer the lexical content of a page by looking at the pages that link to it. I also show that lexical inferences based on link cues are quite heterogeneous across Web communities. The link-cluster conjecture states that pages about the same topic are clustered together, i.e., one can infer the meaning of a page by looking at its neighbours. These results explain the success of the newest search technologies and open the way for more dynamic and scalable methods to locate information in a topic or user driven way.

A Bit of Progress in Language Modeling

In the past several years, a number of different language modeling improvements over simple trigram models have been found, including caching, higher-order n-grams, skipping, interpolated Kneser-Ney smoothing, and clustering. We present explorations of variations on, or of the limits of, each of these techniques, including showing that sentence mixture models may have more potential. While all of these techniques have been studied separately, they have rarely been studied in combination. We find some significant interactions, especially with smoothing and clustering techniques. We compare a combination of all techniques together to a Katz smoothed trigram model with no count cutoffs. We achieve perplexity reductions between 38% and 50% (1 bit of entropy), depending on training data size, as well as a word error rate reduction of 8.9%. Our perplexity reductions are perhaps the highest reported compared to a fair baseline. This is the extended version of the paper; it contains additional details and proofs, and is designed to be a good introduction to the state of the art in language modeling.

Classes for Fast Maximum Entropy Training

Maximum entropy models are considered by many to be one of the most promising avenues of language modeling research. Unfortunately, long training times make maximum entropy research difficult. We present a novel speedup technique: we change the form of the model to use classes. Our speedup works by creating two maximum entropy models, the first of which predicts the class of each word, and the second of which predicts the word itself. This factoring of the model leads to fewer non-zero indicator functions, and faster normalization, achieving speedups of up to a factor of 35 over one of the best previous techniques. It also results in typically slightly lower perplexities. The same trick can be used to speed training of other machine learning techniques, e.g. neural networks, applied to any problem with a large number of outputs, such as language modeling.

Abstract versus Concrete Computation on Metric Partial Algebras

A model of computation is abstract if, when applied to any algebra, the resulting programs for computable functions and sets on that algebra are invariant under isomorphisms, and hence do not depend on a representation for the algebra. Otherwise it is concrete. Intuitively, concrete models depend on the implementation of the algebra.
The difference is particularly striking in the case of topological partial algebras, and notably in algebras over the reals. We investigate the relationship between abstract and concrete models of partial metric algebras. In the course of this investigation, interesting aspects of continuity, extensionality and non-determinism are uncovered.

Using Methods of Declarative Logic Programming for Intelligent Information Agents

The search for information on the web is faced with several problems, which arise on the one hand from the vast number of available sources, and on the other hand from their heterogeneity. A promising approach is the use of multi-agent systems of information agents, which cooperatively solve advanced information-retrieval problems. This requires capabilities to address complex tasks, such as search and assessment of sources, query planning, information merging and fusion, dealing with incomplete information, and handling of inconsistency. In this paper, our interest is in the role which some methods from the field of declarative logic programming can play in the realization of reasoning capabilities for information agents. In particular, we are interested in how they can be used and further developed for the specific needs of this application domain. We review some existing systems and current projects, which address information-integration problems. We then focus on declarative knowledge-representation methods, and review and evaluate approaches from logic programming and nonmonotonic reasoning for information agents. We discuss advantages and drawbacks, and point out possible extensions and open issues.

Artificial Neurons with Arbitrarily Complex Internal Structures

Artificial neurons with arbitrarily complex internal structure are introduced. The neurons can be described in terms of a set of internal variables, a set activation functions which describe the time evolution of these variables and a set of characteristic functions which control how the neurons interact with one another. The information capacity of attractor networks composed of these generalized neurons is shown to reach the maximum allowed bound. A simple example taken from the domain of pattern recognition demonstrates the increased computational power of these neurons. Furthermore, a specific class of generalized neurons gives rise to a simple transformation relating attractor networks of generalized neurons to standard three layer feed-forward networks. Given this correspondence, we conjecture that the maximum information capacity of a three layer feed-forward network is 2 bits per weight.

On Classes of Functions for which No Free Lunch Results Hold

In a recent paper it was shown that No Free Lunch results hold for any subset F of the set of all possible functions from a finite set X to a finite set Y iff F is closed under permutation of X. In this article, we prove that the number of those subsets can be neglected compared to the overall number of possible subsets. Further, we present some arguments why problem classes relevant in practice are not likely to be closed under permutation.

Convergent Approximate Solving of First-Order Constraints by Approximate Quantifiers

Exactly solving first-order constraints (i.e., first-order formulas over a certain predefined structure) can be a very hard, or even undecidable problem. In continuous structures like the real numbers it is promising to compute approximate solutions instead of exact ones. However, the quantifiers of the first-order predicate language are an obstacle to allowing approximations to arbitrary small error bounds. In this paper we solve the problem by modifying the first-order language and replacing the classical quantifiers with approximate quantifiers. These also have two additional advantages: First, they are tunable, in the sense that they allow the user to decide on the trade-off between precision and efficiency. Second, they introduce additional expressivity into the first-order language by allowing reasoning over the size of solution sets.

What's Fit To Print: The Effect Of Ownership Concentration On Product Variety In Daily Newspaper Markets

This paper examines the effect of ownership concentration on product position, product variety and readership in markets for daily newspapers. US antitrust policy presumes that mergers reduce the amount and diversity of content available to consumers. However, the effects of consolidation in differentiated product markets cannot be determined solely from theory. Because multi-product firms internalize business stealing, mergers may encourage firms to reposition products, leading to more, not less, variety. Using data on reporter assignments from 1993-1999, results show that differentiation and variety increase with concentration. Moreover, there is evidence that additional variety increases readership, suggesting that concentration benefits consumers.

Spiders and Crawlers and Bots, Oh My: The Economic Efficiency and Public Policy of Contracts that Restrict Data Collection

Recent trends reveal the search by companies for a legal hook to prevent the undesired and unauthorized copying of information posted on websites. In the center of this controversy are metasites, websites that display prices for a variety of vendors. Metasites function by implementing shopbots, which extract pricing data from other vendors' websites. Technological mechanisms have proved unsuccessful in blocking shopbots, and in response, websites have asserted a variety of legal claims. Two recent cases, which rely on the troublesome trespass to chattels doctrine, suggest that contract law may provide a less demanding legal method of preventing the search of websites by data robots. If blocking collection of pricing data is as simple as posting an online contract, the question arises whether this end result is desirable and legally viable.

Verifying Sequential Consistency on Shared-Memory Multiprocessors by Model Checking

The memory model of a shared-memory multiprocessor is a contract between the designer and programmer of the multiprocessor. The sequential consistency memory model specifies a total order among the memory (read and write) events performed at each processor. A trace of a memory system satisfies sequential consistency if there exists a total order of all memory events in the trace that is both consistent with the total order at each processor and has the property that every read event to a location returns the value of the last write to that location.
Descriptions of shared-memory systems are typically parameterized by the number of processors, the number of memory locations, and the number of data values. It has been shown that even for finite parameter values, verifying sequential consistency on general shared-memory systems is undecidable. We observe that, in practice, shared-memory systems satisfy the properties of causality and data independence. Causality is the property that values of read events flow from values of write events. Data independence is the property that all traces can be generated by renaming data values from traces where the written values are distinct from each other. If a causal and data independent system also has the property that the logical order of write events to each location is identical to their temporal order, then sequential consistency can be verified algorithmically. Specifically, we present a model checking algorithm to verify sequential consistency on such systems for a finite number of processors and memory locations and an arbitrary number of data values.

Security Considerations for Remote Electronic Voting over the Internet

This paper discusses the security considerations for remote electronic voting in public elections. In particular, we examine the feasibility of running national federal elections over the Internet. The focus of this paper is on the limitations of the current deployed infrastructure in terms of the security of the hosts and the Internet itself. We conclude that at present, our infrastructure is inadequate for remote Internet voting.

Bipartite graph partitioning and data clustering

Many data types arising from data mining applications can be modeled as bipartite graphs, examples include terms and documents in a text corpus, customers and purchasing items in market basket analysis and reviewers and movies in a movie recommender system. In this paper, we propose a new data clustering method based on partitioning the underlying bipartite graph. The partition is constructed by minimizing a normalized sum of edge weights between unmatched pairs of vertices of the bipartite graph. We show that an approximate solution to the minimization problem can be obtained by computing a partial singular value decomposition (SVD) of the associated edge weight matrix of the bipartite graph. We point out the connection of our clustering algorithm to correspondence analysis used in multivariate analysis. We also briefly discuss the issue of assigning data objects to multiple clusters. In the experimental results, we apply our clustering algorithm to the problem of document clustering to illustrate its effectiveness and efficiency.

Scalable Unix Commands for Parallel Processors: A High-Performance Implementation

We describe a family of MPI applications we call the Parallel Unix Commands. These commands are natural parallel versions of common Unix user commands such as ls, ps, and find, together with a few similar commands particular to the parallel environment. We describe the design and implementation of these programs and present some performance results on a 256-node Linux cluster. The Parallel Unix Commands are open source and freely available.

Computational Geometry Column 42

A compendium of thirty previously published open problems in computational geometry is presented.

Portability of Syntactic Structure for Language Modeling

The paper presents a study on the portability of statistical syntactic knowledge in the framework of the structured language model (SLM). We investigate the impact of porting SLM statistics from the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) to the Air Travel Information System (ATIS) domain. We compare this approach to applying the Microsoft rule-based parser (NLPwin) for the ATIS data and to using a small amount of data manually parsed at UPenn for gathering the intial SLM statistics. Surprisingly, despite the fact that it performs modestly in perplexity (PPL), the model initialized on WSJ parses outperforms the other initialization methods based on in-domain annotated data, achieving a significant 0.4% absolute and 7% relative reduction in word error rate (WER) over a baseline system whose word error rate is 5.8%; the improvement measured relative to the minimum WER achievable on the N-best lists we worked with is 12%.

Information Extraction Using the Structured Language Model

The paper presents a data-driven approach to information extraction (viewed as template filling) using the structured language model (SLM) as a statistical parser. The task of template filling is cast as constrained parsing using the SLM. The model is automatically trained from a set of sentences annotated with frame/slot labels and spans. Training proceeds in stages: first a constrained syntactic parser is trained such that the parses on training data meet the specified semantic spans, then the non-terminal labels are enriched to contain semantic information and finally a constrained syntactic+semantic parser is trained on the parse trees resulting from the previous stage. Despite the small amount of training data used, the model is shown to outperform the slot level accuracy of a simple semantic grammar authored manually for the MiPad --- personal information management --- task.

Abstract Computability, Algebraic Specification and Initiality

computable functions are defined by abstract finite deterministic algorithms on many-sorted algebras. We show that there exist finite universal algebraic specifications that specify uniquely (up to isomorphism) (i) all abstract computable functions on any many-sorted algebra; and (ii) all functions effectively approximable by abstract computable functions on any metric algebra.
We show that there exist universal algebraic specifications for all the classically computable functions on the set R of real numbers. The algebraic specifications used are mainly bounded universal equations and conditional equations. We investigate the initial algebra semantics of these specifications, and derive situations where algebraic specifications define precisely the computable functions.

Probabilistic asynchronous pi-calculus

We propose an extension of the asynchronous pi-calculus with a notion of random choice. We define an operational semantics which distinguishes between probabilistic choice, made internally by the process, and nondeterministic choice, made externally by an adversary scheduler. This distinction will allow us to reason about the probabilistic correctness of algorithms under certain schedulers. We show that in this language we can solve the electoral problem, which was proved not possible in the asynchronous $π$-calculus. Finally, we show an implementation of the probabilistic asynchronous pi-calculus in a Java-like language.

On the generalized dining philosophers problem

We consider a generalization of the dining philosophers problem to arbitrary connection topologies. We focus on symmetric, fully distributed systems, and we address the problem of guaranteeing progress and lockout-freedom, even in presence of adversary schedulers, by using randomized algorithms. We show that the well-known algorithms of Lehmann and Rabin do not work in the generalized case, and we propose an alternative algorithm based on the idea of letting the philosophers assign a random priority to their adjacent forks.

Architectural Framework for Large-Scale Multicast in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks

Emerging ad hoc networks are infrastructure-less networks consisting of wireless devices with various power constraints, capabilities and mobility characteristics. An essential capability in future ad hoc networks is the ability to provide scalable multicast services. This paper presents a novel adaptive architecture to support multicast services in large-scale wide-area ad hoc networks. Existing works on multicast in ad hoc networks address only small size networks. Our main design goals are scalability, robustness and efficiency. We propose a self-configuring hierarchy extending zone-based routing with the notion of contacts based on the small world graphs phenomenon and new metrics of stability and mobility. We introduce a new geographic-based multicast address allocation scheme coupled with adaptive anycast based on group popularity. Our scheme is the first of its kind and promises efficient and robust operation in the common case. Also, based on the new concept of rendezvous regions, we provide a bootstrap mechanism for the multicast service; a challenge generally ignored in previous work.

On Properties of Update Sequences Based on Causal Rejection

We consider an approach to update nonmonotonic knowledge bases represented as extended logic programs under answer set semantics. New information is incorporated into the current knowledge base subject to a causal rejection principle enforcing that, in case of conflicts, more recent rules are preferred and older rules are overridden. Such a rejection principle is also exploited in other approaches to update logic programs, e.g., in dynamic logic programming by Alferes et al. We give a thorough analysis of properties of our approach, to get a better understanding of the causal rejection principle. We review postulates for update and revision operators from the area of theory change and nonmonotonic reasoning, and some new properties are considered as well. We then consider refinements of our semantics which incorporate a notion of minimality of change. As well, we investigate the relationship to other approaches, showing that our approach is semantically equivalent to inheritance programs by Buccafurri et al. and that it coincides with certain classes of dynamic logic programs, for which we provide characterizations in terms of graph conditions. Therefore, most of our results about properties of causal rejection principle apply to these approaches as well. Finally, we deal with computational complexity of our approach, and outline how the update semantics and its refinements can be implemented on top of existing logic programming engines.

Voice vs Data: Estimates of Media Usage and Network Traffic

The popular conception is that data traffic nearly, if not already, exceeds voice traffic on backbone networks. However, the results of research reported in this paper imply that voice traffic greatly exceeds data traffic when real users are asked to estimate their usage of a wide variety of media. Media usage was surveyed for students in New York City and in Los Angeles. Other than significant differences in radio listening, e-mails, and downloads, the usage was quite similar. Telephone usage (wired and wireless) was nearly an hour per day. When converted to bits, the telephone traffic was much greater than the data traffic over the Internet. This paper reports on the details of the two user studies. The traffic implications of the results are estimated. The finding that voice exceeds data will then be reconciled with the popular opposite conception.

The Role of Incentives for Opening Monopoly Markets: Comparing GTE and BOC Cooperation with Local Entrants

While the 1996 Telecommunications Act requires all incumbent local telephone companies to cooperate with local entrants, section 271 of the Act provides the Bell companies (but not GTE) additional incentives to cooperate. Using an original data set, I compare the negotiations of AT&T, as a local entrant, with GTE and with the Bell companies in states where both operate. My results suggest that the differential incentives matter: The Bells accommodate entry more than does GTE, as evidenced in quicker agreements, less litigation, and more favorable prices offered for network access. Consistent with this, there is more entry into Bell territories

The Effect of Native Language on Internet Usage

Our goal is to distinguish between the following two hypotheses: (A) The Internet will remain disproportionately in English and will, over time, cause more people to learn English as second language and thus solidify the role of English as a global language. This outcome will prevail even though there are more native Chinese and Spanish speakers than there are native English speakers. (B) As the Internet matures, it will more accurately reflect the native languages spoken around the world (perhaps weighted by purchasing power) and will not promote English as a global language.
English's "early lead" on the web is more likely to persist if those who are not native English speakers frequently access the large number of English language web sites that are currently available. In that case, many existing web sites will have little incentive to develop non-English versions of their sites, and new sites will tend to gravitate towards English. The key empirical question, therefore, is whether individuals whose native language is not English use the Web, or certain types of Web sites, less than do native English speakers. In order to examine this issue empirically, we employ a unique data set on Internet use at the individual level in Canada from Media Metrix. Canada provides an ideal setting to examine this issue because English is one of the two official languages.
Our preliminary results suggest that English web sites are not a barrier to Internet use for French-speaking Quebecois. These preliminary results are consistent with the scenario in which the Internet will promote English as a global language.

Anaphora and Discourse Structure

We argue in this paper that many common adverbial phrases generally taken to signal a discourse relation between syntactically connected units within discourse structure, instead work anaphorically to contribute relational meaning, with only indirect dependence on discourse structure. This allows a simpler discourse structure to provide scaffolding for compositional semantics, and reveals multiple ways in which the relational meaning conveyed by adverbial connectives can interact with that associated with discourse structure. We conclude by sketching out a lexicalised grammar for discourse that facilitates discourse interpretation as a product of compositional rules, anaphor resolution and inference.

Communication Complexity and Secure Function Evaluation

We suggest two new methodologies for the design of efficient secure protocols, that differ with respect to their underlying computational models. In one methodology we utilize the communication complexity tree (or branching for f and transform it into a secure protocol. In other words, "any function f that can be computed using communication complexity c can be can be computed securely using communication complexity that is polynomial in c and a security parameter". The second methodology uses the circuit computing f, enhanced with look-up tables as its underlying computational model. It is possible to simulate any RAM machine in this model with polylogarithmic blowup. Hence it is possible to start with a computation of f on a RAM machine and transform it into a secure protocol.
We show many applications of these new methodologies resulting in protocols efficient either in communication or in computation. In particular, we exemplify a protocol for the "millionaires problem", where two participants want to compare their values but reveal no other information. Our protocol is more efficient than previously known ones in either communication or computation.

Is There a There There: Towards Greater Certainty for Internet Jurisdiction

The unique challenge presented by the Internet is that compliance with local laws is rarely sufficient to assure a business that it has limited its exposure to legal risk. The paper identifies why the challenge of adequately accounting for the legal risk arising from Internet jurisdiction has been aggravated in recent years by the adoption of the Zippo legal framework, commonly referred to as the passive versus active test. The test provides parties with only limited guidance and often results in detrimental judicial decisions from a policy perspective. Given the inadequacies of the Zippo passive versus active test, the paper argues that it is now fitting to identify a more effective standard for determining when it is appropriate to assert jurisdiction in cases involving predominantly Internet-based contacts. The solution submitted in the paper is to move toward a targeting-based analysis. Unlike the Zippo approach, a targeting analysis would seek to identify the intentions of the parties and to assess the steps taken to either enter or avoid a particular jurisdiction. Targeting would also lessen the reliance on effects-based analysis, the source of considerable uncertainty since Internet-based activity can ordinarily be said to create some effects in most jurisdictions. To identify the appropriate criteria for a targeting test, the paper recommends returning to the core jurisdictional principle -- foreseeability. Foreseeability in the targeting context depends on three factors -- contracts, technology, and actual or implied knowledge.

Conceptual Analysis of Lexical Taxonomies: The Case of WordNet Top-Level

In this paper we propose an analysis and an upgrade of WordNet's top-level synset taxonomy. We briefly review WordNet and identify its main semantic limitations. Some principles from a forthcoming OntoClean methodology are applied to the ontological analysis of WordNet. A revised top-level taxonomy is proposed, which is meant to be more conceptually rigorous, cognitively transparent, and efficiently exploitable in several applications.

Assigning Satisfaction Values to Constraints: An Algorithm to Solve Dynamic Meta-Constraints

The model of Dynamic Meta-Constraints has special activity constraints which can activate other constraints. It also has meta-constraints which range over other constraints. An algorithm is presented in which constraints can be assigned one of five different satisfaction values, which leads to the assignment of domain values to the variables in the CSP. An outline of the model and the algorithm is presented, followed by some initial results for two problems: a simple classic CSP and the Car Configuration Problem. The algorithm is shown to perform few backtracks per solution, but to have overheads in the form of historical records required for the implementation of state.

Boosting Trees for Anti-Spam Email Filtering

This paper describes a set of comparative experiments for the problem of automatically filtering unwanted electronic mail messages. Several variants of the AdaBoost algorithm with confidence-rated predictions [Schapire & Singer, 99] have been applied, which differ in the complexity of the base learners considered. Two main conclusions can be drawn from our experiments: a) The boosting-based methods clearly outperform the baseline learning algorithms (Naive Bayes and Induction of Decision Trees) on the PU1 corpus, achieving very high levels of the F1 measure; b) Increasing the complexity of the base learners allows to obtain better ``high-precision'' classifiers, which is a very important issue when misclassification costs are considered.

Communications Convergence, Spectrum Use and Regulatory Constraints, Or Property Rights, Flexible Spectrum Use and Satellite v. Terrestrial Uses and Users

As far as many consumers and businessmen and women are concerned, increasingly wireline and wireless services, including those provided by terrestrial and satellite systems, are considered to be substitutes and sometimes complements, regardless of the laws and regulations applicable to them. At the same time, many writers and even government agencies (such as the FCC) have suggested that users of the spectrum should be given more property-like rights in the use of the spectrum and at a minimum should be given much more flexibility in how they may use the spectrum. Two recent developments have important implications with respect to "convergence," spectrum property rights and flexible use of the spectrum. The first development involves several proposals to provide terrestrial wireless services within spectrum in use or planned to be used to provide satellite services. The second development is the passage of the 2000 ORBIT Act which specifically forbids the use of license auctions to select among mutually exclusive applicants to provide international or global satellite communications service. The purpose of this paper is to discuss some of the questions raised by these two events, but not necessarily to provide definitive answers or solutions.

Learning from the Success of MPI

The Message Passing Interface (MPI) has been extremely successful as a portable way to program high-performance parallel computers. This success has occurred in spite of the view of many that message passing is difficult and that other approaches, including automatic parallelization and directive-based parallelism, are easier to use. This paper argues that MPI has succeeded because it addresses all of the important issues in providing a parallel programming model.

Modelling Semantic Association and Conceptual Inheritance for Semantic Analysis

Allowing users to interact through language borders is an interesting challenge for information technology. For the purpose of a computer assisted language learning system, we have chosen icons for representing meaning on the input interface, since icons do not depend on a particular language. However, a key limitation of this type of communication is the expression of articulated ideas instead of isolated concepts. We propose a method to interpret sequences of icons as complex messages by reconstructing the relations between concepts, so as to build conceptual graphs able to represent meaning and to be used for natural language sentence generation. This method is based on an electronic dictionary containing semantic information.

Competing DNS Roots: Creative Destruction or Just Plain Destruction?

The Internet Domain Name System (DNS) is a hierarchical name space that enables the assignment of unique, mnemonic identifiers to Internet hosts and the consistent mapping of these names to IP addresses. The root of the domain name system is the top of the hierarchy and is currently managed by a quasi-private centralized regulatory authority, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). This paper identifies and discusses the economic and policy issues raised by competing DNS roots. The paper provides a precise definition of root-competition and shows that multiple roots are a species of standards competition, in which network externalities play a major role. The paper performs a structural analysis of the different forms that competing DNS roots can take and their effects on end-user compatibility. It then explores the policy implications of the various forms of competition.
The thesis of the paper is that root competition is caused by a severe disjunction between the demand for and supply of top-level domain names. ICANN has authorized a tiny number of new top-level domains (7) and subjected their operators to excruciatingly slow and expensive contractual negotiations. The growth of alternate DNS roots is an attempt to bypass that bottleneck. The paper arrives at the policy conclusion that competition among DNS roots should be permitted and is a healthy outlet for inefficiency or abuses of power by the dominant root administrator.

Interactive Timetabling

Timetabling is a typical application of constraint programming whose task is to allocate activities to slots in available resources respecting various constraints like precedence and capacity. In this paper we present a basic concept, a constraint model, and the solving algorithms for interactive timetabling. Interactive timetabling combines automated timetabling (the machine allocates the activities) with user interaction (the user can interfere with the process of timetabling). Because the user can see how the timetabling proceeds and can intervene this process, we believe that such approach is more convenient than full automated timetabling which behaves like a black-box. The contribution of this paper is twofold: we present a generic model to describe timetabling (and scheduling in general) problems and we propose an interactive algorithm for solving such problems.

Integrating Multiple Knowledge Sources for Robust Semantic Parsing

This work explores a new robust approach for Semantic Parsing of unrestricted texts. Our approach considers Semantic Parsing as a Consistent Labelling Problem (CLP), allowing the integration of several knowledge types (syntactic and semantic) obtained from different sources (linguistic and statistic). The current implementation obtains 95% accuracy in model identification and 72% in case-role filling.

Verification of Timed Automata Using Rewrite Rules and Strategies

ELAN is a powerful language and environment for specifying and prototyping deduction systems in a language based on rewrite rules controlled by strategies. Timed automata is a class of continuous real-time models of reactive systems for which efficient model-checking algorithms have been devised. In this paper, we show that these algorithms can very easily be prototyped in the ELAN system. This paper argues through this example that rewriting based systems relying on rules and strategies are a good framework to prototype, study and test rather efficiently symbolic model-checking algorithms, i.e. algorithms which involve combination of graph exploration rules, deduction rules, constraint solving techniques and decision procedures.

Dynamic Global Constraints: A First View

Global constraints proved themselves to be an efficient tool for modelling and solving large-scale real-life combinatorial problems. They encapsulate a set of binary constraints and using global reasoning about this set they filter the domains of involved variables better than arc consistency among the set of binary constraints. Moreover, global constraints exploit semantic information to achieve more efficient filtering than generalised consistency algorithms for n-ary constraints. Continued expansion of constraint programming (CP) to various application areas brings new challenges for design of global constraints. In particular, application of CP to advanced planning and scheduling (APS) requires dynamic additions of new variables and constraints during the process of constraint satisfaction and, thus, it would be helpful if the global constraints could adopt new variables. In the paper, we give a motivation for such dynamic global constraints and we describe a dynamic version of the well-known alldifferent constraint.

Conceptualising Regulatory Change - Explaining Shifts in Telecommunications Governance

Drawing on perspectives from telecommunications policy and neo-Gramscian understandings of international political economy, this paper offers an explanation and analysis of the shifting patterns of regulation which have been evident in the telecommunications sector in recent years. It aims to illustrate explain and explore the implications of the movement of regulatory sovereignty away from the nation-state, through regional conduits, to global organisations in the crystallisation of a world system of telecommunications governance.
Our central argument is that telecommunications governance has evolved from a regulatory arena characterised, in large part, by national diversity, to one wherein a more convergent global multilayered system is emerging. We suggest that the epicentre of this regulatory system is the relatively new World Trade Organisation (WTO). Working in concert with the WTO are existing well-established nodes regulation. In further complement, we see regional regulatory projects, notably the European Union (EU), as important conduits and nodes of regulation in the consolidation of a global regulatory regime.
By way of procedure, we first explore the utility of a neo-Gramscian approach for understanding the development of global regulatory frameworks. Second, we survey something of the recent history - and, in extension, conventional wisdom - of telecommunications regulation at national and regional levels. Third, we demonstrate how a multilayered system of global telecommunications regulation has emerged centred around the regulatory authority of the WTO. Finally, we offer our concluding comments.

Routing Permutations in Partitioned Optical Passive Star Networks

It is shown that a POPS network with g groups and d processors per group can efficiently route any permutation among the n=dg processors. The number of slots used is optimal in the worst case, and is at most the double of the optimum for all permutations p such that p(i)<>i for all i.

Random Walks in Routing Landscapes

In this paper we present a combinatorial optimisation view on the routing problem for connectionless packet networks by using the metaphor of a landscape. We examine the main properties of the routing landscapes as we define them and how they can help us on the evaluation of the problem difficulty and the generation of effective algorithms. We also present the random walk statistical technique to evaluate the main properties of those landscapes and a number of examples to demonstrate the use of the method.

Learning class-to-class selectional preferences

Selectional preference learning methods have usually focused on word-to-class relations, e.g., a verb selects as its subject a given nominal class. This papers extends previous statistical models to class-to-class preferences, and presents a model that learns selectional preferences for classes of verbs. The motivation is twofold: different senses of a verb may have different preferences, and some classes of verbs can share preferences. The model is tested on a word sense disambiguation task which uses subject-verb and object-verb relationships extracted from a small sense-disambiguated corpus.

Knowledge Sources for Word Sense Disambiguation

Two kinds of systems have been defined during the long history of WSD: principled systems that define which knowledge types are useful for WSD, and robust systems that use the information sources at hand, such as, dictionaries, light-weight ontologies or hand-tagged corpora. This paper tries to systematize the relation between desired knowledge types and actual information sources. We also compare the results for a wide range of algorithms that have been evaluated on a common test setting in our research group. We hope that this analysis will help change the shift from systems based on information sources to systems based on knowledge sources. This study might also shed some light on semi-automatic acquisition of desired knowledge types from existing resources.

Enriching WordNet concepts with topic signatures

This paper explores the possibility of enriching the content of existing ontologies. The overall goal is to overcome the lack of topical links among concepts in WordNet. Each concept is to be associated to a topic signature, i.e., a set of related words with associated weights. The signatures can be automatically constructed from the WWW or from sense-tagged corpora. Both approaches are compared and evaluated on a word sense disambiguation task. The results show that it is possible to construct clean signatures from the WWW using some filtering techniques.

The Internet, 1995-2000: Access, Civic Involvement, and Social Interaction

Our research, which began fielding surveys in 1995, and which have been repeated with variation in 1996, 1997 and 2000, was apparently the first to use national random telephone survey methods to track social and community aspects of Internet use, and to compare users and non-users. It also seems to be among the first that used these methods to compare users with non-users in regards to communication, social and community issues. The work has been largely supported by grants from the Markle Foundation of New York City as well as the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
Abridged, see full text for complete abstract.

CLP versus LS on Log-based Reconciliation Problems

Nomadic applications create replicas of shared objects that evolve independently while they are disconnected. When reconnecting, the system has to reconcile the divergent replicas. In the log-based approach to reconciliation, such as in the IceCube system, the input is a common initial state and logs of actions that were performed on each replica. The output is a consistent global schedule that maximises the number of accepted actions. The reconciler merges the logs according to the schedule, and replays the operations in the merged log against the initial state, yielding to a reconciled common final state.
In this paper, we show the NP-completeness of the log-based reconciliation problem and present two programs for solving it. Firstly, a constraint logic program (CLP) that uses integer constraints for expressing precedence constraints, boolean constraints for expressing dependencies between actions, and some heuristics for guiding the search. Secondly, a stochastic local search method with Tabu heuristic (LS), that computes solutions in an incremental fashion but does not prove optimality. One difficulty in the LS modeling lies in the handling of both boolean variables and integer variables, and in the handling of the objective function which differs from a max-CSP problem. Preliminary evaluation results indicate better performance for the CLP program which, on somewhat realistic benchmarks, finds nearly optimal solutions up to a thousands of actions and proves optimality up to a hundreds of actions.

Relevant Knowledge First - Reinforcement Learning and Forgetting in Knowledge Based Configuration

In order to solve complex configuration tasks in technical domains, various knowledge based methods have been developed. However their applicability is often unsuccessful due to their low efficiency. One of the reasons for this is that (parts of the) problems have to be solved again and again, instead of being "learnt" from preceding processes. However, learning processes bring with them the problem of conservatism, for in technical domains innovation is a deciding factor in competition. On the other hand a certain amount of conservatism is often desired since uncontrolled innovation as a rule is also detrimental. This paper proposes the heuristic RKF (Relevant Knowledge First) for making decisions in configuration processes based on the so-called relevance of objects in a knowledge base. The underlying relevance-function has two components, one based on reinforcement learning and the other based on forgetting (fading). Relevance of an object increases with its successful use and decreases with age when it is not used. RKF has been developed to speed up the configuration process and to improve the quality of the solutions relative to the reward value that is given by users.

Competition and Price Dispersion in International Long Distance Calling

This paper examines the relationship between changes in telecommunications provider concentration on international long distance routes and changes in prices on those routes. Overall, decreased concentration is associated with significantly lower prices to consumers of long distance services. However, the relationship between concentration and price varies according to the type of long distance plan considered. For the international flagship plans frequently selected by more price-conscious consumers of international long distance, increased competition on a route is associated with lower prices. In contrast, for the basic international plans that are the default selection for consumers, increased competition on a route is actually associated with higher prices. Thus, somewhat surprisingly, price dispersion appears to increase as competition increases.

Antitrust, Intellectual Property and Standard-Setting Organizations

Standard-setting organizations (SSOs) regularly encounter situations in which one or more companies claim to own proprietary rights that cover a proposed industry standard. The industry cannot adopt the standard without the permission of the intellectual property owner (or owners).
How SSOs respond to those who assert intellectual property rights is critically important. Whether or not private companies retain intellectual property rights in group standards will determine whether a standard is "open" or "closed." It will determine who can sell compliant products, and it may well influence whether the standard adopted in the market is one chosen by a group or one offered by a single company. SSO rules governing intellectual property rights will also affect how standards change as technology improves.
Given the importance of SSO rules governing intellectual property rights, there has been surprisingly little treatment of SSOs or their intellectual property rules in the legal literature. My aim in this article is to fill that void. To do so, I have surveyed the intellectual property policies of dozens of SSOs, primarily but not exclusively in the computer networking and telecommunications industries.

Crisis of Public Utility Deregulation and the Unrecognized Welfare State

Successful achievement of public policies requires satisfaction of conditions affecting political feasibility for policy adoption and maintenance as well as economic viability of the desired activity or enterprise. This paper discusses the difficulties of satisfying these joint constraints given the legacy of the common law doctrines of "just price" and "businesses affected with a public interest." In this regard, it is helpful to view traditional public utility regulation as a form of welfare state regulation, as it suffers from similar political problems from policy retrenchment. The retrenchment problems are examined in the context of the electricity crisis in California as well as the passage and implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. As expected, retrenchment from low residential retail rates - the most universalistic benefit for customers - faces the greatest political resistance. The societal trade-offs between monopoly and competition must be reexamined in light of the greater instability and political difficulties under a deregulatory regime.

Testing for Mathematical Lineation in Jim Crace's "Quarantine" and T. S. Eliot's "Four Quartets"

The mathematical distinction between prose and verse may be detected in writings that are not apparently lineated, for example in T. S. Eliot's "Burnt Norton", and Jim Crace's "Quarantine". In this paper we offer comments on appropriate statistical methods for such work, and also on the nature of formal innovation in these two texts. Additional remarks are made on the roots of lineation as a metrical form, and on the prose-verse continuum.

Open Access beyond cable: The case of Interactive TV

In this paper we analyze the development of interactive TV in the U.S. and Western Europe. We argue that despite the nascent character of the market there are important regulatory issues at stake, as exemplified by the AOL/TW merger and the British Interactive Broadcasting case. Absent rules that provide for non-discriminatory access to network components (including terminal equipment specifications), dominant platform operators are likely to leverage ownership of delivery infrastructure into market power over interactive TV services. While integration between platform operator, service provider and terminal vendor may facilitate the introduction of services in the short-term, the lasting result will be a collection of fragmented "walled gardens" offering limited content and applications. Would interactive TV develop under such model, the exciting opportunities for broad-based innovation and extended access to multiple information, entertainment and educational services opened by the new generation of broadcasting technologies will be foregone

Intelligent Search of Correlated Alarms from Database containing Noise Data

Alarm correlation plays an important role in improving the service and reliability in modern telecommunications networks. Most previous research of alarm correlation didn't consider the effect of noise data in Database. This paper focuses on the method of discovering alarm correlation rules from database containing noise data. We firstly define two parameters Win_freq and Win_add as the measure of noise data and then present the Robust_search algorithm to solve the problem. At different size of Win_freq and Win_add, experiments with alarm data containing noise data show that the Robust_search Algorithm can discover the more rules with the bigger size of Win_add. We also experimentally compare two different interestingness measures of confidence and correlation.

PUC Autonomy and Policy Innovation: Local Telephone Competition in Arkansas and New York

In the pre-divestiture era, the regulatory environment in the U.S. was fairly uniform and harmonious with the FCC setting the course and the accommodative state PUCs making corresponding changes in their own policies. The divestiture fractured this monolithic system as it forced the PUCs to respond to new forces unleashed in their own backyards. Soon there was great diversity in the overall regulatory landscape. Within this new environment, there is considerable disparity among the PUCs in terms of their ability to implement new ideas. This paper seeks to understand the structural factors that influence the latitude of regulatory action by PUCs via a comparative study of local telephone competition policy making in Arkansas and New York. The analysis suggests that the presence or absence of countervailing forces determines the relative autonomy the PUCs enjoy and thereby their ability to introduce new ideas into their states.

Analyzing ENUM Service and Administration from the Bottom Up: The addressing system for IP telephony and beyond

ENUM creates many new market opportunities and raises several important policy issues related to the implementation and administration of the ENUM database and services. Recent World Telecommunications Policy Forum 2001 dealt with the emergence of ENUM as an important numbering issue of IP telephony. This paper prepares some important emerging issues of ENUM administration and policy by taking an empirical research approach from the bottom up.
We will identify potential key ENUM services, and estimating the size of the service market opportunities created by the availability of PSTN-IP addressing and mapping mechanisms, particularly in the context of IP telephony. Also, we analyze the possible administrative models and relationship scenarios among different ENUM players such as Registry(ies), Registrars, Telephone Service Providers, ENUM Application Service Providers, etc. Then, we will assess the effects of various administrative model architectures of ENUM service by looking at the market opportunities and motivations of the players. From the empirical findings, we will draw the implications on transactions among different kinds of ENUM service providers. Finally, the results of the model analysis will be used for the discussion of policy related issues around the ENUM and IP telephony services.
Keywords: IP Telephony, ENUM, Internet Policy, Numbering and Addressing System, Service and Market Study, Administration Model, Empirical Market Study.

Internet Radio: A New Engine for Content Diversity?

While traditional radio stations are subject to extensive government regulations, Internet radio stations remain largely unregulated. As Internet radio usage has increased certain stakeholders have begun to argue that these Internet radio broadcasters are providing significant and diverse programming to American audiences and that government regulation of spectrum-using radio station ownership may be further relaxed.
One of the primary justifications for regulation of ownership has been to protect diversity in broadcasting. This study hypothesizes that Internet radio broadcasting does add diversity to the radio broadcasting industry and that it should be considered as relevant by regulators.
This study evaluates the role of Internet radio broadcasters according to five criteria intended to gauge the level of diversity being delivered to listeners online. By measuring the levels of format, channel, ownership, location and language diversity among Internet radio stations, it is possible to draw benchmark lessons about the new medium's ability to provide Americans with diverse broadcasting options.
The study finds that Internet radio broadcasters are in fact adding measurable diversity to the radio broadcasting industry. Internet broadcasters are providing audiences with access to an increasing number of stations, owners, formats, and language choices, and it is likely that technologies aiding in the mobility of access as well as broadband evolution will reinforce these findings.

Between a rock and a hard place: assessing the application of domestic policy and South Africa's commitments under the WTO'S Basic Telecommunications Agreement

South Africa adopted the GATS Basic Agreement on Telecommunications and the regulatory principles in 1998. Obligations undertaken by South Africa mirrored the framework for the gradual telecommunications reform process that was begun in 1996. In the light of two threatened actions for anti-competitive practices in violation of the Agreement, this paper reviews the nature of the commitments undertaken by South Africa and assesses the country's compliance to date. This paper also seeks to explore the tension that arises between domestic policy reforms and international trade aspirations. It is argued that the dynamic produced through this tension affords domestic governments a mechanism with which to balance the seemingly opposing goals of competition and development. It is further argued that the broad regulatory principles, adopted by all signatories and often criticized for lack of precision, facilitate this fine balancing and affords domestic governments an opportunity to advance sovereign concerns while pursuing international trade ideals.

Competition and Commons: The Post-Telecom Act Public Interest, in and after the AOLTW Merger

In asserting a competitive market environment as a justification for regulatory forbearance, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 finally articulated a clear standard for the FCC's public interest standard, one of the most protean concepts in communications. This seeming clarity has not, however, inhibited intense political conflict over the term. This paper examines public and regulatory debate over the AOL Time Warner merger as an example of the way in which the linkage between competitions and commons policy becomes relevant to communications policy, particularly in relation to mass media, and discusses interpretations of the public interest in the current FCC. The paper proposes that the Telecom Act's goal of fostering economic competition among information service providers, and the democratic ideal of nurturing public relationships and behaviors can be linked. Competition policy that creates the opportunity for untrammeled interactivity also provides a sine qua non to nurture the social phenomenon of the commons. The linked concepts of competition and commons could also provide useful ways to interpret the public interest in policy arenas as spectrum allocation and intellectual property.

Signing Initiative Petitions Online: Possibilities, Problems and Prospects

Many people expect the Internet to change American politics, most likely in the direction of increasing direct citizen participation and forcing government officials to respond more quickly to voter concerns. A recent California initiative with these objectives would authorize use of encrypted digital signatures over the Internet to qualify candidates, initiatives, and other ballot measures. Proponents of Internet signature gathering say it will significantly lower the cost of qualifying initiatives and thereby reduce the influence of organized, well-financed interest groups. They also believe it will increase both public participation in the political process and public understanding about specific measures. However, opponents question whether Internet security is adequate to prevent widespread abuse and argue that the measure would create disadvantages for those who lack access to the Internet. Beyond issues of security, cost, and access lie larger questions about the effects of Internet signature gathering on direct democracy. Would it encourage greater and more informed public participation in the political process? Or would it flood voters with ballot measures and generally worsen current problems with the initiative process itself? Because we lack good data on these questions, answers to them today are largely conjectural. We can be fairly sure, however, that Internet petition signing, like Internet voting, will have unintended consequences.

A Framework for Assessing Universal Service Obligations: A Developing Country Perspective

A critical element of most national telecom policy objectives is advancing universal service. In a multi-operator context, this is usually operationalized through Universal Service Obligations (USO), by which various operators are mandated to provide a part of their services to rural areas or to high cost to serve customers at "affordable" prices.
This paper highlights the various issues in USO from a developing country perspective. The first part of this paper gives an overview of USO practices and issues. The second part reviews the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India's recommendations on USO cost estimation. In the third part, the paper analyzes characteristics of rural exchanges with a view to evolve a framework for assessing USO. This framework is applicable to developing countries as the study carried out in this paper is in the context of a developing country characterized by low telecom penetration and non-availability of data with regulators.

Internet TV: Business Models and Program Content

Internet technology should eventually provide important improvements over established media not only in the efficiency of broadband delivery, and of particularimportance, in the efficiency of business models that can be used to collect money for that programming. I identify five economic characteristics of Internet technology that should lead to these greater efficiencies: (1) lower delivery costs and reduced capacity constraints, (2) more efficient interactivity, (3) more efficient advertising and sponsorship, (4) more efficient direct pricing and bundling, and (5) lower costs of copying and sharing.
The most successful Internet TV business models are likely to involve syndication to or from other media, and also international distribution. In the broader context, Internet TV is another syndication outlet by which program suppliers can segment their overall markets and thus support higher production investments. Many innovative and more sharply focused programs will surely prosper on Internet TV, but the attractiveness to audiences of high production value programming will tend to advantage broad appeal programming, such as Hollywood movies. Historical evidence about the performance of cable television and videocassettes is presented to support these points.

Globalization and Governance in Cyberspace: Mapping the Processes of Emergent Regime Formation in Global Information and Communications Policy

This paper develops a theoretical perspective on globalization and the Information Society and combines it with a critical usage of international regime theory as a heuristic for understanding the current historical period of transition from an international telecommunicaitons regime (Cowhey, 1990; 1994) to a new and complex regime aimed at providing governance for the Global Information Infrastructure and Global Information Society (GII/GIS). In analyzing the principles, values, norms, rules, collective decision-making prdocedures, and enforcement mechanisms of the emergent GII/GIS regime, this paper differentiates between three regime levels: (1) Macro-Regime--global; (2) Mezzo-Regime--regional and sub-regional; and (3) Micro-Regime--national. The paper employs a case-study approach to explore some of the specific national responses (i.e. South Africa) to this regime transition, with an analysis of potential best practices and lessons learned for other emerging economies. Key findings in this paper are: (1) that a range of social, political, economic, and technological factors are eroding the existing international telecommunications regime (e.g., VOIP;, call-back, VSATs, accounting rate restructuring, pressure for applicaitons development, and SMMEs); (2) a new regime for global information and communicaitons policy is emerging, but is being driven not by the broad possibilities of the Information Society, but by the more specific interests of global and multi-national corporations related to global e-commerce; (3) numerous strategic responses have been developed at national, subregional, and regional levels to the challenges of this transition in both developed and developing regions; and (4) without a collaborative response, the developing world will be further marginalized by this new regime.

Price Increases from Online Privacy

Consumers value keeping some information about them private from potential marketers. E-commerce dramatically increases the potential for marketers to accumulate otherwise private information about potential customers. Online marketers claim that this information enables them to better market their products. Policy makers are currently drafting rules to regulate the way in which these marketers can collect, store, and share this information. However, there is little evidence yet either of consumers' valuation of their privacy or of the benefits they might reap through better target marketing. We provide a framework for measuring a portion of the benefits from allowing marketers to make better use of consumer information. Target marketing is likely to reduce consumer search costs, improve consumer product selection decisions, and lower the marketing costs of goods sold. Our model allows us to estimate the value to consumers of only the latter, price reductions from more efficient marketing.

Standardization versus Coverage in Wireless Telephone Networks

The issue of market-based versus mandated standards has been addressed in many settings. In most settings in which network effects are present, compatibility across platforms has been a key determinant of the success or failure of a particular technology. In the case of wireless telecommunications, however, interconnection and the availability of the relevant infrastructure can be a substitute for compatibility.
In this paper, we examine the tradeoff between mandated standards and interconnection. We first provide institutional background; we then empirically examine whether, other things being equal, penetration rates were lower (or higher) for countries with multiple incompatible digital standards. We finally discuss the implications of our results for the current debate about 3G standards, in which CDMA2000, which is backed mainly by US firms, competes with WCDMA, which is backed by the European Community.

Ideological and Policy Origins of the Internet, 1957-1969

This paper examines the ideological and policy consensus that shaped computing research funded by the Information Processing Techniques Office (IPTO) within the Department of Defense's Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA). This historical case study of the period between Sputnik and the creation of the ARPANET shows how military, scientific, and academic values shaped the institutions and relations of a foundational period in the creation of the Internet.
The paper probes three areas: the ideology of the science policy consensus, the institutional philosophy of IPTO under J. C. R. Licklider, and the ways that this consensus and philosophy shaped IPTO research in the period leading to the creation of the ARPANET. By examining the intellectual, cultural, and institutional details of the consensus that governed IPTO research between 1957 and 1969, we can understand the ways that these values defined the range of possibilities for network computing.
The influence of the social values expressed by these actors was decisive: that government had an obligation to support a broad base of scientific research to promote both the public good and the national defense; that IPTO-sponsored computing research would accomplish both military and scientific objectives; and that IPTO could leverage its power within this consensus to create a network to share resources and unite researchers over geographical distance. A greater awareness of the ways that "consensus" worked in this period -- the "pre-history" of the Internet -- provides a richer context for evaluating the unique features of the Internet, such as its open architecture, collegial culture, and standards-based governance.

Profiling Internet Users' Participation in Social Change Agendas: An application of Q methodology

New computer-mediated channels of communication are action oriented and have the ability to deliver information and dialogue - moderated and unmoderated - which can facilitate the bringing together of a series of society's stakeholders, opinion leaders and change agents, who have the ability to influence social action. However, existing online studies have been limited in explaining Internet users' willingness to participate in social change agendas online. They have relied predominately on basic demographic descriptors such as age, education, income and access to technology and have ignored, social, psychological and attitudinal variables that may explain online participation and social change. The authors propose a Q methodology research approach better evaluate Internet users participation in online social change agendas.

Bringing the Internet to Schools: US and EU policies

The Internet is changing rapidly the way people around the world communicate, learn, and work. Yet the tremendous benefits of the Internet are not shared equally by all. One way to close the gap of the "digital divide" is to ensure Internet access to all schools from an early age. While both the USA and EU have embraced the promotion of Internet access to schools, the two have decided to finance it differently. This paper shows that the main costs of Internet access to schools are not communications-related (telecommunications and Internet services) but rather non-communications-related (hardware, educational training, software). This paper goes on to discuss whether the identified costs should be financed in any way by the universal service obligations funded by the telecommunications industry/sector/consumers (sector specific) or a general governmental budget (educational budget).

Branching: the Essence of Constraint Solving

This paper focuses on the branching process for solving any constraint satisfaction problem (CSP). A parametrised schema is proposed that (with suitable instantiations of the parameters) can solve CSP's on both finite and infinite domains. The paper presents a formal specification of the schema and a statement of a number of interesting properties that, subject to certain conditions, are satisfied by any instances of the schema.
It is also shown that the operational procedures of many constraint systems including cooperative systems) satisfy these conditions.
Moreover, the schema is also used to solve the same CSP in different ways by means of different instantiations of its parameters.

Geography and the Internet: Is the Internet a Substitute or a Complement for Cities?

By combining persons around the world into a single market, the Internet may serve as a substitute for urban agglomeration. That is, the Internet may level the consumption playing field between large, variety-laden and small, variety-starved markets. However, if local content on the Internet is more prevalent in larger markets, then the Internet may be a complement for urban agglomeration. Characterizing the nature of available content using Media Metrix web page visits by about 13,500 households, we document that substantially more online local content is available in larger markets. Combining this with CPS Internet use data, we find statistically significant direct evidence of both complementarity and substitutability: Individuals are more likely to connect in markets with more local online content; and holding local online content constant, are less likely to connect in larger markets. We also find that individuals connect to overcome local isolation: Blacks are more likely to connect, relative to whites, when they comprise a smaller fraction of local population, making the Internet is a substitute for agglomeration of preference minorities within cities, if not cities themselves. On balance we find that the substitution and complementarity effects offset each other so that the Internet does not promote or discourage agglomeration in larger markets.

Universal service, specific services on generic networks, some logic begins to emerge in the policy area

It has proved to be difficult to translate the lessons from the literature on universal service into the policy framework because of political interests and regulatory capture. Neither the USA or Europe has made a very good job of devising a clean framework and the WTO agreement is sparing in this area. A number of pressures in the European context have enabled a more systematic approach to emerge, that exploits the academic work. They include the need for the European regulatory framework to encompass E. European countries where network development and income levels are much lower, the desire to encompass Internet within the universal service regulatory framework, a willingness to design a framework that covers all communications networks and remove the telecommunications bias, thereby forcing issues of economic neutrality to the fore. The paper systematically goes through a number of key areas and principles of regulation and how they are being designed to deal with a range of national situations. They include, defining the scope of universal service and the principles by which it might be modified in the light of technological and economic developments; incorporating latitude for intervention outside this defined scope, defining incentive and designation methods to encourage the efficient supply of elements of universal service obligations, interpreting affordability in the context of price and income levels that diverge considerably, requiring both allocative efficiency and competitive neutrality, formulating alternative financing methods including general government financing and value added tax type methods which can co-exist and provide comparative policy yardsticks.

Commonalities: The R.E.A. and High-Speed Rural Internet Access

This paper explores commonalities between the creation of the Rural Electrification Administration and the similar dilemma of providing an affordable infrastructure for high-speed Internet access in places where profit incentives do not exist. In the case of the R.E.A., the necessity for an aggressive federal initiative to wire rural America, where the market for electricity had failed, is revisited as the missing incentives are identified and explored. We then examine the incentive-poor similarities between rural electrification and rural high-speed Internet access through how consumers currently and prospectively gain access to broadband Internet service. The regulatory environment created by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and the Federal Communications Commission is considered. Although the FCC is required (Section 254.b.3) to take regulatory measures to ensure comparable and affordable access to the Internet for all Americans, the historical similarities and comparative analysis of rural electrification and high-speed Internet access suggests the goal of universal service is unlikely to be met in the near future. Regulatory disincentives to build such networks are present, driven in part by market realities and in part by competitive restrictions in the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Finally, we pose the question of whether a federal effort equivalent to the R.E.A. is needed to ensure that residents of sparsely populated areas, like their predecessors in the 1930s, are not comparatively disadvantaged in the first decades of the 21st century. The paper concludes with a proposal to accelerate the deployment of broadband infrastructure in rural America.

On the Use of Vickrey Auctions for Spectrum Allocation in Developing Countries

In this paper, we assess the applicability of auctions based on the Vickrey second price model for allocating wireless spectrum in developing countries. We first provide an overview of auction models for allocating resources. We then examine the experience of auctioning spectrum in different countries. Based on this examination, we posit some axioms that seem to have to be satisfied when allocating spectrum in most developing countries. In light of these axioms, we provide a critical evaluation of using Vickrey second- price auctions to allocate spectrum in developing countries. We suggest the use of a new auction mechanism, the Vickrey "share auction" which will satisfy many of these axioms.

CLP Approaches to 2D Angle Placements

The paper presents two CLP approaches to 2D angle placements, implemented in CHIP v.5.3. The first is based on the classical (rectangular) cumulative global constraint, the second on the new trapezoidal cumulative global constraint. Both approaches are applied to a specific presented.

Voice over IP in the Local Exchange: A Case Study

There have been a small number of cost studies of Voice over IP (VoIP) in the academic literature. Generally, they have been for abstract networks, have not been focused on the public switched telephone network, or they have not included the operating costs. This paper presents the operating cost portion of our ongoing research project comparing circuit-switched and IP network costs for an existing local exchange carrier.
We have found that (1) The operating cost differential between IP and circuit switching for this LEC will be small; and (2) A substantial majority of a telco's operating cost lies in customer service and outside plant maintenance, which will be incurred equally in both networks in a pure substitution scenario. Thus, the operating cost difference lies in the actual cost differences of the switching technologies. This appears to be less than 10%-15% of the total operating cost of the network. Thus, even if the cost differences for substitute services were large, the overall impact on the telco's financial performance would be small. But IP has some hidden benefits on the operations side. Most notably, data and voice services could be managed with the same systems infrastructure, meaning that the incremental operations cost of rolling out new services would likely be much lower, since it would all be IP.

Second-Level Digital Divide: Mapping Differences in People's Online Skills

Much of the existing approach to the digital divide suffers from an important limitation. It is based on a binary classification of Internet use by only considering whether someone is or is not an Internet user. To remedy this shortcoming, this project looks at the differences in people's level of skill with respect to finding information online. Findings suggest that people search for content in a myriad of ways and there is a large variance in how long people take to find various types of information online. Data are collected to see how user demographics, users' social support networks, people's experience with the medium, and their autonomy of use influence their level of user sophistication.

United States v. Microsoft: A Failure of Antitrust in the New Economy

This paper analyzes the law and economics of United States v. Microsoft, a landmark case of antitrust intervention in network industries. [abridged]

Networks Unplugged: Towards A Model of Compatibility Regulation Between Information Platforms

Networks Unplugged: Towards A Model of Compatibility Regulation Between Information Platforms This Article outlines a basic model for regulating interoperability between rival information platforms. In so doing, it insists that antitrust, intellectual property, and telecommunications regulation all must follow the same set of principles to facilitate competition between rival standards where possible, mandating or allowing cooperation only where necessary to facilitate competition within a standard when network-level competition is infeasible. To date, the antitrust regime best approximates the type of model I have in mind, but sound competition policy requires that telecommunications regulation and intellectual property law follow its basic principles as well.

The Impact of Incentives in the Telecommunications Act of 1996 on Corporate Strategies

Rules are necessary to provide or shape the incentives of individuals and organizations. This is particularly true when free markets lead to undesirable outcomes. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 attempted to create incentives to foster competition. Ambiguity as well as the timing of the Act has led to delays in the clarification of rules and the rapid obsolescence of the document. The paper presents the strategies that common carriers adopted to try to tilt regulation in their favor, slow the entry of competitors, maintain their market leadership, and expand into other segments. Some of the strategies analyzed include lobbying efforts, court challenges, and lack of cooperation with new entrants.

E-Business and SMEs: Preliminary Evidence from Selected Italian Districts

The debate on the Information Society shows large agreement on the assumption that the promised benefits will fully display only if the diffusion of ICTs and the Internet will involve all the actors of the socio-economic system. Accordingly, special emphasis is put on the participation of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), but also on public administrations (PAs) as promoters and catalysts of private initiatives. As for SMEs, public intervention concerns both the promotion of fully competitive e-markets and the solution of market failures. However, effective and efficient intervention requires specific information on SMEs' approach to e-commerce, often depending upon specific sector and local condition and in most cases still lacking. In order to identify the need and the scope for public intervention, the paper focuses on a peculiar SMEs-intensive productive environment: the manufacturing industrial district, which traditionally constitutes an examples of winning SMEs' network, characterised by common industrial culture and intense input-output interactions. The paper presents empirical evidence from the Italian districts of Como (textile industry) and Lumezzane (metalwork industry). The research results show that pro-active entrepreneurs are creatively exploring the opportunities offered by the Internet to promote their businesses. However, it is also clear that the transition to the Internet economy still involves a reduced percentage of potential participants, and that institutional actions are needed in order to foster a larger participation.

Indicators of Independence in Regulatory Commissions

Independent regulatory commissions such as the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) must produce policies that reflect technical expertise, legal precedent, and stakeholder input. Given these situational imperatives, how does the FCC implement independence in its decision-making? This research explicates some of the underlying rules, resources, and relationships within the environment in which the agency is embedded that influence agency work practices to operationalize independence. Research such as this may be helpful in the creation of new, or for assessment of existing, regulatory commissions, but only if great attention is paid not only to institutional structure, but also to the practice of staff in the agency.

ICANN and Antitrust

The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) is a private non-profit company which, pursuant to contracts with the US government, acts as the de facto regulator for DNS policy. ICANN decides what TLDs will be made available to users, and which registrars will be permitted to offer those TLDs for sale. In this article we focus on a hitherto-neglected implication of ICANN's assertion that it is a private rather than a public actor: its potential liability under the U.S. antitrust laws, and the liability of those who transact with it. ICANN argues that it is not as closely tied to the government as NSI and IANA were in the days before ICANN was created. If this is correct, it seems likely that ICANN will not benefit from the antitrust immunity those actors enjoyed. Some of ICANN's regulatory actions may restrain competition, e.g. its requirement that applicants for new gTLDs demonstrate that their proposals would not enable competitive (alternate) roots and ICANN's preventing certain types of non-price competition among registrars (requiring the UDRP). ICANN's rule adoption process might be characterized as anticompetitive collusion by existing registrars, who are likely not be subject to the Noerr-Pennington lobbying exemption. Whether ICANN has in fact violated the antitrust laws depends on whether it is an antitrust state actor, whether the DNS is an essential facility, and on whether it can shelter under precedents that protect standard-setting bodies. If (as seems likely) a private ICANN and those who petition it are subject to antitrust law, everyone involved in the process needs to review their conduct with an eye towards legal liability. ICANN should act very differently with respect to both the UDRP and the competitive roots if it is to avoid restraining trade.

Coase's Penguin, or Linux and the Nature of the Firm

The paper explains why open source software is an instance of a potentially broader phenomenon. Specifically, I suggest that nonproprietary peer-production of information and cultural materials will likely be a ubiquitous phenomenon in a pervasively networked society. I describe a number of such enterprises, at various stages of the information production value chain. These enterprises suggest that incentives to engage in nonproprietary peer production are trivial as long as enough contributors can be organized to contribute. This implies that the limit on the reach of peer production efforts is the modularity, granularity, and cost of integration of a good produced, not its total cost. I also suggest reasons to think that peer-production can have systematic advantages over both property-based markets and corporate managerial hierarchies as a method of organizing information and cultural production in a networked environment, because it is a better mechanism for clearing information about human capital available to work on existing information inputs to produce new outputs, and because it permits largers sets of agents to use larger sets of resources where there are increasing returns to the scale of both the set of agents and the set of resources available for work on projects. As capital costs and communications costs decrease in importance as factors of information production, the relative advantage of peer production in clearing human capital becomes more salient.

Internet Attacks: A Policy Framework for Rules of Engagement

Information technology is redefining national security and the use of force by state and nonstate actors. The use of force over the Internet warrants analysis given recent terrorist attacks. At the same time that information technology empowers states and their commercial enterprises, information technology makes infrastructures supported by computer systems increasingly accessible, interdependent, and more vulnerable to malicious attack. The Computer Security Institute and the FBI jointly estimate that financial losses attributed to malicious attack amounted to $378 million in 2000. International Law clearly permits a state to respond in self-defense when attacked by another state through the Internet, however, such attacks may not always rise to the scope, duration, and intensity threshold of an armed attack that may justify a use of force in self-defense.
This paper presents a policy framework to analyze the rules of engagement for Internet attacks. We describe the state of Internet security, incentives for asymmetric warfare, and the development of international law for conflict management and armed conflict. We focus on options for future rules of engagement specific to Information Warfare.
We conclude with four policy recommendations for Internet attack rules of engagement: (1) the U.S. should pursue international definitions of "force" and "armed attack" in the Information Warfare context; (2) the U.S. should pursue international cooperation for the joint investigation and prosecution of Internet attacks; (3) the U.S. must balance offensive opportunities against defensive vulnerabilities; and (4) the U.S. should prepare strategic plans now rather than making policy decisions in real-time during an Internet attack.

National Information Infrastructure Development in Canada and the U.S.: Redefining Universal Service and Universal Access in the Age of Techno-Economic Convergence

This exploratory and descriptive research compares the policy-making processes and policy recommendations regarding universal service and universal access developed by the U.S. National Information Infrastructure Advisory Council (NIIAC) and the Canadian Information Highway Advisory Council (IHAC) in conjunction with related federal government agencies. Created in 1993 and 1994, respectively, the Councils were charged with "bringing forward" the concepts of universal service and universal access to adjust to the effects of deregulation, new and converged Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs), and neo-liberal economic competition and globalization that included acknowledging the private sector as the primary creator of the Information Highway.This qualitative study used as its methodology organizational, policy, narrative, and discourse analyses to create a picture of what universal service and universal access were and what they became in the hands of NIIAC, IHAC. The U.S. had started with a more clearly defined universal service tradition than Canada, and undertook a more complex policy-making process with more experienced personnel. It was also clear that IHAC had in many ways followed the U.S. model and arrived at many similar recommendations as NIIAC. Because of the inevitability of technical, economic, and social change related to the Information Highway, no definitive outcome to the Universal Service and Universal Access "story" can be determined. Because the Canadian government did not follow up on some of IHAC's most crucial recommendations, the Canadian Information Highway "story," in particular, has been left less complete than that of the U.S.

Lead, Follow, or Go Your Own Way: Empirical Evidence Against Leader-Follower Behavior in Electronic Markets

Low search costs in Internet markets can be used by consumers to find low prices, but can also be used by retailers to monitor competitors' prices. This price monitoring can lead to price matching, resulting in dampened price competition and higher prices in some cases. This paper analyzes price data for 316 bestselling, computer, and random book titles gathered from 32 retailers between August 1999 and January 2000. In contrast to previous studies we find no evidence of leader-follow behavior for the vast majority of retailers we study. Further, the few cases of leader-follow behavior we observe seem to be associated with managerial convenience as opposed to anti-competitive behavior. We offer a methodology that can be used by future academic researchers or government regulators to check for anti-competitive price matching behavior in future time periods or in additional product categories.

Pricing and Network Externalities in Peer-to-Peer Communications Networks (Draft)

This paper analyzes the pricing of transit traffic in wireless peer-to-peer networks using the concepts of direct and indirect network externalities. We first establish that without any pricing mechanism, congestion externalities overwhelm other network effects in a wireless data network. We show that peering technology will mitigate the congestion and allow users to take advantage of more the positive network externalities. However, without pricing, the peering equilibrium breaks down just like a bucket brigade made up of free-riding agents. With pricing and perfect competition, a peering equilibrium is possible and allows many more users on the network at the same time. However, the congestion externality is still a problem, so peering organized through a club may be the best solution.

Asymmetric Regulation on Steroids: U.S. Competition Policy and Fiber to the Home

Fiber to the Home (FTTH) describes a set of emerging technologies with the potential to affect competition in local access. On one hand, the high cost of deploying fiber to the residence suggests limitations on facilities-based competition among FTTH networks. On the other hand, FTTH opens up new possibilities for service-level competition, defined as the sharing of a single network infrastructure by multiple higher-layer service providers, whether of the same or different services. Yet technology is hardly an exogenous factor that independently shapes future local access competition; the regulatory environment also plays a key role. By shaping expectations about future competitive requirements, current regulations influence network operators' deployment choices among competing FTTH technologies, as well as design choices made by vendors and standards bodies for technologies still under development.The current regulatory approach to FTTH is far from consistent. Network operators likely to deploy FTTH include Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers (ILECs), incumbent cable operators, competitive access providers (including CLECs), independent telephone companies, and municipalities. This paper reviews the rules related to service-level competition that apply to each of these categories. In essence, the paper finds that if current regulatory trends continue, asymmetries in the regulation of service-level competition will be on steroids by the time FTTH starts being more commonly deployed. Current regulatory requirements are either non-existent, or extremely detailed and technology- and service- specific (e.g. UNEs). We argue that neither of these approaches is likely to achieve the desired result for FTTH, given the current state of flux in emerging FTTH technology.

Electronic Access to Information and the Privacy Paradox: Rethinking :'Practical Obscurity'

This article addresses the U.S. Supreme Court's central purpose formulation in Reporters Committee v. Department of Justice under the federal Freedom of Information Act. By examining all lower federal court opinions interpreting Reporters Committee and by analyzing the effects of the Court's opinion on the implementation of the FOIA, the paper finds that the Court's opinion has greatly narrowed the scope of the FOIA and limited the power of EFOIA to democratize electronic information. To assist in remedying the damage to the public interest in freedom of information, the author urges judicial consideration of a Privacy Act case, Tobey v. NRB, that more subtly treats information collected by government about individuals. The paper concludes that the Privacy Act demonstrates clearly that information, particularly computerized databases, can not be treated categorically for purposes of access.

The Internet and Community Networks: Case Studies of Five U.S. Cities

This paper looks at five U.S. cities (Austin, Cleveland, Nashville, Portland, and Washington, DC) and explores strategies being employed by community activists and local governments to create and sustain community networking projects. In some cities, community networking initiatives are relatively mature, while in others they are in early or intermediate stages. The paper looks at several factors that help explain the evolution of community networks in cities:
1) Local government support; 2) Federal support 3) Degree of community activism, often reflected by public-private partnerships that help support community networks.
In addition to these (more or less) measurable elements of local support, the case studies enable description of the different objectives of community networks in different cities. Several community networking projects aim to improve the delivery of government services (e.g., Portland and Cleveland), some have a job-training focus (e.g., Austin, Washington, DC), others are oriented very explicitly toward community building (Nashville, DC), and others toward neighborhood entrepreneurship (Portland and Cleveland).
The paper ties the case studies together by asking whether community technology initiatives contribute to social capital in the cities studied.

Policy for access: Framing the question

Five years after the '96 Telecommunications Act, we still find precious little local facilities-based competition. In response there are calls in Congress and even from the FCC for new legislation to "free the Bells." However, the same ideology drove policy, not just five years ago, but also almost twenty years back with the first modern push for "freedom," namely divestiture.
How might we frame the question of policy for local access to engender a more fruitful approach? The starting point for this analysis is the network--not bits and bytes, but the human network. With the human network as starting point, the unit of analysis is the community--specifically, the individual in a tension with community. There are two core ideas.
The first takes a behavioral approach to the economics--and the relative share between beneficial chaos and order, in economic affairs, becomes explicit.
If the first main idea provides a conceptual base for open source, the second core idea distinguishes open source from open design, ie at the information 'frontier' we push forward.
The resulting policy frame for access is worked out in the detailed, concrete steps of an extended thought experiment. A small town setting (Concord, Massachusetts) grounds the discussion in the real world. The purpose overall is to stimulate new thinking which may break out of the conundrum where periodic rounds to legislate 'freedom' produce the opposite, recursively. The ultimate aim is better fit between our analytically-driven expectations and economic outcomes.

Realspace Sovereigns in Cyberspace: The Case of Domain Names

In this piece, we take up the case of the domain name system as an example of challenges and solutions for realspace sovereigns in cyberspace. First, we analyze the 'in rem' provision of the US Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act (ACPA), which purports to expand the scope of the ACPA to encompass disputes with little direct connection with the United States. In reality, there exist no cases of foreign cybersquatting as to which the 'in rem' provision will be both applicable and constitutional. Instead the ACPA 'in rem' provision is notable primarily for its aggressive assertion of jurisdiction, leading us to consider the (often overlooked) role of realspace sovereigns in the regulation of the domain names system. By mapping the logical control over the domain names system-the distributed hierarchy that is the basis of the system's design-onto realspace territory, the potential for sovereign regulation of the system becomes apparent. We argue that the regulatory significance of geography, and the essentially arbitrary nature of the present territorial locations of the key components of the domain name system implies the future segmentation of the domain name system, and the resulting dramatic decrease in its value. Accordingly, we argue that realspace sovereigns (and especially the United States) have strong interests in avoiding segmentation, and thus must seek to coordinate the regulation of the system.

Civic Engagement among Early Internet Adopters: Trend or Phase?

This paper brings evidence to bear on the question of the long-term effects of Internet diffusion on civic engagement in geographic communities. It draws on findings from survey data collected in four U.S. towns and cities in fall 2000 where community computer networking is established. The study shows that early adopters of the Internet are more likely to engage in civic activities and to have higher levels of community involvement than later adopters. Further, early adopters are more likely to use the Internet to increase their community involvement and political participation. Later adopters in all four sites show less involvement in their local community and less interest in political activity and information, online or offline. These findings reinforce those of the Kohut (1999) study showing that later adopters are less civic minded and more interested than early adopters in consumer and commercial applications, such as shopping and entertainment. The evidence in these four sites is consistent with earlier findings in Blacksburg, Virginia (Kavanaugh, 2000; Patterson and Kavanaugh, 2001; Kavanaugh and Patterson, 2001) and other studies of early innovation adopters (Rogers, 1983; Kohut, 1999; Valente, 1995, among others). The results reported in this paper lend weight to the argument that increases in civic engagement and community involvement are due primarily to the behavior of early adopters, making such increases a phase, not a trend. As later adopters come on line, use of the Internet for community involvement or civic engagement decreases. In the long term, we can expect that Internet access may have only a modest effect on community involvement and civic engagement in geographic communities.

Value of Usage and Seller's Listing Behavior in Internet Auctions

In this paper, we aim to empirically examine the value of website usage and sellers' listing behavior in the two leading Internet auctions sites, eBay and Yahoo!Auctions. The descriptive data analysis of the seller's equilibrium listing behavior indicates that a seller's higher expected auction revenue from eBay is correlated with a lager number of potential bidders measured by website usage per listing. Our estimation results, based on the logarithm specifications of sellers' expected auction revenues and potential bidders' website usage, show that in a median case, (i) 1 percent increase of the unique visitors (page views) per listed item induces 0.022 (0.007) percent increase of a seller's expected auction revenue; and (ii) 1 percent increase of sellers' listings induces 1.99 (4.74) percent increase of the unique visitors (page views). Since increased expected auction revenues will induce more listings, we can infer positive feedback effects between the number of listings and website usage. Consequently, Yahoo!Auctions, which has substantially less listings, has greater incentives to increase listings via these feedback effects which are reflected in its fee schedules.

Telecommunications and rural economies: Findings from the Appalachian region

This research investigates the relationship between telecommunications infrastructure, economic conditions, and federal and state policies and initiatives. It presents a detailed look at the telecommunications environment of the Appalachian region, particularly focusing on broadband technologies. A strong, positive association exists between telecommunications infrastructure and economic status. The effects of federal and state universal service policies are examined, as well as some of the ways states have leveraged their own infrastructure to improve telecommunications capabilities in their region. Other state and local telecommunications-related programs are noted.

E PLURIBUS ENUM: Unifying International Telecommunications Networks and Governance

ENUM effectively bridges the telephone and Internet worlds by placing telephone numbers from the ITU Rec. E.164 public telecommunication numbering plan into the Internet Domain Name System (DNS) as domain names. ENUM potentially presents significant public policy issues at both the domestic and international levels. Ultimately, it should not matter whether ENUM is approached as a telecommunications issue or an Internet issue because: (1) they are becoming the same thing technically, and (2) they engage the same global public interests. For the same reasons as apply to traditional telecommunications, and even to the Internet itself, public oversight of ENUM naming, numbering, and addressing resources is justified both by technical necessity and the interests of consumer protection (particularly personal privacy) and competition at higher service layers. A single, coordinated global DNS domain for at least Tier 0 (the international level) of the ENUM names hierarchy should be designated by public authorities. Many of the technical characteristics and policy considerations relevant at the ENUM Tier 0 and 1 zones are also directly applicable to the Internet's IP address space and DNS root (or Tier 0) zone - key shared elements of the Internet's logical infrastructure. Despite the fundamentally international nature of the Internet's logical infrastructure layer, and the purported privatization of administration of its IP address space and the DNS, Internet governance is not yet truly international. The ENUM policy debate illustrates the need for authoritative international public oversight of public communications network logical infrastructure, including that of traditional telecommunications, the Internet, and ENUM.

Is the Commercial Mass Media Necessary, or Even Desirable, for Liberal Democracy?

Is a commercial mass media, dependent on the market for its sustenance, necessary, or even desirable, for liberal democracy? Yochai Benkler has argued that a decentralized, peer-to-peer system of communications and information is both possible with digital technology and preferable to a system based on commercial mass media. He has contended in fact that the presence of politically powerful, copyright-rich mass media imposes significant barriers to the development of peer-to-peer information-sharing networks. In contrast, I have argued that the commercial mass media play an important, and perhaps even vital, role in liberal democracy by galvanizing public opinion, serving as a watchdog against government and corporate wrongdoing, agenda-setting (which enables public discourse), and serving as a relatively trustworthy source of information. This paper seeks to push the ball forward on this issue. It first isolates and enumerates the contributions that the commercial mass media are said to make towards liberal democracy. It then briefly assesses the extent to which the commercial mass media actually fulfills these constitutive functions. It then asks whether alternative institutions might serve some or all of these functions just as well or better. In so doing, it looks both to the past and the future. First, it examines the political party-supported press that thrived in the United States through much of the 19th century. Second, it examines government-funded mass media. Third, it looks, skeptically, at possibilities for peer-to-peer sharing of information and opinion in the digital network environment. I conclude that, despite the weaknesses of commercial mass media, an information policy suitable to liberal democracy should include a plurality of types of voices, including commercial mass media.

Open Access to Monopoly Cable Platforms Versus Direct Access To Competitive International Telecommunications Satellite Facilities: A Study In Contrasts

In 1999, the FCC authorized direct access to INTELSAT, allowing INTELSAT's U.S. customers and competitors to bypass INTELSAT's U.S. retail affiliate (COMSAT), and to take satellite capacity at wholesale prices directly from INTELSAT. This policy was modeled in many respects on the access and unbundling requirements applicable to domestic incumbent local exchange carriers (ILECs) under the Telecommunications Act of 1996. At the same time, incumbent domestic cable TV system operators have not been required to provide wholesale open access to competitive Internet Service Providers (ISPs) seeking to provide residential broadband Internet service through existing proprietary cable facilities. Yet the policy arguments favoring open access to incumbent domestic cable systems appear to be stronger than those favoring direct access to INTELSAT.
For example, it may be fairly debated whether entrenched cable system operators are now positioned to unfairly leverage their dominance in the multichannel video programming distribution (MVPD) market to thwart competition in the broadband ISP market, as some cable open access advocates assert. In contrast, it is clear that no analogous issues of tying were implicated by INTELSAT in 1999, when its position in the international telecommunications market was substantially nondominant and, in any event, it had no new product to tie to its established offerings. Similarly, while it may be debated whether or not a cable plant is a bottleneck facility that gatekeeps broadband Internet for many residential users, it is beyond cavil that INTELSAT in 1999 controlled virtually no such bottleneck facilities.

Competition and Globalization Brazilian Telecommunications Policy at Crossroads

The current pattern of competition in the Brazilian telecommunications market was defined by a regulatory reform implemented in the second half of the nineties. The telecommunications regulatory reform discussed in the paper promoted the privatization of Telebras System and fostered competition in the Brazilian market under the stricted supervision of the new regulator Anatel. Notwithstanding, the regulatory Brazilian scheme is at a crossroads. From 2002 on an open market approach will be implemented in telecom arena. We analyse the main aspects of those change, from the firms perspective and also in a broad scenario under influence of the World Trade Organization system

Assessing the Effectiveness of Section 271 Five Years After the Telecommunications Act of 1996

A major goal of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 is to promote competition in both the local exchange and long distance wireline markets. In section 271 Congress permitted the Bell Operating Companies (BOCs) to enter the long distance market only if they demonstrate to the FCC that they have complied with the market-opening requirements of section 251. This paper examines the logic behind section 271, to determine if it is a reasonable means of achieving increased competition in both the local and long distance markets, given the technical characteristics of the industry and the legal and informational constraints on regulators who must ensure compliance. It also provides an update on the extent of competitive entry in the local exchange market five years after enactment of the Act.
In this paper we examine a variety of schemes for ensuring BOC compliance that Congress could have used. Given the characteristics of the industry and the limitations on regulators' ability to observe BOC's efforts, we determine that the use of a prize such as BOC entry into long distance is a superior incentive mechanism. We further determine that conditioning a BOC's long distance entry on its demonstrating compliance with section 251 is a logical method of protecting the long distance market against a BOC discriminating against long distance competitors once it has gained entry. The statistical evidence we look at, using data we have collected on ILEC lines sold to CLECs for POTS services, appears to confirm that section 271 has thus far been effective in ensuring compliance.

CyberCampaigns and Canadian Politics: Still Waiting?

The early election call in the fall of 2000 provided the perfect opportunity to study the impact the Internet has had on election campaigning in Canada. With the explosion of use the Net has seen since the 1997 general election, Canadian federal parties stood at the threshold of a new age in election campaigning. Pundits such as Rheingold (1993) have argued that the Internet will provide citizens with a way to bypass traditional media and gain unmediated access to each parties political message as well as providing a forum for citizens to engage the parties, and each other in deliberative debate.
Through a longitudinal analysis of party web pages and telephone interviews with party staffers, we analyze the role the Internet played in the election campaigns of Canada's federal parties. Our findings indicate that the parties are still focusing on providing online features that talk at the voter instead of engaging them in any type of meaningful discourse. Most of these sites were exceptionally similar in their structure and in the type of content they provided. Generally, these sites served as digital archives for campaign material created with other media in mind and despite the multimedia capabilities of the Internet, these sites tended to be overwhelmingly text oriented. In line with Stromer-Galley's (2000) discussion of why candidates in the U.S. avoid online interaction, we also argue that little incentive exists to motivate parties to engage in any meaningful interaction with voters online.

'Negotiated Liberalization': Stakeholder Politics and Communication Sector Reform in South Africa

The paper examines the South African transition from apartheid to democracy through the lens of the reform of the communication sector. Through a set of participatory stakeholder consultative processes, the institutions of broadcasting, telecommunications, print press, and state information agency underwent reform in a process I refer to as 'negotiated liberalization.'

ICANN as Regulator

This paper tells the story leading to ICANN's selection of seven new Internet top level domains in November 2000. In implementing proposals to expand the name space, ICANN adopted an approach far different from Jon Postel's lightweight proposals. ICANN staff, in setting the ground rules for considering new gTLDs, emphasized that only a few applicants would be allowed in, and imposed strict threshold requirements. Staff determined that the Board should pick TLDs by looking at all relevant aspects of every proposal, and deciding which ones presented the best overall combination of a variety of incommensurable factors. Aspects of the resulting process were predictable: Anyone familiar with the FCC comparative hearing process for broadcast licenses can attest that this sort of ad hoc comparison is necessarily subjective, lending itself to arbitrariness and biased application. Yet the process had advantages that appealed to ICANN decision-makers. The Board members would be free to take their best shots, in a situationally sensitive manner, at advancing the policies they thought important. The approach allowed ICANN to maintain the greatest degree of control. The end result, though, was a process stunning in its arbitrariness, a bad parody of fact-bound, situationally sensitive (rather than rules-based) decision-making.

Comparison of Wireless Standards-Setting --United States Versus Europe

When decisions about developing standards are left to individual firms, there are many advantages including a flexible response to market evolution, accommodation to rapid technology change, and avoidance of costly coordination. However, the market process does not necessarily lead to compatible standards, especially when there is no clear market dominator. Standards Institutions generally facilitate better communication among market participants, which may discourage early and/or primitive incompatible standards to emerge in the market. However, expenditures on institutional standards-setting can lead to diminishing returns, or even be counter-productive because institutional standards usually take longer to produce and are slower to respond to technology development. Government agencies can specify compulsory standards to avoid incompatibility. In addition, governments can tie their policy on standardization closely with their industrial, trade, and/or regulatory policies. However, many exogenous factors handicap a government's effective involvement. Government often fails to respond to the dynamics of technology development and consumer demand, and to pick up the "right technology". This study first discusses why two different models have emerged in the two regions. It then examines outcomes and implications of the two models, including impacts on domestic service deployment, global trade competition, technology innovations, and strategies of multinational corporations. The goal is to conduct an empirical comparison between the two contrasting models.

Best Effort versus Spectrum Markets: Best Effort versus Spectrum Markets: The Cases of European MVNOs and (Ultra)Wideband Unlicensed Services

This paper compares two models for delivering broadband wireless services: best effort vs. QoS guaranteed services. The 'best effort' services we refer to in this paper are more commonly known as unlicensed wireless services, while the 'Quality of Service guaranteed' services are more commonly referred to as traditional landline telephony, as well as cellular telephone services of either the second or third generation.
This paper highlights the differing 'market' versus 'engineering' philosophies implicit in alternative wireless service architectures.

The Next Frontier for Openness: Wireless Communications

For wireless communications, the FCC has fostered competition rather than openness. This has permitted the emergence of vertically integrated end-to-end providers, creating problems of reduced hardware innovation, software applications, user choice, and content access. To deal with these emerging issues and create multi-level forms of competition, one policy is likely to suffice: a Carterfone for wireless, coupled with more unlicensed spectrum.

Leveraging Software, Advocating Ideology: Free Software and Open Source

This paper uses the software program Linux and the discourse around it in order to examine how software programs can be used to articulate and defend social and economic positions. Although I do not use the term "expression" in a strict legal sense, I claim that in order to make policy decisions involving software, it is important to understand how the functionality of software is expressive. Another way to state this is that software programs like Linux are socially meaningful through functionality and talk about functionality.
In section I, I review some recent legal scholarship about software and explain why understanding how embedded technical expression works is important given the increasingly large role of software in governance. In section II, I explore software construction as a combination of social and technical practices. In section III, I describe some examples of meaning-making around the software program Linux. In section IV I conclude with a short description of why such analyses are important.

Universal Service in times of Reform: Affordability and accessibility of telecommunication services in Latin America

By surveying the universal service policies in six Latin American countries, this study explores the evolution of the concept during the rollout of the telecommunication reform in the last decade. Country profiles and a set of universal service indicators provide a frame for discussing issues of accessibility and affordability of telephone service in the region. This study found that the reconfiguration of national networks fostered by liberalization policies offered risks and opportunities to achieve universal service goals. The diversification of access points and services enhanced users choices but price rebalancing and lack of Universal Service Obligations (USO) to target groups with special needs depressed the demand and threatened to exclude significant parts of the population. The situation requires the reformulation of USO incorporating all technological solutions existing in the market, and factors from the consumer-demand accounting for the urban-rural continuum, and different social and economic strata. This study identifies the emergence of a second generation of USO targeting some of these needs. However, more competition and special tariff plans for the poor need to be incorporated to the options available in the market.

Standards and Intellectual Property Rights in the Age of Global Communication - A Review of the International Standardization of Third-Generation Mobile System

When the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) selected a radio access technology based on Wideband Code-Division Multiple Access (WCDMA), sponsored by European telecommunications equipment manufactures Ericsson and Nokia, for its third-generation wireless communications system, a bitter dispute developed between ETSI and Qualcommm Inc. Qualcomm threatened to withhold its intellectual property on the CDMA technology unless the Europeans agreed to make the radio access technology backward compatible with cdmaOne, Qualcomm's favored version of CDMA. A dispute over intellectual property rights over key CDMA techniques also erupted between Ericsson and Qualcomm and both filed patent infringement in US Court. The dispute halted the standards activity and has troubled operators worldwide as well as the International Telecommunications Union (ITU).

Bigger May Not Be Better: An Empirical Analysis of Optimal Membership Rules in Peer-To-Peer Networks

Peer to peer networks will become an increasingly important distribution channel for consumer information goods and may play a role in the distribution of information within corporations. Our research analyzes optimal membership rules for these networks in light of positive and negative externalities additional users impose on the network. Using a dataset gathered from the six largest OpenNap-based networks, we find that users impose a positive network externality based on the desirability of the content they provide and a negative network externality based on demands they place on the network. Further we find that the marginal value of additional users is declining and the marginal cost is increasing in the number of current users. This suggests that multiple small networks may serve user communities more efficiently than single monolithic networks and that network operators may wish to specialize in their content and restrict membership based on capacity constraints and user content desirability.

Is Patent Law Technology Specific?

Although patent law purports to cover all manner of technologies, we have noticed recent divergence in the standards applied to biotechnology and to software patents: the Federal Circuit has applied a very permissive standard of obviousness in biotechnology, but a highly restrictive disclosure requirement. The opposite holds true for software patents, which seems to us exactly contrary to sound policy for either industry. These patent standards are grounded in the legal fiction of the "person having ordinary skill in the art" or PHOSITA. We discuss the appropriateness of the PHOSITA standard, concluding that it properly lends flexibility to the patent system. We then discuss the difficulty of applying this standard in different industries, offering suggestions as to how it might be modified to avoid the problems seen in biotechnology and software patents.

Spectrum auctions, pricing and network expansion in wireless telecommunications

This paper examines the effects of licensing conditions, in particular of spectrum fees, on the pricing and diffusion of mobile communications services. Seemingly exorbitant sums paid for 3G licenses in the UK, Germany in 2000 and similarly high fees paid by U.S. carriers in the re-auctioning of PCS licenses early in 2001 raised concerns as to the impacts of the market entry regime on the mobile communications market.
The evidence from the GSM and PCS markets reviewed in this paper suggests that market entry fees do indeed influence the subsequent development of the market. We discuss three potential transmission channels by which license fees can influence the price and quantity of service sold in a wireless market: an increase in average cost, an increase in incremental costs, and impacts of sunk costs on the emerging market structure.
From this conceptual debate, an empirical model is developed and tested using cross-sectional data for the residential mobile voice market. We utilize a structural equation approach, modeling the supply and demand relationships subject to the constraint that supply equals demand. The results confirm the existence of a positive effect of license fees on the cost of supply. However, we also find that higher market concentration has a positive effect on the overall supply in the market, perhaps supporting a Schumpeterian view that a certain degree of market concentration facilitates efficiency.

The Role of Institutions in the Design of Communication Technologies

Communication technologies contain embedded values that affect our society's fundamental values, such as privacy, freedom of speech, and the protection of intellectual property. Researchers have shown the design of technologies is not autonomous but shaped by conflicting social groups. Consequently, communication technologies contain different values when designed by different social groups. Continuing in this vein, we show that the institutions where communication technologies are designed and developed are an important source of the values of communication technologies. We use the term code to collectively refer to the hardware and software of communication technologies. Institutions differ in their motivations, structure, and susceptibility to external influences. First, we focus on the political, economic, social, and legal influences during the development of code. The institutional reactions to these influences are embodied in code. Second, we focus on the decision-making issues in the review process for code. This process determines the code's content and affects the dissemination of code through the decision whether to publicly release the code. We found these factors vary by institution. As a result, institutions differ in the values that they incorporate into code or communications technologies.

Efficient Choice, Inefficient Democracy? The Implications of Cable and Internet Access for Political Knowledge and Voter Turnout

This paper explains why, despite a marked increase in available political information on cable television and the Internet, citizens' levels of political knowledge have, at best, remained stagnant (Delli Carpini & Keeter, 1996). Since the availability of entertainment content has increased too, the effect of new media on knowledge and vote likelihood should be determined by people's relative preferences for entertainment and information. Access to new media should increase knowledge and vote likelihood among people who prefer news. At the same time, it is hypothesized to have a negative effect on knowledge and turnout for people who prefer entertainment content. Hypotheses are tested by building a measure of Relative Entertainment Preference (REP) from existing NES and Pew survey data. Results support the predicted interaction effect of media environment (cable and/or Internet access) and motivation (REP) on political knowledge and turnout. In particular, people who prefer entertainment to news and have access to cable television and the Internet are less knowledgeable and less likely to vote than any other group of people.

Quality of service monitoring: Performance metrics across proprietary content domains

We propose a quality of service (QoS) monitoring program for broadband access to measure the impact of proprietary network spaces. Our paper surveys other QoS policy initiatives, including those in the airline, and wireless and wireline telephone industries, to situate broadband in the context of other markets undergoing regulatory devolution. We illustrate how network architecture can create impediments to open communications, and how QoS monitoring can detect such effects. We present data from a field test of QoS-monitoring software now in development. We suggest QoS metrics to gauge whether information "walled gardens" represent a real threat for dividing the Internet into proprietary spaces.
To demonstrate our proposal, we are placing our software on the computers of a sample of broadband subscribers. The software periodically conducts a battery of tests that assess the quality of connections from the subscriber's computer to various content sites. Any systematic differences in connection quality between affiliated and non-affiliated content sites would warrant research into the behavioral implications of those differences.
QoS monitoring is timely because the potential for the Internet to break into a loose network of proprietary content domains appears stronger than ever. Recent court rulings and policy statements suggest a growing trend towards relaxed scrutiny of mergers and the easing or elimination of content ownership rules. This policy environment could lead to a market with a small number of large, vertically integrated network operators, each pushing its proprietary content on subscribers.

Elusive Threats: Security Weaknesses of Commercial Cellular Networks

Commercial cellular telecommunications networks are routinely used as key means of voice and data transport by both businesses and the Public. Despite advances in encryption and other security measures, these commercial cellular networks remain extremely vulnerable to malicious attacks and the loss of user and data privacy and integrity. Such losses can result not only in mere inconvenience, but in serious corporate and national security breaches. Because of the potentially catastrophic nature of such security breaches, it behooves cellular network operators, distributors, and users to explore these network risk areas and mitigate them to the extent that current resources allow.

Digital Arroyos: An Examination of State Policy and Regulated Market Boundaries in Constructing Rural Internet Access

This focused study on state-level policy and access patterns contributes to a fuller understanding of how these invisible barriers work to structure access and define rural communities. Combining both quantitative and qualitative data, this study examines the role of geo-policy barriers in one of the largest and most rural states in the nation.
Expanded Area Service policies are state policies wherein phone customers can expand their local calling area. Because useful Internet access requires a flat-price connection, EAS policies can play a crucial role in connecting citizens to one another. EAS policies (including Texas') tend to vary along five dimensions (community of interest, customer scope, directionality, pricing mechanism and policy scope). EAS policies that rely on regulated market boundaries for definition can generate gross inequities in rural Internet access. Interviews with Internet Service Providers in a case study of 25 rural communities reveals that LATA and exchange boundaries, along with geographically restricted infrastructure investments, curtail service provision in remote areas. A statistical analysis of 1300 telephone exchanges, including 208 rural telephone exchanges in Texas reveals that the farther a community lies from a metropolitan area the less likely they are to have reliable Internet access

The Consumer Product Selection Process in an Internet Age: Obstacles to Maximum Effectiveness & Policy Options

Intermediaries, like real estate agents, Consumer Reports, and Zagats, have long helped buyers to identify their most suitable options. Now, the combination of databases and the Internet enables them to serve consumers dramatically more effectively. This article begins by offering a three-part framework for understanding the evolving forms of selection assistance. It then focuses on numerous potential obstacles that could prevent shoppers from enjoying the full benefits of these developing technologies. While concluding that adjustments to business strategies and the enforcement of existing laws can effectively overcome most of these impediments, the article identifies several areas where proactive government action may be desirable, such as to prevent the emergence of anticompetitive entry barriers.

Prospects for Improving Competition in Mobile Roaming

The ability to make international roaming calls is of increasing importance to customers in Europe. This contrasts with various complaints that retail prices of roaming calls are rigid and excessive. The focus if the paper is on wholesale roaming, which is the prime determinant of retail roaming prices. The paper analyses the structural conditions of wholesale roaming markets that have impaired incentives to competition, namely high combined market share of the two leading GSM 900 operators combined with second mover disadvantages for new entrant GSM 1800 operators, and demand externalities. The paper argues that a number of developments are under way that are likely to modify this situation in the future. With the introduction of SIM over-the-air programming, home mobile operators will be able to direct customers to networks with the lowest charges. As dual mode handsets become ubiquitous and as new entrant GSM 1800 operators reach nationwide coverage, second-mover disadvantages will disappear. Given the relatively small roaming volumes that GSM 1800 operators currently provide, they should have an incentive to lower charges in exchange for preferred roaming status. On the demand side of wholesale roaming markets, it will be the larger GSM 900 operators, and in particular those with a pan-European footprint, that will ask for lower charges in exchange for preferred roaming status. This could discriminate against mobile operators in downstream retail markets that do not have a pan-European footprint and that lack the bargaining power. However, arbitrage by roaming brokers, new entry and wider geographical markets on the retail roaming level will work against this.

Computer Security: Competing Concepts

This paper focuses on a tension we discovered in the philosophical part of our multidisciplinary project on values in web-browser security. Our project draws on the methods and perspectives of empirical social science, computer science, and philosophy to identify values embodied in existing web-browser security and also to prescribe changes to existing systems (in particular, Mozilla) so that values relevant to web-browser systems are better served than presently they are. The tension, which we had not seen explicitly addressed in any other work on computer security, emerged when we set out to extract from the concept of security the set values that ought to guide the shape of web-browser security. We found it impossible to construct an internally consistent set of values until we realized that two robust -- and in places competing -- conceptions of computer security were influencing our thinking. We needed to pry these apart and make a primary commitment to one. One conception of computer security invokes the ordinary meaning of security. According to it, computer security should protect people -- computer users -- against dangers, harms, and threats. Clearly this ordinary conception of security is already informing much of the work and rhetoric surrounding computer security. But another, substantively richer conception, also defines the aims and trajectory of computer security -- computer security as an element of national security. Although, like the ordinary conception, this one is also concerned with protection against threats, its primary subject is the state, not the individual. The two conceptions suggest divergent system-specifications, not for all mechanisms but a significant few.

Inventing E-Regulation in the US, EU and East Asia: Conflicting Social Visions of the Internet & the Information Society

This paper attempts to assess the international approach to Internet policy in the context of distinctive socio-political frameworks evolving in the US, the European Union (EU), and East Asia. The comparative review will develop a set of underlying structural models of the Information Society particular to each region, along with an analysis of their defining characteristics in relation to one another. This examination demonstrates how each region, given its regulatory legacy, has elected a different mix of good and bad socio-political choices in public policy for the Internet. Despite the range and diversity of paths to e-regulation suggested in these choices, none adequately addresses the underlying issue of how to promote an innovative society that is open to broad social participation. The paper evaluates principal weaknesses in these regional models of Internet policy and argues the need for re-conceptualizing the cultural, political and economic approach to the new information space of the Internet.

The temporal calculus of conditional objects and conditional events

We consider the problem of defining conditional objects (a|b), which would allow one to regard the conditional probability Pr(a|b) as a probability of a well-defined event rather than as a shorthand for Pr(ab)/Pr(b). The next issue is to define boolean combinations of conditional objects, and possibly also the operator of further conditioning. These questions have been investigated at least since the times of George Boole, leading to a number of formalisms proposed for conditional objects, mostly of syntactical, proof-theoretic vein.
We propose a unifying, semantical approach, in which conditional events are (projections of) Markov chains, definable in the three-valued extension of the past tense fragment of propositional linear time logic, or, equivalently, by three-valued counter-free Moore machines. Thus our conditional objects are indeed stochastic processes, one of the central notions of modern probability theory.
Our model fulfills early ideas of Bruno de Finetti and, moreover, as we show in a separate paper, all the previously proposed algebras of conditional events can be isomorphically embedded in our model.

Embedding conditional event algebras into temporal calculus of conditionals

In this paper we prove that all the existing conditional event algebras embed into a three-valued extension of temporal logic of discrete past time, which the authors of this paper have proposed in anothe paper as a general model of conditional events.
First of all, we discuss the descriptive incompleteness of the cea's. In this direction, we show that some important notions, like independence of conditional events, cannot be properly addressed in the framework of conditional event algebras, while they can be precisely formulated and analyzed in the temporal setting.
We also demonstrate that the embeddings allow one to use Markov chain algorithms (suitable for the temporal calculus) for computing probabilities of complex conditional expressions of the embedded conditional event algebras, and that these algorithms can outperform those previously known.

Two-way Quantum One-counter Automata

After the first treatments of quantum finite state automata by Moore and Crutchfield and by Kondacs and Watrous, a number of papers study the power of quantum finite state automata and their variants. This paper introduces a model of two-way quantum one-counter automata (2Q1CAs), combining the model of two-way quantum finite state automata (2QFAs) by Kondacs and Watrous and the model of one-way quantum one-counter automata (1Q1CAs) by Kravtsev. We give the definition of 2Q1CAs with well-formedness conditions. It is proved that 2Q1CAs are at least as powerful as classical two-way deterministic one-counter automata (2D1CAs), that is, every language L recognizable by 2D1CAs is recognized by 2Q1CAs with no error. It is also shown that several non-context-free languages including {a^n b^{n^2}} and {a^n b^{2^n}} are recognizable by 2Q1CAs with bounded error.

Electronic Commerce, Consumer Search and Retailing Cost Reduction

This paper explains four things in a unified way. First, how e-commerce can generate price equilibria where physical shops either compete with virtual shops for consumers with Internet access, or alternatively, sell only to consumers with no Internet access. Second, how these price equilibria might involve price dispersion on-line. Third, why prices may be higher on-line. Fourth, why established firms can, but need not, be more reluctant than newly created firm to adopt e-commerce. For this purpose we develop a model where e-commerce reduces consumers' search costs, involves trade-offs for consumers, and reduces retailing costs.

Variable and Value Ordering When Solving Balanced Academic Curriculum Problems

In this paper we present the use of Constraint Programming for solving balanced academic curriculum problems. We discuss the important role that heuristics play when solving a problem using a constraint-based approach. We also show how constraint solving techniques allow to very efficiently solve combinatorial optimization problems that are too hard for integer programming techniques.

Analyzing Website Choice Using Clickstream Data

This paper uses clickstream data from Plurimus Corp. (formerly Foveon Corp.) to analyze user choice of Internet portals. It will show that commonly used econometric models for examining grocery scanner data can be applied to clickstream data on advertising-based online markets. Developing a framework to study consumer choices of free websites is an essential step to better understanding user behavior on the Internet. The main data for this study is a clickstream data set consisting of every website visited by 2654 users from December 27 1999 to March 31 2000. Using this data, I construct several variables including search success, time spent searching, and whether a website is an individual's starting page. I also have advertising and media mentions data. This study helps to increase understanding of user behavior on the Internet. It explores some key determinants of website choice and simulates market responses to changes in the online environment. By better understanding website choice, we can better evaluate the implications of policy decisions.

Algorithmic Self-Assembly of DNA Tiles and its Application to Cryptanalysis

The early promises of DNA computing to deliver a massively parallel architecture well-suited to computationally hard problems have so far been largely unkept. Indeed, it is probably fair to say that only toy problems have been addressed experimentally. Recent experimental development on algorithmic self-assembly using DNA tiles seem to offer the most promising path toward a potentially useful application of the DNA computing concept. In this paper, we explore new geometries for algorithmic self-assembly, departing from those previously described in the literature. This enables us to carry out mathematical operations like binary multiplication or cyclic convolution product. We then show how to use the latter operation to implement an attack against the well-known public-key crypto system NTRU.

Pushdown Timed Automata: a Binary Reachability Characterization and Safety Verification

We consider pushdown timed automata (PTAs) that are timed automata (with dense clocks) augmented with a pushdown stack. A configuration of a PTA includes a control state, dense clock values and a stack word. By using the pattern technique, we give a decidable characterization of the binary reachability (i.e., the set of all pairs of configurations such that one can reach the other) of a PTA. Since a timed automaton can be treated as a PTA without the pushdown stack, we can show that the binary reachability of a timed automaton is definable in the additive theory of reals and integers. The results can be used to verify a class of properties containing linear relations over both dense variables and unbounded discrete variables. The properties previously could not be verified using the classic region technique nor expressed by timed temporal logics for timed automata and CTL$^*$ for pushdown systems. The results are also extended to other generalizations of timed automata.

The Minimum Expectation Selection Problem

We define the min-min expectation selection problem (resp. max-min expectation selection problem) to be that of selecting k out of n given discrete probability distributions, to minimize (resp. maximize) the expectation of the minimum value resulting when independent random variables are drawn from the selected distributions. We assume each distribution has finitely many atoms. Let d be the number of distinct values in the support of the distributions. We show that if d is a constant greater than 2, the min-min expectation problem is NP-complete but admits a fully polynomial time approximation scheme. For d an arbitrary integer, it is NP-hard to approximate the min-min expectation problem with any constant approximation factor. The max-min expectation problem is polynomially solvable for constant d; we leave open its complexity for variable d. We also show similar results for binary selection problems in which we must choose one distribution from each of n pairs of distributions.

Proceedings of the 6th Annual Workshop of the ERCIM Working Group on Constraints

Homepage of the workshop proceedings, with links to all individually archived papers

A Proposal for Dynamic Access Lists for TCP/IP Packet Filering

The use of IP filtering to improve system security is well established, and although limited in what it can achieve has proved to be efficient and effective.
In the design of a security policy there is always a trade-off between usability and security. Restricting access means that legitimate use of the network is prevented; allowing access means illegitimate use may be allowed. Static access list make finding a balance particularly stark -- we pay the price of decreased security 100% of the time even if the benefit of increased usability is only gained 1% of the time.
Dynamic access lists would allow the rules to change for short periods of time, and to allow local changes by non-experts. The network administrator can set basic security guide-lines which allow certain basic services only. All other services are restricted, but users are able to request temporary exceptions in order to allow additional access to the network. These exceptions are granted depending on the privileges of the user.
This paper covers the following topics: (1) basic introduction to TCP/IP filtering; (2) semantics for dynamic access lists and; (3) a proposed protocol for allowing dynamic access; and (4) a method for representing access lists so that dynamic update and look-up can be done efficiently performed.

The Open Language Archives Community and Asian Language Resources

The Open Language Archives Community (OLAC) is a new project to build a worldwide system of federated language archives based on the Open Archives Initiative and the Dublin Core Metadata Initiative. This paper aims to disseminate the OLAC vision to the language resources community in Asia, and to show language technologists and linguists how they can document their tools and data in such a way that others can easily discover them. We describe OLAC and the OLAC Metadata Set, then discuss two key issues in the Asian context: language classification and multilingual resource classification.

Richer Syntactic Dependencies for Structured Language Modeling

The paper investigates the use of richer syntactic dependencies in the structured language model (SLM). We present two simple methods of enriching the dependencies in the syntactic parse trees used for intializing the SLM. We evaluate the impact of both methods on the perplexity (PPL) and word-error-rate(WER, N-best rescoring) performance of the SLM. We show that the new model achieves an improvement in PPL and WER over the baseline results reported using the SLM on the UPenn Treebank and Wall Street Journal (WSJ) corpora, respectively.

Limits To Certainty in QoS Pricing and Bandwidth

Advanced services require more reliable bandwidth than currently provided by the Internet Protocol, even with the reliability enhancements provided by TCP. More reliable bandwidth will be provided through QoS (quality of service), as currently discussed widely. Yet QoS has some implications beyond providing ubiquitous access to advance Internet service, which are of interest from a policy perspective. In particular, what are the implications for price of Internet services? Further, how will these changes impact demand and universal service for the Internet. This paper explores the relationship between certainty of bandwidth and certainty of price for Internet services over a statistically shared network and finds that these are mutually exclusive goals.

The Increased Need For FCC Merger Review In A Networked World

Recently, the FCC announced a new standard for review in mergers. Under the new standard, mass media mergers that comply with existing rules will automaticly receive approval, while those that do not will receive a more searching review. Common carrier mergers, however, will continue to receive the 4=part test established in Bell Atlantic/Nynex. The new standard fails to take into account the complexities of the emerging, converged networked world, and is essentially obsolete on arrival. Looking to those areas where Congress has required an additional public interest review of mergers, a pattern emerges. The emergence of vast, vertically integrated networks of content and conduit fit the historic pattern of areas requiring piublic interest review and re-enforce the need for increased, rather than decreased merger review.

ENUM: The Collision of Telephony and DNS Policy

ENUM marks either the convergence or collision of the public telephone network with the Internet. ENUM is an innovation in the domain name system (DNS). It starts with numerical domain names that are used to query DNS name servers. The servers respond with address information found in DNS records. This can be telephone numbers, email addresses, fax numbers, SIP addresses, or other information. The concept is to use a single number in order to obtain a plethora of contact information.
By convention, the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) ENUM Working Group determined that an ENUM number would be the same numerical string as a telephone number. In addition, the assignee of an ENUM number would be the assignee of that telephone number. But ENUM could work with any numerical string or, in fact, any domain name. The IETF is already working on using E.212 numbers with ENUM. [Abridged]

New approach for network monitoring and intrusion detection

The approach for a network behavior description in terms of numerical time-dependant functions of the protocol parameters is suggested. This provides a basis for application of methods of mathematical and theoretical physics for information flow analysis on network and for extraction of patterns of typical network behavior. The information traffic can be described as a trajectory in multi-dimensional parameter-time space with dimension about 10-12. Based on this study some algorithms for the proposed intrusion detection system are discussed.

Structuring Business Metadata in Data Warehouse Systems for Effective Business Support

Large organizations today are being served by different types of data processing and informations systems, ranging from the operational (OLTP) systems, data warehouse systems, to data mining and business intelligence applications. It is important to create an integrated repository of what these systems contain and do in order to use them collectively and effectively. The repository contains metadata of source systems, data warehouse, and also the business metadata. Decision support and business analysis require extensive and in-depth understanding of business entities, tasks, rules and the environment. The purpose of business metadata is to provide this understanding. Realizing the importance of metadata, many standardization efforts has been initiated to define metadata models. In trying to define an integrated metadata and information systems for a banking application, we discover some important limitations or inadequacies of the business metadata proposals. They relate to providing an integrated and flexible inter-operability and navigation between metadata and data, and to the important issue of systematically handling temporal characteristics and evolution of the metadata itself.
In this paper, we study the issue of structuring business metadata so that it can provide a context for business management and decision support when integrated with data warehousing. We define temporal object-oriented business metadata model, and relate it both to the technical metadata and the data warehouse. We also define ways of accessing and navigating metadata in conjunction with data.

Alife Model of Evolutionary Emergence of Purposeful Adaptive Behavior

The process of evolutionary emergence of purposeful adaptive behavior is investigated by means of computer simulations. The model proposed implies that there is an evolving population of simple agents, which have two natural needs: energy and reproduction. Any need is characterized quantitatively by a corresponding motivation. Motivations determine goal-directed behavior of agents. The model demonstrates that purposeful behavior does emerge in the simulated evolutionary processes. Emergence of purposefulness is accompanied by origin of a simple hierarchy in the control system of agents.

Mixed-Initiative Interaction = Mixed Computation

We show that partial evaluation can be usefully viewed as a programming model for realizing mixed-initiative functionality in interactive applications. Mixed-initiative interaction between two participants is one where the parties can take turns at any time to change and steer the flow of interaction. We concentrate on the facet of mixed-initiative referred to as `unsolicited reporting' and demonstrate how out-of-turn interactions by users can be modeled by `jumping ahead' to nested dialogs (via partial evaluation). Our approach permits the view of dialog management systems in terms of their native support for staging and simplifying interactions; we characterize three different voice-based interaction technologies using this viewpoint. In particular, we show that the built-in form interpretation algorithm (FIA) in the VoiceXML dialog management architecture is actually a (well disguised) combination of an interpreter and a partial evaluator.

Set Unification

The unification problem in algebras capable of describing sets has been tackled, directly or indirectly, by many researchers and it finds important applications in various research areas--e.g., deductive databases, theorem proving, static analysis, rapid software prototyping. The various solutions proposed are spread across a large literature. In this paper we provide a uniform presentation of unification of sets, formalizing it at the level of set theory. We address the problem of deciding existence of solutions at an abstract level. This provides also the ability to classify different types of set unification problems. Unification algorithms are uniformly proposed to solve the unification problem in each of such classes.
The algorithms presented are partly drawn from the literature--and properly revisited and analyzed--and partly novel proposals. In particular, we present a new goal-driven algorithm for general ACI1 unification and a new simpler algorithm for general (Ab)(Cl) unification.

Pretty-Simple Password-Authenticated Key-Exchange Protocol

We propose pretty simple password-authenticated key-exchange protocol which is based on the difficulty of solving DDH problem. It has the following advantages: (1) Both $y_1$ and $y_2$ in our protocol are independent and thus they can be pre-computed and can be sent independently. This speeds up the protocol. (2) Clients and servers can use almost the same algorithm. This reduces the implementation costs without accepting replay attacks and abuse of entities as oracles.

Information retrieval in Current Research Information Systems

In this paper we describe the requirements for research information systems and problems which arise in the development of such system. Here is shown which problems could be solved by using of knowledge markup technologies. Ontology for Research Information System offered. Architecture for collecting research data and providing access to it is described.

Part-of-Speech Tagging with Two Sequential Transducers

We present a method of constructing and using a cascade consisting of a left- and a right-sequential finite-state transducer (FST), T1 and T2, for part-of-speech (POS) disambiguation. Compared to an HMM, this FST cascade has the advantage of significantly higher processing speed, but at the cost of slightly lower accuracy. Applications such as Information Retrieval, where the speed can be more important than accuracy, could benefit from this approach.
In the process of tagging, we first assign every word a unique ambiguity class c_i that can be looked up in a lexicon encoded by a sequential FST. Every c_i is denoted by a single symbol, e.g. [ADJ_NOUN], although it represents a set of alternative tags that a given word can occur with. The sequence of the c_i of all words of one sentence is the input to our FST cascade. It is mapped by T1, from left to right, to a sequence of reduced ambiguity classes r_i. Every r_i is denoted by a single symbol, although it represents a set of alternative tags. Intuitively, T1 eliminates the less likely tags from c_i, thus creating r_i. Finally, T2 maps the sequence of r_i, from right to left, to a sequence of single POS tags t_i. Intuitively, T2 selects the most likely t_i from every r_i.
The probabilities of all t_i, r_i, and c_i are used only at compile time, not at run time. They do not (directly) occur in the FSTs, but are "implicitly contained" in their structure.

On Equivalence and Canonical Forms in the LF Type Theory

Decidability of definitional equality and conversion of terms into canonical form play a central role in the meta-theory of a type-theoretic logical framework. Most studies of definitional equality are based on a confluent, strongly-normalizing notion of reduction. Coquand has considered a different approach, directly proving the correctness of a practical equivalance algorithm based on the shape of terms. Neither approach appears to scale well to richer languages with unit types or subtyping, and neither directly addresses the problem of conversion to canonical.
In this paper we present a new, type-directed equivalence algorithm for the LF type theory that overcomes the weaknesses of previous approaches. The algorithm is practical, scales to richer languages, and yields a new notion of canonical form sufficient for adequate encodings of logical systems. The algorithm is proved complete by a Kripke-style logical relations argument similar to that suggested by Coquand. Crucially, both the algorithm itself and the logical relations rely only on the shapes of types, ignoring dependencies on terms.

How to Commission, Operate and Maintain a Large Future Accelerator Complex from Far Remote

A study on future large accelerators [1] has considered a facility, which is designed, built and operated by a worldwide collaboration of equal partner institutions, and which is remote from most of these institutions. The full range of operation was considered including commi-ssioning, machine development, maintenance, trouble shooting and repair. Experience from existing accele-rators confirms that most of these activities are already performed 'remotely'. The large high-energy physics ex-periments and astronomy projects, already involve inter-national collaborations of distant institutions. Based on this experience, the prospects for a machine operated remotely from far sites are encouraging. Experts from each laboratory would remain at their home institution but continue to participate in the operation of the machine after construction. Experts are required to be on site only during initial commissioning and for par-ticularly difficult problems. Repairs require an on-site non-expert maintenance crew. Most of the interventions can be made without an expert and many of the rest resolved with remote assistance. There appears to be no technical obstacle to controlling an accelerator from a distance. The major challenge is to solve the complex management and communication problems.

Dense point sets have sparse Delaunay triangulations

The spread of a finite set of points is the ratio between the longest and shortest pairwise distances. We prove that the Delaunay triangulation of any set of n points in R^3 with spread D has complexity O(D^3). This bound is tight in the worst case for all D = O(sqrt{n}). In particular, the Delaunay triangulation of any dense point set has linear complexity. We also generalize this upper bound to regular triangulations of k-ply systems of balls, unions of several dense point sets, and uniform samples of smooth surfaces. On the other hand, for any n and D=O(n), we construct a regular triangulation of complexity Omega(nD) whose n vertices have spread D.

Depth-3 Arithmetic Circuits for S^2_n(X) and Extensions of the Graham-Pollack Theorem

We consider the problem of computing the second elementary symmetric polynomial S^2_n(X) using depth-three arithmetic circuits of the form "sum of products of linear forms". We consider this problem over several fields and determine EXACTLY the number of multiplication gates required. The lower bounds are proved for inhomogeneous circuits where the linear forms are allowed to have constants; the upper bounds are proved in the homogeneous model. For reals and rationals, the number of multiplication gates required is exactly n-1; in most other cases, it is \ceil{n/2}. This problem is related to the Graham-Pollack theorem in algebraic graph theory. In particular, our results answer the following question of Babai and Frankl: what is the minimum number of complete bipartite graphs required to cover each edge of a complete graph an odd number of times? We show that for infinitely many n, the answer is \ceil{n/2}.

A logic-based approach to data integration

An important aspect of data integration involves answering queries using various resources rather than by accessing database relations. The process of transforming a query from the database relations to the resources is often referred to as query folding or answering queries using views, where the views are the resources. We present a uniform approach that includes as special cases much of the previous work on this subject. Our approach is logic-based using resolution. We deal with integrity constraints, negation, and recursion also within this framework.

Inference of termination conditions for numerical loops in Prolog

We present a new approach to termination analysis of numerical computations in logic programs. Traditional approaches fail to analyse them due to non well-foundedness of the integers. We present a technique that allows overcoming these difficulties. Our approach is based on transforming a program in a way that allows integrating and extending techniques originally developed for analysis of numerical computations in the framework of query-mapping pairs with the well-known framework of acceptability. Such an integration not only contributes to the understanding of termination behaviour of numerical computations, but also allows us to perform a correct analysis of such computations automatically, by extending previous work on a constraint-based approach to termination. Finally, we discuss possible extensions of the technique, including incorporating general term orderings.

On termination of meta-programs

The term {\em meta-programming} refers to the ability of writing programs that have other programs as data and exploit their semantics.
The aim of this paper is presenting a methodology allowing us to perform a correct termination analysis for a broad class of practical meta-interpreters, including negation and performing different tasks during the execution. It is based on combining the power of general orderings, used in proving termination of term-rewrite systems and programs, and on the well-known acceptability condition, used in proving termination of logic programs.
The methodology establishes a relationship between the ordering needed to prove termination of the interpreted program and the ordering needed to prove termination of the meta-interpreter together with this interpreted program. If such a relationship is established, termination of one of those implies termination of the other one, i.e., the meta-interpreter preserves termination.
Among the meta-interpreters that are analysed correctly are a proof trees constructing meta-interpreter, different kinds of tracers and reasoners.
To appear without appendix in Theory and Practice of Logic Programming.

Efficient algorithms for decision tree cross-validation

Cross-validation is a useful and generally applicable technique often employed in machine learning, including decision tree induction. An important disadvantage of straightforward implementation of the technique is its computational overhead. In this paper we show that, for decision trees, the computational overhead of cross-validation can be reduced significantly by integrating the cross-validation with the normal decision tree induction process. We discuss how existing decision tree algorithms can be adapted to this aim, and provide an analysis of the speedups these adaptations may yield. The analysis is supported by experimental results.

Practical Aspects for a Working Compile Time Garbage Collection System for Mercury

Compile-time garbage collection (CTGC) is still a very uncommon feature within compilers. In previous work we have developed a compile-time structure reuse system for Mercury, a logic programming language. This system indicates which datastructures can safely be reused at run-time. As preliminary experiments were promising, we have continued this work and have now a working and well performing near-to-ship CTGC-system built into the Melbourne Mercury Compiler (MMC).
In this paper we present the multiple design decisions leading to this system, we report the results of using CTGC for a set of benchmarks, including a real-world program, and finally we discuss further possible improvements. Benchmarks show substantial memory savings and a noticeable reduction in execution time.

Counting is Easy

For any fixed $k$, a remarkably simple single-tape Turing machine can simulate $k$ independent counters in real time. Informally, a counter is a storage unit that maintains a single integer (initially 0), incrementing it, decrementing it, or reporting its sign (positive, negative, or zero) on command. Any automaton that responds to each successive command as a counter would is said to simulate a counter. (Only for a sign inquiry is the response of interest, of course. And zeroness is the only real issue, since a simulator can readily use zero detection to keep track of positivity and negativity in finite-state control. In this paper we describe a remarkably simple real-time simulation, based on just five simple rewriting rules, of any fixed number $k$ of independent counters. On a Turing machine with a single, binary work tape, the simulation runs in real time, handling an arbitrary counter command at each step. The space used by the simulation can be held to $(k+ε) \log_2 n$ bits for the first $n$ commands, for any specified $ε> 0$.

Two heads are better than two tapes

We show that a Turing machine with two single-head one-dimensional tapes cannot recognize the set {x2x'| x \in {0,1}^* and x' is a prefix of x} in real time, although it can do so with three tapes, two two-dimensional tapes, or one two-head tape, or in linear time with just one tape. In particular, this settles the longstanding conjecture that a two-head Turing machine can recognize more languages in real time if its heads are on the same one-dimensional tape than if they are on separate one-dimensional tapes.

A New Approach to Formal Language Theory by Kolmogorov Complexity

We present a new approach to formal language theory using Kolmogorov complexity. The main results presented here are an alternative for pumping lemma(s), a new characterization for regular languages, and a new method to separate deterministic context-free languages and nondeterministic context-free languages. The use of the new `incompressibility arguments' is illustrated by many examples. The approach is also successful at the high end of the Chomsky hierarchy since one can quantify nonrecursiveness in terms of Kolmogorov complexity. (This is a preliminary uncorrected version. The final version is the one published in SIAM J. Comput., 24:2(1995), 398-410.)

Towards Solving the Interdisciplinary Language Barrier Problem

This work aims to make it easier for a specialist in one field to find and explore ideas from another field which may be useful in solving a new problem arising in his practice. It presents a methodology which serves to represent the relationships that exist between concepts, problems, and solution patterns from different fields of human activity in the form of a graph. Our approach is based upon generalization and specialization relationships and problem solving. It is simple enough to be understood quite easily, and general enough to enable coherent integration of concepts and problems from virtually any field. We have built an implementation which uses the World Wide Web as a support to allow navigation between graph nodes and collaborative development of the graph.

An Architecture for Security and Privacy in Mobile Communications

There is much discussion and debate about how to improve the security and privacy of mobile communication systems, both voice and data. Most proposals attempt to provide incremental improvements to systems that are deployed today. Indeed, only incremental improvements are possible, given the regulatory, technological, economic, and historical structure of the telecommunications system. In this paper, we conduct a ``thought experiment'' to redesign the mobile communications system to provide a high level of security and privacy for the users of the system. We discuss the important requirements and how a different architecture might successfully satisfy them. In doing so, we hope to illuminate the possibilities for secure and private systems, as well as explore their real limits.

EquiX--A Search and Query Language for XML

EquiX is a search language for XML that combines the power of querying with the simplicity of searching. Requirements for such languages are discussed and it is shown that EquiX meets the necessary criteria. Both a graph-based abstract syntax and a formal concrete syntax are presented for EquiX queries. In addition, the semantics is defined and an evaluation algorithm is presented. The evaluation algorithm is polynomial under combined complexity.
EquiX combines pattern matching, quantification and logical expressions to query both the data and meta-data of XML documents. The result of a query in EquiX is a set of XML documents. A DTD describing the result documents is derived automatically from the query.

From 2G TO 3G - The Evolution of International Cellular Standards

The purpose of this paper is to examine the major factors surrouding and contributing to the creation (and success) of Europe's 2nd generation 'GSM' cellular system, and compare and contrast it to key events and recent developments in 3rd generation 'IMT-2000' systems. The objective is to ascertain whether lessons from the development of one system can be applied to the other, and what implications 2G has for the development and assessment of 3G technologies. Among the major themes incorporated into this assessment is the concept of cooperation, and its role in bringing about the collaboration and integration necessary to support the success of an international cellular standard.

The Expresso Microarray Experiment Management System: The Functional Genomics of Stress Responses in Loblolly Pine

Conception, design, and implementation of cDNA microarray experiments present a variety of bioinformatics challenges for biologists and computational scientists. The multiple stages of data acquisition and analysis have motivated the design of Expresso, a system for microarray experiment management. Salient aspects of Expresso include support for clone replication and randomized placement; automatic gridding, extraction of expression data from each spot, and quality monitoring; flexible methods of combining data from individual spots into information about clones and functional categories; and the use of inductive logic programming for higher-level data analysis and mining. The development of Expresso is occurring in parallel with several generations of microarray experiments aimed at elucidating genomic responses to drought stress in loblolly pine seedlings. The current experimental design incorporates 384 pine cDNAs replicated and randomly placed in two specific microarray layouts. We describe the design of Expresso as well as results of analysis with Expresso that suggest the importance of molecular chaperones and membrane transport proteins in mechanisms conferring successful adaptation to long-term drought stress.

Multivariant Branching Prediction, Reflection, and Retrospection

In branching simulation, a novel approach to simulation presented in this paper, a multiplicity of plausible scenarios are concurrently developed and implemented. In conventional simulations of complex systems, there arise from time to time uncertainties as to which of two or more alternatives are more likely to be pursued by the system being simulated. Under these conditions the simulationist makes a judicious choice of one of these alternatives and embeds this choice in the simulation model. By contrast, in the branching approach, two or more of such alternatives (or branches) are included in the model and implemented for concurrent computer solution. The theoretical foundations for branching simulation as a computational process are in the domains of alternating Turing machines, molecular computing, and E-machines. Branching simulations constitute the development of diagrams of scenarios representing significant, alternative flows of events. Logical means for interpretation and investigation of the branching simulation and prediction are provided by the logical theories of possible worlds, which have been formalized by the construction of logical varieties. Under certain conditions, the branching approach can considerably enhance the efficiency of computer simulations and provide more complete insights into the interpretation of predictions based on simulations. As an example, the concepts developed in this paper have been applied to a simulation task that plays an important role in radiology - the noninvasive treatment of brain aneurysms.

A Symmetric Strategy in Graph Avoidance Games

In the graph avoidance game two players alternatingly color edges of a graph G in red and in blue respectively. The player who first creates a monochromatic subgraph isomorphic to a forbidden graph F loses. A symmetric strategy of the second player ensures that, independently of the first player's strategy, the blue and the red subgraph are isomorphic after every round of the game. We address the class of those graphs G that admit a symmetric strategy for all F and discuss relevant graph-theoretic and complexity issues. We also show examples when, though a symmetric strategy on G generally does not exist, it is still available for a particular F.

What is the minimal set of fragments that achieves maximal parse accuracy?

We aim at finding the minimal set of fragments which achieves maximal parse accuracy in Data Oriented Parsing. Experiments with the Penn Wall Street Journal treebank show that counts of almost arbitrary fragments within parse trees are important, leading to improved parse accuracy over previous models tested on this treebank (a precision of 90.8% and a recall of 90.6%). We isolate some dependency relations which previous models neglect but which contribute to higher parse accuracy.

Combining semantic and syntactic structure for language modeling

Structured language models for speech recognition have been shown to remedy the weaknesses of n-gram models. All current structured language models are, however, limited in that they do not take into account dependencies between non-headwords. We show that non-headword dependencies contribute to significantly improved word error rate, and that a data-oriented parsing model trained on semantically and syntactically annotated data can exploit these dependencies. This paper also contains the first DOP model trained by means of a maximum likelihood reestimation procedure, which solves some of the theoretical shortcomings of previous DOP models.

Mragyati : A System for Keyword-based Searching in Databases

The web, through many search engine sites, has popularized the keyword-based search paradigm, where a user can specify a string of keywords and expect to retrieve relevant documents, possibly ranked by their relevance to the query. Since a lot of information is stored in databases (and not as HTML documents), it is important to provide a similar search paradigm for databases, where users can query a database without knowing the database schema and database query languages such as SQL. In this paper, we propose such a database search system, which accepts a free-form query as a collection of keywords, translates it into queries on the database using the database metadata, and presents query results in a well-structured and browsable form. Th eysytem maps keywords onto the database schema and uses inter-relationships (i.e., data semantics) among the referred tables to generate meaningful query results. We also describe our prototype for database search, called Mragyati. Th eapproach proposed here is scalable, as it does not build an in-memory graph of the entire database for searching for relationships among the objects selected by the user's query.

Vertex-Unfoldings of Simplicial Manifolds

We present an algorithm to unfold any triangulated 2-manifold (in particular, any simplicial polyhedron) into a non-overlapping, connected planar layout in linear time. The manifold is cut only along its edges. The resulting layout is connected, but it may have a disconnected interior; the triangles are connected at vertices, but not necessarily joined along edges. We extend our algorithm to establish a similar result for simplicial manifolds of arbitrary dimension.

Probabilistic analysis of a differential equation for linear programming

In this paper we address the complexity of solving linear programming problems with a set of differential equations that converge to a fixed point that represents the optimal solution. Assuming a probabilistic model, where the inputs are i.i.d. Gaussian variables, we compute the distribution of the convergence rate to the attracting fixed point. Using the framework of Random Matrix Theory, we derive a simple expression for this distribution in the asymptotic limit of large problem size. In this limit, we find that the distribution of the convergence rate is a scaling function, namely it is a function of one variable that is a combination of three parameters: the number of variables, the number of constraints and the convergence rate, rather than a function of these parameters separately. We also estimate numerically the distribution of computation times, namely the time required to reach a vicinity of the attracting fixed point, and find that it is also a scaling function. Using the problem size dependence of the distribution functions, we derive high probability bounds on the convergence rates and on the computation times.

Generating Multilingual Personalized Descriptions of Museum Exhibits - The M-PIRO Project

This paper provides an overall presentation of the M-PIRO project. M-PIRO is developing technology that will allow museums to generate automatically textual or spoken descriptions of exhibits for collections available over the Web or in virtual reality environments. The descriptions are generated in several languages from information in a language-independent database and small fragments of text, and they can be tailored according to the backgrounds of the users, their ages, and their previous interaction with the system. An authoring tool allows museum curators to update the system's database and to control the language and content of the resulting descriptions. Although the project is still in progress, a Web-based demonstrator that supports English, Greek and Italian is already available, and it is used throughout the paper to highlight the capabilities of the emerging technology.

Teaching Parallel Programming Using Both High-Level and Low-Level Languages

We discuss the use of both MPI and OpenMP in the teaching of senior undergraduate and junior graduate classes in parallel programming. We briefly introduce the OpenMP standard and discuss why we have chosen to use it in parallel programming classes. Advantages of using OpenMP over message passing methods are discussed. We also include a brief enumeration of some of the drawbacks of using OpenMP and how these drawbacks are being addressed by supplementing OpenMP with additional MPI codes and projects. Several projects given in my class are also described in this paper.

Nonorthogonal Polyhedra Built from Rectangles

We prove that any polyhedron of genus zero or genus one built out of rectangular faces must be an orthogonal polyhedron, but that there are nonorthogonal polyhedra of genus seven all of whose faces are rectangles. This leads to a resolution of a question posed by Biedl, Lubiw, and Sun [BLS99].

Selected Topics in Asynchronous Automata

The paper is concerned with defining the electrical signals and their models. The delays are discussed, the asynchronous automata - which are the models of the asynchronous circuits - and the examples of the clock generator and of the R-S latch are given. We write the equations of the asynchronous automata, which combine the pure delay model and the inertial delay model; the simple gate model and the complex gate model; the fixed, bounded and unbounded delay model. We give the solutions of these equations, which are written on R->{0,1} functions, where R is the time set. The connection between the real time and the discrete time is discussed. The stability, the fundamental mode of operation, the combinational automata, the semi-modularity are defined and characterized. Some connections are suggested with the linear time and the branching time temporal logic of the propositions.

An Asynchronous Automata Approach to the Semantics of Temporal Logic

The paper presents the differential equations that characterize an asynchronous automaton and gives their solution x:R->{0,1}x...x{0,1}. Remarks are made on the connection between the continuous time and the discrete time of the approach. The continuous and the discrete time, the linear and the branching temporal logics have the semantics depending on x and their formulas give the properties of the automaton.

The Delay-Insensitivity, the Hazard-Freedom, the Semi-Modularity and the Technical Condition of Good Running of the Discrete Time Asynchronous Automata

The paper studies some important properties of the asynchronous (=timed) automata: the delay-insensitivity, the hazard-freedom, the semi-modularity and the technical condition of good running. Time is discrete.

The Existence of $ω$-Chains for Transitive Mixed Linear Relations and Its Applications

We show that it is decidable whether a transitive mixed linear relation has an $ω$-chain. Using this result, we study a number of liveness verification problems for generalized timed automata within a unified framework. More precisely, we prove that (1) the mixed linear liveness problem for a timed automaton with dense clocks, reversal-bounded counters, and a free counter is decidable, and (2) the Presburger liveness problem for a timed automaton with discrete clocks, reversal-bounded counters, and a pushdown stack is decidable.

Applications of the Differential Calculus in the Study of the Timed Automata: the Inertial Delay Buffer

We write the relations that characterize the simpliest timed automaton, the inertial delay buffer, in two versions: the non-deterministic and the deterministic one, by making use of the derivatives of the R->{0,1} functions.

Analysis of Investment Policy in Belarus

The optimal planning trajectory is analyzed on the basis of the growth model with effectiveness. The saving per capital value has to be rather high initially with smooth decrement in the future years.

The Use of Classifiers in Sequential Inference

We study the problem of combining the outcomes of several different classifiers in a way that provides a coherent inference that satisfies some constraints. In particular, we develop two general approaches for an important subproblem-identifying phrase structure. The first is a Markovian approach that extends standard HMMs to allow the use of a rich observation structure and of general classifiers to model state-observation dependencies. The second is an extension of constraint satisfaction formalisms. We develop efficient combination algorithms under both models and study them experimentally in the context of shallow parsing.

The Relational Database Aspects of Argonne's ATLAS Control System

The Relational Database Aspects of Argonnes ATLAS Control System Argonnes ATLAS (Argonne Tandem Linac Accelerator System) control system comprises two separate database concepts. The first is the distributed real-time database structure provided by the commercial product Vsystem [1]. The second is a more static relational database archiving system designed by ATLAS personnel using Oracle Rdb [2] and Paradox [3] software. The configuration of the ATLAS facility has presented a unique opportunity to construct a control system relational database that is capable of storing and retrieving complete archived tune-up configurations for the entire accelerator. This capability has been a major factor in allowing the facility to adhere to a rigorous operating schedule. Most recently, a Web-based operator interface to the control systems Oracle Rdb database has been installed. This paper explains the history of the ATLAS database systems, how they interact with each other, the design of the new Web-based operator interface, and future plans.

Automated Real-Time Testing (ARTT) for Embedded Control Systems (ECS)

Developing real-time automated test systems for embedded control systems has been a real problem. Some engineers and scientists have used customized software and hardware as a solution, which can be very expensive and time consuming to develop. We have discovered how to integrate a suite of commercially available off-the-shelf software tools and hardware to develop a scalable test platform that is capable of performing complete black-box testing for a dual-channel real-time Embedded-PLC-based control system (www.aps.anl.gov). We will discuss how the Vali/Test Pro testing methodology was implemented to structure testing for a personnel safety system with large quantities of requirements and test cases.
This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Basic Energy Sciences, under Contract No. W-31-109-Eng-38.

Explaining Scenarios for Information Personalization

Personalization customizes information access. The PIPE ("Personalization is Partial Evaluation") modeling methodology represents interaction with an information space as a program. The program is then specialized to a user's known interests or information seeking activity by the technique of partial evaluation. In this paper, we elaborate PIPE by considering requirements analysis in the personalization lifecycle. We investigate the use of scenarios as a means of identifying and analyzing personalization requirements. As our first result, we show how designing a PIPE representation can be cast as a search within a space of PIPE models, organized along a partial order. This allows us to view the design of a personalization system, itself, as specialized interpretation of an information space. We then exploit the underlying equivalence of explanation-based generalization (EBG) and partial evaluation to realize high-level goals and needs identified in scenarios; in particular, we specialize (personalize) an information space based on the explanation of a user scenario in that information space, just as EBG specializes a theory based on the explanation of an example in that theory. In this approach, personalization becomes the transformation of information spaces to support the explanation of usage scenarios. An example application is described.

On the complexity of inducing categorical and quantitative association rules

Inducing association rules is one of the central tasks in data mining applications. Quantitative association rules induced from databases describe rich and hidden relationships holding within data that can prove useful for various application purposes (e.g., market basket analysis, customer profiling, and others). Even though such association rules are quite widely used in practice, a thorough analysis of the computational complexity of inducing them is missing. This paper intends to provide a contribution in this setting. To this end, we first formally define quantitative association rule mining problems, which entail boolean association rules as a special case, and then analyze their computational complexities, by considering both the standard cases, and a some special interesting case, that is, association rule induction over databases with null values, fixed-size attribute set databases, sparse databases, fixed threshold problems.

Abduction with Penalization in Logic Programming

Abduction, first proposed in the setting of classical logics, has been studied with growing interest in the logic programming area during the last years.
In this paper we study {\em abduction with penalization} in logic programming. This form of abductive reasoning, which has not been previously analyzed in logic programming, turns out to represent several relevant problems, including optimization problems, very naturally. We define a formal model for abduction with penalization from logic programs, which extends the abductive framework proposed by Kakas and Mancarella. We show the high expressiveness of this formalism, by encoding a couple of relevant problems, including the well-know Traveling Salesman Problem from optimization theory, in this abductive framework. The resulting encodings are very simple and elegant. We analyze the complexity of the main decisional problems arising in this framework. An interesting result in this course is that ``negation comes for free.'' Indeed, the addition of (even unstratified) negation does not cause any further increase to the complexity of the abductive reasoning tasks (which remains the same as for not-free programs).

Sintesi di algoritmi con SKY

This paper describes the semantics and ideas about SKY, a logic programming language intended in order to specify algorithmic strategies for the evaluation of problems.

Intelligent Anticipated Exploration of Web Sites

In this paper we describe a web search agent, called Global Search Agent (hereafter GSA for short). GSA integrates and enhances several search techniques in order to achieve significant improvements in the user-perceived quality of delivered information as compared to usual web search engines. GSA features intelligent merging of relevant documents from different search engines, anticipated selective exploration and evaluation of links from the current result set, automated derivation of refined queries based on user relevance feedback. System architecture as well as experimental accounts are also illustrated.

The SDSS SkyServer, Public Access to the Sloan Digital Sky Server Data

The SkyServer provides Internet access to the public Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) data for both astronomers and for science education. This paper describes the SkyServer goals and architecture. It also describes our experience operating the SkyServer on the Internet. The SDSS data is public and well-documented so it makes a good test platform for research on database algorithms and performance.

Application Software Structure Enables Nif Operations Kirby W. Fong

The NIF Integrated Computer Control System (ICCS) application software uses a set of service frameworks that assures uniform behavior spanning the front-end processors (FEPs) and supervisor programs. This uniformity is visible both in the way each program employs shared services and in the flexibility it affords for attaching graphical user interfaces (GUIs). Uniformity of structure across applications is desired for the benefit of programmers who will be maintaining the many programs that constitute the ICCS. In this paper, the framework components that have the greatest impact on the application structure are discussed.

First Experiences Integrating PC Distributed I/O Into Argonne's ATLAS Control System

First Experiences Integrating PC Distributed I/O Into Argonne's ATLAS Control System The roots of ATLAS (Argonne Tandem-Linac Accelerator System) date back to the early 1960s. Located at the Argonne National Laboratory, the accelerator has been designated a National User Facility, which focuses primarily on heavy-ion nuclear physics. Like the accelerator it services, the control system has been in a constant state of evolution. The present real-time portion of the control system is based on the commercial product Vsystem [1]. While Vsystem has always been capable of distributed I/O processing, the latest offering of this product provides for the use of relatively inexpensive PC hardware and software. This paper reviews the status of the ATLAS control system, and describes first experiences with PC distributed I/O.

Data Acquisition and Database Management System for Samsung Superconductor Test Facility

In order to fulfill the test requirement of KSTAR (Korea Superconducting Tokamak Advanced Research) superconducting magnet system, a large scale superconducting magnet and conductor test facility, SSTF (Samsung Superconductor Test Facility), has been constructed at Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology. The computer system for SSTF DAC (Data Acquisition and Control) is based on UNIX system and VxWorks is used for the real-time OS of the VME system. EPICS (Experimental Physics and Industrial Control System) is used for the communication between IOC server and client. A database program has been developed for the efficient management of measured data and a Linux workstation with PENTIUM-4 CPU is used for the database server. In this paper, the current status of SSTF DAC system, the database management system and recent test results are presented.

Application of digital regulated Power Supplies for Magnet Control at the Swiss Light Source

The Swiss Light Source (SLS) has in the order of 500 magnet power supplies (PS) installed, ranging from from 3 A/20 V four-quadrant PS to a 950 A/1000 V two-quadrant 3 Hz PS. All magnet PS have a local digital controller for a digital regulation loop and a 5 MHz optical point-to-point link to the VME level. The PS controller is running a pulse width/pulse repetition regulation scheme, optional with multiple slave regulation loops. Many internal regulation parameters and controller diagnostics are readable by the control system. Industry Pack modules with standard VME carrier cards are used as VME hardware interface with the high control density of eight links per VME card. The low level EPICS interface is identical for all 500 magnet PS, including insertion devices. The digital PS have proven to be very stable and reliable during commissioning of the light source. All specifications were met for all PS. The advanced diagnostic for the magnet PS turned out to be very useful not only for the diagnostic of the PS but also to identify problems on the magnets.

System Integration of High Level Applications during the Commissioning of the Swiss Light Source

The commissioning of the Swiss Light Source (SLS) started in Feb. 2000 with the Linac, continued in May 2000 with the booster synchrotron and by Dec. 2000 first light in the storage ring were produced. The first four beam lines had to be operational by August 2001. The thorough integration of all subsystems to the control system and a high level of automation was prerequisite to meet the tight time schedule. A careful balanced distribution of functionality into high level and low level applications allowed an optimization of short development cycles and high reliability of the applications. High level applications were implemented as CORBA based client/server applications (tcl/tk and Java based clients, C++ based servers), IDL applications using EZCA, medm/dm2k screens and tcl/tk applications using CDEV. Low level applications were mainly built as EPICS process databases, SNL state machines and customized drivers. Functionality of the high level application was encapsulated and pushed to lower levels whenever it has proven to be adequate. That enabled to reduce machine setups to a handful of physical parameters and allow the usage of standard EPICS tools for display, archiving and processing of complex physical values. High reliability and reproducibility were achieved with that approach.

Distributed Computing for Localized and Multilayer Visualizations

The aim of this paper is to develop an approach to visualizations that benefits from distributed computing. Three schemes of process distribution are considered: parallel, pipeline, and expanding pipeline computations. Expanding pipeline structure synthesizes the advantages and traits of both parallel and pipeline computations. In expanding pipeline computing, a novel approach presented in this paper, a multiplicity of processes are concurrently developed in parallel and knotted processor pipelines. The theoretical foundations for expanding pipeline computing as a computational process are in the domains of alternating Turing machines, molecular computing, and E-machines. Expanding pipeline computing constitutes the development of the conventional pipeline architecture aimed at utilization of implicit parallel structures existing in algorithms. Such structures appear in various kinds of visualization. Image deriving and processing is a field that provides diverse opportunities for utilization of the advantages of distributed computing. The most relevant to the distributed architecture is stratified visualization with its two cases based on data localization and layer separation. Visualization is treated here as a special case of simulation. The conceptual approach to distributed computing developed in this paper have been applied to visualization in a computer support system, which is utilized in radiology and namely, for the noninvasive treatment of brain aneurysms.

Distributed Control System for the Test Interferometer of the ALMA Project

The control system (TICS) for the test interferometer being built to support the development of the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA)will itself be a prototype for the final ALMA array, providing a test for the distributed control system under development. TICS will be based on the ALMA Common Software (ACS) (developed at the European Southern Observatory), which provides CORBA-based services and a device management framework for the control software.
Simple device controllers will run on single board computers, one of which (known as an LCU) is located at each antenna; whereas complex, compound device controllers may run on centrally located computers. In either circumstance, client programs may obtain direct CORBA references to the devices and their properties. Monitor and control requests are sent to devices or properties, which then process and forward the commands to the appropriate hardware devices as required. Timing requirements are met by tagging commands with (future) timestamps synchronized to a timing pulse, which is regulated by a central reference generator, and is distributed to all hardware devices in the array. Monitoring is provided through a publish/subscribe CORBA-based service.

Building Multi-Platform User Interfaces with UIML

There has been a widespread emergence of computing devices in the past few years that go beyond the capabilities of traditional desktop computers. However, users want to use the same kinds of applications and access the same data and information on these appliances that they can access on their desktop computers. The user interfaces for these platforms go beyond the traditional interaction metaphors. It is a challenge to build User Interfaces (UIs) for these devices of differing capabilities that allow the end users to perform the same kinds of tasks. The User Interface Markup Language (UIML) is an XML-based language that allows the canonical description of UIs for different platforms. We describe the language features of UIML that facilitate the development of multi-platform UIs. We also describe the key aspects of our approach that makes UIML succeed where previous approaches failed, namely the division in the representation of a UI, the use of a generic vocabulary, and an integrated development environment specifically designed for transformation-based UI development. Finally we describe the initial details of a multi-step usability engineering process for building multi-platform UI using UIML.

A Multi-Step Process for Generating Multi-Platform User Interfaces using UIML

There has been a widespread emergence of computing devices in the past few years that go beyond the capabilities of traditional desktop computers. These devices have varying input/output characteristics, modalities and interaction mechanisms. However, users want to use the same kinds of applications and access the same data and information on these appliances that they can access on their desktop computers. The user interfaces for these devices and platforms go beyond the traditional interaction metaphors. It is a challenge to build User Interfaces (UIs) for these devices of differing capabilities that allow the end users to perform the same kinds of tasks. The User Interface Markup Language (UIML) is an XML-based language that allows the canonical description of UIs for different platforms. We present a multi-step transformation-based framework for building Multi-Platform User Interfaces using UIML. We describe the language features of UIML that facilitate the development of multi-platform UIs, the multi-step process involved in our framework and the transformations needed to build the UIs.

Next Generation EPICS Interface to Abstract Data

The set of externally visible properties associated with process variables in the Experimental Physics and Industrial Control System (EPICS) is predefined in the EPICS base distribution and is therefore not extensible by plug-compatible applications. We believe that this approach, while practical for early versions of the system with a smaller user base, is now severely limiting expansion of the high-level application tool set for EPICS. To eliminate existing barriers, we propose a new C++ based interface to abstract containerized data. This paper describes the new interface, its application to message passing in distributed systems, its application to direct communication between tightly coupled programs co-resident in an address space, and its paramount position in an emerging role for EPICS - the integration of dissimilar systems.

Upgrade of Spring-8 Beamline Network with Vlan Technology Over Gigabit Ethernet

The beamline network system at SPring-8 consists of three LANs; a BL-LAN for beamline component control, a BL-USER-LAN for beamline experimental users and an OA-LAN for the information services. These LANs are interconnected by a firewall system. Since the network traffic and the number of beamlines have increased, we upgraded the backbone of BL-USER-LAN from Fast Ethernet to Gigabit Ethernet. And then, to establish the independency of a beamline and to raise flexibility of every beamline, we also introduced the IEEE802.1Q Virtual LAN (VLAN) technology into the BL-USER-LAN. We discuss here a future plan to build the firewall system with hardware load balancers.

The ESRF TANGO control system status

TANGO is an object oriented control system toolkit based on CORBA presently under development at the ESRF. IN this paper, the TANGO philosophy is briefly presented. All the existing tools developed around TANGO will also be presented. This include a code genrator, a WEB interface to TANGO objects, an administration tool and an interface to LabView. Finally, an xample of a TANGO device server for OPC device is given.

Large-Scale Corba-Distributed Software Framework for Nif Controls

The Integrated Computer Control System (ICCS) is based on a scalable software framework that is distributed over some 325 computers throughout the NIF facility. The framework provides templates and services at multiple levels of abstraction for the construction of software applications that communicate via CORBA (Common Object Request Broker Architecture). Various forms of object-oriented software design patterns are implemented as templates to be extended by application software. Developers extend the framework base classes to model the numerous physical control points, thereby sharing the functionality defined by the base classes. About 56,000 software objects each individually addressed through CORBA are to be created in the complete ICCS. Most objects have a persistent state that is initialized at system start-up and stored in a database. Additional framework services are provided by centralized server programs that implement events, alerts, reservations, message logging, database/file persistence, name services, and process management. The ICCS software framework approach allows for efficient construction of a software system that supports a large number of distributed control points representing a complex control application.

SNS Timing System

This poster describes the timing system being designed for Spallation Neutron Source being built at Oak Ridge National lab.

Modernising the ESRF control system with GNU/Linux

he ESRF control system is in the process of being modernised. The present contrsystem is based on VME, 10 MHz Ethernet, OS9, Solaris, HP-UX, NFS/RPC, Motif and C. The new control system will be based on compact PCI, 100 MHz Ethernet, Linux, Windows, Solaris, CORBA/IIOP, C++, Java and Python. The main frontend operating system will be GNU/Linux running on Intel/x86 and Motorola/68k. Linux will also be used on handheld devices for mobile control. This poster describes how GNU/Linux is being used to modernise the control system and what problems have been encountered so far

Experiences with advanced CORBA services

The Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) is successfully used in many control systems (CS) for data transfer and device modeling. Communication rates below 1 millisecond, high reliability, scalability, language independence and other features make it very attractive. For common types of applications like error logging, alarm messaging or slow monitoring, one can benefit from standard CORBA services that are implemented by third parties and save tremendous amount of developing time. We have started using few CORBA services on our previous CORBA-based control system for the light source ANKA [1] and use now several CORBA services for the ALMA Common Software (ACS) [2], the core of the control system of the Atacama Large Millimeter Array. Our experiences with the interface repository (IFR), the implementation repository, the naming service, the property service, telecom log service and the notify service from different vendors are presented. Performance and scalability benchmarks have been performed.

Open Source Real Time Operating Systems Overview

Modern control systems applications are often built on top of a real time operating system (RTOS) which provides the necessary hardware abstraction as well as scheduling, networking and other services. Several open source RTOS solutions are publicly available, which is very attractive, both from an economic (no licensing fees) as well as from a technical (control over the source code) point of view. This contribution gives an overview of the RTLinux and RTEMS systems (architecture, development environment, API etc.). Both systems feature most popular CPUs, several APIs (including Posix), networking, portability and optional commercial support. Some performance figures are presented, focusing on interrupt latency and context switching delay.

Data Access - Experiences Implementing an Object Oriented Library on Various Platforms

Data Access will be the next generation data abstraction layer for EPICS. Its implementation in C++ brought up a number of issues that are related to object oriented technology's impact on CPU and memory usage.
What is gained by the new abstract interface? What is the price that has to be paid for these gains? What compromises seem applicable and affordable?
This paper discusses tests that have been made about performance and memory usage as well as the different measures that have been taken to optimize the situation.

User-friendly explanations for constraint programming

In this paper, we introduce a set of tools for providing user-friendly explanations in an explanation-based constraint programming system. The idea is to represent the constraints of a problem as an hierarchy (a tree). Users are then represented as a set of understandable nodes in that tree (a cut). Classical explanations (sets of system constraints) just need to get projected on that representation in order to be understandable by any user. We present here the main interests of this idea.

Arc consistency for soft constraints

The notion of arc consistency plays a central role in constraint satisfaction. It is known that the notion of local consistency can be extended to constraint optimisation problems defined by soft constraint frameworks based on an idempotent cost combination operator. This excludes non idempotent operators such as + which define problems which are very important in practical applications such as Max-CSP, where the aim is to minimize the number of violated constraints. In this paper, we show that using a weak additional axiom satisfied by most existing soft constraints proposals, it is possible to define a notion of soft arc consistency that extends the classical notion of arc consistency and this even in the case of non idempotent cost combination operators. A polynomial time algorithm for enforcing this soft arc consistency exists and its space and time complexities are identical to that of enforcing arc consistency in CSPs when the cost combination operator is strictly monotonic (for example Max-CSP). A directional version of arc consistency is potentially even stronger than the non-directional version, since it allows non local propagation of penalties. We demonstrate the utility of directional arc consistency by showing that it not only solves soft constraint problems on trees, but that it also implies a form of local optimality, which we call arc irreducibility.

An Integrated Development Environment for Declarative Multi-Paradigm Programming

In this paper we present CIDER (Curry Integrated Development EnviRonment), an analysis and programming environment for the declarative multi-paradigm language Curry. CIDER is a graphical environment to support the development of Curry programs by providing integrated tools for the analysis and visualization of programs. CIDER is completely implemented in Curry using libraries for GUI programming (based on Tcl/Tk) and meta-programming. An important aspect of our environment is the possible adaptation of the development environment to other declarative source languages (e.g., Prolog or Haskell) and the extensibility w.r.t. new analysis methods. To support the latter feature, the lazy evaluation strategy of the underlying implementation language Curry becomes quite useful.

Combining Propagation Information and Search Tree Visualization using ILOG OPL Studio

In this paper we give an overview of the current state of the graphical features provided by ILOG OPL Studio for debugging and performance tuning of OPL programs or external ILOG Solver based applications. This paper focuses on combining propagation and search information using the Search Tree view and the Propagation Spy. A new synthetic view is presented: the Christmas Tree, which combines the Search Tree view with statistics on the efficiency of the domain reduction and on the number of the propagation events triggered.

On the Design of a Tool for Supporting the Construction of Logic Programs

Environments for systematic construction of logic programs are needed in the academy as well as in the industry. Such environments should support well defined construction methods and should be able to be extended and interact with other programming tools like debuggers and compilers. We present a variant of the Deville methodology for logic program development, and the design of a tool for supporting the methodology. Our aim is to facilitate the learning of logic programming and to set the basis of more sophisticated tools for program development.

Proceedings of the Eleventh Workshop on Logic Programming Environments (WLPE'01)

The Eleventh Workshop on Logic Programming Environments (WLPE'01) was one in a series of international workshops in the topic area. It was held on December 1, 2001 in Paphos, Cyprus as a post-conference workshop at ICLP 2001. Eight refereed papers were presented at the conference. A majority of the papers involved, in some way, constraint logic programming and tools for software development. Other topics areas addressed include execution visualization, instructional aids (for learning users), software maintenance (including debugging), and provisions for new paradigms.

Prototyping CLP(FD) Tracers: a Trace Model and an Experimental Validation Environment

Developing and maintaining CLP programs requires visualization and explanation tools. However, existing tools are built in an ad hoc way. Therefore porting tools from one platform to another is very difficult. We have shown in previous work that, from a fine-grained execution trace, a number of interesting views about logic program executions could be generated by trace analysis.
In this article, we propose a trace model for constraint solving by narrowing. This trace model is the first one proposed for CLP(FD) and does not pretend to be the ultimate one. We also propose an instrumented meta-interpreter in order to experiment with the model. Furthermore, we show that the proposed trace model contains the necessary information to build known and useful execution views. This work sets the basis for generic execution analysis of CLP(FD) programs.

SNS Standard Power Supply Interface

The SNS has developed a standard power supply interface for the approximately 350 magnet power supplies in the SNS accumulator ring, Linac and transport lines. Power supply manufacturers are providing supplies compatible with the standard interface. The SNS standard consists of a VME based power supply controller module (PSC) and a power supply interface unit (PSI) that mounts on the power supply. Communication between the two is via a pair of multimode fibers. This PSI/PSC system supports one 16-bit analog reference, four 16-bit analog readbacks, fifteen digital commands and sixteen digital status bits in a single fiber-isolated module. The system can send commands to the supplies and read data from them synchronized to an external signal at up to a 10KHz rate. The PSC time stamps and stores this data in a circular buffer so historical data leading up to a fault event can be analyzed. The PSC contains a serial port so that local testing of hardware can be accomplished with a laptop. This paper concentrates on the software being provided to control the power supply. It includes the EPICS driver; software to test hardware and power supplies via the serial port and VME interface.

The Overview of the National Ignition Facility Distributed Computer Control System

The Integrated Computer Control System (ICCS) for the National Ignition Facility (NIF) is a layered architecture of 300 front-end processors (FEP) coordinated by supervisor subsystems including automatic beam alignment and wavefront control, laser and target diagnostics, pulse power, and shot control timed to 30 ps. FEP computers incorporate either VxWorks on PowerPC or Solaris on UltraSPARC processors that interface to over 45,000 control points attached to VME-bus or PCI-bus crates respectively. Typical devices are stepping motors, transient digitizers, calorimeters, and photodiodes. The front-end layer is divided into another segment comprised of an additional 14,000 control points for industrial controls including vacuum, argon, synthetic air, and safety interlocks implemented with Allen-Bradley programmable logic controllers (PLCs). The computer network is augmented asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) that delivers video streams from 500 sensor cameras monitoring the 192 laser beams to operator workstations. Software is based on an object-oriented framework using CORBA distribution that incorporates services for archiving, machine configuration, graphical user interface, monitoring, event logging, scripting, alert management, and access control. Software coding using a mixed language environment of Ada95 and Java is one-third complete at over 300 thousand source lines. Control system installation is currently under way for the first 8 beams, with project completion scheduled for 2008.

HyperPro An integrated documentation environment for CLP

The purpose of this paper is to present some functionalities of the HyperPro System. HyperPro is a hypertext tool which allows to develop Constraint Logic Programming (CLP) together with their documentation. The text editing part is not new and is based on the free software Thot. A HyperPro program is a Thot document written in a report style. The tool is designed for CLP but it can be adapted to other programming paradigms as well. Thot offers navigation and editing facilities and synchronized static document views. HyperPro has new functionalities such as document exportations, dynamic views (projections), indexes and version management. Projection is a mechanism for extracting and exporting relevant pieces of code program or of document according to specific criteria. Indexes are useful to find the references and occurrences of a relation in a document, i.e., where its predicate definition is found and where a relation is used in other programs or document versions and, to translate hyper-texts links into paper references. It still lack importation facilities.

Virtual Laboratory: Enabling On-Demand Drug Design with the World Wide Grid

Computational Grids are emerging as a popular paradigm for solving large-scale compute and data intensive problems in science, engineering, and commerce. However, application composition, resource management and scheduling in these environments is a complex undertaking. In this paper, we illustrate the creation of a virtual laboratory environment by leveraging existing Grid technologies to enable molecular modeling for drug design on distributed resources. It involves screening millions of molecules of chemical compounds against a protein target, chemical database (CDB) to identify those with potential use for drug design. We have grid-enabled the molecular docking process by composing it as a parameter sweep application using the Nimrod-G tools. We then developed new tools for remote access to molecules in CDB small molecule database. The Nimrod-G resource broker along with molecule CDB data broker is used for scheduling and on-demand processing of jobs on distributed grid resources. The results demonstrate the ease of use and suitability of the Nimrod-G and virtual laboratory tools.

A Computational Economy for Grid Computing and its Implementation in the Nimrod-G Resource Brok

Computational Grids, coupling geographically distributed resources such as PCs, workstations, clusters, and scientific instruments, have emerged as a next generation computing platform for solving large-scale problems in science, engineering, and commerce. However, application development, resource management, and scheduling in these environments continue to be a complex undertaking. In this article, we discuss our efforts in developing a resource management system for scheduling computations on resources distributed across the world with varying quality of service. Our service-oriented grid computing system called Nimrod-G manages all operations associated with remote execution including resource discovery, trading, scheduling based on economic principles and a user defined quality of service requirement. The Nimrod-G resource broker is implemented by leveraging existing technologies such as Globus, and provides new services that are essential for constructing industrial-strength Grids. We discuss results of preliminary experiments on scheduling some parametric computations using the Nimrod-G resource broker on a world-wide grid testbed that spans five continents.

An Environment for the Exploration of Non Monotonic Logic Programs

Stable Model Semantics and Well Founded Semantics have been shown to be very useful in several applications of non-monotonic reasoning. However, Stable Models presents a high computational complexity, whereas Well Founded Semantics is easy to compute and provides an approximation of Stable Models. Efficient engines exist for both semantics of logic programs. This work presents a computational integration of two of such systems, namely XSB and SMODELS. The resulting system is called XNMR, and provides an interactive system for the exploration of both semantics. Aspects such as modularity can be exploited in order to ease debugging of large knowledge bases with the usual Prolog debugging techniques and an interactive environment. Besides, the use of a full Prolog system as a front-end to a Stable Models engine augments the language usually accepted by such systems.

Predicting RNA Secondary Structures with Arbitrary Pseudoknots by Maximizing the Number of Stacking Pairs

The paper investigates the computational problem of predicting RNA secondary structures. The general belief is that allowing pseudoknots makes the problem hard. Existing polynomial-time algorithms are heuristic algorithms with no performance guarantee and can only handle limited types of pseudoknots. In this paper we initiate the study of predicting RNA secondary structures with a maximum number of stacking pairs while allowing arbitrary pseudoknots. We obtain two approximation algorithms with worst-case approximation ratios of 1/2 and 1/3 for planar and general secondary structures,respectively. For an RNA sequence of $n$ bases, the approximation algorithm for planar secondary structures runs in $O(n^3)$ time while that for the general case runs in linear time. Furthermore, we prove that allowing pseudoknots makes it NP-hard to maximize the number of stacking pairs in a planar secondary structure. This result is in contrast with the recent NP-hard results on psuedoknots which are based on optimizing some general and complicated energy functions.

A comparison of Zeroes and Ones of a Boolean Polynomial

In this paper we consider the computational complexity of the following problem. Let $f$ be a Boolean polynomial. What value of $f$, 0 or 1, is taken more frequently? The problem is solved in polynomial time for polynomials of degrees 1,2. The next case of degree 3 appears to be PP-complete under polynomial reductions in the class of promise problems. The proof is based on techniques of quantum computation.

Overview of the NSTX Control System

The National Spherical Torus Experiment (NSTX) is an innovative magnetic fusion device that was constructed by the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL) in collaboration with the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Columbia University, and the University of Washington at Seattle. Since achieving first plasma in 1999, the device has been used for fusion research through an international collaboration of over twenty institutions. The NSTX is operated through a collection of control systems that encompass a wide range of technology, from hardwired relay controls to real-time control systems with giga-FLOPS of capability. This paper presents a broad introduction to the control systems used on NSTX, with an emphasis on the computing controls, data acquisition, and synchronization systems.

Some Facets of Complexity Theory and Cryptography: A Five-Lectures Tutorial

In this tutorial, selected topics of cryptology and of computational complexity theory are presented. We give a brief overview of the history and the foundations of classical cryptography, and then move on to modern public-key cryptography. Particular attention is paid to cryptographic protocols and the problem of constructing the key components of such protocols such as one-way functions. A function is one-way if it is easy to compute, but hard to invert. We discuss the notion of one-way functions both in a cryptographic and in a complexity-theoretic setting. We also consider interactive proof systems and present some interesting zero-knowledge protocols. In a zero-knowledge protocol one party can convince the other party of knowing some secret information without disclosing any bit of this information. Motivated by these protocols, we survey some complexity-theoretic results on interactive proof systems and related complexity classes.

Towards a characterization of the star-free sets of integers

Let U be a numeration system, a set X of integers is U-star-free if the set made up of the U-representations of the elements in X is a star-free regular language. Answering a question of A. de Luca and A. Restivo, we obtain a complete logical characterization of the U-star-free sets of integers for suitable numeration systems related to a Pisot number and in particular for integer base systems. For these latter systems, we study as well the problem of the base dependence. Finally, the case of k-adic systems is also investigated.

Bayesian Logic Programs

Bayesian networks provide an elegant formalism for representing and reasoning about uncertainty using probability theory. Theyare a probabilistic extension of propositional logic and, hence, inherit some of the limitations of propositional logic, such as the difficulties to represent objects and relations. We introduce a generalization of Bayesian networks, called Bayesian logic programs, to overcome these limitations. In order to represent objects and relations it combines Bayesian networks with definite clause logic by establishing a one-to-one mapping between ground atoms and random variables. We show that Bayesian logic programs combine the advantages of both definite clause logic and Bayesian networks. This includes the separation of quantitative and qualitative aspects of the model. Furthermore, Bayesian logic programs generalize both Bayesian networks as well as logic programs. So, many ideas developed

Gradient-based Reinforcement Planning in Policy-Search Methods

We introduce a learning method called ``gradient-based reinforcement planning'' (GREP). Unlike traditional DP methods that improve their policy backwards in time, GREP is a gradient-based method that plans ahead and improves its policy before it actually acts in the environment. We derive formulas for the exact policy gradient that maximizes the expected future reward and confirm our ideas with numerical experiments.

One-way communication complexity and the Neciporuk lower bound on formula size

In this paper the Neciporuk method for proving lower bounds on the size of Boolean formulae is reformulated in terms of one-way communication complexity. We investigate the scenarios of probabilistic formulae, nondeterministic formulae, and quantum formulae. In all cases we can use results about one-way communication complexity to prove lower bounds on formula size. In the latter two cases we newly develop the employed communication complexity bounds. The main results regarding formula size are as follows: A polynomial size gap between probabilistic/quantum and deterministic formulae. A near-quadratic size gap for nondeterministic formulae with limited access to nondeterministic bits. A near quadratic lower bound on quantum formula size, as well as a polynomial separation between the sizes of quantum formulae with and without multiple read random inputs. The methods for quantum and probabilistic formulae employ a variant of the Neciporuk bound in terms of the VC-dimension. Regarding communication complexity we give optimal separations between one-way and two-way protocols in the cases of limited nondeterministic and quantum communication, and we show that zero-error quantum one-way communication complexity asymptotically equals deterministic one-way communication complexity for total functions.

A procedure for unsupervised lexicon learning

We describe an incremental unsupervised procedure to learn words from transcribed continuous speech. The algorithm is based on a conservative and traditional statistical model, and results of empirical tests show that it is competitive with other algorithms that have been proposed recently for this task.

A Statistical Model for Word Discovery in Transcribed Speech

A statistical model for segmentation and word discovery in continuous speech is presented. An incremental unsupervised learning algorithm to infer word boundaries based on this model is described. Results of empirical tests showing that the algorithm is competitive with other models that have been used for similar tasks are also presented.

Program schemes with binary write-once arrays and the complexity classes they capture

We study a class of program schemes, NPSB, in which, aside from basic assignments, non-deterministic guessing and while loops, we have access to arrays; but where these arrays are binary write-once in that they are initialized to `zero' and can only ever be set to `one'. We show, amongst other results, that: NPSB can be realized as a vectorized Lindstrom logic; there are problems accepted by program schemes of NPSB that are not definable in the bounded-variable infinitary logic ${\cal L}^ω_{\inftyω}$; all problems accepted by the program schemes of NPSB have a zero-one law; and on ordered structures, NPSB captures the complexity class $[ L]^[{\scriptsize NP\normalsize}]$. The class of program schemes NPSB is actually the union of an infinite hierarchy of classes of program schemes. When we amend the semantics of our program schemes slightly, we find that the classes of the resulting hierarchy capture the complexity classes $Σ^p_i$ (where $i\geq 1$) of the Polynomial Hierarchy PH. Finally, we give logical equivalences of the complexity-theoretic question `Does NP equal PSPACE?' where the logics (and classes of program schemes) involved define only problems with zero-one laws (and so do not define some computationally trivial problems).

Using a Support-Vector Machine for Japanese-to-English Translation of Tense, Aspect, and Modality

This paper describes experiments carried out using a variety of machine-learning methods, including the k-nearest neighborhood method that was used in a previous study, for the translation of tense, aspect, and modality. It was found that the support-vector machine method was the most precise of all the methods tested.

Part of Speech Tagging in Thai Language Using Support Vector Machine

The elastic-input neuro tagger and hybrid tagger, combined with a neural network and Brill's error-driven learning, have already been proposed for the purpose of constructing a practical tagger using as little training data as possible. When a small Thai corpus is used for training, these taggers have tagging accuracies of 94.4% and 95.5% (accounting only for the ambiguous words in terms of the part of speech), respectively. In this study, in order to construct more accurate taggers we developed new tagging methods using three machine learning methods: the decision-list, maximum entropy, and support vector machine methods. We then performed tagging experiments by using these methods. Our results showed that the support vector machine method has the best precision (96.1%), and that it is capable of improving the accuracy of tagging in the Thai language. Finally, we theoretically examined all these methods and discussed how the improvements were achived.

Universal Model for Paraphrasing -- Using Transformation Based on a Defined Criteria --

This paper describes a universal model for paraphrasing that transforms according to defined criteria. We showed that by using different criteria we could construct different kinds of paraphrasing systems including one for answering questions, one for compressing sentences, one for polishing up, and one for transforming written language to spoken language.

A Tight Upper Bound on the Number of Candidate Patterns

In the context of mining for frequent patterns using the standard levelwise algorithm, the following question arises: given the current level and the current set of frequent patterns, what is the maximal number of candidate patterns that can be generated on the next level? We answer this question by providing a tight upper bound, derived from a combinatorial result from the sixties by Kruskal and Katona. Our result is useful to reduce the number of database scans.

DNA Self-Assembly For Constructing 3D Boxes

We propose a mathematical model of DNA self-assembly using 2D tiles to form 3D nanostructures. This is the first work to combine studies in self-assembly and nanotechnology in 3D, just as Rothemund and Winfree did in the 2D case. Our model is a more precise superset of their Tile Assembly Model that facilitates building scalable 3D molecules. Under our model, we present algorithms to build a hollow cube, which is intuitively one of the simplest 3D structures to construct. We also introduce five basic measures of complexity to analyze these algorithms. Our model and algorithmic techniques are applicable to more complex 2D and 3D nanostructures.

A Straightforward Approach to Morphological Analysis and Synthesis

In this paper we present a lexicon-based approach to the problem of morphological processing. Full-form words, lemmas and grammatical tags are interconnected in a DAWG. Thus, the process of analysis/synthesis is reduced to a search in the graph, which is very fast and can be performed even if several pieces of information are missing from the input. The contents of the DAWG are updated using an on-line incremental process. The proposed approach is language independent and it does not utilize any morphophonetic rules or any other special linguistic information.

Interactive Constrained Association Rule Mining

We investigate ways to support interactive mining sessions, in the setting of association rule mining. In such sessions, users specify conditions (queries) on the associations to be generated. Our approach is a combination of the integration of querying conditions inside the mining phase, and the incremental querying of already generated associations. We present several concrete algorithms and compare their performance.

Computing the average parallelism in trace monoids

The {\em height} of a trace is the height of the corresponding heap of pieces in Viennot's representation, or equivalently the number of factors in its Cartier-Foata decomposition. Let $h(t)$ and $|t|$ stand respectively for the height and the length of a trace $t$. Roughly speaking, $|t|$ is the `sequential' execution time and $h(t)$ is the `parallel' execution time. We prove that the bivariate commutative series $\sum_t x^{h(t)}y^{|t|}$ is rational, and we give a finite representation of it. We use the rationality to obtain precise information on the asymptotics of the number of traces of a given height or length. Then, we study the average height of a trace for various probability distributions on traces. For the uniform probability distribution on traces of the same length (resp. of the same height), the asymptotic average height (resp. length) exists and is an algebraic number. To illustrate our results and methods, we consider a couple of examples: the free commutative monoid and the trace monoid whose independence graph is the ladder graph.

A Data Mining Framework for Optimal Product Selection in Retail Supermarket Data: The Generalized PROFSET Model

In recent years, data mining researchers have developed efficient association rule algorithms for retail market basket analysis. Still, retailers often complain about how to adopt association rules to optimize concrete retail marketing-mix decisions. It is in this context that, in a previous paper, the authors have introduced a product selection model called PROFSET. This model selects the most interesting products from a product assortment based on their cross-selling potential given some retailer defined constraints. However this model suffered from an important deficiency: it could not deal effectively with supermarket data, and no provisions were taken to include retail category management principles. Therefore, in this paper, the authors present an important generalization of the existing model in order to make it suitable for supermarket data as well, and to enable retailers to add category restrictions to the model. Experiments on real world data obtained from a Belgian supermarket chain produce very promising results and demonstrate the effectiveness of the generalized PROFSET model.

Rational Competitive Analysis

Much work in computer science has adopted competitive analysis as a tool for decision making under uncertainty. In this work we extend competitive analysis to the context of multi-agent systems. Unlike classical competitive analysis where the behavior of an agent's environment is taken to be arbitrary, we consider the case where an agent's environment consists of other agents. These agents will usually obey some (minimal) rationality constraints. This leads to the definition of rational competitive analysis. We introduce the concept of rational competitive analysis, and initiate the study of competitive analysis for multi-agent systems. We also discuss the application of rational competitive analysis to the context of bidding games, as well as to the classical one-way trading problem.

Pseudorandom permutations with the fast forward property

This paper has been withdrawn by the author(s), due to the existence of a much better paper in http://arxiv.org/abs/cs.CR/0207027

Using Structural Metadata to Localize Experience of Digital Content

With the increasing technical sophistication of both information consumers and providers, there is increasing demand for more meaningful experiences of digital information. We present a framework that separates digital object experience, or rendering, from digital object storage and manipulation, so the rendering can be tailored to particular communities of users. Our framework also accommodates extensible digital object behaviors and interoperability. The two key components of our approach are 1) exposing structural metadata associated with digital objects -- metadata about the labeled access points within a digital object and 2) information intermediaries called context brokers that match structural characteristics of digital objects with mechanisms that produce behaviors. These context brokers allow for localized rendering of digital information stored externally.

Concurrent computing machines and physical space-time

Concrete computing machines, either sequential or concurrent, rely on an intimate relation between computation and time. We recall the general characteristic properties of physical time and of present realizations of computing systems. We emphasize the role of computing interferences, i.e. the necessity to avoid them in order to give a causal implementation to logical operations. We compare synchronous and asynchronous systems, and make a brief survey of some methods used to deal with computing interferences. Using a graphic representation, we show that synchronous and asynchronous circuits reflect the same opposition as the Newtonian and relativistic causal structures for physical space-time.

Faster Algorithm of String Comparison

In many applications, it is necessary to determine the string similarity. Edit distance[WF74] approach is a classic method to determine Field Similarity. A well known dynamic programming algorithm [GUS97] is used to calculate edit distance with the time complexity O(nm). (for worst case, average case and even best case) Instead of continuing with improving the edit distance approach, [LL+99] adopted a brand new approach-token-based approach. Its new concept of token-base-retain the original semantic information, good time complex-O(nm) (for worst, average and best case) and good experimental performance make it a milestone paper in this area. Further study indicates that there is still room for improvement of its Field Similarity algorithm. Our paper is to introduce a package of substring-based new algorithms to determine Field Similarity. Combined together, our new algorithms not only achieve higher accuracy but also gain the time complexity O(knm) (k<0.75) for worst case, O(*n) where <6 for average case and O(1) for best case. Throughout the paper, we use the approach of comparative examples to show higher accuracy of our algorithms compared to the one proposed in [LL+99]. Theoretical analysis, concrete examples and experimental result show that our algorithms can significantly improve the accuracy and time complexity of the calculation of Field Similarity. [US97] D. Guseld. Algorithms on Strings, Trees and Sequences, in Computer Science and Computational Biology. [LL+99] Mong Li Lee, Cleansing data for mining and warehousing, In Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Database and Expert Systems Applications (DEXA99), pages 751-760,August 1999. [WF74] R. Wagner and M. Fisher, The String to String Correction Problem, JACM 21 pages 168-173, 1974.

Lower Bound on the Chromatic Number by Spectra of Weighted Adjacency Matrices

A lower bound on the chromatic number of a graph is derived by majorization of spectra of weighted adjacency matrices. These matrices are given by Hadamard products of the adjacency matrix and arbitrary Hermitian matrices.

Media Objects in Time - A Multimedia Streaming System

The widespread availability of networked multimedia potentials embedded in an infrastructure of qualitative superior kind gives rise to new approaches in the areas of teleteaching and internet presentation: The distribution of professionally styled multimedia streams has fallen in the realm of possibility. This paper presents a prototype - both model and runtime environment - of a time directed media system treating any kind of presentational contribution as reusable media object components. The plug-in free runtime system is based on a database and allows for a flexible support of static media types as well as for easy extensions by streaming media servers. The prototypic implementation includes a preliminary Web Authoring platform.

Lower Bounds for Matrix Product

We prove lower bounds on the number of product gates in bilinear and quadratic circuits that compute the product of two $n \cross n$ matrices over finite fields. In particular we obtain the following results:
1. We show that the number of product gates in any bilinear (or quadratic) circuit that computes the product of two $n \cross n$ matrices over $F_2$ is at least $3 n^2 - o(n^2)$.
2. We show that the number of product gates in any bilinear circuit that computes the product of two $n \cross n$ matrices over $F_p$ is at least $(2.5 + \frac{1.5}{p^3 -1})n^2 -o(n^2)$.
These results improve the former results of Bshouty '89 and Blaser '99 who proved lower bounds of $2.5 n^2 - o(n^2)$.

Incremental Construction of Compact Acyclic NFAs

This paper presents and analyzes an incremental algorithm for the construction of Acyclic Non-deterministic Finite-state Automata (NFA). Automata of this type are quite useful in computational linguistics, especially for storing lexicons. The proposed algorithm produces compact NFAs, i.e. NFAs that do not contain equivalent states. Unlike Deterministic Finite-state Automata (DFA), this property is not sufficient to ensure minimality, but still the resulting NFAs are considerably smaller than the minimal DFAs for the same languages.

Trust enhancement by multiple random beacons

Random beacons-information sources that broadcast a stream of random digits unknown by anyone beforehand-are useful for various cryptographic purposes. But such beacons can be easily and undetectably sabotaged, so that their output is known beforehand by a dishonest party, who can use this information to defeat the cryptographic protocols supposedly protected by the beacon. We explore a strategy to reduce this hazard by combining the outputs from several noninteracting (eg spacelike-separated) beacons by XORing them together to produce a single digit stream which is more trustworthy than any individual beacon, being random and unpredictable if at least one of the contributing beacons is honest. If the contributing beacons are not spacelike separated, so that a dishonest beacon can overhear and adapt to earlier outputs of other beacons, the beacons' trustworthiness can still be enhanced to a lesser extent by a time sharing strategy. We point out some disadvantages of alternative trust amplification methods based on one-way hash functions.

Analysis of Non-Gaussian Nature of Network Traffic

To study mechanisms that cause the non-Gaussian nature of network traffic, we analyzed IP flow statistics. For greedy flows in particular, we investigated the hop counts between source and destination nodes, and classified applications by the port number. We found that the main flows contributing to the non-Gaussian nature of network traffic were HTTP flows with relatively small hop counts compared with the average hop counts of all flows.

On the Importance of Having an Identity or, is Consensus really Universal?

We show that Naming-- the existence of distinct IDs known to all-- is a hidden but necessary assumption of Herlihy's universality result for Consensus. We then show in a very precise sense that Naming is harder than Consensus and bring to the surface some important differences existing between popular shared memory models.

Using Tree Automata and Regular Expressions to Manipulate Hierarchically Structured Data

Information, stored or transmitted in digital form, is often structured. Individual data records are usually represented as hierarchies of their elements. Together, records form larger structures. Information processing applications have to take account of this structuring, which assigns different semantics to different data elements or records. Big variety of structural schemata in use today often requires much flexibility from applications--for example, to process information coming from different sources. To ensure application interoperability, translators are needed that can convert one structure into another. This paper puts forward a formal data model aimed at supporting hierarchical data processing in a simple and flexible way. The model is based on and extends results of two classical theories, studying finite string and tree automata. The concept of finite automata and regular languages is applied to the case of arbitrarily structured tree-like hierarchical data records, represented as "structured strings." These automata are compared with classical string and tree automata; the model is shown to be a superset of the classical models. Regular grammars and expressions over structured strings are introduced. Regular expression matching and substitution has been widely used for efficient unstructured text processing; the model described here brings the power of this proven technique to applications that deal with information trees. A simple generic alternative is offered to replace today's specialised ad-hoc approaches. The model unifies structural and content transformations, providing applications with a single data type. An example scenario of how to build applications based on this theory is discussed. Further research directions are outlined.

The performance of the batch learner algorithm

We analyze completely the convergence speed of the \emph{batch learning algorithm}, and compare its speed to that of the memoryless learning algorithm and of learning with memory. We show that the batch learning algorithm is never worse than the memoryless learning algorithm (at least asymptotically). Its performance \emph{vis-a-vis} learning with full memory is less clearcut, and depends on certain probabilistic assumptions.

Bundling Equilibrium in Combinatorial auctions

This paper analyzes individually-rational ex post equilibrium in the VC (Vickrey-Clarke) combinatorial auctions. If $Σ$ is a family of bundles of goods, the organizer may restrict the participants by requiring them to submit their bids only for bundles in $Σ$. The $Σ$-VC combinatorial auctions (multi-good auctions) obtained in this way are known to be individually-rational truth-telling mechanisms. In contrast, this paper deals with non-restricted VC auctions, in which the buyers restrict themselves to bids on bundles in $Σ$, because it is rational for them to do so. That is, it may be that when the buyers report their valuation of the bundles in $Σ$, they are in an equilibrium. We fully characterize those $Σ$ that induce individually rational equilibrium in every VC auction, and we refer to the associated equilibrium as a bundling equilibrium. The number of bundles in $Σ$ represents the communication complexity of the equilibrium. A special case of bundling equilibrium is partition-based equilibrium, in which $Σ$ is a field, that is, it is generated by a partition. We analyze the tradeoff between communication complexity and economic efficiency of bundling equilibrium, focusing in particular on partition-based equilibrium.

A Backward Analysis for Constraint Logic Programs

One recurring problem in program development is that of understanding how to re-use code developed by a third party. In the context of (constraint) logic programming, part of this problem reduces to figuring out how to query a program. If the logic program does not come with any documentation, then the programmer is forced to either experiment with queries in an ad hoc fashion or trace the control-flow of the program (backward) to infer the modes in which a predicate must be called so as to avoid an instantiation error. This paper presents an abstract interpretation scheme that automates the latter technique. The analysis presented in this paper can infer moding properties which if satisfied by the initial query, come with the guarantee that the program and query can never generate any moding or instantiation errors. Other applications of the analysis are discussed. The paper explains how abstract domains with certain computational properties (they condense) can be used to trace control-flow backward (right-to-left) to infer useful properties of initial queries. A correctness argument is presented and an implementation is reported.

Efficient Groundness Analysis in Prolog

Boolean functions can be used to express the groundness of, and trace grounding dependencies between, program variables in (constraint) logic programs. In this paper, a variety of issues pertaining to the efficient Prolog implementation of groundness analysis are investigated, focusing on the domain of definite Boolean functions, Def. The systematic design of the representation of an abstract domain is discussed in relation to its impact on the algorithmic complexity of the domain operations; the most frequently called operations should be the most lightweight. This methodology is applied to Def, resulting in a new representation, together with new algorithms for its domain operations utilising previously unexploited properties of Def -- for instance, quadratic-time entailment checking. The iteration strategy driving the analysis is also discussed and a simple, but very effective, optimisation of induced magic is described. The analysis can be implemented straightforwardly in Prolog and the use of a non-ground representation results in an efficient, scalable tool which does not require widening to be invoked, even on the largest benchmarks. An extensive experimental evaluation is given

The Dynamics of AdaBoost Weights Tells You What's Hard to Classify

The dynamical evolution of weights in the Adaboost algorithm contains useful information about the role that the associated data points play in the built of the Adaboost model. In particular, the dynamics induces a bipartition of the data set into two (easy/hard) classes. Easy points are ininfluential in the making of the model, while the varying relevance of hard points can be gauged in terms of an entropy value associated to their evolution. Smooth approximations of entropy highlight regions where classification is most uncertain. Promising results are obtained when methods proposed are applied in the Optimal Sampling framework.

A computer scientist looks at game theory

I consider issues in distributed computation that should be of relevance to game theory. In particular, I focus on (a) representing knowledge and uncertainty, (b) dealing with failures, and (c) specification of mechanisms.

Long Proteins with Unique Optimal Foldings in the H-P Model

It is widely accepted that (1) the natural or folded state of proteins is a global energy minimum, and (2) in most cases proteins fold to a unique state determined by their amino acid sequence. The H-P (hydrophobic-hydrophilic) model is a simple combinatorial model designed to answer qualitative questions about the protein folding process. In this paper we consider a problem suggested by Brian Hayes in 1998: what proteins in the two-dimensional H-P model have unique optimal (minimum energy) foldings? In particular, we prove that there are closed chains of monomers (amino acids) with this property for all (even) lengths; and that there are open monomer chains with this property for all lengths divisible by four.

Structure from Motion: Theoretical Foundations of a Novel Approach Using Custom Built Invariants

We rephrase the problem of 3D reconstruction from images in terms of intersections of projections of orbits of custom built Lie groups actions. We then use an algorithmic method based on moving frames "a la Fels-Olver" to obtain a fundamental set of invariants of these groups actions. The invariants are used to define a set of equations to be solved by the points of the 3D object, providing a new technique for recovering 3D structure from motion.

A Modal Logic Framework for Multi-agent Belief Fusion

This paper is aimed at providing a uniform framework for reasoning about beliefs of multiple agents and their fusion. In the first part of the paper, we develop logics for reasoning about cautiously merged beliefs of agents with different degrees of reliability. The logics are obtained by combining the multi-agent epistemic logic and multi-sources reasoning systems. Every ordering for the reliability of the agents is represented by a modal operator, so we can reason with the merged results under different situations. The fusion is cautious in the sense that if an agent's belief is in conflict with those of higher priorities, then his belief is completely discarded from the merged result. We consider two strategies for the cautious merging of beliefs. In the first one, if inconsistency occurs at some level, then all beliefs at the lower levels are discarded simultaneously, so it is called level cutting strategy. For the second one, only the level at which the inconsistency occurs is skipped, so it is called level skipping strategy. The formal semantics and axiomatic systems for these two strategies are presented. In the second part, we extend the logics both syntactically and semantically to cover some more sophisticated belief fusion and revision operators. While most existing approaches treat belief fusion operators as meta-level constructs, these operators are directly incorporated into our object logic language. Thus it is possible to reason not only with the merged results but also about the fusion process in our logics. The relationship of our extended logics with the conditional logics of belief revision is also discussed.

Learning to Play Games in Extensive Form by Valuation

A valuation for a player in a game in extensive form is an assignment of numeric values to the players moves. The valuation reflects the desirability moves. We assume a myopic player, who chooses a move with the highest valuation. Valuations can also be revised, and hopefully improved, after each play of the game. Here, a very simple valuation revision is considered, in which the moves made in a play are assigned the payoff obtained in the play. We show that by adopting such a learning process a player who has a winning strategy in a win-lose game can almost surely guarantee a win in a repeated game. When a player has more than two payoffs, a more elaborate learning procedure is required. We consider one that associates with each move the average payoff in the rounds in which this move was made. When all players adopt this learning procedure, with some perturbations, then, with probability 1, strategies that are close to subgame perfect equilibrium are played after some time. A single player who adopts this procedure can guarantee only her individually rational payoff.

A theory of experiment

This article aims at clarifying the language and practice of scientific experiment, mainly by hooking observability on calculability.

Model-Based Software Engineering and Ada: Synergy for the Development of Safety-Critical Systems

In this paper we outline a software development process for safety-critical systems that aims at combining some of the specific strengths of model-based development with those of programming language based development using safety-critical subsets of Ada. Model-based software development and model-based test case generation techniques are combined with code generation techniques and tools providing a transition from model to code both for a system itself and for its test cases. This allows developers to combine domain-oriented, model-based techniques with source code based validation techniques, as required for conformity with standards for the development of safety-critical software, such as the avionics standard RTCA/DO-178B. We introduce the AutoFocus and Validator modeling and validation toolset and sketch its usage for modeling, test case generation, and code generation in a combined approach, which is further illustrated by a simplified leading edge aerospace model with built-in fault tolerance.

Core Services in the Architecture of the National Digital Library for Science Education (NSDL)

We describe the core components of the architecture for the (NSDL) National Science, Mathematics, Engineering, and Technology Education Digital Library. Over time the NSDL will include heterogeneous users, content, and services. To accommodate this, a design for a technical and organization infrastructure has been formulated based on the notion of a spectrum of interoperability. This paper describes the first phase of the interoperability infrastructure including the metadata repository, search and discovery services, rights management services, and user interface portal facilities.

Components of an NSDL Architecture: Technical Scope and Functional Model

We describe work leading toward specification of a technical architecture for the National Science, Mathematics, Engineering, and Technology Education Digital Library (NSDL). This includes a technical scope and a functional model, with some elaboration on the particularly rich set of library services that NSDL is expected eventually to encompass.

Software Validation using Power Profiles

The validation of modern software systems incorporates both functional and quality requirements. This paper proposes a validation approach for software quality requirement - its power consumption. This approach validates whether the software produces the desired results with a minimum expenditure of energy. We present energy requirements and an approach for their validation using a power consumption model, test-case specification, software traces, and power measurements. Three different approaches for power data gathering are described. The power consumption of mobile phone applications is obtained and matched against the power consumption model.

The Witness Properties and the Semantics of the Prolog Cut

The semantics of the Prolog ``cut'' construct is explored in the context of some desirable properties of logic programming systems, referred to as the witness properties. The witness properties concern the operational consistency of responses to queries. A generalization of Prolog with negation as failure and cut is described, and shown not to have the witness properties. A restriction of the system is then described, which preserves the choice and first-solution behaviour of cut but allows the system to have the witness properties.
The notion of cut in the restricted system is more restricted than the Prolog hard cut, but retains the useful first-solution behaviour of hard cut, not retained by other proposed cuts such as the ``soft cut''. It is argued that the restricted system achieves a good compromise between the power and utility of the Prolog cut and the need for internal consistency in logic programming systems. The restricted system is given an abstract semantics, which depends on the witness properties; this semantics suggests that the restricted system has a deeper connection to logic than simply permitting some computations which are logical.
Parts of this paper appeared previously in a different form in the Proceedings of the 1995 International Logic Programming Symposium.

The Deductive Database System LDL++

This paper describes the LDL++ system and the research advances that have enabled its design and development. We begin by discussing the new nonmonotonic and nondeterministic constructs that extend the functionality of the LDL++ language, while preserving its model-theoretic and fixpoint semantics. Then, we describe the execution model and the open architecture designed to support these new constructs and to facilitate the integration with existing DBMSs and applications. Finally, we describe the lessons learned by using LDL++ on various tested applications, such as middleware and datamining.

A Refinement Calculus for Logic Programs

Existing refinement calculi provide frameworks for the stepwise development of imperative programs from specifications. This paper presents a refinement calculus for deriving logic programs. The calculus contains a wide-spectrum logic programming language, including executable constructs such as sequential conjunction, disjunction, and existential quantification, as well as specification constructs such as general predicates, assumptions and universal quantification. A declarative semantics is defined for this wide-spectrum language based on executions. Executions are partial functions from states to states, where a state is represented as a set of bindings. The semantics is used to define the meaning of programs and specifications, including parameters and recursion. To complete the calculus, a notion of correctness-preserving refinement over programs in the wide-spectrum language is defined and refinement laws for developing programs are introduced. The refinement calculus is illustrated using example derivations and prototype tool support is discussed.

Secure History Preservation Through Timeline Entanglement

A secure timeline is a tamper-evident historic record of the states through which a system goes throughout its operational history. Secure timelines can help us reason about the temporal ordering of system states in a provable manner. We extend secure timelines to encompass multiple, mutually distrustful services, using timeline entanglement. Timeline entanglement associates disparate timelines maintained at independent systems, by linking undeniably the past of one timeline to the future of another. Timeline entanglement is a sound method to map a time step in the history of one service onto the timeline of another, and helps clients of entangled services to get persistent temporal proofs for services rendered that survive the demise or non-cooperation of the originating service. In this paper we present the design and implementation of Timeweave, our service development framework for timeline entanglement based on two novel disk-based authenticated data structures. We evaluate Timeweave's performance characteristics and show that it can be efficiently deployed in a loosely-coupled distributed system of a few hundred services with overhead of roughly 2-8% of the processing resources of a PC-grade system.

Steady State Resource Allocation Analysis of the Stochastic Diffusion Search

This article presents the long-term behaviour analysis of Stochastic Diffusion Search (SDS), a distributed agent-based system for best-fit pattern matching. SDS operates by allocating simple agents into different regions of the search space. Agents independently pose hypotheses about the presence of the pattern in the search space and its potential distortion. Assuming a compositional structure of hypotheses about pattern matching agents perform an inference on the basis of partial evidence from the hypothesised solution. Agents posing mutually consistent hypotheses about the pattern support each other and inhibit agents with inconsistent hypotheses. This results in the emergence of a stable agent population identifying the desired solution. Positive feedback via diffusion of information between the agents significantly contributes to the speed with which the solution population is formed. The formulation of the SDS model in terms of interacting Markov Chains enables its characterisation in terms of the allocation of agents, or computational resources. The analysis characterises the stationary probability distribution of the activity of agents, which leads to the characterisation of the solution population in terms of its similarity to the target pattern.

CUP: Controlled Update Propagation in Peer-to-Peer Networks

Recently the problem of indexing and locating content in peer-to-peer networks has received much attention. Previous work suggests caching index entries at intermediate nodes that lie on the paths taken by search queries, but until now there has been little focus on how to maintain these intermediate caches. This paper proposes CUP, a new comprehensive architecture for Controlled Update Propagation in peer-to-peer networks. CUP asynchronously builds caches of index entries while answering search queries. It then propagates updates of index entries to maintain these caches. Under unfavorable conditions, when compared with standard caching based on expiration times, CUP reduces the average miss latency by as much as a factor of three. Under favorable conditions, CUP can reduce the average miss latency by more than a factor of ten.
CUP refreshes intermediate caches, reduces query latency, and reduces network load by coalescing bursts of queries for the same item. CUP controls and confines propagation to updates whose cost is likely to be recovered by subsequent queries. CUP gives peer-to-peer nodes the flexibility to use their own incentive-based policies to determine when to receive and when to propagate updates. Finally, the small propagation overhead incurred by CUP is more than compensated for by its savings in cache misses.

Non-negative sparse coding

Non-negative sparse coding is a method for decomposing multivariate data into non-negative sparse components. In this paper we briefly describe the motivation behind this type of data representation and its relation to standard sparse coding and non-negative matrix factorization. We then give a simple yet efficient multiplicative algorithm for finding the optimal values of the hidden components. In addition, we show how the basis vectors can be learned from the observed data. Simulations demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.

Using parametric set constraints for locating errors in CLP programs

This paper introduces a framework of parametric descriptive directional types for constraint logic programming (CLP). It proposes a method for locating type errors in CLP programs and presents a prototype debugging tool. The main technique used is checking correctness of programs w.r.t. type specifications. The approach is based on a generalization of known methods for proving correctness of logic programs to the case of parametric specifications. Set-constraint techniques are used for formulating and checking verification conditions for (parametric) polymorphic type specifications. The specifications are expressed in a parametric extension of the formalism of term grammars. The soundness of the method is proved and the prototype debugging tool supporting the proposed approach is illustrated on examples.
The paper is a substantial extension of the previous work by the same authors concerning monomorphic directional types.

Small Strictly Convex Quadrilateral Meshes of Point Sets

In this paper, we give upper and lower bounds on the number of Steiner points required to construct a strictly convex quadrilateral mesh for a planar point set. In particular, we show that $3{\lfloor\frac{n}{2}\rfloor}$ internal Steiner points are always sufficient for a convex quadrilateral mesh of $n$ points in the plane. Furthermore, for any given $n\geq 4$, there are point sets for which $\lceil\frac{n-3}{2}\rceil-1$ Steiner points are necessary for a convex quadrilateral mesh.

Logic program specialisation through partial deduction: Control issues

Program specialisation aims at improving the overall performance of programs by performing source to source transformations. A common approach within functional and logic programming, known respectively as partial evaluation and partial deduction, is to exploit partial knowledge about the input. It is achieved through a well-automated application of parts of the Burstall-Darlington unfold/fold transformation framework. The main challenge in developing systems is to design automatic control that ensures correctness, efficiency, and termination. This survey and tutorial presents the main developments in controlling partial deduction over the past 10 years and analyses their respective merits and shortcomings. It ends with an assessment of current achievements and sketches some remaining research challenges.

The SDSS SkyServer: Public Access to the Sloan Digital Sky Server Data

The SkyServer provides Internet access to the public Sloan Digi-tal Sky Survey (SDSS) data for both astronomers and for science education. This paper describes the SkyServer goals and archi-tecture. It also describes our experience operating the SkyServer on the Internet. The SDSS data is public and well-documented so it makes a good test platform for research on database algorithms and performance.

Data Mining the SDSS SkyServer Database

An earlier paper (Szalay et. al. "Designing and Mining MultiTerabyte Astronomy Archives: The Sloan Digital Sky Survey," ACM SIGMOD 2000) described the Sloan Digital Sky Survey's (SDSS) data management needs by defining twenty database queries and twelve data visualization tasks that a good data management system should support. We built a database and interfaces to support both the query load and also a website for ad-hoc access. This paper reports on the database design, describes the data loading pipeline, and reports on the query implementation and performance. The queries typically translated to a single SQL statement. Most queries run in less than 20 seconds, allowing scientists to interactively explore the database. This paper is an in-depth tour of those queries. Readers should first have studied the companion overview paper Szalay et. al. "The SDSS SkyServer, Public Access to the Sloan Digital Sky Server Data" ACM SIGMOND 2002.

Linear Programming helps solving large multi-unit combinatorial auctions

Previous works suggested the use of Branch and Bound techniques for finding the optimal allocation in (multi-unit) combinatorial auctions. They remarked that Linear Programming could provide a good upper-bound to the optimal allocation, but they went on using lighter and less tight upper-bound heuristics, on the ground that LP was too time-consuming to be used repetitively to solve large combinatorial auctions. We present the results of extensive experiments solving large (multi-unit) combinatorial auctions generated according to distributions proposed by different researchers. Our surprising conclusion is that Linear Programming is worth using. Investing almost all of one's computing time in using LP to bound from above the value of the optimal solution in order to prune aggressively pays off. We present a way to save on the number of calls to the LP routine and experimental results comparing different heuristics for choosing the bid to be considered next. Those results show that the ordering based on the square root of the size of the bids that was shown to be theoretically optimal in a previous paper by the authors performs surprisingly better than others in practice. Choosing to deal first with the bid with largest coefficient (typically 1) in the optimal solution of the relaxed LP problem, is also a good choice. The gap between the lower bound provided by greedy heuristics and the upper bound provided by LP is typically small and pruning is therefore extensive. For most distributions, auctions of a few hundred goods among a few thousand bids can be solved in practice. All experiments were run on a PC under Matlab.

Truth Revelation in Approximately Efficient Combinatorial Auctions

Some important classical mechanisms considered in Microeconomics and Game Theory require the solution of a difficult optimization problem. This is true of mechanisms for combinatorial auctions, which have in recent years assumed practical importance, and in particular of the gold standard for combinatorial auctions, the Generalized Vickrey Auction (GVA). Traditional analysis of these mechanisms - in particular, their truth revelation properties - assumes that the optimization problems are solved precisely. In reality, these optimization problems can usually be solved only in an approximate fashion. We investigate the impact on such mechanisms of replacing exact solutions by approximate ones. Specifically, we look at a particular greedy optimization method. We show that the GVA payment scheme does not provide for a truth revealing mechanism. We introduce another scheme that does guarantee truthfulness for a restricted class of players. We demonstrate the latter property by identifying natural properties for combinatorial auctions and showing that, for our restricted class of players, they imply that truthful strategies are dominant. Those properties have applicability beyond the specific auction studied.

Nonmonotonic Logics and Semantics

Tarski gave a general semantics for deductive reasoning: a formula a may be deduced from a set A of formulas iff a holds in all models in which each of the elements of A holds. A more liberal semantics has been considered: a formula a may be deduced from a set A of formulas iff a holds in all of the "preferred" models in which all the elements of A hold. Shoham proposed that the notion of "preferred" models be defined by a partial ordering on the models of the underlying language. A more general semantics is described in this paper, based on a set of natural properties of choice functions. This semantics is here shown to be equivalent to a semantics based on comparing the relative "importance" of sets of models, by what amounts to a qualitative probability measure. The consequence operations defined by the equivalent semantics are then characterized by a weakening of Tarski's properties in which the monotonicity requirement is replaced by three weaker conditions. Classical propositional connectives are characterized by natural introduction-elimination rules in a nonmonotonic setting. Even in the nonmonotonic setting, one obtains classical propositional logic, thus showing that monotonicity is not required to justify classical propositional connectives.

Nonmonotonic Reasoning, Preferential Models and Cumulative Logics

Many systems that exhibit nonmonotonic behavior have been described and studied already in the literature. The general notion of nonmonotonic reasoning, though, has almost always been described only negatively, by the property it does not enjoy, i.e. monotonicity. We study here general patterns of nonmonotonic reasoning and try to isolate properties that could help us map the field of nonmonotonic reasoning by reference to positive properties. We concentrate on a number of families of nonmonotonic consequence relations, defined in the style of Gentzen. Both proof-theoretic and semantic points of view are developed in parallel. The former point of view was pioneered by D. Gabbay, while the latter has been advocated by Y. Shoham in. Five such families are defined and characterized by representation theorems, relating the two points of view. One of the families of interest, that of preferential relations, turns out to have been studied by E. Adams. The "preferential" models proposed here are a much stronger tool than Adams' probabilistic semantics. The basic language used in this paper is that of propositional logic. The extension of our results to first order predicate calculi and the study of the computational complexity of the decision problems described in this paper will be treated in another paper.

What does a conditional knowledge base entail?

This paper presents a logical approach to nonmonotonic reasoning based on the notion of a nonmonotonic consequence relation. A conditional knowledge base, consisting of a set of conditional assertions of the type "if ... then ...", represents the explicit defeasible knowledge an agent has about the way the world generally behaves. We look for a plausible definition of the set of all conditional assertions entailed by a conditional knowledge base. In a previous paper, S. Kraus and the authors defined and studied "preferential" consequence relations. They noticed that not all preferential relations could be considered as reasonable inference procedures. This paper studies a more restricted class of consequence relations, "rational" relations. It is argued that any reasonable nonmonotonic inference procedure should define a rational relation. It is shown that the rational relations are exactly those that may be represented by a "ranked" preferential model, or by a (non-standard) probabilistic model. The rational closure of a conditional knowledge base is defined and shown to provide an attractive answer to the question of the title. Global properties of this closure operation are proved: it is a cumulative operation. It is also computationally tractable. This paper assumes the underlying language is propositional.

Expected Qualitative Utility Maximization

A model for decision making that generalizes Expected Utility Maximization is presented. This model, Expected Qualitative Utility Maximization, encompasses the Maximin criterion. It relaxes both the Independence and the Continuity postulates. Its main ingredient is the definition of a qualitative order on nonstandard models of the real numbers and the consideration of nonstandard utilities. Expected Qualitative Utility Maximization is characterized by an original weakening of von Neumann-Morgenstern's postulates. Subjective probabilities may be defined from those weakened postulates, as Anscombe and Aumann did from the original postulates. Subjective probabilities are numbers, not matrices as in the Subjective Expected Lexicographic Utility approach. JEL no.: D81 Keywords: Utility Theory, Non-Standard Utilities, Qualitative Decision Theory

A note on Darwiche and Pearl

It is shown that Darwiche and Pearl's postulates imply an interesting property, not noticed by the authors.

Distance Semantics for Belief Revision

A vast and interesting family of natural semantics for belief revision is defined. Suppose one is given a distance d between any two models. One may then define the revision of a theory K by a formula a as the theory defined by the set of all those models of a that are closest, by d, to the set of models of K. This family is characterized by a set of rationality postulates that extends the AGM postulates. The new postulates describe properties of iterated revisions.

Preferred History Semantics for Iterated Updates

We give a semantics to iterated update by a preference relation on possible developments. An iterated update is a sequence of formulas, giving (incomplete) information about successive states of the world. A development is a sequence of models, describing a possible trajectory through time. We assume a principle of inertia and prefer those developments, which are compatible with the information, and avoid unnecessary changes. The logical properties of the updates defined in this way are considered, and a representation result is proved.

BSML: A Binding Schema Markup Language for Data Interchange in Problem Solving Environments (PSEs)

We describe a binding schema markup language (BSML) for describing data interchange between scientific codes. Such a facility is an important constituent of scientific problem solving environments (PSEs). BSML is designed to integrate with a PSE or application composition system that views model specification and execution as a problem of managing semistructured data. The data interchange problem is addressed by three techniques for processing semistructured data: validation, binding, and conversion. We present BSML and describe its application to a PSE for wireless communications system design.

Classes of service under perfect competition and technological change: a model for the dynamics of the Internet?

Certain services may be provided in a continuous, one-dimensional, ordered range of different qualities and a customer requiring a service of quality q can only be offered a quality superior or equal to q. Only a discrete set of different qualities will be offered, and a service provider will provide the same service (of fixed quality b) to all customers requesting qualities of service inferior or equal to b. Assuming all services (of quality b) are priced identically, a monopolist will choose the qualities of service and the prices that maximize profit but, under perfect competition, a service provider will choose the (inferior) quality of service that can be priced at the lowest price. Assuming significant economies of scale, two fundamentally different regimes are possible: either a number of different classes of service are offered (DC regime), or a unique class of service offers an unbounded quality of service (UC regime). The DC regime appears in one of two sub-regimes: one, BDC, in which a finite number of classes is offered, the qualities of service offered are bounded and requests for high-quality services are not met, or UDC in which an infinite number of classes of service are offered and every request is met. The types of the demand curve and of the economies of scale, not the pace of technological change, determine the regime and the class boundaries. The price structure in the DC regime obeys very general laws.

Nonstandard numbers for qualitative decision making

The consideration of nonstandard models of the real numbers and the definition of a qualitative ordering on those models provides a generalization of the principle of maximization of expected utility. It enables the decider to assign probabilities of different orders of magnitude to different events or to assign utilities of different orders of magnitude to different outcomes. The properties of this generalized notion of rationality are studied in the frameworks proposed by von Neumann and Morgenstern and later by Anscombe and Aumann. It is characterized by an original weakening of their postulates in two different situations: nonstandard probabilities and standard utilities on one hand and standard probabilities and nonstandard utilities on the other hand. This weakening concerns both Independence and Continuity. It is orthogonal with the weakening proposed by lexicographic orderings.

Generalized Qualitative Probability: Savage revisited

Preferences among acts are analyzed in the style of L. Savage, but as partially ordered. The rationality postulates considered are weaker than Savage's on three counts. The Sure Thing Principle is derived in this setting. The postulates are shown to lead to a characterization of generalized qualitative probability that includes and blends both traditional qualitative probability and the ranked structures used in logical approaches.

Nonmonotonic inference operations

A. Tarski proposed the study of infinitary consequence operations as the central topic of mathematical logic. He considered monotonicity to be a property of all such operations. In this paper, we weaken the monotonicity requirement and consider more general operations, inference operations. These operations describe the nonmonotonic logics both humans and machines seem to be using when infering defeasible information from incomplete knowledge. We single out a number of interesting families of inference operations. This study of infinitary inference operations is inspired by the results of Kraus, Lehmann and Magidor on finitary nonmonotonic operations, but this paper is self-contained.

Optimal Solutions for Multi-Unit Combinatorial Auctions: Branch and Bound Heuristics

Finding optimal solutions for multi-unit combinatorial auctions is a hard problem and finding approximations to the optimal solution is also hard. We investigate the use of Branch-and-Bound techniques: they require both a way to bound from above the value of the best allocation and a good criterion to decide which bids are to be tried first. Different methods for efficiently bounding from above the value of the best allocation are considered. Theoretical original results characterize the best approximation ratio and the ordering criterion that provides it. We suggest to use this criterion.

The logical meaning of Expansion

The Expansion property considered by researchers in Social Choice is shown to correspond to a logical property of nonmonotonic consequence relations that is the {\em pure}, i.e., not involving connectives, version of a previously known weak rationality condition. The assumption that the union of two definable sets of models is definable is needed for the soundness part of the result.

Covariance Plasticity and Regulated Criticality

We propose that a regulation mechanism based on Hebbian covariance plasticity may cause the brain to operate near criticality. We analyze the effect of such a regulation on the dynamics of a network with excitatory and inhibitory neurons and uniform connectivity within and across the two populations. We show that, under broad conditions, the system converges to a critical state lying at the common boundary of three regions in parameter space; these correspond to three modes of behavior: high activity, low activity, oscillation.

Sprinkling Selections over Join DAGs for Efficient Query Optimization

In optimizing queries, solutions based on AND/OR DAG can generate all possible join orderings and select placements before searching for optimal query execution strategy. But as the number of joins and selection conditions increase, the space and time complexity to generate optimal query plan increases exponentially. In this paper, we use join graph for a relational database schema to either pre-compute all possible join orderings that can be executed and store it as a join DAG or, extract joins in the queries to incrementally build a history join DAG as and when the queries are executed. The select conditions in the queries are appropriately placed in the retrieved join DAG (or, history join DAG) to generate optimal query execution strategy. We experimentally evaluate our query optimization technique on TPC-D/H query sets to show their effectiveness over AND/OR DAG query optimization strategy. Finally, we illustrate how our technique can be used for efficient multiple query optimization and selection of materialized views in data warehousing environments.

Equivalence and Isomorphism for Boolean Constraint Satisfaction

A Boolean constraint satisfaction instance is a conjunction of constraint applications, where the allowed constraints are drawn from a fixed set B of Boolean functions. We consider the problem of determining whether two given constraint satisfaction instances are equivalent and prove a Dichotomy Theorem by showing that for all sets C of allowed constraints, this problem is either polynomial-time solvable or coNP-complete, and we give a simple criterion to determine which case holds.
A more general problem addressed in this paper is the isomorphism problem, the problem of determining whether there exists a renaming of the variables that makes two given constraint satisfaction instances equivalent in the above sense. We prove that this problem is coNP-hard if the corresponding equivalence problem is coNP-hard, and polynomial-time many-one reducible to the graph isomorphism problem in all other cases.

The efficient generation of unstructured control volumes in 2D and 3D

Many problems in engineering, chemistry and physics require the representation of solutions in complex geometries. In the paper we deal with a problem of unstructured mesh generation for the control volume method. We propose an algorithm which bases on the spheres generation in central points of the control volumes.

Towards Generic Refactoring

We study program refactoring while considering the language or even the programming paradigm as a parameter. We use typed functional programs, namely Haskell programs, as the specification medium for a corresponding refactoring framework. In order to detach ourselves from language syntax, our specifications adhere to the following style. (I) As for primitive algorithms for program analysis and transformation, we employ generic function combinators supporting generic traversal and polymorphic functions refined by ad-hoc cases. (II) As for the language abstractions involved in refactorings, we design a dedicated multi-parameter class. This class can be instantiated for abstractions as present in various languages, e.g., Java, Prolog or Haskell.

Another perspective on Default Reasoning

The lexicographic closure of any given finite set D of normal defaults is defined. A conditional assertion "if a then b" is in this lexicographic closure if, given the defaults D and the fact a, one would conclude b. The lexicographic closure is essentially a rational extension of D, and of its rational closure, defined in a previous paper. It provides a logic of normal defaults that is different from the one proposed by R. Reiter and that is rich enough not to require the consideration of non-normal defaults. A large number of examples are provided to show that the lexicographic closure corresponds to the basic intuitions behind Reiter's logic of defaults.

Deductive Nonmonotonic Inference Operations: Antitonic Representations

We provide a characterization of those nonmonotonic inference operations C for which C(X) may be described as the set of all logical consequences of X together with some set of additional assumptions S(X) that depends anti-monotonically on X (i.e., X is a subset of Y implies that S(Y) is a subset of S(X)). The operations represented are exactly characterized in terms of properties most of which have been studied in Freund-Lehmann(cs.AI/0202031). Similar characterizations of right-absorbing and cumulative operations are also provided. For cumulative operations, our results fit in closely with those of Freund. We then discuss extending finitary operations to infinitary operations in a canonical way and discuss co-compactness properties. Our results provide a satisfactory notion of pseudo-compactness, generalizing to deductive nonmonotonic operations the notion of compactness for monotonic operations. They also provide an alternative, more elegant and more general, proof of the existence of an infinitary deductive extension for any finitary deductive operation (Theorem 7.9 of Freund-Lehmann).

Stereotypical Reasoning: Logical Properties

Stereotypical reasoning assumes that the situation at hand is one of a kind and that it enjoys the properties generally associated with that kind of situation. It is one of the most basic forms of nonmonotonic reasoning. A formal model for stereotypical reasoning is proposed and the logical properties of this form of reasoning are studied. Stereotypical reasoning is shown to be cumulative under weak assumptions.

A Framework for Compiling Preferences in Logic Programs

We introduce a methodology and framework for expressing general preference information in logic programming under the answer set semantics. An ordered logic program is an extended logic program in which rules are named by unique terms, and in which preferences among rules are given by a set of atoms of form s < t where s and t are names. An ordered logic program is transformed into a second, regular, extended logic program wherein the preferences are respected, in that the answer sets obtained in the transformed program correspond with the preferred answer sets of the original program. Our approach allows the specification of dynamic orderings, in which preferences can appear arbitrarily within a program. Static orderings (in which preferences are external to a logic program) are a trivial restriction of the general dynamic case. First, we develop a specific approach to reasoning with preferences, wherein the preference ordering specifies the order in which rules are to be applied. We then demonstrate the wide range of applicability of our framework by showing how other approaches, among them that of Brewka and Eiter, can be captured within our framework. Since the result of each of these transformations is an extended logic program, we can make use of existing implementations, such as dlv and smodels. To this end, we have developed a publicly available compiler as a front-end for these programming systems.

Composing Programs in a Rewriting Logic for Declarative Programming

Constructor-Based Conditional Rewriting Logic is a general framework for integrating first-order functional and logic programming which gives an algebraic semantics for non-deterministic functional-logic programs. In the context of this formalism, we introduce a simple notion of program module as an open program which can be extended together with several mechanisms to combine them. These mechanisms are based on a reduced set of operations. However, the high expressiveness of these operations enable us to model typical constructs for program modularization like hiding, export/import, genericity/instantiation, and inheritance in a simple way. We also deal with the semantic aspects of the proposal by introducing an immediate consequence operator, and studying several alternative semantics for a program module, based on this operator, in the line of logic programming: the operator itself, its least fixpoint (the least model of the module), the set of its pre-fixpoints (term models of the module), and some other variations in order to find a compositional and fully abstract semantics wrt the set of operations and a natural notion of observability.

Two results for proiritized logic programming

Prioritized default reasoning has illustrated its rich expressiveness and flexibility in knowledge representation and reasoning. However, many important aspects of prioritized default reasoning have yet to be thoroughly explored. In this paper, we investigate two properties of prioritized logic programs in the context of answer set semantics. Specifically, we reveal a close relationship between mutual defeasibility and uniqueness of the answer set for a prioritized logic program. We then explore how the splitting technique for extended logic programs can be extended to prioritized logic programs. We prove splitting theorems that can be used to simplify the evaluation of a prioritized logic program under certain conditions.

Computational Geometry Column 43

The concept of pointed pseudo-triangulations is defined and a few of its applications described.

SPINning Parallel Systems Software

We describe our experiences in using SPIN to verify parts of the Multi Purpose Daemon (MPD) parallel process management system. MPD is a distributed collection of processes connected by Unix network sockets. MPD is dynamic: processes and connections among them are created and destroyed as MPD is initialized, runs user processes, recovers from faults, and terminates. This dynamic nature is easily expressible in the SPIN/PROMELA framework but poses performance and scalability challenges. We present here the results of expressing some of the parallel algorithms of MPD and executing both simulation and verification runs with SPIN.

On Learning by Exchanging Advice

One of the main questions concerning learning in Multi-Agent Systems is: (How) can agents benefit from mutual interaction during the learning process?. This paper describes the study of an interactive advice-exchange mechanism as a possible way to improve agents' learning performance. The advice-exchange technique, discussed here, uses supervised learning (backpropagation), where reinforcement is not directly coming from the environment but is based on advice given by peers with better performance score (higher confidence), to enhance the performance of a heterogeneous group of Learning Agents (LAs). The LAs are facing similar problems, in an environment where only reinforcement information is available. Each LA applies a different, well known, learning technique: Random Walk (hill-climbing), Simulated Annealing, Evolutionary Algorithms and Q-Learning. The problem used for evaluation is a simplified traffic-control simulation. Initial results indicate that advice-exchange can improve learning speed, although bad advice and/or blind reliance can disturb the learning performance.

Capturing Knowledge of User Preferences: ontologies on recommender systems

Tools for filtering the World Wide Web exist, but they are hampered by the difficulty of capturing user preferences in such a dynamic environment. We explore the acquisition of user profiles by unobtrusive monitoring of browsing behaviour and application of supervised machine-learning techniques coupled with an ontological representation to extract user preferences. A multi-class approach to paper classification is used, allowing the paper topic taxonomy to be utilised during profile construction. The Quickstep recommender system is presented and two empirical studies evaluate it in a real work setting, measuring the effectiveness of using a hierarchical topic ontology compared with an extendable flat list.

Interface agents: A review of the field

This paper reviews the origins of interface agents, discusses challenges that exist within the interface agent field and presents a survey of current attempts to find solutions to these challenges. A history of agent systems from their birth in the 1960's to the current day is described, along with the issues they try to address. A taxonomy of interface agent systems is presented, and today's agent systems categorized accordingly. Lastly, an analysis of the machine learning and user modelling techniques used by today's agents is presented.

Representing and Aggregating Conflicting Beliefs

We consider the two-fold problem of representing collective beliefs and aggregating these beliefs. We propose modular, transitive relations for collective beliefs. They allow us to represent conflicting opinions and they have a clear semantics. We compare them with the quasi-transitive relations often used in Social Choice. Then, we describe a way to construct the belief state of an agent informed by a set of sources of varying degrees of reliability. This construction circumvents Arrow's Impossibility Theorem in a satisfactory manner. Finally, we give a simple set-theory-based operator for combining the information of multiple agents. We show that this operator satisfies the desirable invariants of idempotence, commutativity, and associativity, and, thus, is well-behaved when iterated, and we describe a computationally effective way of computing the resulting belief state.

Towards Experimental Nanosound Using Almost Disjoint Set Theory

Music composition using digital audio sequence editors is increasingly performed in a visual workspace where sound complexes are built from discrete sound objects, called gestures that are arranged in time and space to generate a continuous composition. The visual workspace, common to most industry standard audio loop sequencing software, is premised on the arrangement of gestures defined with geometric shape properties. Here, one aspect of fractal set theory was validated using audio-frequency sets to evaluate self-affine scaling behavior when new sound complexes are built through union and intersection operations on discrete musical gestures. Results showed that intersection of two sets revealed lower complexity compared with the union operator, meaning that the intersection of two sound gestures is an almost disjoint set, and in accord with formal logic. These results are also discussed with reference to fuzzy sets, cellular automata, nanotechnology and self-organization to further explore the link between sequenced notation and complexity.

Dimension in Complexity Classes

A theory of resource-bounded dimension is developed using gales, which are natural generalizations of martingales. When the resource bound Δ(a parameter of the theory) is unrestricted, the resulting dimension is precisely the classical Hausdorff dimension (sometimes called fractal dimension). Other choices of the parameter Δyield internal dimension theories in E, E2, ESPACE, and other complexity classes, and in the class of all decidable problems. In general, if C is such a class, then every set X of languages has a dimension in C, which is a real number dim(X|C) in [0,1]. Along with the elements of this theory, two preliminary applications are presented:
1. For every real number αin (0,1/2), the set FREQ(<=α), consisting of all languages that asymptotically contain at most αof all strings, has dimension H(α) -- the binary entropy of α-- in E and in E2.
2. For every real number αin (0,1), the set SIZE(α* (2^n)/n), consisting of all languages decidable by Boolean circuits of at most α*(2^n)/n gates, has dimension αin ESPACE.

The Dimensions of Individual Strings and Sequences

A constructive version of Hausdorff dimension is developed using constructive supergales, which are betting strategies that generalize the constructive supermartingales used in the theory of individual random sequences. This constructive dimension is used to assign every individual (infinite, binary) sequence S a dimension, which is a real number dim(S) in the interval [0,1]. Sequences that are random (in the sense of Martin-Lof) have dimension 1, while sequences that are decidable, Σ^0_1, or Π^0_1 have dimension 0. It is shown that for every Δ^0_2-computable real number αin [0,1] there is a Δ^0_2 sequence S such that \dim(S) = α.
A discrete version of constructive dimension is also developed using termgales, which are supergale-like functions that bet on the terminations of (finite, binary) strings as well as on their successive bits. This discrete dimension is used to assign each individual string w a dimension, which is a nonnegative real number dim(w). The dimension of a sequence is shown to be the limit infimum of the dimensions of its prefixes.
The Kolmogorov complexity of a string is proven to be the product of its length and its dimension. This gives a new characterization of algorithmic information and a new proof of Mayordomo's recent theorem stating that the dimension of a sequence is the limit infimum of the average Kolmogorov complexity of its first n bits.
Every sequence that is random relative to any computable sequence of coin-toss biases that converge to a real number βin (0,1) is shown to have dimension \H(β), the binary entropy of β.

GridSim: A Toolkit for the Modeling and Simulation of Distributed Resource Management and Scheduling for Grid Computing

Clusters, grids, and peer-to-peer (P2P) networks have emerged as popular paradigms for next generation parallel and distributed computing. The management of resources and scheduling of applications in such large-scale distributed systems is a complex undertaking. In order to prove the effectiveness of resource brokers and associated scheduling algorithms, their performance needs to be evaluated under different scenarios such as varying number of resources and users with different requirements. In a grid environment, it is hard and even impossible to perform scheduler performance evaluation in a repeatable and controllable manner as resources and users are distributed across multiple organizations with their own policies. To overcome this limitation, we have developed a Java-based discrete-event grid simulation toolkit called GridSim. The toolkit supports modeling and simulation of heterogeneous grid resources (both time- and space-shared), users and application models. It provides primitives for creation of application tasks, mapping of tasks to resources, and their management. To demonstrate suitability of the GridSim toolkit, we have simulated a Nimrod-G like grid resource broker and evaluated the performance of deadline and budget constrained cost- and time-minimization scheduling algorithms.

A Deadline and Budget Constrained Cost-Time Optimisation Algorithm for Scheduling Task Farming Applications on Global Grids

Computational Grids and peer-to-peer (P2P) networks enable the sharing, selection, and aggregation of geographically distributed resources for solving large-scale problems in science, engineering, and commerce. The management and composition of resources and services for scheduling applications, however, becomes a complex undertaking. We have proposed a computational economy framework for regulating the supply and demand for resources and allocating them for applications based on the users quality of services requirements. The framework requires economy driven deadline and budget constrained (DBC) scheduling algorithms for allocating resources to application jobs in such a way that the users requirements are met. In this paper, we propose a new scheduling algorithm, called DBC cost-time optimisation, which extends the DBC cost-optimisation algorithm to optimise for time, keeping the cost of computation at the minimum. The superiority of this new scheduling algorithm, in achieving lower job completion time, is demonstrated by simulating the World-Wide Grid and scheduling task-farming applications for different deadline and budget scenarios using both this new and the cost optimisation scheduling algorithms.

NetNeg: A Connectionist-Agent Integrated System for Representing Musical Knowledge

The system presented here shows the feasibility of modeling the knowledge involved in a complex musical activity by integrating sub-symbolic and symbolic processes. This research focuses on the question of whether there is any advantage in integrating a neural network together with a distributed artificial intelligence approach within the music domain. The primary purpose of our work is to design a model that describes the different aspects a user might be interested in considering when involved in a musical activity. The approach we suggest in this work enables the musician to encode his knowledge, intuitions, and aesthetic taste into different modules. The system captures these aspects by computing and applying three distinct functions: rules, fuzzy concepts, and learning.
As a case study, we began experimenting with first species two-part counterpoint melodies. We have developed a hybrid system composed of a connectionist module and an agent-based module to combine the sub-symbolic and symbolic levels to achieve this task. The technique presented here to represent musical knowledge constitutes a new approach for composing polyphonic music.

Three Optimisations for Sharing

In order to improve precision and efficiency sharing analysis should track both freeness and linearity. The abstract unification algorithms for these combined domains are suboptimal, hence there is scope for improving precision. This paper proposes three optimisations for tracing sharing in combination with freeness and linearity. A novel connection between equations and sharing abstractions is used to establish correctness of these optimisations even in the presence of rational trees. A method for pruning intermediate sharing abstractions to improve efficiency is also proposed. The optimisations are lightweight and therefore some, if not all, of these optimisations will be of interest to the implementor.

Agent trade servers in financial exchange systems

New services based on the best-effort paradigm could complement the current deterministic services of an electronic financial exchange. Four crucial aspects of such systems would benefit from a hybrid stance: proper use of processing resources, bandwidth management, fault tolerance, and exception handling. We argue that a more refined view on Quality-of-Service control for exchange systems, in which the principal ambition of upholding a fair and orderly marketplace is left uncompromised, would benefit all interested parties.

Sufficiently Fat Polyhedra are not 2-castable

In this note we consider the problem of manufacturing a convex polyhedral object via casting. We consider a generalization of the sand casting process where the object is manufactured by gluing together two identical faces of parts cast with a single piece mold. In this model we show that the class of convex polyhedra which can be enclosed between two concentric spheres of the ratio of their radii less than 1.07 cannot be manufactured using only two cast parts.

Conformal Geometry, Euclidean Space and Geometric Algebra

Projective geometry provides the preferred framework for most implementations of Euclidean space in graphics applications. Translations and rotations are both linear transformations in projective geometry, which helps when it comes to programming complicated geometrical operations. But there is a fundamental weakness in this approach - the Euclidean distance between points is not handled in a straightforward manner. Here we discuss a solution to this problem, based on conformal geometry. The language of geometric algebra is best suited to exploiting this geometry, as it handles the interior and exterior products in a single, unified framework. A number of applications are discussed, including a compact formula for reflecting a line off a general spherical surface.

The Algorithms of Updating Sequential Patterns

Because the data being mined in the temporal database will evolve with time, many researchers have focused on the incremental mining of frequent sequences in temporal database. In this paper, we propose an algorithm called IUS, using the frequent and negative border sequences in the original database for incremental sequence mining. To deal with the case where some data need to be updated from the original database, we present an algorithm called DUS to maintain sequential patterns in the updated database. We also define the negative border sequence threshold: Min_nbd_supp to control the number of sequences in the negative border.

When to Update the sequential patterns of stream data?

In this paper, we first define a difference measure between the old and new sequential patterns of stream data, which is proved to be a distance. Then we propose an experimental method, called TPD (Tradeoff between Performance and Difference), to decide when to update the sequential patterns of stream data by making a tradeoff between the performance of increasingly updating algorithms and the difference of sequential patterns. The experiments for the incremental updating algorithm IUS on two data sets show that generally, as the size of incremental windows grows, the values of the speedup and the values of the difference will decrease and increase respectively. It is also shown experimentally that the incremental ratio determined by the TPD method does not monotonically increase or decrease but changes in a range between 20 and 30 percentage for the IUS algorithm.

Source Routing and Scheduling in Packet Networks

We study {\em routing} and {\em scheduling} in packet-switched networks. We assume an adversary that controls the injection time, source, and destination for each packet injected. A set of paths for these packets is {\em admissible} if no link in the network is overloaded. We present the first on-line routing algorithm that finds a set of admissible paths whenever this is feasible. Our algorithm calculates a path for each packet as soon as it is injected at its source using a simple shortest path computation. The length of a link reflects its current congestion. We also show how our algorithm can be implemented under today's Internet routing paradigms.
When the paths are known (either given by the adversary or computed as above) our goal is to schedule the packets along the given paths so that the packets experience small end-to-end delays. The best previous delay bounds for deterministic and distributed scheduling protocols were exponential in the path length. In this paper we present the first deterministic and distributed scheduling protocol that guarantees a polynomial end-to-end delay for every packet.
Finally, we discuss the effects of combining routing with scheduling. We first show that some unstable scheduling protocols remain unstable no matter how the paths are chosen. However, the freedom to choose paths can make a difference. For example, we show that a ring with parallel links is stable for all greedy scheduling protocols if paths are chosen intelligently, whereas this is not the case if the adversary specifies the paths.

Coin-Moving Puzzles

We introduce a new family of one-player games, involving the movement of coins from one configuration to another. Moves are restricted so that a coin can be placed only in a position that is adjacent to at least two other coins. The goal of this paper is to specify exactly which of these games are solvable. By introducing the notion of a constant number of extra coins, we give tight theorems characterizing solvable puzzles on the square grid and equilateral-triangle grid. These existence results are supplemented by polynomial-time algorithms for finding a solution.

Blind Normalization of Speech From Different Channels and Speakers

This paper describes representations of time-dependent signals that are invariant under any invertible time-independent transformation of the signal time series. Such a representation is created by rescaling the signal in a non-linear dynamic manner that is determined by recently encountered signal levels. This technique may make it possible to normalize signals that are related by channel-dependent and speaker-dependent transformations, without having to characterize the form of the signal transformations, which remain unknown. The technique is illustrated by applying it to the time-dependent spectra of speech that has been filtered to simulate the effects of different channels. The experimental results show that the rescaled speech representations are largely normalized (i.e., channel-independent), despite the channel-dependence of the raw (unrescaled) speech.

Models and Tools for Collaborative Annotation

The Annotation Graph Toolkit (AGTK) is a collection of software which facilitates development of linguistic annotation tools. AGTK provides a database interface which allows applications to use a database server for persistent storage. This paper discusses various modes of collaborative annotation and how they can be supported with tools built using AGTK and its database interface. We describe the relational database schema and API, and describe a version of the TableTrans tool which supports collaborative annotation. The remainder of the paper discusses a high-level query language for annotation graphs, along with optimizations, in support of expressive and efficient access to the annotations held on a large central server. The paper demonstrates that it is straightforward to support a variety of different levels of collaborative annotation with existing AGTK-based tools, with a minimum of additional programming effort.

Creating Annotation Tools with the Annotation Graph Toolkit

The Annotation Graph Toolkit is a collection of software supporting the development of annotation tools based on the annotation graph model. The toolkit includes application programming interfaces for manipulating annotation graph data and for importing data from other formats. There are interfaces for the scripting languages Tcl and Python, a database interface, specialized graphical user interfaces for a variety of annotation tasks, and several sample applications. This paper describes all the toolkit components for the benefit of would-be application developers.

TableTrans, MultiTrans, InterTrans and TreeTrans: Diverse Tools Built on the Annotation Graph Toolkit

Four diverse tools built on the Annotation Graph Toolkit are described. Each tool associates linguistic codes and structures with time-series data. All are based on the same software library and tool architecture. TableTrans is for observational coding, using a spreadsheet whose rows are aligned to a signal. MultiTrans is for transcribing multi-party communicative interactions recorded using multi-channel signals. InterTrans is for creating interlinear text aligned to audio. TreeTrans is for creating and manipulating syntactic trees. This work demonstrates that the development of diverse tools and re-use of software components is greatly facilitated by a common high-level application programming interface for representing the data and managing input/output, together with a common architecture for managing the interaction of multiple components.

An Integrated Framework for Treebanks and Multilayer Annotations

Treebank formats and associated software tools are proliferating rapidly, with little consideration for interoperability. We survey a wide variety of treebank structures and operations, and show how they can be mapped onto the annotation graph model, and leading to an integrated framework encompassing tree and non-tree annotations alike. This development opens up new possibilities for managing and exploiting multilayer annotations.

The tip-of-the-tongue phenomenon: Irrelevant neural network localization or disruption of its interneuron links ?

On the base of recently proposed three-stage quantitative neural network model of the tip-of-the-tongue (TOT) phenomenon a possibility to occur of TOT states coursed by neural network interneuron links' disruption has been studied. Using a numerical example it was found that TOTs coursed by interneron links' disruption are in (1.5 + - 0.3)x1000 times less probable then those coursed by irrelevant (incomplete) neural network localization. It was shown that delayed TOT states' etiology cannot be related to neural network interneuron links' disruption.

New Results on Monotone Dualization and Generating Hypergraph Transversals

We consider the problem of dualizing a monotone CNF (equivalently, computing all minimal transversals of a hypergraph), whose associated decision problem is a prominent open problem in NP-completeness. We present a number of new polynomial time resp. output-polynomial time results for significant cases, which largely advance the tractability frontier and improve on previous results. Furthermore, we show that duality of two monotone CNFs can be disproved with limited nondeterminism. More precisely, this is feasible in polynomial time with O(chi(n) * log n) suitably guessed bits, where chi(n) is given by χ(n)^chi(n) = n; note that chi(n) = o(log n). This result sheds new light on the complexity of this important problem.

On the Computational Complexity of Consistent Query Answers

We consider here the problem of obtaining reliable, consistent information from inconsistent databases -- databases that do not have to satisfy given integrity constraints. We use the notion of consistent query answer -- a query answer which is true in every (minimal) repair of the database. We provide a complete classification of the computational complexity of consistent answers to first-order queries w.r.t. functional dependencies and denial constraints. We show how the complexity depends on the {\em type} of the constraints considered, their {\em number}, and the {\em size} of the query. We obtain several new PTIME cases, using new algorithms.

Fair Stateless Aggregate Traffic Marking using Active Queue Management Techniques

In heterogeneous networks such as today's Internet, the differentiated services architecture promises to provide QoS guarantees through scalable service differentiation. Traffic marking is an important component of this framework. In this paper, we propose two new aggregate markers that are stateless, scalable and fair. We leverage stateless Active Queue Management (AQM) algorithms to enable fair and efficient token distribution among individual flows of an aggregate. The first marker, Probabilistic Aggregate Marker (PAM), uses the Token Bucket burst size to probabilistically mark incoming packets to ensure TCP-friendly and proportionally fair marking. The second marker, Stateless Aggregate Fair Marker (F-SAM) approximates fair queueing techniques to isolate flows while marking packets of the aggregate. It distributes tokens evenly among the flows without maintaining per-flow state. Our simulation results show that our marking strategies show upto 30% improvement over other commonly used markers while marking flow aggregates. These improvements are in terms of better average throughput and fairness indices, in scenarios containing heterogeneous traffic consisting of TCP (both long lived elephants and short lived mice) and misbehaving UDP flows. As a bonus, F-SAM helps the mice to win the war against elephants.

Exploiting Synergy Between Ontologies and Recommender Systems

Recommender systems learn about user preferences over time, automatically finding things of similar interest. This reduces the burden of creating explicit queries. Recommender systems do, however, suffer from cold-start problems where no initial information is available early on upon which to base recommendations. Semantic knowledge structures, such as ontologies, can provide valuable domain knowledge and user information. However, acquiring such knowledge and keeping it up to date is not a trivial task and user interests are particularly difficult to acquire and maintain. This paper investigates the synergy between a web-based research paper recommender system and an ontology containing information automatically extracted from departmental databases available on the web. The ontology is used to address the recommender systems cold-start problem. The recommender system addresses the ontology's interest-acquisition problem. An empirical evaluation of this approach is conducted and the performance of the integrated systems measured.

The Sketch of a Polymorphic Symphony

In previous work, we have introduced functional strategies, that is, first-class generic functions that can traverse into terms of any type while mixing uniform and type-specific behaviour. In the present paper, we give a detailed description of one particular Haskell-based model of functional strategies. This model is characterised as follows. Firstly, we employ first-class polymorphism as a form of second-order polymorphism as for the mere types of functional strategies. Secondly, we use an encoding scheme of run-time type case for mixing uniform and type-specific behaviour. Thirdly, we base all traversal on a fundamental combinator for folding over constructor applications.
Using this model, we capture common strategic traversal schemes in a highly parameterised style. We study two original forms of parameterisation. Firstly, we design parameters for the specific control-flow, data-flow and traversal characteristics of more concrete traversal schemes. Secondly, we use overloading to postpone commitment to a specific type scheme of traversal. The resulting portfolio of traversal schemes can be regarded as a challenging benchmark for setups for typed generic programming.
The way we develop the model and the suite of traversal schemes, it becomes clear that parameterised + typed strategic programming is best viewed as a potent combination of certain bits of parametric, intensional, polytypic, and ad-hoc polymorphism.

An Assessment of the Consistency for Software Measurement Methods

Consistency, defined as the requirement that a series of measurements of the same project carried out by different raters using the same method should produce similar results, is one of the most important aspects to be taken into account in the measurement methods of the software. In spite of this, there is a widespread view that many measurement methods introduce an undesirable amount of subjectivity in the measurement process. This perception has made several organizations develop revisions of the standard methods whose main aim is to improve their consistency by introducing some suitable modifications of those aspects which are believed to introduce a greater degree of subjectivity.Each revision of a method must be empirically evaluated to determine to what extent is the aim of improving its consistency achieved. In this article we will define an homogeneous statistic intended to describe the consistency level of a method, and we will develop the statistical analysis which should be carried out in order to conclude whether or not a measurement method is more consistent than other one.

Design Patterns for Functional Strategic Programming

In previous work, we introduced the fundamentals and a supporting combinator library for \emph{strategic programming}. This an idiom for generic programming based on the notion of a \emph{functional strategy}: a first-class generic function that cannot only be applied to terms of any type, but which also allows generic traversal into subterms and can be customized with type-specific behaviour.
This paper seeks to provide practicing functional programmers with pragmatic guidance in crafting their own strategic programs. We present the fundamentals and the support from a user's perspective, and we initiate a catalogue of \emph{strategy design patterns}. These design patterns aim at consolidating strategic programming expertise in accessible form.

Making Abstract Domains Condensing

In this paper we show that reversible analysis of logic languages by abstract interpretation can be performed without loss of precision by systematically refining abstract domains. The idea is to include semantic structures into abstract domains in such a way that the refined abstract domain becomes rich enough to allow approximate bottom-up and top-down semantics to agree. These domains are known as condensing abstract domains. Substantially, an abstract domain is condensing if goal-driven and goal-independent analyses agree, namely no loss of precision is introduced by approximating queries in a goal-independent analysis. We prove that condensation is an abstract domain property and that the problem of making an abstract domain condensing boils down to the problem of making the domain complete with respect to unification. In a general abstract interpretation setting we show that when concrete domains and operations give rise to quantales, i.e. models of propositional linear logic, objects in a complete refined abstract domain can be explicitly characterized by linear logic-based formulations. This is the case for abstract domains for logic program analysis approximating computed answer substitutions where unification plays the role of multiplicative conjunction in a quantale of idempotent substitutions. Condensing abstract domains can therefore be systematically derived by minimally extending any, generally non-condensing domain, by a simple domain refinement operator.

Solitaire Clobber

Clobber is a new two-player board game. In this paper, we introduce the one-player variant Solitaire Clobber where the goal is to remove as many stones as possible from the board by alternating white and black moves. We show that a checkerboard configuration on a single row (or single column) can be reduced to about n/4 stones. For boards with at least two rows and two columns, we show that a checkerboard configuration can be reduced to a single stone if and only if the number of stones is not a multiple of three, and otherwise it can be reduced to two stones. We also show that in general it is NP-complete to decide whether an arbitrary Clobber configuration can be reduced to a single stone.

Fast Universalization of Investment Strategies with Provably Good Relative Returns

A universalization of a parameterized investment strategy is an online algorithm whose average daily performance approaches that of the strategy operating with the optimal parameters determined offline in hindsight. We present a general framework for universalizing investment strategies and discuss conditions under which investment strategies are universalizable. We present examples of common investment strategies that fit into our framework. The examples include both trading strategies that decide positions in individual stocks, and portfolio strategies that allocate wealth among multiple stocks. This work extends Cover's universal portfolio work. We also discuss the runtime efficiency of universalization algorithms. While a straightforward implementation of our algorithms runs in time exponential in the number of parameters, we show that the efficient universal portfolio computation technique of Kalai and Vempala involving the sampling of log-concave functions can be generalized to other classes of investment strategies.

Seven Dimensions of Portability for Language Documentation and Description

The process of documenting and describing the world's languages is undergoing radical transformation with the rapid uptake of new digital technologies for capture, storage, annotation and dissemination. However, uncritical adoption of new tools and technologies is leading to resources that are difficult to reuse and which are less portable than the conventional printed resources they replace. We begin by reviewing current uses of software tools and digital technologies for language documentation and description. This sheds light on how digital language documentation and description are created and managed, leading to an analysis of seven portability problems under the following headings: content, format, discovery, access, citation, preservation and rights. After characterizing each problem we provide a series of value statements, and this provides the framework for a broad range of best practice recommendations.

Factual and Legal Risks regarding wireless Computer Networks

The IEEE 802.11b wireless ethernet standart has several serious security flaws. This paper describes this flaws, surveys wireless networks in the Cologne/Bonn area to get an assessment of the security configurations of fielded networks and analizes the legal protections provided to wireless ethernet operators by german law. We conclude that wireless ethernets without additional security measures are not usable for any transmissions which are not meant for a public audience.

Annotation Graphs and Servers and Multi-Modal Resources: Infrastructure for Interdisciplinary Education, Research and Development

Annotation graphs and annotation servers offer infrastructure to support the analysis of human language resources in the form of time-series data such as text, audio and video. This paper outlines areas of common need among empirical linguists and computational linguists. After reviewing examples of data and tools used or under development for each of several areas, it proposes a common framework for future tool development, data annotation and resource sharing based upon annotation graphs and servers.

The Geometric Maximum Traveling Salesman Problem

We consider the traveling salesman problem when the cities are points in R^d for some fixed d and distances are computed according to geometric distances, determined by some norm. We show that for any polyhedral norm, the problem of finding a tour of maximum length can be solved in polynomial time. If arithmetic operations are assumed to take unit time, our algorithms run in time O(n^{f-2} log n), where f is the number of facets of the polyhedron determining the polyhedral norm. Thus for example we have O(n^2 log n) algorithms for the cases of points in the plane under the Rectilinear and Sup norms. This is in contrast to the fact that finding a minimum length tour in each case is NP-hard. Our approach can be extended to the more general case of quasi-norms with not necessarily symmetric unit ball, where we get a complexity of O(n^{2f-2} log n).
For the special case of two-dimensional metrics with f=4 (which includes the Rectilinear and Sup norms), we present a simple algorithm with O(n) running time. The algorithm does not use any indirect addressing, so its running time remains valid even in comparison based models in which sorting requires Omega(n \log n) time. The basic mechanism of the algorithm provides some intuition on why polyhedral norms allow fast algorithms.
Complementing the results on simplicity for polyhedral norms, we prove that for the case of Euclidean distances in R^d for d>2, the Maximum TSP is NP-hard. This sheds new light on the well-studied difficulties of Euclidean distances.

Phonology

Phonology is the systematic study of the sounds used in language, their internal structure, and their composition into syllables, words and phrases. Computational phonology is the application of formal and computational techniques to the representation and processing of phonological information. This chapter will present the fundamentals of descriptive phonology along with a brief overview of computational phonology.

Querying Databases of Annotated Speech

Annotated speech corpora are databases consisting of signal data along with time-aligned symbolic `transcriptions'. Such databases are typically multidimensional, heterogeneous and dynamic. These properties present a number of tough challenges for representation and query. The temporal nature of the data adds an additional layer of complexity. This paper presents and harmonises two independent efforts to model annotated speech databases, one at Macquarie University and one at the University of Pennsylvania. Various query languages are described, along with illustrative applications to a variety of analytical problems. The research reported here forms a part of several ongoing projects to develop platform-independent open-source tools for creating, browsing, searching, querying and transforming linguistic databases, and to disseminate large linguistic databases over the internet.

Integrating selectional preferences in WordNet

Selectional preference learning methods have usually focused on word-to-class relations, e.g., a verb selects as its subject a given nominal class. This paper extends previous statistical models to class-to-class preferences, and presents a model that learns selectional preferences for classes of verbs, together with an algorithm to integrate the learned preferences in WordNet. The theoretical motivation is twofold: different senses of a verb may have different preferences, and classes of verbs may share preferences. On the practical side, class-to-class selectional preferences can be learned from untagged corpora (the same as word-to-class), they provide selectional preferences for less frequent word senses via inheritance, and more important, they allow for easy integration in WordNet. The model is trained on subject-verb and object-verb relationships extracted from a small corpus disambiguated with WordNet senses. Examples are provided illustrating that the theoretical motivations are well founded, and showing that the approach is feasible. Experimental results on a word sense disambiguation task are also provided.

Decision Lists for English and Basque

In this paper we describe the systems we developed for the English (lexical and all-words) and Basque tasks. They were all supervised systems based on Yarowsky's Decision Lists. We used Semcor for training in the English all-words task. We defined different feature sets for each language. For Basque, in order to extract all the information from the text, we defined features that have not been used before in the literature, using a morphological analyzer. We also implemented systems that selected automatically good features and were able to obtain a prefixed precision (85%) at the cost of coverage. The systems that used all the features were identified as BCU-ehu-dlist-all and the systems that selected some features as BCU-ehu-dlist-best.

The Basque task: did systems perform in the upperbound?

In this paper we describe the Senseval 2 Basque lexical-sample task. The task comprised 40 words (15 nouns, 15 verbs and 10 adjectives) selected from Euskal Hiztegia, the main Basque dictionary. Most examples were taken from the Egunkaria newspaper. The method used to hand-tag the examples produced low inter-tagger agreement (75%) before arbitration. The four competing systems attained results well above the most frequent baseline and the best system scored 75% precision at 100% coverage. The paper includes an analysis of the tagging procedure used, as well as the performance of the competing systems. In particular, we argue that inter-tagger agreement is not a real upperbound for the Basque WSD task.

A Dynamic Approach to Characterizing Termination of General Logic Programs

We present a new characterization of termination of general logic programs. Most existing termination analysis approaches rely on some static information about the structure of the source code of a logic program, such as modes/types, norms/level mappings, models/interargument relations, and the like. We propose a dynamic approach which employs some key dynamic features of an infinite (generalized) SLDNF-derivation, such as repetition of selected subgoals and recursive increase in term size. We also introduce a new formulation of SLDNF-trees, called generalized SLDNF-trees. Generalized SLDNF-trees deal with negative subgoals in the same way as Prolog and exist for any general logic programs.

Belief Revision and Rational Inference

The (extended) AGM postulates for belief revision seem to deal with the revision of a given theory K by an arbitrary formula, but not to constrain the revisions of two different theories by the same formula. A new postulate is proposed and compared with other similar postulates that have been proposed in the literature. The AGM revisions that satisfy this new postulate stand in one-to-one correspondence with the rational, consistency-preserving relations. This correspondence is described explicitly. Two viewpoints on iterative revisions are distinguished and discussed.

Randomized selection revisited

We show that several versions of Floyd and Rivest's algorithm Select for finding the $k$th smallest of $n$ elements require at most $n+\min\{k,n-k\}+o(n)$ comparisons on average and with high probability. This rectifies the analysis of Floyd and Rivest, and extends it to the case of nondistinct elements. Our computational results confirm that Select may be the best algorithm in practice.

Monitoring and Debugging Concurrent and Distributed Object-Oriented Systems

A major part of debugging, testing, and analyzing a complex software system is understanding what is happening within the system at run-time. Some developers advocate running within a debugger to better understand the system at this level. Others embed logging statements, even in the form of hard-coded calls to print functions, throughout the code. These techniques are all general, rough forms of what we call system monitoring, and, while they have limited usefulness in simple, sequential systems, they are nearly useless in complex, concurrent ones. We propose a set of new mechanisms, collectively known as a monitoring system, for understanding such complex systems, and we describe an example implementation of such a system, called IDebug, for the Java programming language.

Semantic Properties for Lightweight Specification in Knowledgeable Development Environments

Semantic properties are domain-specific specification constructs used to augment an existing language with richer semantics. These properties are taken advantage of in system analysis, design, implementation, testing, and maintenance through the use of documentation and source-code transformation tools. Semantic properties are themselves specified at two levels: loosely with precise natural language, and formally within the problem domain. The refinement relationships between these specification levels, as well as between a semantic property's use and its realization in program code via tools, is specified with a new formal method for reuse called kind theory.

Semantic Component Composition

Building complex software systems necessitates the use of component-based architectures. In theory, of the set of components needed for a design, only some small portion of them are "custom"; the rest are reused or refactored existing pieces of software. Unfortunately, this is an idealized situation. Just because two components should work together does not mean that they will work together.
The "glue" that holds components together is not just technology. The contracts that bind complex systems together implicitly define more than their explicit type. These "conceptual contracts" describe essential aspects of extra-system semantics: e.g., object models, type systems, data representation, interface action semantics, legal and contractual obligations, and more.
Designers and developers spend inordinate amounts of time technologically duct-taping systems to fulfill these conceptual contracts because system-wide semantics have not been rigorously characterized or codified. This paper describes a formal characterization of the problem and discusses an initial implementation of the resulting theoretical system.

Kolmogorov's Structure Functions and Model Selection

In 1974 Kolmogorov proposed a non-probabilistic approach to statistics and model selection. Let data be finite binary strings and models be finite sets of binary strings. Consider model classes consisting of models of given maximal (Kolmogorov) complexity. The ``structure function'' of the given data expresses the relation between the complexity level constraint on a model class and the least log-cardinality of a model in the class containing the data. We show that the structure function determines all stochastic properties of the data: for every constrained model class it determines the individual best-fitting model in the class irrespective of whether the ``true'' model is in the model class considered or not. In this setting, this happens {\em with certainty}, rather than with high probability as is in the classical case. We precisely quantify the goodness-of-fit of an individual model with respect to individual data. We show that--within the obvious constraints--every graph is realized by the structure function of some data. We determine the (un)computability properties of the various functions contemplated and of the ``algorithmic minimal sufficient statistic.''

Technology For Information Engineering (TIE): A New Way of Storing, Retrieving and Analyzing Information

The theoretical foundations of a new model and paradigm (called TIE) for data storage and access are introduced. Associations between data elements are stored in a single Matrix table, which is usually kept entirely in RAM for quick access. The model ties together a very intuitive "guided" GUI to the Matrix structure, allowing extremely easy complex searches through the data. Although it is an "Associative Model" in that it stores the data associations separately from the data itself, in contrast to other implementations of that model TIE guides the user to only the available information ensuring that every search is always fruitful. Very many diverse applications of the technology are reviewed.

Precongruence Formats for Decorated Trace Semantics

This paper explores the connection between semantic equivalences and preorders for concrete sequential processes, represented by means of labelled transition systems, and formats of transition system specifications using Plotkin's structural approach. For several preorders in the linear time - branching time spectrum a format is given, as general as possible, such that this preorder is a precongruence for all operators specifiable in that format. The formats are derived using the modal characterizations of the corresponding preorders.

Self-Optimizing and Pareto-Optimal Policies in General Environments based on Bayes-Mixtures

The problem of making sequential decisions in unknown probabilistic environments is studied. In cycle $t$ action $y_t$ results in perception $x_t$ and reward $r_t$, where all quantities in general may depend on the complete history. The perception $x_t$ and reward $r_t$ are sampled from the (reactive) environmental probability distribution $μ$. This very general setting includes, but is not limited to, (partial observable, k-th order) Markov decision processes. Sequential decision theory tells us how to act in order to maximize the total expected reward, called value, if $μ$ is known. Reinforcement learning is usually used if $μ$ is unknown. In the Bayesian approach one defines a mixture distribution $ξ$ as a weighted sum of distributions $ν\in\M$, where $\M$ is any class of distributions including the true environment $μ$. We show that the Bayes-optimal policy $p^ξ$ based on the mixture $ξ$ is self-optimizing in the sense that the average value converges asymptotically for all $μ\in\M$ to the optimal value achieved by the (infeasible) Bayes-optimal policy $p^μ$ which knows $μ$ in advance. We show that the necessary condition that $\M$ admits self-optimizing policies at all, is also sufficient. No other structural assumptions are made on $\M$. As an example application, we discuss ergodic Markov decision processes, which allow for self-optimizing policies. Furthermore, we show that $p^ξ$ is Pareto-optimal in the sense that there is no other policy yielding higher or equal value in {\em all} environments $ν\in\M$ and a strictly higher value in at least one.

Trust Brokerage Systems for the Internet

This thesis addresses the problem of providing trusted individuals with confidential information about other individuals, in particular, granting access to databases of personal records using the World-Wide Web. It proposes an access rights management system for distributed databases which aims to create and implement organisation structures based on the wishes of the owners and of demands of the users of the databases. The dissertation describes how current software components could be used to implement this system; it re-examines the theory of collective choice to develop mechanisms for generating hierarchies of authorities; it analyses organisational processes for stability and develops a means of measuring the similarity of their hierarchies.

Preprocessing Chains for Fast Dihedral Rotations Is Hard or Even Impossible

We examine a computational geometric problem concerning the structure of polymers. We model a polymer as a polygonal chain in three dimensions. Each edge splits the polymer into two subchains, and a dihedral rotation rotates one of these chains rigidly about this edge. The problem is to determine, given a chain, an edge, and an angle of rotation, if the motion can be performed without causing the chain to self-intersect. An Omega(n log n) lower bound on the time complexity of this problem is known.
We prove that preprocessing a chain of n edges and answering n dihedral rotation queries is 3SUM-hard, giving strong evidence that solving n queries requires Omega(n^2) time in the worst case. For dynamic queries, which also modify the chain if the requested dihedral rotation is feasible, we show that answering n queries is by itself 3SUM-hard, suggesting that sublinear query time is impossible after any amount of preprocessing.

Learning from Scarce Experience

Searching the space of policies directly for the optimal policy has been one popular method for solving partially observable reinforcement learning problems. Typically, with each change of the target policy, its value is estimated from the results of following that very policy. This requires a large number of interactions with the environment as different polices are considered. We present a family of algorithms based on likelihood ratio estimation that use data gathered when executing one policy (or collection of policies) to estimate the value of a different policy. The algorithms combine estimation and optimization stages. The former utilizes experience to build a non-parametric representation of an optimized function. The latter performs optimization on this estimate. We show positive empirical results and provide the sample complexity bound.

Robust Global Localization Using Clustered Particle Filtering

Global mobile robot localization is the problem of determining a robot's pose in an environment, using sensor data, when the starting position is unknown. A family of probabilistic algorithms known as Monte Carlo Localization (MCL) is currently among the most popular methods for solving this problem. MCL algorithms represent a robot's belief by a set of weighted samples, which approximate the posterior probability of where the robot is located by using a Bayesian formulation of the localization problem. This article presents an extension to the MCL algorithm, which addresses its problems when localizing in highly symmetrical environments; a situation where MCL is often unable to correctly track equally probable poses for the robot. The problem arises from the fact that sample sets in MCL often become impoverished, when samples are generated according to their posterior likelihood. Our approach incorporates the idea of clusters of samples and modifies the proposal distribution considering the probability mass of those clusters. Experimental results are presented that show that this new extension to the MCL algorithm successfully localizes in symmetric environments where ordinary MCL often fails.

Some applications of logic to feasibility in higher types

In this paper we demonstrate that the class of basic feasible functionals has recursion theoretic properties which naturally generalize the corresponding properties of the class of feasible functions. We also improve the Kapron - Cook result on mashine representation of basic feasible functionals. Our proofs are based on essential applications of logic. We introduce a weak fragment of second order arithmetic with second order variables ranging over functions from N into N which suitably characterizes basic feasible functionals, and show that it is a useful tool for investigating the properties of basic feasible functionals. In particular, we provide an example how one can extract feasible "programs" from mathematical proofs which use non-feasible functionals (like second order polynomials).

Optimal Aggregation Algorithms for Middleware

Let D be a database of N objects where each object has m fields. The objects are given in m sorted lists (where the ith list is sorted according to the ith field). Our goal is to find the top k objects according to a monotone aggregation function t, while minimizing access to the lists. The problem arises in several contexts. In particular Fagin (JCSS 1999) considered it for the purpose of aggregating information in a multimedia database system.
We are interested in instance optimality, i.e. that our algorithm will be as good as any other (correct) algorithm on any instance. We provide and analyze several instance optimal algorithms for the task, with various access costs and models.

Sampling Strategies for Mining in Data-Scarce Domains

Data mining has traditionally focused on the task of drawing inferences from large datasets. However, many scientific and engineering domains, such as fluid dynamics and aircraft design, are characterized by scarce data, due to the expense and complexity of associated experiments and simulations. In such data-scarce domains, it is advantageous to focus the data collection effort on only those regions deemed most important to support a particular data mining objective. This paper describes a mechanism that interleaves bottom-up data mining, to uncover multi-level structures in spatial data, with top-down sampling, to clarify difficult decisions in the mining process. The mechanism exploits relevant physical properties, such as continuity, correspondence, and locality, in a unified framework. This leads to effective mining and sampling decisions that are explainable in terms of domain knowledge and data characteristics. This approach is demonstrated in two diverse applications -- mining pockets in spatial data, and qualitative determination of Jordan forms of matrices.

Economic-based Distributed Resource Management and Scheduling for Grid Computing

Computational Grids, emerging as an infrastructure for next generation computing, enable the sharing, selection, and aggregation of geographically distributed resources for solving large-scale problems in science, engineering, and commerce. As the resources in the Grid are heterogeneous and geographically distributed with varying availability and a variety of usage and cost policies for diverse users at different times and, priorities as well as goals that vary with time. The management of resources and application scheduling in such a large and distributed environment is a complex task. This thesis proposes a distributed computational economy as an effective metaphor for the management of resources and application scheduling. It proposes an architectural framework that supports resource trading and quality of services based scheduling. It enables the regulation of supply and demand for resources and provides an incentive for resource owners for participating in the Grid and motives the users to trade-off between the deadline, budget, and the required level of quality of service. The thesis demonstrates the capability of economic-based systems for peer-to-peer distributed computing by developing users' quality-of-service requirements driven scheduling strategies and algorithms. It demonstrates their effectiveness by performing scheduling experiments on the World-Wide Grid for solving parameter sweep applications.

Memory-Based Shallow Parsing

We present memory-based learning approaches to shallow parsing and apply these to five tasks: base noun phrase identification, arbitrary base phrase recognition, clause detection, noun phrase parsing and full parsing. We use feature selection techniques and system combination methods for improving the performance of the memory-based learner. Our approach is evaluated on standard data sets and the results are compared with that of other systems. This reveals that our approach works well for base phrase identification while its application towards recognizing embedded structures leaves some room for improvement.

Computing Homotopic Shortest Paths Efficiently

This paper addresses the problem of finding shortest paths homotopic to a given disjoint set of paths that wind amongst point obstacles in the plane. We present a faster algorithm than previously known.

Parrondo Strategies for Artificial Traders

On markets with receding prices, artificial noise traders may consider alternatives to buy-and-hold. By simulating variations of the Parrondo strategy, using real data from the Swedish stock market, we produce first indications of a buy-low-sell-random Parrondo variation outperforming buy-and-hold. Subject to our assumptions, buy-low-sell-random also outperforms the traditional value and trend investor strategies. We measure the success of the Parrondo variations not only through their performance compared to other kinds of strategies, but also relative to varying levels of perfect information, received through messages within a multi-agent system of artificial traders.

Required sample size for learning sparse Bayesian networks with many variables

Learning joint probability distributions on n random variables requires exponential sample size in the generic case. Here we consider the case that a temporal (or causal) order of the variables is known and that the (unknown) graph of causal dependencies has bounded in-degree Delta. Then the joint measure is uniquely determined by the probabilities of all (2 Delta+1)-tuples. Upper bounds on the sample size required for estimating their probabilities can be given in terms of the VC-dimension of the set of corresponding cylinder sets. The sample size grows less than linearly with n.

Qualitative Analysis of Correspondence for Experimental Algorithmics

Correspondence identifies relationships among objects via similarities among their components; it is ubiquitous in the analysis of spatial datasets, including images, weather maps, and computational simulations. This paper develops a novel multi-level mechanism for qualitative analysis of correspondence. Operators leverage domain knowledge to establish correspondence, evaluate implications for model selection, and leverage identified weaknesses to focus additional data collection. The utility of the mechanism is demonstrated in two applications from experimental algorithmics -- matrix spectral portrait analysis and graphical assessment of Jordan forms of matrices. Results show that the mechanism efficiently samples computational experiments and successfully uncovers high-level problem properties. It overcomes noise and data sparsity by leveraging domain knowledge to detect mutually reinforcing interpretations of spatial data.

Navigating the Small World Web by Textual Cues

Can a Web crawler efficiently locate an unknown relevant page? While this question is receiving much empirical attention due to its considerable commercial value in the search engine community [Cho98,Chakrabarti99,Menczer00,Menczer01], theoretical efforts to bound the performance of focused navigation have only exploited the link structure of the Web graph, neglecting other features [Kleinberg01,Adamic01,Kim02]. Here I investigate the connection between linkage and a content-induced topology of Web pages, suggesting that efficient paths can be discovered by decentralized navigation algorithms based on textual cues.

Intelligent Search of Correlated Alarms for GSM Networks with Model-based Constraints

In order to control the process of data mining and focus on the things of interest to us, many kinds of constraints have been added into the algorithms of data mining. However, discovering the correlated alarms in the alarm database needs deep domain constraints. Because the correlated alarms greatly depend on the logical and physical architecture of networks. Thus we use the network model as the constraints of algorithms, including Scope constraint, Inter-correlated constraint and Intra-correlated constraint, in our proposed algorithm called SMC (Search with Model-based Constraints). The experiments show that the SMC algorithm with Inter-correlated or Intra-correlated constraint is about two times faster than the algorithm with no constraints.

Trading Agents for Roaming Users

Some roaming users need services to manipulate autonomous processes. Trading agents running on agent trade servers are used as a case in point. We present a solution that provides the agent owners with means to upkeeping their desktop environment, and maintaining their agent trade server processes, via a briefcase service.

A Polynomial Description of the Rijndael Advanced Encryption Standard

The paper gives a polynomial description of the Rijndael Advanced Encryption Standard recently adopted by the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Special attention is given to the structure of the S-Box.

The prospects for mathematical logic in the twenty-first century

The four authors present their speculations about the future developments of mathematical logic in the twenty-first century. The areas of recursion theory, proof theory and logic for computer science, model theory, and set theory are discussed independently.

Weaves: A Novel Direct Code Execution Interface for Parallel High Performance Scientific Codes

Scientific codes are increasingly being used in compositional settings, especially problem solving environments (PSEs). Typical compositional modeling frameworks require significant buy-in, in the form of commitment to a particular style of programming (e.g., distributed object components). While this solution is feasible for newer generations of component-based scientific codes, large legacy code bases present a veritable software engineering nightmare. We introduce Weaves a novel framework that enables modeling, composition, direct code execution, performance characterization, adaptation, and control of unmodified high performance scientific codes. Weaves is an efficient generalized framework for parallel compositional modeling that is a proper superset of the threads and processes models of programming. In this paper, our focus is on the transparent code execution interface enabled by Weaves. We identify design constraints, their impact on implementation alternatives, configuration scenarios, and present results from a prototype implementation on Intel x86 architectures.

PSPACE-Completeness of Sliding-Block Puzzles and Other Problems through the Nondeterministic Constraint Logic Model of Computation

We present a nondeterministic model of computation based on reversing edge directions in weighted directed graphs with minimum in-flow constraints on vertices. Deciding whether this simple graph model can be manipulated in order to reverse the direction of a particular edge is shown to be PSPACE-complete by a reduction from Quantified Boolean Formulas. We prove this result in a variety of special cases including planar graphs and highly restricted vertex configurations, some of which correspond to a kind of passive constraint logic. Our framework is inspired by (and indeed a generalization of) the ``Generalized Rush Hour Logic'' developed by Flake and Baum.
We illustrate the importance of our model of computation by giving simple reductions to show that several motion-planning problems are PSPACE-hard. Our main result along these lines is that classic unrestricted sliding-block puzzles are PSPACE-hard, even if the pieces are restricted to be all dominoes (1x2 blocks) and the goal is simply to move a particular piece. No prior complexity results were known about these puzzles. This result can be seen as a strengthening of the existing result that the restricted Rush Hour puzzles are PSPACE-complete, of which we also give a simpler proof. Finally, we strengthen the existing result that the pushing-blocks puzzle Sokoban is PSPACE-complete, by showing that it is PSPACE-complete even if no barriers are allowed.

Unsupervised discovery of morphologically related words based on orthographic and semantic similarity

We present an algorithm that takes an unannotated corpus as its input, and returns a ranked list of probable morphologically related pairs as its output. The algorithm tries to discover morphologically related pairs by looking for pairs that are both orthographically and semantically similar, where orthographic similarity is measured in terms of minimum edit distance, and semantic similarity is measured in terms of mutual information. The procedure does not rely on a morpheme concatenation model, nor on distributional properties of word substrings (such as affix frequency). Experiments with German and English input give encouraging results, both in terms of precision (proportion of good pairs found at various cutoff points of the ranked list), and in terms of a qualitative analysis of the types of morphological patterns discovered by the algorithm.

Mostly-Unsupervised Statistical Segmentation of Japanese Kanji Sequences

Given the lack of word delimiters in written Japanese, word segmentation is generally considered a crucial first step in processing Japanese texts. Typical Japanese segmentation algorithms rely either on a lexicon and syntactic analysis or on pre-segmented data; but these are labor-intensive, and the lexico-syntactic techniques are vulnerable to the unknown word problem. In contrast, we introduce a novel, more robust statistical method utilizing unsegmented training data. Despite its simplicity, the algorithm yields performance on long kanji sequences comparable to and sometimes surpassing that of state-of-the-art morphological analyzers over a variety of error metrics. The algorithm also outperforms another mostly-unsupervised statistical algorithm previously proposed for Chinese.
Additionally, we present a two-level annotation scheme for Japanese to incorporate multiple segmentation granularities, and introduce two novel evaluation metrics, both based on the notion of a compatible bracket, that can account for multiple granularities simultaneously.

Computing stable models: worst-case performance estimates

We study algorithms for computing stable models of propositional logic programs and derive estimates on their worst-case performance that are asymptotically better than the trivial bound of O(m 2^n), where m is the size of an input program and n is the number of its atoms. For instance, for programs, whose clauses consist of at most two literals (counting the head) we design an algorithm to compute stable models that works in time O(m\times 1.44225^n). We present similar results for several broader classes of programs, as well.

Ultimate approximations in nonmonotonic knowledge representation systems

We study fixpoints of operators on lattices. To this end we introduce the notion of an approximation of an operator. We order approximations by means of a precision ordering. We show that each lattice operator O has a unique most precise or ultimate approximation. We demonstrate that fixpoints of this ultimate approximation provide useful insights into fixpoints of the operator O.
We apply our theory to logic programming and introduce the ultimate Kripke-Kleene, well-founded and stable semantics. We show that the ultimate Kripke-Kleene and well-founded semantics are more precise then their standard counterparts We argue that ultimate semantics for logic programming have attractive epistemological properties and that, while in general they are computationally more complex than the standard semantics, for many classes of theories, their complexity is no worse.

Instabilities of Robot Motion

Instabilities of robot motion are caused by topological reasons. In this paper we find a relation between the topological properties of a configuration space (the structure of its cohomology algebra) and the character of instabilities, which are unavoidable in any motion planning algorithm. More specifically, let $X$ denote the space of all admissible configurations of a mechanical system. A {\it motion planner} is given by a splitting $X\times X = F_1\cup F_2\cup ... \cup F_k$ (where $F_1, ..., F_k$ are pairwise disjoint ENRs, see below) and by continuous maps $s_j: F_j \to PX,$ such that $E\circ s_j =1_{F_j}$. Here $PX$ denotes the space of all continuous paths in $X$ (admissible motions of the system) and $E: PX\to X\times X$ denotes the map which assigns to a path the pair of its initial -- end points. Any motion planner determines an algorithm of motion planning for the system. In this paper we apply methods of algebraic topology to study the minimal number of sets $F_j$ in any motion planner in $X$. We also introduce a new notion of {\it order of instability} of a motion planner; it describes the number of essentially distinct motions which may occur as a result of small perturbations of the input data. We find the minimal order of instability, which may have motion planners on a given configuration space $X$. We study a number of specific problems: motion of a rigid body in $\R^3$, a robot arm, motion in $\R^3$ in the presence of obstacles, and others.

From Alife Agents to a Kingdom of N Queens

This paper presents a new approach to solving N-queen problems, which involves a model of distributed autonomous agents with artificial life (ALife) and a method of representing N-queen constraints in an agent environment. The distributed agents locally interact with their living environment, i.e., a chessboard, and execute their reactive behaviors by applying their behavioral rules for randomized motion, least-conflict position searching, and cooperating with other agents etc. The agent-based N-queen problem solving system evolves through selection and contest according to the rule of Survival of the Fittest, in which some agents will die or be eaten if their moving strategies are less efficient than others. The experimental results have shown that this system is capable of solving large-scale N-queen problems. This paper also provides a model of ALife agents for solving general CSPs.

Ellogon: A New Text Engineering Platform

This paper presents Ellogon, a multi-lingual, cross-platform, general-purpose text engineering environment. Ellogon was designed in order to aid both researchers in natural language processing, as well as companies that produce language engineering systems for the end-user. Ellogon provides a powerful TIPSTER-based infrastructure for managing, storing and exchanging textual data, embedding and managing text processing components as well as visualising textual data and their associated linguistic information. Among its key features are full Unicode support, an extensive multi-lingual graphical user interface, its modular architecture and the reduced hardware requirements.

A quasi-RBF technique for numerical discretization of PDE's

Atkinson developed a strategy which splits solution of a PDE system into homogeneous and particular solutions, where the former have to satisfy the boundary and governing equation, while the latter only need to satisfy the governing equation without concerning geometry. Since the particular solution can be solved irrespective of boundary shape, we can use a readily available fast Fourier or orthogonal polynomial technique O(NlogN) to evaluate it in a regular box or sphere surrounding physical domain. The distinction of this study is that we approximate homogeneous solution with nonsingular general solution RBF as in the boundary knot method. The collocation method using general solution RBF has very high accuracy and spectral convergent speed and is a simple, truly meshfree approach for any complicated geometry. More importantly, the use of nonsingular general solution avoids the controversial artificial boundary in the method of fundamental solution due to the singularity of fundamental solution.

An Overview of a Grid Architecture for Scientific Computing

This document gives an overview of a Grid testbed architecture proposal for the NorduGrid project. The aim of the project is to establish an inter-Nordic testbed facility for implementation of wide area computing and data handling. The architecture is supposed to define a Grid system suitable for solving data intensive problems at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. We present the various architecture components needed for such a system. After that we go on to give a description of the dynamics by showing the task flow.

The Traits of the Personable

Information personalization is fertile ground for application of AI techniques. In this article I relate personalization to the ability to capture partial information in an information-seeking interaction. The specific focus is on personalizing interactions at web sites. Using ideas from partial evaluation and explanation-based generalization, I present a modeling methodology for reasoning about personalization. This approach helps identify seven tiers of `personable traits' in web sites.

Performance evaluation of the GridFTP within the NorduGrid project

This report presents results of the tests measuring the performance of multi-threaded file transfers, using the GridFTP implementation of the Globus project over the NorduGrid network resources. Point to point WAN tests, carried out between the sites of Copenhagen, Lund, Oslo and Uppsala, are described. It was found that multiple threaded download via the high performance GridFTP protocol can significantly improve file transfer performance, and can serve as a reliable data

Bootstrapping Structure into Language: Alignment-Based Learning

This thesis introduces a new unsupervised learning framework, called Alignment-Based Learning, which is based on the alignment of sentences and Harris's (1951) notion of substitutability. Instances of the framework can be applied to an untagged, unstructured corpus of natural language sentences, resulting in a labelled, bracketed version of that corpus.
Firstly, the framework aligns all sentences in the corpus in pairs, resulting in a partition of the sentences consisting of parts of the sentences that are equal in both sentences and parts that are unequal. Unequal parts of sentences can be seen as being substitutable for each other, since substituting one unequal part for the other results in another valid sentence. The unequal parts of the sentences are thus considered to be possible (possibly overlapping) constituents, called hypotheses.
Secondly, the selection learning phase considers all hypotheses found by the alignment learning phase and selects the best of these. The hypotheses are selected based on the order in which they were found, or based on a probabilistic function.
The framework can be extended with a grammar extraction phase. This extended framework is called parseABL. Instead of returning a structured version of the unstructured input corpus, like the ABL system, this system also returns a stochastic context-free or tree substitution grammar.
Different instances of the framework have been tested on the English ATIS corpus, the Dutch OVIS corpus and the Wall Street Journal corpus. One of the interesting results, apart from the encouraging numerical results, is that all instances can (and do) learn recursive structures.

Monads for natural language semantics

Accounts of semantic phenomena often involve extending types of meanings and revising composition rules at the same time. The concept of monads allows many such accounts -- for intensionality, variable binding, quantification and focus -- to be stated uniformly and compositionally.

A variable-free dynamic semantics

I propose a variable-free treatment of dynamic semantics. By "dynamic semantics" I mean analyses of donkey sentences ("Every farmer who owns a donkey beats it") and other binding and anaphora phenomena in natural language where meanings of constituents are updates to information states, for instance as proposed by Groenendijk and Stokhof. By "variable-free" I mean denotational semantics in which functional combinators replace variable indices and assignment functions, for instance as advocated by Jacobson.
The new theory presented here achieves a compositional treatment of dynamic anaphora that does not involve assignment functions, and separates the combinatorics of variable-free semantics from the particular linguistic phenomena it treats. Integrating variable-free semantics and dynamic semantics gives rise to interactions that make new empirical predictions, for example "donkey weak crossover" effects.

NLTK: The Natural Language Toolkit

NLTK, the Natural Language Toolkit, is a suite of open source program modules, tutorials and problem sets, providing ready-to-use computational linguistics courseware. NLTK covers symbolic and statistical natural language processing, and is interfaced to annotated corpora. Students augment and replace existing components, learn structured programming by example, and manipulate sophisticated models from the outset.

Three-Tiered Specification of Micro-Architectures

A three-tiered specification approach is developed to formally specify collections of collaborating objects, say micro-architectures. (i) The structural properties to be maintained in the collaboration are specified in the lowest tier. (ii) The behaviour of the object methods in the classes is specified in the middle tier. (iii) The interaction of the objects in the micro-architecture is specified in the third tier. The specification approach is based on Larch and accompanying notations and tools. The approach enables the unambiguous and complete specification of reusable collections of collaborating objects. The layered, formal approach is compared to other approaches including the mainstream UML approach.

Sotto Voce: Exploring the Interplay of Conversation and Mobile Audio Spaces

In addition to providing information to individual visitors, electronic guidebooks have the potential to facilitate social interaction between visitors and their companions. However, many systems impede visitor interaction. By contrast, our electronic guidebook, Sotto Voce, has social interaction as a primary design goal. The system enables visitors to share audio information - specifically, they can hear each other's guidebook activity using a technologically mediated audio eavesdropping mechanism. We conducted a study of visitors using Sotto Voce while touring a historic house. The results indicate that visitors are able to use the system effectively, both as a conversational resource and as an information appliance. More surprisingly, our results suggest that the technologically mediated audio often cohered the visitors' conversation and activity to a far greater degree than audio delivered through the open air.

Eavesdropping on Electronic Guidebooks: Observing Learning Resources in Shared Listening Environments

We describe an electronic guidebook, Sotto Voce, that enables visitors to share audio information by eavesdropping on each other's guidebook activity. We have conducted three studies of visitors using electronic guidebooks in a historic house: one study with open air audio played through speakers and two studies with eavesdropped audio. An analysis of visitor interaction in these studies suggests that eavesdropped audio provides more social and interactive learning resources than open air audio played through speakers.

Practical Strategies for Integrating a Conversation Analyst in an Iterative Design Process

We present a case study of an iterative design process that includes a conversation analyst. We discuss potential benefits of conversation analysis for design, and we describe our strategies for integrating the conversation analyst in the design process. Since the analyst on our team had no previous exposure to design or engineering, and none of the other members of our team had any experience with conversation analysis, we needed to build a foundation for our interaction. One of our key strategies was to pair the conversation analyst with a designer in a highly interactive collaboration. Our tactics have been effective on our project, leading to valuable results that we believe we could not have obtained using another method. We hope that this paper can serve as a practical guide to those interested in establishing a productive and efficient working relationship between a conversation analyst and the other members of a design team.

Parameterized Intractability of Motif Search Problems

We show that Closest Substring, one of the most important problems in the field of biological sequence analysis, is W[1]-hard when parameterized by the number k of input strings (and remains so, even over a binary alphabet). This problem is therefore unlikely to be solvable in time O(f(k)\cdot n^{c}) for any function f of k and constant c independent of k. The problem can therefore be expected to be intractable, in any practical sense, for k>=3. Our result supports the intuition that Closest Substring is computationally much harder than the special case of Closest String, although both problems are NP-complete. We also prove W[1]-hardness for other parameterizations in the case of unbounded alphabet size. Our W[1]-hardness result for Closest Substring generalizes to Consensus Patterns, a problem of similar significance in computational biology.

Unsupervised Discovery of Morphemes

We present two methods for unsupervised segmentation of words into morpheme-like units. The model utilized is especially suited for languages with a rich morphology, such as Finnish. The first method is based on the Minimum Description Length (MDL) principle and works online. In the second method, Maximum Likelihood (ML) optimization is used. The quality of the segmentations is measured using an evaluation method that compares the segmentations produced to an existing morphological analysis. Experiments on both Finnish and English corpora show that the presented methods perform well compared to a current state-of-the-art system.

Content Distribution in Unicast Replica Meshes

We propose centralized algorithm of data distribution in the unicast p2p network. Good example of such networks are meshes of WWW and FTP mirrors. Simulation of data propogation for different network topologies is performed and it is shown that proposed method performs up to 200% better then common apporaches

A Connection-Centric Survey of Recommender Systems Research

Recommender systems attempt to reduce information overload and retain customers by selecting a subset of items from a universal set based on user preferences. While research in recommender systems grew out of information retrieval and filtering, the topic has steadily advanced into a legitimate and challenging research area of its own. Recommender systems have traditionally been studied from a content-based filtering vs. collaborative design perspective. Recommendations, however, are not delivered within a vacuum, but rather cast within an informal community of users and social context. Therefore, ultimately all recommender systems make connections among people and thus should be surveyed from such a perspective. This viewpoint is under-emphasized in the recommender systems literature. We therefore take a connection-oriented viewpoint toward recommender systems research. We posit that recommendation has an inherently social element and is ultimately intended to connect people either directly as a result of explicit user modeling or indirectly through the discovery of relationships implicit in extant data. Thus, recommender systems are characterized by how they model users to bring people together: explicitly or implicitly. Finally, user modeling and the connection-centric viewpoint raise broadening and social issues--such as evaluation, targeting, and privacy and trust--which we also briefly address.

Optimizing Queries Using a Meta-level Database

Graph simulation (using graph schemata or data guides) has been successfully proposed as a technique for adding structure to semistructured data. Design patterns for description (such as meta-classes and homomorphisms between schema layers), which are prominent in the object-oriented programming community, constitute a generalization of this graph simulation approach.
In this paper, we show description applicable to a wide range of data models that have some notion of object (-identity), and propose to turn it into a data model primitive much like, say, inheritance. We argue that such an extension fills a practical need in contemporary data management. Then, we present algebraic techniques for query optimization (using the notions of described and description queries). Finally, in the semistructured setting, we discuss the pruning of regular path queries (with nested conditions) using description meta-data. In this context, our notion of meta-data extends graph schemata and data guides by meta-level values, allowing to boost query performance and to reduce the redundancy of data.

Aging, double helix and small world property in genetic algorithms

Over a quarter of century after the invention of genetic algorithms and miriads of their modifications, as well as successful implementations, we are still lacking many essential details of thorough analysis of it's inner working. One of such fundamental questions is: how many generations do we need to solve the optimization problem? This paper tries to answer this question, albeit in a fuzzy way, making use of the double helix concept. As a byproduct we gain better understanding of the ways, in which the genetic algorithm may be fine tuned.

Distance function wavelets - Part II: Extended results and conjectures

Report II is concerned with the extended results of distance function wavelets (DFW). The fractional DFW transforms are first addressed relating to the fractal geometry and fractional derivative, and then, the discrete Helmholtz-Fourier transform is briefly presented. The Green second identity may be an alternative devise in developing the theoretical framework of the DFW transform and series. The kernel solutions of the Winkler plate equation and the Burger's equation are used to create the DFW transforms and series. Most interestingly, it is found that the translation invariant monomial solutions of the high-order Laplace equations can be used to make very simple harmonic polynomial DFW series. In most cases of this study, solid mathematical analysis is missing and results are obtained intuitively in the conjecture status.

Bootstrapping Lexical Choice via Multiple-Sequence Alignment

An important component of any generation system is the mapping dictionary, a lexicon of elementary semantic expressions and corresponding natural language realizations. Typically, labor-intensive knowledge-based methods are used to construct the dictionary. We instead propose to acquire it automatically via a novel multiple-pass algorithm employing multiple-sequence alignment, a technique commonly used in bioinformatics. Crucially, our method leverages latent information contained in multi-parallel corpora -- datasets that supply several verbalizations of the corresponding semantics rather than just one.
We used our techniques to generate natural language versions of computer-generated mathematical proofs, with good results on both a per-component and overall-output basis. For example, in evaluations involving a dozen human judges, our system produced output whose readability and faithfulness to the semantic input rivaled that of a traditional generation system.

Effectiveness of Preference Elicitation in Combinatorial Auctions

Combinatorial auctions where agents can bid on bundles of items are desirable because they allow the agents to express complementarity and substitutability between the items. However, expressing one's preferences can require bidding on all bundles. Selective incremental preference elicitation by the auctioneer was recently proposed to address this problem (Conen & Sandholm 2001), but the idea was not evaluated. In this paper we show, experimentally and theoretically, that automated elicitation provides a drastic benefit. In all of the elicitation schemes under study, as the number of items for sale increases, the amount of information elicited is a vanishing fraction of the information collected in traditional ``direct revelation mechanisms'' where bidders reveal all their valuation information. Most of the elicitation schemes also maintain the benefit as the number of agents increases. We develop more effective elicitation policies for existing query types. We also present a new query type that takes the incremental nature of elicitation to a new level by allowing agents to give approximate answers that are refined only on an as-needed basis. In the process, we present methods for evaluating different types of elicitation policies.

Evaluating the Effectiveness of Ensembles of Decision Trees in Disambiguating Senseval Lexical Samples

This paper presents an evaluation of an ensemble--based system that participated in the English and Spanish lexical sample tasks of Senseval-2. The system combines decision trees of unigrams, bigrams, and co--occurrences into a single classifier. The analysis is extended to include the Senseval-1 data.

Assessing System Agreement and Instance Difficulty in the Lexical Sample Tasks of Senseval-2

This paper presents a comparative evaluation among the systems that participated in the Spanish and English lexical sample tasks of Senseval-2. The focus is on pairwise comparisons among systems to assess the degree to which they agree, and on measuring the difficulty of the test instances included in these tasks.

Machine Learning with Lexical Features: The Duluth Approach to Senseval-2

This paper describes the sixteen Duluth entries in the Senseval-2 comparative exercise among word sense disambiguation systems. There were eight pairs of Duluth systems entered in the Spanish and English lexical sample tasks. These are all based on standard machine learning algorithms that induce classifiers from sense-tagged training text where the context in which ambiguous words occur are represented by simple lexical features. These are highly portable, robust methods that can serve as a foundation for more tailored approaches.

Thumbs up? Sentiment Classification using Machine Learning Techniques

We consider the problem of classifying documents not by topic, but by overall sentiment, e.g., determining whether a review is positive or negative. Using movie reviews as data, we find that standard machine learning techniques definitively outperform human-produced baselines. However, the three machine learning methods we employed (Naive Bayes, maximum entropy classification, and support vector machines) do not perform as well on sentiment classification as on traditional topic-based categorization. We conclude by examining factors that make the sentiment classification problem more challenging.

A Scalable Architecture for Harvest-Based Digital Libraries - The ODU/Southampton Experiments

This paper discusses the requirements of current and emerging applications based on the Open Archives Initiative (OAI) and emphasizes the need for a common infrastructure to support them. Inspired by HTTP proxy, cache, gateway and web service concepts, a design for a scalable and reliable infrastructure that aims at satisfying these requirements is presented. Moreover it is shown how various applications can exploit the services included in the proposed infrastructure. The paper concludes by discussing the current status of several prototype implementations.

Vote Elicitation: Complexity and Strategy-Proofness

Preference elicitation is a central problem in AI, and has received significant attention in single-agent settings. It is also a key problem in multiagent systems, but has received little attention here so far. In this setting, the agents may have different preferences that often must be aggregated using voting. This leads to interesting issues because what, if any, information should be elicited from an agent depends on what other agents have revealed about their preferences so far.
In this paper we study effective elicitation, and its impediments, for the most common voting protocols. It turns out that in the Single Transferable Vote protocol, even knowing when to terminate elicitation is mathcal NP-complete, while this is easy for all the other protocols under study. Even for these protocols, determining how to elicit effectively is NP-complete, even with perfect suspicions about how the agents will vote. The exception is the Plurality protocol where such effective elicitation is easy.
We also show that elicitation introduces additional opportunities for strategic manipulation by the voters. We demonstrate how to curtail the space of elicitation schemes so that no such additional strategic issues arise.

Complexity Results about Nash Equilibria

Noncooperative game theory provides a normative framework for analyzing strategic interactions. However, for the toolbox to be operational, the solutions it defines will have to be computed. In this paper, we provide a single reduction that 1) demonstrates NP-hardness of determining whether Nash equilibria with certain natural properties exist, and 2) demonstrates the #P-hardness of counting Nash equilibria (or connected sets of Nash equilibria). We also show that 3) determining whether a pure-strategy Bayes-Nash equilibrium exists is NP-hard, and that 4) determining whether a pure-strategy Nash equilibrium exists in a stochastic (Markov) game is PSPACE-hard even if the game is invisible (this remains NP-hard if the game is finite). All of our hardness results hold even if there are only two players and the game is symmetric.
Keywords: Nash equilibrium; game theory; computational complexity; noncooperative game theory; normal form game; stochastic game; Markov game; Bayes-Nash equilibrium; multiagent systems.

Complexity of Mechanism Design

The aggregation of conflicting preferences is a central problem in multiagent systems. The key difficulty is that the agents may report their preferences insincerely. Mechanism design is the art of designing the rules of the game so that the agents are motivated to report their preferences truthfully and a (socially) desirable outcome is chosen. We propose an approach where a mechanism is automatically created for the preference aggregation setting at hand. This has several advantages, but the downside is that the mechanism design optimization problem needs to be solved anew each time. Focusing on settings where side payments are not possible, we show that the mechanism design problem is NP-complete for deterministic mechanisms. This holds both for dominant-strategy implementation and for Bayes-Nash implementation. We then show that if we allow randomized mechanisms, the mechanism design problem becomes tractable. In other words, the coordinator can tackle the computational complexity introduced by its uncertainty about the agents' preferences by making the agents face additional uncertainty. This comes at no loss, and in some cases at a gain, in the (social) objective.

A Spectrum of Applications of Automated Reasoning

The likelihood of an automated reasoning program being of substantial assistance for a wide spectrum of applications rests with the nature of the options and parameters it offers on which to base needed strategies and methodologies. This article focuses on such a spectrum, featuring W. McCune's program OTTER, discussing widely varied successes in answering open questions, and touching on some of the strategies and methodologies that played a key role. The applications include finding a first proof, discovering single axioms, locating improved axiom systems, and simplifying existing proofs. The last application is directly pertinent to the recently found (by R. Thiele) Hilbert's twenty-fourth problem--which is extremely amenable to attack with the appropriate automated reasoning program--a problem concerned with proof simplification. The methodologies include those for seeking shorter proofs and for finding proofs that avoid unwanted lemmas or classes of term, a specific option for seeking proofs with smaller equational or formula complexity, and a different option to address the variable richness of a proof. The type of proof one obtains with the use of OTTER is Hilbert-style axiomatic, including details that permit one sometimes to gain new insights. We include questions still open and challenges that merit consideration.

Connectives in Quantum and other Cumulative Logics

Cumulative logics are studied in an abstract setting, i.e., without connectives, very much in the spirit of Makinson's early work. A powerful representation theorem characterizes those logics by choice functions that satisfy a weakening of Sen's property alpha, in the spirit of the author's "Nonmonotonic Logics and Semantics" (JLC). The representation results obtained are surprisingly smooth: in the completeness part the choice function may be defined on any set of worlds, not only definable sets and no definability-preservation property is required in the soundness part. For abstract cumulative logics, proper conjunction and negation may be defined. Contrary to the situation studied in "Nonmonotonic Logics and Semantics" no proper disjunction seems to be definable in general. The cumulative relations of KLM that satisfy some weakening of the consistency preservation property all define cumulative logics with a proper negation. Quantum Logics, as defined by Engesser and Gabbay are such cumulative logics but the negation defined by orthogonal complement does not provide a proper negation.

Transforming the World Wide Web into a Complexity-Based Semantic Network

The aim of this paper is to introduce the idea of the Semantic Web to the Complexity community and set a basic ground for a project resulting in creation of Internet-based semantic network of Complexity-related information providers. Implementation of the Semantic Web technology would be of mutual benefit to both the participants and users and will confirm self-referencing power of the community to apply the products of its own research to itself. We first explain the logic of the transition and discuss important notions associated with the Semantic Web technology. We then present a brief outline of the project milestones.

Neural Net Model for Featured Word Extraction

Search engines perform the task of retrieving information related to the user-supplied query words. This task has two parts; one is finding "featured words" which describe an article best and the other is finding a match among these words to user-defined search terms. There are two main independent approaches to achieve this task. The first one, using the concepts of semantics, has been implemented partially. For more details see another paper of Marko et al., 2002. The second approach is reported in this paper. It is a theoretical model based on using Neural Network (NN). Instead of using keywords or reading from the first few lines from papers/articles, the present model gives emphasis on extracting "featured words" from an article. Obviously we propose to exclude prepositions, articles and so on, that is, English words like "of, the, are, so, therefore, " etc. from such a list. A neural model is taken with its nodes pre-assigned energies. Whenever a match is found with featured words and userdefined search words, the node is fired and jumps to a higher energy. This firing continues until the model attains a steady energy level and total energy is now calculated. Clearly, higher match will generate higher energy; so on the basis of total energy, a ranking is done to the article indicating degree of relevance to the user's interest. Another important feature of the proposed model is incorporating a semantic module to refine the search words; like finding association among search words, etc. In this manner, information retrieval can be improved markedly.

Building Space-Time Meshes over Arbitrary Spatial Domains

We present an algorithm to construct meshes suitable for space-time discontinuous Galerkin finite-element methods. Our method generalizes and improves the `Tent Pitcher' algorithm of Üngör and Sheffer. Given an arbitrary simplicially meshed domain M of any dimension and a time interval [0,T], our algorithm builds a simplicial mesh of the space-time domain Mx[0,T], in constant time per element. Our algorithm avoids the limitations of previous methods by carefully adapting the durations of space-time elements to the local quality and feature size of the underlying space mesh.

Handling Defeasibilities in Action Domains

Representing defeasibility is an important issue in common sense reasoning. In reasoning about action and change, this issue becomes more difficult because domain and action related defeasible information may conflict with general inertia rules. Furthermore, different types of defeasible information may also interfere with each other during the reasoning. In this paper, we develop a prioritized logic programming approach to handle defeasibilities in reasoning about action. In particular, we propose three action languages {\cal AT}^{0}, {\cal AT}^{1} and {\cal AT}^{2} which handle three types of defeasibilities in action domains named defeasible constraints, defeasible observations and actions with defeasible and abnormal effects respectively. Each language with a higher superscript can be viewed as an extension of the language with a lower superscript. These action languages inherit the simple syntax of {\cal A} language but their semantics is developed in terms of transition systems where transition functions are defined based on prioritized logic programs. By illustrating various examples, we show that our approach eventually provides a powerful mechanism to handle various defeasibilities in temporal prediction and postdiction. We also investigate semantic properties of these three action languages and characterize classes of action domains that present more desirable solutions in reasoning about action within the underlying action languages.

Mining All Non-Derivable Frequent Itemsets

Recent studies on frequent itemset mining algorithms resulted in significant performance improvements. However, if the minimal support threshold is set too low, or the data is highly correlated, the number of frequent itemsets itself can be prohibitively large. To overcome this problem, recently several proposals have been made to construct a concise representation of the frequent itemsets, instead of mining all frequent itemsets. The main goal of this paper is to identify redundancies in the set of all frequent itemsets and to exploit these redundancies in order to reduce the result of a mining operation. We present deduction rules to derive tight bounds on the support of candidate itemsets. We show how the deduction rules allow for constructing a minimal representation for all frequent itemsets. We also present connections between our proposal and recent proposals for concise representations and we give the results of experiments on real-life datasets that show the effectiveness of the deduction rules. In fact, the experiments even show that in many cases, first mining the concise representation, and then creating the frequent itemsets from this representation outperforms existing frequent set mining algorithms.

Characterization of Strongly Equivalent Logic Programs in Intermediate Logics

The non-classical, nonmonotonic inference relation associated with the answer set semantics for logic programs gives rise to a relationship of 'strong equivalence' between logical programs that can be verified in 3-valued Goedel logic, G3, the strongest non-classical intermediate propositional logic (Lifschitz, Pearce and Valverde, 2001). In this paper we will show that KC (the logic obtained by adding axiom ~A v ~~A to intuitionistic logic), is the weakest intermediate logic for which strongly equivalent logic programs, in a language allowing negations, are logically equivalent.

Using the Annotated Bibliography as a Resource for Indicative Summarization

We report on a language resource consisting of 2000 annotated bibliography entries, which is being analyzed as part of our research on indicative document summarization. We show how annotated bibliographies cover certain aspects of summarization that have not been well-covered by other summary corpora, and motivate why they constitute an important form to study for information retrieval. We detail our methodology for collecting the corpus, and overview our document feature markup that we introduced to facilitate summary analysis. We present the characteristics of the corpus, methods of collection, and show its use in finding the distribution of types of information included in indicative summaries and their relative ordering within the summaries.

Computer modeling of feelings and emotions: a quantitative neural network model of the feeling-of-knowing

The first quantitative neural network model of feelings and emotions is proposed on the base of available data on their neuroscience and evolutionary biology nature, and on a neural network human memory model which admits distinct description of conscious and unconscious mental processes in a time dependent manner. As an example, proposed model is applied to quantitative description of the feeling of knowing.

Fast Deterministic Consensus in a Noisy Environment

It is well known that the consensus problem cannot be solved deterministically in an asynchronous environment, but that randomized solutions are possible. We propose a new model, called noisy scheduling, in which an adversarial schedule is perturbed randomly, and show that in this model randomness in the environment can substitute for randomness in the algorithm. In particular, we show that a simplified, deterministic version of Chandra's wait-free shared-memory consensus algorithm (PODC, 1996, pp. 166-175) solves consensus in time at most logarithmic in the number of active processes. The proof of termination is based on showing that a race between independent delayed renewal processes produces a winner quickly. In addition, we show that the protocol finishes in constant time using quantum and priority-based scheduling on a uniprocessor, suggesting that it is robust against the choice of model over a wide range.

High-order fundamental and general solutions of convection-diffusion equation and their applications with boundary particle method

In this study, we presented the high-order fundamental solutions and general solutions of convection-diffusion equation. To demonstrate their efficacy, we applied the high-order general solutions to the boundary particle method (BPM) for the solution of some inhomogeneous convection-diffusion problems, where the BPM is a new truly boundary-only meshfree collocation method based on multiple reciprocity principle. For the sake of completeness, the BPM is also briefly described here.

A Method for Open-Vocabulary Speech-Driven Text Retrieval

While recent retrieval techniques do not limit the number of index terms, out-of-vocabulary (OOV) words are crucial in speech recognition. Aiming at retrieving information with spoken queries, we fill the gap between speech recognition and text retrieval in terms of the vocabulary size. Given a spoken query, we generate a transcription and detect OOV words through speech recognition. We then correspond detected OOV words to terms indexed in a target collection to complete the transcription, and search the collection for documents relevant to the completed transcription. We show the effectiveness of our method by way of experiments.

Japanese/English Cross-Language Information Retrieval: Exploration of Query Translation and Transliteration

Cross-language information retrieval (CLIR), where queries and documents are in different languages, has of late become one of the major topics within the information retrieval community. This paper proposes a Japanese/English CLIR system, where we combine a query translation and retrieval modules. We currently target the retrieval of technical documents, and therefore the performance of our system is highly dependent on the quality of the translation of technical terms. However, the technical term translation is still problematic in that technical terms are often compound words, and thus new terms are progressively created by combining existing base words. In addition, Japanese often represents loanwords based on its special phonogram. Consequently, existing dictionaries find it difficult to achieve sufficient coverage. To counter the first problem, we produce a Japanese/English dictionary for base words, and translate compound words on a word-by-word basis. We also use a probabilistic method to resolve translation ambiguity. For the second problem, we use a transliteration method, which corresponds words unlisted in the base word dictionary to their phonetic equivalents in the target language. We evaluate our system using a test collection for CLIR, and show that both the compound word translation and transliteration methods improve the system performance.

Distance function wavelets - Part III: "Exotic" transforms and series

Part III of the reports consists of various unconventional distance function wavelets (DFW). The dimension and the order of partial differential equation (PDE) are first used as a substitute of the scale parameter in the DFW transforms and series, especially with the space and time-space potential problems. It is noted that the recursive multiple reciprocity formulation is the DFW series. The Green second identity is used to avoid the singularity of the zero-order fundamental solution in creating the DFW series. The fundamental solutions of various composite PDEs are found very flexible and efficient to handle a borad range of problems. We also discuss the underlying connections between the crucial concepts of dimension, scale and the order of PDE through the analysis of dissipative acoustic wave propagation. The shape parameter of the potential problems is also employed as the "scale parameter" to create the non-orthogonal DFW. This paper also briefly discusses and conjectures the DFW correspondences of a variety of coordinate variable transforms and series. Practically important, the anisotropic and inhomogeneous DFW's are developed by using the geodesic distance variable. The DFW and the related basis functions are also used in making the kernel distance sigmoidal functions, which are potentially useful in the artificial neural network and machine learning. As or even worse than the preceding two reports, this study scarifies mathematical rigor and in turn unfetter imagination. Most results are intuitively obtained without rigorous analysis. Follow-up research is still under way. The paper is intended to inspire more research into this promising area.

The Prioritized Inductive Logic Programs

The limit behavior of inductive logic programs has not been explored, but when considering incremental or online inductive learning algorithms which usually run ongoingly, such behavior of the programs should be taken into account. An example is given to show that some inductive learning algorithm may not be correct in the long run if the limit behavior is not considered. An inductive logic program is convergent if given an increasing sequence of example sets, the program produces a corresponding sequence of the Horn logic programs which has the set-theoretic limit, and is limit-correct if the limit of the produced sequence of the Horn logic programs is correct with respect to the limit of the sequence of the example sets. It is shown that the GOLEM system is not limit-correct. Finally, a limit-correct inductive logic system, called the prioritized GOLEM system, is proposed as a solution.

On Simultaneous Graph Embedding

We consider the problem of simultaneous embedding of planar graphs. There are two variants of this problem, one in which the mapping between the vertices of the two graphs is given and another where the mapping is not given. In particular, we show that without mapping, any number of outerplanar graphs can be embedded simultaneously on an $O(n)\times O(n)$ grid, and an outerplanar and general planar graph can be embedded simultaneously on an $O(n^2)\times O(n^3)$ grid. If the mapping is given, we show how to embed two paths on an $n \times n$ grid, a caterpillar and a path on an $n \times 2n$ grid, or two caterpillar graphs on an $O(n^2)\times O(n^3)$ grid. We also show that 5 paths, or 3 caterpillars, or two general planar graphs cannot be simultaneously embedded given the mapping.

Simultaneous Embedding of a Planar Graph and Its Dual on the Grid

Traditional representations of graphs and their duals suggest the requirement that the dual vertices be placed inside their corresponding primal faces, and the edges of the dual graph cross only their corresponding primal edges. We consider the problem of simultaneously embedding a planar graph and its dual into a small integer grid such that the edges are drawn as straight-line segments and the only crossings are between primal-dual pairs of edges. We provide a linear-time algorithm that simultaneously embeds a 3-connected planar graph and its dual on a (2n-2) by (2n-2) integer grid, where n is the total number of vertices in the graph and its dual. Furthermore our embedding algorithm satisfies the two natural requirements mentioned above.

Multidimensional Network Monitoring for Intrusion Detection

An approach for real-time network monitoring in terms of numerical time-dependant functions of protocol parameters is suggested. Applying complex systems theory for information f{l}ow analysis of networks, the information traffic is described as a trajectory in multi-dimensional parameter-time space with about 10-12 dimensions. The network traffic description is synthesized by applying methods of theoretical physics and complex systems theory, to provide a robust approach for network monitoring that detects known intrusions, and supports developing real systems for detection of unknown intrusions. The methods of data analysis and pattern recognition presented are the basis of a technology study for an automatic intrusion detection system that detects the attack in the reconnaissance stage.

The analysis of the IFPUG method sensitivity

J. Albrecht`s Function Point Analysis (FPA) is a method to determine the functional size of software products. An organization called International Function Point Users Group (IPFUG), considers the FPA as a standard in the software functional size measurement. The Albrechts method is followed by IPFUG method which includes some modifications in order to improve it. A limitation of the method refers to the fact that FPA is not sensitive enough to differentiate the functional size in small enhancements. That affects the productivity analysis, where the software product functional size is required. To provide more power to the functional size measurement, A. Abran, M. Maya and H. Nguyeckim have proposed some modifications to improve it. The IPFUG v 4.1 method which includes these modifications is named IFPUG v 4.1 extended. In this work we set the conditions to delimiting granular from non granular functions and we calculate the static calibration and sensitivity graphs for the measurements of a set of projects with a high percentage of granular functions, all of then measured with the IFPUG v 4.1 method and the IFPUG v 4.1 extended. Finally, we introduce a statistic analysis in order to determine whether significant differences exist between both methods or not.

The Fastest and Shortest Algorithm for All Well-Defined Problems

An algorithm $M$ is described that solves any well-defined problem $p$ as quickly as the fastest algorithm computing a solution to $p$, save for a factor of 5 and low-order additive terms. $M$ optimally distributes resources between the execution of provably correct $p$-solving programs and an enumeration of all proofs, including relevant proofs of program correctness and of time bounds on program runtimes. $M$ avoids Blum's speed-up theorem by ignoring programs without correctness proof. $M$ has broader applicability and can be faster than Levin's universal search, the fastest method for inverting functions save for a large multiplicative constant. An extension of Kolmogorov complexity and two novel natural measures of function complexity are used to show that the most efficient program computing some function $f$ is also among the shortest programs provably computing $f$.

Relational Association Rules: getting WARMeR

In recent years, the problem of association rule mining in transactional data has been well studied. We propose to extend the discovery of classical association rules to the discovery of association rules of conjunctive queries in arbitrary relational data, inspired by the WARMR algorithm, developed by Dehaspe and Toivonen, that discovers association rules over a limited set of conjunctive queries. Conjunctive query evaluation in relational databases is well understood, but still poses some great challenges when approached from a discovery viewpoint in which patterns are generated and evaluated with respect to some well defined search space and pruning operators.

Sierpinski Gaskets for Logic Functions Representation

This paper introduces a new approach to represent logic functions in the form of Sierpinski Gaskets. The structure of the gasket allows to manipulate with the corresponding logic expression using recursive essence of fractals. Thus, the Sierpinski gasket's pattern has myriad useful properties which can enhance practical features of other graphic representations like decision diagrams. We have covered possible applications of Sierpinski gaskets in logic design and justified our assumptions in logic function minimization (both Boolean and multiple-valued cases). The experimental results on benchmarks with advances in the novel structure are considered as well.

Interleaved semantic interpretation in environment-based parsing

This paper extends a polynomial-time parsing algorithm that resolves structural ambiguity in input to a speech-based user interface by calculating and comparing the denotations of rival constituents, given some model of the interfaced application environment (Schuler 2001). The algorithm is extended to incorporate a full set of logical operators, including quantifiers and conjunctions, into this calculation without increasing the complexity of the overall algorithm beyond polynomial time, both in terms of the length of the input and the number of entities in the environment model.

Behaviour-based Knowledge Systems: An Epigenetic Path from Behaviour to Knowledge

In this paper we expose the theoretical background underlying our current research. This consists in the development of behaviour-based knowledge systems, for closing the gaps between behaviour-based and knowledge-based systems, and also between the understandings of the phenomena they model. We expose the requirements and stages for developing behaviour-based knowledge systems and discuss their limits. We believe that these are necessary conditions for the development of higher order cognitive capacities, in artificial and natural cognitive systems.

Computer-Generated Photorealistic Hair

This paper presents an efficient method for generating and rendering photorealistic hair in two dimensional pictures. The method consists of three major steps. Simulating an artist drawing is used to design the rough hair shape. A convolution based filter is then used to generate photorealistic hair patches. A refine procedure is finally used to blend the boundaries of the patches with surrounding areas. This method can be used to create all types of photorealistic human hair (head hair, facial hair and body hair). It is also suitable for fur and grass generation. Applications of this method include: hairstyle designing/editing, damaged hair image restoration, human hair animation, virtual makeover of a human, and landscape creation.

A Probabilistic Method for Analyzing Japanese Anaphora Integrating Zero Pronoun Detection and Resolution

This paper proposes a method to analyze Japanese anaphora, in which zero pronouns (omitted obligatory cases) are used to refer to preceding entities (antecedents). Unlike the case of general coreference resolution, zero pronouns have to be detected prior to resolution because they are not expressed in discourse. Our method integrates two probability parameters to perform zero pronoun detection and resolution in a single framework. The first parameter quantifies the degree to which a given case is a zero pronoun. The second parameter quantifies the degree to which a given entity is the antecedent for a detected zero pronoun. To compute these parameters efficiently, we use corpora with/without annotations of anaphoric relations. We show the effectiveness of our method by way of experiments.

A correct proof of the heuristic GCD algorithm

In this note, we fill a gap in the proof of the heuristic GCD in the multivariate case made by Char, Geddes and Gonnet (JSC 1989) and give some additionnal information on this method.

Algorithms for Media

Falmagne recently introduced the concept of a medium, a combinatorial object encompassing hyperplane arrangements, topological orderings, acyclic orientations, and many other familiar structures. We find efficient solutions for several algorithmic problems on media: finding short reset sequences, shortest paths, testing whether a medium has a closed orientation, and listing the states of a medium given a black-box description.

Applying a Hybrid Query Translation Method to Japanese/English Cross-Language Patent Retrieval

This paper applies an existing query translation method to cross-language patent retrieval. In our method, multiple dictionaries are used to derive all possible translations for an input query, and collocational statistics are used to resolve translation ambiguity. We used Japanese/English parallel patent abstracts to perform comparative experiments, where our method outperformed a simple dictionary-based query translation method, and achieved 76% of monolingual retrieval in terms of average precision.

PRIME: A System for Multi-lingual Patent Retrieval

Given the growing number of patents filed in multiple countries, users are interested in retrieving patents across languages. We propose a multi-lingual patent retrieval system, which translates a user query into the target language, searches a multilingual database for patents relevant to the query, and improves the browsing efficiency by way of machine translation and clustering. Our system also extracts new translations from patent families consisting of comparable patents, to enhance the translation dictionary.

Speech-Driven Text Retrieval: Using Target IR Collections for Statistical Language Model Adaptation in Speech Recognition

Speech recognition has of late become a practical technology for real world applications. Aiming at speech-driven text retrieval, which facilitates retrieving information with spoken queries, we propose a method to integrate speech recognition and retrieval methods. Since users speak contents related to a target collection, we adapt statistical language models used for speech recognition based on the target collection, so as to improve both the recognition and retrieval accuracy. Experiments using existing test collections combined with dictated queries showed the effectiveness of our method.

A Multilevel Approach to Topology-Aware Collective Operations in Computational Grids

The efficient implementation of collective communiction operations has received much attention. Initial efforts produced "optimal" trees based on network communication models that assumed equal point-to-point latencies between any two processes. This assumption is violated in most practical settings, however, particularly in heterogeneous systems such as clusters of SMPs and wide-area "computational Grids," with the result that collective operations perform suboptimally. In response, more recent work has focused on creating topology-aware trees for collective operations that minimize communication across slower channels (e.g., a wide-area network). While these efforts have significant communication benefits, they all limit their view of the network to only two layers. We present a strategy based upon a multilayer view of the network. By creating multilevel topology-aware trees we take advantage of communication cost differences at every level in the network. We used this strategy to implement topology-aware versions of several MPI collective operations in MPICH-G2, the Globus Toolkit[tm]-enabled version of the popular MPICH implementation of the MPI standard. Using information about topology provided by MPICH-G2, we construct these multilevel topology-aware trees automatically during execution. We present results demonstrating the advantages of our multilevel approach by comparing it to the default (topology-unaware) implementation provided by MPICH and a topology-aware two-layer implementation.

MPICH-G2: A Grid-Enabled Implementation of the Message Passing Interface

Application development for distributed computing "Grids" can benefit from tools that variously hide or enable application-level management of critical aspects of the heterogeneous environment. As part of an investigation of these issues, we have developed MPICH-G2, a Grid-enabled implementation of the Message Passing Interface (MPI) that allows a user to run MPI programs across multiple computers, at the same or different sites, using the same commands that would be used on a parallel computer. This library extends the Argonne MPICH implementation of MPI to use services provided by the Globus Toolkit for authentication, authorization, resource allocation, executable staging, and I/O, as well as for process creation, monitoring, and control. Various performance-critical operations, including startup and collective operations, are configured to exploit network topology information. The library also exploits MPI constructs for performance management; for example, the MPI communicator construct is used for application-level discovery of, and adaptation to, both network topology and network quality-of-service mechanisms. We describe the MPICH-G2 design and implementation, present performance results, and review application experiences, including record-setting distributed simulations.

Anticipatory Guidance of Plot

An anticipatory system for guiding plot development in interactive narratives is described. The executable model is a finite automaton that provides the implemented system with a look-ahead. The identification of undesirable future states in the model is used to guide the player, in a transparent manner. In this way, too radical twists of the plot can be avoided. Since the player participates in the development of the plot, such guidance can have many forms, depending on the environment of the player, on the behavior of the other players, and on the means of player interaction. We present a design method for interactive narratives which produces designs suitable for the implementation of anticipatory mechanisms. Use of the method is illustrated by application to our interactive computer game Kaktus.

National Infrastructure Contingencies: Survey of Wireless Technology Support

In modern society, the flow of information has become the lifeblood of commerce and social interaction. This movement of data supports most aspects of the United States economy in particular, as well as, serving as the vehicle upon which governmental agencies react to social conditions. In addition, it is understood that the continuance of efficient and reliable data communications during times of national or regional disaster remains a priority in the United States. The coordination of emergency response and area revitalization / rehabilitation efforts between local, state, and federal emergency response is increasingly necessary as agencies strive to work more seamlessly between the affected organizations. Additionally, international support is often made available to react to such adverse conditions as wildfire suppression scenarios and therefore require the efficient management of workforce and associated logistics support.
It is through the examination of the issues related to un-tethered data transmission during infrastructure contingencies that responders may best tailor a unified approach to the rapid recovery after disasters occur.

Using eigenvectors of the bigram graph to infer morpheme identity

This paper describes the results of some experiments exploring statistical methods to infer syntactic behavior of words and morphemes from a raw corpus in an unsupervised fashion. It shares certain points in common with Brown et al (1992) and work that has grown out of that: it employs statistical techniques to analyze syntactic behavior based on what words occur adjacent to a given word. However, we use an eigenvector decomposition of a nearest-neighbor graph to produce a two-dimensional rendering of the words of a corpus in which words of the same syntactic category tend to form neighborhoods. We exploit this technique for extending the value of automatic learning of morphology. In particular, we look at the suffixes derived from a corpus by unsupervised learning of morphology, and we ask which of these suffixes have a consistent syntactic function (e.g., in English, -tion is primarily a mark of nouns, but -s marks both noun plurals and 3rd person present on verbs), and we determine that this method works well for this task.

Analysis of Titles and Readers For Title Generation Centered on the Readers

The title of a document has two roles, to give a compact summary and to lead the reader to read the document. Conventional title generation focuses on finding key expressions from the author's wording in the document to give a compact summary and pays little attention to the reader's interest. To make the title play its second role properly, it is indispensable to clarify the content (``what to say'') and wording (``how to say'') of titles that are effective to attract the target reader's interest. In this article, we first identify typical content and wording of titles aimed at general readers in a comparative study between titles of technical papers and headlines rewritten for newspapers. Next, we describe the results of a questionnaire survey on the effects of the content and wording of titles on the reader's interest. The survey of general and knowledgeable readers shows both common and different tendencies in interest.

Optimally cutting a surface into a disk

We consider the problem of cutting a set of edges on a polyhedral manifold surface, possibly with boundary, to obtain a single topological disk, minimizing either the total number of cut edges or their total length. We show that this problem is NP-hard, even for manifolds without boundary and for punctured spheres. We also describe an algorithm with running time n^{O(g+k)}, where n is the combinatorial complexity, g is the genus, and k is the number of boundary components of the input surface. Finally, we describe a greedy algorithm that outputs a O(log^2 g)-approximation of the minimum cut graph in O(g^2 n log n) time.

Efficient Deep Processing of Japanese

We present a broad coverage Japanese grammar written in the HPSG formalism with MRS semantics. The grammar is created for use in real world applications, such that robustness and performance issues play an important role. It is connected to a POS tagging and word segmentation tool. This grammar is being developed in a multilingual context, requiring MRS structures that are easily comparable across languages.

Orthonormal RBF wavelet and ridgelet-like series and transforms for high-dimensional problems

This paper developed a systematic strategy establishing RBF on the wavelet analysis, which includes continuous and discrete RBF orthonormal wavelet transforms respectively in terms of singular fundamental solutions and nonsingular general solutions of differential operators. In particular, the harmonic Bessel RBF transforms were presented for high-dimensional data processing. It was also found that the kernel functions of convection-diffusion operator are feasible to construct some stable ridgelet-like RBF transforms. We presented time-space RBF transforms based on non-singular solution and fundamental solution of time-dependent differential operators. The present methodology was further extended to analysis of some known RBFs such as the MQ, Gaussian and pre-wavelet kernel RBFs.

Evolutionary Circuit Design: Information Theory Perspective on Signal Propagation

This paper presents case-study results on the application of information theoretic approach to gate-level evolutionary circuit design. We introduce information measures to provide better estimates of synthesis criteria of digital circuits. For example, the analysis of signal propagation during evolving gate-level synthesis can be improved by using information theoretic measures that will make it possible to find the most effective geometry and therefore predict the cost of the final design solution. The problem is considered from the information engine point of view. That is, the process of evolutionary gate-level circuit design is presented via such measures as entropy, logical work and information vitality. Some examples of geometry driven synthesis are provided to prove the above idea.

Agent Programming with Declarative Goals

A long and lasting problem in agent research has been to close the gap between agent logics and agent programming frameworks. The main reason for this problem of establishing a link between agent logics and agent programming frameworks is identified and explained by the fact that agent programming frameworks have not incorporated the concept of a `declarative goal'. Instead, such frameworks have focused mainly on plans or `goals-to-do' instead of the end goals to be realised which are also called `goals-to-be'. In this paper, a new programming language called GOAL is introduced which incorporates such declarative goals. The notion of a `commitment strategy' - one of the main theoretical insights due to agent logics, which explains the relation between beliefs and goals - is used to construct a computational semantics for GOAL. Finally, a proof theory for proving properties of GOAL agents is introduced. Thus, we offer a complete theory of agent programming in the sense that our theory provides both for a programming framework and a programming logic for such agents. An example program is proven correct by using this programming logic.

Computing Elementary Symmetric Polynomials with a Sublinear Number of Multiplications

Elementary symmetric polynomials $S_n^k$ are used as a benchmark for the bounded-depth arithmetic circuit model of computation. In this work we prove that $S_n^k$ modulo composite numbers $m=p_1p_2$ can be computed with much fewer multiplications than over any field, if the coefficients of monomials $x_{i_1}x_{i_2}... x_{i_k}$ are allowed to be 1 either mod $p_1$ or mod $p_2$ but not necessarily both. More exactly, we prove that for any constant $k$ such a representation of $S_n^k$ can be computed modulo $p_1p_2$ using only $\exp(O(\sqrt{\log n}\log\log n))$ multiplications on the most restricted depth-3 arithmetic circuits, for $\min({p_1,p_2})>k!$. Moreover, the number of multiplications remain sublinear while $k=O(\log\log n).$ In contrast, the well-known Graham-Pollack bound yields an $n-1$ lower bound for the number of multiplications even for the exact computation (not the representation) of $S_n^2$. Our results generalize for other non-prime power composite moduli as well. The proof uses the famous BBR-polynomial of Barrington, Beigel and Rudich.

Symmetric boundary knot method

The boundary knot method (BKM) is a recent boundary-type radial basis function (RBF) collocation scheme for general PDEs. Like the method of fundamental solution (MFS), the RBF is employed to approximate the inhomogeneous terms via the dual reciprocity principle. Unlike the MFS, the method uses a nonsingular general solution instead of a singular fundamental solution to evaluate the homogeneous solution so as to circumvent the controversial artificial boundary outside the physical domain. The BKM is meshfree, superconvergent, integration free, very easy to learn and program. The original BKM, however, loses symmetricity in the presense of mixed boundary. In this study, by analogy with Hermite RBF interpolation, we developed a symmetric BKM scheme. The accuracy and efficiency of the symmetric BKM are also numerically validated in some 2D and 3D Helmholtz and diffusion reaction problems under complicated geometries.

Improving Web Database Access Using Decision Diagrams

In some areas of management and commerce, especially in Electronic commerce (E-commerce), that are accelerated by advances in Web technologies, it is essential to support the decision making process using formal methods. Among the problems of E-commerce applications: reducing the time of data access so that huge databases can be searched quickly; decreasing the cost of database design ... etc. We present the application of Decision Diagrams design using Information Theory approach to improve database access speeds. We show that such utilization provides systematic and visual ways of applying Decision Making methods to simplify complex Web engineering problems.

Synthesis of Low-Power Digital Circuits Derived from Binary Decision Diagrams

This paper introduces a novel method for synthesizing digital circuits derived from Binary Decision Diagrams (BDDs) that can yield to reduction in power dissipation. The power reduction is achieved by decreasing the switching activity in a circuit while paying close attention to information measures as an optimization criterion. We first present the technique of efficient BDD-based computation of information measures which are used to guide the power optimization procedures. Using this technique, we have developed an algorithm of BDD reordering which leads to reducing the power consumption of the circuits derived from BDDs. Results produced by the synthesis on the ISCAS benchmark circuits are very encouraging.

A Compact Graph Model of Handwritten Images: Integration into Authentification and Recognition

A novel algorithm for creating a mathematical model of curved shapes is introduced. The core of the algorithm is based on building a graph representation of the contoured image, which occupies less storage space than produced by raster compression techniques. Different advanced applications of the mathematical model are discussed: recognition of handwritten characters and verification of handwritten text and signatures for authentification purposes. Reducing the storage requirements due to the efficient mathematical model results in faster retrieval and processing times. The experimental outcomes in compression of contoured images and recognition of handwritten numerals are given.

On the Information Engine of Circuit Design

This paper addresses a new approach to find a spectrum of information measures for the process of digital circuit synthesis. We consider the problem from the information engine point of view. The circuit synthesis as a whole and different steps of the design process (an example of decision diagram is given) are presented via such measurements as entropy, logical work and information vitality. We also introduce new information measures to provide better estimates of synthesis criteria. We show that the basic properties of information engine, such as the conservation law of information flow and the equilibrium law of information can be formulated.

New advances in dual reciprocity and boundary-only RBF methods

This paper made some significant advances in the dual reciprocity and boundary-only RBF techniques. The proposed boundary knot method (BKM) is different from the standard boundary element method in a number of important aspects. Namely, it is truly meshless, exponential convergence, integration-free (of course, no singular integration), boundary-only for general problems, and leads to symmetric matrix under certain conditions (able to be extended to general cases after further modified). The BKM also avoids the artificial boundary in the method of fundamental solution. An amazing finding is that the BKM can formulate linear modeling equations for nonlinear partial differential systems with linear boundary conditions. This merit makes it circumvent all perplexing issues in the iteration solution of nonlinear equations. On the other hand, by analogy with Green's second identity, this paper also presents a general solution RBF (GSR) methodology to construct efficient RBFs in the dual reciprocity and domain-type RBF collocation methods. The GSR approach first establishes an explicit relationship between the BEM and RBF itself on the ground of the weighted residual principle. This paper also discusses the RBF convergence and stability problems within the framework of integral equation theory.

New Insights in Boundary-only and Domain-type RBF Methods

This paper has made some significant advances in the boundary-only and domain-type RBF techniques. The proposed boundary knot method (BKM) is different from the standard boundary element method in a number of important aspects. Namely, it is truly meshless, exponential convergence, integration-free (of course, no singular integration), boundary-only for general problems, and leads to symmetric matrix under certain conditions (able to be extended to general cases after further modified). The BKM also avoids the artificial boundary in the method of fundamental solution. An amazing finding is that the BKM can formulate linear modeling equations for nonlinear partial differential systems with linear boundary conditions. This merit makes it circumvent all perplexing issues in the iteration solution of nonlinear equations. On the other hand, by analogy with Green's second identity, we also presents a general solution RBF (GSR) methodology to construct efficient RBFs in the domain-type RBF collocation method and dual reciprocity method. The GSR approach first establishes an explicit relationship between the BEM and RBF itself on the ground of the potential theory. This paper also discusses some essential issues relating to the RBF computing, which include time-space RBFs, direct and indirect RBF schemes, finite RBF method, and the application of multipole and wavelet to the RBF solution of the PDEs.

Definitions of distance function in radial basis function approach

Very few studies involve how to construct the efficient RBFs by means of problem features. Recently the present author presented general solution RBF (GS-RBF) methodology to create operator-dependent RBFs successfully [1]. On the other hand, the normal radial basis function (RBF) is defined via Euclidean space distance function or the geodesic distance [2]. This purpose of this note is to redefine distance function in conjunction with problem features, which include problem-dependent and time-space distance function.

Abduction, ASP and Open Logic Programs

Open logic programs and open entailment have been recently proposed as an abstract framework for the verification of incomplete specifications based upon normal logic programs and the stable model semantics. There are obvious analogies between open predicates and abducible predicates. However, despite superficial similarities, there are features of open programs that have no immediate counterpart in the framework of abduction and viceversa. Similarly, open programs cannot be immediately simulated with answer set programming (ASP). In this paper we start a thorough investigation of the relationships between open inference, abduction and ASP. We shall prove that open programs generalize the other two frameworks. The generalized framework suggests interesting extensions of abduction under the generalized stable model semantics. In some cases, we will be able to reduce open inference to abduction and ASP, thereby estimating its computational complexity. At the same time, the aforementioned reduction opens the way to new applications of abduction and ASP.

What is a Joint Goal? Games with Beliefs and Defeasible Desires

In this paper we introduce a qualitative decision and game theory based on belief (B) and desire (D) rules. We show that a group of agents acts as if it is maximizing achieved joint goals.

Domain-Dependent Knowledge in Answer Set Planning

In this paper we consider three different kinds of domain-dependent control knowledge (temporal, procedural and HTN-based) that are useful in planning. Our approach is declarative and relies on the language of logic programming with answer set semantics (AnsProlog*). AnsProlog* is designed to plan without control knowledge. We show how temporal, procedural and HTN-based control knowledge can be incorporated into AnsProlog* by the modular addition of a small number of domain-dependent rules, without the need to modify the planner. We formally prove the correctness of our planner, both in the absence and presence of the control knowledge. Finally, we perform some initial experimentation that demonstrates the potential reduction in planning time that can be achieved when procedural domain knowledge is used to solve planning problems with large plan length.

On Concise Encodings of Preferred Extensions

Much work on argument systems has focussed on preferred extensions which define the maximal collectively defensible subsets. Identification and enumeration of these subsets is (under the usual assumptions) computationally demanding. We consider approaches to deciding if a subset S is a preferred extension which query a representations encoding all such extensions, so that the computational effort is invested once only (for the initial enumeration) rather than for each separate query.

"Minimal defence": a refinement of the preferred semantics for argumentation frameworks

Dung's abstract framework for argumentation enables a study of the interactions between arguments based solely on an ``attack'' binary relation on the set of arguments. Various ways to solve conflicts between contradictory pieces of information have been proposed in the context of argumentation, nonmonotonic reasoning or logic programming, and can be captured by appropriate semantics within Dung's framework. A common feature of these semantics is that one can always maximize in some sense the set of acceptable arguments. We propose in this paper to extend Dung's framework in order to allow for the representation of what we call ``restricted'' arguments: these arguments should only be used if absolutely necessary, that is, in order to support other arguments that would otherwise be defeated. We modify Dung's preferred semantics accordingly: a set of arguments becomes acceptable only if it contains a minimum of restricted arguments, for a maximum of unrestricted arguments.

Linear-Time Algorithms for Computing Maximum-Density Sequence Segments with Bioinformatics Applications

We study an abstract optimization problem arising from biomolecular sequence analysis. For a sequence A of pairs (a_i,w_i) for i = 1,..,n and w_i>0, a segment A(i,j) is a consecutive subsequence of A starting with index i and ending with index j. The width of A(i,j) is w(i,j) = sum_{i <= k <= j} w_k, and the density is (sum_{i<= k <= j} a_k)/ w(i,j). The maximum-density segment problem takes A and two values L and U as input and asks for a segment of A with the largest possible density among those of width at least L and at most U. When U is unbounded, we provide a relatively simple, O(n)-time algorithm, improving upon the O(n \log L)-time algorithm by Lin, Jiang and Chao. When both L and U are specified, there are no previous nontrivial results. We solve the problem in O(n) time if w_i=1 for all i, and more generally in O(n+n\log(U-L+1)) time when w_i>=1 for all i.

Greedy Facility Location Algorithms Analyzed using Dual Fitting with Factor-Revealing LP

In this paper, we will formalize the method of dual fitting and the idea of factor-revealing LP. This combination is used to design and analyze two greedy algorithms for the metric uncapacitated facility location problem. Their approximation factors are 1.861 and 1.61, with running times of O(mlog m) and O(n^3), respectively, where n is the total number of vertices and m is the number of edges in the underlying complete bipartite graph between cities and facilities. The algorithms are used to improve recent results for several variants of the problem.

Two Representations for Iterative Non-prioritized Change

We address a general representation problem for belief change, and describe two interrelated representations for iterative non-prioritized change: a logical representation in terms of persistent epistemic states, and a constructive representation in terms of flocks of bases.

Collective Argumentation

An extension of an abstract argumentation framework, called collective argumentation, is introduced in which the attack relation is defined directly among sets of arguments. The extension turns out to be suitable, in particular, for representing semantics of disjunctive logic programs. Two special kinds of collective argumentation are considered in which the opponents can share their arguments.

Intuitions and the modelling of defeasible reasoning: some case studies

The purpose of this paper is to address some criticisms recently raised by John Horty in two articles against the validity of two commonly accepted defeasible reasoning patterns, viz. reinstatement and floating conclusions. I shall argue that Horty's counterexamples, although they significantly raise our understanding of these reasoning patterns, do not show their invalidity. Some of them reflect patterns which, if made explicit in the formalisation, avoid the unwanted inference without having to give up the criticised inference principles. Other examples seem to involve hidden assumptions about the specific problem which, if made explicit, are nothing but extra information that defeat the defeasible inference. These considerations will be put in a wider perspective by reflecting on the nature of defeasible reasoning principles as principles of justified acceptance rather than `real' logical inference.

Reducing the Computational Requirements of the Differential Quadrature Method

This paper shows that the weighting coefficient matrices of the differential quadrature method (DQM) are centrosymmetric or skew-centrosymmetric if the grid spacings are symmetric irrespective of whether they are equal or unequal. A new skew centrosymmetric matrix is also discussed. The application of the properties of centrosymmetric and skew centrosymmetric matrix can reduce the computational effort of the DQM for calculations of the inverse, determinant, eigenvectors and eigenvalues by 75%. This computational advantage are also demonstrated via several numerical examples.

A Lyapunov Formulation for Efficient Solution of the Poisson and Convection-Diffusion Equations by the Differential Quadrature Method

Civan and Sliepcevich [1, 2] suggested that special matrix solver should be developed to further reduce the computing effort in applying the differential quadrature (DQ) method for the Poisson and convection-diffusion equations. Therefore, the purpose of the present communication is to introduce and apply the Lyapunov formulation which can be solved much more efficiently than the Gaussian elimination method. Civan and Sliepcevich [2] first presented DQ approximate formulas in polynomial form for partial derivatives in tow-dimensional variable domain. For simplifying formulation effort, Chen et al. [3] proposed the compact matrix form of these DQ approximate formulas. In this study, by using these matrix approximate formulas, the DQ formulations for the Poisson and convection-diffusion equations can be expressed as the Lyapunov algebraic matrix equation. The formulation effort is simplified, and a simple and explicit matrix formulation is obtained. A variety of fast algorithms in the solution of the Lyapunov equation [4-6] can be successfully applied in the DQ analysis of these two-dimensional problems, and, thus, the computing effort can be greatly reduced. Finally, we also point out that the present reduction technique can be easily extended to the three-dimensional cases.

System Description for a Scalable, Fault-Tolerant, Distributed Garbage Collector

We describe an efficient and fault-tolerant algorithm for distributed cyclic garbage collection. The algorithm imposes few requirements on the local machines and allows for flexibility in the choice of local collector and distributed acyclic garbage collector to use with it. We have emphasized reducing the number and size of network messages without sacrificing the promptness of collection throughout the algorithm. Our proposed collector is a variant of back tracing to avoid extensive synchronization between machines. We have added an explicit forward tracing stage to the standard back tracing stage and designed a tuned heuristic to reduce the total amount of work done by the collector. Of particular note is the development of fault-tolerant cooperation between traces and a heuristic that aggressively reduces the set of suspect objects.

Some logics of belief and disbelief

The introduction of explicit notions of rejection, or disbelief, into logics for knowledge representation can be justified in a number of ways. Motivations range from the need for versions of negation weaker than classical negation, to the explicit recording of classic belief contraction operations in the area of belief change, and the additional levels of expressivity obtained from an extended version of belief change which includes disbelief contraction. In this paper we present four logics of disbelief which address some or all of these intuitions. Soundness and completeness results are supplied and the logics are compared with respect to applicability and utility.

Iterated revision and the axiom of recovery: a unified treatment via epistemic states

The axiom of recovery, while capturing a central intuition regarding belief change, has been the source of much controversy. We argue briefly against putative counterexamples to the axiom--while agreeing that some of their insight deserves to be preserved--and present additional recovery-like axioms in a framework that uses epistemic states, which encode preferences, as the object of revisions. This provides a framework in which iterated revision becomes possible and makes explicit the connection between iterated belief change and the axiom of recovery. We provide a representation theorem that connects the semantic conditions that we impose on iterated revision and the additional syntactical properties mentioned. We also show some interesting similarities between our framework and that of Darwiche-Pearl. In particular, we show that the intuitions underlying the controversial (C2) postulate are captured by the recovery axiom and our recovery-like postulates (the latter can be seen as weakenings of (C2).

Dual reciprocity BEM and dynamic programming filter for inverse elastodynamic problems

This paper presents the first coupling application of the dual reciprocity BEM (DRBEM) and dynamic programming filter to inverse elastodynamic problem. The DRBEM is the only BEM method, which does not require domain discretization for general linear and nonlinear dynamic problems. Since the size of numerical discretization system has a great effect on the computing effort of recursive or iterative calculations of inverse analysis, the intrinsic boundary-only merit of the DRBEM causes a considerable computational saving. On the other hand, the strengths of the dynamic programming filter lie in its mathematical simplicity, easy to program and great flexibility in the type, number and locations of measurements and unknown inputs. The combination of these two techniques is therefore very attractive for the solution of practical inverse problems. In this study, the spatial and temporal partial derivatives of the governing equation are respectively discretized first by the DRBEM and the precise integration method, and then, by using dynamic programming with regularization, dynamic load is estimated based on noisy measurements of velocity and displacement at very few locations. Numerical experiments involved with the periodic and Heaviside impact load are conducted to demonstrate the applicability, efficiency and simplicity of this strategy. The affect of noise level, regularization parameter, and measurement types on the estimation is also investigated.

Well-Founded Argumentation Semantics for Extended Logic Programming

This paper defines an argumentation semantics for extended logic programming and shows its equivalence to the well-founded semantics with explicit negation. We set up a general framework in which we extensively compare this semantics to other argumentation semantics, including those of Dung, and Prakken and Sartor. We present a general dialectical proof theory for these argumentation semantics.

RBF-based meshless boundary knot method and boundary particle method

This paper is concerned with the two new boundary-type radial basis function collocation schemes, boundary knot method (BKM) and boundary particle method (BPM). The BKM is developed based on the dual reciprocity theorem, while the BPM employs the multiple reciprocity technique. Unlike the method of fundamental solution, the wto methods use the nonsingular general solutions instead of singular fundamental solution to circumvent the controversial artificial boundary outside physical domain. Compared with the boundary element method, both the BKM and BPM are meshfree, superconvergent, meshfree, integration free, symmetric, and mathematically simple collocation techniques for general PDEs. In particular, the BPM does not require any inner nodes for inhomogeneous problems. In this study, the accuracy and efficiency of the two methods are numerically demonstrated to some 2D, 3D Helmholtz and convection-diffusion problems under complicated geometries.

Logic Programming with Ordered Disjunction

Logic programs with ordered disjunction (LPODs) combine ideas underlying Qualitative Choice Logic (Brewka et al. KR 2002) and answer set programming. Logic programming under answer set semantics is extended with a new connective called ordered disjunction. The new connective allows us to represent alternative, ranked options for problem solutions in the heads of rules: A \times B intuitively means: if possible A, but if A is not possible then at least B. The semantics of logic programs with ordered disjunction is based on a preference relation on answer sets. LPODs are useful for applications in design and configuration and can serve as a basis for qualitative decision making.

A meshless, integration-free, and boundary-only RBF technique

Based on the radial basis function (RBF), non-singular general solution and dual reciprocity method (DRM), this paper presents an inherently meshless, integration-free, boundary-only RBF collocation techniques for numerical solution of various partial differential equation systems. The basic ideas behind this methodology are very mathematically simple. In this study, the RBFs are employed to approximate the inhomogeneous terms via the DRM, while non-singular general solution leads to a boundary-only RBF formulation for homogenous solution. The present scheme is named as the boundary knot method (BKM) to differentiate it from the other numerical techniques. In particular, due to the use of nonsingular general solutions rather than singular fundamental solutions, the BKM is different from the method of fundamental solution in that the former does no require the artificial boundary and results in the symmetric system equations under certain conditions. The efficiency and utility of this new technique are validated through a number of typical numerical examples. Completeness concern of the BKM due to the only use of non-singular part of complete fundamental solution is also discussed.

Declarative program development in Prolog with GUPU

We present GUPU, a side-effect free environment specialized for programming courses. It seamlessly guides and supports students during all phases of program development, covering specification, implementation, and program debugging. GUPU features several innovations in this area. The specification phase is supported by reference implementations augmented with diagnostic facilities. During implementation, immediate feedback from test cases and from visualization tools helps the programmer's program understanding. A set of slicing techniques narrows down programming errors. The whole process is guided by a marking system.

Compilation of Propositional Weighted Bases

In this paper, we investigate the extent to which knowledge compilation can be used to improve inference from propositional weighted bases. We present a general notion of compilation of a weighted base that is parametrized by any equivalence--preserving compilation function. Both negative and positive results are presented. On the one hand, complexity results are identified, showing that the inference problem from a compiled weighted base is as difficult as in the general case, when the prime implicates, Horn cover or renamable Horn cover classes are targeted. On the other hand, we show that the inference problem becomes tractable whenever DNNF-compilations are used and clausal queries are considered. Moreover, we show that the set of all preferred models of a DNNF-compilation of a weighted base can be computed in time polynomial in the output size. Finally, we sketch how our results can be used in model-based diagnosis in order to compute the most probable diagnoses of a system.

COINS: a constraint-based interactive solving system

This paper describes the COINS (COnstraint-based INteractive Solving) system: a conflict-based constraint solver. It helps understanding inconsistencies, simulates constraint additions and/or retractions (without any propagation), determines if a given constraint belongs to a conflict and provides diagnosis tools (e.g. why variable v cannot take value val). COINS also uses user-friendly representation of conflicts and explanations.

Tracing and Explaining Execution of CLP(FD) Programs

Previous work in the area of tracing CLP(FD) programs mainly focuses on providing information about control of execution and domain modification. In this paper, we present a trace structure that provides information about additional important aspects. We incorporate explanations in the trace structure, i.e. reasons for why certain solver actions occur. Furthermore, we come up with a format for describing the execution of the filtering algorithms of global constraints. Some new ideas about the design of the trace are also presented. For example, we have modeled our trace as a nested block structure in order to achieve a hierarchical view. Also, new ways about how to represent and identify different entities such as constraints and domain variables are presented.

CLPGUI: a generic graphical user interface for constraint logic programming over finite domains

CLPGUI is a graphical user interface for visualizing and interacting with constraint logic programs over finite domains. In CLPGUI, the user can control the execution of a CLP program through several views of constraints, of finite domain variables and of the search tree. CLPGUI is intended to be used both for teaching purposes, and for debugging and improving complex programs of realworld scale. It is based on a client-server architecture for connecting the CLP process to a Java-based GUI process. Communication by message passing provides an open architecture which facilitates the reuse of graphical components and the porting to different constraint programming systems. Arbitrary constraints and goals can be posted incrementally from the GUI. We propose several dynamic 2D and 3D visualizations of the search tree and of the evolution of finite domain variables. We argue that the 3D representation of search trees proposed in this paper provides the most appropriate visualization of large search trees. We describe the current implementation of the annotations and of the interactive execution model in GNU-Prolog, and report some evaluation results.

Value withdrawal explanations: a theoretical tool for programming environments

Constraint logic programming combines declarativity and efficiency thanks to constraint solvers implemented for specific domains. Value withdrawal explanations have been efficiently used in several constraints programming environments but there does not exist any formalization of them. This paper is an attempt to fill this lack. Furthermore, we hope that this theoretical tool could help to validate some programming environments. A value withdrawal explanation is a tree describing the withdrawal of a value during a domain reduction by local consistency notions and labeling. Domain reduction is formalized by a search tree using two kinds of operators: operators for local consistency notions and operators for labeling. These operators are defined by sets of rules. Proof trees are built with respect to these rules. For each removed value, there exists such a proof tree which is the withdrawal explanation of this value.

Exporting Prolog source code

In this paper we present a simple source code configuration tool. ExLibris operates on libraries and can be used to extract from local libraries all code relevant to a particular project. Our approach is not designed to address problems arising in code production lines, but rather, to support the needs of individual or small teams of researchers who wish to communicate their Prolog programs. In the process, we also wish to accommodate and encourage the writing of reusable code. Moreover, we support and propose ways of dealing with issues arising in the development of code that can be run on a variety of like-minded Prolog systems. With consideration to these aims we have made the following decisions: (i) support file-based source development, (ii) require minimal program transformation, (iii) target simplicity of usage, and (iv) introduce minimum number of new primitives.

Proceedings of the 12th International Workshop on Logic Programming Environments

The twelfth Workshop on Logic Programming Environments, WLPE 2002, is one in a series of international workshops held in the topic area. The workshops facilitate the exchange ideas and results among researchers and system developers on all aspects of environments for logic programming. Relevant topics for these workshops include user interfaces, human engineering, execution visualization, development tools, providing for new paradigms, and interfacing to language system tools and external systems. This twelfth workshop held in Copenhaguen. It follows the successful eleventh Workshop on Logic Programming Environments held in Cyprus in December, 2001.
WLPE 2002 features ten presentations. The presentations involve, in some way, constraint logic programming, object-oriented programming and abstract interpretation. Topics areas addressed include tools for software development, execution visualization, software maintenance, instructional aids.
This workshop was a post-conference workshop at ICLP 2002.
Alexandre Tessier, Program Chair, WLPE 2002, June 2002.

An Architecture for Making Object-Oriented Systems Available from Prolog

It is next to impossible to develop real-life applications in just pure Prolog.