Q: How can I chop onions without crying?

Onions are an excellent addition to many dishes, but cutting them can be frustrating when they make you "cry" all the time.

Does anyone know any tips or tricks to help minimise the tears when chopping onions?

Q: Translating cooking terms between US / UK / AU / CA / NZ

This post is an attempt to keep track of the terms that differ between dialects of English or exist in some dialects but not others: British (UK) / Australian (AU) / Canadian (CA) / American (US) / New Zealand (NZ), etc.

Please note that Canada may be difficult to classify, as some regions (especially near the southern border) use US terms, while others may use UK terms.

It's a community wiki, so feel free to edit and clarify or add additional items. The comments are getting long, so use answers for discussion of specific concepts if necessary. If you're not sure what a term means, ask it as a new question and tag it with language)

For similar terms in other languages or terms that do not translate cleanly, see What international cooking terms sound similar but have different meanings? .
Fruits & Vegetables:

- Eggplant (US, CA, AU, NZ) is an aubergine (UK, NZ).

- Zucchini (US, CA, AU) is a courgette (UK, NZ) when harvested young or a marrow (UK, AU) when allowed to mature further.

- Summer Squash (US) are members of the squash family with a short storage life typically harvested before full maturity; typically available starting in the spring and summer; includes zucchini, yellow and crookneck squash.

- Winter Squash (US) are members of the squash family that are allowed to reach full maturity before harvesting; typically available in the fall; includes pumpkin, acorn and butternut squash.

- also note that squash may refer to a drink (see "cordial")

- Arugula (US, CA) is rocket (UK, AU, NZ).

- Rutabaga (US, CA) is swede (UK, AU, NZ), but also called turnip, Swedish turnip or neep in some parts of the UK, particularly Scotland. (Wikipedia). Not to be confused with a turnip (AKA white turnip), which is a similar, smaller vegetable.

- Endive (US, NZ) is chicory (Belgium, UK, NZ perhaps others).

- Capsicum (AU, NZ) / bell pepper (US, CA) is a pepper (UK).  Note that for people with a biology background 'capsicum' also includes hot peppers (aka chilies or chili peppers)

- Peppers (US, CA) (note the plural), is typically short for chili peppers unless qualified as sweet peppers or bell peppers, or specified as peppercorn.

- Colored peppers (US, CA, UK), (eg, red peppers, green peppers), typically refers to bell peppers unless qualified (eg, 'hot red peppers', 'small red peppers')

- Pepper (US, CA, NZ, UK) (note the singular) refers to black peppercorns unless otherwise qualified.

- Red pepper (US, note the singular) refers to dried, red chilies (typically cayenne) that has been dried and ground or crushed.

- Seaweed (US) has many names based on type of plant, including Kombu (Japan), Nori (Japan), Laver (Wales), and many others. See (edible seaweed)

- Snow peas (US, CA, AU, NZ) are mange tout (UK) (word borrowed from French meaning 'eat everything'). Mange tout (UK) also includes sugar snap peas (US, UK), but these are not the same thing. Snap peas are fatter, similar to conventional green peas, while mange tout are flat. In both cases the peas and pod are eaten together.

- Peanuts (US, CA, AU, NZ) may sometimes be sold in the UK as monkey nuts, especially if unshelled. And Peanut Oil may be known in the UK as groundnut oil.

- Legumes (US, CA) are pulses (UK, CA, NZ). 'Legume' may refer to the plant and not the seeds (lentils, beans, etc).

- Boiling potatoes (US) are waxy potatoes (UK, US).  This refers to low-starch potatoes that don't fall apart when cooked.  Sometimes called roasting potatoes (US, CA).  New potatoes behave like waxy potatoes, even if they come from a variety used for baking.

- Mealy potatoes (US) are floury potatoes (UK) or baking potatoes (UK, US, CA). This refers to high starch, low moisture potatoes that result in significant softening when cooked (useful for mashed potatoes or using for thickening; the opposite of waxy potatoes).

- Runner Beans (UK, NZ) are large flat green beans or string beans (US, CA) (Farmhouse Cookery). UK also has green beans and stringless beans, but neither is the same as runner beans.

- Broad Beans (UK, AU, NZ) are fava beans, butter beans or lima beans (US, CA) (Farmhouse Cookery)

- Sultanas (UK, AU, NZ) are seedless golden raisins (Farmhouse Cookery)

- Spring onions (UK, AU, CA, NZ), Scallions (US, CA), and green onions may not always be the same thing, but can typically be substituted for each other.  (more details).

- Corn (US) always refers to maize.  Most Americans don’t even know what maize is.  Corn in other countries may refer generically to grain.

Herbs, Spices & Seasonings:

- Kosher(ing) salt (US, CA) is flaked salt (UK). Refers to the Jewish dietary practice of salting meat to remove blood. It has become a standard salt used in cured meat products as it is coarse and often without additives that may lead to off tastes when used in cures. Some sea salts may be appropriate substitutes (ref).

- Cilantro (US, CA) is known as Coriander (UK, AU, CA, NZ), and it tends to refer to the leaf, unless qualified as coriander seed.  May be qualified as fresh coriander or green coriander. Ground coriander is always the seed.

- Coriander (US, CA) refers to the seed.

- Celeriac (UK, AU, US) is celery root (US) (Farmhouse Cookery)

- Stock cubes (AU, NZ, UK) are bouillon cubes (US, CA).  May be Maggi cube or Oxo cube (UK; brand name issues) or simply stock cube (UK)

- Mixed Spice (UK, NZ) aka pudding spice (UK) is roughly equivalent to Pumpkin Pie Spice (US, CA) (aka pie spice or pumpkin spice).  Both are spice blends heavy in cinnamon and nutmeg, likely to have allspice and possibly other similar spices.  Either one may have ginger and cloves as well.  Mixed spice may contain coriander (seed) or caraway.

- Pumpkin spice (US) is the spice for adding to pumpkin pies (usually a blend of cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, ginger and such) and doesn’t contain pumpkin or any other squash.

- Chili powder (US) is a spice mixture for seasoning chili con carne. Chili powder contains mainly ground chili peppers (eg, cayenne), onion powder, garlic powder and cumin. Mixtures vary, and often include oregano, black pepper, paprika and/or salt.

- Chili powder (CA, NZ) or chilli powder (UK) is pure ground chili peppers. In the US, it is usually qualified with a variety of chili and includes an "e" such as "New Mexico chile powder" or "Ancho chile powder".  (See also "red pepper", above.)

- (see also 'peppercorns' for a discussion of 'black pepper', under the discussion of 'pepper' in Fruits & Vegetables)

Baked Goods:

- Cookies (US, CA) might be biscuits (UK, AU, NZ) if they are firm (like biscotti) but may still be called cookies (UK, possibly others) if they are soft and more cake-like in texture.

- Biscuits (US, CA) are similar to a scone (UK, AU, NZ), and usually neither sweet nor savory.

- Scone (US, CA) tends to be sweeter than a scone (UK).

- Graham Crackers (US, CA) are roughly analogous to Digestive biscuits in the UK (both may be used to make a crust or dessert base, for example).

- Muffin (US, CA, AU, NZ) is a quick bread (typically using the 'muffin method') baked in forms used for cupcakes. It increasingly has this meaning in the UK too, with the prevalence of American-style coffee-shop chains. Muffin (UK) is english muffin (US, CA, AU, NZ), a yeast leavened flat-ish bread, cooked on a griddle with a ring form.

- Sponge cake is a term for the lighter range of "typical" cake in both US and UK. However, since the range of cakes typically baked varies between the US and UK, in British usage one finds "sponges" that are heavier and denser than what an American would call a "sponge". See this answer for further discussion.

- Pancake (US, CA) generally refers to puffy items made from a thick leavened batter but generally smaller than an American pancake.  (AU may use 'pancake' for items larger than "silver dollar pancakes"). Pancake can go by a number of names in the US, including hotcakes, griddlecakes,  flapjacks and hoecakes.

- Pancake (UK, AU, NZ) is made from a thinner unleavened batter, with a result a little thicker than a french crêpe. Drop scone (or scotch pancake) (UK) or Pikelet (AU, NZ) is similar to a (US, CA) pancake

- Flapjack (US) is the same thing as a (US) pancake. But flapjack (UK) is a baked square usually consisting of sugar/honey, butter, and oats, vaguely similar to a granola bar (ref)

- Frosting (US, CA) is icing (UK, CA, AU, NZ). In the US, frosting typically has air whipped into it, while icing (US) doesn't and dries harder.

- Turnover (US, CA) or hand pie (US, CA) is pasty/pastie (ˈpas-tē) (UK, NZ, CA). (Pasties (ˈpās-tēz) in the US are coverings to comply with nudity laws in strip clubs.) Turnover (UK) is a puff pastry shell, usually triangular, filled with fruit and whipped cream.  In Australia, pasty is usually a meat and vegetable filled pastry, while a similar fruit-filled items is a turnover

- Flan (US, CA) is créme caramel (AU, CA). (ref)

- Flan (AU, UK) is a sweet pastry tart, usually containing custard and fruit. In the UK it can also refer to a savoury version, similar to a quiche.

- Coffee Cake (US) is spiced cake often served for breakfast or occasionally as a snack with coffee.  They often have a streusel (not strudel) like topping (similar to a crumble topping).

- Coffee Cake (UK, NZ) is a cake that is flavored with coffee.

Flour:

- plain flour (UK, AU, NZ) is wheat flour with an 8-10% protein content.  You can typically use all-purpose flour (US, CA) (aka 'AP flour' or just 'AP' on cooking shows) unless otherwise qualified (eg, 'plain, strong flour') in which case it just means 'not self-rising'.  Note that AP flour in the US South (eg, White Lily brand) tends to be closer to UK plain flour than northern and national brands of AP flour (eg, King Arthur, Gold Medal).  See https://cooking.stackexchange.com/a/126064/67

- soft flour (UK) is lower gluten than AP flour, such as pastry flour (US, CA) or cake flour (US, CA)

- strong flour (UK) aka. hard flour (UK, CA) is higher gluten flour, such as bread flour (US, CA)

- self-rising flour (US, CA) is available in the US, but less common. It is referred to as self-raising flour in the UK, AU and NZ.  Although it has baking powder in it, it does not have fat in it such as Bisquick or other 'baking mixes'.

UK Self-raising flour does not contain salt. Apparently US self-rising flour does.

- wholemeal flour (UK, NZ) is whole wheat flour (US, CA)

Meats:

- Ground beef (US, CA) is minced beef (AU, UK) or simply mince (UK, AU, NZ).

- Canadian bacon (US), peameal bacon (CA) is also back bacon (from the loin). Canadian grocery stores may have multiple brands that use both names.

- Bacon (CA, US) is streaky bacon (UK) (from the belly). In the UK, bacon is most likely back bacon.

- Green Bacon (UK) is "unsmoked bacon cured in brine" (Farmhouse Cookery)

- Gammon (UK) is "ham-like bacon from the pig's hindquarters" (Farmhouse Cookery). Essentially it is an uncooked joint of ham, designed to be cooked at home.

- Pork rinds (US, CA) are scratchings (UK, when dry) and crackling (AU, NZ & UK when fresh from a roast).

- Brawn (UK) is head cheese (US, CA) (Farmhouse Cookery)

- Names of cuts of meat in the US may differ from other countries. See Wikipedia for images of US and British names of regions

- Prawns (AU, UK) and shrimp (US) are technically different animals, but are frequently labeled by the more common one in that country, and are often substituted for each other. In Canada and the UK, shrimp  may be used to refer to smaller sizes  and prawn for larger.

Dairy:  (ref, ref)

- 

Light Cream (CA) has 5% butterfat.  Light Cream (US) is 18 to 30% butterfat.  (Lite Cream (AU) is roughly 18% butterfat)

- 

Table Cream (CA) is 15% or 18% butterfat.

- 

Single cream (UK) is at least 18% butterfat.  Equivalent to Lite Cream (AU), Thickened Cream - Reduced Fat (AU), Table Cream (CA), Coffee Cream (CA).  Extra Thick Single Cream (UK) contains stabilizers.

- 

Cream (US) with 5% butterfat is not commonly found in the UK

- 

Half-and-half (US) is a mix of half cream, half milk (about 12.5% butterfat in the US, but 10% butterfat in CA).  May be called blend cream (CA).

- 

Cooking Cream (CA (Quebec)) is either 15% or 35% butterfat, thickened with stabilizers and emulsifiers

- 

Country-Style Cream (CA (Quebec)) is either 15% or 35% butterfat, with stabilizers and emulsifiers

- 

Whipping Cream (CA) is 33 to 36% butterfat, and may have stabilizers.  Equivalent to Thickened Cream (AU), Pouring Cream (AU) or Single Cream (AU).  Whipping Cream (US) may be from 30 to 36% milkfat. Whipping Cream (UK) contains at least 35% butterfat.

- 

Heavy cream (US) aka heavy whipping cream (US) = cream with more than 36% fat, and often has stabilizers

- 

Regular Cream (AU, NZ) or Pure Cream (AU) are roughly 40% butterfat without thickening agents.

- 

Double Cream (UK) is at least 48% milkfat.  Extra Thick Double Cream (UK) contains stabilizers.

- 

Rich Cream (AU), Thick Cream (AU), or Double Cream (AU) is a spoonable cream with 48% butterfat or more.

- 

Clotted Cream (UK, CA) or Devon Cream (UK), has been heated to evaporate liquid, resulting in a spoonable cream with about 55% milkfat.

- 

Buttermilk (US, CA, modern usage, aka 'cultured buttermilk') is a fermented product, basically a runny yogurt, while historically buttermilk is the liquid left over after churning butter.  Historic buttermilk made with fresh milk is closer to today's skim milk, but if made with sour milk is closer to cultured buttermilk.

- 

Sour cream (US, CA, NZ) = soured cream (UK)

- 

Creamer (US) aka coffee creamer or non-dairy creamer is a non-dairy (but may have some milk derivatives in it) alternative to milk or cream.  It can be a shelf-stable powder or a liquid.  The liquids often have flavors added.  It is sold as whitening in the UK.  (example: Nestle's Coffee-mate)

Sugar:

- powdered sugar or confectioners sugar (US, CA) is icing sugar (UK, CA, NZ) or icing sugar mixture (AU) or 10X (US Chef slang); contains cornstarch (~3%) as an anti-clumping agent.

- icing sugar (AU), aka pure icing sugar does not have starch in it.

- superfine sugar (US, CA) is caster sugar (UK, NZ, AU); may also be called berry sugar (CA), fruit sugar (CA), bar sugar, castor sugar, instant dissolving sugar, ultrafine sugar, fondant sugar, or extra fine sugar.

- sanding sugar (US) is pearl sugar (CA).  (size between coarse sugar & granulated sugar)

- unless otherwise qualified, sugar (US, CA, NZ, UK) is granulated sugar

Other Food / Ingredients:

- entree (US, CA) is the main course.  Entree (AU, NZ) is a starter course, or appetizer (US, CA) course.  (ref). The term is rarely used in the UK, but is more likely to be understood to be a starter.

- dessert (US, CA, AU) is pudding, sweets, dessert or afters (UK, depending on region and social class).  Pudding is usually a cooked item, while dessert may be fresh fruit or other non-cooked item.

- 

pudding (US, CA) is roughly equiv. to custard (UK, CA)

- 

pudding (UK) is a much broader range of items, including savoury foods like black pudding (a kind of blood sausage) and Yorkshire pudding (oven baked batter puffs served alongside savoury foods, usually roast dinners), due to its historical roots which applied to various foods boiled in animal innards or muslin cloth, but unless qualified usually refers to a sweet dessert item.

- 

jello (US, CA; brand name issues) is jelly (UK, AU, NZ)

- 

jelly (US) is seedless jam (UK, NZ)  (see answer below for details)

- 

fries (US, CA, abbr. for french fries) are chips (UK, NZ, CA for 'fish and chips'); both terms work in AU and NZ, as does hot chips.

- 

chips (UK) are steak fries (US, CA), rather than the typical American shoestring fries

- 

chips (US, CA, NZ) are crisps (UK). AU and NZ have mixed usage.

- 

cornstarch (US, CA) is cornflour (UK, AU, NZ)

- 

corn flour (US; aka fine corn meal) is maize flour (AU),
a finer ground version of cornmeal (US, UK) or polenta (US, UK, NZ). Cornflour (UK) is the extracted starch derived from the raw corn kernal, not the dry ground flesh of the whole kernal.  Also called masa harina (US) if made from nixtamalized corn.

- 

cornflour (AU, NZ) is a powdered starch, but not necessarily made from corn, as there is also 'wheaten cornflour'. (ref)

- 

cider (US) is unfiltered (cloudy) juice, commonly from apples, while cider (UK, NZ) is an alcoholic beverage made from apple juice (aka. hard cider (US) or scrumpy (UK) for stronger dry ciders). cider (AU) refers to both the alcoholic beverage and any non-alcoholic carbonated apple juice. cider in Canada refers to hot spiced apple beverages and both non-alcoholic and alcoholic apple and pear beverages, carbonated or fermented.

- 

cordial [US] is a flavored alcohol, while cordial [UK, CA, AU, NZ] is a liquid drink flavoring that is intended to be diluted with water.  (ref). In the UK some types of cordial are often referred to as squash.

- 

liquid smoke (US, CA, NZ) is condensed smoke, used as a flavoring.

- 

black beer (UK) is a malt liquor/fortified wine containing malt.

- 

black beer (US, Germany), also called black lager or schwarzbier is a type of lager brewed with extremely dark malt.

- 

tomato sauce (UK, AU, NZ) is ketchup (UK, US, CA).  Also catsup and other spelling variants.

- 

tomato sauce (UK, US, CA) is a tomato based sauce typically for pasta or pizza.  It may refer to canned tomato sauce which is thinned tomato paste possibly with herbs or spices, or a more complex Italian style cooked sauce of tomatoes, onions, garlic, and other spices and ingredients typically served over pasta (sometimes called marinara or jarred tomato sauce)

- 

tomato paste (US, CA, AU, NZ) is tomato purée (UK), a thick, concentrated tomato product.

- 

tomato purée (US, CA, AU) is unreduced tomatoes (possibly stewed) with the skin and seeds removed.  Also called crushed tomatoes (although crushed tomatoes may still have seeds).

- 

tomato passata (UK, CA) (sometimes just 'passata') is strained tomato purée (US).

- 

golden syrup (UK, NZ) is dark cane sugar syrup (US, CA); corn syrup is an acceptable substitute (Farmhouse Cookery)

- 

rapeseed oil (UK) is Canola oil (US, CA, AU, NZ). (abbreviation for "Canada oil, low acid")

- 

vegetable oil (US, CA, AU, NZ, UK) is any flavorless oil with a decent smoke point.  It may be soy, corn, rapeseed, or a blend, but you can use peanut (groundnut (UK)), canola (rapeseed (UK)), or extra light (not extra virgin) olive oil.

- 

EVOO (US cooking show) is “extra virgin olive oil”

- 

oats (US) unless qualified are 'old fashioned' or 'rolled oats', not groats (which are sold as 'pinhead oats'), 'Steel cut oats' (cut up groats but not flattened, aka. 'Irish oatmeal'), nor 'instant oats' (flattened & parcooked). Oatmeal (UK) only refers to coarsely ground oats, whereas oatmeal (US) often refers to any cooked oat breakfast dish, aka porridge (UK). Porridge (UK) is typically made with rolled oats.

- 

granola (US, CA) is a cooked sweetened oat dish that may include nuts or dried fruit, and may be pressed into bars.  It looks similar to muesli (UK) which is raw oats, nuts and fruit.

- 

trail mix (US, CA) or Scroggin (NZ, AU) is a mixture of nuts and dried fruit.  It may include granola, seeds (eg. sunflower) or chocolate (typically in the form of M&Ms)

- 

Smarties (UK, CA, AU, NZ) are similar to the candy M&Ms

- 

Smarties (US) or Rockets (CA) are compressed sugar pellets (similar to PEZ tablets, but round with concave sides, packaged in rolls with twisted ends)

- 

Candy (US, CA) is sweets (UK) or lollies (NZ, AU). Lollies (UK) only refers to sweets on sticks, or to ice lollies, which are frozen desserts on a stick, i.e. popsicles (US)

- 

Fried egg in the UK and NZ is what Americans/Canadians call sunny-side up unless otherwise qualified.  The US/CA terms over-easy, over-medium, over-well and over-hard are typically unknown in the UK.  For a definition of the 'over' terms, see Explanation of different egg preparations .  (more details )

- 

Casserole (UK, NZ) is a stew, a mixture of bite-sized chunks of (typically) meat and vegetables that is cooked submerged in liquid at low heat for a long period of time.

- 

Casserole (US, CA) is a bake (UK, US) or hotdish (US), and refers to any mixture of food baked in a casserole dish (sometimes shortened to simply casserole), an oven-safe, relatively deep, typically ceramic vessel.  A casserole (US) is typically not as wet as a stew.  It includes dishes that are composed of pre-cooked ingredients and then mixed or layered in a suitable vessel and baked to finish.  (ref)

Cooking methods:

- broiling (US, CA) is grilling (AU, UK, NZ) which is cooking with heat from above as in some ovens or restaurant salamanders.

- grilling (US, CA) is barbecuing (AU, NZ, UK, CA) which is cooking with heat from below, typically on a metal rack over a vessel of burning wood or charcoal, or a gas burner.

- barbecuing (US) is slow cooking using wood or charcoal to impart smoke to the food. In parts of the USA (e.g Pacific North West) barbecue is used in the sense of grilling above.  This sense is also sometimes used in AU and NZ.

- barbeque (US, CA, NZ) (sometimes abbreviated BBQ) may refer to the either food cooked through barbequeing, or the device on which it is cooked.

- convection baking (US) means forced convection (with a fan).  convection (UK) typically means natural convection (vs. with fan)

Tools / Equipment / Non-food items :

- parchment paper (US, CA) is greaseproof paper (Ireland/ UK) and baking paper (AU, NZ)

- stove (US, CA, AU, NZ) is also range (US, CA, NZ) and hob (UK, rarely NZ).  Hob can refer to both the stove as a whole, or an individual burner (aka. heating element).

- crock pot (US, CA; brand name issues) is a slow cooker (US, CA, UK, AU, NZ).  Also slo-cooker (UK; brand name issues)

- food processor (US, CA, AU, UK) is sometimes a magimix (UK; brand name issues)

- canned items (US, CA) are tinned (UK, AU, NZ). Items 'canned' in glass jars would be described as either preserved or pickled (if in vinegar) in the UK and NZ.

- recipe (US, CA, NZ, AU) is sometimes called a receipt in other areas and in older usage (until early 20th century; more info).

- receipt (US, CA, UK, NZ, modern usage) is "a written acknowledgment of having received a specified amount of money, goods, etc."

- aluminum foil (US), aluminium foil (UK, AU, NZ) is often referred to as tinfoil (US, UK, NZ), which had previously been in use for similar purposes. It is usually shortened to foil or al-foil in AU.

- plastic wrap (US, CA), cling film (UK), cling wrap (AU) is often referred to as Saran™ wrap (US brand name) or Glad™ wrap (NZ, AU brand name) (although no one bothers to say the '™')

- liquidiser (UK) is a blender (US, CA) (Farmhouse Cookery). blender in AU refers to both a food processor and a liquidiser.

- skillet (US, CA) is a frying pan (US, CA, UK, NZ).  (a type of low-sided round cooking vessel with handle (pan (US)), with angled sides.)

- paper towels (US, CA) are kitchen towels or kitchen roll in other countries.

- dish towels (US), aka kitchen towels (US) or tea towels (UK, AU, NZ), are reusable cloth towels.

- Kitchen bench (AU, NZ) is the kitchen counter (US, CA), worktop (UK).

- a slice (UK) is a slotted metal spatula (US, CA).  Specifically a ‘fish slice’ or ‘egg slice’

- spatula (US, CA) is any tool with a flat, typically wide working surface. It may refer to a scraper (rubber spatula; silicone spatula), a tool for spreading (offset spatula), or a tool for flipping/turning food (typically plastic or metal), or a tool for stirring (wooden spatula)

Units of measurement & sizing :

- teaspoon (US, UK, CA , NZ) is 5 mL  (note: abbreviated 't' or 'tsp')

- dessert spoon (UK) is 10 mL  (although may have historically been closer to 15mL)

- tablespoon (US, CA, NZ) is roughly 15 mL (note: abbreviated 'T', 'TB', or 'tbsp') but a tablespoon (UK) is 17.7mL and tablespoon (AU) is 20 mL.  Historical British cookbooks may use an ~25mL tablespoon.  (more details).

- A stick of butter (US, CA) is 1/4 lb (113 g); the physical stick is marked into eight "tablespoon" divisions [slightly larger than an actual tablespoon, roughly 14g each]. A block of butter (UK, NZ) is typically 250g, and packaging is often marked in 50g portions.

- A knob of butter (UK) is somewhere around 2 TB (US), but is an inexact measure.

- A pat of butter (US) is between 1 and 2 tsp (5 to 10 mL), most commonly 48 per lb, or ~1.5 tsp.  (~9.5 grams, 7.5mL)

- A cup (US) for cooking is a fixed measure of ~236mL (8 fluid ounces, 16 TB, 1/2 a US pint); A British Imperial cup is 1/2 of an Imperial pint (~284mL)  Other countries may use a 225mL 'cup' or 250mL 'metric cup' (AU, NZ and some regions of CA)

- A cup of coffee or tea (when measuring electric kettles) may be based on 5 or 6 oz 'cups'.  Always look for the volume in mL or L when buying such items.

- A cup of uncooked rice (for rice cooker instructions) is 175mL, roughly 3/4 of a US cup.

- A pint (UK, AU, CA) is 20 Imperial fluid ounces (568.261 mL), while a pint (US) is 16 fluid ounces (473.176 mL).

- A gas mark (UK) refers to the dials on some British gas ovens (Farmhouse Cookery). The marks from 1 to 9 correspond roughly to 275 - 475 °F (at 25 °F intervals) or 140 - 250 °C (at 10 °C intervals) (more detail below)

- A tin (UK) of tomatoes is the sized tin can (in US, just called a "can") that it's typically sold in.  For many vegetables, this is a 400mL / ~14oz container, but is not a constant (for example, anchovies or tomato paste).  (ref; see below)

- Unless otherwise qualified, assume an egg is about 60 grams.  (a 'large egg' (US,CA), but a 'medium egg' in Europe).  (ref)

Q: Why add salt to the water when cooking pasta?

What is the effect of adding salt to the water when cooking pasta?

Q: Why would boiling milk in an electric kettle break the kettle?

Or: is it safe for the electric kettle's integrity and overall functionality to be used to boil non-water liquids such as milk?

*note: I know milk may burn onto the element and be difficult to clean out after, or it may foam up and out of the spout and make a mess. For the purpose of this question, please ignore any mess that may be left behind by these kettle-adventures.

I read this question on the Workplace SE which states:

  

I needed hot milk, so I boiled it in the nearest kettle to me, but I
  think I broke it, as water won't boil any more. I know this, because I
  tried it myself.

This has me wondering WHY boiling milk in a kettle would break it. Logically I think it should simply make a mess, not cause the kettle to cease functioning.

Q: What is this colored fiber in my chicken?

I smoked a whole chicken. When I cut into the breast I found this:

What is it and is my chicken ruined?

Q: Is it possible to cook a whole fish in a dishwasher?

I heard that there is a way to cook a whole fish in a dishwasher - any techniques, tips??

Q: How can I tell the difference between a rabbit and a cat?

I received a shipment of prefabricated skinned rabbit last week and the shipment seemed unusual. Rabbits have a very close resemblance to cats once their “hair” and skin have been removed. Is there a telltale sign that I’m working with Bugs Bunny, not Sylvester?

I have a suspicion that Elmer Fudd is running out of legitimate product.

All jokes aside, how do you tell the difference?

Q: How do you properly cook a steak?

I love steaks so much, that I would like to get a green card and live in the States just to enjoy good steaks whenever I want.

When I try to cook a steak at home (I live in Italy), it always turns out burned outside and almost totally raw inside. Actually only a thin layer is cooked (or I should say carbonized).

If I try to lower the temperature of the grill pan, I get an extremely dried meat that resembles cork.

So, which are the basics for properly cooking a steak (say, to a medium-well grade)?

Q: Do you heat the pan first, then add oil? Or put the oil in and heat up with the pan?

As the title says...

I personally heat up the pan first, then put the oil in and after it's heated up add the ingredients.  I go with the line of reasoning that doing it this way gives the oil less time to burn, thinking that if you do it the other way, by the time the pan and oil has heated up, the oil could already be starting to burn.

I've never experimented, but I think this is more of an issue with electric stoves since you can modulate the heat more quickly with gas, ie turn it off if the oil's starting to smoke.

Q: Is it safe to leave butter at room temperature?

Is it safe to leave butter at room temperature? If so, for how long is it safe to keep it out?

Q: Why use milk in scrambled eggs?

I've seen many recipes for scrambled eggs with and without milk / cream / half and half

So what does the milk do?  The only difference I can see is color - without the milk the eggs are a brighter yellow.

What am I missing?

Q: Why did my banana catch fire in the microwave?

Wow, that sounds like a silly question, but really! My wife froze bananas in the freezer with the peel still on. You can't peel them frozen. I put it in the microwave for one minute at 50% power. After 30 seconds the thin end of the peel (where a bunch connect to each other) was on fire, with a visible flame (about the size of a lighter). What on earth happened?

Q: Is it safe to eat potatoes that have sprouted?

I'm talking about potatoes that have gone somewhat soft and put out shoots about 10cm long. 

Other online discussions suggest it's reasonably safe and the majority of us have been peeling and eating soft sprouty spuds for years. Is this correct?

Q: How do you peel garlic easily?

How should I approach peeling a clove of garlic to get the skin off most quickly?  Is it different if I'm doing a bulb whole?

Q: Why do grape-flavored foods taste different than actual grapes?

Grapes are one of my favorite fruits, but I typically don't like grape-flavored foods. For example, grape jelly or grape candies (like Jolly Ranchers) have a distinctly different taste. I imagine some of the taste perception has to do with water content. Why is it so different?

Q: What knives are "required" for a serious home kitchen?

I consider myself a serious home cook. What knives are essential?

Q: Is it safe to put hot food in the fridge?

I heard that putting really warm food in the fridge right after cooking it is not the right thing to do. It might cause bacterial growth? Is this true?

Q: Browning Avocados - What Helps?

Years ago Koobz asked "Oxidized Avocado: What's Going on & How to Prevent It?" That question has been merged with this one because it's dealing with the same issue.

Recently, we had this question: Are limes and lime juice more acidic than lemons and lemon juice?. Now I'm just curious, I want an answer.

After Logophobe's answer to the acidity question, and my own research backing up that answer, I feel like I know less than I did before!

Lemon contains more ascorbic acid (Vitamin C) and citric acid than limes, yet limes are more acidic overall. Distilled vinegar is more acidic than lemons and almost as acidic as limes, Fruit Fresh is an extremely highly concentrated mixture of ascorbic acid and citric acid specifically developed to prevent browning in fruits.

So what works to keep avocados pretty and green?

Perhaps some experimentation is in order. I think I'll start with acids, since the common wisdom is that acid helps keep avocados green.

EDIT As of 1/8/15, I have added a new answer, as the highly upvoted one really only says what doesn't help. The accepted answer HERE shows the results of further experimentation, and what does help.

Q: Are rare burgers safe?

On a recent trip to France, I had a burger that was still pink in the middle. I know this is incredibly common in France (and it was delicious!) - but, as I understand it, it would never be allowed in the UK.

I'm aware that common wisdom is that mince needs to be cooked all the way through as any exposed surface area can harbour dangerous bacteria (so almost all of it, in the case of mince/burgers). Do the French take any special precautions when preparing food in this way? Is eating this particularly risky?

Q: What's the best way to season a cast iron skillet?

I just purchased a new cast iron skillet. What's the best way to season it? 

And if I need to re-season an old pan, is the process any different?

Q: How can I keep pasta from sticking to itself?

Whenever I boil pasta (specifically spaghetti), it always sticks to itself before I'm ready to use it. What can I do to avoid this without it becoming mushy (which happens if I keep it in the water)?

Of course, if I happen to have the sauce done by the time the pasta is ready and am ready to serve it, I can immediately add the sauce and it's a moot point. But I inevitably screw up the timing and have the pasta sitting there cooling, and then it becomes impossible to separate...

Q: Are there any advantages to freshly ground salt?

Recently, I've seen salt grinders sold in stores. I understand that freshly ground pepper has a plus over pre-ground pepper in terms of freshness and strength. However, salt to me seems like a mineral, as opposed to pepper which is, well, a pepper from a plant.
So, is there any plus in terms of taste and freshness to using freshly ground salt out of a salt grinder?
(I am obviously not talking about special flavored salts which contains other spices and herbs which would benefit from being freshly ground)

Q: Cooking away alcohol

When you cook with wine or spirits, when does the alcohol cook away? Obviously high temperatures will do it, but how low of temperatures will work? Also, does it vary by the type of alcohol?

Q: Any benefit to buy high-quality meat for a mediocre cook?

Quite honestly, I consider myself a mediocre cook as I am consistently able to make decent dishes. Nothing I ever make is fantastic and almost never terrible.

The question is this: will my cooking benefit from buying higher-quality meat even though my cooking skills are not fantastic? What improvements could I expect to see?

Q: Why did people start using CO2 (instead of e.g. oxygen) for carbonated drinks?

I am curious about why those who invented carbonated drinks chose to use specifically carbon dioxide in the liquid, instead of some other gas (say, oxygen).

(Obviously they wouldn't necessarily have been called "carbonated" if some other gas had been used, but that is besides the point.)

Is there some reason such as that CO2 does not dissipate from a liquid as fast as other gases, or something else?

Q: What cookbooks do you always come back to?

Like me, there are probably a lot people on here that have a lot of cookbooks, but I find I keep coming back to the same 1 or 2 books to give me the basis of most of the stuff I cook.

For me, I find myself coming back to the Jamie At Home book and Jamies Italy but I'm interested to see what other cookbooks others have as their "go to" cookbooks?

Q: Why shallots over onions?

It seems that in more advanced cookbooks and when watching professional chefs that shallots are used extensively. They seem to be used in the places where onions are in cookbooks which are aimed at home cooks.

I am familiar with the genetic similarities between onions and shallots. I have not personally cooked with shallots because they cost an order of magnitude more than onions.

If it is not just my misperception that shallots are preferred- what qualities do shallots have that make them more popular than onions?

Should I expect shallots to be much more expensive than onions or am I shopping at the wrong places?

In short- are they worth paying more for?

Q: What is the difference between white and brown eggs?

I always use brown extra large eggs, but I can't honestly say why I do this other than habit at this point. Are there any distinct advantages or disadvantages like flavor, shelf life, etc?

Q: In a tomato sauce recipe, how can I cut the acidity?

It seems that every time I make a tomato sauce for pasta, the sauce is a little bit too acid for my taste. I've tried using sugar or sodium bicarbonate, but I'm not satisfied with the results.

Q: What are some good resources for learning Knife Skills?

What are some good resources for learning knife skills? Specifically, is there anywhere that I can see video demonstration of different slicing techniques and when those techniques are appropriate?

Q: How dangerous is it to refreeze meat that has been thawed?

I've often been told by people that I shouldn't refreeze meat (particularly hamburger meat) once it has been thawed.  However, this seems a little silly to me.  I can't imagine how meat that hasn't been bought fresh and local could find its way to my kitchen with out thawing and being refrozen a couple of times.  How much damage can one more thawing and refreezing really do?  Can it really be that dangerous disease wise? Or is this just one of those urban myths?

Q: Is there a problem with defrosting meat on the counter?

I generally defrost meat on the kitchen counter. A friend of mine suggested that this was dangerous and suggested that I defrost meat in the refrigerator. I am no biologist but it seems to me that as long as the meat doesn't get warm defrosting it on the counter should be safe.

Generally, I remove the frozen items from the freezer and place them on a plate on the counter in the packaging they were frozen in. When they are mostly / completely thawed I place the meat in the refrigerator.

Am I wrong and should I be defrosting in the refrigerator?

Q: How long can I store a food in the pantry, refrigerator, or freezer?

How do I know if a given food or ingredient I have is still good, or if I should discard it?

How can I best preserve a food or ingredient?

  

This broad question is intended as a "general reference" question to quickly answer many how long will food keep for? questions. Please feel free to edit this question to expand and clarify as needed.

Q: What is the difference between a prawn and a shrimp?

Are prawns and shrimps the same thing or are they different? Basically, I think they're the same but one of my friends was arguing that they're similar but definitely not the same thing and they differ in size.

Q: Why wooden sticks for ice cream bars?

Why are wooden sticks usually used for ice cream bars?

This seems to hold for every commercial ice cream bar I have ever had, yet I can't find the reason... Why not use plastic instead, for example?

I am not an expert, but I presume plastic can be cheaper to manufacture...

Q: Why do you need to heat the pan before heating the olive oil?

In the Netflix documentary Salt Fat Acid Heat, Samin Nosrat says this when she is making sofrito and she is about to put olive oil into the pan:

  

This is one of those important things that I think home cooks always
  forget, is how important it is to pre-heat the pan. You have to heat
  the pan before you heat the oil.

Why do you need to heat the pan before putting the oil in?

Q: Why does plastic never dry properly in a dishwasher?

Whenever I get tasked with unloading the dishwasher, I'm always amazed at the amount of water that's still stuck (always in droplets) to our plastic kitchen utensils and storage containers. 

We have a dishwasher with three racks, but it doesn't seem to matter which rack you use, plastic spatula's in the top cutlery rack, plastic containers or cups in the middle rack or our plastic cutting boards or plates in the bottom rack, all are equally wet when unloading the dishwasher, while the regular cutlery, glasses, metal pans and ceramic plates are all perfectly dry. 

Why do the plastic kitchen utensils never dry properly in the dishwasher? And is there anything that can be done so the plastic does dry in the dishwasher? (besides using a towel or just waiting three days before unloading)

Q: How Did I Explode A Saucepan?

I am a complete amateur when it comes to the world of cooking.

My recent attempts to teach myself have unfortunately lead to me needing to ask:

How did I explode my saucepan?

I'd put some garlic/onion/olive oil in the saucepan and left it on low heat to soften on my electric hob. After about five there was a loud bang and I turned to find the saucepan falling through the air (which I just caught by the handle). The base of the saucepan had come away from the body. Cue jokes about taste explosions from my flat mate

I am fairly sure this wasn't supposed to happen.

The same thing happened when I was cooking meatballs with some onion on the side - though to a much lesser degree.

Did I just have a duff saucepan, or is there some explosive quality to onions I missed!?

On the plus side, the meal came out okay in the end.

Q: Why do we peel carrots?

So I was sitting there, looking down at my counter, realizing that I probably had a good carrot or two of shavings just going to waste.  (well, I'll compost it, but it's non-food at that point).

Is there any reason we peel carrots and don't just give them a good scrubbing?  I mean, the scrubbing works for potatoes (so long as they're not green under the skin), and carrots grow in dirt, too.  I don't think it's a pesticide issue, as we did it growing up, and I don't think we cared about pesticides back then.

I admit that sometimes there's odd crooks that might be harder to scrub dirt out of, but is there something fundamental that I'm missing here?

Q: Is there a quick, easy, mess-free way to peel an orange (or grapefruit)?

Just what the title says, I don't enjoy getting my fingers all messy and I don't like getting a lot of pith. Is there a better way than just...peeling?

Q: How is sushi supposed to be eaten?

Yesterday I was at a banquet that was serving sushi rolls. Some had rice on the outside and others had seaweed on the outside. I wasn't able to find chopsticks. In terms of etiquette is it alright to eat sushi by hand? If relevant I'm in North America.

Also, I heard it's a North American thing to mix the wasabi with the soy sauce before dipping the sushi in. How is the soy sauce and wasabi intended to be used?

It's my understanding the ginger is to reset the taste pallet so you should eat a little before switching to a different roll.

EDIT: but if you're provided with chopsticks, you should use them, right?

Q: Best way to remove fruit flies from your kitchen

I have a confession to make.

I was lazy, I didn't think it would cause any harm, but it did.
And now they are back. The fruit flies have taken over my kitchen, and I need help fighting them.

Story: I was preparing a must for homebrewing a batch of forest fruit wine. This all went well, the wine began fermenting and I was left with 4lb of warm soggy fruit mush. I tactically decided that the best place to dispose of this was in my inside kitchen bin.
Naturally the next morning I woke up to discover hundreds and hundreds of fruit flies in my kitchen, feasting on the fly-superfood in my bin.

Question: What is the best method of killing/removing the fruit flies from my kitchen? I have already emptied, cleaned, and sterilised the offending bin, but the flies seem to be okay with not having a food source anymore.
Will they eventually leave/die from lack of food? Can I drive them out with a smell or incense? Should I just commit mass insecticide and sweep them up afterwards?

Thanks :)

Q: Why did flatbread dominate the Middle East but Europe adopted raised breads?

This may be a history question so please move it if appropriate. 

Culturally, local ingredients dominate cooking recipes and national dishes (e.g., soy in SE Asia), but why do Europeans add a raising agent to bread items to make loaf bread whilst people from the Middle East still favour flat breads?

Were raising agents discovered in Europe and never migrated?  Is there a taste difference?

Q: How can I get chewy chocolate chip cookies?

My chocolate chips cookies are always too crisp. How can I get chewy cookies, like those of Starbucks?

Thank you to everyone who has answered. So far the tip that had the biggest impact was to chill and rest the dough, however I also increased the brown sugar ratio and increased a bit the butter. Also adding maple syrup helped.

Q: How should I poach an egg?

What's the best method to poach an egg without it turning into an eggy soupy mess?

Q: Why should I soak beans before cooking?

Every recipe says I should soak beans in water overnight before cooking. Why?

I did some experiments. I have tried soaked and unsoaked beans from the same batch. There was no difference in cooking time, taste, structure or color. Even farts were the same!

Also, one time I read an interview with a cook that makes famous bean soup and he confirmed my findings. He said that he also experimented and he doesn't find a difference.

So what is the reason for soaking beans before cooking? What does it change?

Q: What does the "bagel" setting on toasters do?

Usually, I put slices of bread in my toaster.  Sometimes, I toast bagels.  On my toaster, there's a little button that says "bagel".  How does this setting toast the bagel differently?

Q: What constitutes the majority of meat?

Looking at 100g chicken breast for example, I see that ~30g is protein and ~4 is fat. What is the rest of the 100g piece made of? Is that all connective tissues? Fiber? Something else?

Q: How do you funnel food off a cutting board?

After I cut or chop something up on a cutting board I have the problem of funneling the pieces into a bowl or other container and it typically makes a mess.

Normally what I try to do is scrape the pieces with a knife into the bowl or whatever, but inevitably some of the pieces miss and go flying off onto the counter or floor.

Is there a reliable method of funneling food off a cutting board into a bowl, cup or other smaller container?

Q: What is the point of a salt mill?

Salt mills and pepper mills often come in pairs.  I understand the purpose of the pepper mill: It breaks open the pepper corn and releases the aroma.  But there is, to my knowledge, no such thing as a salt corn, at least on the macroscopic level

So what do I gain by grinding the salt at the table or at the stove instead of just buying the smaller version to begin with?

I understand that there are different kinds of salt, but it seems they ought to be independent of the size of the bits.

Q: What's the ideal coffee to water ratio for a French press?

What's the ideal amount of coffee to use per cup of water in a French press? 

I've looked at various online resources, which all gave me a different amount. Some call for 2 tablespoons per 6 oz of water, others per 4 oz. Others said to use one or the other, and add water after brewing if it's too strong.

So what's the ideal blend for extracting the best flavor?

Q: How do I wash the "pokey" side of a box grater?

I have this box grater, and one of the sides is "non-directional" (not sure what this is called) -- that is, the pointy "blade" things are on every side of the holes:

Close-up:

The fibers you see are from ginger.

My question is: How do I clean this side of the grater?

- Sponges and rags get torn apart and the fibers are left on the grater.

- Brillo pads same deal, of course.

- I tried rubbing it out with my fingers but, you know: Ouch.

- Even scrubbing from the inside doesn't do much like it does for the directional sides of the grater. The food isn't stuck in the holes, it's stuck on the little points.

- Rinsing it under the highest pressure water my sink has doesn't blow away the food matter either, it's just all snagged there pretty tightly.

- I found this page about graters and the author there seems to just avoid that side of the grater specifically because of how hard it is to clean, so perhaps there is no hope here.

- I do not have a dishwasher. 

Even though the above picture has ginger fibers on it, I'm not looking for techniques just for this specific case (that just happened to be what was stuck on the grater when I took the picture). I have the same problem with this side of the grater no matter what I grate, e.g. cheese, even hard cheese, leaves bits of cheese there, which are slightly easier to remove with hot water than tangled fibers are, but still not easy.

What can I use to quickly and conveniently clean this after each use? The cleaning difficulty makes this my least favorite kitchen tool. I'm never excited when it looks like I have to use it.

Q: Why can applesauce be used in place of oil?

In many recipes, mostly desserts, it is suggested that you can substitute oil with applesauce to reduce the fat content. But why applesauce?

Is there something special about applesauce or are there other ingredients than can be used?

Q: Why is it dangerous to eat meat which has been left out and then cooked?

If cooking meat kills bacteria, and bacteria are responsible for problems with eating meat which has been left out, then why is it dangerous to eat meat which has been left out at room temperature and then thoroughly cooked?

A related question mentions that "Even if the bacteria is dead, toxins can remain if the food was out too long, causing problems".  However, there's no further detail given.  Are these toxins as dangerous as the bacteria themselves?  How long does meat have to be left out to accumulate a dangerous level of toxins and thus be dangerous even if thoroughly cooked?  Are these toxins the reason for the usual guideline of keeping meat unrefrigerated for a maximum of 2 hours?

update

The revelation, courtesy of Aaronut, that e. coli is actually dangerous because of its toxins — which cannot be denatured at temperatures which will leave meat in an edible state — has pretty much answered this question.  And also given me further incentive to stop eating meat altogether :)

Our discussion (see the comments on hobodave's answer) has progressed into the realm of microbiology.  Some highlights from my ongoing research:

Detail on heat-shock proteins.  These seem to be the reason for the importance of keeping meat at a high temperature for a period of time.

Some background on heat resistance in bacteria.  This also provides fascinating insight into how bacteria evolved immunity to antibiotics.  Fungi.

Q: How should I care for my knives?

I've finally put down the money to buy a quality knife and it's sharpness is amazing!

How do I take care of it so that the edge lasts and the knife stays sharp?

Q: What exactly is "Sushi Grade" fish?

What exactly makes some fish "Sushi Grade"?

Q: Should I rinse canned beans before using them?

Certainly, if I were making a salad with canned beans, I would thoroughly rinse them first. But if I'm making soup or chili with canned black beans or kidney beans, should I drain and rinse them first? Goya brand beans have recipes on the side of the can that call for undrained beans. 

On the one hand, I've heard claims that using the liquid in the can will increase gassiness, and that in some brands it can contain a lot of sodium. But I've also heard that it contains lots of soluble fiber that is lost if drained. Is there merit to either of these claims? Are there other nutrients that get lost if I drain and rinse? I always feel bad throwing out anything edible.

Q: Can I fry food with solely essential lemon oil?

Is it safe to consume lemon oil in the quantities that would be found in fried food? Could I fry corn tortillas, for instance? Would it fry?

Q: Why is my red cabbage suddenly turning blue when cooking, while it never did so before?

I've made fresh red cabbage (not canned or frozen) a few times. Back when I was still living with my parents, it always turned out fine. Now that I'm living on my own, I'm still using the same recipe, with one minor adaptation, which is leaving out the chunks of apple my mother always wanted me to add. I've never been a fan of those chunks, and I prefer eating mine with apple sauce, added after cooking.

But now, when I cook the red cabbage, it suddenly (and always) turns blue. The taste is still pretty much the same, it's just a colour difference. Still, I'm wondering what causes it, and if there's anything I can change to get it to look red again?

Q: Once a month cooking

I've heard of "once a month cooking" or "freezer cooking," where you basically spend a day cooking and fill your freezer with the next month's worth of food. This could especially come in handy when preparing for a baby. (Take-out food gets boring REALLY fast.)

What are some tips and/or resources for once a month cooking?

Edit: I suppose this need not be for cooking for an entire month per se. The idea is cooking in bulk ahead of time.

Q: Why does my food turn out poorly using an All-Clad Stainless-Steel Fry Pan?

I have an All-Clad frying pan, the precise one shown below:

http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00005AL5F

I made this purchase out of curiosity after reading about the benefits of this professional grade cookware (from the above Amazon link):

- Beautifully polished, magnetic stainless exterior layer.

- Pure aluminum core that not only covers the bottom of the pan but also extends up the sides. This allows for great heat conductivity as well as an even heat distribution so you won’t have "hot spots" when cooking.

- Stainless-steel interior layer/cooking surface.

- Long, polished stainless, stay-cool handles.

- Sturdy, non-corrosive stainless-steel rivets won't react with foods.

- Polished stainless-steel lids fit evenly with the pan’s edges to seal in flavor of your foods.

- The All-Clad Stainless collection is compatible with an induction stovetop (with the exception of a few pieces) in addition to gas and electric stovetops.

- The Stainless collection is dishwasher-safe, excluding pieces with a nonstick cooking surface. 

However, as a novice cook, I can't seem to cook anything as well using this pan compared to a non-stick teflon pan.  Food seems to stick or become overcooked easily or just not turn out well.

Have I fallen victim to a weak product sold on marketing hype?  Or am I simply too novice to properly utilize this pan?  What cooking skills might I be missing to properly utilize this tool?  What tools should I be using instead?

What reasons might there be for me sucking at using this pan?

Q: Why isn't Almond Milk (and other non-animal based 'milk') considered juice?

I consider "Milk" to be the substance secreted by living being to sustain their young, whether they be human, cow, dog, etc...

Almonds do not produce milk to sustain their young, in fact they are simply crushed. This reminds me more of juice than milk. So why don't people call it "Almond Juice"? Wouldn't this be more accurate?

The only reason I can think of as to why they would call it Milk would be to attempt to market it as a "milk alternative". Is that all there is to it? Or is there some defining feature that actually makes it fit the definition?

Looks like I'm not the only one who finds this strange.

Q: Why didn't microwaving a stainless steel spoon set my kitchen on fire?

I am a new, and newly sleep-deprived, dad. As such, I didn't think twice about taking a big, shiny, stainless steel spoon and sticking it right in a baby bottle sterilizer. ("I want this supplement to be scooped with a sterile instrument!")

Now, a bottle sterilizer consists of a large, sealed, plastic box into which you put a bunch of water. Put it in the microwave, and it's basically an autoclave. I sealed that sucker up and let 'er rip at 1300 watts. I then walked away and down a flight of stairs.

When I came back to my kitchen, everything was fine. The 3-minute microwave cycle was done, and my stainless steel spoon was apparently sterilized. Nothing was on fire, and the microwave seemed as happy as it had been. I, however, was mortified--and puzzled. I've read that only pointy surfaces cause problems in microwaves. But my spoons are fairly pointy, especially at the handle end:

Right now, I am provisionally chalking this up to God. But I must admit that I don't find my explanation quite thorough enough. Does anyone have a more specific accounting?

Q: Is it safe to eat moldy cheese if you slice off the edges?

Whenever my cheese gets too old and has a bit of blue/white mold on the side, I'm not sure whether I should throw it completely out or not. Is it safe to eat if I cut off the edge? Should I cut a bit off of all the sides just to be safe?

I'm particularly interested in the answer for cheddar cheese, but answers about other cheese are welcome.

Q: Mystery kitchen device with three finger loops, one attached to a sliding rod that passes through a ring

This is an oddball question but I am hoping someone can help me identify this device, which appears intended for use in a kitchen based on its location in a drawer full of other kitchen tools. As you can see it is about 4 inches long.

Q: When making batter/dough, why is it really bad to clean your spoon by hitting it on the edge of the bowl a few times?

Mom and I were looking at a holiday cooking tv-show a few weeks back, and during the part where the host made the dough for the oliebollen, he hit his spoon a few times against the bowl, to get rid of excess stuck to the spoon. Apparently, this was bad enough that mom felt she had to comment on that out loud (NOOO! You fool!). 

According to her, when making oliebollen (or any other kind of dough/batter which includes yeast), you should never hit your spoon on the bowl, as this will prevent the dough from rising properly. I've tried to look this up on the internet, but found no such claims/instructions nor any explanation of why hitting a spoon on the edge of the bowl would prevent the dough from rising properly. 

So, when making batter/dough, is it really bad to clean your spoon by hitting the edge of a bowl? If it is, why would doing so prevent the dough from rising properly?

Q: Should I refrigerate eggs?

I've read a lot of conflicting advice on whether it's advisable to store eggs in the refrigerator. The case against seems twofold: (1) that eggshells are porous, and eggs can take on unwelcome flavours, or even spoil faster in the fridge, and (2) that cooking with cold eggs can be problematic. But lots of people refrigerate eggs through perceived necessity.

Do eggs last longer in the fridge, and is the shelf life gain worth it? Or should I just stick them in the cupboard?

Q: Frying Oil Reuse

What are some guidelines or rules with regard to filtering and reusing oil that has been used for deep frying?

Is it safe and acceptable under some circumstances to filter and keep oil? If so, does it depend on which foods were fried? How long can the filtered oil for be kept for?

Or, is it never appropriate? If not, are the reasons health or flavour related? or both?

Q: Why wait for water to boil?

I've always heard that you should wait for water to boil before adding pasta/perogies/vegetables/etc.  What is the reason for this? Is it because it reaches boiling point faster?  If so, why?

Q: Why is some metal safe to use in a microwave, but others not?

This might be a more scientific question, but it relates to cooking and I thought it was interesting.

I just made my lunch which was a microwavable bowl of chunky soup.

The directions said:

  

Remove metal lid, remaining metal rim is microwavable. 

How can this be?

Q: How do you make a cake lift equally and minimize doming?

Some time ago, I baked a cake (Sachertorte to be exact).
The taste and texture was fine, so my recipe is okay.

My biggest issue was the shape. In the middle it was really a lot higher than on the sides.
I would like to redo it in the near future, but preferably with a flat(ter) surface.
(Especially since I put icing on top and I don't want it to drip off this time.)

Anyone knows the cause of my problem, or even better a solution?
I think I put enough butter on the side of my springform pan, in case this is an option.

Q: Are there any dishes that can only be cooked with a microwave?

I read this question for microwaving chicken, and it left me wondering:

Are there any dishes that can only be prepared with a microwave? If such dishes exist, what are their characteristics and why will in this case only a microwave work? What is the crucial difference between a microwave and other cooking methods here?

Searches I've done have come up with dishes that can be cooked using a microwave instead of using other appliances, but what I'm looking for are dishes that can only be cooked in a microwave and can't be cooked by any other method.

Q: Why let dough rise twice?

I'm just wondering, what's the point of letting dough rise twice? I've seen a bunch of recipes in the form:

- Mix dough together and knead

- Let it rise

- Knead again

- Let it rise again

Why do they do this? Doesn't kneading just push the air bubbles out?

Q: How do I get something sticky like honey or Golden Syrup off measuring spoons or measuring cups? Is there a better way?

When I put honey in a spoon or measuring cup, the residue stays and it’s hard to get all of it out. How do I make it all come out? Is there a way to measure honey without leaving honey on a spoon?

Q: What's the proper way to dispose of used fats & oils?

Down the drain? Does it depend on the type? With bacon fat, I usually let it solidify in a cup lined with foil, and then throw it out. With used canola oil, I'm not quite sure what to do because it doesn't solidify.

Q: What's the difference between a cupcake and a muffin?

I was debating with someone today whether what we were eating was a cupcake or a muffin, but realized we didn't really know the difference. So what's the difference between a cupcake and a muffin in American English?

In case you're wondering, what we were eating had a sweet batter, but not overly; had blueberries in the batter; had no icing or frosting; was perhaps about three fluid ounces (1 dL) big; and had been baked with a paper wrapper.

Q: Why drain soaked rice?

When cooking black rice, I’ve been told I need to soak it for a few hours, then drain and finally cook with 1:3 parts regular rice (i.e., topped up with fresh water).

Black rice is a type of glutinous rice, so I can understand the soaking stage. What I don’t get is the need for draining; especially given black rice’s nutritional content, which presumably partly ends up in that soaking water. Why is this done? Does it need to be done?

My best guess, if it does need to be done, is that it’s for some hygiene reason.

Q: When you cook spaghetti, do you add olive oil to the boiling water?

Many people (at least in Germany) think that Italians add olive oil to the boiling water for spaghetti. However, Italians tend to tell the opposite (from my experience).

So, can you please state objective reasons for or against adding olive oil to the boiling water for spaghetti?

Q: When boiling water without any other ingredients in it, why start from cold?

A question about probably the most mundane subject in cooking: boiling water.

For cooking techniques where you drop ingredients in simmering or boiling water - such as for vegetables, pasta, many rice recipes - I have often seen the recommendation that you start by putting cold water into a pot, then bring it to a boil. Why would you not start with hot water from the tap? It's going to be quicker than heating cold water, and your water heater is going to be way more energy efficient than your stove top at heating the stuff.

In particular, is there any physical or chemical process that starting from cold water encourages or prevents from happening?

(To reiterate: in the case where you add stuff to cold water and then start heating it, there clearly is a difference with starting with hot water; this question is about the case where you drop your ingredients in pure water that's already boiling.)

Q: Never ending soup; is it actually safe?

In the poor student or youth worker days it was popular to have never ending soup; a large pot on the stove that was topped up with new and leftover ingredients when available.

Normally the pot was stored in the fridge overnight.

Food items added were sometimes plate leftovers from fellow flat (share house) mates, who would in turn be eating the soup, too.

Most days other ingredients would be fresh(ish) vegetables, beans, grains, and fresh meat products sourced from the local butcher as money allowed.

Brussels sprouts where banned, and so were strong spices (you added those to your bowl before serving).

Also, for irony, a large (cleaned) stone is always left in the pot.

Fresh bread was sometimes baked in the oven while cracked bones were browning, but the oven was often an electrical and environmental death trap.

The pot kept going till the summer holidays, and no one got food poisoning in my time, or from any student stories I have ever heard.

This sort of activity is recorded in history as being a popular resource-saving idea.

Are there any real food safety implications with this method of cooking? And have any actual studies of this technique ever been published?

I still recommend this money-saving idea to current students, not keen on bad practices being continued though.

Q: Why is eating pretzels safe when they are bathed in lye?

I read many recipes of pretzels and they required to dip the raw dough in a bath of lye. As anyone should know for their own safety, lye is caustic and shouldn't be ingested.

What is the process involved that make them edible?

Edit: I am aware of the action of the lye. I wonder how the non-edible lye on the dough is transformed into something that is safe to eat.

Q: Why fry rice before boiling?

Ordinarily when I make fried rice, the general process is:

- Boil the rice until done.

- Fry the cooked rice in oil.

However, I recently made a different rice recipe which flipped the order:

- Lightly fry the dry rice in a pan.

- Then boil the rice until done.

This struck me as being really strange.  Why would I lightly fry the rice before cooking it? I usually associate frying rice with textural change, but after boiling it the texture wasn't notably different than if I hadn't fried it at all.

In both cases I was using a medium-grain white rice.

Q: How can you reduce the heat of a chili pepper?

There are many chilis that have amazing flavors but are so hot that it is hard for most of us to appreciate them. Beyond the standard suggestion to discard the seeds and cut away the ribs, are there any other methods that can lower the capsaicin level while retaining the other flavors?

This was asked on Dave Arnold's Cooking Issues podcast, and I'm not sure they landed on a solid answer.

EDIT: I'm looking for something that might cut the perceived heat by like 90% or even 100%, not just make it slightly milder. Something that completely neutralizes the capsaicin, not simply buffers it on your palate. (Starting a bounty).

Q: Is it bad to cook frozen meat without thawing it?

I wonder if it is bad to cook frozen meat (chicken, fish, beef,...) without waiting for it to thaw?

Sometimes, I realize I forget to take meat out of my freezer beforehand, when I am too hungry already.

Q: How do I know if food left at room temperature is still safe to eat?

If I left food out of the refrigerator for some period of time, is it still safe? If I left it out too long, can I salvage it by cooking it more?

Q: Why throw pizza dough besides for show?

What are the reasons to throw pizza dough beyond putting on a good show?

Related: How to throw a pizza dough?

Q: Is it true that bananas are radioactive?

Is it true that bananas are radioactive, and if you eat too many it can kill you? If yes then how many bananas are good to eat at once.

Q: How to Store Fresh Herbs

What is the best way to store fresh herbs like parsley or cilantro?  I find I have about the same luck with them whether they are left in a plastic bag or I put them in a cup of water.

Q: Is there something I can do to keep ice-cream soft?

I have bought a electric ice-cream churner, I have tried so many different flavours, different recipes, used alcohols.
Have read previous questions and a don't believe that leaving ice-cream out to thaw -scoop then refreeze is the only answer.How do the commercial companies keep them soft.
I generally find the next day it is fairly reasonable to scoop, but day after day -the longer it stays the harder it becomes.

Q: Why do people smash garlic?

It seems a lot of people say to smash or crush a clove of garlic before they cut it up. Why is this?

I've cut up garlic both ways, and I could see crushed being potentially a little easier to handle since it's flatter and doesn't roll as much.

Q: When I'm separating egg whites, how much does it matter if a little yolk gets in?

I was separating egg whites today and one of the yolks broke and contaminated my bowl of whites. I started from scratch, but I'm wondering if I really needed to; would a tiny bit of yolk (say, 1/8 tspn in 4 egg whites) mixed in with the whites make a big difference?

To provide some context, I was about to whip the whites with castor sugar to make almond macaroons.

Q: How do you clean a seasoned cast iron skillet?

I have a seasoned cast iron skillet, and I don't want to mess up the seasoning when I'm cleaning it.  What do I use and what don't I use to get it back to clean?

I've heard not to use soap and to make sure it is dry, but nothing beyond that.

Q: Why are there so many different pasta shapes?

Do the different pasta shapes serve any purpose, or are they just for fun?  Some difference appear to be cultural (lo mein vs spaghetti), but there are so many different syles of Italian pasta, is there a reason for this?  

Clearly there need to be differences for stuffed / not stuffed, but why do we have penne and ziti?

Q: Could coconut cream be used to create a non-dairy ganache for whipping?

A few days ago I made a batch of profiteroles and éclairs, with a minor twist:  For half the profiteroles, instead of chantilly cream I used a whipped ganache made from about 2 parts dark or bittersweet chocolate to 1 part each butter and whipping cream, then whipped it to a medium-brown consistency for piping into the cream puffs.  Needless to say, these ones turned out to be everybody's favourite and disappeared within seconds.

Then I got asked if I could make a non-dairy version, for various dietary reasons which I won't get into here.  At first I laughed, but after some further thought, it seems like it might be possible.  The choux paste uses only shortening for fat, so it would just be a matter of imitating the chocolate ganache.

I've seen various "substitutions" using soy or rice milk.  In my humble opinion, they taste wretchedly awful.  I also found a tip saying to use coconut cream, which sounds much more promising, but I haven't worked with coconut cream very much and have some concerns:

- 

Does coconut cream actually whip, or would I have better luck whipping coconut milk?

- 

Given that cartons of whipping cream are already loaded up with carrageenan, and the recipe linked above suggests the incorporation of starch - will I need to add emulsifiers/stabilizers?  Any ideas as to which ones would work best for this and in what quantity?* I don't need it to be stable for days, but it should keep for at least a few hours at room or refrigerator temperature.

- 

Are there relative perceived differences in sweetness between coconut cream and whipping cream?  Will I need to incorporate sugar to make up for the mild natural sweetness of whipping cream, or, alternatively, is the coconut milk/cream going to be too sweet?

- 

If I do need to incorporate sugar, would it make any sense to use icing sugar to act as a (partial) stabilizer, or should I stick to superfine and handle the stabilization aspect with dedicated additives?

- 

Can I rely on the coconut cream (or milk) whipping with the chocolate, or would I get better (airier/stabler) results whipping it separately (perhaps using an iSi?) and then folding it into melted chocolate (presumably adulterated with some water or butter substitute to prevent seizing)?  Or could I get even better results by doing both - whipping it separately, then blending and whipping the entire mixture again to full volume?

- 

Finally, I am pretty sure that I can substitute cocoa butter for the regular (dairy) butter, but is there any reason why this part of the substitution would cause problems?

* My instinct says lecithin and xanthan gum, but that's only because I know it works for a dairy chocolate/cream whip, I have no idea about coconut.

Q: Is it safe to eat smoked bacon without grilling?

The reason I ask this is due to the fact nothing on the bacon packaging indicates it can or cannot be eaten 'raw' and in general eating raw meat is a bad idea.

Q: Why skim "scum" from the surface of a simmering stock?

I've been reading various Googled recipes and techniques for stockmaking, as I made my first stock tonight using raw chicken bones. Just about every article/recipe I read says to skim the surface of the stock in the beginning, while it is simmering. Different articles variously refer to the skimmed substances as "scum", "impurities", and "proteins". 

I had started out throwing all the vegetables in at the beginning, and probably had it at too high of a simmer, so I never actually got to see any foam or collections of anything other than apparently oils/fats from the chicken appear on the surface. This got me wondering: what is that stuff that floats to the surface? Is there any reason other than aesthetics to remove it from the stock?

Q: What's the right way to hard boil eggs?

I find I always have trouble scaling the amount of time the eggs should be boiled, cooled, etc. for different-sized batches of hard-boiled eggs.

I've heard a variety of "folk lore"-type rules for how it should be done, but what's really the right way?

Q: How do I pick a watermelon at the supermarket?

Lately, every watermelon I bring home form the organic section of the supermarket has not been sweet.  Among the small, seedless varieties, I try to pick the densest. How do I know if it is ripe?  Can I ripen them at home?  Should I keep them in the fridge?

Q: How long can I keep eggs in the refrigerator?

To keep eggs useful and healthy, what is the average time I can keep them in refrigerator?   Can I freeze, and re-use them after melting, or will they be useless or not healthy to eat?

Q: When making sushi, why do you have to rinse the rice?

I'm interested in learning to make my own sushi. 

Every guide I have read has stressed that the rice has to be rinsed thoroughly.

The bags of rice I generally buy say not to rinse the rice in order to preserve the nutrients. What is the reason behind rinsing rice?

A: The electric kettle is (clearly) not designed for this. The main issue is that milk doesn't evaporate, whereas water (obviously) does. The secondary reason is that milk will burn.

Milk is a complex mixture of water, fats, and proteins. The fats and proteins will separate out from the water when heated, and form a layer on top. Unfortunately, this layer prevents the water from evaporating - it traps it. This is what causes milk to boil over. Incidentally, the reason potato or pasta water boils over is due to the starch.

The way kettles turn off is by steam reaching the top of the kettle, rushing down a tube and causing a bi-metallic plate to expand unevenly, tripping the switch.

No steam means the kettle will never turn off. Because the kettle doesn't turn off, the element continues to heat the milk next to it. With water, the hot water will rise, rather than stick to the element. This means leaving the lid open won't cause a fire - at least not until all your water has boiled away. Unfortunately, milk will burn, and this layer of burnt milk will prevent effective heat dissipation - the milk in contact with the element is not moving throughout the remainder of the liquid. This causes the element to get hotter than it is meant to.

However, kettle manufacturers have thought this through - they don't want their products to catch on fire (well, most don't) - even when they are misused like this. They will have included a small (one time) temperature switch, like this one. This acts a little like a fuse, but for heat, not current. They are often called "thermal fuses" for this reason. When the element reaches a temperature which has been deemed "too hot" (probably around 190ºC, perhaps a little hotter) this switch is tripped, and electricity can no longer reach the element.

This is normally a permanent state. You could open the kettle, find the temperature, voltage and current rating for the thermal fuse, buy one on eBay or Amazon and replace it (you would have to crimp, not solder, for obvious reasons), and be confident it was installed safely, in good thermal contact with the element. But if I'm honest, it's sensible to just buy a new kettle.

A: It's called deep pectoral myopathy or "green muscle disease", and it's a problem with heavy breasted poultry. The vessels are unable to supply enough blood to the muscle, with the result of death of the muscles affected. It's not detectable until the chicken is cut open. By the time you see the green colour, muscle death occurred a couple of weeks prior and fibrous woody tissue has developed. Since breeding practices for roaster chickens and turkeys often favor heavy-breasted poultry, this is likely to be found more often until that changes.

There is no odour or bacterial growth with this, and the meat itself is safe to eat, though no one would eat the green part. The Occurrence of Deep Pectoral Myopathy in Roaster Chickens, from The Journal of Applied Poultry Research, has extensive info available about it.

A: Concord grapes, which most grape jellies/jams/preserves in the US are made from, are derived from the (US-native) "fox grape" (Vitis labrusca) rather than (Europe-native) wine grape (Vitis vinifera). Common table grapes (the ones eaten as fresh fruit) such as Thompson seedless are also derived from Vitis vinifera wine grapes. 

Fox grapes have a "foxy" taste character, which is a result of the presence of the naturally occurring compound methyl anthranilate. Methyl anthranilate is a rather simple compound, and is used in many situations as an "artificial grape flavor". In many cases "grape flavored" candies, drinks and medicines are flavored not with grape extracts, but with synthetically produced methyl anthranilate. As such, these artificially flavored foods taste like Concord grapes (fox grapes), rather than table or wine grapes.

While it would be possible to come up with "artificial wine grape" flavor, the flavor profile of wine and table grapes is not dominated by a single compound, as fox grapes are. Therefore, any such "artificial wine grape" flavor would be much more expensive than artificial Concord grape flavor (i.e. just methyl anthranilate). As such, when companies reach for "grape flavor", they tend to go for the more inexpensive Concord grape flavor.

This also adds to the persistent expectation (at least in the US) as to what "grape flavored" means. Even if you came out with a wine-grape-flavored Jolly Rancher, many in the US would think it wouldn't taste right, as they expect grape flavored things to taste like Concord grapes.

A: The salt adds flavor, but it also helps reduce the gelatinization of the starch in the pasta.  The starch in food is the form of microscopic grains.  When these grains come into contact with water, they will trap some of it (think cornstarch in cold water), but when the water is hot they swell up like balloons and merge with each other, and you have starch gelatinization.

Another thing you may want to add to the pasta water is some acid (lemon or cream of tartar).  Tap water in most cities is made alkaline, which increases the starch loss from the pasta to the water, making the pasta stickier.

A: Can't comment directly due to rep limit, but I'm not sure Ryan Elkins above is correct. I'm fairly certain both allinase and LFS are found throughout the layers, though the "core" might contain a higher concentration. Certainly there's no gas contained in the central bulb.

There's a couple of basic strategies for avoiding eye irritation:

Avoid breaking cell walls: use a sharp knife

The enzymes and amino acids involved in producing the Onion Lachrymatory Factor (seriously!) are normally contained in the cells, and only become a problem when released in volume. Using a sharper knife will avoid mangling cell walls, creating more clean separations between layers, and reducing the amount of enzymes released.

Slow down the reaction: refrigerate/freeze the onion

I would guess the activity of both enzymes involved here peaks somewhere around room temperature, or maybe a little higher. You want to get out of this optimum range: either freeze the onion, or heat it beyond denaturation. The former is probably way more practical, since heating to denaturation will leave a soggy mess instead of an onion. You may also be able to deactivate the allinase by substantially altering the pH, for example by coating your knife in lye (not recommended) or lemon juice.

Avoid the reaction products: cut underwater or ventilate

The OLF and the reaction intermediaries look to be fairly water soluble, so cutting under running water should take care of them with sufficient flow rate. 

I'm not sure what the mechanism behind the common candle suggestion is, OLF is a thial oxide and not very flammable. My best guess is that the rising air draws some of the irritant up and away from the area, but in that case a fan should work much better.

A: Surely the authors of the previous (sublime!) answers will throw the "Sure it works in practice, but does it work in theory!?" at me, but this great SE question and its answers still lured me into creating an answer backed up by empirical evidence.

The Answer

YES! It's certainly possible. At least one successful attempt has been logged (see below).

The Experiment

The following equipment and ingredients were used in this experiment:

- Two whole trouts (each 230 grams, 28 cm long, thickness 3 cm).

- One salmon steak, cut in two equal pieces (90 grams each, thickest point 3 cm).

- Herbs: rosemary and parsley.

- Lemon slices (only on the trout, not on the salmon).

- Sea salt.

- Zip-lock bags.

- Microwave foil (only on the salmon).

- Dishwasher type: Bosch SGS55 (only sold in EU, it seems)

STEP 1 - Preparation

Salmon

- Wrap tightly in microwave foil with salt, rosemary, parsley.

- Put in zip-lock bag.

- Push air out of bag, close it.

Trout

- Salt, rosemary, parsley and lemon slices inside the fish.

- Alas: the zip-lock bags were too small, I had to cut off the head and tail.

- Put in zip-lock bag.

- Push air out of bag, close it.

STEP 2 - Enter the Dishwasher

- Rolled up the zip-lock bags a bit.

- Put one salmon and one trout bag in the top rack, the other two in the bottom rack (to test the difference).

STEP 3 - Program

Here's the tricky bit. I read up on sous-vide before trying, noting fish (particularly salmon) would need around 50° Celsius at a constant temperature. However, my main concern was that the temperature would not be constant enough to cook the fish: I was more afraid of under cooking than of overcooking. So I decided to run my experiment at this program:

- The highest program marked 70° Celsius

- Run for the full 137 minutes

- No detergent

- No other equipment (plates, cutlery, etc)

THE WAIT

With the dishwasher empty, the first bit of the program made an awful lot of noise, with cold water hitting the inside of the empty dishwasher. After that it kind-of returned to normal.

STEP 4 - Results

After 136 minutes I was standing in front of the dishwasher eager like a little kid waiting to open his Christmas presents. The dishwasher felt really warm, even on the outside. When I opened the dishwasher I saw one of the bottom salmon bags had fallen to the bottom. This is what the bags looked like when I got 'em out:

Then, with hands shaking, I opened the bags. This is the result:

Victory! upon closer inspection it turned out the fish were all perfectly cooked! We put some extra salt on and enjoyed them very much.

Conclusion

The answer is then a wholehearted "Yes: this is possible!". Try this at home!

A: The tearing of the eyes is a result of enzymes that form a sulpherous gas when the onion is cut (concentrated inside the inner core or bulb of the onion) being released into the surrounding air. 

You have a few options to avoid this - one would be to not cut through the center of the onion but to extract the "core". This is kind of a pain and means you are discarding a decent chunk of onion, so I don't like it too much. 

Another option is to use a fan to blow the gases away from you. A small fan next to you blowing horizontally should do the trick.

You could also wear goggles, although you'd have to leave them on for a while until the gas dissipates from the area.

Another technique is to cut a lemon in half and rub the fresh lemon against both sides of the blade. You'll have to keep "refreshing" the juice coat and your onions will have some lemon juice on them, so this is somewhat limited by that factor.

A: See the improved answer here: What DOES Help?

Which acid works best to keep avocados from browning?

Answer: None (of the acids tested)

It's not that acid doesn't do much to help.

ALL OF THE ACIDS TESTED CAUSED AVOCADOS TO BECOME MORE BROWN AND TO BECOME BROWN FASTER THAN NO TREATMENT AT ALL

I am not kidding.

Method

For acid, I used freshly squeezed lemon juice, freshly squeezed lime juice, distilled white vinegar (diluted to 5% acidity), and Ball brand Fruit Fresh mixed per package instructions, 2 tsp powder to 3 TBS water. Fruit Fresh contains dextrose, ascorbic acid, citric acid and silicon dioxide. According to the label, 1/4 tsp of the powder contains 230% of the US RDA of Vitamin C (ascorbic acid). That roughly translates to the solution I used having 100X the concentration of Vitamin C of lemon juice. I was not able find anything to give me a basis for comparison of citric acid concentration.

I diced 1 avocado and shuffled up the chunks so that no 1 pile had chunks from only 1 part of the fruit. I dropped the chunks into small bowls of the acids, removed the chunks, and allowed to air dry. They remained at room temperature for 24 hours.

I mashed 2 avocados together and put 50 grams of the mash into each of 5 small bowls. I added 1/4 tsp of each individual acid to each bowl, leaving 1 bowl plain. I mixed thoroughly and scooped the mash onto 2 plates, 1 to be refrigerated, and 1 to be left at room temperature. I washed and dried the scoop between changes in acid.

Results

The diced avocados just gradually became darker over 24 hours, with the vinegar treated fruit the first to show signs of browning, and ultimately the vinegar treated fruit became the darkest. The untreated fruit resisted browning the longest and ultimately browned the least. The lemon juice and lime juice were about tied, they both significantly sped darkening and ultimately became significantly darker than the untreated fruit. The Fruit Fresh barely made any difference, but the slight difference there was, was negative. Fruit Fresh also caused the avocado to become darker and to brown faster, but just barely.

At 24 hours all of the mashed, unrefrigerated avocado had become equally brown and unappetizing, it just happened faster to the treated avocado. The difference was most dramatic at 6 hours:

It's not clearly visible in the photo, but the Fruit Fresh treated avocado was ever-so-slightly more brown than the untreated avocado.

At 6 hours none of the refrigerated, mashed avocado was significantly browning.

At 24 hours all of the mashed avocado was the worse for wear. On the non-refrigerated side, it looks on this photo like the vinegar treated avocado ultimately fared the best. It actually didn't. I didn't think to snap a picture, but the vinegar treated avocado was the only one to discolor all the way through. The others were still green on the inside, the vinegar treated scoop was slightly browned even on the inside.

There came a point about 12 hours in that the refrigerated side just stopped browning. It had dried out, leaving it more green than the non-refrigerated side, but no more pleasant. All of the samples browned and dried out fairly equally.

At 48 hours I had one scoop of mashed avocado left that I cared to eat.

By adding nothing, keeping it refrigerated and covered in plastic wrap clinging to the surface, so that it had no air at all, this avocado is still fresh, green and ready to eat.

I'll add lime now for flavor, and some cilantro and cumin. Pass the chips.

Note:

I am honored that this answer has been so generously received, but the fact is, it really doesn't answer the question very well. This answer shows what doesn't help. As of 1/8/15 I have added and accepted a new answer based on new experiments that show what does help, it's HERE next to the checkmark.

A: Cooking in a dishwasher is related to some other non-orthodox places to cook, like on the manifold of a car on a road trip.

Basically, you're aiming to put food in an environment that's somewhere between 160F (71C) and 300F (150C) already, for non-cooking reasons. That's strange, but not entirely nuts.

The dishwasher is going to stay south of 212F (100C), but, a decent dishwasher doesn't stay very far below that threshold. 

It's going to go through several variations of how that heat's applied, from the actual washing cycle to the drying cycle.

And, if you run a regular cycle of dishes, there's going to be a bunch of foreign substances (soap, food bits from the dishes (and in the car manifold situation, things like oil)) all around it.

So, your goal is to wrap the food in something that can both handle the heat and seal out the foreign stuff. To me, the most obvious solution to this is the vacuum sealed pouches used for sous vide.

You're not going to get anything remotely close to the consistent temps for sous vide, but for the dishwasher, you're still talking about mostly cooking in "hot water" and hot, moist air, so that's close enough to give a shot. 

So, I'd fill the pouch with seasonings/marinades and let it ride and see what comes out.

I wouldn't expect it to be great, but it might be worth a shot for the shock value alone.

A: General comments on the shelf-, fridge-, and freezer-life of foods

The shelf-life is the amount of time a food can be stored before it is considered unsuitable for use. It may be unsuitable due to quality degradation (no longer tasty) or food safety (risk of food poisoning). [1]

As far as food safety goes, food stored frozen at 0°F (-18°C) or below is remains safe forever; only quality degrades over time. [2]. Thus the freezer-storage times below are entirely about quality. This temperature should be maintained fairly closely (within 3°C[6] or 5°F) and a defrost / no-frost freezer should not heat air surrounding the products by enough to heat the products more than that.

If your freezer is set at a temperature higher than -18°C (three-star setting), these times may not apply. Especially the safe storage time in one-star freezers (-6°C) is much reduced.

The times all assume proper storage. Freezers 0°F or below, refrigerators 40°F (4°C) or below. [3] Cans should be stored in a cool, dry place, below 85°F (30°C) [4]. The freezer itself should also be placed correctly: if the environmental temperature drops below 10°C (50°F), oil might be too viscous and work less well or damage the compressor[7], so please refer to the operating manual before deciding on an unheated garage.

The tables given here assume proper storage. Food which requires refrigeration is considered unsafe if left for over two hours at temperatures between 41–135°F (5–57°C) [5].
The Tables

Regardless of the table below, if a food shows signs of spoilage (including mold, with some exceptions described below), its past its shelf-life. Note that the lack of spoilage does not imply safety.
Uncooked Proteins

Item
Fridge
Freezer
Sources

Ground (meat, poultry)
1–2 days
3–4  months
[KC]

Non-ground meat
3–5 days
steaks: 6–12 months
chops: 4–6  months
roasts: 4–12 months
[KC]

Poultry
1–2 days
whole: 12 months
pieces: 9 months
[KC]

Eggs
in shell: 3–5 weeks
separated: 2–4 days
in shell: not recommended
whites: 12 months
yolks: not recommended
[KC]

Bacon
1 week
1 month
[CFG]

tofu
1 week
5 months
[CFG]

fish
1–2 days
lean: 4–8 months
fatty: 2–3 months
[CFG]

Cooked proteins

Item
Fridge
Freezer
Sources

luncheon meat
opened: 1 week
unopened: 2 weeks
1–2 months
[KC]

cooked meat and poultry
3–4 days
2–6 months
[KC]

cooked fish
3–4 days
1–2 months
[CFG]

hard boiled eggs
1 week
not recommended
[KC]

hard sausage
2–3 weeks
1–2 months
[CFG]

Dairy

Item
Fridge
Freezer
Sources

butter
1–3 months
6–9 months
[CFG]

hard cheeses
opened: 3–4 weeks
unopened: 6 months
6 months
[CFG]

soft cheeses
1 week
6 months
[CFG]

cream cheese
2 weeks
not recommended
[CFG]

Sauces

Item
Fridge
Freezer
Sources

mayo
commercial: 2 months
home-made: see below
not recommended
[CFG]

gravy, broth
3–4 days
2–3 months
[CFG]

For home-made mayo, there don't seem to be official shelf-life estimates.
Seasoned Advice has a question on this,
Making "long(er)-life" homemade mayonnaise.
Vegetables

Freezer times are given for cooked or blanched, then frozen. Generally, this is
required, otherwise enzymatic degradation will occur. See "Where can I go for
details on a specific food?" for where to find specific steps for each vegetable.

Refrigerator and shelf times are for storage raw.

If a column is , it means that storage type is not recommended. "Ripe" means
"until ripe".

Item
Shelf
Fridge
Freezer
Sources

Asparagus
-
3–4 days
8 months
[FK]

Green beans
-
3–4 days
8 months
[FK]

Beets
1 day
7–10 days
6–8 months
[FK]

Cabbage
-
1–2 weeks
10–12 months
[FK]

Carrots
-
3 weeks
10–12 months
[FK]

Celery
-
1–2 weeks
10–12 months
[FK]

Garlic
1 month
1–2 weeks
1 month
[FK]

Herbs (fresh)
-
7–10 days
1–2 months
[FK]

Lettuce (iceberg)
-
1–2 weeks
-
[FK]

Lettuce (leaf)
-
3–7 days
-
[FK]

Mushrooms
-
2–3 days
10–12 months
[FK]

Onions, non-sweet
2–3 months
2–3 months
10–12 months
[ST]

Onions, sweet
1–2 months
1–2 months
10–12 months
[ST]

Peppers
-
4–5 days
6–8 months
[FK]

Potatoes
1–2 months
1–2 weeks
mashed: 10–12 months
[FK]

Squash, summer
-
4–5 days
10–12 months
[FK]

Squash, winter
1 week
2 weeks
10–12 months
[FK]

Tomatoes
ripe
2–3 days
2 months
[FK]

Fruits

Many fruits must be at least partially cooked (blanched) before freezing in
order to deactivate enzymes that would otherwise degrade quality while in
storage. Some are best frozen packed in acid (lemon juice or citric acid)
and/or syrup. See "Where can I go for details on a specific food?" for where to
find specific steps for each fruit.

If a column is , it means that storage type is not recommended. "Ripe" means
"until ripe".

Item
Shelf
Fridge
Freezer
Sources

apples
1–2 days
1–3 weeks
cooked: 8 months
[FSG], [FK]

apricots
ripe
2–3 days
-
[FK]

bananas
ripe
1–2 days*
peeled: 1 month
[FK]

berries
-
1–2 days
4 months
[FSG], [FK]

citrus fruit
10 days
3 weeks
-
[FSG]

grapes
1 day
1 week
1 month
[FK]

juice
-
6 days
8 months
[FSG]

melons
1–2 days
1 week
balls: 1 month
[FSG], [FK]

generally:

3-5 days

*: bananas stored in the fridge will blacken. This is not a sign of spoilage, and they can be eaten safely.
Cooked dishes

2 hours on the counter, for all of them, unless you prepared a known shelf-stable item which generally does not go in the fridge (like cookies, or a canned jam, or others). It does not matter how long the individual components would have lasted on their own.

Refrigerated: generally 3–4 days in the fridge. This includes pizza, soups, stews,
casseroles, pies, and quiche [KC]. Some salads get a fifth day [CFG].
Freezer time is generally under three months. Rice is an exception due to the risk of bacillus cereus, the spores of which can survive cooking.  After cooling and refrigerating it should be consumed within 24 hours, either chilled or thoroughly reheated.
Infused oils

Putting any plant matter in oil (such as garlic, chillies or herbs) creates the danger for botulism, a rare but fatal disease. Thus infused oils are not shelf-stable. They can be kept in the refrigerator for 3-5 days, discard them earlier if you see cloudiness or gas bubbles. Or buy commercially produced infused oils, they have been treated with industrial methods to kill the botulinum spores.
Shelf-stable until opened

Item
Unopened
Opened, in fridge
Source

Commercially canned, low-acid (meat, poultry, fish, soups, stews, vegetables)
2–5 years
3–4 days
[CFG]

Commercially canned, high-acid
12–18 months
5–7 days
[CFG]

Olives
12–18 months
2 weeks
[FK]

jam, jelly, preserves
1 year
6 months
[FK]

shortening (Crisco)
8 months
3 months
[FK]

Pantry (not refrigerated even after opening)

Item
Shelf life
opened (if different)
Source

Baking powder
18 months

[FSG]

Baking soda
2 years

[FSG]

beans (dry)
1 year

[FK]

Bouillon
1 year

[FSG]

cornstarch
18 months

[FK]

extracts
3 years

[FK]

flour
white: 6–12 months
wheat: 1 month

[FK]

herbs (dry)
1–2 years
1 year
[FK]

honey
1 year

[FK]

pasta (dry)
2 years

[FSG]

egg noodles (dry)
6 months

[FSG]

rice (dry)
white: 2 years
brown: 6–12 months
flavored: 6 months

[FSG]

vegetable oil
6 months
1–3 months
[FSG]

vinegar
2 years
12 months
[FSG]

General tips for storing foods
How do I freeze fruits and vegetables?

Fruit. Ripe (but not overripe) fruit should be used. Wash them, and sort according to size. Working in small batches, remove pits, seeds, and blemishes. For fruits that turn brown, apply ascorbic acid or sugar and citric acid. Most fruits benefit from packing in dry sugar or a sugar syrup. Small, whole fruits (e.g., berries) can be spread on a tray and individually frozen, then packed in a freezer bag or other airtight container.

Vegetables. Most vegetables need blanching. To blanch, immerse in boiling water over high heat or steam over rapidly boiling water (steam). After blanching, transfer to ice bath for the same amount of time as blanched. Drain and dry. Freeze either by packing in a freezer bag with as much air as possible removed, or by allowing to freeze on a tray, then putting in a bag or other container.

General guideline is 8–12 months for best quality.

The above is a very quick summary of Iowa State University's Preserve the
Taste of Summer: Freezing: Fruits and
Vegetables. The
five-page document includes full details on over forty fruits and vegetables.
Feel free to ask here on Seasoned Advice if that guide doesn't answer your
question.
What about mold?

Some foods are expected to have mold in them (e.g., P. roqueforti in
Roquefort cheese). Unexpected mold, however, is something to be concerned
about. Mold can grow even on refrigerated foods, and even those high enough in
salt or sugar to deter bacteria. Some molds produce mycotoxins. Mold growth can
be minimized by cleaning the refrigerator every few months (use a mixture of 1
tablespoon of baking soda per quart of water, then rinse with plain water, then
dry), by keeping dishcloths, sponges, mops, etc. clean and fresh-smelling; and
keeping indoor humidity levels under 40%.

In general, the visible surface mold on a food is only a small part of the
actual mold growth. For most foods, any visible unexpected mold growth means
you should discard the entire item. There are several exceptions:

Food
How to handle mold

Hard salami, dry-cured country hams
Scrub mold off surface.

Hard cheese
Cut at least 1 inch around and below mold spot, do not cut through mold.

Cabbage, bell peppers, carrots
Cut at least 1 inch around and below mold spot, do not cut through mold.

Everything else, including soft or shredded cheese, soft fruits and vegetables,
bread, peanut butter, jams and jellies, sour cream, yogurt, luncheon meats,
casseroles, and cooked pasta should be discarded.

All this information comes from the USDA FS&IS's Molds on Food: Are They
Dangerous? fact
sheet.
Where can I go for details on a specific food?

The web site StillTasty maintains a comprehensive list
of food storage times, notes, and procedures for a wide variety of food items.
They draw information from a variety of reputable
sources and should probably
be the first place you check.

Another good source of information is the Food Marketing Institute's Food
Keeper. This is also a searchable database of foods.

Finally, if neither of those two references answer your question, you're at the
right web site. Please ask here on Seasoned
Advice.
Bibliography

- [CFG]: USDA FS&IS Cooking for Groups: A Volunteer's Guide to Food Safety. April 2026.

- [KC]: USDA FS&IS Kitchen Companion: Your Safe Food Handbook. April 2026.

- [FK]: Food Marketing Institute, Food Keeper. April 2026.

- [FSG]: Julie Garden-Robinson, North Dakota State University, FN-579 Food Storage Guide. April 2026.

- [ST]: StillTasty.com, Keep It or Toss It?. April 2026.

Note

This is a work-in-progress. I still need to finish adding information to it. Also, this answer is a community wiki, please feel free to improve it.

A: Try a butter crock. This will keep your butter fresh at room temperature for a fairly long time (weeks, not days).

A: Yes, it's true that bananas are radioactive, however, the amount of radiation that you get from eating a banana is negligible. It's also true that eating too many bananas can kill you, but if you manage to eat enough bananas to get radiation poisoning, you're going to die from something else long before potassium exposure comes into the equation - like, say, the death penalty after murdering the next person to bring a banana within 50 miles of you.

Source https://xkcd.com/radiation/

Bananas are on the left, third from the top. To better communicate the scale, the top legal (i.e. totally negligible) radiation dose for US workers is equivalent to eating 500,000 bananas/year.

There is actually a unit of radiation exposure measurement called the Banana equivalent dose. Suffice to say, there are about a thousand other sources of radiation in your day to day life that you should worry about before how many bananas you eat starts to become a real concern. You can safely eat as many bananas as you please, at least, from a radioactivity standpoint.

A: TL;DR: heating the pan before the oil has no useful effects in most cases.

While this is a duplicate of another question, I'm going to answer it again because that question's accepted answer provides zero evidence or citations to back itself up.  Which is important, because the accepted answer is wrong.

The popular myth is "Cold oil in hot pan and food won't stick".  Like most such cooking myths, this one is nonsense; as Kitchen Myths points out:

  

What you really want is “hot pan, hot oil” and that’s what you are actually getting because the cold oil heats up almost instantly when added to the hot pan. You’ll get the same results if you heat the oil along with the pan rather than adding the oil at the last minute. In fact some cooks prefer this technique because the appearance of the oil in the pan can give you some indication of when the pan has reached the proper temperature. 

Serious Eats says the same thing:

  

The thing is, only raw proteins will form this bond. Heat causes proteins to fold in on themselves, or even to break down and form all new compounds. Once in their folded or rearranged form, they no longer stick. So the goal is to get the meat to cook before it even comes into contact with the metal by heating oil hot enough that it can cook the meat in the time it takes for it to pass from the air, through the film of oil, and into the pan.

So, you want a hot pan with hot oil.  Most of the time, this means that you want to preheat the oil with the pan, not add oil to a preheated pan, although the latter doesn't do any harm.  It just doesn't provide any benefit.

You'll notice I said most of the time, though.  There are times when you do want to preheat the cooking vessel before adding fat, and both of those times have to do with needing to heat the metal hotter than the smoke point of the oil you are using.

- If you are cooking with a wok, getting proper "wok hei" (searing) requires heating the wok above the smoke point of vegetable oil, dry, a technique called "long yao" (video, skip to 3:22).  Classic cast-iron steak cooking uses a similar technique, heating the pan to 250 °C/500 °F before adding the oil or meat.

- When cooking with butter as your fat (or a few other low-temperature oils like unrefined coconut oil), the burning point of the fat is sometimes a lower temperature than you want to cook at.  If so, the only way to get the pan hot enough is to preheat at dry plan, add the butter or fat, and then quickly add the food before the butter burns.

Neither of these cases has anything to do with preventing sticking, though. They are both about not burning the cooking fat.  And the first technique only makes sense if you are using cast iron or carbon steel; it can damage other types of cookware.

You might ask: doesn't this apply to cooking sofrito, though?  And the answer is no.  Filtered olive oil has a smoke point of 210 °C, which is plenty hot enough for the very wet ingredients in a sofrito, which will drag the real pan temperature down to 105 °C or so in a few seconds anyway. Further, a sofrito is made up entirely of non-starchy vegetables and aromatics, which means that sticking isn't a serious concern.

So, myth busted!

A: This is a cherry pitter. The metal ring holds the cherry while the piston forces the pit out right through the cherry.

A: Even with a whole bulb, break it into cloves.

Put clove(s) on a cutting board. I usually cut off the root end of each clove. Lay a large chef's knife flat on the clove, then smack the knife to crush the clove.  This breaks the skin of the clove and makes it much easier to peel.

A: When in Doubt, Throw it Out!

You cannot always see or smell bacterial contamination. Mold that appears to be growing only on the surface may grow invisible roots into softer foods. Do not rely on a visual inspection or "smell test" to tell you whether or not a food is safe. It's not worth the risk - food poisoning can be much, much worse than an upset stomach.
The Danger Zone

- 

Per the USDA guidelines, potentially hazardous food that stays in the temperature "danger zone", 40-140 °F (4-60 °C), for more than 2 hours should be discarded. For temperatures above 90°F (32°C), the limit is 1 hour.*

- 

Potentially hazardous foods are those foods that spoil most easily, such as unshelled eggs, raw meats, fish, shell fish, dairy products, almost all cooked foods.

- 

This time is cumulative, so it includes time bringing the food home from the grocery store, time before cooking, time after cooking, and so on.   The reason is that while cooking may destroy bacteria or other pathogens, it doesn't always destroy the toxins that they have produced.

- 

In general, regarding perishable foods like meat, most dairy, unshelled eggs and shell eggs (in the US), cooked casseroles, and so on:  if the food (or its perishable components) have been at room temperature for more than two hours, you should discard that food.

- 

To avoid the danger zone, keep cooked food hot until ready to eat, then refrigerate immediately. Separate large items into smaller containers to help them to cool more quickly. If you’re defrosting something, do it in the fridge or under cold running water.

- 

If you can be certain that the food was not in the danger zone, then yes, it is safe. For example, if you left a large chunk of frozen meat out and it is still frozen solid (including the surface) when you come back to it, it was not in the danger zone.

Why is it so strict? / Why didn't I get sick?

These guidelines are about making sure you don't get a foodborne illness, i.e. reducing the risk to where it's so small as to not be an issue. So if you break the rules, e.g. eating food that's been left at room temperature for 8 hours, that doesn't mean you will get sick, just that you're taking a risk.
Why does cooking not completely "reset the clock"?

- 

Some bacteria leave behind harmful protein toxins that cannot be "killed" (denatured) by cooking. Cooking food is only effective against live organisms, not their toxic waste products. Spoiled food cannot be cooked back to safety and must be discarded.

- 

Cooking is pasteurization, not sterilization. Pasteurization means killing most microbes, so as to render the food safe for human consumption.  Sterilization methods (e.g. pressure-canning and irradiation) are the only safe methods for longer-term room-temperature storage. Otherwise, the danger zone rules always apply.

- 

Even sterilized food can only remain sterile under an airtight seal, e.g. when properly canned or vacuum-sealed. Once it is opened, it is no longer sterile. Air contains countless bacteria and molds, and their spores, which will readily re-colonize any suitable environment they encounter. Cooked food tends to be an ideal medium for growth.

What can I leave out longer?

For foods that aren't potentially hazardous as described above, there's no solid rule, but things are generally safe for much longer than the 2 hours given above. For example, things which are sold at room temperature (e.g. fresh produce, bread, or cookies) are most likely safe at least all day or overnight if not for days or even months. You can find guidelines for common things at StillTasty.
Regulation and Risks

Follow the guidelines set out by reputable regulatory agencies, especially when serving others. Local organizations include:

- FDA Food Code (USDA)

- CFIA (Canada)

- Food Standards Agency (UK)

Other regulatory sources apply in other parts of the word, but major food safety organizations usually agree in essence (if not in complete detail) on most issues.

Failure to follow reputable guidelines is irresponsible if you are serving guests, and failure to follow your specific local codes is likely to be illegal if you are serving customers.

Health codes tend to be very conservative, to fully protect the community.    You have the right to take risks on yourself by ignoring their recommendations, but please do not risk the safety of others.
Again, When in Doubt...

Once again, if you suspect spoilage or contamination, please, throw it out.

* Note: this is the USDA's rule. Other agencies may have variations on it. Additionally, government agencies generally make very conservative recommendations - they're trying to make sure that no one who follows the rules gets sick. Breaking the rules means maybe taking on some risk. That's up to you - just remember, eventually someone gets unlucky, and food poisoning is not fun.
Helpful Resources

- Wikipedia: Food Safety

- USDA Fact Sheet

- Still Tasty - has information on storage methods/times for almost every food.

Further Reading/Frequently Asked

- Why is it dangerous to eat meat which has been left out and then cooked?

- How long can I store a food in the pantry, refrigerator, or freezer?

- What Do I Need To Know About Temperature and Food Safety?

- Is there a problem with defrosting meat on the counter?

- How long can cooked food be safely stored at room/warm temperature?

- Is it safe to cook a steak that was left out (raw) for 7 hours?

- How long can eggs be unrefrigerated before becoming unsafe to eat?

- Should I refrigerate eggs?

A: In Germany we have an old (joking) saying that roughly translates to "head off, tail off - bunny", so your question is legitimate. But first thing's first: There is no health risk1 involved if you ate the latest shipment of "meowling rabbit". 
(To cat lovers everywhere: This is no endorsement, I have a much loved and pampered cat, too!)

The most obvious differences are

- head (look at the teeth!), 

- tail (short vs. long), and 

- feet (cat claws are quite distinctive). 

But I suspect these would be removed prior to sale, so we'd have to dig a bit deeper into anatomy:

- 

Shoulder blades: 

Cats' shoulder blades are rounded on top, especially in the front, making the shoulder blade almost semicircular with the ridge making for two differently shaped parts, rabbits' shoulder blades are triangular with the ridge somewhat parallel to the front side. 

- 

Femur (thigh bone):

A cat's femora are straight, whereas a rabbit's is more or less bent, especially pronounced in older animals. Same applies to a lesser extent to radius and ulna (forearm), but they might have been removed.

- 

Ribs:

Cats' ribs are "rounder" than rabbits' ribs according to this source. I can't say by how much, but @aitchnyu's comment below suggests the difference is obvious enough to play a significant role in the novel/movie Papillon.

- 

Pelvis:

The same source as above states that the foramen obturatum (= the loop-like opening near/below the hip joint) is oval in rabbits and round in cats. I couldn't find a good picture to show this, though.

Here's a rabbit:

Source: www.onlineveterinaryanatomy.net

And a cat:

1 other than the general risk every meat from questionable sources brings

A: One reason is simple appearance, I think - opaque white liquids or saps have long been called "milky", including nut milks, coconut milk, dandelion or milk thistle saps, and several other white substances.  Nut milks get called milk because they look like milk to the eye.

Another reason is that nut milks behave like milks in recipes - they are emulsions with sugars, proteins, and fats... fruit juices tend to have nutrients and sugars, mostly, they behave rather differently in cooking.  Almond milk was a long held substitute for animal milk in medieval times because it was more reliable - the nuts would be shelf-stable, while actual milk could spoil within hours.  It is worth pointing out that nut milks were substitute for so long because they worked in dishes calling for milk, at both the chemical level and for rough flavor profiling.

Also, it is probably worth noting that nut milks taste like milk, as well - a mellow flavor, very mild and a bit rich.  The flavor isn't strong or sweet like other juices.  They are different from cow's milk, true, but perhaps nut milks are not immensely more different from cow's milk than it is different from sheep's milk or goat's milk.

In the end, nut milks get called milk because they seem similar, and there's no other category they fit into more neatly.  If it is to label them as an alternative, it is a very old label, and for an alternative that works very well in nearly all applications.

Ps: if it helps, the nutrients extracted from the almonds into the milk were produced by the parent tree and intended to sustain the baby almond-plant... so the major difference is that the plant stores the milk in solid form, not whether it was meant for the next generation or not

A: I'm going to agree with Szczerzo about this being an anthropologic question, but I'm going to disagree about the cause.  While nomadic lifestyles was an influence, it's not causative.

I'm also going to ignore the distinction made about raising agents in the OP, because it's factually incorrect; most Arab/Levantine/Turkish/Kurdish breads use yeast.  Instead, I'm going to answer the distinction between loaf bread and flatbread.

Specifically: loaf bread is an aberration, not flatbread.  You find flatbreads around the world in every society that has access to any kind of grain anywhere.  Europe, Asia, Africa, Americas, Malaysia, everywhere.  Some are raised (yeasted) and some are not.  Some are filled and some are not.  All grains are used: wheat, barley, millet, rice, lentils, corn, etc.

Whereas: loaf bread pretty much only shows up in Egypt (and nearby) and in Europe, and there's good reason to believe that the latter two regions learned it from Egypt.  Thing is, loaf bread requires several different things to be easily and cheaply available in the same place:

- Wheat or barley (high-gluten flours)

- Ability to build brick, stone, or earthen ovens (this is where nomadism isn't compatible)

- Ability to cultivate starters (both the right grains and the right weather)

- Inexpensive, but hot, fuel for ovens (e.g. wood)

This combination simply didn't happen in too many places; either people lacked suitable grains, lacked cheap fuel, didn't build ovens, or simply never got started (the Babylonians appear to only have made flatbread, for example, despite having all the right ingredients and tools).

So it's really not so much a question of "why did X culture only make flatbread" as "why did these three places make loaf bread?"

If you're interested in this, I highly recommend the book Six Thousand Years Of Bread.

A: The best thing to do is very simple: use a very sharp knife and cut them quickly. This causes a minimal amount of the gases in the onions to be released.

As for "tricks", I find that placing a candle by the cutting board to burn off some of the gases released helps for me.

A: Not safe enough for me to try it. Potatoes actually contain a very dangerous toxin called solanine. This toxin is concentrated enough in the green parts in the plant to cause solanine poisoning. This includes the sprouts/eyes, and the potato itself if it's green.

This article from the New York Times health guide indicates that it is something to be taken seriously. Per this article, if the sprouts have been removed, and the potato is not green then it is safe to eat as far as solanine poisoning is concerned. 

However, a potato as far gone as you have described sounds disgusting. A soft potato is on its way to going bad. Where I am from, potatoes are cheap enough that it's just not worth the gross factor for me to eat a potato that has 10 cm sprouts and is squishy. I do eat potatoes that have little nub sprouts on them and that are slightly less than firm, after removing the sprouts of course.

A: It's essentially just water.

You can directly see this in the full USDA nutrition facts (link is for "Chicken, broilers or fryers, breast, meat only, cooked, roasted"). Per 100g, there is 65.26g of water, 31.02g protein, 3.57g fat, accounting for 99.85g. The rest is probably just trace nutrients and rounding errors.

You'll see the same kind of thing for other meats. Details vary by cut, but for example here's beef chuck eye steak (64.48g water, 18.86g protein, 16.35g fat), pork loin chops (69.7g water, 20.71g protein, 9.03g fat), and Atlantic salmon (64.89g water, 20.42g protein, 13.42g fat).

A: You've got a great pan and in a short time I'm sure you'll come to love it.

When using a standard pan (one without non-stick coating), heat your pan dry over high heat until you can hold your hand about 6-inches above the cooking surface and feel the heat radiating upward.  This allows the tiny cracks and crevices that are imperceptible to the bare hand to expand and when the oil is added, it will coat and create a more even cooking surface.  

Add just enough oil to lightly coat the surface.  Adding to much oil leads to pan-frying which is fine if you're frying chicken but not what you want when searing and sauteing meat.  There should just be a thin film across the bottom of the pan.  An additional benefit to first heating the pan is the fact that it will actually take less oil to coat the pan due to the decreased viscosity.  When the oil hits the hot pan it will instantly heat and should shimmer across the bottom like water on a freshly cleaned windshield.

You don't put the oil in the pan first because the longer oils and fats heat the quicker they break down and smoke.  If you were to add cold oil and cold food to a cold pan and then start heating, you just end up with a big sticky mess.

Make sure you're prepared to add the food to the pan once the oil goes in otherwise the oil will start to burn.  

The issue with burning and overcooking is going to be a matter of controlling the heat.  Start searing and sauteeing over high heat because as food is added it will suck a good deal of heat from the pan.  If it isn't extremely hot to begin with you'll end up with a steaming mess of gray colored meat or vegetables that aren't doing much cooking.  Once the meat is browned but needs further cooking you can always turn down the heat to prevent excessive browning and crusting before the interior is done.  

Even if you aren't planning to do a pan sauce, or if you've burnt what was cooking in the pan, you'll still want to deglaze with some water while the pan is hot (you can reheat it if it has already cooled down) so that you can scraped up the cooked on bits more easily and have less scrubbing to do when cleaning the pan.

A: CO2 tastes good! Carbonated water is actually a weak carbonic acid solution; this is what you taste. It's like "salt and pepper", but for water.

Slightly acidic water is usually popular, hence lemon juice is sometimes used to taint a jug of water in times when no carbonated water is available.

Carbonated water releases CO2 bubbles for many minutes after pressure is released (dissolved carbonic acid reforming), which is an important presentation effect that other gases do not generally have.

In many countries the local water supply is slightly alkaline (due to limestone rock being very common), and this can leave a bad after-taste, and make food in your mouth taste soapy. The addition of weak acids to water helps with neutralising this effect.

Around the world, some lucky towns have natural springs with effervescent water (carbonated water), and man-made carbonated water is just imitating this. In history people have often travelled great distances to try effervescent water, so its popularity is well recorded.

Nitrogen is used for water pressurisation in brewing and cooking as it leaves little or no taste, and generally does not form other chemical compounds. It's used mainly when bubbles are required, but not an acidic taste.

Oxygen is unsuitable for water pressurisation as very little can be dissolved at normal soda pressures, and it has no taste, but may readily form unwanted chemical compounds.

In the 18th century, Joseph Priestley was the first person to document this manufacturing discovery. He noted precisely that it tasted good, and that it was similar to the German Selters water. He was discovering "airs" (gases), and uniquely identified quite a few different gases. CO2 was the only one he listed as tasting good. His cheap source of CO2 was the fermenting grains from the nearby brewery.

A: There are three core essentials:

- Chef's knife

- 8" or 10" depending on your preferences

- Paring knife

- 3" or 4" depending on your preferences

- Bread knife

- As long as possible, 12"+

- Feel free to go cheap here, it's serrated and thus largely unsharpenable

You may want to check out Alton Brown's book, Alton Brown's Gear For Your Kitchen. He spends a chapter on knives and where to go past the essentials. He also suggests which ones are worth spending money on and which should be throwaways.

A: This is a myth left over from the days of iceboxes. Go to any official food safety resource online, like the USDA or FDA, and you will find that they are all in agreement: it's perfectly safe to put hot food in your refrigerator. In fact, unless you are using some more direct cooling method, like putting your food in an ice bath, waiting to refrigerate your food is often a health hazard.

For example, see 

- 

FDA — Despite what some people believe, putting hot food in the refrigerator doesn't harm the appliance.

- 

FDA — A lot of people think it will harm their refrigerator to put hot food inside—it's not true. It won't harm your refrigerator and it will keep your food—and you—safe*. (Page not found)

- 

USDA — Hot food can be placed directly in the refrigerator or it can be rapidly chilled in an ice or cold water bath before refrigerating 

- 

Washington State Department of Health — Fact: Hot food can be placed in the refrigerator. 

- 

Partnership for Food Safety Education — Fact: Hot foods can be placed directly in the refrigerator. (Page not found)

- 

Alaska Food Safety and Sanitation Program — Myth #10 "I can't put hot food into the refrigerator. The food will spoil if I do." —
The food will spoil if it is not quickly cooled! The leading cause of foodborne illness in the United States is improper cooling, such as leaving cooked foods at room temperature … (Page not found)

- 

Florida Department of Health — Hot food can be placed directly in the refrigerator if you divide large quantities into small, shallow containers. (Page not found)

These are just a few links I found in the first couple pages of a search; there are obviously many more. IMPORTANT NOTE: Particular precautions should be taken for large quantities of food; see below for details. But there are three common objections: (1) it will "overwork" the fridge, (2) it will heat up other food in the fridge to unsafe temperatures and cause it to spoil, and (3) somehow, the uneven cooling of the hot food in the container will cause it to spoil. Let's take these each in turn.

"It will overwork the fridge" — False in most cases

Lots of people worry about putting a quart or two of hot food in their fridge, but they wouldn't think anything of filling their fridges with multiple gallons of room temperature drinks to chill them, even if it might require the same amount of energy to cool.  Anything that is above the temperature of the fridge will require energy to cool.

Now if you plan on putting a very large amount of hot food into a small fridge all at the same time, it might strain the fridge. If you do it once in a while? Probably not an issue in a modern fridge, as long as it's not excessive. If you plan to do that on a regular basis, you should consider using ice baths or other cooling methods to pre-chill the food before putting it in the fridge.

It will cost more energy to cool hot foods in the fridge. If you are looking for the most energy-efficient method, it is probably to use a cold tap water bath, replacing the water a few times to bring down the temperature as fast as possible to room temperature. Then refrigerate.  Chilling with ice water is safer and faster, but it's not the most energy efficient, if that's your concern.

Also, in most cases it probably makes sense to wait until the food actually gets into the "Danger Zone" (below 140°F or so) before refrigerating; there's little safety benefit in putting a boiling pot directly into the fridge. Unless you're monitoring the temperature of your cooling food, though, it still is safest to move it to the fridge as soon as you can.

"It will heat up other food in the fridge to unsafe temperatures and cause it to spoil" — False in almost all cases.

This is the real myth that comes from the icebox theory. In an old icebox, you just had a block of ice, and no air circulation. If you put something hot in there, the ice would melt, the food wouldn't even get cool, and everything else would warm up and spoil.

That just doesn't happen in a modern fridge, as can be found out on reputable food safety websites, such as mentioned above. I've actually tested it myself. I once put a gallon of very hot soup in the fridge just to see what happened. I checked the fridge every 30 minutes or so by measuring surface temperatures of other foods with an infrared thermometer.  My fridge is generally around 35–36°F.  There was one item which was almost touching the metal pot that maybe reached 44°F or 45°F for a short time—above ideal refrigeration temperatures, but hardly enough to cause a lot of spoilage. All other items in the fridge—even many on the same shelf—stayed within a few degrees of the refrigerator temperature, 40°F at the most.

And this wasn't in some fancy fridge: it was actually at least 10 years old and a rather cheap model. The air circulation is enough to keep most other foods cool, unless you're actually touching them to the hot container. The radiative heat coming off the hot container will raise stuff around it by a couple degrees for a couple hours, but in a fridge kept at a proper low temperature, this should not be an issue at all.

If you have a very old fridge that doesn't work properly, or some weird new fridge that is super energy-efficient and doesn't cool properly, you might have an issue. But for anyone with a normal modern fridge, this is not an issue.

EDIT: Another question was posed in response to my comment here, and I documented there a more detailed experiment I carried out by placing a gallon of boiling water directly into my home refrigerator (admittedly a newer model than in the last experiment).  My results, in summary, were that even food items placed within a couple inches on the same shelf of the pot of boiling water were only heated by 3–4° for a few hours.  Other items in the fridge (on other shelves, etc.) barely changed temperature, moving maybe a degree or two at most.  These temperature fluctuations might be a minor concern around highly perishable foods like raw meats, but it is probably common sense to keep raw meat away from hot food and warm food in general.  Other items in a well-functioning modern refrigerator are unlikely to be negatively affected. If you don't believe me, here's another documented similar experiment with a large hot cheesecake put directly into the fridge from the oven.

"The uneven cooling of the hot food in the container will cause it to spoil" — Certainly false, compared to room temperature cooling.

In fact, leaving your container out on the counter at room temperature has a much, much, much higher probability of causing faster spoilage.  With some dishes, it is actually quite irresponsible.  There's a common belief that cooked food is "sterile," and by leaving it out with the lid on, it won't get contaminated.  But there are a lot of microbes that produce spores which can even survive boiling or near-boiling temperatures.  Many of them are kept at bay by competing with other microbes during the initial cooking phase, but after cooking, all that's usually left are nasty spores.  

Rice, for example, is commonly infected with Bacillus cereus, which forms spores that aren't destroyed during normal rice cooking.  Leave a rice dish out on the counter for too long, and you'll start growing a lot of that stuff, which can produce persistent toxins that won't be destroyed during reheating.  This sort of thing is actually the cause of a lot of food poisoning from eating things like leftover Chinese food: if the rice was cooked earlier and not held above 140°F, and then was allowed to sit in a take-out container for many hours, it could grow a lot of toxins.  It's often more likely to get food poisoning from the leftover rice than from a lot of other dishes that might seem more "dangerous."

Rice and Bacillus cereus are just one example.  You really want to get food down to refrigerator temperatures as quickly as possible after cooking.  Don't just leave it on the counter.

If you have a large quantity of hot food, break it down into small containers, and then refrigerate. Not all stacked together though; let air circulate around them.  Or put your pot into an ice bath or cold water bath.  Stirring periodically in an ice bath will make it cool even faster.

It's true that in a large pot of chili or something, the temperature of the center of the food will go down much more slowly and potentially could allow bacterial growth compared to outer layers.  That's the reason that large pots of food should be broken down into small containers.  But note that leaving a pot of chili out on the counter will make this bacterial growth even worse than if it is refrigerated immediately.

Even if you don't do any of these things and leave all the hot food in one large pot, it's still a safer strategy to put it directly into the fridge rather than leave it out on the counter at room temperature.

Important Edit: For large quantities of hot food, I am NOT advocating the practice of placing a large container in the refrigerator.  It may take WAY too long for the large pot to cool completely, and the food in the large container may be unsafe to eat.  Either break it down into smaller containers or use an ice bath.  However, it's still unlikely to harm the food in the fridge or the fridge itself unless it's in direct contact with the hot container.  And it's still safer than leaving the food on the counter to cool.

A: It would be dangerous to attempt to fry in lemon oil

Lemon & other citrus oils are primarily (90+%) made up of Limonene, which has a "fire diamond" of 🟦2-🟥2-🟨0:

🟥 Flammable

The red 2 indicates flammability:

Must be moderately heated or exposed to relatively high ambient temperature before ignition can occur (e.g. diesel fuel, paper, sulfur and multiple finely divided suspended solids that do not require heating before ignition can occur). Flash point between 37.8 and 93.3 °C (100 and 200 °F).

Limonene has a flash point of only 50°C (122°F). Canola oil & most "frying oils", by contrast has a flash point of closer to 315°C (600°F).

Note that the "flash point" is the temperature where flames & active combustion take place. This is generally a good bit above the usual "smoke point" which is used to rank cooking oils. The flash point is the more dangerous temperature, as it equates to fire.

This limits the feasibility of doing any cooking in citrus oils, due to their flammability. The high limonene content would render lemon oil to be a fire hazard well below "frying" temperatures. If you've ever seen a flamed citrus peel used as a cocktail garnish, you would have witnessed the flammability of citrus oils.
🟦 Health risk

The blue 2 indicates a health risk:

Intense or continued but not chronic exposure could cause temporary incapacitation or possible residual injury (e.g. diethyl ether, ammonium phosphate, carbon dioxide, iodine, chloroform, DEET).

As mentioned in another answer, even if flammability wasn't an issue, this could be dangerous. Contact with the skin can cause a rash ("contact dermatitis" if you're being technical about it) in certain cases.

Even if it didn't burn at such a low temperature, the quantity of limonene needed for cooking, and the direct contact with your mouth while eating would result in a potentially dangerous situation.

Small amounts are considered safe for consumption (and even used in supplements), but any significant quantity of lemon oil should not be consumed directly.

A: Oh, those cooking myths! 

Whenever you think you have heard them all, there's a new one. In a yeasted dough, the yeast is perfectly fine with being tossed, beaten and generally mangled. The little yeast cells couldn't care less about what you do in the initial stage of mixing and kneading. (That's obviously different when you consider the dough after the bulk raise: You want to keep the existing bubbles, sometimes more - think baguette or ciabatta - sometimes less, when you punch out the larger ones for a smoother texture, but I digress.)

What is an issue, is the kind of air that didn't come from yeast digestion and is safely entrapped in a gluten network, but the air that was beaten into the batter mechanically. In the oliebollen recipe I have, you make a fairly liquid yeasted batter and finally add beaten egg whites. Now, thats a material that doesn't take well to being jostled around. Just consider how carefully the egg whites are usually incorporated: There's even a cooking term for the method, you fold them in, instead of stirring like crazy.

Many bakers will handle a batter with incorporated egg whites very carefully, because they don't want to burst those precious bubbles1. But unless I am working with something super delicate, a gentle tap of the filled pan can help too-large bubbles rise to the top (and subsequently be pierced) instead of creating unsightly cavities or worse, darkened patches on the surface.

The kitchen rule of "don't bang the spoon on the bowl" may well originate from there - but then the rule applies to all kinds of batter with stiff egg whites. You can be on the very safe side and desist, but I am quite sure that it won't really matter if you tap gently. On the other hand, wiping the spoon with your finger or a spatula means you get all batter in your bowl, and not in the sink, which the frugal me appreciates.

Not tapping the spoon will also prevent chipping the mixing bowl, which in the past was often made of clay or ceramics, and avoid splattering.

1 That's something that fires back in macaron making, where you have to purposefully destroy some of the bubbles...

A: Well, it makes the eggs go further for one...

But it also produces softer, creamier results. You're moving toward something like a custard or quiche. If you like your eggs very stiff, this is probably a bad idea.

A: Yes, it matters a lot. When you are separating egg whites, it is for whipping them into a foam. This foam is a protein-based foam, relying on protein ends hooking into each other. Even small traces of fat will prevent the foam from forming. Egg yolks contain high amounts of fat. Once an egg yolk breaks in your whites, you have to start the separation anew, because it can prevent your foam from forming. Also, don't use plastic bowls for whipping egg whites (their surface retains some fat molecules even after washing, giving you a less stable foam) and only whip with a cleanly washed whisk or mixer attachment (not one you have just used for something else, not even if you wiped it clean). 

To prevent big mishaps, just separate each new egg in a teacup and only add the new white to the old whites after it has separated cleanly. Else you are in big trouble if you are separating a lot and the last egg contaminates the whole whites with yolk. And a single contaminated egg is easily reused for a quick egg-and-feta sandwich or something else. 

Contamination the other way round isn't so worrisome. You still want to work as precisely as possible, as yolk-only recipes will often have somewhat worse texture if eggwhite is included, but small contaminating amounts are usually not noticeable in the finished product, even in foams (zabaglione, mayonnaise). This is because yolk foams are fat-based, and small amounts of protein don't prevent a fat foam from forming.

A: This is sometimes called "pilaf style", though technically actual pilafs do not require the sauteeing step. It is, however, very common in pilaf and related dishes.

The main function of this is to change the composition of the starch on the surface of the rice. This reduces the starches that cross-link and make rice sticky. It helps your rice to cook up into separate grains.

While you're at it, it also adds some flavor to the rice, by caramelizing some of the starches. Plus, it adds oil, which can carry flavors of its own and help distribute fat-soluble flavors in the other ingredients.

The effect is very different from "fried rice", where the starches have already been cooked and gelatinized before frying. The goals are somewhat the same, adding browned flavors and distributing fat-soluble ingredients, but the chemical changes to the surface of the rice itself will be different.

A: Yes!

In 1969, the physicist Nicholas Kurti gave a talk in which he demonstrated a variant of Baked Alaska called "Frozen Florida": a shell of frozen meringue around a center of hot liquor. This was done by chilling the meringue and the liquor together, then cooking in a microwave oven which had a rotating platter and no stirring fan. Because the microwave beam was always heating the center but only intermittently heating any given part of the meringue, and because the meringue was low-density and frozen, the liquor could be heated while the meringue remained frozen.

(The idea was broadly similar to, and presumably inspired by, radiation therapy for cancer, in which a tightly focused beam of radiation revolves around a particular spot which may be deep inside the subject's body: only that single spot is always being energized by the beam, so it receives much more energy than the rest of the body does.)

A: It's caused by the high amount of potassium in the banana. Microwaves react with metals, bouncing off and cause arcing. You can even create a cool light show by putting a raw peeled banana in the microwave. Don't worry, it won't explode, but it will make a mess, it's also harmless.

This can also happen in some frozen vegetables depending on the soil conditions they grew in. As noted in the linked article, other high concentrations of metals such as magnesium, iron, and zinc can be the responsible mineral.

Momentary brief sparking is harmless and won't harm your microwave, but the USDA recommends turning off your microwave if you see sparks nonetheless. If it does start a fire, unless it's a very small fire, do not open your microwave door. The safest thing is to turn off the microwave and let the fire burn itself out by consuming all the oxygen. Opening the door could create a dangerous backdraft induced fireball. 

See Also:

- http://www.scribd.com/doc/1697458/USDA-Microwave-Ovens-and-Food-Safety

- http://www.inspection.gc.ca/english/fssa/concen/specif/veglegmicroe.shtml

A: The red in red cabbage is Anthocyanin, which is a natural pigment which turns blue in the presence of a base. Apples are slightly acidic, adding apples kept the cabbage's ph towards the acid side, keeping it red.

Adding a squeeze of lemon juice will do the same thing as apples.

A: The trick is that you're bruising the clove of garlic a little bit so the paper will release easier -- if you're using a bulb or less, it's not too bad to do the side of the knife press method.

... but if you're cooking up a recipe that calls for a dozen heads, there's an alternate trick:

- break the head into cloves

- put the cloves into a sealable hard-sided container much larger (10x or more) than the garlic

- shake the hell out of it for about 15-30 seconds

- pull out the cloves, and the paper should come off easily.

- if there's any cloves that are still difficult, shake longer, or more vigorously.

- repeat for the remaining bulbs.

You can do this with two metal bowls of the same size, pressing together the lip on the rims while shaking. I don't recommend plastic containers, as you might impart a garlic flavor to them that will be difficult to remove.

A: First, there is no difference between seasoning and re-seasoning, unless you need to do some extra work to remove rust (see instructions below). In fact, for new cast iron, scouring is also usually a good idea since you need to get off whatever wax or protective oil the manufacturer or seller may have put onto the cookware. (They don't use cooking oil for that sort of thing, believe me.)

- 

If you need to remove rust: use a mixture of salt and oil and scrub that hard into the rust, then rinse thoroughly in hot water. Use steel wool if necessary.

- 

Next, scour the pan completely under hot water. Do this for several minutes or until the water runs clean. I've heard varying things about whether soap or an SOS pad is OK at this step. My personal opinion is that it's OK, but you must wash the soap completely off before continuing with the seasoning so that your seasoning doesn't taste like soap!

- 

Coat the cookware with grease or oil. (I do this with the whole pan, not just the cooking surface, to reduce the possibility of external rust.) Crisco, vegetable oil, and lard all work well. Don't pick something with a low smoking point, or too strong a flavor. Make sure it's a light coating... you shouldn't have pools of oil anywhere on your cookware.

- 

Bake your skillet in a 250 - 350 °F (121 - 178 °C) oven for an hour. If you used liquid oil, you may want to put the cookware in upside down so excess oil drips off. But it's good to put a cookie sheet or something underneath the cookware to catch the drips if you do!

- 

Let the cookware cool, and wipe off any excess oil.

- 

For best results, do this two or three times, though a skillet can be satisfactory after a single treatment.

To keep the seasoning happy:

- 

Don't let the cast iron sit too long without using it (you may notice a rancid smell or flavor if the seasoning turns bad; I'm not sure at what point this happens, but it's happened to me before).

- 

Don't cook anything acidic (e.g. tomatoes) during the first or second use of your pan.

- 

Don't use dishwashing liquid or soap on the pan (hot water and scrubbing only).

- 

After cleaning the pan after each use, wipe it lightly with another bit of oil, using simple vegetable oil.

Another trick sometimes used to season Chinese woks: rub Chinese chives over the surface of the cookware when the oil is being heated (this works best on a stovetop, not in the oven). The juice of the chive has sulfur compounds that help remove remaining flavor from the previous coating of the cookware. Be aware that this technique really kicks up a lot of steam and smoke. I've never tried it on cast iron skillets, but I'd be curious if anyone out there has.

A: There is considerable overlap between cupcakes and muffins.

Method

From a technical point of view, muffins are made by the muffin method, making them small quickbreads.  In the muffin method, the wet ingredients are combined in one bowl; and the dry ingredients are combined in another bowl.  Then the two are quickly incorporated together with minimal mixing to avoid gluten development.  This gives muffins a somewhat coarse crumb.

Cupcakes are small cakes, and are made by one of the traditional cake methods such as the creaming method, the reverse creaming method, the genoise method, the chiffon method, and so on.  They tend to have a finer crumb than muffins.

Contrast

While no single criterion distinguishes a muffin from a cupcake if you do not adopt the technical definition above, the following trends exist:

- Cupcakes tend to be sweeter than muffins; there are savory muffins such as cornbread

- Cupcakes are often iced or frosted, whereas muffins tend to have no topping, or a simple crumb topping

- Cupcakes usually have a head or top no larger than the body of the cupcake; muffins are often encouraged to overflow their baking cup, so that their top is larger in diameter, giving them somewhat of a mushroom shape

- Cupcakes are almost always, well, cupcake shaped; muffins can be made as just muffin tops

- Cupcakes are almost never crispy or crunchy; muffins are often encouraged to brown and develop texture, especially on the tops

A: Not really in terms of flavor, no. Salt doesn't have a substantial number of volatile compounds that are released by grinding, in contrast to something like whole peppercorn, which releases a range of aromatics when the outer hull is breached. Even specially-sourced salts which contain a range of flavorful minerals don't really release them into the air, they dissolve into the foods they're added to instead, and/or are picked up by your tongue as you eat.

One advantage grinders offer is that a lot of them are adjustable, and can be tweaked for everything from a very fine grind to large crystals. This can be helpful depending on the effect that you're going for - seasoning popcorn with very fine salt vs. garnishing a steak with large crunchy chunks, for example. Smaller crystals with more surface area will generally tend to be perceived as saltier due to more taste bud contact, and will also dissolve into liquids (i.e. soups or stews) more quickly. I like using larger crystals sometimes for flavor/texture contrast and visual appeal for some dishes.

Another advantage mentioned by others is that finely pre-ground salt may also contain anti-caking agents to keep it from clumping together. If that bothers you, a grinder gets around this because larger pieces won't stick together as much before being pulverized by the grinding mechanism.

Some producers package salt in disposable grinders just as they do with pepper, and they share the same problems: cheap grinders simply aren't very good at getting a consistent grind size, or they have mechanisms which wear down quickly. Reusable grinders are often much better, and as you've seen they're getting very easy to find even in non-specialty stores. I like ceramic grinding mechanisms personally, because I feel that they get a better "grip" on the particles and are better at consistency, but good steel mechanisms will do well too. Here are some suggestions for care to help you get the most out of them.

A: Apart from water, rice is mainly made from starch. Starch is initially packed in a crystalline structure that is not soluble. However if you soak it for long enough or expose it to heat, the starch slowly 'unpacks' and binds with water, resulting in a soluble compound. This is called starch gelatinization, and is what you are aiming for when you soak your rice in water (note it gains volume!). But it works in two ways: now soluble starch molecules detach from the rice and go into the water. This is why it gets cloudy. 

The upshot is that this water is full of rice starch, and if you cook it will behave similar to when you add corn starch to water: thicken and form a glue. If you cook your rice in this water you should thus expect a much stickier result, with big lumps of rice 'glued' together. This is not always undesirable! Risotto is an example of cooked rice where we deliberately use this effect (so don't wash or soak your risotto rice).

A: This is a great question, but not one that can be answered with "yes" or "no". 

In some areas, it is known that the professional grade tools and ingredients require much skill to use well and so the general public is better off using consumer grade tools. (Try tasking the average office drone to create a report with Word or QuarkXpress and you'll see what I mean). But there is no such general rule in cooking. And yet, this does not mean that better quality meat will always make better quality food. It depends on the details of each situation. 

First, what does "high quality meat" mean? A filet mignon is a prized cut, and costs much more than shank. But even the best cook cannot make a good stew out of filet mignon. So in the first place, you have to know which category of meat is suited for the dish you are making. Only within a given category will better meat produce better results. 

Second, "quality" means different things to different people. A cooking beginner usually cannot recognize which meat will produce better results in the given category and goes by factors like price and store reputation to decide which meat must be better quality. This is not necessarily correlated to better taste. So, as a beginner, you can pick meat you believe to be better, but end up with worse results. 

The combination of these two points means that you should be aware of the difference between a "better" cut and a higher-quality version of the same cut. A "better" cut is actually a different cut, so it's a substitution that usually won't guarantee a better result. But a higher-quality upgrade of the same cut is likely to make a dish better. So, you need the cooking skill to tell a given piece of meat will be a good substitution for your earlier choice (a higher-quality version) or not (it is simply a better cut). Also, if somebody is trying to sell you a different version, you need to be able to recognize its quality (marbling in steaks, color intensity in pork chops, etc.)

Third, you can certainly find many cases where the more refined dishes, which need rarer, prized cuts, require a lot of skill to pull off well. So, if you decide to buy the "better" meat - as in the filet mignon vs. shank example - and have enough knowledge to match the dish to it, your skill might not be sufficient to pull off the dish for that meat well, while it would have been sufficient to make a good dish of the type for which the cheaper meat was suited. 

Fourth, for each dish, the relative influence of skill vs. ingredient quality will be different for the final dish quality. So, it is possible that for going from "horrible" to "kinda edible" you need to get some skill, no matter what meat you use, but the jump from "kinda edible" to "not that bad" requires better meat, not better skill. 

It is impossible to list all possible situations, dishes and meat cuts and say for each where the end result quality is skill-limited and where it is ingredient-limited. I am afraid that you have to be an intermediate cook before you can recognize if a mediocre cook can improve his results by cooking a given dish with better ingredients.

A: You will never fully cook away alcohol, only reduce the amount.  See Alcohol retention in food preparation, or for the quick table, see wikipedia.

They covered this on an episode of America's Test Kitchen, and concluded that surface area matters -- a wider vessel would cook off more alcohol; it wasn't just a function of time.

A: You can use the rule of thumb method to measure the "doneness" of the steak:

You loosely touch one of your fingers with your thumb depending on how well done you want it, and the tension of the muscle of your hand below the thumb will be the same as how the meat should feel when you press it.

A: Fundamentally, the reason for this substitution is that applesauce contains pectin.

In baking, the role of oil is to coat the flour, preventing it from combining with the water (or other wet ingredients) and developing gluten.  Gluten is what causes dough to rise, and also gives elasticity to the final product - what most people think of as "chewiness."

When you're baking, for example, a cake, or even a pie crust, you want to limit the amount of gluten that develops.  A cake or pie crust should be moist, light, and fluffy, not tough and chewy.  When you bite into a cake and find it very dry and bread-like, that is because it has developed a lot of gluten.  A good amount of oil or other fat leads to a lighter, moister, less-glutinous result.

The pectin in applesauce can also, to a certain extent, help to inhibit gluten formation in a dough, but the similarities end there.  I cannot stress this point enough, and I've seen many other online resources get this dead wrong: Pectin (applesauce) is not a straightforward or foolproof substitute for fat.

The mechanisms by which pectin and oil work in this context are completely different:

- 

Oil is a lipid.  Lipids bind to starch (including the ~75% starch in flour) and are hydrophobic - the traditional example of this is dew drops forming on the surface of grass or plants (the latter being the hydrophobe).  In a sense, oil forms a protective "shield" around the flour molecules.

- 

Pectin, on the other hand, is a gelling agent, and specifically a polysaccharide.  Pectin is not hydrophobic and does not actually protect the flour molecules.  In fact, pectin is of the same family as starches, which are also polysaccharides.  What's really happening here is that the pectin competes with the flour for water.  That means less water overall reaches the starch and gluten-forming proteins (giladin and glutenin) in the flour, and because of this, it is not able to develop as much gluten or gelatinize much of the other starch.

What does all of this actually mean for you, the baker?  Quite simply, it means you have to be very careful with this substitution:

- 

Too much pectin can turn your recipe into a jelly-like consistency.

- 

Too little pectin will fail to prevent glutenization (in other words, you'll get bread).

- 

Pectin has the property of syneresis - meaning that once it starts to gel, it also starts to expel liquid, and your dessert will dry out or deflate over time.

- 

Pectin is actually water-soluble at high temperatures (technically, it forms a colloid), it just happens to absorb a lot of water along the way.  Baking for too long, or at too high a temperature, will cause the pectin to break down and dissolve completely, making it useless.

There are also several other problems (or at least "gotchas") when making the apple sauce substitution:

- 

Applesauce is not just pectin.  It has a good deal of water and various proteins and acids, and even a certain amount of lipids.  The exact quantities, however, depend on how the applesauce was made, so it is very hard to get precise control over the amount of pectin, and the textbook 1:1 substitution ratio is almost never correct.

- 

Another thing that applesauce contains is sugar - even unsweetened applesauce.  You will almost certainly need to reduce the amount of sugar elsewhere in your recipe.  This may be difficult, especially if the bulk of the sugar is used as a dry ingredient.

- 

Applesauce behaves somewhat similarly to oil, but do not even try using it as a substitute for any other fat.  Butter, in particular, contains milk proteins which act as natural emulsifiers; pectin does have certain stabilizing properties but is a rather poor emulsifier compared to butter[citation needed].  And it goes without saying that the flavour is substantially different from that of applesauce; oil is "OK" to substitute for because it has very little flavour of its own.

If you plan on using applesauce as a substitute for oil in a recipe that does not specifically explain how to use it as a substitute, then I strongly suggest you do two things:

- 

Don't substitute the entire quantity.  Use 1/2 oil, 1/2 applesauce, or maybe 1/4 oil and 3/4 applesauce.  You will likely also have to lower the total quantity of oil/applesauce to approximately half of what it originally was (give or take 1/4).

- 

If you can, try this substitution on a small scale first, and experiment with the quantities of oil, sugar, and applesauce, before going all-out and putting it into the oven while your guests arrive.  It's very likely that on the first few attempts, you'll end up with something that's palatable, but nowhere near the quality of the oil-based recipe.

Ignore these disclaimers at your own risk!

A: Why the doming happens

When you heat leavened dough, two things happen:

- leavening agent creates bubbles, causing the soft dough to rise. For chemically leavened doughs (baking powder or baking soda), the amount of lift mostly depends on the time the bubble creating reaction goes on and the concentration of non-spent leavening agent.

- The gluten in the dough sets, building a sturdy 3-d mesh of long, branchey molecules. When the mesh is strong enough, further bubbles cannot stretch it more, despite the fact that the leavening reaction is still going on. The setting of the mesh depends mostly on heat and the amount of gluten present in flour.

The pattern you are seeing means that your cake gets hotter on the sides than in the middle. The sides get set early and stop rising, while the middle is still soft and continues rising.

This happens because the walls of the pan conduct heat to the sides of the cake quicker than heat is conducted inside the cake. You see the phenomenon in an exaggarated form in a muffin, which is usually higher than wide: it is always rounded on top, and often split, because the liquid core from the middle continues to rise after a crust has formed on the surface. 
How to prevent it

- Slower heating

One good solution could involve a slower, more even heating method.

This can be accomplished by using a pan which insulates well. With an insulating pan, the sides will stay liquid longer and rise more. Unfortunately there are no insulated drop-out-bottom pans.

Porcelain

I have had good results in a porcelain or Pyrex pan. The pan insulates the cake from the bottom and the sides, but not from the top, so you will need to bake it on a lower rack and/or reduce temperature on the upper heater in order to not burn the upper surface.

Getting a cake layer out of the pan in one piece can be hard.

To deal with this problem, if your batter is not too sticky, the bottom of the pan can be lined with parchment paper. The sides can be lined with a strip of parchment or well lubricated with fat. This approach is a hassle.

Insulate a metal pan

Perhaps, when combined with other approaches, a metal cake pan with thicker walls will work well enough.

You could also try a more DIY solution, like attaching 2-3 layers of a cut-to-fit silicone rolling mat stripes to the outside of the walls of a metal pan. However, it is quite hard to come up with a good attachment method (glue could release toxic fumes at oven temperatures, if it holds at all). So this method should work, but is somewhat hard to apply.

Glass and silicone pans

There are pans with glass bottoms and silicone walls but I think these would not help because the glass would insulate better than the thin silicone.

Preheating

Perhaps preheating the detached bottom of a metal pan with the oven could help, but I haven't tried it.

- Minimize the center

A second approach is to minimize the liquid core by making a thin cake.

If the middle of the cake is heated quickly enough from above and below, it will set shortly after the walls do, and there will be no unset center to "bloom".

Pre-shape the cake
If your batter is liquid, you cannot use this method. But if you are working with a batter that has a spoonable consistency, don't spread it level. Instead, spread it slightly concave, with a shallow dell in the middle. This will equalize while baking.

Use a bigger pan.

I think that Americans mostly use 9 inch pans, but if you used an original sacher recipe from Austria, it is probably meant for a 26 or a 28 cm pan.

Also, there is something I have noticed empirically, even though I don't have an explanation: if you bake the same batter in pans of different width, side-by-side in the same oven, and fill them to the same depth, the smaller diameter pans will tend to dome more. So, the size contributes a lot.

Bake the two layers separately

Divide the batter into two pans instead of making a single layer and cutting it. This is unorthodox, as you get more crust but it's better than a hunchbacked sacher. You should use a scale or at least a measuring jug to divide the batter, or you'll end up with different thicknesses. Also remember to reduce the baking time, as the core will heat up faster.

Use a toothpick for probing doneness.

- Reduce the leavening

The third idea is to reduce the amount of leavening agent.

The walls will always set before the core and, if there is enough baking powder, the core will still expand a little bit more. If the concentration of baking powder is low you'll get less bubbles, so less lift.

Of course, using too little baking powder will also ruin the cake, so you'll have to be cautious and experiment a bit before hitting the correct amount.

- Lower heat

The fourth approach is to give the outer portions of the cake more time to rise by baking at lower heat.

This is somewhat risky, as it can result in a different texture of the final product, due to the different rate at which water will evaporate from the dough and a longer baking time. Also, if your temperature is too low, you won't get a golden crust on a light-coloured dough. This should not be a problem for a frosted cake like the sacher.

- Less gluten

The fifth approach is to use a flour with less gluten.

With less gluten you get a mesh which is less dense and needs more time until it gets firm enough to prevent rising. Use cake flour instead of all purpose flour. A bit more fat will also help to inhibit gluten development but too much will change the taste and texture.

All methods I described should attribute to a solution, but probably none of them will be sufficient by itself. You'll have to pick a combination of them and see what works best for you.
General Cake Techniques

You should also apply all the usual methods for getting a good cake:

- measure with a scale

- use room-temperature ingredients

- sift your flour

- only combine dry mix with fluid mix at the last moment before putting it into the oven

- preheat the oven well

These techniques ensure a better batter texture, which means a more even heating. They will also ensure a more consistent leavening process because:

- the ratio of leavening to other ingredients will be correct

- the batter will be more thoroughly mixed

- the leavening reaction will not start early

Not following these techniques is more likely to result in a lopsided cake or a big bubble. I realize that this hasn't happened in the case you describe, but it would be too bad to get an asymmetrically risen cake after you took all the precautions against a disproportionally rising center.

A: Biologically speaking, they are different species, but the names are so commonly used interchangeably as to completely muddle the distinctions. For example, spot prawns are actually shrimp, while ridgeback shrimp are actually prawns.

Prawns have claws on three of their five pairs of legs, shrimp have claws on two of their five pairs of legs. Their gills and body shape are different, too.

As far as cooking them goes, they are virtually identical and interchangeable.

Source

A: Applying USDA standards (which may or may not be the 'same' as elsewhere, but (IMHO) serve as a reasonable standard for "Safe") Hamburger must be cooked to an internal temperature of 160°F [71°C] in order to be 'Guaranteed Safe', which is typically defined as 'well done'. 

On the other hand hamburger may be perfectly safe at medium rare to rare (120°F - 49°C) depending on how the beef was raised and processed. Actual cases of serious food borne illness from even raw meat are fairly rare (or should I say uncommon? ;) ). As far as I can tell the French are doing nothing 'special' to neither decrease nor increase the risks involved.

Many restaurants (in the US) will specify on their menu some thing like:

  

All burgers cooked med-well unless otherwise requested

A variety of circumstances from acid levels in the meat to the application of dyes may cause meat to appear 'pink' but be perfectly safe, ground beef may also appear to be brown, but may not be safe at all. Pink is not necessarily a good standard. 

Since you are unlikely to get an 'accurate reading' carrying your own food thermometer with you where ever you may go (if your food sits on the counter for a while before getting served the temp by the time it gets to you will be less), the best test to apply in a restaurant is 'cooked' vs. 'raw'

A quick Google search "Hamburger Rare vs. Raw" will display a myriad of images from which you may discern what you are comfortable with. 

  

By 'serious' food borne illness I am referring to things which might
  require a doctors care or put your life in jeopardy. While lower-grade
  illness maybe 'unpleasant' they are not necessarily 'unsafe'
  
  
  
  

"As far as I can tell" denotes the inability to prove a negative.
  Having looked through the Anses website, particularly their
  section on 'nutrivigilence' and 'animal nutrition and welfare' looking
  for any exceptional methods (radiation treatment, quarantines,
  chemical therapies etc) that might have the goal (even if not the
  effect) of making the beef supply more safe...I found nothing to cause
  me to believe that they are actually doing anything exceptional (over
  and above US or EU standards)

A: Italian here :) I know that the oil is a well known trick everywhere ... but Italy. The main problem about pasta is that people just tend to cook it too much. The cooking time for pasta should be between 8 and 12 minutes, above this number it will be sticky. Spaghetti is the quickest kind of pasta to get ready, so just cook it around 8-9 minutes and it won't stick.

A: See this excellent article about the chemistry of seasoning.  You want flaxseed oil (which incidentally has a low smoke point) but a high iodine value, allowing it to polymerize readily.

I read so many blogs about oil "impregnating the cast iron," but this doesn't make any sense chemically.  What happens is that the oil polymerizes, and you want an oil that does that really well.

A: The typical rule of thumb is that if it's a non-stick pan you do add a little oil to the pan first before heating.  Most manufacturers usually recommend this to extend the life of the non-stick coating.

For regular pans (those without non-stick coating) you should heat them dry until you can feel the heat radiating from the surface when your hand is held about 6-inches above the bottom.  Add your oil at this point.  You'll actually need to use less oil because the same amount will spread across a greater surface area due to its decreased viscosity as it heats.  Plus, your oil will heat up instantly and when you add your food it's less inclined to stick.  Most people get impatient waiting for pans to heat (and in general) and this also ensures that the food isn't going into a pan with oil that's cold or not hot enough.  When cold oil goes into a pan and cold food ends up on top of it you'll end up with one big sticky mess.  As for adding oil before heating the pan, the longer fats heat without anything else in the pan, the quicker they'll break down and burn.

A: Yes!

I just came across this, and it just so happens I could use an orange in a slaw I'm making right now.

Tablespoon Orange Hack

  

Simply lop off the ends, make a small incision in the side and carefully open to reveal easy-to-eat orange segments. (Or as I prefer to call it, an orange caterpillar.)

I did it with my orange, and I had never peeled an orange so quickly:

Now if you just want to eat the orange, you can just pluck off the segments as you pop them into your mouth. If you roll the orange around a bit first, before you lop off the ends (as in @Barry Staes' answer), it should make it even easier and more pith-free.

But what was really neat is that by prepping it that way, I had a pretty close approximation to supremes, supremely easily! (haha)

With two passes of the knife and 5 seconds of picking at it, this is close enough for my slaw.

Just flatten the "caterpillar" as much as you can with one hand, and with one slice (or two), cut between the peel and the segments. I just picked away most of the remaining connective "stuff" and membranes with the knife and my fingers at this point, but a pair of kitchen shears would  make even quicker work out of it. It's not absolutely perfect, the traditional method of supreming seen here would be the way to go if you're gunning for a Michelin Star, but this is fine for more casual applications.

With the practice of a couple more oranges, I think I could go from an intact orange to "cheater" supremed segments in less than a minute (and without getting my hands sticky!)

Pretty cool.

BTW, there is a pretty neat animated GIF on the linked page that will make it all clear if the pictures don't.

EDIT:

It works even better with grapefruit!

Open the grapefruit just enough to use a pair of kitchen shears to cut away the the connective membrane from the "points" of the segments (what would be at the center of intact fruit). While you're at it, remove any seeds.

Be careful when you roll out the "caterpillar" to separate every segment and to put pressure evenly on all parts of the peel. The peel is a bit more prone to tearing than orange peel.

Since the membranes between the segments are more like leather and less fragile than the membranes on orange segments, they are very easy to pluck away. This makes the supremed segments perfect. This gives better results even than the traditional method of supreming!

A: Clean your hands before you eat. Often, you will be given a hot towel for the purpose. Return the towel to the server neatly folded.

It is fine to eat sushi with your hand, as long as there is rice with each piece of fish. Sashimi (sliced fish not prepared with rice) should only be eaten with chopsticks.

If you sit at the sushi bar, feel free to converse with the itamae (sushi chef) if he's not too busy, and to order sushi from him. Do not order anything but sushi from him, order non-sushi items from your server. It is classy to ask the itamae to recommend a sushi item or even to ask him to surprise you. If there is something you know you don't like (uni is mine), let him know because it is very rude to not clean your plate. By that I mean don't even leave a grain of rice.

Mixing wasabi with the soy sauce is so common that you can get away with it, but it is considered kind of tacky, at least in a fine restaurant. So is eating ginger with a bite of sushi. You're correct that it is intended as a palate cleanser between sushi 'courses'. Again, if you want to, you're not going to get kicked out for it. In fine sushi restaurants, sushi is often not served with wasabi on the side. After all, the chef is an expert, he knows more about sushi than you! And presumably he knows how much wasabi should go on each piece of sushi. If you really want more, go ahead and add it if it's there, or let the itamae know your preferences in the matter.

Regarding dipping into the soy, try not to soak the rice of nigiri-zushi (shaped rice with a slice of fish on top). Just lightly dip the fish. Ideally, place the bite into your mouth fish down. Try to eat the whole piece in one bite. If you must, bite it in half but don't put the second half back on the plate. It's funny, but the video in @Mel's comment to the question shows tossing a big piece of sushi down pretty well :) Just know that the dunking it in soy sauce is a joke!

If you are in a part of the word where tipping is expected, tip the server and itamae separately. Often there will be a jar on the bar for tipping the chef. He would rather not touch money while he is working.

You can offer the itamae a sake if you're so inclined. 

Finally, leave your chopsticks laying across the soya bowl between uses, or on the holder if there is one. Never leave them on your plate or (heaven forbid) sticking out of your rice. 

Regarding your edit, not necessarily. It is completely optional to use chopsticks to eat rolls or nigiri. It is entirely up to you. It's like using the provided spoon to eat the usually provided miso soup. Drinking it from the bowl is totally acceptable.

A: You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan, if you have a strong enough exhaust. Oil the cast iron pan (with canola or such), then heat it very hot, until it starts to smoke. Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside (wipe with a paper towel, water will prevent browning) and gently place in the pan. Leave it there for a minute or two (it'll smoke quite a bit!), rotate 90° to get the nice grill marks. Leave for another minute or two. Flip, and repeat for the other side.

It may splatter, have a splatter screen handy. It will smoke, quite a bit, make sure the exhaust is on high.

You will probably have a medium-rare steak now. Using a thinner cut will make it more well done (you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef's knife, making two thin steaks); so will plopping it in the oven (not sure if you want the oven before or after searing, I like 'em medium rare...).

Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving.

Also, if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough, you're probably using the wrong cut of meat, or some terrible grade. What cut are you using?

[edit: I should note that, in case it wasn't obvious, the burner should be up pretty high]

Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan. If you are limited in your cookware choice, pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate. If you are using a non-stick pan, you have to go on medium heat and wait longer, else you'll damage the pan. (And sorry, but you can't get it as tasty as on high heat that way).

A: Stick it in the freezer for half an hour first. I just discovered this by accident (I went to get bacon out of the freezer and absent-mindedly put the onion I was holding in the freezer at the same time!) Alternatively, you can put it in the refrigerator, but that's slower, and if you leave it there too long the flavor mellows. Either way, you're making the problematic compound less volatile, so less will end up in the air to irritate your eyes.

A: The primary reason is for accuracy and reliability in cooking times. Boiling water is guaranteed (not accounting for altitude) to be at 212 F (100 C). With a set temperature you can then say things like "boil X for 9 minutes" with a very high measure of confidence.

You certainly can cook things in the water as you go, but it's going to be a lot more hit-and-miss. Pasta, for example, will begin to cook before it reaches the boiling point. You would need to measure the temperature, and check the pasta regularly to determine when it was done. You can't give someone an accurate cooking time with this method either. The time it takes for water to boil will vary greatly with stove heat output, pot size & shape, and the amount of water.

A: Back in the 70's, the folks at Mother Earth News performed an egg storage experiment.  They stored them in a variety of ways, both refrigerated and unrefrigerated, to see how long they could keep.  They concluded that unwashed eggs (aka, "hen fruit" or "cackleberries") stored in a sealed container, and kept at 35° to 40°F, were still perfectly edible after seven months:

(1) Unwashed, fertile homestead eggs seem
to store much better than washed,
unfertile agribiz eggs. Why? Probably
for the simple reason that they're
unwashed ... and not because they're
fertile. Hen fruit, as it comes from
the chicken, is coated with a light
layer of a natural sealing agent
called "bloom". And, while a good wash
may make a batch of eggs look more
attractive, it also removes this
natural protective coating ... leaving
the eggs more subject to aging and
attack by the air and bacteria in the
air.

(2) The very best way we've found to stash
eggs away for long-term storage is in
a sealed container at a temperature of
35° to 40°F. Their whites may become
somewhat runny looking over a period
of time, but even after seven
months—the cackleberries stored in
this manner smell good, taste good,
have a good texture, and—in short—seem
"almost fresh".

Update 2011-02-19: This discussion inspired me to do some experimentation of my own.  We keep chickens, so I plucked two eggs on October 2, 2010 and put them in the refrigerator.  I just pulled them out today.  Here's a picture of one of them next to a fresh egg.

One of these eggs was laid yesterday and the other was laid 140 days (4 months 17 days) ago.  Can you guess which is which?

Update 2011-06-05: I completed my eggsperiment today by cracking open two more eggs that I have had in the refrigerator since October 21, 2010.  Here they are:

There was no trace of odor, but the whites were definitely lacking in firmness.  I scrambled them.  They didn't make for very fluffy scramblers due to the watery whites, but they tasted fine.  So, I can confirm the findings of the Mother Earth News experiment.  Fresh, unwashed eggs stored in the refrigerator were perfectly edible after 7 months 15 days (227 days)!

A: I have a few ways of dealing with this:

- When using a small cutting board, use a bowl that's wider than the (smallest) dimension of the cutting board. If you can manage to swing (not fling!) the cutting board upright above the bowl, everything will fall into the bowl. Especially if the bowl is a bit wider than the board. Don't catapult your food off the board, but try to do it reasonably quickly so the board is upright before the food has slid/fallen off. 

- When using a large cutting board, I put the board flush with the edge of the counter. I hold a bowl next to the counter, and because I'm not relying on gravity, I'm able to very precisely push things off the board bit by bit (as others mentioned, use your hands or the back of your knife). If you have a circular bowl, you may want to create some overhang with the cutting board, so the edge is above the widest part of the bowl.

- You can achieve a similar effect by putting the bowl in the sink and your cutting board next to and flush with the sink.

- If the food is going to be cooked together anyway, favor using a big bowl for everything rather than several small bowls to put everything in separately. Less washing up, less change of missing a big bowl when dropping food into it.

- When cutting large chunks, you can always just use your hands to pick things up. My mother would use a spatula and her hands and she should move quite a lot of food that way.

- If you have a cutting board with a handle, you can actually use the handle as a mini-funnel.

- With a bit of dexterity, you can make a V-shape by holding the back of the knife to the edge of the cutting board, and use that similar to the folding cutting board that moscafj linked. It only really works for smaller piles of food (depends on how wide your knife is, I guess).

- My grandmother's trick #1: Pile the cut food, put a cup/bowl over it. Flip the board+cup. Take away the board.

- My grandmother's trick #2: Pile the cut food, put a cup/bowl/your hand over it. Hold the board over a bigger bowl. While holding the cup/bowl/your hand in place, pull back the cutting board, so the food slides off the board and falls into the bigger bowl.

Which method I use depends on the food, amount, cut size, and what bowls I have available. I have a fair amount of plastic bowls specifically to simplify the whole cutting-and-storing part of our rather large meal preps.

A: Shallots certainly aren't more popular than onions, otherwise they'd be far more abundant and less expensive.

I do cook with shallots from time to time and would describe them as most people describe them - as somewhere between the flavour of garlic and onion, but also a good deal milder/sweeter.

I prefer to use them simply when I do not want the strong taste of onions.  In fact, many of us are so accustomed to the harsh taste of onions that it's actually quite a surprise to find out how much better a certain dish might taste by substituting shallots.

They're especially common in Asian cooking, I find.  Very often you're providing a lot of spice or heat from other ingredients - chilies, five spice, curry powder, etc. - and don't want the overwhelming pungency of onions mixed in.  Shallots give just a little bit of "sharpness" without much of the sulfur taste.

Would I substitute them everywhere?  Absolutely not.  Some recipes really do call for the pungency of onions, for example almost anything involving ground beef.  But try it at least once - get yourself a bag of shallots and try substituting them for onions in a few recipes.  You may be pleasantly surprised.

I would say that ideal recipes to try this on, if you're unfamiliar with shallots, are stovetop recipes calling for a relatively small amount of chopped or sliced (not minced) onion; stir fries are ideal, which perhaps is why they seem to be so common in Asian cuisine. 

Also, as far as pricing is concerned: Locally, where a 2 lb bag of onions might cost $1.99, a 1 lb bag of shallots would cost $1.49, which makes them roughly 50% more expensive, very far from an "order of magnitude."  If you meant that literally and are finding them close to 10x more expensive than onions, then you are either shopping at the wrong stores or living in an area where they are hard to find.  Try an Asian grocery store if you have one; they can usually be found for dirt cheap in those.

A: A study conducted by the US Department of Agriculture’s Nutrient Data Laboratory calculated the percentage of alcohol remaining in a dish based on various cooking methods. The results are as follows:

Preparation Method and Percent of Alcohol Retained

- alcohol added to boiling liquid & removed from heat:  85%

- alcohol flamed: 75%

- no heat, stored overnight: 70%

- baked, 25 minutes, alcohol not stirred into mixture: 45%

- 

baked/simmered, alcohol stirred into mixture:      

- 15 minutes - 40%

- 30 minutes - 35%

- 1 hour - 25%

- 1.5 hours - 20%

- 2 hours - 10%

- 2.5 hours - 5%

These data come from the USDA Table of Nutrient Retention Factors Release 6 [PDF]. The information is in the table on page 12 of the document (page 14 of the PDF file). In case that link goes dead (sorry that the screenshot is somewhat small).

A: TL; DR 

Vitamin C (ascorbic acid) works to slow, even halt the browning of avocados, even in the face of salt, vinegar (in salsa), and lime juice, all of which have been shown (or will be shown) to speed browning. At a concentration of 100mg per 50 grams of avocado, it is also virtually tasteless.

You can buy pure ascorbic acid powder, which I did and then promptly lost, or you can use a spice grinder to grind very pure tablets, which I also did. My tablets weighed .59 grams per 500mg tablet, so close enough. I also tasted the powder and it really had no unpleasant chemical flavor, just a bit of acid effervescence feeling. You don't need to dissolve the powder, you can just stir it into mashed avocado. To keep sliced or diced avocados green, mix 1/2 tsp of the powder in 1 TBS of water (it will take some effort to get it mixed, but it will mix) and paint it on the surface or dunk in chunks, let them dry and refrigerate, covered.

As shown in earlier experimentation, cutting off all air significantly slows browning. That means not just a lid on Tupperware, but vacuum sealing, a sealed Ziploc bag with the air removed, or at least Saran Wrap* actually on the surface of the avocado. The same principle applies to adding a layer of water, sour cream, or salsa over the surface of the avocado.

Enclosing the avocado with diced red onion significantly slows browning as long as the container stays closed. 

*I specify the brand name of the plastic wrap because I have learned that permeability of plastic wrap varies, and Saran Wrap is the brand I’ve tested.

As Ogrecon’s answer says, diced red onions slow down browning significantly, as long as the container that holds the onions and avocado remains closed and airtight. The onions release propanethiol S-oxide gas (that's what causes tearing), and as long as that gas doesn’t dissipate, that gas prevents the avocado from browning.
This picture is of otherwise untreated avocado after nine hours in the refrigerator, tightly covered in tupperware containers. Even the containers are identical. One side has the onions, the other doesn’t.

I removed the lids to snap the picture. I replaced the lids, and within thirty minutes, I could see the avocado starting to brown on the side with the onion. By morning it was all over.

So, if you want to make guacamole in advance, one option to keep it fresh looking is to enclose it with diced red onion. Don’t remove the lid until time to serve. I specifically say red onion because that is the only onion type I tested. Stored like this you can taste the onion, but I find that flavor complimentary in guacamole. Nine hours isn't necessarily the limit; the onion experiment gets even better; I’ll cover it more in the section that covers Vitamin C.

I had read that salt speeds browning, and I knew from earlier experimentation that lime juice and vinegar speed browning. I looked at Vitamin C as possibly being effective against browning.
I added the factors of salt and Vitamin C to the testing of scoops of avocado left uncovered at room temperature.
At 2 hours the results are evident. Lime juice and salt both speed browning. Uncovered and unrefrigerated the Vitamin C doesn’t seem to make much of a difference.

Per each 50 grams of avocado (as indicated), I used 100mg of Vitamin C powder, 250mg salt or 1/4 tsp freshly squeezed lime juice.

Refrigerated and covered, Vitamin C is a whole different ball of wax.

I made guacamole using my favorite method. Into mashed avocado I mixed salt, lime juice, fresh cilantro and drained Pace Brand Hot Salsa. (Per 100 grams of avocado I added .5 grams of salt, 1/2 tsp of freshly squeezed lime juice, about a TBS of chopped cilantro and 2 TBS drained salsa).
I treated half the guacamole with 100mg of Vitamin C powder (ascorbic acid) to each 50 grams of guacamole.

Tightly enclosed in little Ziplocs, with no air exposure at all, both samples are still acceptable at 4 full days (96 hours). The Vitamin C treated sample shows no browning at all:

Since the layer of red onion kept avocados from turning brown for 9 hours if the lid wasn’t removed, I kept the lid on guacamole samples enclosed with red onion for the same 4 days. Again, both samples are acceptable, but the sample with added Vitamin C shows no browning at all:

Vitamin C so effectively stops avocados from browning that refrigerated just in a regular Tupperware container (just with the lid on, nothing on the surface) that even in the face of salt, salsa and lime, the guacamole is still perfectly fresh at four full days.

So, the bottom line is this: Add Vitamin C to guacamole to keep it fresh and green for a full four days. With the addition of Vitamin C, it actually stays green for even longer, but I suspect that other freshness issues would start to come into play at that point. Use a baggie, a Ziploc bag, Saran Wrap, Tupperware, whatever, as long as it’s covered.

OK, I don't necessarily advocate eating week old, homemade guacamole, but it's late and I'm hungry. I ate this. It's a full week old, it's green (not perfect, but pretty close), and it's yummy. Hey! I've got chips getting stale, don't judge me!

The second best option is to keep the guacamole tightly sealed with freshly diced red onion (other onion varieties may work, but I only tested red). The guacamole will stay perfectly green for at least 9 hours, and acceptable for 4 days, even without the addition of Vitamin C as long as you don’t open the container. So this would be fine if you want to serve guacamole at a party and want to make it in advance.

As a third option, vacuum pack the guacamole or use a Ziploc bag with all of the air removed. Even without Vitamin C or diced onions, the guacamole will stay marginally fresh and green for four days. The above options give better results, but giving the guacamole no air at all will keep it from browning unacceptably. 

Note: I found Wayfaring Stranger’s answer very compelling. I had wanted to include sodium bisulfite in this experiment, but I had difficulty getting it, there are strict shipping rules regarding it. Why? Well, because it’s dangerous. I tried different shipping companies, different sources and obscure local chemical firms. There came a point when I realized I was being silly, no one here is going to buy a compound labeled, “May be fatal if swallowed” to keep their guacamole green. Yes, it is used commercially for that purpose, the results of that experiment might be interesting, but those results are unlikely to have practical value to anyone who would read them here. Since the Vitamin C is both safe and efficacious without the sodium bisulfite, I’m quitting while I am ahead.

A: Metal on its own doesn't necessarily cause electric discharge in a microwave. 

What causes the sparking that you see when you put a fork in a microwave is due to the "sharp" edges of the fork. These edges concentrate the voltage at their tips which will cause a spark when it exceeds the dielectric breakdown of air.

Things like sheet pans (with rounded edges), or rounded metal racks are used frequently in microwaves with no ill effect. The absence of any pointed edges allows this. The rim of your bowl fits this requirement.

A: Trying to get to the bottom of the issue, I decided to take a few pictures of a few different types of salt. The pictures shown below were taken by me and are all proportional (the camera was the same distance away from each type of salt, so you are getting an accurate size comparison).  

The picture illustrates my suspicions, which is the difference is the surface area (ignoring of course mineral content and different types of grinding salt). Standard table salt is a compact little cube, effective when it’s to be dissolved in a liquid, but not so much when it comes to direct contact with the taste buds. Place one cube on your tongue and you get 1/6th of the surface area in contact, meaning, a lot of salt without much saltiness.  Sea salt, with a more rectangular shape is closer to 1/4th the surface area touching your tongue. Ground salt is more like shards of glass, so nearly half of the exposed area could be in contact making things taste that much more salty. Also with a much finer texture, you are left with many more particles in a wider area, meaning, a saltier taste with less salt.  

It’s a good way of finishing a dish when the salt is going to be lightly dusted on top or mixed with an oil where it will not dissolve at all. When you are dissolving it in a liquid, it really makes little difference which type you use. When it comes down to it, it’s all about how picky you want to be with it.

A: Abstract: Ganache is delicious, but not everyone eats dairy. We examined whether coconut milk can be used for the creation of a non-dairy ganache. We ran a series of experiments. The answer is that, with some creative techniques, you can use it, but it does not come anywhere near to the real thing. 

Introduction. Someone wrote a question on Seasoned advice about coconut based ganache and we got curious. 

Background. We love ganache even more than pure chocolate, and make it often ourselves, so we think we have all the prerequisites needed to create and judge a coconut based ganache recipe. Our favorite ganache recipe  (which we used as a starting point) is: 100 g chocolate, 72% cocoa (only made from cocoa, sugar, and cocoa butter, no vegetable fat or emulsifiers); 100 g cream, at least 30% (non-UHT), 25 g butter.  

Method. We prepared the base mix as follows: 25 g coconut milk were heated until boiling. They were removed from the heat. 25 g chocolate (72%) and 6g cocoa butter were added. Everything was left to dissolve. After 5 minutes, the mixture was whipped with a handheld mixer at the second-to-highest setting. This was Version 0. It was divided in two batches. Different versions were made from each batch by gradually adding guar (a knife-point-ful), egg yolk (1, in lieu of lecithine) and sugar (8g per batch). Each version was whipped for at least 3 minutes. The final versions (1c and 2b) where put for 30 min in the refrigerator, then taken out and whipped again. As there were no observable changes after the cold whipping, we do not treat them as a different version. We also made a small portion of dairy ganache for comparison purposes. 

Results. These are listed in Table 1. The numbers in the ingredients columns of the table represent the order of adding the ingredients to the mixtures. 
Table 1. Experiment results. 
 

The final consistency of version 1c is documented in Figure 1. Note that the peaks do not drip and you can rotate the bowl at 180° without anything falling out. The piece of chocolate was added for color comparison. 

Figure 2 shows a zoom of the blue bordered area in Figure 1.
 

Discussion. It is possible to make a profiterole filling with coconut milk based ganache, but it isn't quite like the real deal. Also, it resembles non-whipped ganache more closely than whipped ganache. 

The basic ganache recipe can be done with coconut milk instead of cream and cocoa butter instead of butter. However, it tastes fattier than real ganache, and it is runnier. Unlike dairy ganache, whipping does not result in aeration. 

We think that eliminating the cocoa butter altogether will somewhat alleviate the fatiness problem, but we did not test this proposal yet. 

A thickening and or emulsifying agent can improve the ganache texture. Even though egg yolk improves aeration, is not a good choice, as it results in a slimy feel. Guar is a better solution. 

The addition of sugar ruins the chocolateness of the taste. If bitterness is not desired, a sweeter chocolate (50%) should be used. Only dedicated sugar lovers or Americans should resort to adding sugar. In that case, it should be added before the guar (we would suggest dissolving it in the coconut milk before boiling it) as not to interfere with the texture of the final product. 

Threats to validity. First, there was a single tester (the quasi-royal we). Second, this tester is already biased in favor of dairy products in general and specifically for dairy based ganache. Third, many interesting combinations (including xanthan gum and corn starch) could not be tested due to lack of resources. 

Conclusion and outlook. We found the experiment very inspirating. It was also yummy. But we'd like to issue an warning: This experiment is dangerous. In the preparation phase, we discovered a penchant for guared coconut water deep fried in coconut fat we'd rather not have known about. Nevertheless, we are looking forward to offering the results for peer preview to a chocolate-loving lactose intolerant co worker. 

References:  My own recipe book

A: A lot of it depends on the type of pizza you make. Where I worked we did thin crust pizza, and these were the reasons we tossed:

Speed. Trying to roll or pat out a 17 inch pizza would be very time consuming. 

Consistency. Was easier to make the crust a consistent size and shape.

Space. Rolling or patting a person needs the table space 100% of the time. When tossing you can step back from the table and let another person get in to prep (or finish) their toss.

Job marketing. People wanted to work there just to learn how to toss, and it helped maintain that "authentic" vibe.

And as you pointed out, the show aspect of it. Kids loved to watch our staff toss.

A: In addition to the lower heat capacity (see other answer), a main reason, quite counterintuitive, why plastics don't dry well is that they're hydrophobic. That's right: they keep water sticking to them because they're water repellent (but not completely water repellent).

The reason for this strange behaviour is that any small amount of water on the surface of plastics immediately contracts to a compact droplet. This minimises contact with the plastic, but also with air, which is the problem: for efficient evaporation, you need a large air-to-liquid surface. You do get such a large surface on glass, ceramic and metal, because these are (at least when freshly cleaned) hydrophilic, so the water stretches out to a thin film coating a whole lot of the surface.

Not so with plastics. Only with some shaking will the droplets start running down the surface, and may combine with other drops and then drip off. With super-hydrophobic materials you'd be ok again because even tiny drops would immediately pour down, but most plastics are exactly at the sour spot: too hydrophobic for evaporation, but still not hydrophobic enough for a lotus effect.

Melamine resins tend to be among the better plastics in this regard, as they're still pretty hydrophilic. Still, they tend to dry only incompletely, probably because of the low heat capacity.

A: Yes, it is true that we don't add oil to the boiling water. I'm not aware of any good reason to waste extra-virgin olive oil that way! Some oil is always added at the end, over the sauce, when the pasta is already in the plate! It has to be raw, so that it retains its fruit nuances and texture.

If you are doing cold pasta salad and want to avoid sticky pasta, adding oil in advance won't help. You have instead to wash pasta under cold water to wash the starch away (you can put the pasta in the colander directly under the running cold tap).

A: hobodave's answer is most of the way there but I think it understates the importance of protein toxins.  With the vast majority of foodborne illnesses, the bacteria aren't particularly harmful at all; what you need to worry about is the protein toxins they produce.

E.Coli - probably the most well-known form of food poisoning along with Salmonella - is actually a harmless bacteria that already lives in your lower intestine.  But there is a particular strain of E.Coli, notably O157:H7, that is primarily associated with food poisoning.  The reason?  It produces what's called a Shiga-like Toxin.

E.Coli contamination is actually dangerous on two fronts.  Because the bacteria are so well-adapted to surviving in the human digestive system (as I pointed out earlier, that's their primary habitat), ingesting even a relatively small number of the bacteria will result in them multiplying and producing those toxins in your gut (and the rest of the way down).  This is why it normally takes several days for you to feel the effects of this type of food poisoning; that's how long it takes for them to produce the toxins in sufficient quantity for your body to notice.

But they don't need to be in your gut to produce those toxins; a piece of meat at room temperature provides good enough conditions and more than enough raw material for them reproduce and emit those same toxins.  So if you leave it sitting out too long, then it really doesn't matter how many bacteria you kill, you are going to end up with E.Coli poisoning fast, because you don't even need to wait for them to produce the toxins; they're already there.

The problem is that you can't "kill" a protein toxin with a brief burst of heat because a protein isn't alive.  It's just a protein.  The temperatures and times needed to destroy that toxin would be similar to the temperatures and times needed to destroy all of the protein in the food, draining all the nutrition value and quite possibly turning it into a lump of charcoal.

Salmonella seems to be a fountain of misinformation with all sorts of people saying that it doesn't produce toxins.  This simply isn't true.  Inside the host it produces what's called an AvrA toxin (which isn't "toxic" per se, but allows the bacteria to grow to larger numbers), and some strains can also produce a CdtB toxin, which is highly toxic.  (Apparently there's also a similar toxin produced by other strains.) I'll be honest, a lot of the medical mumbo-jumbo is way beyond my ability to comprehend, but it seems that a lot of the public confusion comes from the fact that salmonella can do some nasty things even without the toxins - but that doesn't mean that the toxins themselves can't do plenty of damage even if you manage to kill the bacteria.

The same applies to many other types of dangerous bacteria; C.diptheriae produce the diphtheria toxin, C.botulinum produce the botulinum toxin (botulism); even the infamous mad cow disease was, as far as we know, caused by a protein, not a bacteria, which is why it was able to be transmitted to humans even through cooked beef.

Are protein toxins the only reason why the USDA insists on a maximum 4-hour cumulative danger zone?  Probably not.  As hobodave says, the more the bacteria multiply, the harder is to kill all of them, even at high temperatures.  The figure of 74° C / 165° F that the food agencies give us for poultry is not going to kill exactly 100% of all the bacteria, and if it only kills - I'm just throwing out a number here - 99.999% of them, that may be good enough for relatively fresh poultry but won't be enough if you've got a whole bacterial colony to worry about.

We can only speculate as to exactly what's entailed by the "danger zone" but my guess is that it's actually a combination of statistics, probabilities, and safety margins, which include, but are not limited to, the effects of protein toxins.

A: In terms of bulk price wood is about 3x cheaper than plastic. (I buy both plastic and wood materials for commercial and residential uses in my profession.) Also, wood is biodegradable which makes it safer for the environment if children toss away the stick after they eat the ice cream.

A: It is absolutely OK to filter and reuse deep-fry oil.

It's not uncommon at some short-order restaurants for them to filter the oil daily and only change it once a week.  Of course, it does start to taste a little "off" when you reuse it that many times.

There's also the matter of impurities lowering the smoke point; even when you filter, the result is obviously not "pure" oil; the more you reuse it, the lower the smoke point gets, and eventually it will actually start to smoke at deep-fry temperatures (i.e. become unusable).

For home use, I'd recommend no more than 3 or 4 reuses.  Check the oil to see if it needs to be changed sooner than that - if the colour or smell is off, don't use it again.  Best to compare it against a sample of the same "fresh" oil; sometimes it's hard to just eyeball it without a frame of reference.  If it looks totally clear and smells fresh, you could probably go up to 5 or 6 reuses - but definitely not more than that.

P.S. There will be some people who tell you that you should never reuse oil for general health (not safety) reasons.  My response to that tends to be that if you're eating deep-fried food, you're probably not all that concerned about long-term health risks.  Rest assured that if you do a lot of eating out, you've eaten plenty of food fried in "leftover" oil.

A: Fruit fly trap !

Put some strong smelling vinegar, like apple cider vinegar, in a glass and make the trap by making a cone with a sheet of paper. The strong sweet smell will attract them and they won't be able to get out of the glass.

A: If you've never made scrambled eggs the Gordon Ramsey way you're really missing out. He calls for fresh cream, but I use sour cream and find it works just as well and gives a nice tangy flavor. Great video where he demonstrates the technique: http://videosift.com/video/Gordon-Ramsay-s-Perfect-Scrambled-Eggs

According to him, one of the reasons to add milk or cream is to cool the eggs down so they don't keep cooking after you remove them from the heat.

A: A dishwasher gets cheese off even that side - but that's no good if you don't have one, nor is it very effective against ginger and other fibrous foods. 

The best I've found is simply a washing up brush (i.e. plastic bristles and a long handle) from both sides. I would then put it in the dishwasher for a final clean unless I'm doing a proper load of washing up, which is rare

A: Basically, the lye reacts with the CO₂ and moisture present during baking to form a non-toxic carbonate.  This makes it safe to eat.

The reaction:

CO₂ (g) + H₂O (l) ­&rlarr; H₂CO₃ (aq)

H₂CO₃ (aq) + 2 NaOH (aq) &rarr; Na₂CO₃ (aq) + 2 H₂O (l)

From here (MS doc) 

[EDIT]

Spurred by the comments, I have searched further.

tl;dr There is much going on wrt the lye dip. As far as safety goes, the lye is consumed in many reactions, including the above.

- (Firstly: The equation source was not the basis of my answer; rather it was to refresh my memory of the reaction about which I was told/read several years ago was the reason why lye is safe to use on leavened breads, which was its combining with carbonic acid. (I apologize for not checking the balance adequately.)

- My recent search only found one reference at The Kitchn to the reaction of lye with carbonic acid as the reason for its safe use. It is also unsourced.

- Simultaneously, I found a research paper and a Food Chem Blog entry which referenced it, both of which discussed the behavior of the lye bath on pretzels. There is a lot there, so I shall only quote the paper abstract:

  

The effects of alkali dipping on starch, protein, and color changes in hard pretzel products have never been researched. Experiments were conducted to mimic reactions occurring on the pretzel dough surface. Dough was dipped in water or 1% sodium hydroxide solution at different temperatures between 50°C and 80°C. Protein and starch profile after dipping were analyzed. Color development on pretzel surface following the extraction of pigments from flour was investigated. Whole dough and pretzel samples were also made at pilot plant and the properties were analyzed. Only starch granules on the dough surface were gelatinized following dipping. Amylose-lipid complex dissociated at a lower temperature with alkali treatment but were not dissociated, even at high-temperature dipping in water. Treating the dough at 80°C in alkali solution resulted in the hydrolysis of proteins into smaller peptides that could be not precipitated by trichloroacetic acid (TCA). Dough surface color was different following pigment extraction from flour but not significantly different following baking. The results suggest that the color that developed on pretzel surface was not due to pigments present in the flour but was contributed by the reaction within or between the starch and protein hydrolysis derivatives during baking.

and what I think is the pertinent quote from the blog:

  

The protein results (2 in the list above [reproduced following]) indicate that the lye dip provides the smaller proteins needed for Maillard reactions, whereas the water dip does not. This seemed like perhaps the most important point to me.
  
  
  
- The dip resulted in the hydrolysis of protein into smaller peptides. This happened a little bit in 25°C water or lye dip, more in 80°C water, and a lot more in 80°C lye dip. Also, the smaller peptides in the hot lye dip had the smallest molecular weights; most of them “walked off” the electrophoresis gel, leaving no bands. The authors explain that the alkaline conditions of the lye dip result in like charges along the proteins, which repel and cause the proteins to unfold; this makes them more susceptible to hydrolysis.
  

Both the blog and the paper are worth reading.

My conclusion: the lye is consumed by the various reactions and therefore poses no safety concerns.

A: It's possible to get specialized equipment for this: a plunger measuring cup. The base is adjusted to the level you need to measure, the sticky honey or syrup is poured in, and then the cup is upended and as the base is pushed in, it scrapes the sides as it travels.

I'd only invest in this if you very frequently measure sticky ingredients -- it's not strictly necessary, but it can be a timesaver for some recipes. It's available from many different brands.

A: I finally found what I'm looking for, from the University of Michigan — some actual data on the subject!

They say that rinsing canned beans can reduce the amount of sodium by almost half.  They add that it also reduces the amount of gas-causing raffinose.

Draining the fluid is likely to improve the flavor and texture of the resulting food by concentrating the flavor of the beans. An exception would be if you're following a soup recipe that specifically suggests retaining the liquid to thicken the soup.

I still haven't found any information about what healthy nutrients might be lost by rinsing the beans. But the general consensus seems to be that rinsing will do more good than harm in almost all cases.

A: My secret weapon is onion. Caramelize the onions first.  This creates a natural sweetness.  Always use ripe tomatoes; if you cannot then use canned.  The canned are made from ripe tomatoes and tend to be a very good substitute.

Also, the celery and carrot suggestions are very much a good addition - you are making a classic tomato sauce when you include the celery and carrots, 1 part each celery and carrot to 2 parts onion.  Add the onions first to get the caramelization.

I don't get too fancy with herbs, usually one good fresh herb does it for me, basil or sage are two favorites of mine.

There is a suggestion to add cream, why not use the parmesan end you may have in your fridge, it is dairy and allowed to slowly simmer in the sauce will lend a very nice flavor note.

Acidic sauces are usually reserved for nights when I make a puttanesca sauce - it goes with the capers and calamata olives I add to it.

Don't forget to season with salt and pepper.

A: Definitely the Joy of Cooking.  It's not a convenience cookbook for people with busy schedules or low patience - the majority of recipes in there are geared toward flavour and not specialty diets or quick prep times - but at least 9 out of 10 recipes I try in there have near-perfect flavour and texture.

IMO, this should be in every cook's kitchen, even the ones that don't really use cookbooks.  It has all the classic recipes, and you never know when somebody will ask you to make Chicken Kiev.

A: A lot of bacteria grows in the range of 40-100°F (4-38°C) (i.e. room temperature). It's definitely not recommended to defrost meat at room temperature. In fact, you are not supposed to leave meat at room temperature for more than an hour. 

However, defrosting in the refrigerator can take a long time and require you to plan at least one day ahead of time. I'm not so good at this, which leads to a safe and fast solution: Defrost meat in a waterproof ziploc bag in cold water. Change the water every 30 minutes until defrosted. The water is a better  conductor of heat than air, so the defrosting is quite fast and the water is cold so there's minimal safety risk.

From the USDA:

  

Uh, oh! You're home and forgot to
  defrost something for dinner. You grab
  a package of meat or chicken and use
  hot water to thaw it fast. But is this
  safe? What if you remembered to take
  food out of the freezer, but forgot
  and left the package on the counter
  all day while you were at work?
  
  

Neither of these situations are safe,
  and these methods of thawing lead to
  foodborne illness. Food must be kept
  at a safe temperature during "the big
  thaw." Foods are safe indefinitely
  while frozen. However, as soon as food
  begins to defrost and become warmer
  than 40 °F (4 °C), any bacteria that may have
  been present before freezing can begin
  to multiply.
  
  

Foods should never be thawed or even
  stored on the counter, or defrosted in
  hot water. Food left above 40 °F
  (unrefrigerated) is not at a safe
  temperature.
  
  

Even though the center of the package
  may still be frozen as it thaws on the
  counter, the outer layer of the food
  is in the "Danger Zone," between 40
  and 140 °F (4 °C and 60 °C) – at temperatures where
  bacteria multiply rapidly.
  
  

When defrosting frozen foods, it's
  best to plan ahead and thaw food in
  the refrigerator where food will
  remain at a safe, constant temperature
  – 40 °F (4 °C) or below.
  
  

There are three safe ways to defrost
  food: in the refrigerator, in cold
  water, and in the microwave.
  
  

Refrigerator Thawing Planning ahead is
  the key to this method because of the
  lengthy time involved. A large frozen
  item like a turkey requires at least a
  day (24 hours) for every 5 pounds of
  weight. Even small amounts of frozen
  food -- such as a pound of ground meat
  or boneless chicken breasts -- require
  a full day to thaw. When thawing foods
  in the refrigerator, there are several
  variables to take into account. Some
  areas of an appliance may keep the
  food colder than other areas. Food
  placed in the coldest part will
  require longer defrosting time. Food
  takes longer to thaw in a refrigerator
  set at 35 °F (2 °C) than one set at 40 °F (4 °C).
  
  

After thawing in the refrigerator,
  ground meat and poultry should remain
  useable for an additional day or two
  before cooking; red meat, 3 to 5 days.
  Foods defrosted in the refrigerator
  can be refrozen without cooking,
  although there may be some loss of
  quality.
  
  

Cold Water Thawing
  
  

This method is faster than
  refrigerator thawing but requires more
  attention. The food must be in a
  leak-proof package or plastic bag. If
  the bag leaks, bacteria from the air
  or surrounding environment could be
  introduced into the food. Also, meat
  tissue can also absorb water like a
  sponge, resulting in a watery product.
  
  

The bag should be submerged in cold
  tap water, changing the water every 30
  minutes so it continues to thaw. Small
  packages of meat or poultry – about a
  pound – may defrost in an hour or
  less. A 3- to 4-pound package may take
  2 to 3 hours. For whole turkeys,
  estimate about 30 minutes per pound.
  If thawed completely, the food must be
  cooked immediately. 
  
  

Foods thawed by the cold water method
  should be cooked before refreezing.

A: I might disagree a little with rumtscho - traditionally cured bacon is one thing, what you get in packets from the supermarket is another. It looks similar and it tastes similar, but commercial products are processed rapidly and not tested for immediate consumption without cooking.

Products like Parma ham and Schwartzwaldschinken are proven to be adequately preserved for consumption without cooking. Modern bacon is not, in general. OTOH I know for a fact that raw packet bacon is commonly eaten in Spain without cooking, and I've met people who eat raw sausages (not a good idea in my opinion).

Me, I wouldn't eat it uncooked ...

A: I work in a commercial kitchen and I've seen this happen before, which is why we do not use copper-plated cookware. This can happen whenever you have two different alloys welded together and apply heat to one side or non-uniformly; An effect known as 'thermal shock'. What happens is one metal expands faster than the other, causing a deformation or fracture. Think of it as one side trying to 'pull' the other at the edges. The pop you heard was undoubtedly this delineation occurring, followed by the kinetic reaction of the pot jumping.

I find your claim that the pot leaped through the air difficult to believe, but I have observed audible pops and visible movement when they fail. If you have a flat top (like an electric stove), it could skid for up to a foot from this due to the lack of friction and possible presence of condensate (water) on the surface which can at certain temperatures act like a nearly friction-less cushion. Oil doesn't do this, only water.

If you've ever been in a commercial kitchen you'll notice every cookware item is made of a single cast of metal (most usually stainless steel) because of this. Welded alloy pots and pans just don't last very long -- the effect observed so violently happens at a smaller scale with every heating cycle, eventually resulting in ruined cookware. Also, being a line cook means being exposed to things exploding, dying, catching fire, etc., on a near-daily basis, not to mention an assortment of knives that would make most Hollywood bad-asses blush, so obviously we try to limit the number of things that can go wrong.

Do yourself a favor -- if you stick with the copper-bottomed pots and pans, make sure to put plenty of water or oil in them. Heat with nowhere to go will cause failure quickly.

A: As, since this answer other suggestions have abounded, let me clarify.

These methods assume you want no wastage & also no cross-contamination of your source jar of the sticky component. They also require almost nothing in the way of 'extra equipment'.

Depending on what the next steps to your recipe are, I can think of three alternatives. None are perfect and each would suit a different scenario.

- 

Tip it and leave it a long time.

- 

Heat it slightly. Microwave or sit the container in hot water.  

or my favourite,

- Rinse it out with the next liquid ingredient you will use in the same recipe; or for a spoon, stir your existing ingredients with it.

A: Inspired by rumtscho's incredibly detailed answer, which provided some informative although not quite "marketable" results, I set off on my own set of experiments.  They are not quite finished, but I'll update this answer as more gets uncovered.

First of all, I decided to start my experiments with coconut cream by itself because, why waste perfectly good chocolate on something that I'm probably going to end up throwing out?
The Cast

My kitchen isn't an emporium of food additives, but I think I have enough to get by:

Left to right: Coconut cream, coconut milk, egg white powder, guar gum, xanthan gum, lecithin (liquid), and agar powder.

Not pictured but in stock are gelatin (not appropriate for vegan or kosher preparations), icing sugar (laying off the sweeteners for now), and various other thickeners that are essentially equivalent to guar gum (corn starch, arrowroot, tapioca, etc.)
Coconut Cream
First Look

I've only used coconut cream a couple of times before, mainly for curries, and didn't even really remember what it was.  Judging by the other answers here, many people aren't actually familiar with coconut cream as opposed to the much more commonly-available coconut milk; to get coconut cream, you usually have to go to an Asian market (fortunately, there's a T&T near me).

As you can see, coconut cream has a fairly high amount of fat, a surprisingly low amount of sugar, and almost no protein.  Whilst thinking about what emulsifiers would be useful here, I noticed that the manufacturer had already beaten me to the punch; carboxymethyl cellulose and polysorbate 60 are well-known E number additives.  I'm wondering if these are going to help me with whipping or just cause more problems.

Taking a look inside:

This stuff is clearly nothing like whipping cream.  It doesn't even pour.  It's essentially a stiff jelly that I have to dig out with a spoon, and as I empty the can into a bowl, it becomes clear that the "milk" component separates while in storage:

Note to self: Next time you make a curry with this ooze, mix it first.
Will it whip?

The short answer is no.

I gave it several minutes with an electric beater and it didn't even really start to whip.  No peaks, not even really any bubbles.

Based on the results so far, I decide not to bother with guar gum; this cream-like substance does need need thickening, it needs air.
Xanthan Gum

Xanthan is probably the most forgiving additive in terms of preparation and measurements, so I decide to start with that.  I start adding it in increments of 1/8 tsp:

After the first 1/8 tsp, it's starting to thicken, but no real stability yet.  Another 1/8 tsp and soft peaks are starting to form.  After the third round, it's starting to look very custard-like, and at 1/2 tsp of xanthan gum, it's really quite "gummy" indeed, resembling the consistency of melted marshmallow or marshmallow spread.  Interesting, but not what I wanted.  The optimal amount seemed to be around 1/4 tsp (per half-can or 200 mL) when I was seeing soft peaks; after that, everything really just went south.

Verdict: Useful additive, but not sufficient by itself.  I've also ruled out agar at this point, because that's just going to give me something even stiffer and more jelly-like than xanthan gum.
Egg White Powder

Even though real whipping cream is basically all fat and no protein, at this point I was considering that the coconut cream was simply too heavy and that the protein from egg white powder - basically meringue powder without the sugar - might help lighten it up a bit.

I'm not even going to bother posting the photos of the first attempts, because I kept adding more and more powder and getting nothing out of it.  Finally, exasperated, I got ready to dump it down the drain - and immediately after some water from the tap hit the bowl, it started to foam:

Intrigued by this, I decided to actually follow the instructions and get the egg white powder fully dissolved in water to make it... well, sort of like an actual egg white.

I'm getting a lot more bubbles here, such that I could probably skim some of it off for a foam, but a foam is unfortunately not what I'm after here.  Knowing full well that egg whites and fat don't play nice together, I had hoped that some lecithin would work as a lipid/water emulsifier:

I really seemed to get very little out of the lecithin except for a yellower hue.  The last photo you see up there was after I (gradually) loaded up on xanthan again to see if it would make any difference at all over the first set of xanthan experiments - it really didn't, and the custard was pretty vile-tasting at this point.

Verdict: Neither egg white powder nor soy lecithin are any help at all.
Alternative Method

At this point I was on my last batch of coconut cream and rapidly running out of ideas.  If I'd had some carrageenan, I might have tried it at this point, but it's a very difficult additive to find around here.

Then it occurred to me that I actually have a tool designed to whip foams and gels that aren't cream-based - my iSi Creative Whip.  I was somewhat skeptical about whether or not this would actually work, because the coconut cream was already very thick and you're normally supposed to homogenize and strain anything that goes into the whipper, but - well, see for yourself:

This is by far the most encouraging result so far.  I waited an hour to see how stable it was:

It was still holding together.  But don't be fooled by the appearance; xanthan gum is shear-thinning, so although this didn't collapse right away, it could easily be liquefied by enough jostling.

After another 2 hours at room temperature it was back to being a pancake (no picture yet).  Some cocoa butter might make this more stable, but it's pretty pathetic compared to the chantilly cream, which has been sitting in my fridge for almost a week and is still stable.

Verdict: The whipped cream charger was the missing link; along with some xanthan gum, it's enough to get this goo whipped.  The trick will be getting it stay whipped, and I think I'm going to need something stiffer than xanthan - possibly carrageenan.

I'm going to try gelatin; even though I can't really use that in the final product, it does function as a rough approximation of what carrageenan will do.  It's also possible that some sugar (or icing sugar) might help stabilize this a little more, but I don't want to add too much, because the coconut cream is already slightly on the sweet side.

Hopefully a combination of gelatin and xanthan gum will make this whip and "set", at which point I can try adding some cocoa butter (or whipping that separately) and folding it all into some melted chocolate for ganache.  If the gelatin works at all then I'll order some carrageenan online because I know it'll hold up better than the gelatin due to its higher melting point.
Chapter 2 - Lightening Up

My experiments from last session, while promising, were strongly suggesting to me that coconut cream is just too heavy, too thick for this.  It's full of thickening agents and emulsifiers already, so I had to wonder if I was swimming against the current trying to get just the right mix.

I decide to start with coconut milk today, and after having recently read about the viscosity synergy between guar gum and xanthan gum, I decide to try a combination.  This is a materially fruitless but nevertheless educational experience - see the pictorial below:

From left to right, top to bottom, these show:

- Plain coconut milk in the bowl (1 can or 400 mL);

- Coconut milk with 1/2 tsp guar gum and 1/8 tsp xanthan gum, beaten;

- Coconut milk with an additional 1/2 tsp guar gum and 1/8 tsp xanthan gum, beaten;

- The same mixture, after being left in a stand mixer on high speed;

- The same mixture after trying to pipe it out of a bag.

Most sources I found seemed to suggest using guar:xanthan in a 2:1 or 4:1 ratio, so I choose the latter.  Using the "recommended" amount (#2 above) it starts to thicken but doesn't really form peaks - like adding corn starch.  Doubling that, it starts to become a little too thick, but still sort of creamy, and not too gummy, so I give it a go anyway.

I also try adding a packet of whipped cream stabilizer (basically dextrose and a small amount of other additives), wondering if it might help.  It actually sort of does - the peaks were a bit firmer - but it still doesn't hold up too well (what you see in image #5 is with the stabilizer).

Verdict: This was a total failure but for one thing - it demonstrated conclusively that I did not need the heavily adulterated "coconut cream" in order to get a creamy texture.  I could use pure coconut milk (coconut extract + water), add my own thickeners/emulsifiers, and get a result that was every bit as thick as the cream.
Last Call

Despite all of these failures, at this point I'm actually pretty sure I understand all the variables.  I decide to go big or go home.

Resolving to use coconut milk (not cream), my line of thinking is:

- 

Without thickening, it's pretty watery, so instead of using a ganache technique, I will use Hervé This's Chocolate Chantilly (see bottom of linked page) technique, as also mentioned in an earlier answer here.  I don't want watered down chocolate, though; I want rich, thick, melt-in-your-mouth ganache!

- 

Having made several espumas in the past, I know that an appropriate amount of gelatin will set the coconut milk by itself to a mousse-like consistency.  So I make an educated guess and assume that to be the total amount of gelatin I'll need for the entire ganache, since the chocolate should have plenty of lecithin already to help hold it together.

- 

Finally, knowing that xanthan is a better stabilizer than gelatin (despite being a poor gelling agent), I resolve to use a very small amount.

Here's the way this went:

- 

I bloom exactly 3.6 g of powdered Knox gelatin in a new 400 mL can of coconut milk. (I didn't do any math here, it was just what I had left of an open packet).  N.B. The coconut milk separates in the can, and needs to be blended before blooming the gelatin.

- 

After blooming for about 5-10 minutes, I set the mixture on the stove at medium heat, stirring until the gelatin dissolves.  N.B. Coconut milk sputters a lot on the stove and seems prone to scorching - I had to lower the heat to medium-low.

- 

I break out the dark Belgian chocolate callets.  Nothing fancy, just the generic wafers from the bulk food store, but a little better than the Baker's chocolate in supermarkets.  In total I used approximately 14 oz.

- 

I add a little less than 1/8 tsp xanthan gum to the coconut milk/gelatin mixture, stir it up a bit, then toss in all the callets at once and let them melt (stirring constantly).  N.B. The coconut milk was not that hot, so it had to be returned to the stove a few times to get everything melted.

- 

I set the mixture in a bowl, which is inside an ice-water bath, and start beating it constantly with the handheld beater (medium setting, although I don't think this matters much).  The first image shows what it looks like while it's still hot.

- 

The last image above shows what it looks like cooled down a bit (but still warm) and, again, after constant beating.

Can you guess what happens next?

Here's what it looks like when it finally started to get cold (below the melting point of the gelatin):

Could it be?  I think so!  Let's try piping it:

Take that, gravity!

This is no trickery, I assure you - no camera gimmicks nor did I freeze it or do anything else to the mixture between between the last two photos.  Completely dairy-free, using only coconut milk, gelatin, and a little bit of xanthan gum.

This actually might be a little too stiff.  It was hard (but not impossible) to pipe out.  Next time, I'll probably lower the amount of gelatin slightly by 10-20%, and take it out of the ice water bath before it actually gets cool.  At room temperature, this has roughly the consistency of soft cake frosting - exactly what you'd expect from a ganache.

In terms of taste, I would have to describe this as: Oh god, somebody make me stop eating this before my stomach explodes. No lie - it's that good.  It has an almost fudge-like quality to it, although I can't explain where that would be coming from.
Miscellaneous Tips

- 

I recommend having a silicone spatula and piping bag, otherwise you're going to have a hard time cleaning it up; although you don't notice this at all in the mouth, in the bowl/bag it's a little stickier/pastier than its dairy counterpart.

- 

My version still turned out to be a bit hard to pipe at room temperature.  However, the mixture softens and melts quite readily with heat, so if you've scooped it into the piping bag and can't push it out, try running some hot water over the bag itself; it worked perfectly for me.

Final Thoughts

I'd like to test this with carrageenan in order to be sure that this can also be done totally vegan (or pareve).  I still don't have any carrageenan yet.  It will no doubt be missing some of the melt-in-your-mouth quality that the gelatin provides, but aside from the melting point, the two are pretty similar in the way they behave, so I'm confident that it won't be a problem.

By the way: An hour and a half after I finished whipping this up, that plate I took a picture of, with the spiral of ganache - it's in front of me now and still standing up.  This is 100% stable at room temperature.

Now to finish licking off the beaters.
Carrageenan Update

I finally got around to trying this with carrageenan last week. I used a 0.75% solution of iota (would not recommended kappa for this, it sets too hard).

The results were similar to gelatin, although not quite the same.  It did ultimately work as a stabilizer, but due to the shear-thinning property, it was a little difficult to pipe out.  Often what would happen was that it would start to set inside the bag, and I'd have to apply heat and/or pressure to get the first little bit out, and immediately after that the entire mixture would liquefy and I'd have to sit around waiting for it to harden again.

Bottom line is that carrageenan is functional, but a bit of a pain to work with in this scenario, so if you can use gelatin, it's better to stick to that.
Addendum - The Recipe

Just in case anybody feels like trying this themselves and wants something to print out, here is the condensed version:

- Bloom 0.7 - 1.0% powdered gelatin in cold stirred coconut milk (I used 0.9%).

- Heat coconut milk to dissolve.

- Stir in 0.1% xanthan gum (0.4 g or 1/8 tsp for every 400 mL).

- Take off heat and stir in dark or bittersweet chocolate (approx. 1:1, or 14 oz for a 400 mL can of coconut milk) to melt.

- Set a stainless steel bowl into an ice water bath and pour in the hot mixture.

- Beat with an electric beater (or aerating blade of an immersion blender) until cool.

A: Everyone's stressing the chef's knife, but I'd be even more generic; when starting out, you can do almost every task with:

- A large knife (8" Chef, 7" Japanese Santoku, or a Chinese Cleaver) 

- A small knife (Paring or similar)

- A bread knife (serrated, 10" or longer)

As you add to your collection: 

- A boning / filet knife 

- Kitchen shears (for snipping herbs without a cutting board or cutting the back out of a chicken)

- A carving knife (for slicing meats and large melons or splitting a cake into layers)

- A heavy cleaver (so you don't mess up your main-line knives when hacking up bones; heavy enough to use the back of the knife for cracking a coconut)

- A utility / tomato knife (mid-sized, serrated)

A few people have mentioned a larger chef's knife, but it's going to be harder to control.  Develop good knife skills first, then move to something larger.  

I know a few people who do everything but bread with a paring knife (and no cutting board, in their hand, cutting against their thumb), and I'd consider them "serious chefs" (southern, over 60 for the most part, but also a few apartment-living Europeans).

A: I have tried many techniques but what gets the best results for me is dropping them directly in water and vinegar. Complete method below:

- Take eggs out of fridge early and leave to reach room temp. It is okay to leave them out of fridge overnight if cooking for breakfast.

- Fill pan with water - I use frying pan with minimum depth of 4cm.

- Add splash of vinegar to help the egg coagulate.

- Bring water to boil then reduce heat until you can see a few tiny bubbles rising from bottom of pan.

- Crack 1st egg into ramekin of some sort - I use a narrow tea cup.

- If cooking one egg:

- Stir the pan very slowly from the outside and then gently slide egg from ramekin into middle of pan.

- NOTE: Do not make a rapid whirlpool in the center of pan - the centrifugal forces will pull the yolk towards the side of the pan creating a yolk sack with whites left in the middle of whirlpool.

- If cooking many eggs:

- Gently slide egg from ramekin near outside edge of pan with following eggs near edges of pan. Use a spoon to push escaping whites towards egg after sliding in for a couple of seconds until it starts to coagulate.

- Cook for about 3-4mins for runny, longer for harder yolk.

- If eating immediately:

- Use a slotted spoon to lift eggs onto a plate with 2 layers of paper towel. Make sure to drain excess water - you may like to shake slotted spoon a bit.

- Place a paper towel over eggs and press down gently to soak up excess water.

- You should be able to pick up your perfectly poached egg with your hands and show your friends how pro you are.

- If cooking lots or eating later:

- Remove eggs with slotted spoon and place into bowl of cold water.

- You may quickly heat them up in hot water when ready to use.

This is my morning routine twice a week - with english muffin, butter, bacon, rocket/spinach salad and hollandaise sauce.

A: In such a case, for any food item, ask yourself a question: In a 19th century household, would it have been kept in the cellar, or eaten immediately? 

For bacon, it is common knowledge (or at least I think everybody knows it) that it was kept in a cellar for long time. So this is definitely not a food which perishes too quickly. You can eat it raw. (In fact, I often do when I need a quick sandwich). It can be a bit tough to tear apart with your teeth, so pre-cut it. 

The reason for this is that bacon is cured meat. There are two reasons not to eat raw meat: taste and food safety. Taste is individual, some people are OK with the taste and eat raw meat as long as they can find a source of meat fresh enough (think sashimi, carpaccio, steak tartare). Food safety is not a problem with bacon. The process of turning pork to bacon includes salt and smoke. Both of these kill bacteria, create an environment which is not hospitable to new colonization (dry, salty), and give the meat a new flavor which is better than the raw meat. 

If you are now asking yourself why we are bothering with the fridge for bacon and other ex-"cellar foods" at all, there is still a reason. First, most of us don't have a convenient cellar at 12° - 15°C, and not only is the bacon's life shortened if kept at usual kitchen temperatures, it also doesn't taste too good. It is just greasy. Second, you seldom get dry bacon at the supermarket; even if the curing process doesn't include brining, bacon is often aged much less than in old times, and then packed in vacuum, so it doesn't get really dry on the outside. So bacteria could very well start growing on it outside of the freezer. Inside the freezer, it keeps much longer than raw meat, and is certainly OK for consumption without frying. I guess that the popularity of fried bacon is mainly due to taste reasons.

A: Your concern is NOT getting the measuring item clean.
Your concern is ensuring the right amount of ingredient goes where it is desired.

If you have decent accuracy digital kitchen scales (relatively cheap usually but may depend on your location), you can measure by weight.

If you need to determine the weight by measure of your sticky substance, start with these steps:

- Place the measuring item (spoon, cup whatever) on the scales. Tare the scales to zero.

- Scoop quantity of sticky substance. Measure on scales, and note the number.

Once you know how much the desired measurement should weigh (you can also look up these numbers online or in many cookbooks):

- Place destination bowl on scales and tare to zero.

- Add sticky substance up to the desired weight.

A: Causes

According to this article the problem seems mainly two fold, conductivity and thermal inertia (among other factors).

During washing temperatures get relatively hot (depending on the particular program chosen) to promote sterilization and help with cleaning.

- 

Conductivity: Different utensils are made of different materials which will absorb this heat at different rates. Plastic has relatively low conductivity compared to say a metal pan or stainless steel object, thus both gaining heat slower and transferring that energy to water less efficiently leading to less evaporation.

- 

Thermal Inertia: Plastic objects are generally thinner and lighter, plastic is generally also less dense than other common kitchen materials, leading to retaining less heat, and conserving less energy, thus remaining warm for shorter periods, again promoting less evaporation.

There may also be other factors at work; such as surface properties of plastics like roughness and porosity that make it hydrophobic, which may cause water droplets stick more to its surface, or evaporate slower.
Possible Solutions
Briefly open the door

I have recently developed a practice that I feel helps getting most items (even plastics) almost dry.

After the cycles finishes, (the sooner the better so that the least amount of heat is lost), immediately turn off the dish washer and open the door.

Leave it open for a few brief seconds, long enough to let most vapor escape, but short enough that the minimum amount of heat is lost.
After that close the door again and let it sit for a while, no need to shut it tight, leaving it ajar will suffice. Ten to twenty minutes is probably more than enough if you are in a hurry.

This will ensure a lot of the humidity will leave the compartment while still remaining warm, promoting quicker evaporation, ensuring that most items will be either almost dry or have a minimum amount of water when you return to unload the dishwasher.
Shake Plastic Items

One other optional thing you may do in addition to the previous procedure, (if you can waste the time and have the energy) is, after opening the door while waiting for the steam to escape, individually grab any plastic objects and one by one give them a vigorous shake to loosen any droplets on its surface.

If your ratio of plastics to other materials is anything like mine those should be a minority so it shouldn't take too long. One or two shakes per item is generally enough, just let them splash into the sink, or even back into the dishwasher to get most of the surface water off. Then just put them back in and close the door again and let them dry along with other items, the remaining heat should take care of most residual humidity.

As mentioned in the comments, if you have no delicate items that might break, you can also just give the whole rack a shake instead. Items with intricate designs or crevices that pool water may still benefit from a good individual shake though.
Use Rinse Aid

In case you aren't already for some reason, using rinse aid seems to helps considerably achieving drier items after the cycle.

Backstory: After purchasing a new "fancy" zeolitihc dish washer we were told it needed no rinse aid since local water quality is satisfactory; so we didn't for a while, and were pleased with the results. In time however we found, that despite all the bells and whistles the new dishwasher seemed to achieved poorer results compared with the previous one.

So for a change we decided to add some rinse aid once and it made a very considerable difference in the wetness of all item types after a cycle, not only plastics but also, metals, glass and ceramics (in addition to considerably reducing cycle duration by 1/3 of the time, thus also saving energy).

A: What I do, if the recipe calls for any sort of oil, measure that first, then the honey slides out pretty well.

A: First, let the meat warm to about room temperature. This way you aren't trying to heat up a cold center. Personally I prefer to only cook each side once (meaning I only flip the meat over once). The actual temperature of your grill and the amount of time you cook it per side will depend on the thickness of the steak and how you want it done. Don't use a fork or knife to cut it open while it is grilling as this will let the juices out.

How to tell when a steak is done.

Also, I would argue that medium-well is not a properly cooked steak.

A: Technique

- 

Always use a cutting surface made for a knife, particularly a wooden chopping board/block. Avoid contact with hard surfaces such as metal, glass, or stone; these will quickly cause dulling or even chipping of most knives. Also avoid cutting frozen items, for the same reason.

- 

Use the dull end ("top") of the knife for scraping food off surfaces, or use a scraper or spatula instead. Knives are meant to cut straight, along the edge; scraping one sideways across any surface will misalign the edge very quickly.

- 

Do not use more force than necessary. A sharp knife should cut with very little effort. The more pressure you apply, the faster it will dull.

- 

Use a cleaver for bones or other very hard foods. General-purpose chef's knives or smaller knives aren't appropriate for this task, and may chip or even snap.

General Care

- 

Wash or rinse knives promptly after use. The moisture in many foods can be acidic and/or corrosive to the metal (fruits, onions, etc.).

- 

Dry knives immediately with a soft cloth or towel. Stainless steel is resistant to rust and corrosion but not immune. This goes for all metal but especially knives, because even an imperceptible amount of rust along the edge will drastically hinder its ability to cut. Air-drying may also leave you with stains or "spots" due to salts and other trace minerals in the water.

- 

Store knives in a dry, open area, away from other objects, to avoid moisture build-up, impacts, and secondary rust.

- 

Do not put a knife in the dishwasher. A knife in a dishwasher is subject to impacts, corrosion, and warping of the wooden handle/joint. Quality knives should be hand-washed.

Honing

Honing a knife is a good way to restore a slightly dull knife. You will need an honing steel (sometimes misleadingly referred to as a sharpening steel), which can be bought inexpensively. Note that there are differences between steels; the best value tends to be in the $30 (USD) range.

Honing is not the same as sharpening. Honing helps to align the existing edge, which becomes skewed or "curled" after regular use. It will not help to create a new edge if the knife is damaged, e.g. if it is corroded or chipped due to not following the "General Care" advice above.

To hone a knife:

- Keep the honing steel vertical.

- Hold the knife at a slight angle to the steel.

- Stroke downward and towards yourself.

- Alternate strokes, and do an equal number of times on both sides.

Here is a video illustrating the technique.
Sharpening

Knife sharpening involves a whetstone (AKA sharpening stone) and is an art unto itself. Some knife manufacturers do explain the process, however, the technique takes a long time to master and most home cooks will prefer to leave this to a professional.

If you find that regular honing is no longer effective at maintaining a knife's edge - and if it's been well-maintained, this should take several weeks or months - then it's time to get the knife sharpened.

- 

An alternative to professional sharpening (or learning to use a whetstone) is to use a good-quality motorized electric sharpener, such as the Chef's Choice. This will obviously not yield the same result as a professional sharpening, but it is very convenient and fast.

Some people believe that all electric sharpeners will damage your knives. This may still be true of the cheaper, single-stage sharpeners, because they do a lot of grinding and generate a lot of heat. However, the more modern, higher-end sharpeners operate very quickly, have precise angle control, and use multiple stages mimicking the manual process (grinding, steeling, stropping).

The "grinding" stage on a multi-stage sharpener should only be used if the knife is already badly damaged, and will actually create a new edge. If your knife is in reasonable shape, then it's fine to use a good sharpener on a semi-regular basis as long as you don't grind too much. (Honing should still be your primary form of maintenance).

- 

Yet another option, if you're on a tight budget, is to use sandpaper. Follow the link for additional information on technique, grit, and tutorials.

A: It is safe to eat a sprouted potato if it is still firm (source: University of Illinois); however, don't expect it to act the way an unsprouted potato would. Part of the starch will have converted to sugar.

Be sure to store potatoes somewhere cool and dry with good air circulation. Also, keep them away from onions.

A: Don't add oil, it's unnecessary and just adds fat to your pasta.

A better solution is to fix your timing issues by cooking the pasta later. Put the water on to boil before your sauce is done, but don't actually put the pasta in until the sauce is ready to go. Then, lower the heat on the sauce to keep it warm as the pasta cooks (which is only about 8 to 12 minutes, depending on the thickness and cut).

I also add a small amount of sauce to the pasta before serving it, which helps keep things loose once I've plated.

Additionally, as with most things, price makes a difference. Getting higher quality pasta will have an effect on the stickiness of the end product.

A: Besides the other things mentioned, wood is an insulator and is a poor thermal sink.

To explain -- have you ever tried to hold onto something plastic that's been in your freezer?  It can be quite uncomfortable.  (as can walking barefoot on one of those new plastic decks when it's been out in the sun).

Wood, however, so long as it wasn't soaked, can be held onto without risking a damp hand freezing to it ... both because it doesn't hold a lot of heat, but because it's an insulator, you only have to warm up the surface to make it bearable.

Texture also helps, in that it can make less contact with your skin, thus reducing the conductive transfer.  (the same's true for plastic, but they have to specially mold plastic to add texture, which makes it more difficult to release from the molds)

A: The Egg Nutrition Center's FAQ page has an entry on this very topic. Basically, the color of the egg does not affect the egg's flavor, nutritional value, etc. It simply depends on the particular breed of chicken that lays the egg -- white eggs from white hens, brown eggs from brown hens.

It's also worth noting, as the ENC points out: 

  

Generally, brown hens are larger and
  require more feed and therefore their
  eggs may be slightly higher priced.

A: In Indian cooking we usually add Ghee (Clarified butter) to reduce the heat of a chili pepper. Most Indian dishes, we would add a good heaping spoon of ghee before feeding little ones. This helps temper the heat but keeps the flavors alive so that the children get used to them and can gradually learn to eat hotter foods.

A: I've always understood the problem to be that you're heating up the refrigerator, which may be unsafe for the other food in the fridge. For the food you're cooling, it's not a problem.

A: "Sushi grade" means that it is safe to prepare and eat raw.  In order to do that, it must be frozen to kill any parasites.  That means it either has to be:

- Frozen at -20° C (-4° F) for 7 days; or

- Frozen at -35° C (-31° F - "flash frozen") for 15 hours.

There aren't any official regulations about the fish itself or its quality, and most sushi/sashimi distributors have much more stringent rules of their own beyond the freezing guarantee.

A: Yes, actually, there are two magic ingredients: Guar gum and Xanthan gum.

Guar gum is a thickener, but in small quantities can also prevent the growth of ice crystals which would cause the ice cream to harden into icicles.

Xanthan gum is a stabilizer which helps keep air (called overrun) in the mixture.  Air is generally churned into ice cream by ice cream machines, but it won't stay that way without the stabilizer.

A: In addition to the answers explaining that bananas do contain radioactive potassium, but in small amounts, it's also worth noting that your body maintains a fixed amount of potassium through metabolism. 

So even if you somehow manage to consume 5 million bananas, your body won't actually be exposed to 5 million Banana equivalent doses of radiation.

A: There's a whole, whole lot than can go into it, but a great starting place is a ratio of 17.21:1 water to coffee.  That is, if you have 500 g of water, you should use 29 g of ground coffee.  What the ratio really does is specify how concentrated the coffee should be.  Once you've set your ratio, there are many other variables to play with to make the coffee taste wonderful including grind size and consistency, bloom time, brew time, filter type, pour method, etc.

I wish I could post hyperlinks to all the individual videos of different french press techniques, but you can find them all at the wonderful site http://brewmethods.com   Specifically, please check out:

- James Hoffmann's French Press technique

- Mark Prince of CoffeeGeek demonstrates the Press Pot

Lastly, and please tell me if this isn't kosher, but I've made an iPhone app that will handle the coffee and water weight conversions automatically, as well as timing the brew and detailing a couple guidelines for different brew methods.  It's available on the app store as Brew Control.

A: It takes quite a while for a pot of hot soup to cool down to 40°F in the fridge. Several hours, sometimes, depending on the shape of the pot and the volume of soup. If you're heating and re-chilling the same soup daily, it's going to spend a lot of time in the danger zone. From a safety perspective, you'd be much better off making a pot of soup every few days and then reheating just the portion that you're actually going to eat.

  

I still recommend this money saving idea to current students

Soup is a great food for stretching a dollar, but I don't see how it's any more expensive to make a fresh pot twice a week and it shouldn't take much time either. I understand that you were adding scraps each night, but you could as easily save those scraps for a day or two until you make the next pot of soup.

Q: Why do some foods taste better the next day?

Many people think that certain foods, like lasagna, many stews and hearty soups, tomato sauce and so forth taste better the next day. My question is, is that really true, and if so, why? The conventional answer is essentially, "the flavors marry", but that doesn't mean much. I asked this question on Dave Arnold's Cooking Issues podcast and he had some interesting answers but I'm curious to see what else this community will come up with.

Q: Where does the green part of the scallion start and the white part end?

I've been using Hello Fresh for a while now and many of their recipes include the step: "Trim and thinly slice scallions, separating whites from greens."  Looking at a typical scallion, I see a clearly green part, a clearly white part, and a relatively substantial greenish-white no man's land in the in the middle.

In the recipes, the greens are used as a garnish or sometimes in salsas, so I feel like the super green, super thin parts are most desirable there.  The whites, on the other hand, are usually used as a cooked ingredient, sometimes, but not always in something lightly colored like rice.  In my gut, the greenish-white part feel like it should be considered a white, up until the part where it loses it's white-ish moisture and softness.  Are there any problems (flavor, cooked texture, etc) I should worry about by using that middle section as whites, or where should I draw the line?

Q: "Room temperature" and "cool, dry place" -- are there actual temperatures associated with these canned phrases?

When a product says "refrigerate" or "freeze", the temperature they're asking you to keep it at is not a mystery -- most refrigerators and freezers maintain an expected temperature range.

But other products indicate "room temperature" or that they should be stored in a "cool, dry place". Are there actual temperature ranges associated with these set phrases?

I grew up in North America, in a household where we couldn't afford to overly heat the house in the winter, or cool it in the summer. "Room temperature" was, therefore, 50-55°F (10-12.7°C) in the winter, and 85-90°F (29-32°C) in the summer. My perception of "room" temperature is similarly skewed -- this isn't at all "normal" from a N. American perspective, where most of my peers like to keep their houses at around 77°F/25°C in the winter, and 67°F/19°C in the summer. But I remain confused, at least, from a culinary perspective of what exactly I'm being asked when a product indicates these set phrases.

As a concrete example: I recently bought a tub of ghee. It indicates to me on the labelling that it does not require refrigeration, can be kept at "room temperature", and should be stored in a "cool, dry place". My apartment is 80°F/26.6°C right now -- is this "room temperature"? (It'll cool to ~61°F/16°C overnight.) In the meantime, it's significantly warmer than the store shelf I bought it from, and the ghee has gone from a soft solid to pure liquid. This change of state (solid -> liquid) is what prompted my concern that I'm misinterpreting "room temperature" in terms of food temperature and safety.

Q: How to peel hard boiled eggs easily?

This is one of the most annoying duties in the kitchen, for me.

What are yours tips and tricks to peel hard boiled eggs easily?

Q: Does active dry yeast really expire?

I was cleaning out my spice cabinet and deep in the back I found two packages (e.g., six envelopes) of active dry Red Star yeast that expired in March 2009, 15 months ago as of writing this question.

With the thought that dry yeast is basically freeze-dried and should have a decent shelf life, I proofed one envelope in warm water with some sugar to see if it really "expires". It foamed right up, so it seems like the answer is, at least for one year after the marked date, no.

Although in this case, does "expired" really mean "less effective" or "will taste funny"?

Q: Stock vs Broth - What's the difference in usage?

I've now learned (from this site) that broth and stock are not the same product (see this great answer). 

So, in any given scenario, why should one use stock rather than broth, or vice versa?

i.e. What's the practical difference? 

EDIT: I'm mostly looking for when to use one vs the other.

Q: Does ginger have to be peeled? If so how?

I noticed that many recipes that call for ginger explicitly call for peeled ginger.

When I use ginger I don't bother to peel it. As it is almost always minced fine the tiny bits of papery peel are almost undetectable.

Is there some reason that I should start peeling my ginger? Are there some dishes that are better served by using ginger that has been peeled?

Ginger is knobbier than a potato. Is there a better way to peel them than to just take a vegetable peeler to it?

FWIW- The recipe that provoked this question can be found here.

Q: Are carrots dyed orange?

I was in the supermarket and I noticed that one brand of "organic" carrots was a very pale orange, but another brand of carrots was bright orange.

Is this color difference because the carrots are being dyed?

Q: What is the difference between baking soda and baking powder?

And can I use one in place of the other in certain recipes?

Q: Why does a brown paper bag speed ripening?

I often see this technique suggested as a way to speed ripening. Why does it?

Also, is there any data available on how fast it ripens comparatively?

Q: Caffeine content of cold-brewed coffee: higher or lower than hot-brewed?

I recently rediscovered the joys of cold-brewing coffee. (One level cup of rough-ground beans, 4-1/2 cups of cold water, steeped overnight and strained, produces a rich coffee concentrate. A shot or three of concentrate in a mug topped with hot water makes a cup of coffee; poured over ice and milk makes a fantastic iced coffee drink.)

The information I've found online is contradictory. One site says this method produces a drink with less caffeine than traditional hot-brewed coffee; another says it actually contains more caffeine.

On the one hand, there's the heat in the traditional method. On the other hand, the beans are in contact with the water for twelve hours in the cold method. It seems as if the caffeine content could be identical? While the beans used will, of course, alter the outcome, does anyone know for certain if cold-brewed coffee has more or less caffeine than hot-brewed?

Q: What temperatures should I keep my refrigerator and freezer set at?

For a refrigerator, if it's cooler, items like milk and meat last a bit longer. However if I set it close to freezing then some items start showing frost on them. What temperature should I set my refrigerator to for best overall results?

Since the person answering is likely to know, I'm also asking what temperature I should set my freezer to.

Q: How can I train myself to identify flavors better?

I'd love to be able to cook well and I think a part of that is identifying flavors.

We all have different palates, but there are probably some basic techniques that can be used to figure out what the meal is made out of.

For example, there is a spicy Indian dish at a restaurant nearby that I love and it's pretty simple (chicken and rice), but I can't identify the contents of the marinade, and the owner wont tell me what it is.

So, outside of trying every spice there is, what are some tips to identify flavors?

Q: Why use yeast instead of baking powder?

Both yeast and baking powder are used to gas-fill the pastry, make it expand and thus make it soft and fluffy.

Using yeast is rather inconvenient - it can be dead already or if the yeast is submerged in too hot water it can die and also waiting for yeast to work to let it gas-fill the pastry before baking is also not that convenient. Looks like the baking powder is more convenient - it can be stored for ages, can be mixed with hot water, baking can be started immediately after mixing the pastry.

Why is yeast used then? What are those advantages of yeast tham make people use yeast and not the baking powder?

Q: Why is 180 degrees C so common in recipes?

Is there any particular reason 180 degrees Celsius is so commonly called for in baking, roasting, deep frying?

Q: Can one be "taste blind" to the sweetness of stevia?

I bought some stevia powder today and tried to make waffles with it, replacing the sugar. However, no matter how much stevia I poured into the dough (carefully adding tea spoon by tea spoon, tasting it each time), I couldn't really taste any sweetness.

Other family members said the dough was already very sweet.

Then I tried a pinch of stevia powder purely, and it tasted slightly bitter at first and minimally sweet after a few seconds.

From the description, stevia should be magnitudes sweeter than sugar though.

Is it possible that some people don't have the necessary taste receptors that would react on stevia and are therefore "taste blind" to its sweetness? If so, are there any numbers or guesses how many people are unable to taste it? I could not find any online resources about that, but it would be useful to know how likely e.g. a guest will not be able to taste it.

Additionally, might there be any "workarounds", like adding something to make the stevia sweetness available?

Update: I just checked the product I bought again, it's actually a mixture (proportions not mentioned in the ingredients list) of maltodextrin and steviol glycosides.

Q: Is this a bad apple?

I cut my apple open this morning and found that it had an unexpected consistency emanating from the core. I couldn't find much about what's going on here other than maybe this is some kind of mold (seems unlikely). 

What's going on with this apple?

This particular apple was part of an Amazon Fresh delivery. I've had about 10 of them up to this point, all of which were good apples.

I took a bite before throwing it out. It tasted fine and the texture is the same as far as I can tell (dense, fibrous). Ultimately I decided to toss it erring on the side of caution.

Q: If you add spices to boiling pasta, will it absorb spices/flavours?

If you are cooking pasta via simmering, and you add some spices e.g. pepper to the pot, will the pasta absorb the spices/flavors or will the spices just go to the top of the pot and not really get absorbed?

Q: How to quickly and safely defrost chicken?

What is the safest, quick way to defrost chicken? Microwave? Running water over it?

Q: Pasta: is simmering equivalent to roiling boil?

I recently got into a surprisingly heated argument with a friend about what level of boil you should cook your pasta at. He (an engineer) argued that the heat transfer would remain the same regardless of the level of the boil and that anything above a simmer would be a waste of energy. I looked at it less from a heat transfer point of view and argued that a higher boil would increase agitation and cause the noodles to stick less to each other.

So what is it? Is a higher boil actually a waste of (a minuscule amount of) energy?

Q: Why is there cow cheese but no pig cheese?

I have always wondered what there is no cheese made from other milks other than cow, goat or sheep. Are they not suitable for humans? Do they taste bad? Is it even possible to make dairy products with them?

Q: What's the difference between latte, mocha, and all the other drinks on a coffee-house menu?

There are many different coffee-based drinks on an average coffee-house menu.  But what makes them different from each other?  What are the differences / distinguishing characteristics between: latte, caffe misto, cappuccino, mocha, macchiato, Americano, and Cafe Au Lait?

Q: How do I make prettier fried eggs?

I have no problem cooking fried eggs to my desired doneness or keeping them intact while cooking and serving. 

But eggs cooked by professional chefs and diner line cooks look like this: 

The white is round and mostly white; the yolk is basically centered.

My fried eggs look like this: 

The yolk won't stay in the center (even though I let the white firm a little before adding the yolk to the pan), and the white looks like the British coastline. (Ignoring, of course, the detritus of the leftover onions and peas - those are attributed simply to laziness of the cook.)

How do the pros get their eggs to stay so symmetrical and pretty?

Q: Why should (or shouldn't) we wash rice before cooking?

There are pretty confusing articles on this topic on the internet.
Some suggest that we should wash them to remove starch, talc, etc. Some suggest that we should not wash them because they are fortified with minerals.

This also varies according to the type of rice - short grain, Jasmine, Basmati, etc. It would be great to have logical reasons instead of just instructions.

Q: What caused my meringue to fall after adding cocoa?

I made a very nice stiff batch of meringue for meringue cookies. I piped half of the batch on the cookie sheet and they looked wonderful (or at least they were nicely stiff, and I need to practice my piping). For the second half, I wanted chocolate, so I added Hershey's (dark) cocoa powder. I didn't measure the cocoa powder. As I whisked it in, the batch ( that had been wonderful) turned very runny. I tried adding more sugar in hopes of reviving it, but to no avail. So from the same batch I had nice white curly kisses and flat chocolate blobs. 

Was it the amount of cocoa powder?

Was it the fact that it was dark cocoa?

Was it the timing -- don't try to add something after it had been sitting about 10 minutes?

Something else?

I thought I finally got the consistency just right with the first half of the batch. --If only I had been satisfied with just vanilla...
Help?

Q: How to know when a recipe shouldn't contain onion/garlic?

When travelling at a campsite, our resident cook made a Bolognese, and for fun I asked the Italian campers what they thought about it (playing on the stereotype that they are serious about their food) not expecting them to actually be serious about their food! They looked at me kind of disappointed and told me there was garlic in the Bolognese... "There shouldn't be garlic in a Bolognese" they uttered quietly.

Since then this question has driven me crazy. I want to know technically what garlic and onion is adding to the flavour, why and when it is desirable, and when it isn't.

Q: How to clean mushrooms?

Some people say cleaning with water removes the taste from mushrooms. 

But if I don't use water the mushrooms will carry a lot of dust.

Do you have any techniques for cleaning mushroom so I don't eat crap but don't spoil the mushroom?

Q: How do you reduce static in a coffee grinder?

Is there a way to reduce/eliminate the static buildup in a burr grinder?  I've tried a few different coffee grinders and inevitably on removing the grinds bin, I get a spray of coffee all over the counter.

Q: Why does this entire carton of eggs have 2 yolks each?

I got chills this morning making breakfast as I cracked open 6 eggs in a row, all having 2 yolks each.

I've read this is caused by an anomaly that is considered normal in an egg here and there.

I guess the question is, is a whole crate of double-yolk eggs a "bad" thing or a "good" thing? I'm inclined to go with "good" because it seems there's a heck of a lot more protein and nutrients in a double-yoked egg. And yes, that omelette did end up tasting like a 12-egg omelette with half the whites discarded.

Yet, having no good evidence whatsoever I'm suspicious these hens were dosed with some fertility drug.

Thoughts?

Note: Yes all 12 eggs ended up having 2 yolks each.

Q: Was honey in ancient times different than now?

I am trying to reproduce a recipe found in the Roman "cookbook" Apicius, Conditum paradoxum: it is a spiced wine that calls for honey as an ingredient, but it uses a lot (30 % of the volume of the wine).

This means – adapting the recipe, that originally is for 14 11 liters of wine – that for a bottle of wine I should add 230 ml of honey (340 g if considering a density of 1,45 kg/l). 

I was wondering if the honey produced in ancient times could be perhaps "lighter" than the honey we know; this could, at least a little, allow me to reduce the sweetness.

Q: How to fix food that got extra salty?

How to fix food that got extra salty? I imagine this depends on what the food is. With spaghetti, you can add water or change water if you detect it on time. But what about grilled meat? Or a tomato sauce?

Q: How do you cook a steak like those found in fine steakhouses?

I went to a 5* restaurant once, the steak was unbelievable.  You could cut it with a butter knife, it was fat and juicy, pink in the middle, great stuff.

When I cook it at home, I seem to just slice the beef thick, shallow fry it in olive oil with some garlic and  that is all.  It tastes pretty good, but is so far off what I had in that restaurant.

Anyone know how to cook the best steak?  Better cuts of meat?  Fry in butter?

Also any tips in general on how to cook good steak.  All appreciated!

Q: White pepper vs. black pepper

Other than color, what is the difference between white pepper and black pepper? I thought it was purely a color thing so that black pepper wouldn't ruin the color of, say, a white sauce. We tried white pepper in a few dishes and in all cases, they were wretched. (FWIW: one recipe was Alfredo sauce.) The only things I can come up with are:

- There is a substantial difference between the 2 and we apparently do not like white pepper

- There is not a substantial difference but we got a bad batch of white pepper

- There may or may not be a difference, but the recipes we tried should not have included this spice

Which is correct?

Q: What should I look for in a good, multi-purpose chef's knife?

If I want to buy a good multi-purpose chef's knife, which characteristics should I look for?

Q: Why do tomatoes get so hot?

Ever noticed how certain foods seem to get a lot hotter than others?  I almost never burn my tongue or mouth... except on tomatoes;  Pizza sauce, tomatoes in panini sandwiches or spaghetti sauce.  

Tomatoes always seem to get hotter and retain their heat longer than almost any other food I've encountered. And they are nearly always the culprit when I succeed in burning my mouth.  

Why would that be? Is there something about their chemistry that causes them to have a higher heat capacity?  Do they hold their heat longer? Or is it simply a figment of my imagination and bad luck with hot tomatoes?

Q: What does "do." mean in old recipes?

I'm reading through a book of cocktails from 1865 and I often seen the measurement for a given ingredient listed as "do.". What does this mean?

Examples:

  

40 1/2 ounces of roast and ground cocoa.

  6 2/3 do. ground cardamom seeds.

  6 2/3 do. ground Ceylon cinnamon.

  7 pints of alcohol, 95 per cent.

  20 do. water.

Or:

  

2 gallons of ground malt.

  6 do. water, at 142° (degrees) heat.

Or, most bafflingly:

  

1 pound = 16 ounces

  1/2 do. = 8 do.

  1/4 do. = 4 do.

Q: What does "natural" actually mean?

More and more I see "natural" or "all natural" labels on the slightly-cheaper alternatives next to "organic" products, and I find it somewhat confusing. I know that (for example) tofu does not occur in nature, so obviously "natural" does not refer to the whole product, but to the ingredients. But many common ingredients do not occur naturally in the processed forms that we use either.

Today I saw an ad declaring the "first all-natural burger in fast food". This seems like a pretty specific claim for something so nebulous, so it led me to wonder: What exactly does "natural" mean in the context of food? Are there specific rules, or can anyone slap a "natural" label on anything?

Q: Why use onions in cooking?

Onions are an ingredient in almost every recipe. I hate the taste(flavour) of them (I know I might be the only one). I always try to avoid eating them and try to pick them out of the food. Seeing that I am the only one in the house that doesn’t like the taste of onions not using them in a recipe would be selfish. 

I was just wondering (a) if there would be a good substitute or (b) do I really need to have them in a recipe? And (c) what purpose do they add to food?

Q: Why are certain fruit & veg bought in UK supermarkets tasteless?

I have been to Italy, Greece & Turkey. Fruit & Veg in these places tastes amazing! So much flavour, really awesome!

In the UK when I buy the same fruit or veg, it is absolutely tasteless, it is just crunchy water!

Why is this? I used to think it was because there was very little Sun here. However, many of the fruit & veg in question come from Spain! A place with a lot of sunshine! Something else must be in play!

I am talking about melons & watermelons, grapes, tomatoes, cucumbers, plums, peaches, oranges and much more!

Any clarification would be greatly appreciated.

PS. Places I shop at are Tesco, Aldi, Lidl, Asda, Sainsburys.

Q: Which method of killing the lobster would cause the least pain and distress?

The most common way of killing a lobster is to put it into boiling water, however we can read on Wikipedia page that it is one of the methods which cause pain and distress.

The killing methods most likely to cause pain and distress are:

- 

Placing crustaceans directly into boiling water

- 

Placing crustaceans in slowly heated water to the boiling point

- 

Placing marine crustaceans in fresh water

- 

...

Secondly, we can read here about the following study:

Dan Ward, then a grad student at the University of New Hampshire, once hooked an electrode up to a Lobster heart for me and boiled it. The heart beat for 1 minute 53 seconds.

So the question is, what is the most humane way to kill a lobster?

Q: How can you make a sauce less spicy/hot?

Sometimes when I'm making a sauce or soup that needs to be a bit spicy, I have no troubles spicing how I want to.

But if the dinner party is a bit late, or I made the sauce in advance to really draw out all the flavors of the spices, vegetables and meat, sometimes I end up with a way too spicy/hot dish.

You can always pour a bit water and try to dilute it a bit, but that also takes away all of the good flavor. So is there some trick that I'm missing I can use, when this happens to me (other than being more careful or using the spices later)?

Q: Why do we use so much water to cook spaghetti?

Every time I cook spaghetti in a regular pot, I get the feeling that I could save litres of water if the pot had been created with spaghetti cooking in mind. This is especially true when I only need 1-2 portions. Cooking smaller pasta is more efficient.

Is there a culinary reason for using so much water? Do professional kitchens use a better method?

Q: Explanation of different egg preparations

When we go to a restaurant for breakfast and order eggs, we are often asked how we want them.  I have a handful of ways that I will eat them (I often prefer over-medium) and I am sure there are a large number of ways to prepare eggs I am unfamiliar with.

I have a question then on the various technical definitions of these preparations if I were to go into the kitchen and prepare eggs for someone else. A good start would be the difference in over-{insert proper word} preparations or distinctions between some of the more popular methods.

Q: Dishwasher safety - "top shelf" vs. "bottom shelf"

The instruction manual for some of my kitchen equipment says "Dishwasher safe (top shelf)".

What difference is there between what an object on the top shelf of a dishwasher experiences, and what happens to an object on the bottom shelf?

What are the risks of putting one of these items on the bottom shelf?

Q: What is it about boring, normal ketchup that makes it "fancy"?

Ketchup, at least in the USA, is about as boring as a condiment can possibly get. It's hard to imagine anything "fancy" coming out of a tube like this:

Why, then, is it frequently called "fancy"?  Is there some other type of tomato ketchup that is less fancy, and has fallen out of popular usage, such that the "fancy" designation actually carries some meaning lost to history?

Q: How do restaurants make chicken fried rice? What ingredient am I missing?

Everytime I try to make chicken fried rice like I get at the take out place it never tastes like it does when they make it. We all know the basic ingredients

Rice (1 day old),
Chicken,
Green Onions,
Sprouts,
Eggs,
Soy Sauce,
MSG (optional)

I have a wok and I cook it just like them, I've heard all sorts of things as to what the "missing" or "secret" ingredient is. Some say it's a different type of soy sauce (not the standard La Choy) that they use. 

I've been searching for definitive answers for this for a long time. It seems no one knows or anyone who's worked in a chinese place doesn't wish to share the knowledge. I went as far as adding MSG thinking that was what made the take-out place's Fried Rice taste different. MSG helps (sold as Accent Flavor Enhancer in your spice aisle) but that's not it.

Q: What was Indian food like before the arrival of the chili pepper from the Americas?

One of the things associated with Indian cuisine is heat from chili peppers. Yet, chili peppers can only have been introduced to Asia from their Central and South American homeland after the Spanish conquests of the 1500s.

What was Indian food like before this time? Did heat come from elsewhere or were Indian people eating bland, boring food? Or have I got my food history completely back to front?

Q: Tea water: heat to 80&#160;&#176;C or boil to 100&#160;&#176;C and let it cool down to 80&#160;&#176;C?

Boiling water is too hot for some teas. Today I heard that it's better to boil water to 100 °C and let it cool down to 80 °C rather than heat water to 80 °C. Is this true? Does it really affect properties of the water, other than killing bacteria?

Q: What qualities to look for in a cut of beef destined for "well done"?

The major cooking advice is to buy a certain cut (sirloin, etc..) and cook it to rare-degrees. 
However, my guests don't like beef that has any pink inside or "blood" (I know it isn't blood) oozing out. I don't assume the same cuts still produce the tastiest steak? 

What are the properties of raw beef that result in a great well-done steak and which cuts normally present these properties?

Q: How can I make bacon powder?

I want to make bacon powder, I assume the means cooking all of the fat out without burning the meat.  Is this right?  if so how should I do this?  If not what should I do?  How should I turn the bacon into powder?  just in a blender?

Q: Resources that explain the science of cooking?

I have been cooking for a while now, but its mostly what I picked up watching others cook. Now, I am an engineer by profession, and it seems there ought to be a reason for cooking food the way it is done.

I'm curious to understand the science of what's actually happening in cooking. Why it is that everything actually works the way it does?

What resources are there (books, websites, tv/video series) that explain the science behind cooking, as opposed to the art and trial-and-error process that it actually is in practice?

Note: new answers should be added to the existing community wiki answer. They should keep to the existing format: explain what the book is about, your general impressions, pros and cons, scientific depth, etc. No need for a full-page review but please explain your suggestion.

Q: Why is it necessary to preheat an oven?

Just about every recipe advises to preheat the oven before using it. I often forget this, but luckily this doesn't seem to matter all that much. Hence my question: why would it be necessary to preheat the oven?

Q: Should I peel kiwifruit?

What should I do with the kiwi peel? 

I've got no problem with its taste and feel 

and eat them whole when I'm by myself. 

Is it in any way bad for my health?

Q: How do you ensure a tortilla keeps all its contents when making a burrito?

What's the best technique to tuck or close the tortilla when preparing a burrito so that it doesn't come undone when it's time to eat?

Q: What are the impacts of common pizza dough errors?

I'm diving into the world of making pizzas from scratch, and I'd like to take a systematic approach to the possible mistakes I could make with regards to the dough.

What impact do each of the following errors have on the final taste/texture of the pizza crust?

- Using old yeast or too much/too little yeast (I assume that using old yeast is the same as using too little yeast?)

- Too high or too low of a water to flour ratio

- Overworking or underworking the dough

- Too much or too little resting time of dough

Q: What is the difference between green, white and black tea?

What is the difference between green, white and black tea? Are all based on original tea leaves?

Q: Identify a round kitchen tool with perforated and hinged metal leaves

My old roommate left this in my kitchen before moving out.  I can't remember what it is or used for.  Is this part of a grill?  Does it go in my sink to trap things that shouldn't go down the drain?  What is it used for?

Q: Should pasta be started in cold or boiling water?

There are two main methods, either putting the strands into water already at boiling point, or putting them in cold water and then putting on the heat. 

Which method is the best to cook pasta?

Does it make a difference if you add pasta to cold or boiling water?

Q: How do I add a strong "onion flavor" to the biryani (in restaurant style)?

I've had chicken biryani in restaurants and their biryanis taste extremely different from what we prepare at home. I'm not sure how to describe it except that it's an "onion flavor".

We've got loads of biryani recipes and they're all more or less the same.

After a lot of pondering over the difference, I've begun to suspect that the restaurants are doing either of these things (or a combination of them):

- 

They're somehow adding an onion flavor. Either that or they're adding something else that has a strong pungent, sour flavor. 

- 

They're adding an ingredient that gives a slight sweet taste. It's not tomato sauce, tomato puree, or sugar. There's something else. I've tried all of these methods.

- 

Perhaps it's milk in some way. 

How can I give a strong "onion flavor" or something similar to it to my biryani? How are the restaurants doing it?

Edit: I ordered chicken biryani from the restaurant again and have added some pics. Please take a look at these pics to get an idea about this recipe/onion flavor. So far, no answer talks about creating the lump of onion shown in the pics. Those lumps of onions are the key to creating this flavor:

Pic of an "onion glob". This is the strangest thing in the recipe. There are globs of onions between the rice. These are basically lumps of onions that stick together. They resemble a pigeon's egg (size and shape-wise). I've crushed open an onion glob to show what it looks like.
Note: There are NO onions in the rice. Only the onion globs + chicken pieces (which contain very small pieces of onions).

Inferences: They are clearly not deep frying the onions. I believe deep frying them leads to crispyness. These onions aren't crisp.

2) Pic of the chicken pieces: Another surprising thing about the taste is that the chicken pieces taste almost the same as the onion globs, except they're sweeter. 

Inferences: I'm guessing that they've mixed tomato sauce with the chicken but can't say for sure. 

3) Pic of the rice:
The rice seems to have very little oil. It sticks to my fingers. I can see that half of it looks like plain rice. All of it has a very very strong onion-like smell.

Inferences: I suspect that the rice was cooked separately entirely. Then it was mixed with the onion globs, and steamed a little bit to catch that aroma.

Q: When making yogurt, why doesn't bad bacteria grow as well?

I've been making Yogurt and Coconut Yogurt for a long time. I've always wondered why one can't leave milk out for more than an hour or so without it going off, yet when adding cultures or probiotics all of a sudden this isn't a concern.

Q: Why does pistachio ice cream not taste like pistachio nuts?

I have eaten pistachio nuts (roasted, salted) many times and I like it. I also like pistachio flavoured ice cream, but I don't find it much similar. If it wasn't named like that, I would probably not make the connection at all.

Why is the flavour so different? Is it similar to "Banana" flavoured ice cream, which often uses some chemical compounds supposed to taste like banana, but which doesn't really either?

Q: If one tomato had molded, is the rest of the pack safe to eat?

Yesterday I bought a pack of cherry tomatoes and after arriving home I discovered that one of them had developed some impressive black mold (it was bigger than the tomato itself!). Of course, I tossed the offending tomato and the packaging, washed the remaining tomatoes and put them in a clean box. Now I'm hesitating though; are they safe to eat?

Q: How do I pound chicken (or other meat) without making a mess?

Despite my best efforts, my kitchen (and sometimes the chicken) always looks like a war zone after pounding 8 or 10 breasts.  Maybe this is just a messy job, but I think there must be something I'm missing.

I've tried using mallets, both metal and wooden  The meat always gets stuck to the pounding surface and the mallet.  I've tried putting the meat inside a plastic sandwich bag or freezer bag; the bag is always ripping and falling apart before the meat is flat.  Wax paper is about the same.

I've also tried rolling pins.  Even got a "non-stick" one.  This way is even more hopeless for me, because the meat either slides around on the surface or sticks to the pin (doesn't matter if I use flour).

Surely there must be a combination of tools and techniques that would allow me to complete this task without requiring 20 minutes of constant cursing and an extra hour of cleanup.

Can anyone point me in the right direction?

Q: What oil or fat to use for different purposes?

I understand that one of the main reasons to use different kinds of fat or oil is the temperature at which it burns, e.g. an extra-virgin olive oil to fry a steak wouldn't work. Taste is also a very important aspect. Can you give a list of the most commonly used oils/fats and what they are used for?

Q: How do I prevent an egg cracking while hard boiling it?

Sometimes when I cook hard boiled eggs they will crack in the saucepan, and some of the egg will seep out into the water.

Am I boiling the water too vigorously, or can I add something to the water to prevent it?

Q: How can brown stains be removed from pots and pans?

I haven't been cooking for long &#8212; recent college grad &#8212; so I'm doing a lot of experimentation and making a lot of rookie mistakes.  One of them is shown here for your viewing pleasure:

My mom gifted me this pan less than a year ago.  She used it for over 15 years and kept it spotless the entire time, so I'm more than a little embarassed.  I suspect that these stains were caused by stray drops of oil getting onto the bottom of the pan and getting burned on.  Is that right, or were they caused by something else?  I use an electric stove with resistive heating coils, if it makes a difference.  And more importantly, how can I get this pan clean again?

Q: What is the purpose of creaming butter with sugar in cookie recipes?

I got distracted while assembling the dry ingredients for a cookie recipe and added the sugars, which were supposed to be creamed with the butter first. Fortunately, the sugar was added last and I was able to salvage enough to cream it.

What does creaming the butter and sugar actually do? Had it been on the bottom of the bowl under the flour etc, could I have just beat everything together?

The recipe is simple and just calls for creaming and then adding egg, and after that, dry ingredients. It's nothing fancy.

Q: How to test that a knife is sharp enough?

As per the question - how to I test that a knife is sharp enough?

And/or, how do you know when a knife needs sharpening?

Edit:

Yesterday I attempted (I feel quite successfully) to hone my knives for the first time ever (requiring me to purchase a honing steel), which immediately made a rather noticable difference (I shall be honing them regularly from now on).

Not sure whether additionally sharpening them as well would be a good idea?

The suggested tomato and paper tests make sense, and I shall try them in the near future and see..

Q: transfer pizza onto stone without sticking

After I have made my pizza and put the toppings onto it, I find that I am unable to transfer the pizza on to the pizza stone in the oven.

When I try to do it the pizza goes out of shape, gets folded, the toppings get messed up and sometimes it sticks or rips. I have tried putting lots of flour under the pizza before I add the toppings but it didn't really help.

I am having to make the pizza on a metal tray and then put the tray onto the stone. Put I think that doing this prevents my pizza base from crisping properly.

What am I doing wrong? Is there some technique I should use, or am making the dough to wet, or to thin or something?

Q: How much juice is in a lemon?

A lot of recipes call for the "juice of a lemon". I keep a bottle of lemon juice in the fridge as this is easier, cheaper and more convenient than buying lemons all the time but my problem is I never know how much juice should come out of a lemon. Surely it depends how thoroughly you squeeze it?

Does anyone know approximately what volume of liquid is meant when a recipe says "juice of a lemon"?

Q: Do magnets dull knives?

A friend of mine bought some new, very sharp knives. He has a magnetic strip that he uses to store knives, but he does not put these new knives there because he says magnets dull knives.

Is that true? I've never heard of this. If so, why do magnets dull knives?

Q: What is this cutting spatula with holes? (See photo)

What is this tool? What is it called and what is it for?

It's like a steel angled spatula with a cutting end and holes on the tip. It's not big (see the finger for reference), little more than a centimeter wide in the tip. The cord in the photo is just something in the floor.

I've tried to find this in Google Images several ways to no success.

Q: Is pad thai actually Thai?

More like meta-cooking question, but I believe it fits here better than on travel stack.

All around the world, one of the symbols of Thailand is Pad Thai. And multiple versions of curry.

But when I wander around Bangkok or other Thai cities, I see pad thai served mostly in tourist areas like Khao San Road and its surroundings, around the Royal Palace, etc.
When I look and most food street carts there are plenty of sticks (meat/fish/sausages/balls/seafood put on short wooden sticks and grilled over fire), soups (tom yum based, clear soup with noodles, wonton's), many kinds of meat, seafood, noodles (though not strictly pad thai I think) and so on.
Not that many curries either, but in more in-house restaurants you can find them.

So my question is - is the pad thai really Thai? Maybe I'm just overlooking it, or search in wrong places. Or is it a dish once found by a western traveller, made famous in the West and then its renown came back with the travellers.

Q: Cooking Scrambled Eggs ends up with excess liquid

Every time I cook scrambled eggs with veggies or meat in them, there is always liquid at the bottom of the bowl I'm eating them from. Even if I super cook the eggs, even if I super cook the extras first. Always liquid. It's very annoying. I think maybe it is because I put the eggs in a bowl right when they are done cooking and that is creating some sort of condensation. Should I wait a bit before plating? Maybe it's something else? I could really use advice. Having runny eggs is a disgrace.

Q: What is this device?

What is this device called? The length is exactly 12 inches.

Q: Does water "go bad" in this sense?

I have an electric water boiler in the kitchen. I put fresh tap water into it, boil it up, and use it for my coffee. Then, an hour later, I go back and press the button again and have it re-boil the now room-temperature water, and use it for another cup. Sometimes, several hours pass; sometimes, half a day.

When "too long" has passed, I tend to empty it and put fresh tap water into it, because it feels like it has "gone bad".

Is this silly? Can water really "go bad" like that? Is there any difference whatsoever between freshly poured water and water that has been standing still in the container half a day or even the entire day?

It's still gonna be boiled? Doesn't that "neutralize" basically any kind of water?

Q: How did replacing flour in muffins go so wrong?

I had a whole bag of Cocoa Puffs that had gone stale, and thought it would be fun to mess around and see if I could bake something with them. So I aimed for muffins. I more or less based it on a banana muffin recipe I make all the time:

- 2 1/2 cups ground Cocoa Puffs (I used this to replace both flour and sugar)

- 1 tbsp baking powder

- 1/4 tsp salt

- 1/3 cup vegetable oil

- 1 egg

- 1 cup milk

- 1/2 cup vanilla yogurt (I figured this plus extra milk would make up the mass, pH, and moisture content of the bananas)

I didn't really expect it to go well, but I figured I'd probably have bad muffins, not this:

The batter was stretchy, like less-sticky bread dough. I spooned it into paper cups and baked it at 400ºF. At first they looked like they were puffing up as expected, then they looked a little imploded in the center and shiny on top, then one by one they burst and started dripping everywhere. I expected 20–25 minutes but had to pull them out at 15. The aftermath was soft but cohesive and a little rubbery, not at all hard to clean.

So, lesson learned: Cocoa Puffs are not flour. But what chemical reaction happened or didn't happen to make it go this wrong?

Q: Food temperature "danger zone" - is it really binary?

It's very widely reported (including here) that the food temperature "danger zone" is between around 40°F (4.4°C) and 140°F (60°C) and that if perishable food is at this temperature for longer than 4 hours it should be discarded. In fact this is literally the FDA's recommendation. On the other hand, under 40°F (4.4°C) seems to be considered safe for most foods for a few days or more and I've read that food kept over 140°F (60°C) (such as in smokers, slow cookers, etc.) is safe effectively indefinitely.

Common sense tells us these boundaries can't literally be as hard as they are sometimes made out to be. It can't be the case that 39°F (3.9°C) and 141°F (60.6°C) are safe for days or even indefinitely, but 40-140°F (4.4-60°C) is only safe for 4 hours. Or that 3:59 hours at 75°F (23.9°C) is perfectly safe but 4:01 hours at 41°F (5°C) isn't. Can it?

So are there more granular guidelines or data out there that can guide us on food safety objectively (e.g., bacteria growth rate or similar) as a function of both temperature and time? I'm thinking of something along the lines of the salmonella pasteurization guidelines which, if you follow them, allow you to cook chicken at much lower than 165°F (73.9°C), for example, provided you maintain that temperature for sufficient time. For refrigeration temperature unfortunately I have not been able to find anything other than the typical binary guidelines.

If I'm wrong and the issue is in fact binary, I'd love to better understand why.

Q: Why should I "rest" meat after cooking?

I often read in recipes that I should "rest" meat after it has been cooked but what does resting the meat actually do?

Q: Nonstick cookware or not?

I am looking to replace my >10 year old Calphalon nonstick cookware. I can see the nonstick surface coming off the pans, and am starting to worry about how much of that is getting into our food. 

I love the ease of cleaning nonstick cookware, but am wary of buying it again. Should I opt for nonstick or not?

Q: How to succeed with making omelette

Sounds simple but I seem to fail every time, that is it turns into scrambled eggs instead. How do you make it so that you can flip it over both without it breaking and before it burns?

Q: What does a healthy cast iron skillet look like?

I've read plenty about how to restore and season cast iron, but I have no clue whether any of the old cast iron I've inherited could benefit from this.

Is healthy cast iron black? or should it be somewhat metallic looking (ie. a bit silvery, like steel). Does the black color come from even one seasoning process, or will it develop over time?

Is is smooth? or is it alright if there are some lumps in it's surface texture?

and finally: after seasoning, is the surface supposed to have a slight oily appearance or should it be totally dry? and will healthy cast iron leave a residue on a rag if I wipe it? Some of mine do, and I'm not sure if that is good or bad.

Q: Does ceramic non-stick cookware "fail", and if so, how?

I've heard of pans with ceramic non-stick surfaces; it seems some reports on internet say they may "fail" in about 6 months.

How can these pans "fail"? Do ceramic-coated pans require non-stick-friendly devices?

Normal nonstick surfaces fail by getting scratched, having spray-on butter encrusted into it, and if damaged could release toxic coating. Do ceramic non-stick surfaces have a similar problem?

Q: Why did my grandfather-in-law salt his beer?

My grandfather-in-law was born in England in the 1920s and fought in World War II. Somewhere along the line he acquired the habit of salting his beer before drinking it, which persisted for the rest of his life. I'm as curious about the cultural genesis of the practice as the food science of it – was there perhaps something about wartime beer that made it unpalatable without salt? I know there were other wartime food customs like bread and scrape so it doesn't seem implausible, but the "why" of this one isn't so obvious.

Q: What's (really) the difference between fruit and vegetables?

I was wondering what's (really) the difference between fruit and vegetables. Obviously I can name different fruits and vegetables, but if you ask me what's really the distinguishing factor, I wouldn't know.

Things that I think may be the difference are:

- Taste: sweet or not

- Historical reasons

- Whether it is mostly eaten raw or cooked/baked

But for all of the above there seem to be some fruits/vegetables, for which it isn't clear under which category they fall. So, what's the difference between them?

Thanks in advance.

Q: When a recipe asks to add spices to the oil, can you add the spices directly to the sauce for the same effect?

Many chefs add spices to the oil because the "oil brings out the flavors". But I want to experiment with different spices and quantities (which is hard because you can't taste the oil and predict the end result). My question - when a recipe clearly asks for spices in the oil, how can you add the spices to the finished sauce for the same effect?

Q: What is this glass object for?

I inherited a bar set. It has a wide variety of glassware, all of which I recognize except this piece

The bottom portion holds a 1/2 cup. There is a small hole connecting the top and bottom. The top section is about 2in in diameter with a 3/4 inch opening between the top and the bottom. It is awkward to pour out of it and impossible to drink out of it. There are 12 of them, along with all the other glassware.

There are no markings on the glassware or the bar itself. The bar only contains liquor glasses (Collins glass, cordial glass, old fashion glass, shot glass) and no wine glasses or beer glasses.

What is its purpose?

Q: Why is a roux necessary?

A classic bechamel sauce is a roux and milk. Why can’t I just add the flour directly to the milk and cook till thickened, stirring vigorously to keep it from clumping?

Q: What is the use of this strange contraption on this serving fork?

I just bought an old fork + knife set at a flea market. The kind of big cutlery that is used to cut and serve chicken, roasted meat, whatever.

The strange thing is that the fork has a moving part on the top of it. I don't know how to describe it, so here are the photos. This thing can be put up or down, and it doesn't have any spring, but it can stay in position (for both positions).

What is the purpose of this? I have never seen such a thing before.

For information, this was found in France, and the set is probably 50 years old or so.

Q: What is the difference between various types of flour?

Is there a difference between the various types of flour that you see in the stores (i.e. Cake, Bread, and All-Purpose?  Is it really necessary to stock 3 types of flour in my pantry or is this just a scheme from the manufacturers to get more money?

Q: Can I boil pasta in a pasta sauce?

Is it ok to boil pasta in pan with a pasta sauce?

Is there any reason to boil pasta separately (and then add the sauce)?

Q: How safe is steak tartare?

How safe is steak tartare? 

What can I do when preparing it make sure it is safe to eat?

Q: The secret to hash browns / home fries / breakfast potatoes

I have never been successful in making pan-fried potatoes àla the American diner.
It seems like such a simple concept, but they never turn out right! Usually undercooked & oily, with some parts getting burned...

Ideally, I'd like to produce potatoes that are crispy and golden brown on the outside, fully cooked and soft on the inside, and not excessively oily. What are the important factors to ensure this?

Some variables I've considered:

- Type of Potato

- Shape of cut (grated, thinly sliced, cubed, etc.)

- Cooking technique (parboil first, or straight in the pan? How much oil, what temp, etc.)

- Type of oil

I have yet to find a combination of values for these variables that produces proper hash browns... What are your guidelines for making breakfast potatoes? Which of the above variables are important? Are there any other keys that I am missing?
It seems so simple when diners do it; I can't figure out where I am going wrong...

Edit: I was afraid this would happen... terminology clarification: apparently I'm looking more for "home fries" or something to that effect. I do not want a solid potato pancake àla McDonald's hash brown; I am looking for pan fried potatoes; the pieces should be seperate (although they may stick together a bit in places). Some pictures I've found that seem to be more in line with my thoughts:

  

NOT:

Q: Why are baking measurements such nice round numbers?

I've heard over and over that when it comes to baking, measurements cannot be ignored, and you need to be very precise. This question covers how precise a measurement of flour should be, for example. But if getting your baking just right requires being so painstaking in measuring ingredients, how is it possible that all of the amounts in recipes come out to such neat and easy numbers? I can't remember if I've ever seen a flour measurement go more specific than the nearest 1/4 cup. The smaller chemicals like baking powders are usually to the half tsp, that I've seen, but I can imagine they go down to 1/4 or 1/8. And eggs basically always come in ones, or one yolk, but there's not much you can do about that. Weight measurements are more specific of course, but have you ever seen a ratio like 4.2683 oz of flour per egg?

How accurate is this really? Does this mean if your flour measurement is off by 1/16th cup you'll be just fine? Or it just won't look the same as the one made by the person who invented the recipe? I have a hard time believing that with such complex chemistry involved, the optimal quantities are so close to large fractions of our units of measure. Is there actually a bit more fudge room with some ingredients than we're being told?

Also, if so, which ingredients are more forgiving? I'd guess that baking powders are among the least.

Q: What should I cover bread dough with while it's rising?

If you let (bread) dough rise, the recipe always asks to cover it. Years ago, I read to cover it with a wet towel. Nowadays, I see more and more recipes that ask for plastic wrap (aka saran or cling wrap).

The towel lets air through, the wrap does not. What is the difference between the two in the end result? What is best to use and why?

I'm talking about the first as well as the second (proofing) rise. If there is a difference between the phases, please inform me.

Q: What is the temperature range for food not to burn your mouth?

I'm trying to get a temperature range for knowing when food is too hot to eat.  Most of what I am finding is temperature ranges for food to kill bacteria instead.

For example, if I'm serving a hot drink or a soup/stew which was recently simmering or boiling, what temperature should I let it cool to before serving?

Q: What is a clove of garlic?

If a recipe calls for 8 whole cloves of garlic, does it mean 8 whole garlics? Or does it mean 8 of the wedges?

Q: Does chilli get milder with cooking?

I have made a tomato, onion and cannelini bean curry.  I put a lot of chilli spice in it, perhaps too much.  If I keep simmering it, will it get milder?  I'm hoping it will cook into the (bland) beans.

Q: Can I use cooking sherry instead of red wine in my stew?

So I found some Sherry Cooking Wine ($6 CAD) at my supermarket and I don't want to go and shell out too much money on a real bottle of wine just for a stew, is it possible to use cooking wine like Sherry Cooking Wine as the base of the stew? 

If it matters, the meat will probably be lamb or beef.

The cooking wine in question:

Q: Is it safe to drink grain alcohol mixed with snake blood?

I was in Vietnam recently and I took a shot of grain alcohol mixed with blood from a freshly killed cobra.

That was close to a month ago and I didn't die or get sick, but I'm wondering how dangerous this was.  The cobra was definitely of the venomous sort.  What are the risks posed here?

A: Probably not.

Carrots naturally (or due to selective breeding) come in an extremely wide variety of colors from white to yellow to orange to red/pink to purple. It's likely that you were simply looking at two different varieties, one of which was more pale than the other.

click image for source

Even the color being only "skin deep" isn't necessarily a sign of it being a dye as many carrots have white cores, or at least cores that are more white than their surrounding flesh. Which you can see an example of below:

A: Bolognese is (to Italians) a specific dish with a precise ingredient list. You wouldn't put garlic in a chocolate cake, but that's because it probably wouldn't taste nice. Imagine a chocolate cake to which you added coffee. Some people might enjoy the cake, some might not, but assuming it was a cake and had plenty of cocoa and/or chocolate, nobody would say it wasn't a chocolate cake. Now imagine you made a Tarte Tatin but you used pineapples instead of apples and you added chocolate, too. Some people might say "this isn't really a Tarte Tatin" because you're not following the traditional recipe for that pie. That's how they are feeling about the Bolognese sauce.

I expect that to you "Bolognese" means a vague category of tomato-and-meat sauce for putting on pasta, and you figure you can put in whatever you like as long as you like it. The Italians aren't complaining because garlic ruins the taste, but because when the sauce has garlic in it, it's not really a Bolognese any more, just as a Tarte Tatin with chocolate and pineapple isn't really a Tarte Tatin any more.

So the literal answer to your question is: garlic and onions do not belong in any dish that has a capital letters name and a generally accepted traditional recipe for that dish, where that traditional recipe doesn't include garlic or onions. If the dish doesn't have that kind of name (eg beef stew, grilled steak, roast chicken) then you're free to put in anything you like. It's not a matter of "not needed" or not, but of following a particular recipe or not.

As for the Bolognese with garlic, you could call it precisely that. Or "tomato and meat sauce with garlic." I bet it was yummy.

A: It's a zester, for getting zest off of citrus fruit.

The photo from that Wikipedia article shows it in use:

A: It's a steamer basket.

If you pull the leaves apart it will look like this:

Then you put it into a saucepan like this:

You put water into the saucepan (the legs at the bottom keep the bottom of the basket clear of the water). Then you can use it for steaming vegetables, dumplings, etc. You put a lid onto the saucepan to keep the steam in.

A: The effect will be different for a few reasons.

- 

When you add spices to hot oil, they cook at a considerably higher temperature (up to around 200&deg;C) than in a simmering sauce (100&deg;C as it's likely to be mostly water).  Important cooking chemistry happens at this higher temperature, so the flavour is actually changed (just as with onions and garlic).  

- 

Whole or coarse spices sometimes pop and break up (I often add whole or lightly crushed cumin seeds to hot oil and fry,  but if you add them after adding watery liquids they get stuck in your teeth).  This can be mitigated by using finely crushed/ground spices.

- 

Even if the oil is cold, many major flavour compounds are much more soluble in oil than water, capsaicin being a significant example.  The flavour extraction will be affected.  Taking chilli flakes as an example, you can add them later, even at the table, but the heat will be concentrated in the flakes; adding them at the beginning of cooking allows the flavour to infuse the whole dish.  Again finer spices can help here by dispersing in the sauce.

On the other hand it's perfectly sensible to add black pepper to a simmering sauce, to taste.  Turmeric is also often added towards the end of cooking as too much cooking removes some of the best elements of the flavour.  Paprika is also sometimes added late (or even to the oil and at the end).

Bearing this in mind, experimenting is a good thing.  If you put a baseline level of spice in the oil, you can get away with topping up the flavour, with a little care.

A: It's not honey that's changed since ancient times, it's wine! Wine makers in ancient Rome lacked the knowledge and equipment to prevent oxidation and unwanted bacterial colonies, so their product was pretty awful by modern standards, being both sour and bitter with all sorts of off flavors. Honey and spices were added to try and make it palatable. 

So you can't re-create the roman recipe without roman style wine, which you won't find in any store because nobody would want to buy it! If you add the same amount of honey to wine of today it will be overwhelmingly sweet, my suggestion would be to add a little bit of honey to it and work your way up. I would also suggest you not follow the recipe to the letter:

- Don't let it sit like the recipe suggests, add the spices in and let it steep, then strain and add more wine

- Don't filter it through charcoal: the reason they did that was because wine makers added all sorts of awful stuff to preserve the wine, modern wines don't have those issues. If it has particulates try using a coffee filter instead.

A: Fried Eggs:

Sunny Side Up -- Not flipped, unbroken yolk. The top of the egg is just barely set.

Basted -- Sunny Side Up, hot fat spooned over until the white surrounding the yolk is opaque.

Over Easy / lite -- Flipped,  whites  fully cooked, unbroken yolk, yolk runny.

Over medium -- flipped, whites fully cooked, unbroken yolk, yolk creamy (not completely runny).

Over Medium Well -- Flipped, unbroken yolk, yolk cooked to have a firm but wet-appearing center.

Over Hard -- Flipped, broken, fully-cooked yolk.

Over Well -- Flipped, intact, fully-cooked yolk.

Broken / Lightly Scrambled -- Broken in pan and gently stirred while cooking - yolk and whites should not be mixed entirely.

Scrambled Eggs -- Made in many different ways. Generally the eggs are mixed in a bowl before being put into the pan, and often stirred while cooking. Some recipes add fat to the eggs in the form of milk, cream, butter, or oil. A distinction can be made between Wet/Loose or Dry, which refers to the degree of doneness.

Omelettes:

Filled Omelette -- Eggs mixed before cooking, possibly with added fat as in Scrambled Eggs. Cooked in fat in a saute pan; when set but the interior still wet, previously-cooked fillings (cheese, onions, mushrooms, peppers, tomatoes...) are added, and the eggs folded over into a half-moon shape.

Spanish Omelette / Western Omelette -- Same as filled, but the egg mixture is poured over the fillings in a hot pan and cooked, thus incorporating the fillings into the egg.

Fluffy Omelette -- Whites and yolks beaten separately. Yolks are gently folded into the whites without breaking the structure of the whites. Optional toppings are added. Cooked slowly in a pan, or baked (an electric frying pan with a lid works well for this preparation).

French Omelette -- Cooked soft & creamy with no color on the egg. Omelette is folded 1/3 in the pan, knocked to the edge so it can be rolled out onto the plate. It ends up being folded into thirds and is very creamy and soft.

Boiled:

Cooked in shell in water for a timed period. Some people will refer to degree of doneness by cooking time, i.e., a "3-minute egg" is soft-boiled with some runny white around the yolk. Some recipes call for eggs to be added to boiling water, others to be started in cold water. In the cold-water start, the pot may be left on the heat or removed when the water reaches a boil. The eggs may be shocked in ice water when removed.

Soft -- Yolk runny, potentially with slight unset white around the yolk.

Medium -- White completely set, yolk firm but with a dark, wet appearance.

Hard -- Yolk completely set and pale yellow.

Poached:

Egg cooked, out of shell, in water, stock, or other liquid --  excluding fats or oils -- at a temperature in the range of 160-180˚F (70-82˚C). There are possible degrees of doneness, however the typical poached egg has a runny but warm and thickened yolk and fully-set white.

Coddled:

An egg that has been very lightly cooked (poached eggs are sometimes considered coddled). This can either be accomplished with an egg coddler or cooking an egg in its shell with water that is slightly below boiling point.

Shirred:

An egg cooked in an oven at the low-mid 300's˚F (~160˚C), contained in a ramekin, until the whites are just set and the yolk is runny but thickened. Often butter or another fat is placed on top before cooking.

Steamed:

Very similar to shirred eggs, but the ramekin is covered with some aluminum foil and put in a steamer for 7-15 minutes.

In a basket:
Eggs fried in a hole made in a slice of bread

deep fried
Moo shu- using a strainer to drop small drops of egg into hot oil in a wok and stir. Frying in vegetables and/optionally meat or another protein then consume on mandarin pancakes with your choice of sauce.

A: Each "wedge" is a clove.  The entire garlic is called a "head".

A: The magnets themselves don't dull them; they're not nearly strong enough to deform a blade.

But it is possible to damage your knives on those racks. It's very easy to drag the blade along the rack a bit as you pull it off, and easy for the magnet to snap it against the rack as you put it on.

Both are avoidable, though. When removing the knife, you twist it so that the sharp side leaves the magnet first. When putting it on the rack, you let the blunt side touch first, so when it snaps the rest of the way on, it's only the flat side against the rack, never the blade.

It also helps to get a version that's not just bare metal; there are plenty with the magnet underneath wood. It might not be ideal if you let the blade drag along it a lot, just as you probably don't want to drag it along your cutting board, but it's a lot better than metal. Also, since the knife isn't directly against the magnet, the force doesn't increase as sharply as you get to the rack, so there's less snap.

So, if you're worried that you (or guests in your kitchen) may not always be too careful, a bare metal magnetic knife rack is definitely not a good idea. But unless you're really protective of your knives, the wooden kind is probably fine.

Folks have also pointed out that in principle, long-term use of a magnetic rack could magnetize the blade, causing it to pick up tiny bits of metal, especially during sharpening, which would then wear and dull the blade. As far as I know, this is not a big deal: I've seen knives stored long-term on magnetic blocks without noticeable magnetization. You could always keep an eye out and demagnetize the blade if necessary.

A: "Cooking wine" is unfortunately ubiquitous on US mega-mart shelves. It is notoriously bad. I mean really, really notoriously bad. It starts bad, and then they add obscene amounts of salt so that it can be sold on grocery store shelves for $6.  As pointed out by @Malvolio, "salted wine is supposed to be disgusting! Many US states have special licensing requirements for any store that wants to sell alcohol, even wine and beer, but wine that is so heavily salted it cannot reasonably be consumed directly is exempt." The salt literally makes it undrinkable, so underage and other sales that would otherwise be illegal aren't an issue. The added salt also ups the shelf life, but not nearly enough to justify the sensory assault of these stunningly awful "wines". Canadian "cooking wine" is the same thing, just with different levels of salt just like the 50 states.

(these are just examples, all "cooking wine" brands on US grocery store shelves are the same level of truly insulting):

Skip the cooking wine. Go to a liquor store and look at the inexpensive bottles of wine. You might be surprised - bargains abound.

Incidentally, if you don't generally love to drink wine but occasionally like to cook with it, you might try what I do. I keep a bottle of inexpensive but good dry sherry and another bottle of inexpensive but good dry vermouth tightly capped in the fridge. Those wines, along with marsala, port, and others are fortified with liquor, giving them a much longer refrigerated-after-open shelf life than normal wine. Fortified wine can often replace the wine in recipes, at an equal or slightly reduced volume of the non-fortified wine called for. Sherry is often actually called for in Chinese and other Asian recipes, and dry vermouth can generally sub for "dry white wine" in recipes. 

Cook's Illustrated says: 

  

Our recipes often call for dry white wine. Its crisp acidity and lightly fruity flavor add depth to everything from pan sauces and pasta to risotto and steamed mussels. The problem? Standard wine bottles are 750 milliliters, and our recipes rarely call for more than 1 cup (roughly 235 milliliters) of wine. That leaves us with most of a bottle to finish in a matter of days. Dry vermouth, which can be substituted for white wine in equal amounts in recipes, is a convenient alternative. Like Marsala and sherry, vermouth is wine that’s been fortified with a high-proof alcohol (often brandy), which raises its alcohol content and allows to it be stored in the refrigerator for weeks or even months after opening. 

I buy the dry vermouth recommended as the best buy by those same folks at Cook's Illustrated/America's Test Kitchen, which sells for $6-$8 in the liquor store that connects to the grocery store (barely more expensive than the hideous salt bomb on the grocery store shelf).

One of the Sherries recommended by the Cook's Illustrated taste test clocked in at under $6:

A: I'm rather surprised by the judgmental tone in some of the answers here.  A well-done steak is a culinary preference; just because you don't share that preference is no reason to be rude about it.  Some people like caviar; others don't, despite the fact that it is expensive and lauded by many "people in the know."  Some people appreciate an espresso made lovingly with freshly ground coffee in the "right" kind of grinder; others find it too strong or bitter and would prefer an "American style" of coffee with cream and sugar. Taste is subjective.

I'll admit something personal -- for the first quarter-century or so of my life, I only ate well-done or medium-well steak.  It's how my father always cooked it at home on the grill.  He didn't actually prefer steak well-done: when we'd go out to the restaurants, he'd generally order medium-rare.  But even though he'd time steaks, adjust heat on the grill, etc., the vast majority of the time, they were well-done.  I was used to it.  I liked it, because it was what I knew.  The few times I encountered less-done meat, I found the texture odd or even slightly off-putting.

Then, at some point, I was convinced to try more rare steak, and I soon accepted it.  I now almost always order steaks medium-rare, and I do prefer them that way.  But I also spent a lot of time ordering steaks more well-done (at restaurants, I'd almost always order medium-well), and to those of you who claim you can't tell the difference when a steak is that done, you don't know what you're talking about, because it's not your common way of eating and perhaps you've never had a well-done steak that was prepared in a reasonable fashion.

Anyhow, to answer the question: as some others have hinted at, choose a cut that has a "looser" texture with fat running through it if possible.  Also, consider using a cut that you'd often tend to slice thinly when serving anyway, like skirt, flank, bavette, etc.  You can also use more expensive somewhat fatty cuts (like ribeye), though the meat will toughen, so you won't get the benefit of the tenderness in such expensive cuts.  Plus some of the cheaper cuts (or at least less expensive) have superior flavor.  

Quality is actually more important in cooking well-done steaks, because older or worse quality meat with more connective tissue will become even chewier and tough when cooked longer. A somewhat high-quality ribeye cooked well-done can be a somewhat chewy but very pleasant caramelized experience with melt-in-your-mouth browned crispy fat interspersed.  A poor-quality steak with poor-quality fat will just become tough and have its bad qualities exaggerated.

What you want to avoid -- unless your guests insist on them -- are lean cuts, which will end up tough AND dry.  Filet mignon is a very poor choice (which will end up tasteless and tough), as is sirloin, as would be other lean tough cuts (like round).  Also avoid cuts with a lot of connective tissue (but sometimes are sold as steaks to be cooked fast and rare), like chuck.

Marinating will help if you allow enough time for brine to soak in a bit (thereby adding not only flavor, but more moisture).

As for cooking, keep in mind many types of meat are cooked to "well-done" temperatures and still can remain juicy with proper technique (e.g., chicken).  There's absolutely no reason to serve a tough, dry well-done steak unless you're incompetent.  A "loose" textured steak as mentioned above that's sliced thin before serving will be chewy but won't necessarily seem "tough" if marinated and cooked properly.

How to cook properly?  Do NOT do what most people do when cooking steak and just flip once.  You'll end up drying out both sides of the steak by the time cooking is finished.  Butterflying (which restaurants will sometimes offer to do for you when you request a medium-well or well-done steak) can be counterproductive for some cuts and can also dry things out more.  (Restaurants do it mostly for their own convenience; it speeds cooking.)  Unless you have a very loose-textured steak, which might benefit from additional browning reactions with greater surface area while not getting tough, you probably don't want to decrease thickness deliberately.  Instead, keep moisture in with a somewhat thicker cut.

And flip often during cooking.  It's more work because cooking to well-done takes longer, but it's the best way to keep juices moving around inside rather than boiling out the top while the bottom gets dry and burnt.  (Think of what a rotisserie does; you're doing the same by flipping steak often.)  Flipping frequently also can help soften fat and begin to break it down, which can add flavor and a "moist" aspect (if done right with high-quality meat, the fat might even be almost "melt-in-your-mouth").  Frequent flipping also aids in more browning reactions, which develop more flavor, and well-done steak does at least get that advantage of extra browning flavor (perhaps even crisped brown outer layers of fat).  Obviously control heat; overall you'll need to cook at a slightly lower heat to avoid burning the outside before interior is well-done.

Then pull steak off while slightly less than well-done, and let it rest to creep up to well-done.

To summarize:

- Loose or well-marbled cut, cheapest are those you'd generally slice even if serving rare

- Marinate for at least a few hours; salt will help with moisture, acid can help at least keep the outer layer less tough

- Relatively high-heat sear on both sides

- Then move to lower heat, and flip frequently

- Check internal temperature with an instant-read thermometer to pull it off precisely as the pink is about to go away in middle (this may take some practice to find the right temp based on your cooking technique, how thick the steaks are, etc.)

- Let rest to "coast" to well-done

I've accidentally overcooked skirt steak this way a couple times, and it was just as tasty (if not more so), basically as juicy, and almost as tender as if I cooked it to medium rare.  (Skirt is always chewy anyway; well-done steaks will always be chewy, but they don't have to be excessively tough.)

Cooking steak to medium-rare and getting passable results is relatively easy with a thermometer.  Cooking a decent well-done steak takes a lot more skill.

EDIT: A couple comments have noted that there are better ways to cook steaks.  I absolutely agree.  The OP didn't ask about preparation technique, so I was assuming a somewhat "standard" cooking technique for steaks (grilling, pan-frying, broiling, etc.), which my advice applies to.  Personally, I'd recommend things like reverse searing or finishing in the oven, etc. too for better results, but I wasn't trying to turn this answer into "how to cook a steak" in general.

A: I don’t know if it has an official name, but it’s a spaghetti tool. The holes are for measuring portions and the tines are for stirring in the boiling water and for serving after it’s strained.

A: Found in this wiki  article , is the following information:

  "Fancy" ketchup
  
  

Some ketchup in the U.S. is labeled "Fancy". This is a USDA grade, relating to specific gravity. Fancy ketchup has a higher tomato solid concentration than other USDA grades.
  
  USDA Ketchup Grades

Hope this helps!  :)

A: Poorly. Pasta doesn't absorb all that much flavor from spices in the water, other than maybe salt (and even then you must add excessive amounts of salt to make the resulting pasta evidently salty.) Add spices to whatever sauce you pour on the pasta, otherwise you're wasting like 90% of them. 

An alternative would be kneading the spices into the pasta dough. There are several pasta brands with spices/herbs in the dough like that.

A: In general, it is a good idea to go light on spices when trying a new recipe, if you're not intimately familiar with the flavor and spice combinations in question.  It's a great deal easier to add spice later than it is to mask it once you've added too much.

Assuming you are reading this because you didn't do that, and have now ended up with a sauce that's far too spicy, then read on.

The pertinent question here is where is the spiciness coming from?  There are actually several kinds of compounds that can produce that general aroma and/or sensation.  In most dishes they'll tend to fall loosely into one or more of the following:

- 

Piperine, which is the active alkaloid in black pepper.  This has poor solubility in water, however, it has better solubility in alcohol.  If you can incorporate wine or better yet, brandy or vodka or some other strong alcohol, this can go a long way toward reducing the heat from pepper.

- 

Capsaicin, the heat-producing compound in most types of hot peppers, is the highest on the Scoville Scale; extremely piquant and can produce a "burning" sensation in very small quantities.  It is also poorly soluble in water, but is far more soluble in fat, especially oils.  Adding some olive oil or a good quantity of butter to your recipe is a good bet for reducing capsaicin/capsicum heat.

- 

Garlic, onion, and other members of the Allium family put out a volatile sulfur compound called Allicin.  Although this is not "spicy" in the same sense as pepper, many people perceive it as such.  Like piperine, it is more soluble in alcohol than in water.  However, and here's the catch: That allicin breaks down into various polysulfides when cooked, and those polysulfides are fat soluble.  So if you're trying to mask a strong garlic or onion flavour, it's best if you can add alcohol and fat to cover all your bases.

- 

If you've added too much Ginger - another ingredient often perceived as spicy - then you're dealing with Gingerols and Shoagols, the latter of which pack a much bigger punch.  One of the things you can actually do with ginger is cook the spice off which converts those into much milder Zingerone.  In other words, add some water to the sauce and then boil it to reduce the sauce again - you'll lose some flavour but in the process you'll break down the ginger spice.

Alternatively (for ginger), all of the above compounds are alkali soluble, so if you add a buffering agent - say, Trisodium citrate (additive E331), it will improve the solubility a great deal.  If, like most people, you don't happen to keep food additives in your kitchen, you can try using something like baking soda, but too much of that will completely ruin the taste, so be careful.  In fact, don't add too much of any buffer because the acidity of most sauces is an integral part of their flavor.

I think that about covers it for common "spicy stuff" that goes in sauces.  If you want to fix a dish that's too spicy, you need to know where the spice is coming from and choose what's most appropriate for that particular sauce.

You can also try to mask or balance the spice with something sweet, for example roasted vegetables or plain old sugar.  That will not eliminate the heat at all, but does seem to make it more tolerable for many.

A: There's no reason to peel besides the aesthetics of it. There's no major flavor or nutritional difference either way. If the ginger is going to be seen then peel it, if not don't bother. 

The best way to peel ginger is to use the edge of a small spoon to rub it off, it works really well, takes seconds, and doesn't waste as much as using a knife or peeler.

A: I suspect it means "ditto (the above line)":
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ditto_mark seems to indicate that "do." was an old way of abbreviating before the ditto mark (") became widespread.

A: Actually you're all wrong. The twin myths that we must use a rolling boil and abundant water have been rather soundly disproved. Most recently by J. Kenji Lopez-Alt over at seriouseats, an MIT graduate who later became a chef. 

http://www.seriouseats.com/2010/05/how-to-cook-pasta-salt-water-boiling-tips-the-food-lab.html

is the article in question. I have used his method at home with great success. Have not yet been brave enough to try it at work, as chef doesn't much like it when that sort of dogma gets challenged. But that's all it is, dogma.

A: - 

Espresso: This is a finely ground very dark roast coffee, packed somewhat tightly in a special metal filter, with water "expressed" through it under pressure.  A very strong dark coffee, typically served in 1-2 ounce portions. Very commonly incorrectly called "Expresso."

- 

Americano:  Italians typically don't drink American Strength coffee.  They drink espresso in tiny cups.  Then the tourists came and wanted a mug of coffee like they get at home.  The Italian solution was to make an espresso and keep the water running through the grounds to weaken the coffee, and make the desired quantity. (edit: Some locations may simply add hot water to the espresso in the cup. This doesn't change the basic concept.)  An Americano is simply an espresso that has been drawn out with extra water to an American strength beverage -- Not to be confused with the typical brewed coffee, which is usually filtered. 

- 

Caffe au Lait: This is strong filtered or brewed coffee (not espresso), with warmed milk. This is probably the easiest specialty coffee to make at home.  Just scald some milk in a pot and pour it over strongly brewed coffee.

- 

Cappuccino:  A 1:1:1 ratio of espresso, steamed milk, and milk foam.  Typically the milk is steamed through a special high pressure steam pipe on the espresso machine. This serves two functions.  To warm up the milk and to create a stiff foam on the top.  When pouring, the foam is held back with a spoon, and then scooped out on top.  I'll arbitrarily define the cappuccino as the base beverage for all that follow.

- 

Macchiato: Typically in North America, this is a cappuccino, but with the steamed milk component missing.  That is, it is espresso and frothed milk foam only.  Also called a "Dry" Cappuccino. Macchiato has different meanings elsewhere.

- 

Latte: A "wet" cappuccino.  Hold back the foam with a spoon, and pour the warm milk over the espresso.  Put a little bit of foam on top for decoration only.

- 

Mocha: Any one of the above espresso + milk drinks with chocolate added.  Some places will add hot chocolate to the drink, others will add a chocolate syrup.  A mocha latte is the common preparation.  Not to be confused with Mocha beans, which are an Ethiopian coffee bean which has a little bit of a naturally occurring chocolate flavour.

- 

Misto: A Starbucks synonym for a Cafe au Lait.

A: I am surprised no one has mentioned this wonderful graphic (Credit: Espresso Field Guide by the aptly named Jay Mug ):

A: You do not need to make a roux. While your proposed technique of adding flour directly to milk will almost certainly lead to clumps, there are other ways to incorporate flour, butter, and milk: namely, a beurre manié.

First, let's explore why flour clumps in hot liquid. As explained in this Seattle Times cooking advice column, flour will immediately gelatinize when added -- forming a sort of gel-like barrier that encases clumps of flour. No amount of stirring will break up these clumps. A simple fix is to use Wondra or a similar product. This flour is specially formulated to avoid clumping; I am not familiar with the details of their process, but I know that the product can be directly whisked into a sauce without clumping. It is fairly popular in America for making gravies.

But, with standard flour, the best fix is to work in fat: it works as a lubricant, keeping particles of flour separated for long enough to incorporate into the sauce. As you know, one method to accomplish this is to make a roux: flour is added to hot fat and stirred until incorporated. Only then is liquid slowly added. An alternative is to make a beurre manié: a mix of cold butter and flour that is added, uncooked, to the sauce.

Both a roux and a beurre manié provide sufficient lubrication to prevent clumps; however, many chefs prefer roux for a variety of reasons.

- 

Making a roux requires less mechanical action. Working cold flour and butter requires a lot of stirring or kneading. A roux, on the other hand, can be quickly whisked together with less resistance. This is ultimately a personal preferences: you may find one or the other workflow easier.

- 

Some people think a beurre manié tastes "floury". The hot butter in a roux lets you "cook out" the floury taste, some say. Not everyone agrees: this cook tried both methods, and in a taste test, saw no discernible difference. If a sauce thickened with beurre manié tastes good to you, go for it.

- 

In the same vein, a roux lets you toast the flour. Dishes that use "dark roux" (like gumbos, etouffée, or Japanese curry) rely on this toasty flavor for depth, color, and balance. In this case, you cannot substitute a beurre manié without losing flavor.

The beurre manié has a bit of a bad reputation as a "shortcut" or inferior option to the roux. But, if you are struggling with roux, or just want to try a different process, I encourage you to give it a shot. If you do get some clumps, you can always just strain the sauce through a fine sieve.

A: It was timing.  If you want to make chocolate meringues, add the cocoa powder to the liquid egg whites, and then whisk it all together at once.  

Beaten egg whites are bubbles.  Don't add things to an already-formed meringue, as they will just cause the bubble structure to collapse.

Ever sprinkled sugar or cinnamon powder on a cappuccino?  Notice how the milk foam immediately collapses?  The same thing happened to your meringue.

A: It's a double bubble shot glass designed for a shot (on top) and the chaser of your choice on the bottom.  It is just a novelty and fancy way of presenting special drinks.  

Here's a video showing how it's used.

A: You'll sometimes hear television cooking show hosts describe what they're doing as "cooking out" the paste. What they're actually doing is altering the flavor of the chili itself, not manipulating the level of capsaicin that was introduced. If you take a typical chili paste which has been combined with garlic and other things and then saute it in a fat, you will lower the level of heat that's tasted (and possibly take some bitterness out, depending on the chili and what's in the paste), but not lower the level that's actually ingested.

If you literally want to cook it out, put some sliced chili with nothing else in a searing hot pan, but make sure no one else is home or going to be home for a while, and wear a respirator. The capsaicin has nowhere to go and vaporizes as it burns (seriously, don't do that, if you did that in my kitchen I'd throw a live crab at you).

Various kinds of fat bond well with the capsaicin, essentially creating a sort of encasement. To demonstrate how this works, grab some sriracha and some cream. Mix in about half a tablespoon of sriracha to about 300 ml of cream, taste it. Now, simmer the cream a bit (about 3 - 5 minutes), take it off the heat, let it rest a few minutes and taste it again. The level of sriracha didn't change, what happened is the cream got its hands on the capsaicin that it contained. It'll continue to get milder the longer it sits. That's why a glass of milk can rescue you from atomic hot wings and why water just broadens the pain as it makes sure your whole palate gets a chance to taste it :) Beer just makes you care less about it.

Now, sugar has the remarkable quality of helping to hide heat with its mighty right of first refusal when it comes to your palate. The heat from the chili shows up and your palate says "what? I'm too busy with this sweet, I can only listen to a little of you". To see how that works, repeat the experiment again, but this time throw a teaspoon or so of confectioner's (or castor) sugar into the cream with the sriracha, along with an additional squirt or two (around 10 ml) of sriracha. That's why coconut milk works so perfectly in a curry. 

The best bet for your recipe is finding a way to get some kind of fat into it. That could be coconut milk, fatty bacon, or whatever makes sense based on how you want to serve it. Then, optionally, sweeten it up a bit (also remember that citrus helps offset sweet, handy to keep that in mind when you're 'fixing' a dish) - some raisins sound like they'd work rather well with what you're doing. Maybe go with coconut milk and raisins, and thin it out with a bit of chicken stock if needed? 

I really try to encourage people to take an hour and just experiment with ways you can alter and sort of control chili, because it is a lovely thing to cook with. Just remember, whatever you put in the pan initially ends up being eaten, you're just hiding a bit of that as you cook.

A: I found the answer with a good illustration (from https://www.925-1000.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=41243):

The idea is that when you have a large piece of meat (such as a large prime rib or so), it's difficult to balance the meat to be able to cut it vertically. Instead, you cut it horizontally from the right with your carving knife (assuming you are right-handed).

To keep the meat from slipping away, you stick the fork in from the left, using your left hand. That puts the fork (and your left hand holding the fork) directly into the path of the knife when it exits the roast. The sudden lack of resistance could cause the knife to "jump" towards your hand.

With this guard, the knife hits the guard rather than the hand.

A: The restaurants may be adding asafoetida, a ground root product that adds a savory, onion-y flavor to food. It's very concentrated stuff and smells awful, but once you cook it for awhile it's absolute magic.

A: Firstly, let me disagree and say that I have tasted some (amazing) pistachio ice creams that tasted very much like the actual nuts. That said, I can think of several reasons why the ice cream might taste differently from the nuts:

- Artificial flavours, like you suggest. You might be able to figure out from the ingredients list if these are used.

- Salt. If you have only eaten salted pistachio nuts, you might have a different benchmark for pistachio flavour. Salt is a flavour enhancer, after all.

- Temperature. The temperature of food and drinks radically changes how it is perceived when tasting. This is why (bad) coffee is OK when hot, but terrible when at room temperature, and why melted ice cream tastes much sweeter than the frozen stuff.

A final side note, which I include mostly because I find it interesting: I used to think 'banana flavour' was based on a different type of banana than commonly found in stores. Doing some searching for this question, it turns out I was wrong.

A: It doesn't go bad, but it does change the taste.

When water is just sitting there, water evaporates, but most things dissolved in it don't. Then, each time you boil it, the steam causes additional water to escape leaving the same amount of dissolved stuff in there. So, the concentration of dissolved stuff keeps going up.

Dissolved oxygen also decreases when you heat or boil water, changing the taste.

Finally, even if your kettle is stainless steel, it can eventually rust.

A: Double yolking tends to happen more often in spring and with young or very old birds.  As commercial egg producers do not tend to let their birds get old, unless you are getting farm eggs, they are likely young birds.

Automatic candles may be set up to separate these as suspect so they had to be re-run to verify they were not bad, which will result in them being grouped.

When I raised birds, it seemed like brown egg varieties have this occur more often than white eggs, but that is just my experience.  Some people actually try to breed for this and it is more common in some birds.  It also makes young birds a bit more profitable as the eggs are large than they would normally be for new layers.  There are considerable downsides as well for the birds though.  The eggs are not viable, almost always if incubated the egg will fail as if both are fertile, the egg cannot support twins, and one failing in the shell will lead to the demise of the other.  Also, the eggs are larger, so a young bird is laying eggs larger than it is physically ready to lay, and for an old bird the eggs can become monstrous.  This causes a much higher mortality rate in birds.

I have very seldom had double yolks in commercial eggs, but there seems to be something in the water this year.  Just last week I had a dozen also that 10 of the 12 were double.  Just my luck, I was trying to make angel food cake and did not want them.  lol

A: It's actually the opposite, you shouldn't boil water for tea unless you want it boiling. Water has dissolved oxygen in it, the more you have the nicer your tea will taste. This has been covered in this question. 

The hotter your water gets, the faster it loses dissolved oxygen, so you'll get better tea (for most people's palates) if you raise your water to 80°C and use it right away. If you boil it and then let it cool you will lose much more O2. 

FYI, 80°C is pretty low for most black teas, I experimented with this some years ago and found that most black teas brewed at 80°C came out pretty awful, green tea seemed to be the exception to this. I found 90&ndash;95°C to be more of the sweet spot.

Other than boiling to kill pathogens the one thing I can think of would be to purge chlorine from the water, which boiling does. However, you'd need to boil it for 15 minutes to get rid of all of it, not just raise it to boiling. Also, boiling doesn't get rid of chlorinates, which are used to purify water more often these days. See this question for more details on that.

A: You are absolutely right, it's not binary at all. Bacterial growth doesn't magically accelerate at 40°F, the difference in growth rate between 39.9°F and 40.1°F is extremely small. I'm going to switch to C now as that's the metric system and it's going to get science-y. 40°F is 4.5°C.

This is the e-coli bacteria growth curve by temperature.

Source: Effect of salt and temperature on the growth of Escherichia coli PSII

I couldn't find a less complex image that was public domain, just ignore all the dots as the curve is the point. You can see that at 4°C the growth rate is extremely slow, and at 10°C it's somewhat faster but still pretty slow, but then as the temperature rises the growth rate goes up significantly until it tops out at about 38°C before swiftly falling as it gets above 40°C.

Say your house is 20°C, and you leave food out at that temperature for 2 hours. Is it safe? Maybe, but it depends on a lot of factors, like the bacterial load in the food before it was warmed to that temperature. Remember, foods aren't always starting from zero. If you have a bit of e-coli in the food already then you could end up with a substantial amount, maybe enough to make someone sick.

Listeria, botulism, staph and all those other wonderful little organisms which people get sick from have their own curves which are roughly similar in that they all have a happy zone, die at high temperatures and replicate very slowly below 5°C.

Can you use a scientific approach and these curves to know when food is safe? No, unless you have a laboratory and know the microbial starting point of these foods, as well as calculate the effects of salt, sugar and other ingredients that can increase or decrease growth rates, for each foodborne illness microbe. Even then all you have is a replication rate, you'd then have to factor human resistance to foodborne pathogens, which varies significantly from person to person, and that an individual's ability to tolerate a pathogen varies significantly depending on the state of their immune system.

You can use the data to make risk based decisions, i.e. leaving food out at 10°C is much less likely to make you sick than leaving it out at 30°C, but there's still no guarantees.

The FDA's recommendation is so cut and dried in order to keep it simple. Not everyone has the education, inclination or the time to figure this out.  When you consider that the difference between 20 and 25°C nearly doubles the growth rate of e-coli the risks of making the wrong calculations can lead to serious consequences, and that there are at least another 12 foodborne illnesses to factor into your calculations it makes much more sense.

A: This appears to be watercore, specifically radial watercore, from the image you have posted.  It should be safe to eat, according to this site and this site.

According to an article from Washington State University, watercore is a disorder of some apple variants, which can cause the internal flesh to appear glassy [shiny and translucent] later into the growing season.  In some studies, low levels of calcium have been shown alongside the condition.  As well, it should be noted that the condition 1) does not occur after harvesting 2) may cause an increase of sweetness, and 3) cause the apple to quickly degrade during storage.

As to the causes of this disorder, there are a number of theoretical factors for causation:  Genetic defects, water regiment, temperature, minerals, leaf-to-fruit ratio, maturation and ripening, sorbitol metabolism and altered transport.  These are discussed to some degree in both the WSU article and this MSU article

A: Yes - the mold is an indication that the spores have entered that tomato, but do not indicate any problems with others. Mold usually enters fruits like tomato through the stem site or damage to the skin. The bits you see outside the fruit are actually the fruiting bodies of the fungus (equivalent of the bit you eat on a mushroom - the rest is below the soil). These fruiting bodies produce tons of spores. You should use the others fairly quickly before any released spores have a chance to potentially start growing in them.

Edited to add:
The general advice would be to discard any fruit that are attached to the main one by the fungal body, wash the others well to remove any potential spores off them, dry well (wetness promotes fungal growth) and use within a short time frame.

The USDA has some good advice here - with thanks to SnakeDoc for finding this one.

A: White, green, oolong, and black tea are all products of Camellia sinensis leaves and buds, the only difference is how they are processed.  You can turn the plant matter into any of the varieties.  Different sources will give different accounts of the processing steps, but in rough order of least-to-most processed:

White tea is minimally processed and not oxidized, meaning it retains the natural antioxidants, but does not develop as much flavor, color, or caffeine.  Sweet or flowery flavors are characteristic.
 (Chinese Silver needle white tea)

Green tea has a minimal amount of oxidation, halted by additional pan-frying (Chinese teas) or steaming (Japanese) steps.  The additional processing brings out more flavor, and allows for caffeine to develop, at the cost of a reduction in antioxidants.  Characteristic flavors are grassy, vegetal, and earthy, with sweet notes. 

 (Japanese Sencha)

Oolong tea gets partial fermentation, and often an additional shaking/bruising step that release additional flavors.  Oolong can range in color from dark green to black. The combination of bruising and partial fermentation give many oolongs distinct flowery & earthy flavors.  Darker oolongs may have buttery or smoky tastes to them.  It has somewhat more caffeine and less antioxidants than green tea. 

Tieguanyin or Iron Goddess: (light oolong)

Black Oolong: (Wu Yi)

Black tea is fully fermented, which blackens the leaves and causes the formation of caffeine and tannins. It generally possesses the most robust flavor and highest level of caffeine, but the least antioxidants. 

 (Chinese keemun)

Pu-erh is tea that is pressed into cakes and post-fermented, meaning that after processing and drying it undergoes an additional ripening/fermentation. Microorganisms work on the tea, changing it chemically in a similar fashion to aging cheeses.  Traditionally this is accomplished over years in controlled climate conditions (10-15 years being ideal), but in recent decades a several-month fast ripening process is sometimes used. 

Pu-erh develops a richer, more complex flavor, and has the widest range of flavors of any of the varieties. Before post-fermentation, it may resemble a white, green, or oolong tea, but the ripening process can impart darker black-tea flavors, giving a unique character.

Pu-er Cake

Rooibos, sometimes called red tea, is made from another plant entirely, Aspalathus linearis.  It is a traditional South African infusion, prepared like a black tea but without caffeine. There are two varieties, green and red.  Green is un-oxidized, where red is oxidized.  Rooibos is characterized by a sweet, woody/malty flavor.  Health-wise, it is a source of anti-oxidants, may aid in digestion, and some say it may aid with nervous tension and allergies. 

Yerba mate is from the South American plant Ilex paraguariensis, whose leaves are steeped like tea.  It is generally toasted in processing, and produces a brew with caffeine similar to coffee.  Despite its caffeine, mate is actually relaxing to smooth muscles, so you don't get jitters, and it also helps control appetite. The flavor is vegetal and herbal, and can be bitter if brewed hot. Although it contains antioxidants, this is balanced by traces of carcinogens from the toasting, and the jury is still out on whether mate overall increases or decreases cancer rates. 

Tisanes or herbal infusions these are various blends of dried herbs, fruits, spices, and flowers which are steeped like teas, but do not contain tea leaves.  Generally, the ingredients are dried, although fresh ingredients can be used too.  To confuse matters further, black and green teas may also have flavorings added to them, giving a similar result.

A: According to Biological risks associated with consumption of reptile products International Journal of Food Microbiology, Volume 134, Issue 3, 15 September 2009, Pages 163-175:

People are documented to have been infected with the following pathogens due to raw snake consumption:

Spirometra (Vietnam is specifically mentioned)

Gnathostoma doloresi

Pentastomids

See also Spirometra (Pseudophyllidea, Diphyllobothriidae) Severely Infecting Wild-Caught Snakes from Food Markets in Guangzhou and Shenzhen, Guangdong, China: Implications for Public Health The Scientific World Journal
Volume 2014, Article ID 874014:

In China, there are a lot of cases of human sparganosis caused by eating raw meat of snakes and frogs, drinking snake blood, and swallowing snake gall bladder [16]. Improper cooking methods of snakes will also increase the risk of infection, such as snake skin salad and halfcooked snake meat. In addition, Spirometra may contaminate tableware and food in the process of cooking snake meat. In the year of 2011, a patient suffered from bronchial sparganosis because he had a history of ingesting raw frogs, snakes, and drinking raw snake blood [17]. Another case of cerebral sparganosis reported in 2012 was caused by eating frogs and snakes [18]. In a separate report in 2003, all of the 11 patients infected by Spirometra had the habit of eating raw meat and skin of animals and 6 of them ate snake meat, blood, or snake gall [19]. In 104 cases from 2000 to 2006, 53.9% were caused by eating snakes or frogs [16].

...

More than half (55.0%) of the snakes were infected by Spirometra

Finally, concerning alcohol, see Effect of physicochemical factors on infectivity of Spirometra mansoni plerocercoid Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 2011 Oct;29(5):368-71 :

None of the mice fed with plerocercoids soaked in 60% ethanol for 2 h was infected. All the mice fed with plerocercoids soaked in 60% ethanol for 1 h, or in 50% ethanol for 2 h or 3 h were infected.

So even if the final concentration of alcohol after mixing was 60% (120 proof), and you wait 1 hour after mixing the blood and alcohol, it isn't necessarily sufficient to disinfect.

A: Placing fruit in a bag will help hasten the ripening for only a few fruits.  Most fruits will not ripen (ever) once they have been picked.  The only fruits that ripen once they're picked are bananas, avocados, pears, mango, and kiwifruit.  Ripeness in fruits is based on sugar content, not color, thus most tomatoes in grocery stores have no flavor because they were picked green and exposed to ethylene gas to induce color change.  Tomatoes are what are known as a "climacteric fruit" which means they'll change appearance based on climactic conditions but they don't ripen.  Yes, they continue to soften but that's simply the process of cell deterioration know as decomposition.

Some fruits such as peaches, plums, etc. will seem to develop more sweetness as they sit on the counter but that's because they're also losing moisture and the residual sugars are concentrating in the cell walls.

Placing fruit in a paper bag helps to concentrate the levels of ethylene gas which is what helps induce the ripening of the above mentioned fruits (bananas/avocados, etc.). In fact, avocados and pears must be picked in order to ripen.  Pears that are left on the tree will simply rot.   As mentioned previously...  brown paper bags used to be something everyone had around their house so it was a commmon item before the switch to plastic bags. 

Have you ever noticed some people like red bell peppers and not green ones?  The reason is due to ripeness.

A: The most important thing you can do is buy quality beef. You can throw a USDA Select steak on a 700 degree charcoal grill, cook it perfectly, and it'll still be tough and not at all what you'd get at a fine steakhouse.

In the USA there are three grades of beef available to a consumer: Select, Choice, and Prime. There are lesser grades but they go to fast food joints, prisons, military personnel, and miscellaneous other weird uses.

In most american supermarkets you will find only select, period. This is an "average" steak. It's typically devoid of marbling, and results in a rather flavorless tough steak. 

To find choice steaks you have to go to a higher end supermarket, e.g. Whole Foods You will pay significantly more for a choice steak, but the difference is marked. The marbling will result in a tenderer steak due to the internal fat melting and tenderizing the steak.

Finally, prime cuts. These are very hard to come by in any supermarket unless you live in a bigger city. You typically have to go to a specialty shop or butcher for these. Less than 2% of all beef is classified as prime. On top of this, restaurants get first pick. So even if you do buy a great prime steak, you are likely getting the lower end of the prime spectrum. However, the difference is amazing. The marbling is more intense, more evenly distributed and when cooked properly results in a steak that melts under your knife.

Another one-up a fine steakhouse has on you is they age their beef. Any steak you buy in the grocery store is minimally wet aged. The finest steakhouses dry age their beef. The difference? Wet aging consists of simply vacuum packing the meat (as in a whole side of cow) and refrigerating it for about a week. After that, it's cut smaller and sold to stores. Dry aging is a more complicated and expensive process. Dry aged beef is hung for at least two weeks in a refrigerator. Moisture in the meat is allowed to escape and evaporate, which concentrates the beef flavor of the beef. The beef also grows a moldy rind which is cut off and thrown away. After the aging is complete you're left with 75-80% of the meat you started with. This commands a premium price.

Unfortunately, you can't dry age a steak in your home. There are some refrigerator aging processes that you'll find on this site and others, but they aren't a true comparison.

Another variation that has become more popular is grass-fed beef. This has become a recent fad, at least in the USA. Cattle are traditionally fed corn which makes them fatter and "juicier", but it also leaves the meat tasting very bland. Likely, if you live in the USA, every steak you've ever had was corn-fed. Grass-fed beef on the other hand is fed predominantly grass, they're allowed to graze as cows should. This is good for the cows, because they don't actually eat corn. A cow is made to eat grass. Corn is rather harsh on their digestive system, but they are given no other choice. In the wild a cow would never eat corn. The end result is a very different flavored steak. Grass-fed beef has a much richer, meatier flavor. However, it's also tougher than corn-fed beef. For this reason a steak you will be served in a fine steakhouse is likely not to be grass-fed unless it is specifically designated as such.

With all that out of the way I suggest doing what I do. When I feel like an amazing home cooked steak, I'll splurge on a nice choice ribeye, dip it in a mixture of melted clarified butter and oil, season liberally with salt and pepper, and pan fry it.

A: You've already spotted two of the possible reasons for scrambled eggs to sit in a pool of water: condensation, and the other ingredients in the scramble seeping moisture.  The condensation you can deal with by leaving the eggs to sit (off heat) for 2-3 minutes before plating them.  You're already taking a stab at making the fillings not wet; aside from cooking them well (and making sure to cook off any moisture), some wet fillings (zucchini, tomatoes, etc.) can also benefit from salting and blotting with paper towels.

However, there's another place for moisture to come from, and that's the eggs themselves.  This problem is called "weeping", and affects cooked eggs in all forms (scrambled eggs, quiche, meringues, even boiled eggs).  Over time, as cooked eggs sit, their protein structure squeezes out the water in them.  Various problems can cause that to happen within minutes, as it is in your case.

Here's some tips for avoiding weepy scrambled eggs:

- Add very little, or no, extra liquid to the eggs.  This means that if you tend to add milk or cream to your beaten eggs, it should be no more than 2 tsp.

- Make sure to scramble the eggs uncovered, so their moisture can escape as steam.

- Salt the beaten eggs 15-30 minutes before cooking them, instead of salting them while cooking.  This changes the protein structure of the egg white so that it's less likely to lose moisture.  If you forget, or don't have time, then wait and salt the eggs on the plate; salting them in the pan is almost a guarantee of weeping, in my experience (and Kenji's).

- Avoid overcooking the eggs.  If you cook them "dry", they're more likely to weep. If you like your scrambled eggs dry, then cook them until almost firm, and let them continue setting up off-heat.  Try cooking over low-medium heat until you get the hang of things.

- In addition to wet fillings, fillings that are very acidic (like fresh tomatoes or tomatillos) can affect the eggs and cause them to weep, so consider adding these as a topping instead of cooked into the eggs.

Some additional references:

- Why do Scrambled Eggs get Watery

- Serious Eats tips on Scrambled Eggs

A: Short answer? Not a damn thing. The term is pretty much meaningless in the US; at best it only means that the product doesn't have added colors, artificial flavors or synthetic "stuff". From the FDA:

What is the meaning of 'natural' on the label of food?

From a food science perspective, it is difficult to define a food product that is 'natural' because the food has probably been processed and is no longer the product of the earth. That said, FDA has not developed a definition for use of the term natural or its derivatives. However, the agency has not objected to the use of the term if the food does not contain added color, artificial flavors, or synthetic substances.

A: Ovens are by their nature a high-heat cooking method, and thus create a temperature gradient in the food.  The outside of the item is the hottest, because it is in contact with the hot air, and exposed to the radiant (infrared) heat coming from the oven walls, ceiling and floor.

Heat from the outside then conducts into the inside overtime.  The effect of this is that the surface of the food will be the hottest, and the center the coolest.,

180 C (350 F) is a moderate oven.  It balances:

- Cooking the food through

- Overcooking the outside

It is suitable for a wide range of baked goods and other dishes, although often within limits (especially for non-baked goods) you can trade temperature and time off.

Note that a single oven can only have one temperature, and a moderate oven is good for many cakes and cookies; for baking and heating through casseroles; for roasting root vegetables; for maintaining a braise; and for roasting many meats; and many other tasks.  If you want to have multiple items in the oven at the same time, it is a good temperature to choose that will give good results for a wide variety of items, even if it is not ideal for every item.

Still, it is not ideal for every cooking technique and food item.  Low and slow roasting (for tremendously succulent pulled pork, brisket, and so on) is done as low as 200 F (93 C); some people favor high temperature roasting of certain meats to get a crispy exterior while maintaining a rare interior with temperatures of 450 F (232 C), or even higher.

Many breads are baked at higher temperatures--and of course, pizza infamously is ideally done at temperatures home ovens cannot even achieve, so at home they are often baked at the maximum oven setting around 550 F (280 C).

Deep frying is a separate matter, and it is a complete coincidence that the ideal temperature for deep frying matches that of roasting.

The way deep frying works is that the heat of the oil heats the outside of the food, but it is hot enough to nearly instantly vaporize the water at the surface of the food.  This water creates a small pocket of vapor around the food, preventing the oil from entering and making the item completely oily.   In order for this effect to happen, the oil must be sufficiently hot which starts around 180 C / 350 F.

On the other hand, again, you don't want the food to burn on the outside before it cooks through, but more importantly, you don't want the oil smoking, and developing off flavors (many culinary fats have a smoke point starting not too far above these temperatures).   For these reasons, frying much above this temperature is generally not a good idea.  Most ideal frying temperatures are somewhere in the 350 F - 365 F (180 C 0 185 C) range.

I suspect many recipes indicate 350 F simply because it has become common and conventional.

A: I made myself some spicy chicken and macaroni soup, and put it in a bowl while it was still boiling. I put a thermometer in it as it cooled and I started to eat. I figured the soup was a good thing to test as I could take big bites that included liquid and solids that required chewing.

I took a bite every minute or so and noted the temperature, and I repeated with boiling soup after it had reached "too cool to enjoy".

At temperatures over 190F (87.8C) I couldn't put it in my mouth without giving it time to cool on the spoon and "blowing on it".

At 180F (82.2C) I was still "blowing on it", but not in an unpleasant way for the first bites of soup. I would consider that to be the optimum serving temperature for this kind of soup (see quote concerning Chinese noodle soup below).

At 170F (76.7C) I could put the bite straight into my mouth without pausing or "blowing on it" but it was still a bit hot, if I were eating without paying attention to the temperature, I would have "blown on it"

At 160F (71.1C) I can and did eat comfortably. It was just pleasantly hot.

At 150F (65.5C) it was still pleasantly hot.

At 145F (62.7C) It was still quite warm, pleasant for soup.

At 140F (60C) it was still fine, but not hot at all.

At 135F (57.2C) it was still OK, but definitely getting on the cool side for soup.

At 130F (54.4C) I was glad to be almost done.

At 125F (51.7C) I was thinking seriously about the microwave.

At 120F (48.9C) It was too cool to enjoy this particular soup.

Obviously, different foods are going to have different optimal temperatures. I wouldn't want steak to have ever hit over 130F (45.4C).

Also, consider that I have been cooking for 35 years. I am accustomed to sticking a spoon into something boiling on the stove in order to taste it.

Consider too that there is (at least there is for me) something fun and vaguely comforting about soup that's still a bit too hot to eat. Some of us blow on it, noodles are often slurped for that reason:

Slurping is de rigueur among the Chinese, for practical reasons. “It’s a way of introducing cool air into your mouth to cool off the noodles and the broth if it’s a noodle soup. … Chinese food is generally served hot, often served piping hot.” -Chow.com

So, I don't think there is really such a thing as too hot to serve soup to "consenting adults".

Other types of food are cooled or rested before serving for other reasons. Meat should always be rested to allow the fibers to relax so that the juices stay in the meat instead of running all over the plate. Cheesy things like pizza are easier to cut and serve after they have cooled a bit. Some things are just (subjectively) better after cooling (I prefer fried chicken barely warm, for instance).

So, that's my $.02 on the subject, the answer of "best temperature" is largely subjective.

A: It's Thai, but it's a relatively new dish as it doesn't date back when the country was called Siam, and it uses Chinese style noodles and preparation (with Thai flavors).

There was a coup against the monarchy in 1932; in 1938 Plaek Phibunsongkhram (aka Phibun) came to power as prime minister.  Phibun ordered the creation of a new national dish, "Gway Teow Pad Thai" (Thai fried rice noodles).  The thing was, noodles weren't popular in Thailand before that, but there are stories that as this coincided with World War II, it was a way to get people to eat less rice.  (although, it's rice noodles, so I don't understand that part)

The government pushed for the dish, including subsidizing food carts (and banning non-Thai food cart vendors, so there wasn't competition from the Chinese noodle vendors)

...

But they're not the only country where foods we associate with them are relatively new -- potatoes and tomatoes are "new world" crops, not European, and untrusted (as they're part of the nightshade family along with capsicums (peppers), eggplant, and tomatillos).  So Irish and Italian cuisines before 1500CE (aka 1500AD) were extremely different from what we think of as their cuisines today.

A: There are several main reasons, historically:

- Cows, sheep and goats have udders, and can be milked by hand into a bucket. Pigs (or cats, or humans for that matter) have nipples, where you need to suck the milk out. Consider that most of the cheese in the world was invented before machinery was able to create a vacuum, this means that the only option would have been to suck milk from the pig and spit it into the bucket.

- For making cheese, the fat/protein ratio in the milk is important. It changes, obviously, from species to species, which is why there aren't many hard yellow cheeses made of goat's milk.

Lastly, I have actually had camel's milk ice-cream, which goes to show that it's just a cultural thing mostly.

A: There is no real black and white definition of that difference, because where the line is drawn varies from crowd to crowd.

  

Botanically speaking, a fruit is a seed-bearing structure that develops from the ovary of a flowering plant, whereas vegetables are all other plant parts, such as roots, leaves and stems. By those standards, seedy outgrowths such as apples, squash and, yes, tomatoes are all fruits, while roots such as beets, potatoes and turnips, leaves such as spinach, kale and lettuce, and stems such as celery and broccoli are all vegetables.
  
  

The outlook is quite different in culinary terms, however. A lot of foods that are (botanically speaking) fruits, but which are savory rather than sweet, are typically considered vegetables by chefs. This includes such botanical fruits as eggplants, bell peppers and tomatoes.

You can find the whole article HERE, including this nice graph that I think nicely illustrates things.

A: One factor you may not be considering is the quality of the egg itself. The highest-grade eggs have firm whites and more regular shapes when cracked onto a flat surface. The fresher the egg, generally, the higher the grade. If you've ever cracked a grocery store egg next to a fresh-laid egg, the difference is clear. The hen's diet makes a big difference, too.

But judging by the pictures, I'd say your biggest problem is cooking with too much heat. Notice how much your whites have bubbled and that the edges are already browning while the inner albumen (the thick part of the white that surrounds the yolk) is still raw. In comparison, the albumen of the "prettier" egg has a visibly consistent cook on the whites.
Getting the right temperature

To get that consistent cook on a sunny side up egg you need to use less heat than you'd use for other fried eggs. The inner albumen cooks slower because it's sitting up higher than the outer albumen, farther from the heat. And you're not going to flip this egg, so it's a very uneven heat that you have to work with.

Imagine trying to cook a hamburger, entirely on one side! That's the challenge you have here, except with an egg, which is thinner than a hamburger but also less evenly-shaped and much more delicate. Some people like to loosely cover the pan for part of the cooking time, which reflects some heat and traps some steam to help cook the inner albumen from above. The risk there is that you're also cooking the yolk faster; if you cover the pan tightly, you can end up steaming the egg instead of frying it. You can use a plate, a lid of the wrong size, or another pan if you like.

Assuming you can get the temperature right, though, you don't need to cover the pan. To practice, start with the heat around medium-low and try to find the right balance of heat and time through trial and error. Crispy, brown edges means either too much time or too much heat. If you're practicing, try not to adjust the heat too much in the middle of cooking an egg. Cook one egg through, then assess the result and adjust your heat if necessary on the next one.
Getting the egg into the pan

Once you get the temperature right, assuming your eggs are decent quality, your only other challenge is getting it into and out of the pan gently. If you're rough with the egg, not only will it spread out unevenly, but you can break the membrane that separates the inner and outer albumen. This makes the white cook faster but it definitely doesn't lead to an attractive sunny side up egg.

Cracking the egg into a ramekin or small prep bowl rather than directly into the pan or pot makes it much easier to get a regular, attractive shape on your fried or poached egg. As far as centering the yolk, I suspect that's all about the grade of the egg; high-quality fresh eggs are just firmer and tend not to wander so much. I wouldn't recommend separating the yolk and adding it after the white -- I think that would do more harm than good. You want to keep that nested membrane structure, but separating the yolk requires breaking the inner albumen's membrane. What you get is a yolk that's just going to slide around on the raw surface of the white, instead of being held by the membrane in one place.
Other tips

- Use oil rather than butter. Butter will brown the bottom and edges of your egg more quickly, and give it that browned butter flavor. A classic sunny side up egg is supposed to be evenly white and taste like egg. (Of course, if you like that flavor, go for it!)

- Whether you're using oil or butter, only use enough to keep the egg from sticking. Too much butter can foam up around the edges and not look very nice. Too much oil can result in little splashes of oil on top of the egg and an unpleasant residue on the plate (and palate).

It takes some practice but cooking an egg every which way is a very basic technical skill that will stay with you forever once learned. As you get better you may start to notice how much of a difference the freshness of the egg makes, or how the color of the yolk indicates the quality of the hen's diet (and the flavor and nutrition in the egg as a result).

You don't have to go buy the fanciest eggs on the shelf -- plenty of restaurants get good results with whatever they order from their supplier -- but there's definitely a difference between brands. Hard to tell the gimmick from the real deal without cracking one open; I remember a story on the radio a couple years ago about a woman who resold grocery store eggs at a farmer's market when her hens weren't laying well, passing them off as fresh-laid. Best thing is to keep your own hens, but that's obviously not possible (or desirable) for everyone. Next best source is likely a CSA or farm stand.

Oh and by the way -- I never ate egg breakfast growing up. Couldn't stand them, especially the runny yolks! Tastes change; now I keep my own hens and I love a good runny poached egg. I don't claim to be any sort of professional in the kitchen; it's all about quality ingredients and practice, practice, practice.
A note on color and texture

I wrote above that "crispy, brown edges means either too much time or too much heat." To be clear, that's assuming your goal is a classic American diner-style sunny side up egg, evenly cooked and pale in color, like the photo shown in the question. But crispy fried eggs are also delicious, and require more heat rather than less. I cooked two crispy fried eggs, sunny side up in my wok this morning on a high-output propane burner. The image shows that the edges are crisp and lacy without being burned or ragged, the inner albumen is fully set and the yolk is liquid. I didn't cover the pan, baste with fat, or use any sort of ring mold or specialty egg device as other answers have suggested; I just have enough practice with this pan and heat source to be able to get this result. Which is to say, I've ruined dozens of eggs over the years trying and failing to get this result.

It's fine to cover the pan, to baste the egg, to use egg molds. All of these methods involve trade-offs and you may find that one of them is your preferred method. But if there is a simple thesis to my answer, it's that cooking an egg is fundamentally a problem of finding the right time and temp. And there's no substitute for experience because everyone's kitchen and ingredients are a little different.

A: For me it isn't fried rice without toasted sesame oil, and the fried rice I have had in restaurants always tastes to me as if it contains toasted sesame oil. Peas are pretty required too. BTW, La Choy is synthetic soy sauce, it was at the very bottom of the America's Test Kitchen taste testing of soy sauce (sorry, paywalled), the only soy sauce to get a "not recommended" rating. Use anything but that. From that taste test: "In summary, could this be any worse?"

I actually fry the rice in toasted sesame oil, but I have reason to believe that some toasted sesame oils will burn at that temperature. To experiment with that is on my list of things to do. So I can only say that this sesame oil has a high enough smoke point to fry rice.

For whatever reason, the label does not say that this sesame oil is toasted. It is, and it's a very high quality oil.

Amazon Link

EDIT: In other answers, Pepi mentions ginger, and Teresa mentions oyster sauce. I second both of those. I always use ginger and garlic and either oyster sauce or hoisin sauce. Also, Cindy mentions salt, the eggs do need salt. I actually use all of these in my rice (which looks like this when it is done, this is mine):

I'm assuming already cooked meat, peas sitting in a colander defrosting, water run over them enough to rinse off any clinging ice, and day-old rice.

I start by making slightly underdone scrambled eggs, seasoned just like I season eggs that I'm eating for breakfast. I set the eggs aside on a plate and wipe out the skillet (or flat bottomed wok) with a paper towel, and let it get pretty hot. I don't attempt to use extreme heat, the same level of heat I'd use to sear chicken works fine for me.

I add a good pour of the sesame oil, perhaps 1.5 tablespoons for two big servings (like the amount of fried rice in the picture above), let it heat for 30 seconds or so, then add ginger and garlic and stir. Then I add whatever veggies I'm using in the order of how long I want them to cook (all veggies except peas). When the veggies are just about fully cooked to to the level I want them in the rice, I add the rice, breaking it up and stirring in the veggies. I lightly press everything into the bottom of the pan, then I don"t touch it for a few minutes. I want the rice to get a bit of a brown crust along the bottom and to get mostly heated through before stirring again. This adds color and flavor, and helps keep the rice from sticking. This step seems to bridge the flavor gap between the the rice made with the super-high-heat that Asian restaurants can achieve, and the more moderate heat of a typical home stove. 

In the meantime I mix my sauce. The proportions are up to taste, I usually go about half and half soy sauce and hoisin or oyster sauce. Less soy if is is dark, more if it is light or reduced sodium. I'll usually make just shy of a cup of sauce, knowing I won't use it all.

When the rice has formed a crust, I stir in the meat. Then the sauce, a bit at a time, tasting as I go. Finally I stir in the peas and eggs. I garnish with some chopped cilantro on the plate. Voila.

You mention Five Spice. That would be interesting, and possibly very good, but it is not a flavor that I associate with fried rice.

A: Non-native and out of season fruits and vegetables that are available in northern countries (e.g. UK, Canada) need to be shipped from far away and will be picked before they are naturally ripe (under the normal sun and heat and getting nutrients from the soil).

They will ripen in controlled environments (UV lights, maybe controlled atmosphere and temperature) to be able to be ripen on time during the long transit to be ready when they are put on shelves in your local stores.

In the UK, it is currently the high season for strawberries (I assume it is the same time as in Québec); compare locally-grown strawberries to imported strawberries and compare the flavour and aromas.

(anecdotal) A quick tip when buying imported fruits (and vegetables); keep them outside of the fridge as much as possible, and if planning to eat soon, place them in the sun for a little while and the flavours will get better.

A: There are a couple of reasons why 'resting' meat is a good idea. First, as the meat cooks the muscle fibres contract, which forces the juices out. Letting the meat rest helps the muscle fibres relax so the juices are re-incorporated into the meat and not lost on the chopping board, which would happen if carved immediately.

The second reason to let meat rest is to provide an evenness. Basically as the meat rests it continues to cook slightly and it allows the meat to gain an overall 'doneness'

A: I've worked as a pizza cook, so I can give you a hard-earned answer. Cornmeal, and plenty of it. If you aren't putting cornmeal (or flour, but cornmeal works better) on the peel before you put the pizza on it, start. If you are putting it on, use more. Then put the pizza on it and give it a shake and make sure the pizza is loose before you try to shove it in the oven. If it isn't, lift up the edge that is stuck and sprinkle more cornmeal under it, then try again. The pizza should be completely free-moving on the peel before you try to transfer it to the oven.

A: Their primary purpose is flavor, although (as mentioned by @David Richerby) they can also be used for thickening in some cases. If you don't like them, but other members of your household do, then it becomes a cost-benefit analysis of every dish.

If your hatred of onions is visceral, yet other family members would just kind of rather have them than not, not including them is easy. It becomes trickier if everyone else loves them.

Consider prepping onions by quickly soaking the chopped onions in cold water or giving them a quick pickle in vinegar and salt. That may remove flavors that you find offensive while still keeping those qualities that other members of your household may like.

Garlic provides much of the same flavor profile as onions. Can you add a bit more garlic when you eliminate onions? 

You might find some types of onions less offensive than others. Consider supersweet onions like Vidalia, green onions (AKA scallions), and red onions that have been tamed a bit by soaking or pickling.

Consider asafoetida as a substitute, along with other substitutions found here: What can I substitute for onions?

A: The general category for vegetables/herbs (that are not leafy green herbs, or spices) added to a dish for flavor (rather than bulk/texture/nutrition) is "aromatics", and that describes what they are there for: Add some basic aroma to complete the flavor profile. Typically added early and sauteed or sweated with some kind of culinary fat present to bind the aroma to something that can carry it.

Commonly used: Alliums (onions, spring onions, leeks, garlic,....), celery, rhizomes (ginger, galangal, (finely cut) carrot ...), capsicums (chile peppers, (finely cut) bell peppers..) ... Arguably, one might include tomato concentrate given the way it is sometimes used.

Sometimes the aroma is used as is, sometimes it's augmented by treating the aromatics in a way that adds Maillard reaction products.

There is also some effect on taste, mostly sweet and bitter components.

Some categories where onion and garlic are not always suitable:

- 

Sweet dishes - there typically is no sauteing step involved, and vegetable flavors typically do not work too well here - also because there is too little salt to offset bitter elements introduced.

- 

Dishes made in any culinary tradition that does not approve of alliums, e.g. Jain food, or recipes where alternatives like asafoetida are supposed to take this role completely

- 

Food to be served to people who want to avoid smelling of garlic or onions, or who are allergic or intolerant to it

- 

Raw preparations, sometimes - raw onions and garlic are very spicy and pungent, and have an even higher risk of causing undesirable breath seasoning.

- 

Anything where the garlic would burn (though, of course, you can add a garlic preparation afterwards) - burnt garlic is a generally very undesirable flavor.

- 

Using "normal" onions in dishes calling for shallots and/or spring onions can have undesirable flavor and/or texture effects.

A: - Determine correct ratio of food to salt.

- Add more food until proper ratio is achieved.

Or just serve extra beer with it.

A: When you don't preheat, you cook your food at a lower temperature as your oven heats up for the first 5-15 minutes, depending on the target temperature and your oven's strength.

For forgiving foods, like a casserole, this may not affect you much - you'll just have to bake longer than the recipe says to. As long as you're careful, you'll be fine.

But if you're baking something that should be baked for a short time at a relatively high temperature, your results are going to be very different. For example, take traditional Southern biscuits: they're baked very hot for less than ten minutes. This cooks them all the way through, and browns the top and bottom. If your oven starts out cold, they're going to be done in the middle before they're brown! Beyond under-browning, you'll also run into problems like lack of rising in steam-leavened foods. Pastries, in particular, could probably be disastrous.

A: Classification and use of Stocks vs. Broth:

Broths are the result of cooking meat, not just bones. They're generally the result of preparing another item and usually not prepared specifically on their own. The juices poured off from a roasted turkey (after being degreased) would be considered broth.  Whole chickens being poached for another preparation would create broth.

Stocks are made from just the bones. They are prepared specifically for use in other recipes (sauces, soups, stews, rice, etc.)  Stocks are never salted in their preparation or the finished dish will most likely end up too salty due to reduction that will take place upon further cooking. Note that homemade stock will be often a bit more broth-like than restaurant/commercial stocks, since it's really hard to get all the meat off the bones.

Stocks are usually simmered for a very long time (4-6 hours for chicken & 8-12 for veal/beef) to extract maximum flavor and gelatin from the bones.

Broths aren't usually cooked nearly as long due to the fact that cooking the meat for extended periods (even chicken surrounded by the liquid) will result in tough, flavorless meat.

Consomme: a fortified and clarified stock.  The stock is fortified in flavor by the addition of a "raft" which is a combination of lean ground meat (appropriate to the type of stock being used) with brunoise (1/16 inch) mirepoix (carrots, onions, celery), and egg whites.  The raft mixture is stirred into the cold stock and as it gently heats, the proteins coagulate forming a "raft" on top of the stock.  A small hole is poked in the center (if one hasn't already formed) and as the stock bubbles through the hole it leaches back through the ground meat/egg white raft which filters out impurities to clarify the stock and fortify it with flavor.

Bouillon:  French word for broth.

Court Bouillon: sometimes called a "short broth".  A poaching liquid usually used for fish that is usually comprised of water,  acid (lemon juice, vinegar, wine), parsley stems, bay leaves, peppercorns, and some salt.

When to use Stock vs. Broth:
Use stock when a sauce is to be reduced significantly or when clarity of the final result is preferred.

Broths can be substituted for stock when the body of the liquid or clarity isn't important, and when the liquid will be thickened by addition of a starch.

A: I don't see anything in the question that is peculiar to pizza dough. Anything I answer will apply to any kind of yeast-risen, glutenous dough.

The goal with any such dough is a well hydrated protein matrix that has been arranged in sheets that will trap the gas produced by yeast.

- If the yeast is dead it won't be able to produce gas and your bread will be somewhere between a cracker and shoe leather- depending on how thick you roll it out.

- Using too little yeast is not the same as dead yeast. If you use too little yeast (within reason) they will take a long time to reproduce, eat, and blow up your stretchy proteins. They will be producing a lot of flavor during this period. This will generally taste good.

- If you use too much yeast (within reason) the yeast will act very quickly. This is nice for speed but it will result in a much less developed flavor. Neither is a problem so you can choose for yourself.

- Using too little water will result in not enough gluten development and a dry, or crumbly dough. The dough won't hold gases and there will also not be enough steam when baking so the dough will be more dense.

- Too much water and you have a batter that can't be worked with.

- Over working a dough isn't so much of a concern. It is possible to over knead but it is hard to do. See: Possible to over-knead dough?.

- Under working the dough will result in less gluten development and very similar results as using too little water- basically you will have unleavened biscuit dough. The exception is if you are following a "no-knead" recipe. In this case the dough is allowed to rest for days which lets the protein sheets form on their own.

- Resting the dough is necessary both to relax the protein mesh that you created as well as to allow the yeast a chance to blow it up with some CO2. Not long enough and you won't be able to roll out the dough because it will be too tight and it won't be risen because the yeast haven't eaten. Too long and the bubbles will coalesce into large open cavities. A good rule of thumb is "doubled in volume". Usually about an hour but this is highly dependent on how much yeast you use, how much water, and the ambient temperature.

The end result is that you don't need to worry about most of these things.
The biggest mistakes I see people make is making a dough too dry or simply not kneading enough. It is easier to add flour than water so put in less than the full amount of flour, knead for a while, if the dough stays too sticky then add a bit more flour and knead in.

As answers to other questions have said- you want a dough that is "smooth and elastic" it isn't sticky and looks homogeneous. After just a couple tries you will get a feel for how wet that means and you'll be an expert.

For pizza dough in particular- almost as important as the dough construction is the baking temperature. You want to cook it as hot as you can. 500F in an oven or on a grill. It will only take 5-10 minutes. The fast hot cooking will do a lot for your crust texture. It makes the difference between a crispy, chewy pizza crust and a soft, bready (and soggy under the toppings) crust.

A: Baking powder, especially if too great a quantity is used, adds an unpleasant flavor to a baked good.  Even in an appropriate quantity it can be noticeable and it certainly doesn't do anything to enhance the flavor.  Many baked goods traditionally don't use a chemical leavener at all, but instead rely on technique.  Creaming butter and sugar together or whipping egg whites was historically used to make cakes which rose solely based on the bubble network that was created.

Yeast, on the other hand, creates a delightful flavor that you associate with your favorite crusty loaf of bread.  Yeast can be used not only in making bread but also in some excellent cakes (St. Louis Gooey Butter Cake, for example, although many "knock off" recipes cheat here and miss out on the true goodness).  Yeast also provides a significantly different texture during the rising due to the intentional creation of a gluten network (usually something you absolutely don't want in a quick bread or quick cake) — you don't get a crumb with big, airy holes from baking powder or baking soda with an acid.

Also, in my experience baking powder lasts six months in the pantry and yeast lasts at least six months in the fridge.  The shelf life is not so different.

If yeast scares you, you may want to check out some of the proponents of the no-knead bread technique.

For a lot more information on this subject, there is a recent publication that covers all sorts of leavening agents.

A: Reasons to wash your rice:

- 

Reduce/Control Starch levels

- Often when you're cooking rice you want distinct grains of rice and for your rice to have texture. In the case of Chinese fried rice for example, you specifically want your rice grains to not stick to one another. If you're talking white rice especially, there will be a lot more loose starch that will form a thickish paste if if you don't rinse it away.

- 

To clean out impurities

- I imagine there was a time when there were a lot more impurities (dirt, dust, bugs, etc...). I don't know if that's necessarily the case these days with modern manufacturing. If you're concerned about your source, then this may be a factor for you. There's also the occasional random article that suggest rinsing to reduce levels of something like arsenic (see FDA warning on arsenic in rice)... I think 1. is your bigger factor here though.

Reasons to not wash your rice:

- 

It removes nutrients.

- This is true for fortified rice. See here for more information on the fortification process. Note, whole grain/brown rices are less often fortified (I want to say they're not fortified, but I actually don't know for sure). So it would depend on what kind of product you're buying and where it came from.

- 

You actually want to keep the extra starch.

- This is the case for things like risotto where the starch is what gives the dish it's creaminess. Serious Eats has a great article that talks about the process.

A: As stated in another answer, Italian tradition is that all pasta is cooked in boiling water. A reasonable explanation for this usage is that it's easier to get the time right this way. 

Pasta is very sensitive to cooking time, and will easily turn from 'al dente' to an overcooked mush if left on the fire a couple of minutes too much. By cooking it in boiling water, you ensure that it cooks in uniform conditions, always at the same temperature, regardless of the starting temperature of the water, the temperature of your kitchen, and the power of your burner. So it is a safer bet that cooking it for the same amount of time will work.

In my experience, the time marked on the package is almost always accurate for pasta cooked in boiling water. So it gives you a useful reference point, which you don't have if you cook it starting from cold water.

A: Another physics digression.

All cooked food gets hot, and everything in any given dish will have the same temperature {*}. The tomatoes don't get hotter than the other ingredients. But they do have a tendency to burn more than certain other substances, so the question is "Why?".

You get burned when a portion of your flesh reaches a high enough temperature{+}. The food warms your tongue, lips, etc. by heat conduction until either you move the food or your mouth parts and the food reach the same temperature (a condition known as thermal equilibrium). What that common temperature is depends on the amount of heat (i.e. thermal energy) in the system. Some of the factors that come into play are:

- How much (mass of) food there is.

- How much (mass of) your mouth is involved (see below).

- The initial temperature of the food.

- The "heat capacity" of both the food and your mouth parts, which is a property of each substance that appears as a coefficient in the thermal equilibrium equation. (Don't worry, I'm not going to make you read any math.) Water has a (very!) high heat capacity, so watery foods tend to drive high final temperature and thus to burn you more easily. There is an added complication for the extra heat needed to establish a phase change (i.e. melt solids or vaporize liquids) called the heat of fusion or heat of vaporization. Again water has a high value for both of these numbers.

How fast the common temperature is reached depends on

- The area of contact between the food and the mouth.

- Another coefficient called the thermal conductivity. This one is complicated, but liquids tend to have a high thermal conductivity and solids less so. This is where soups, sauces, and melted cheese really get you. Note that your mouth parts has a pretty low thermal conductivity, so you only get to count the surface layers in finding the equilibrium temperature. Sorry.

Some consequences of all this:

- This is why you can peel the aluminum foil off of a pan that has just come out of a 400 degree (F) oven without trouble, but if you get your hand stuck in the steam plume (which is only around 212 degrees F) you get scalded: Aluminum has a low heat capacity, and steam has a (very, very!) high one.

- Small bites help in two ways: less total heat means a lower common temperature, and may allow you to move the food around in your mouth, reducing the temperature of any one part.

- Some foods are just dangerous this way. You know what they are from experience: steam, hot soups and sauces, melted cheese, etc.

{*} Well, sort of. But take that as true for any particular region of any particular dish.

{+} What temperature is that? Good question. Maybe there is a medical professional around, 'cause I don't know. I'd guess around 140--150 degrees F (call it 60--65 degrees C), but don't quote me.

A: Folding a burrito is serious business. Get it wrong and you'll end up dumping most of the contents all over the place and look like a burrito noob. Get it right and your hands and plate will be perfectly clean, and you'll no longer be hungry. Beware: publicly flaunting these skills might lead to people wanting you to fold their burritos for them.

General Tips

First off: make sure your tortilla is ready to be folded. A cold or dried out tortilla is likely to crack or split. Use a warm and moist tortilla. 

Second: don't overfill the tortilla. If you have small tortillas don't try to make a giant burrito and expect that to work.

How to fold

Now that we have the basics out of the way let's get to folding. See the flash animation at Chow.com (which I've converted into an image here):

- 

Place the contents in the approximately center of your partially folded tortilla. Leave plenty of room on the ends otherwise you'll most surely have food spilling out once it's folded up. Hold the filled tortilla so the weight of the filling pulls it tight. If your burrito busts through now, it will certainly burst later. If not, proceed to step 2.

- 

Fold one end towards the center.

- 

Fold the other end over.

- 

Roll the bottom (the end nearest you) up towards the top. This isn't the intuitive way, but it's the right way. Make sure not to let the food squeeze out. I hold it with my fingers at the crease where the bottom edge that's been folded up meets the food.

- 

Keep rolling it up.

- 

Om nom nom.

A: In addition to Max's answer, much UK supermarket fruits and vegetables are from varieties grown to have tough skins (so they don't damage in transit), have a long shelf life (so they can be transported long distances and won't go off in the shop), and don't easily bruise / spoil. UK consumers (at least according to supermarkets) care more about cosmetic appearance than their continental counterparts who appear to care more about taste, and UK supermarkets care more about consistency of product (size, weight, appearance, availability). Consistency of availability also means UK supermarkets are less likely to stock a great product that is only available for two weeks of the year (there is a cost to setting up the supply chain). In essence supermarkets stock what sells, and what sells is often tasteless but resilient fruit / veg that will happily sit in someone's fridge for a considerable period of time without spoiling, but in general tastes less good.

Much food in supermarkets in (e.g.) South of France, is grown locally to the supermarket, and not transported to one end of the country and back, and is thus likely to be fresher (and hence tastier); in France at least I understand this is due to local buying by supermarkets which does not exist to nearly the same extent in the UK. I can't specifically comment on Italy, Greece and Turkey but I would guess it's similar.

Whilst per the above I agree there is a difference, I think something else might be at play. When you eat that peach you bought in Greece at the market, it is at ambient temperature for Greece (higher than the UK), and you are eating it in a relaxed environment (assuming you are there on holiday), in the sunshine. When you eat the peach from Sainsbury straight from the fridge in a rainy July in the UK, it's cooler, and you aren't in such a good mood. The increased temperature will increase the volatility of the organic compounds and thus increase the perceived aroma and thus the taste. Your better mood also plays into things (see e.g. http://www.nature.com/news/2006/061204/full/news061204-5.html). Try leaving the fruit out to at least get to room temperature before eating it.

A: If you want to be really, really picky, then the 'green' is each individual leaf as it breaks away from the cylindrical whole.

That leaves you with the decision as to whether to pick off each leaf, giving you a bit of extra 'white' or just make some relatively arbitrary decision after you hit that first leaf 'node'.

So, unless you want to pick off each leaf, then it's 'about here… ish… '

Personally, if I'm being 'a bit picky' I will unwrap the outer layer for the first couple of nodes, where they go unattractively lumpy, purely for aesthetic reasons & include the rest in my 'white' distinction. Once I get far enough I [that I can't be bothered any further] then I pick out any remaining 'white' bits & go all-in for the rest  of the greens, until I hit the raggy ends, which join the roots in the compost bag.

Once you've actually cut to the green line, separation for 'fussy distinction' reasons does get easier, as you're no longer dealing with the entirety of the onion & its reluctance to part layers without ripping down to the root - you can just pull bits off & deal with them separately.

A: Muffins and cakes rise because of chemical leavening agents and the expansion of hot gasses, they stay risen because the flour and sugar forms a structure which traps the air, then solidifies enough to hold its shape once the expansion has stopped. Cocoa puffs are made in a process called extrusion, where batter is pressurized and shot out in little spurts. On the release of this pressure the little squirt of batter expands and almost crystallizes in the same way as a muffin or cake, in other words puffs are cooked by a different method, but the processes which make them hold their shape is the same.

These processes aren't reversible, you can't turn a cake back into flour, milk, sugar and eggs. Grinding up cocoa puffs is essentially the same thing as grinding up dried cake, they may absorb some moisture but as the chemical and physical changes involved in crystallization have happened it won't happen again.

What it looks like is that your batter expanded enough to go over the top of the muffin pockets and then outward, then collapsed because there was no structure to keep the shape.

A: The ripening itself is caused by ethylene gas released by the food, which is trapped by any kind of bag.

As far as I know, there's nothing inherently special about a brown paper bag, other than the fact that it's porous and thus still allows some air to get in and out.  Plastic ziplock bags have no ventilation, so they don't work nearly as well.

A: My 2 centesimi (italian for cents) from a very much biased perspective, i.e. trying to push my subjective point of view with supposedly objective criteria.

Sugo alla Bolognese, or ragù alla Bolognese is a sauce which is traditionally eaten with tagliatelle or, more generally, egg-based fresh pasta. It is supposed to have a 'rounded' and somewhat sweet taste, and that's also why usually you cook it for quite long, in order to sweeten the tomato taste. Garlic is quite sharp in flavor, which clashes with the rest of the flavors, while onion becomes sweet as you cook it, and that's why it's usually preferred.

I would also add a more generic aspect: of course when you cook you are free to experiment with whatever combinations you like, and if possible you can try different versions of the same dish and compare them. A cook however (usually) has the goal to please his guests/customers and may choose depending on what they may expect. Also, typically they would indicate whether the recipe is traditional or revisited, unless their name speaks for them.

Update:

The Chamber of Commerce of Bologna has registered an official recipe for the "Ragù alla Bolognese" (mind you, it doesn't math with the Spaghetti Bolognese you eat anywhere else, it's the regional recipe).

This official recipe includes by default onion, carrot and celery and has garlic in the "Not admitted" variants.

That's not to say you can't use garlic wherever you want, only that some traditional dishes have an established tradition, and if you want to prepare them with variations, someone might argue with you about authenticity.

A: "Commonly used" depends mostly on the culture, I'd assume.  There's a lot of different oils, so I've organized by use rather than try for a complete list.

Some of the ones that you might find in a "typical American" foodie's kitchen include:

For frying: something with a high smoke point : peanut, sunflower, soy, extra light olive oil

For baking (muffins & cakes): something with a mild flavor : corn, canola, "vegetable", soy

For baking (biscuits & pastry, or greasing a pan) something solid at room temp : butter, shortening, lard

For general pan cooking: olive oil (any kind), butter, anything from the "baking (muffins)" list.  update: this assumes sautéing heat or lower; see 'frying' for higher heat applications.

For salad dressing: any nut oil, mild oil, or virgin / extra virgin olive oil

For sauces: Butter.

For finishing: something flavorful to drizzle over at the last second... odds are, it's extra virgin olive oil, but possibly sesame or a nut oil.

Now, there's regional differences -- in the south, it's pretty common to save your bacon grease for cooking and to use shortening for frying.  Lard's still popular in hispanic (and likely other) cuisine, schmaltz (rendered poultry fat) is used in both Jewish and French cooking.  Ghee (similar to clarified butter), is used Indian cuisine ... and the list goes on.

If you're looking for a 'must keep on hand' list -- a mild oil, extra virgin olive oil and butter will get you through most anything.  Add shortening if you like baking, and sesame oil if you like to cook asian food, and you'll be prepared for most anything.

A: The initial heating of the milk, besides denaturing proteins to improve the texture, also pasteurizes the milk.

The culture needs to be added in a high enough concentration to crowd out harmful bacteria that might exist.

That said, if your tools or containers are dirty or if your starter is dead, or you don't add enough starter, your yogurt can grow accidental bacteria and go off.

Note

As Bob1 commented, this applies to the first few hours of fermentation before the milk has become acidic enough to inhibit other microbes.

A: I sometimes add a bit of lemon juice... works to a degree.

A: First of all- yeast is not nearly as complicated to use as your question would seem to imply. Yes it is a living organism but it is a very simple one. Active dry yeast will stay viable for years in the freezer and it is easy enough to avoid adding it to water that is too hot for it.

It can be inconvenient to wait for yeast products to rise but there are two very important benefits:

1) Yeast will keep producing CO2 as long as there are sugars to eat- this means that you can raise tougher doughs- like bread dough- where baking powder just wouldn't have enough lift.

2) Flavor. This is the big one. Baking powder tastes gross. At best you can't taste it at all. Yeast risen products have a distinct complex flavor that you can't get any other way.

A: My wife loves bacon that's cooked to the cusp of burning, so I've got a good knowledge of the properties of bacon on that fine line. It's so brittle, you can powder it very easily. 

I myself would probably just stick it in a plastic bag, and whack it a few times with a pan, but I don't see any reason why you couldn't put it in the blender. I have a nice mortar and pestle I use for powdering things, but that's probably overkill in this case.

A: Creaming puts the air bubbles into the mixture. The baking powder only helps enlarge the bubbles, not make them.  In cookies the creaming plays another essential role, which is to help dissolve the sugar.  To cream the butter keep it cool and do it for a few minutes (at 65&deg;F, harder in the summer).

It has recently been discovered that cookie dough is different from cake batters. Sugar is part of the structure of the cookie and not just a sweetener, tenderizer, and browning agent.  It forms the base upon which the fats and the starch granules of the flour are embedded.  The sugar needs to dissolve for the matrix to form.

If you beat the whole thing, it will be harder to get bubbles in and you may end up overworking the dough.  The cookies will end up flat and tough.

A: Daniel is spot-on with his answer. I'll elaborate on it a bit here.

As indicated by his bottled water in the freezer trick, a full freezer is a happy freezer. The same applies to the refrigerator too. While I wouldn't put random bottles of water throughout my refrigerator, it's important to know that the fuller your refrigerator is, the more it holds its temperature when opening/closing, and the less energy you'll use. However, you don't want to jam pack it so full that there isn't any airflow around your stuff, because this can hamper the cooling efficiency as well.

The ideal refrigerator temperature is 35°F (1.6°C). You're not hugging the danger zone like you would be at 40°F (4.4°C), and you're distancing yourself sufficiently from 32°F (0°C) that you don't freeze half the stuff in your refrigerator. That said, the temperature within your fridge can vary rather significantly with normal usage.

The coldest parts of your refrigerator are the back, and the bottom. The back because the cooling element is there, and the bottom because warm air rises. If items you don't want frosty are getting frosty, then move them away from the back of the fridge. I would avoid putting items in the door of your fridge that are particularly sensitive to spoilage. The items in the door of your fridge can easily get as high as 59°F (15°C), and do so often. Putting milk and eggs in your door will significantly decrease their shelf life. Butter is OK in the little covered section in the door, because the door actually helps keep it's temperature a little better. You also generally don't want rock solid frozen butter. 

So, put your meats on the bottom shelf in the back, your condiments (mayo, ketchup, mustard, etc.) in the door, and put everything else where it fits.

A: The goal is to keep the surface of the bread from drying out.

A wet towel works fine but plastic wrap is cheaper and easier than constantly cleaning wet towels.

I have used both methods and haven't noticed a difference in the bread produced. In very dry climates, when I made bread with multiple rises I sometimes had to redampen the towel which was an added inconvenience.

Lately I have been proofing large batches of bread in a large stock pot and just use the lid of the pot as the only cover.

A: For dried pasta it doesn’t really matter if you start with cold or hot water, as most of the time pasta spends in water is for hydration. And once the hydrated starches reach a certain temperature they gelatinize, thus cooking the pasta. When you start with cold water, you should use less water, which is actually a plus...

Note: I forgot to mention, you should swirl the pot every couple of minutes to prevent sticking.

However, when you’re cooking fresh pasta, you should directly start with boiling water. As it’s already hydrated, you just need gelatinization.

As for which you should do for dry pasta, there are benefits to both:

- starting from boiling

- more consistent timing (and less attention), since you can time from when you add the pasta

- works with long shapes like spaghetti and fettuccine, since they'll soften quickly to bend submerge

- starting from cold

- faster overall - less water to boil, and pasta is already starting to cook by the time it hits a full boil

- easier to avoid initial sticking

- starchier pasta water, useful for sauces

A: One important fact to note here is that many spices are oils or oil-soluble.  Pepper, for example, will dissolve effectively in oil, and thus the flavor of pepper can be imparted into other things thereby; however, if you attempt to dissolve it in water, you'll mostly end up with the pepper just staying in the peppercorn (if whole or large pieces) or floating to the top/sinking to the bottom if ground.

That's one reason why you have sauces: they're ways to get oils onto the food.  The sauce has some oil in it, the pepper oil dissolves into that oil, and tada, you have yummy tasting food.

Only certain things will dissolve in water, like sugar and salt.  Some things, like coffee, will dissolve partially in water (sometimes that's helpful, if the oil doesn't taste very good).  But many spices are oils or oil-soluble, particularly chile/pepper type spices (the "hot-as-in-spicy" ones).

A: Put the lobster in the freezer for about 30 minutes, it will basically be in a sleeping/coma state when you take it out. Then cut into its head lengthwise to destroy its brain before it wakes up. 

Some people say that killing the lobster in a less stressful way gives the meat a better texture/flavor. But personally I have not been able to tell any difference.

EDIT: Another solution, though not a clean or popular method for lobster; If you destroy its brain faster than the speed pain travels through nerves, it would be dead before the pain reaches the brain. Could be accomplished by shooting it in the brain with a gun... a common method used to humanely kill many things.

A: It can range on the size of the lemon and the time of year.  A medium lemon will give 2-3 Tablespoons of juice, where a larger lemon can give 1/4 cup (4 Tablespoons).   Just have to decide on much lemon flavor you want in your recipe as to which number you pick.

A: I make biryani frequently.  The recipe I follow differs from your link in a couple of areas.  Specifically, in terms of your concern about onion flavor, my recipe uses much more oil, and twice as much onion.  I slowly fry two, very thinly sliced, large onions (the variety doesn't seem to matter so much), in 3/4 cup of oil.  The onions are cooked until they take on a golden hue.  This can take 10 to 15 minutes.  The onions are then removed from the pot.  I leave about 1/4 cup of oil in the pot, which is the vessel that I will use to layer the rice, chicken, onions and herbs.

This is significant for a couple of reasons.  First, oil transports flavor.  So, in addition to the onions themselves, there is a base of onion flavored oil.  In addition, once the layers are complete, another 1/4 cup of the leftover onion flavored oil (from draining onions) is drizzled over the top.  Secondly, the slowly cooked onions are layered throughout the biryani. (This also helps to create an excellent browned crust of rice and chicken when the final product is turned out of the pot).

In my version, the spices are mixed with the chicken and yogurt, as part of a marinade.  They are not added to the onion.  However, I am sure there is much variation in how biryani is made.  I am not suggesting a correct version, just some possible insight in how to enhance your onion flavor and sweetness (which comes from the caramelized onion).

I would also add, that if you are indeed following the recipe to the letter, and using a pressure cooker, that pressure cooking tends to drastically mute onion flavor.  I found this to be true when making stocks using my pressure cooker.  I would try cooking this in the traditional way (not the pressure cooker) to see if that helps.

A: "Room temperature" as used for testing, analysis, and validation purposes generally falls within the range of 65F-75F (18C-24C). Published research will typically specify temperature ranges used.

Both the FDA Food Code (2017) and Canadian Food Retail and Food Services Code (2016), providing guidelines for inspection activities, take an outcome-based approach and do not reference specific storage temperatures or humidity levels as products stored unopened in these conditions are designed to be safe or are self-evident if spoiled/unsafe - mouldy potatoes, rusted or swollen cans, etc.

In most jurisdictions in North America, refrigerator and freezer temperature conditions are often codified in laws and may be required to be explicitly labelled for consumer protection since pathogen activity is not as readily evident as spoilage - some Listeria, for example, can reproduce in food below 40F/4C, making both maximum storage temperature and duration needed.

A better source for optimum room temperature conditions would be your local building code, though most will specify the same range noted above and humidity 

For your ghee example - it originates in India for preserving butterfat at 30C+ temperatures and seasonal relative humidity close to 100%. When properly stored in an airtight container there is no water available for microorganism activity, and the concern is more for long-term quality decline due to oxidative rancidity.

A: Baking soda is pure sodium bicarbonate, while baking powder includes an acidifying agent (cream of tartar) and a drying agent (starch).

You can substitute baking soda for baking powder if you already have an acidifying agent in a recipe (like buttermilk).

http://chemistry.about.com/cs/foodchemistry/f/blbaking.htm

A: In most dishwashers the heating elements are on the bottom only. Lightweight plastic items might melt (soften and distort, not drip away) on the bottom, but they don't mind being in the steamy environment or being sprayed with hot detergent-laced water. They are therefore only dishwasher safe on the top shelf.

I've melted a plastic bowl or two in my time; there is a definite difference between top and bottom.

A: Before you submerge the egg, prick the large end of the shell with a (clean!) thumb tack or safety pin.  This will allow the trapped air bubbles - which are normally responsible for cracking - to escape during the boiling process.

Also take care to avoid any impacts:

- 

Don't overcrowd the pot - the eggs should form a single sparse layer;

- 

Use a tongs or spoon to lower the eggs into the boiling water - or start with cold water with the eggs already in the pot.

- 

Make sure you use enough water - cover the eggs by at least an inch.

P.S. Even though the above should always prevent cracking, if you're still having problems, you can add some vinegar to the water.  This will not help with cracking but it will make the eggs set quicker if they do crack and mitigate the nasty mess.  I don't do this anymore, but something to remember if you're desperate (i.e. if the eggs are very old).

A: Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on.  It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C.

A general purpose domestic fridge should be at around 1-4 °C (so, just above the freezing point, and below 5 °C).  Normally it's not possible to set a fridge to 0 °C (at least not over here), but sometimes the temperature sensor doesn't work as intended, especially if there is a freezer compartment that is heavily frosted.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Refrigerator has some more info, and also lists some alternative temperatures for special purpose fridges & freezers, e.g. for fresh fruit a normal fridge is too cold.

  

Some refrigerators are now divided into four zones to store different types of food:
  
  
  
- −18 °C  / −0.4 °F (freezer)
  
- 0 °C / 32 °F (meats)
  
- 5 °C / 41 °F (refrigerator)
  
- 10 °C / 50 °F (vegetables)

A: It sounds to me like the issue may be that you're crowding the pan.

Basically, to get everything nice and brown and crispy, you need enough space for all of the steam to escape.  That picture you showed has potatoes stacked on top of each other -- that means as the bottom items cook, they're going to end up steaming the items above them.

At a diner, they have a large griddle to work with -- they can really spread things out.  You're not typically that lucky in a regular kitchen, as you don't have as much space, and you have a lip on the pans that'll hold the steam in.

So, either work in smaller batches, or consider recipes that use an oven -- using sheet pans instead of a pan on the stove solves much of the problem.

One other trick is that most diners don't start from raw potatoes -- maybe with hash browns, but not for home fries, you're not going to get the nice soft interior in a reasonable amount of time unless you start with a potato that's already been baked or boiled.  (If you're doing things in the oven, you might be able to, but not in a pan)

Just for reference ... I have a 14" cast iron skillet that I use for home fries ... and it's about the right size for cooking a single large potato, which might be two servings, maybe three for kids.  (I tend to cook carb-heavy meals).

update : I probably should've stated this directly -- you want the chunks of potato to form a single layer in the pan, with space in between them.

A: what chemical reaction happened

It wasn't a chemical reaction, it was a physical reaction.

Everything you describe sounds like your batter was able to trap air much better than a typical muffin batter - you say yourself it was sticky. When it started baking, the air expanded, due to the baking powder, the production of steam, and the plain old gas laws (expansion under heat). But you did not have a muffin batter, which creates a porous inner structure and sets into it under heat. Instead, it was like a balloon inflating. And then the balloon wall was not strong enough to contain the hot gas, and it burst.

You can see another argument for that theory in your own observation that the cooled-down results were "rubbery". It seems to have been stretchy and rubbery like a balloon, and to have acted like an overinflated balloon.

A: I find that brushes and even paper towels are too rough on mushrooms. I use cold running water and gentle rubbing by hand.

A: It is simply water content. Water has a much higher heat capacity than anything else we eat. You might think fats have a higher heat capacity, but that is an illusion - they can get much hotter because they don't boil at 100 C, but they hold considerably less heat than water in a given quantity. Tomatoes are almost all water, thus they can burn your mouth quite easily.

A: It's possible, but the reason why we drink cow/goat/sheep milk is because of how much easier it is to get at it. Pigs don't store their milk in udders, making each milking of them a very low-yield process.

A: "Fancy," when used in the labeling of foods, is almost invariably tied to USDA standards for the classification and grading of the foods.  Foods traded on the wholesale market are not required to grade their foods - the use of the system is voluntary.  The USDA grading names tied to different food types aren't always consistent or intuitive.  

Examples:  Vegetable grades, in descending order of quality, are:  US Extra Fancy, US Fancy, US Extra #1, and US #1.  Fruit grades, in descending order of quality are:  US Fancy, US #1, US #2, and US #3.  Frozen fruit grades, in descending order of quality are:  US Grade A (or Fancy), US Grade B (or Choice or Extra Standard), and US Grade C (or Standard).

Ketchup has its own USDA grading system based partially on the specific gravity of the product - ketchup grades, in descending order of quality are:  Fancy, Extra Standard, and Standard.  A "Fancy" ketchup isn't all dolled-up in some way, but is likely to have a better and more uniform consistency with fewer undesirable characteristics or flaws than lower grade ketchups.

But, again, just because a ketchup doesn't state that it's "Fancy" doesn't necessarily mean that the contents don't meet the specifications for a fancy ketchup.  "Fancy Ketchup" is always "Fancy."  "Ketchup" might be fancy quality and not labeled as such.

Yes, there are tomato ketchups that are less fancy than "Fancy Ketchup," but I imagine that the "Fancy" designation for fancy quality ketchups has fallen out of popular usage - except perhaps in the realm of fast food packets where people have become accustomed to seeing it written that way.

A: There's some variation in how people respond to Stevia:

From 2013: Multiple genes manage how people taste sweeteners

  

another study recently published in the journal Chemosensory Perception, Allen had 122 participants taste two stevia extracts, RebA -- Rebaudioside A -- and RebD -- Rebaudioside D. Stevia is a South American plant that has served as a sweetener for centuries, according to the researchers. While the plant is becoming more popular as a natural non-nutritive sweetener, consumers have reported a variety of tastes from stevia-based sweeteners, including bitterness.

No mention of people not tasting the sweet at all, but it is a big gene pool.
In me, the stuff is a slow,tight binder. It takes a while for the sweet to come on once I've eaten the stevia, and it takes a minute or two for the sweet to wear off after I've had it.

A: I suppose that depends on what you're defrosting it for.

The microwave (on low power) is safe and quick.  The downside is that you're using a microwave, which means there's a good chance you'll actually cook the outside slightly in the process, and you're killing enzymes that are normally part of the flavour.  The lower the heat, the less the impact of this, but it's still a problem.  If I'm preparing the meat for marinating, stir-fry, etc., something with a powerful or thick sauce, then I wouldn't worry about it, but if it's going onto a grill with just a little bit of seasoning, you might want to avoid this.

Running it under warm water would seem to work, but I've found that it takes forever to defrost this way (the exterior will loosen up but the interior stays stubbornly frozen), and you're soaking it in the process.  This really isn't suitable if you need to pound or fold the meat or do anything complicated with it.

I would use the microwave if desperate, but it's really best to thaw the meat in the refrigerator or, if you're in a bit of a hurry, the sink.  It takes longer, but it'll turn out much better than the microwave in terms of flavour and tenderness.

P.S. One other word of advice: If you're making a dish that requires the chicken to be cut or sliced, it's best not to defrost it all the way.  It's easier to cut when frozen, and will defrost very quickly once it's in pieces.  I'm mainly talking about the breast here, this doesn't work so well with meat stuck to bones.

Update: I'm noticing a lot of recent hubbub about the dangers of defrosting in the sink / on the countertop or using warm water and I wanted to clarify something.  Please note that that the advice above applies to chicken that will be immediately cooked after defrosting and that the defrosting is done over a period shorter than 2 hours.

Raw chicken must not be kept at any temperature above 40° F (4.4° C) for more than an hour or so.  Do not defrost a chicken breast in the sink and then toss it back in the fridge.  Definitely don't try to defrost a whole bird this way - stick to the refrigerator or very cold running water.

As long as you follow the above precautions and cook the chicken thoroughly (up to an internal temperature of 165° F), you're not in any serious danger of salmonella poisoning, even if the original piece of meat was contaminated - and most chicken sold today is contaminated, for the record.

If the meat is going back in the refrigerator for marinating or you plan to delay cooking for any other reason, then you need to either thaw it very fast (using the microwave) or at a very low temperature (using the refrigerator or cold running water).

A: Butchered meat is generally sterile except on its exterior.  (That doesn't mean parasite- or botulism-free, but it's a start.)

Get the best quality you can from a source you trust.  Keep it at as low a temperature as possible, and don't expose it to warm air for more than the few minutes it takes to prepare.

Cut with a clean knife on a clean surface. Put it right back into the fridge at a very low temp.

Salt and acid, if you use them in your sauce, will provide some anti-bacterial benefits, but this is not foolproof.

People all over the world eat raw meat, but it's best to start with small amounts and see how your system handles it.  If you're a child/pregnant/old/sick, it's much less of a good idea.

A: One of the most important things is a full tang. The tang is an extension of the metal of the blade into the handle. In knives with a full tang, it goes all the way through the handle. This improves stability, control, and durability. Cheaper knives with partial tangs will have the handle break off over time.

In a chef's knife, you want a blade from 8 to 10 inches long, whichever is more comfortable.

You can also either get a forged or stamped blade. I suggest reading this article on the differences. To summarize, forged blades are softer, easier to sharpen, heavier, and have a bolster. Stamped blades are sharper, harder to sharpen, lighter, and have a welded on a bolster if any. With current manufacturing processes forged is not necessarily better than stamped. You should make your own decisions. All crap knives are stamped, but not all stamped knives are crap.

This brings me to one of the most important points: It must feel good in your hand. Don't buy an expensive knife just because it's expensive, or you recognize the name. Go to a store that will let you use the knife, Williams-Sonoma will do this. If you can, bring a carrot in your pocket and actually cut that in the store.

I'll do some research on steel quality and update this later.

A: IMO, this really would have greater lasting value with a single detailed answer instead of a poll.  Here's an annotated list of all the recommendations so far:

- 

On Food And Cooking (Harold McGee) is all science at a very detailed level, combining food chemistry and biology and explaining the interactions between ingredients and the mechanisms behind various cooking methods.  If you're looking for a pure science book, this is it.

- 

Good Eats: The Early Years and Good Eats 2: The Middle Years by Alton Brown.  His books are less technical/scientific than other authors and tend to focus more on application, making them more accessible to less hardcore cooks.

- 

CookWise (Shirley O. Corriher).  Written by a biochemist who has done a lot of consulting in the food industry.  This is more practical than McGee and more technical than Alton's books.  It also includes a ton of recipes, which can be a good thing or bad thing depending on your personal preferences. She has also written a baking version, BakeWise.

- 

Molecular Gastronomy (Hervé This, translated by Malcolm DeBevoise).  This is more of a niche book (about - surprise - Molecular Gastronomy) and as you might expect is a little French-centric.  What's really great about this book is how it debunks a lot of popular cooking myths with actual controlled experiments and hard data.  It wouldn't be my first choice to recommend to a Food Science newbie, but nevertheless a good one to add to your collection.

- 

The Fat Duck Cookbook (Heston Blumenthal).  Written by the founder of the Fat Duck Restaurant in the UK.  It's about the history of the Fat Duck and has a big recipe collection (from the restaurant, obviously) and a section at the end dedicated to food science.  This one's really for the advanced crowd as it involves a lot of molecular gastronomy, sous-vide and other esoterica - complex preparations, hard-to-find ingredients and unusual/expensive equipment.

- 

Cooking for Geeks (Jeff Potter) is, as the title implies, written to appeal to geeks, and as such has a certain amount of science but tends to be quite a bit more basic as far as actual cooking technique goes.  It's more "applied science."  Honestly, I wouldn't recommend this for very experienced cooks, but it's great for getting into cooking and gaining an enthusiasm for it (if you're kind of a geek).

- 

Cooking for Engineers is a web site, not a book, which has the obvious advantage of being free and searchable.  It's hard to really define this as its scope is so wide, but I will say that I've found it to be a surprisingly useful and detailed resource whenever I need to find out something quickly.

- 

What Einstein Told His Cook (Robert L. Wolke) is also mostly on the science itself but is written to be more accessible to the layperson.  As one reviewer on Amazon put it, Wolke is like the Bill Nye of Food Science.  One part science, two parts entertainment.  Another member has criticized it for making unproven claims (particularly on nutrition).

- 

The Cooks Illustrated annuals (from America's Test Kitchen) are less about the actual chemistry of food but do highlight a very scientific approach to cooking based on up-front research, experimentation and testing.  See David LeBauer's Answer for a more detailed explanation.

- 

The Science of Cooking (Peter Barham) focuses on the chemistry and physics of why some recipes work and some fail.

- 

khymos.org - on the surface it's about molecular gastronomy, but you'll find much of the science of cooking (e.g. the chemistry behind "working" flavour pairings etc) on there too.

- 

The Food Lab: Better Home Cooking Through Science (J. Kenji López-Alt) is a collection of detailed recipes, tips and explanations.  It's written to be easily accessible to a chef without much experience.

- 

Serious Eats is a website with both recipes and stories about how the recipes were developed (often with pictures of various attempts to compare how changing processes or ingredients affected things).  Especially see the 'techniques' section of The Food Lab

A: I used the method here before with good success: http://simplyrecipes.com/recipes/how_to_make_perfect_hard_boiled_eggs/

Basically you start with the eggs in the pan with cold water and bring the water to temperature, right when it reaches boiling you pull the heat back and let the eggs cook for 10 minutes.

You don't need a full on boil to hard boil the eggs.

A: It's as safe as any other raw meat consumption. It all comes down to quality beef and best practices when handling.

Two rules of thumb:

- Don't use steak from a supermarket. Use a butcher, preferably one you know and trust.

- Tell your butcher you intend to eat it raw.

A: This depends on which type of omelet you want to make, I'll run through the three types I know how to make.

The thick Waffle House style omelet (it's the kind that poofs up and is about an inch thick all the way around, IHOP also serves this omelet) is achieved by beating the eggs and incorporating a LOT of air in to the mixture.  Restaurants do this by using a milkshake machine to whip the eggs.  This type of omelet is easy to flip and cook, you just put enough butter to coat the pan, pour off any excess and then pour your egg mixture in to the pan (you are going to have to use an omelet pan for this).  Let the omelet cook while occasionally swirling the pan in a circular motion.  When the omelet has cooked most of the way through flip by either the toss in the air and catch in the pan method (not for beginners!) or the fork and spatula method (place spatula underneath and hold omelet onto the spatula with a fork on one corner). This will yield a thick fluffy omelet but it can be hard to work enough air into the eggs at home.

The second type is the French omelet and it doesn't require flipping at all. The french omelet is what you see in fine dining brunches if you see it at all in the U.S.  This omelette is made by mixing your eggs and pouring the mixture into a medium low heat pan.  As it cooks you take a fork and pull the cooked egg off the bottom and into the center of the omelet. Here is a video that goes more in depth.

The third type is what I call the grandma omelet.  It's made in a frying pan instead of an omelet pan and features a fairly flat egg wrapped around some cheese and other toppings.  For this omelet you need medium heat.  You should coat the pan with butter and pour in the egg mixture to a heated pan.  Let cook for a minute or two, then swirl the uncooked egg to the outside of the pan use a fork to lift the very edge to allow the uncooked egg to take the place of the cooked next to the pan.  Let the egg cook till desired doneness (side note: your omelet should and will have a small amount of uncooked but heated egg, it should be not runny, but still not be entirely set) and add toppings and fold over.  Then serve.

To address your scrambled egg problem, you need to let the egg set more before attempting the flip and lowering the heat on your pan will take care of the burning. Just remember that eggs are extremely delicate and respond better to lower heat and close attention.

Also the names are just the ones I use in my head, if somebody knows the correct terminology, let me know and I'll update to reflect it.

A: A tall thin pot is a hazard as it can be tipped over all too easily

The book says use lots of water to ensure even cooking and to stop the pasta sticking. But regular stirring will solve this problem too

Just use less water in a regular pot and feed the pasta into the boiling water. It takes about 30 seconds for long spaghetti to soften enough for it to fit into a regular pot. It cooks just fine WITHOUT breaking it up if you give it a quick stir after a minute, and then every couple of minutes or so

If you know your stove temperature and spaghetti type, it will only take a couple of goes to work out the least amount of water you can use. I use about 1 l of boiling water for three adult servings of spaghetti in a medium domestic pot. With the lid half on it is cooked to a firm bite point in less than 8 minutes, and the water just covers the spaghetti when finished

A: I can think of several reasons why you might salt beer:

- Salt is a natural flavor enhancer, so you'd be able to taste the hops and malt more

- Salt reduces perceived bitterness, so overly hopped beer would taste less bitter

- The salt crystals may nucleate bubble formation, giving the beer more head (briefly)

I've heard of it being done before, but never with good beer, only low quality swill.  But then, since there were more quality problems with cheap brews at the time, this was probably a lot more common.

A: Normal double-acting baking powder makes CO2 (thus giving a rising effect) in two ways: when it gets wet, and when it is heated.

Baking soda only makes CO2 when it gets wet.

From Wikipedia:

  

The acid in a baking powder can be
  either fast-acting or slow-acting.[6]
  A fast-acting acid reacts in a wet
  mixture with baking soda at room
  temperature, and a slow-acting acid
  will not react until heated in an
  oven. Baking powders that contain both
  fast- and slow-acting acids are double
  acting; those that contain only one
  acid are single acting. By providing a
  second rise in the oven, double-acting
  baking powders increase the
  reliability of baked goods by
  rendering the time elapsed between
  mixing and baking less critical, and
  this is the type most widely available
  to consumers today.

Q: Mint vs Peppermint

Are mint and peppermint the same thing?
Can we substitute one for the other.
How can we differentiate between mint and peppermint?

Q: Can a pizza stone be fixed after soap has been used to clean it?

We bought a pizza stone from a thrift store (so at least it was cheap). Unfortunately we cleaned it with soap before reading up on how to clean them. I know, rookie mistake.

Is there any way to fix it or should I just toss it out and consider it a lesson is researching new tools before messing with them? Obviously, I have no idea if the prior owner misused it so this might be a lesson in not buying used stoneware.

I haven't tried baking on it since using soap on it and the soap was only lightly used. I guess I should perform an experiment and find out if it makes things taste soapy.

Q: Fry onions and garlic before adding to the sauce?

I am making a tomato sauce for pasta but I am not sure whether to put the garlic and onions into the sauce raw or to sauté them first?

What would be the difference in the taste, does one have more depth?

Q: Why does frozen food still have an expiration date?

In a below 0&deg;C environment, no bacteria or fungi may grow. How could time "spoil" frozen food? 

edit: More concretely, I have lobsters and pizza dough that stayed really long in my freezer, are they completely useless now?

Q: Is there any cleaning utensil that is comparable to fingernails?

As you know,  sometimes the best scraping tool in the kitchen for cleaning up is your own fingernails.

The only thing I know of that compares in terms of effectiveness is metal, but you shouldn't use metal on many things,  such as cast iron or teflon pans.

Is there anything that can match the effectiveness of fingernails, but that isn't so hard it scratches like metal?

Q: What did European/American historical cooks do with the egg whites?

I do some historical cooking out of old cookbooks, like Amelia Simmons' American Cookery or The Art Of Cookery Made Plain and Easy.  One thing I've noticed is that these cookbooks use way more egg yolks than whites.  For example, I prepared an 18th century feast one night and ended up with 10 leftover egg whites in a jar.

This left me wondering, what did they do with the egg whites?  Given the extreme frugality of cooks centuries ago, which included using every scrap of stale bread and every bit of a pig including the oink, I find it impossible to believe that they were wasted.  They must have used them for something ... but that's not in the recipes I have.  So, questions:

- Are the cookbooks we have simply not representative of actual cookery of the 15th-18th century?  That is, are they purely posh cookery and as a result did actually waste the egg whites?

- Or were the egg whites used for some other purpose that required a lot of whites, maybe even a non-culinary purpose?

Help me solve this mystery.  Thanks!

Q: Shelf life of spices

The common wisdom I've heard is that dried herbs and spices:

- have a shelf-life of about a year or 2

- keep best in a cool dark place

- will release more flavor when crushed

That's fine but some spices are expensive. We have over different 50 jars on our spice rack and can't afford to replace them annually. Also, it's hard to believe that all herbs and spices are created equal.

What are some more specific guidelines regarding the shelf-life of herbs and spices? Which last longer? Which last less long? How much is shelf-life really affected by light or lack thereof? Do any actually become health hazards if left too long?

Q: Why not put knives in the dishwasher?

What is it about the dishwasher that harms knives?

The only reasons I've found are:

- You could get cut... I personally have a greater change of getting cut by trying to wash them by hand.

- The blades can damage the plastic-coated metal shelves... so I put them in the silverware-holder instead of on the rack (it's 100% plastic, no metal).

- The blade could get nicked by being knocked into other silverware... so put the blade by itself in a section of the silverware-holder in the DW.

Q: Does it matter what kind of sugar is used in baking?

The baking recipes I use specify many kinds of sugar e.g. caster, raw, white, soft etc.

Generally, I always just use raw sugar, mainly for convenience.

Does it really make a difference?

Q: Is it safe to eat a cooked steak that (briefly) touched the plate that was holding the raw meat?

So I just finished preparing a perfect-looking steak, and as per usual, my apartment's hypersensitive smoke detector decided to go off.  Not wanting to put the steak back into the pan, in one brilliant flash of boneheadedness, while I was scrambling for a rag to start whipping away the smoke, I dropped the steak in the only other vessel that was on the countertop - the same plate that was holding the meat before I cooked it.

I figured that since the inside has already been cooked, I could probably just sear the outside again on high heat for about 30 seconds to kill any surface bacteria that it might have picked up.  Which I did.  Doesn't really look any the worse for wear, but I haven't totally convinced myself that this is safe.

Anyone run into this scenario before and survived it?  Is there anything else I can do to guarantee safety without totally ruining the steak?

Q: Is there any truth to the idea that you shouldn't multiply seasonings when multiplying a recipe?

I often hear cooks discuss that idea that if you are multiplying, say, a recipe for 4 to be a for 32, that you shouldn't multiply some herbs, spices, or salt. I've never understood any reason why this should be true. Maybe something to do with surface area to volume ratios, or cooking times? Does anyone have a real explanation, or is this nonsense?

Q: Is "until juices run clear" a valid test for poultry doneness? Why or why not?

I've come across this particular recommendation many times in various recipes and cookbooks and probably even given it out myself once or twice.  Poultry is sufficiently cooked when the juices run clear, not red or pink.

In recent months and years, as I've grown more interested in and knowledgeable about the science of cooking, I've learned to be skeptical of such simplistic claims.  This one is repeated everywhere - even the Ontario Ministry of Health says it - but I've also run across various claims that it is dangerous advice.

What I'd like to know is this:

What does it actually mean - chemically or biologically speaking - when poultry juices run clear?  Is it actually a reliable indicator that the food is safe to eat?

P.S. I am quite well aware that the way one is supposed to test for doneness is to use a thermometer and ensure that the internal temperature has reached 165° F / 74° C.  I always do this, but thermometers can break, run out of battery, etc., so I think it is still helpful to know if the juice test is ever a viable alternative.  But most importantly I am interested in understanding what is happening to the meat that causes the juices to change colour, and under what other conditions this can happen.

Q: Theoretical: why there's no gradient of doneness in bread?

I was always wondering, why there's no gradient of doneness visible on the cuts of bigger breads. For example:

This one was made in the baking form, it has a thin visible crust, but after that the texture is absolutely uniform. How is that happens that temperature is distributed so evenly in the bread mass? Dough is not circulating like liquids do, so I'm puzzled. Could anybody shed the light on that?

Q: What difference does oxygen content of tea water make?

I've heard the advice that water should be boiled for tea only one--that when boiled it loses dissolved oxygen, and if there is insufficient oxygen in the water, the flavor of the tea is (somehow) affected. 

This doesn't seem to make sense to me. If the water loses oxygen when it is boiled, it would have lost it before tea ever touched it anyway.

Does this really make a difference, or is it just a commonly perpetuated kitchen myth? If there is one, what affect does the oxygen (or lack) have on the finished product?

Q: Why are salt and pepper the "classic" dinner table seasoning?

Is there a reason we use salt and pepper on so many dishes and they can be found in any kitchen table at dinner time? Does it have to do with their flavor synergies, or were they just more available "back in the day"?

Q: Does freezing butter or margarine change the properties?

I have a lot of butter & margarine and looking for ways to keep it for longer time.

Will freezing them change melting point, flavor, or anything that could be undesirable when cooking? 

Update:
We are now freezing our butter and margarine. It is a perfect solution!

Q: How can vegans alleviate the effects of spicy food?

It's well-known that if you eat spicy food, you can neutralize the flavor (and thus stop your mouth from burning like a forest fire) by drinking milk.  This is due to casein. Simply drinking water or something cold does not achieve the same effect.

But I'm vegan, so I don't drink milk. So what else can I consume (that's vegan) to quickly neutralize spicy flavors?  

This is not a duplicate of How can I wash down spicy food?, as the advice there concentrates on dairy products.

Q: What is the function of this shallow, 19-divoted, eared cast iron piece?

This piece was given to me a few years back by someone who picked it up at an estate sale. At the time I cleaned it up, re-seasoned it, and promptly forgot about it.

At first blush I thought maybe it was an escargot pan, but on further attention the divots seemed too shallow; each of the 19 holds approximately 1/2 t to 3/4 tbs (7-11 ml). There are no discernible markings on the reverse nor the ears  to give me anything to work with.

Someone said it might be an Æbleskiver pan, or a drop muffin pan, but in comparison with the samples I have on hand I don't believe it to be so. The divots on this pan are shallower and the bottoms are relatively flat (disc-shaped rather than hemispherical).

Does anyone one know what the purpose of this cast iron piece? Is it even a piece of cookware?

Q: Why do American supermarkets only carry lamb and not mutton?

When I go to the supermarket I do not see much, if any, mutton, just a lot of lamb.

So, I have postulated some possible explanations:

- mutton (the meat of a sheep) is being sold as "lamb",

- mutton tastes weird to Americans so all of it is exported,

- mutton tastes weird to Americans so it is turned into dog food,

- all adult sheep are only used for wool and are then retired and put out to pasture where they live out their retirement years playing pinochle and shuffleboard.

What's the explanation, why is there is so little mutton and so much lamb meat?

Q: Confused about cayenne pepper, chili powder and paprika

What is the difference between cayenne pepper, chilli powder, and paprika powder? They seem pretty similar. Are they interchangeable in recipes? Will it be a big difference if I substitute one for another?

Q: What is the value of the "Texas Crutch"?

In US barbecue tradition, the so-called Texas Crutch is the act of wrapping large cuts of meat like beef brisket or pork shoulder in aluminum foil or butchers' paper during the smoking process.

What is the value of the Texas Crutch? When should it be done? Are there negative effects?

Q: Why should one pre-heat an oven?

When cooking potatoes and bellpepper in an oven, it is highly recommended to pre-heat the oven. Why would it be a problem to put them in the oven while it is heating up ?

Thank you very much ! :)

Q: What is the best flour to use for pizza dough?

I've been making pizza dough and the recipe says to use "good quality flour" but I'm not sure what it means? Are there differences in quality between different types of flour and how can I tell?

Q: Slow cooking without a slow cooker

I frequently hear people telling me about how wonderful their slow cookers (AKA "crock pot") are.  In many cases they're right - meat that tends to come out tough in normal cooking comes out very tender from a slow cooker.

But do I really need a slow cooker to pull this off?  It seems like such a basic concept - simmer and/or steam at low heat.  What's so special about these devices?  For kitchens with very limited space, can a slow cooker be "synthesized" from other cooking implements, or is there really no substitute?

Q: What can I use for a Cr&#232;me br&#251;l&#233;e if I don't have a blow torch?

I've always wanted to make a Crème brûlée but I don't have a blow torch to burn the top with. Is there anything else I can use to get that nice crunchy caramel on top?

Q: When is a cooking oil not appropriate to substitute for another?

Frequently recipes call for a particular kind of oil for making use of certain characteristics (taste, heat tolerance, health, etc.). It's well known you can substitute cooking oils in most cases (vegetable oil for canola oil).

Are there circumstances in which it is not appropriate to substitute cooking oils?

Q: How long is it safe to marinate meat?

I started marinating some almost-thawed chicken and skirt steak in the refrigerator on Monday.  It's Saturday, and I still haven't gotten around to cooking the meat.  Is the meat still safe to cook and eat?

I made several different marinades consisting of lime juice, red wine vinegar, soy sauce, garlic, and pepper.  I'm not sure if that makes a difference.

Q: How to rest meat but not let it get too cold?

Having read this question I am persuaded that resting meat is good for its flavour. But if the meat has a good temperature straight after it's been cooked, it seems as though it will be too cold after resting it for a few minutes.

How do you rest meat in such a way that it is not too cold for eating?

Q: Is it safe to eat raw eggs?

I have a friend that is training for a marathon and he drinks 6 raw eggs before running (Yes, like Rocky) - is this safe?

Q: What is the correct water to pasta ratio?

I have heard one should use a lot of water when cooking pasta; how much water should I use?

Q: How do I butter popcorn without making it soggy?

I've tried buttering my popcorn in the past, and it always turns out inconsistent. A few pieces will be soaked with butter, and others have no butter on them at all.

Perhaps there is a way to get the butter flavoring without drizzling butter on after popping the kernels?

Q: Why should a stock be simmered and not boiled?

Anthony Bourdain's Les Halles cookbook says that a stock should NEVER be boiled, why is this?  Does the higher heat extract bitterness or something else undesirable?

It seems a little strange because the bones used to make the stock were previously roasted in a hot oven.

I've only made stock once, well I guess it was a broth (see this post) but would like to improve on my technique.

Q: How long will uncooked chicken keep in the fridge?

My wife is obsessed about not leaving uncooked meats in the fridge longer than a day (esp. Chicken). If we buy chicken breast and we're not going to use them the next day, she'll put them in the freezer. I always tell her it should be OK at least a week, but she thinks I'm crazy.  Can anyone give me some factual ammo I could use against her?

Q: What's the secret for Chinese fried rice?

I see a lot of recipes for fried rice, but never seem to be able to give the gorgeous lightly browned color (and therefore flavor) to my rice. 

This is before adding soy sauce or anything else. Is this a question of heat, or quantity of oil? How do they do it in the restaurant (e.g. young chow fried rice)?

Q: How warm must dough be in order to rise?

While making some focaccia this afternoon, my wife said, "sure the house is 'warm'; it'll be fine." One hour later, no rising. It may be worth noting that our house is 66F. So we stuck it in a warm oven and it rose just fine. It turned out fine, I'm just glad we weren't trying to get it done for a meal. 

So the question is, how warm does dough need to be to rise properly?

Q: What is the proper way to dispose of a kitchen knife?

How do you throw away a kitchen knife (or for that matter, any knife)? It seems extremely dangerous to just throw it in the dumpster, even if it's wrapped up real well.

Q: What does "bring to a simmer" mean?

First, a confession: I work in software, so I'm probably paying way too much attention to the state of liquid that is "a simmer". That written, I love to cook, and no recipe direction gives me more confusion, sadness, and googling than "bring to a simmer". Accept no substitute. I find this to be the most vague direction in all of culinary science, and it drives what's left of my organized mind insane.

So here's the setting. I'm making vichyssoise, because I'm intrigued by the possibility of making a dish that has no color at all. I've been instructed to "bring to a boil and simmer the soup for 35 minutes."

The internet is filled with unsatisfying and at times contradictory answers. My research yields a few prototypical examples:

- "Simmer" means "low or off position," suggesting basically no heat at all.

- To "simmer" is to heat to a temperature point just off boiling, generally acknowledged as somewhere around 95 degrees C or something like 195 degrees F.

- "Simmer" is something like a "soft boil," a vague state that appears to be between "not bubbling" and "roiling", but which by definition must boil in some way, since you know, it's bubbling.

Each of these examples mean fundamentally different things. As far as I can tell, a "simmer" is a phase transition whereby the suspension in question, whatever the soup, sauce, or solid (apparently you "simmer" bratwurst, you never boil it) may be, cooks in a way that only years of experience or training can identify. Hence, my question:

What does "simmer" mean? Does it differ per recipe or is it universally defined?

EDIT: Did a bad copy/paste job from another window.

Q: Can you candy salt?

Bear with me...

I'm working on a pretty amazing ice cream. It's Dulce de Leche, made the kind of scary traditional way of boiling cans of sweetened condensed milk, then mixing that with a custard and freezing it in my ice cream maker. As a recipe, it's getting there. I use the scraped seeds of a vanilla bean in the mix and swirl in unadulterated Dulce de Leche at the end. It's nearly perfect.

Now it needs a crunch.

I don't need to mix it in, a topping is fine. I want it salty; I'm thinking of how much I love a good salted caramel. I don't want it to melt salty in the ice cream or on the tongue. I want crunchy salt (Maldon) so encapsulated in hard caramel that you don't experience salt until after the crunch. 

My plan at this point is to make dry caramel as per the instructions of David Lebovitz (thanks Allison), mixing Maldon salt in at just the last possible second, much like making a praline, but with salt instead of nuts.

Since we're just speaking of salt and sugar, normally I would just jump into experimentation on something like this, but I'm down to my last few ounces of mail-order Maldon. I want some assurance that I'm on the right track before I risk the last of an ingredient particularly precious to me. It may be months before I see it again.

Can this possibly work?

Any other great ideas?

Q: Do pan "pores" exist, what are they, and what are their effects?

There are a number of common cooking lore techniques which revolve around the idea of "pores" in the surface of a pan.  Two of the ones I've heard most often:

(1) When heating a pan where sticking is a concern, one should wait until the pan is hot before adding oil/fat.  Supposedly the "pores" will close as the pan heats, leaving a flatter surface for the oil and less places where the food can get caught.  This is often cited for cooking on stainless steel, but sometimes for other materials as well.  (Some of the answers to this question, for example, cite this as a rationale for preheating pans before adding oil.)

(2) When seasoning cast iron (and sometimes other metals), one should be sure to heat the pan before applying oil.  Supposedly, the "pores" open up as the pan heats, allowing the oil/fat to penetrate the surface better and create a better seasoning.  (This has been mentioned a number of times here too, and it also is referenced on the Wikipedia page on seasoning pans, where preheating will "open the 'pores' of the pan.")

One obvious problem here is the contradictory logic of these claims: in the first case, one heats the pan to "close" the "pores," but in the second case, one heats the pan to "open" the "pores."  Which one is it?

I've heard these claims about "pores" and their very existence disputed.  At best, many commentators who seem to know something about properties of metals will say this is a strange shorthand term for the uneven surface of pans at the microscopic level.  (The end of this post and the discussion in comments, for example, contains some speculation along those lines.)

For years, I dismissed a lot of this discussion of "pores" as some sort of weird cooking lore myth.  For example, it's good to heat cast iron before seasoning to ensure it's thoroughly dry, regardless of the status of the "pores" in the metal.  And some people have done experiments claiming it doesn't matter whether you preheat a pan before adding oil to avoid sticking.

But I recently came upon a reference to these "pores" in Shirley Corriher's Cookwise, where she refers to the first claim I listed above: heating a pan to "close the pores" before adding oil/fat.  Alton Brown cites Corriher's claim too in a couple places, including in his Gear for Your Kitchen, where he refers to it as something you had to worry about to stop food from sticking in those ancient times before Teflon existed.  Corriher and Brown have been known to be wrong occasionally, but they generally are careful before citing random cooking lore.

So, are these "pores" real?  Do they expand or contract when heated?  Are their supposed culinary effects real?  Or is there some other mechanism or surface feature of metals that is being referenced here?

EDIT: Just to be clear, I'm hoping someone may be able to point to a more reliable discussion of what's going on from a reputable food science (or science in general) source. I have my own thoughts about what may be going on here based on my knowledge of thermodynamics, metallurgical crystalline structures, and general materials science. But in cursory searches, I haven't been able to find any solid discussions of these supposed "pores" based on actual scientific evidence.

Q: Why would you place potatoes on salt when baking in the oven?

Several of my recipe books call for baking potatoes on a layer of (rock) salt, e.g. I'm currently following one for gnocchi that has this very instruction. 

Searching yields many recipes, but I can't really find the "why" of it, nor what it technically accomplishes. Our own cooking.se site yields no relevant results either.

I can't quite imagine either what it would accomplish, except for perhaps salt the potatoes a bit; but that seems rather inefficient (why not add some salt later to the gnocchi dough?). Or perhaps it's meant to draw all fluids?

Why would you bake potatoes on a layer of (rock) salt? What does that do to the potatoes?

Q: Is it safe to boil water in a microwave?

Our electric kettle broke. So this morning I used the microwave to boil water for the first cup of coffee. 

Only thing is - the water in south Africa is not really the best of quality when you get it from the tap. I presume using a kettle kills of some of the bacteria that is still in the water.

So my question is: 

Is it safe to boil water in the microwave and then consuming it in coffee? What other complication might boiling water in the microwave bring other than from a bacterial point of view?

Q: Why did James Bond heat up the knife for his foie gras?

I was reading Fleming's Casino Royale and ran into the following curious detail, when describing James Bond's meal:

  

Later, as Bond was finishing his first straight whisky ‘on the rocks’ and was contemplating the paté de foie gras and cold langouste which the waiter had just laid out for him, the telephone rang.

  ...

  Bond shook himself, then he picked up his knife and selected the thickest of the pieces of hot toast.

  He dipped the knife into the glass of very hot water which stood beside the pot of Strasbourg porcelain and reminded himself to tip the waiter doubly for this particular meal.

Now, from the text, it seems he's about to put foie gras on a toast. As far as I'm aware it's quite soft and not hard to cut with the knife and spread.

What exactly is the point of dipping the knife into hot water then?

Q: Can one bake a cake with a cooked egg instead of a raw one?

This recent question about a person who wanted to bake a cake but only had a cooked egg left suggested me an even stupider one: is it possible to bake a cake with a cooked egg instead of a raw one? After all, the egg is going to end up cooked inside the cake anyway.

I imagine that it's going to be tricky to mix it with the dough, but with a hand mixer and a sufficient amount of violence everything is possible.

Or are the chemical processes of boiling an egg and cooking it inside the dough fundamentally different?

Q: Is it true that moldy jam/pickles are good to eat if you mix the mold into the rest of the mixture?

Everyone in my family says that when you see white mold on jam or pickled goods, you shouldn't bother with throwing away or removing the mold. All you have to do is to mix it back into the rest of what's in the pot. Here is an example:

I would like to know if it's a myth, because I feel something evolutionary in me that tells me simply mixing it back into the water is a bad idea.

Q: How to prevent liquids from spilling when pouring from measuring cup?

One problem I've had that I know others have too is when pouring from those Pyrex glass measuring cups. I just saw it happen in the Binging with Babish video:

Is there any good way to prevent this? I've tried pouring fast and slow, but it always seems to get liquid coming from the sides, thus making a mess.

Q: Can I make popcorn with any corn?

Up until today I only knew about one type of corn for popcorn. Searching for Peruvian food I found out that in Peru there are different "popcorn" varieties.

So that made me think: is it possible to make popcorn with just any variety of corn? If not, what properties do these corn varieties have that allow then to be popped and not any others?

Q: What happened to my egg?

I was making a small batch of chocolate cake and decided to flavor it with peppermint extract (as a substitute for vanilla extract). Foolish me added the extract directly to the eggs (not beaten). A small portion of the white became opaque, as if it had been cooked. What happened here?

Q: Cooling coffee rapidly without dilution

I like iced coffee when the weather is hot, and I like to drink it black (or nearly black) and undiluted. What is a good setup for cooling freshly brewed coffee quickly, without a lot of hassle? I'm talking about normal brewed coffee, not cold brew.

At Starbucks, they seem to put ice in your cup and then pour coffee directly over the ice. This works, but it uses a lot of ice, and by the time you're done drinking it, the melting ice has started to dilute the coffee. You also just can't fit very much coffee in a cup this way, because so much space is taken up by the ice.

I've tried putting a whole bunch of water in a big pan, then sticking a thin-walled metal cup in the water and pouring the coffee into the cup to cool. This cools the coffee rapidly at first, but then the cooling process gets extremely slow. I think part of the problem is that the conduction and convection processes are slow, and also that the water's heat capacity isn't super huge, compared to the heat of melting of ice.

I homebrew beer, and to cool my wort, I have a coil of copper tubing that I insert into the pot and run water through from a garden hose. This is pretty efficient, but works for a quantity orders of magnitude greater than a cup of coffee. It uses a huge amount of water.

Below is a method that I'm currently messing around with. The pan of water is to take the initial heat off of the coffee and make sure the coffee is cool enough so that I don't melt a hole through the plastic parts or release bad chemicals into the coffee from the plastic. I then put some ice in the ziplock bag and stick it in. After a few minutes I can take the cup out of the pan. The ice melts, and then I replace it with fresh ice. This setup seems not too bad, but still kind of slow and wasteful. It uses up a lot of ice. I can wash and reuse the bag.

Is there a better way to do this? I'm fantasizing about weird gadgets such as an aquarium pump sending pre-chilled vodka or ice water through a closed loop of tubing. Or maybe putting pieces of brass or copper in the freezer.

Q: Can my freezer be too cold?

The FDA recommends a freezer temperature of 0˚F (-18˚C). Warmer temperatures risk bacterial growth and quality problems. But what are the reasons not to set the freezer colder? My Bosch freezer can be set as low as -8˚F (-22˚C).

The only downsides I can see are increased electricity usage, increased thaw times during food preparation, and more wear on the freezer compressor. But advantages include colder ice cubes and faster freeze times for new items. Are there any other reasons not to set my freezer to the coldest setting?

Q: Digital recipes storage?

What works well for storing recipes digitally? Software and web solutions are both welcome. 

For me, the ideal solution would accept recipes from different sources (copy/paste, or email) in any format, and would automatically generate ingredient lists. It would be available from multiple devices (phone, iPad, computer) and would automatically prepare shopping lists.

Q: How long do you let a steak from the fridge come up to temperature, and when do you salt it?

Before cooking a steak, you're supposed to let it sit out at room temperature. You're also supposed to salt it. What is the proper timing for these steps? How long do you let the steak come up to temperature, and how long before you cook it do you salt it?

Q: What's the numbering system for spaghetti and does it matter?

When I lived in Italy some years ago I remember an Italian friend explaining the numbering system for spaghetti (perhaps also other long pasta). How spaghetti was sold in Italy with a number indicating its fineness. 

She told me that different kinds of recipes called for specific numbered spaghetti, if you wanted to be precise.

Can anyone else explain the numbering system for spaghetti better than my vague recollection? Do people in Italy really worry about matching the right numbered spaghetti with a given dish, and has anyone outside Italy encountered a recipe calling for a specific number spaghetti?

Q: What are the benefits of using a dedicated rice cooker, rather than just cooking rice in a pot?

For which reasons should I use a dedicated rice cooker, instead of cooking rice in a pot?

Q: Is there anything I can add to homemade bread to preserve it?

I love making our own bread - we rarely buy shop bought, but it tends to go off very quickly. Part of the appeal is that it doesn't have any "junk" in it - artificial preservatives - which I'm sure contributes to the lovely flavor. Is there anything natural I can add to it to stop it going moldy so fast?

Q: Dissolving cocoa powder in milk

I wanted to make a Stevia-sweetened chocolate milk so I tried mixing some unsweetened cocoa powder with the milk and stevia, but I found that the cocoa powder doesn't mix with the milk at all. It tends to float on top, and even with a lot of stirring and mixing back and forth between two glasses it was a lumpy mess.

Any techniques or natural additives I can use to help the powder dissolve more like Nestle Quick and the like?

Q: Why doesn't Bailey's go bad?

I realize it can go bad after a long time, but why does it take so much longer than other dairy products? Does it have to do with the alcohol content? If so, what is the process that is happening?

Q: My tea bags are expired, can I still use them?

This box of tea has an expiration date which has passed but I would like to know if I can still use it. What do you think?

Q: Is it normal to see flames inside my self-cleaning oven?

I spilled some sauce in the oven, so I decided to clean it today.

I wiped the bottom and glass door, but the rest of the stuff was crusty and stuck to the bottom of the oven.  I started the cycle and went about my business.

About 15 minutes later I hear a loud POP and saw little flames dancing at the bottom of the oven.  I freak out, turn off the self-cleaning feature, grab the fire extinguisher and try to open the door, which wouldn't open.
I later found out this was a safety feature because the temperature inside was close to 480 °C (900 °F).

So, were these little dancing flames and the resulting smoke safe and normal in the operation of the self-clean cycle?  If not, what can I do before running the cycle again to minimize flames and smoke?

Q: Does meat need to be washed before preparation?

I don't even remember where I have learned that, but I've always thought it common knowledge: Before a piece of meat gets seasoned, or malleted for tenderizing (sorry, don't know the English word for that), or marinated, or thrown into the pan, or ground, it should be first washed under the faucet, and then patted dry. When I think of it, it also makes sense to me, because the bacteria are always on the meat surface, never inside. So I don't think it is a vestige of the time one got bloodied cuts from the village butcher, but that it applies to the modern meat pieces sold on absorbent pads too. 

And then I read this question, which presumes patting (but doesn't mention washing). Most of the answers and comments seem to indicate that patting isn't always considered necessary, and there is no mention of washing the meat or of the dripping water from the washing. In fact, the answers and comments wouldn't make much sense if one assumes that the meat has been just washed. 

So is washing compulsory, is it optional but a good idea, is it plain useless, or does it even have disadvantages for the meat?

Q: How do Chinese restaurants tenderize their meat?

I eat at a lot of Chinese restaurants now and also while growing up. I often wondered how is it that the chicken, pork, and beef in dishes are always so tender. I can never replicate it when I cook.
What do the Chinese chefs use to tenderize their meat?

Q: What meats can I serve medium rare and why?

It is generally accepted that pork and chicken must be cooked completely (unless put through a strong curing process) while certain cuts of beef and lamb can be served on the rare side.  Why is this?

Are particular bacteria populations present in some animals but can't survive in others? What is the inherent differences between these animals that makes the difference when eating? How can I objectively decide if it is safe to eat something partially on the rare side that does not involve simply trusting the "common knowledge" of the more experienced.

(Don't get me wrong - I appreciate any and all advice that I get from anyone who is more experienced than I am in anything, but I'd like to know how they came to their conclusions).

Q: Why would I buy a rice cooker?

A friend of mine I'm getting an apartment with next year said that we should invest in a rice cooker. I'm fairly adept in the kitchen and don't come from a family that uses a rice cooker so I would default to cooking rice in a pot. He seemed to think that he would buy a rice cooker only for the convenience of cooking rice without worrying about it. Is convenience the only reason? Is it worth it to buy one for the other things (not rice) you can cook in it?

Q: How can 100% peanut butter have more protein than 100% peanuts

I am looking at:

- 100% peanut butter (no added salt, sugar, oils or anything else)

- 100% roasted peanuts (no added salt, sugar, oils or anything else)

When looking thought different sources, I can always notice the following:

- Peanut butter has more protein (as % of calories) than peanuts

example sources (I've looked through a dozen more, but please check others, maybe mine are not representative?):

http://www.waitrose.com/shop/ProductView-10317-10001-5588-Waitrose+LOVE+life+roasted+peanuts

http://shop.wholeearthfoods.com/collections/award-winning-peanut-butter/products/whole-earth-100-nuts-crunchy-peanut-butte-227-g

Why is this? If no ingredients are added, how is it possible for the macronutrients to change (as % of the calories). Different levels of roasting cannot be the reason because they should not change macronutrients disproportionally.

The only explanation I can think of is if in the process of making peanut butter, some part of the peanut is removed and that part contains a low protein amount. Some sources say that when peanut butter is made, the 'bitter heart of the peanut' is removed. Could that explain it?

If anyone has some insight I would be very interested to learn.

Q: Is butter ever the same after having been melted?

I was recently doing some experiments with butter which involved melting it gently in the microwave and pouring it into dishes. It seemed to me that after the butter had cooled and re-solidified, it wasn't really the same. The color was yellower, and the texture somewhat grainy.

Obviously if I microwave the butter a lot, the water will boil off. But I microwaved on low power, stirring frequently, hoping to minimize water loss.

Is there some change that happens to butter when it's melted and then cooled? Or am I imagining things?

Q: How can I tell if this is baking soda or powder?

Sure it'd be easier and cheap to just buy new soda and powder but I'm curious. 

I had a jar of either baking soda or powder. The marker with which I'd labeled it rubbed off during a house move and I do not recall which one it was. 

Is there an easy way to test if I have a jar of baking powder or soda?

Q: Can mold grow in vinegar?

I found this:

The bottle has a best by date of 2022 and was opened a few months ago.

Is that common that mold can grow in vinegar?

Q: How is rare steak made safe to eat?

The USDA recommends cooking many meats to an internal temperature of at least 145 °F (63 °C) to kill off pathogens. That usually works for me, but the big exception is steak. Whenever I try reaching at least 145 °F (63 °C), I always cook the steak to well-done, and online articles generally say rarer cuts have to dip well below 145 °F (63 °C).

Still, regular portions of rare steak hasn't ever gotten me sick. So what keeps the raw meat safe enough for us to eat rare? Are there things I do or should do to ensure safe raw meat (e.g. sourcing, preservation, preparation, and cooking)?

Q: Is panko just pretentious breadcrumbs?

My local grocery store actually currently sells panko crumbs for more money than beef mince, which to me is incredible. Is there any sort of justification for this or is it just expensive because it is foreign?

Maybe there is some culinary justification in using it that I'm unaware of, but to me its inflated price seems rather ridiculous for something that is still in essence breadcrumbs.

Q: Is there such a thing as a dish being bland from too many flavors?

My girlfriend has asked for my opinion on a few dishes that she has been experimenting with, and not being particularly well-versed in the language used to discuss food, I have been having trouble expressing my opinion on two specific dishes (namely, a stew using ground beef and a Thai curry with chicken).

I have eaten several different versions of both dishes over several months, so I have developed a pretty good sense of which versions of them I like the best. We have also tried similar dishes from local restaurants in order to have a common reference point. Generally, I think that the dishes taste fine, but sometimes I feel that they become "bland" (for lack of a better word) from too many spices.

What I mean is that sometimes when she prepares them she will use only a few specific spices or none at all and more fresh ingredients. To me, these versions taste the best. They have strong, distinct flavors, and I think that they taste more like the restaurant dishes that we've compared them to. However, she usually finds these versions under-seasoned, so she also experiments with adding lots of different spices. When she does this, she still isn't happy with the result but she says that the dishes taste more "complete" or more "harmonious" or just generally better. On the other hand, I think that these versions taste same-y or bland, which she doesn't understand since there are objectively more flavors in the dish. I have tried to describe it like the flavor equivalent of that color of brown you get when you mix all the paints together or if an orchestra just played all the instruments at once without regard to the timing.

To me, these versions sort of feel like filling in all the nooks and crannies of the flavor landscape to make the experience boring and flat. She says that I just don't understand flavor and that that's not a thing that happens. She says that adding more flavors complement and round-out the taste.

I am nowhere near as knowledgeable about food words as my girlfriend, and she also has a much more sensitive and discerning palate than I do. So it may be possible that I am just a bad food critic, but I would really like to understand my experience better and hopefully communicate it better to my girlfriend. My question is this: Is there such a thing as "the flavor equivalent of the color brown" in the sense that too many different flavors can make food sort of taste bland? If so, is there a technical way to describe that sensation?

Q: How should I prepare Risotto

I've been watching a lot of Hells Kitchen, and one of the signature dishes that Chef Ramsay has the chefs prepare is Risotto.  This seems like a simple enough dish but often times the seasoned chefs on the show get it wrong.  I'd like to try making this dish at home, so what is the technique I should use to ensure a tasty final result?

Q: Best meat replacements for a vegetarian/vegan?

Let's compile a list of vegetarian/vegan meat replacements.

Generic replacements:

- Seitan

- Tofu

- Tempeh

- Quorn

- Quorn Vegan Alternatives

- Paneer

- TVP

Commercial fake meats:

- Tofurky (Roasts, Sausages, Deli Slices)

- Lightlife

- Morningstar

- Worthington Foods

- Boca 

- Simple Truth (not exclusively vegetarian/vegan brand)

Similar products (nutrition):

- Beans

- Mushrooms (Portobello, oyster, trumpet, so many more…)

Q: What is the difference between sea salt and regular table salt?

I often sea sea salt sold in grinders to be used at the table, with comments about how it tastes better. What sort of taste differences would I notice using sea salt vs table salt, and what other differences might using one over the other impart?

I've also noticed people say that regular table salt is unhealthy, but that sea salt is somehow healthier for you.

Q: How to chill beer quickly?

We all know the situation.

The party is about to begin, it's really hot outside and we forget to put the beer (or similar drink) into the fridge...

What is your way to chill beer really fast?

Q: Tips for a small kitchen

I enjoy cooking but have a seriously small kitchen. There is only about 3 ft of work surface and that has kettle and toaster on it. I have a fair amount of shelf space but still need to larder goods and plates in another room. 

I find it almost impossible to keep the kitchen clean and tidy while cooking. With more complex dishes becoming almost impossible.

Are there any good techniques for cooking in a small space?

Q: Secret to takeaway curry

It's become something of a quest for me to find a curry recipe that tastes like the curry you get from an Indian Takeaway.  I'm getting close with the consistency, but can't get the taste right.

I won't list the various and numerous things that I've tried, but most of the variations that I've tried include:

tomatoes (I've tried fresh, tinned and purée), onion, yoghurt (although this doesn't seem to affect the flavour, so I stopped using it), cumin (tried seeds and ground), mustard seeds, coriander (fresh and ground), ginger (fresh and ground), fenugreek (fresh and ground), garam masala.

I'm pretty sure that I'm missing one or two ingredients that restaurants and takeaways use as a matter of course, but I haven't been able to find it.  Can anyone point me in the right direction?

EDIT:

I didn't realise that they differ, but I'm in the UK - so that's the takeaway I'm referring to.

I appreciate curry's vary in taste, but there seems to be an underlying taste to all the tomato based ones.  For the purpose of clarity, I'm trying to make a Rogan Josh.

Here's a sample of the sort of thing that I've been trying:

- 4 - 5 tomatoes, skinned and chopped

- 1 Onion chopped

- 1 lb Diced Lamb

- 2 - 3 Garlic cloves crushed and chopped

- 2 tablespoons of Garam Masalla

- 1 tablespoon turmeric

- 1 teaspoon mustard seeds

- 1 teaspoon cumin seeds

- 1 tablespoon ground coriander

- 1 tablespoon ground cumin

- 1 inch root ginger grated

- Oil

Slowly heat the mustard and cumin seeds until the pop, then add the onions and garlic and fry gently until soft.
Add the meat and up the heat to cook.  After about 10 mins add the other ingredients and leave for an hour or until the tomatoes have turned into sauce.

Another thing that I've tried is puréeing the garlic, spices, tomatoes and ginger and adding that after the onions are cooked.  This helps with the consistency, but doesn't really affect the taste.

EDIT:

The best single answer that I had to this was cream.  However, cloves did also make a difference.  I still haven't managed to get the takeaway flavour, but thanks for all the suggestions.

Q: Induction range vs gas

I have a kitchen remodel (including range/oven) planned. Currently we have a "vintage" electric stove. I am deciding between gas or induction.

I liked gas in a previous house. However, I have reservations about combustion gases and unhealthy air quality. I heard great things about induction, but I had reservations about replacing cookware (before my budget increased). I haven't used induction.

Update

A friend used induction, and she hated it at first, but then liked it. Induction ranges are not common in the U.S.

If you are a cook, and have used an induction system, "Is it responsive?", "Is temperature controllable?", "Is it durable and easy to clean?".

I want to test drive an induction range, so I'll check with local shops.

Another Update

Somewhere among my bookmarks is an article about particulate matter and CO generated by gas ranges.

I like things I've read about induction ranges. Efficiency, safety, control, etc.

Q: How do I stop my fire alarm from going off when I cook?

My fire alarm always goes off when I cook, even when the food is not burning. Because of this, I have never been able to keep batteries in my fire alarms.  How can I stop this from happening?

Q: What can you surmise about coffee beans that have oil on them at the time of purchase?

I find myself favoring the purchase of coffee beans that have visible oil on them.  My inference was that this bean had some extra flavor or awesomeness.

Am I right, are beans 'better' if they are oily, or more simply, what does that mean about the flavor profile of the bean?

Q: Why stretch and fold vs traditional kneading of bread dough?

Many recent recipes I'm seeing for bread, this one for example, are using a strech and fold technique rather than a traditional knead.  Whats the advantage here?  It sure seems to work, but I'm not sure why it works well with so much less work.

Q: What are the different applications for differently shaped wooden spoons?

A while back I got a set of wooden spoons that contained 5 differently shaped wooden spoons. Take a look at the following photo to see the different shapes.

I have mainly been using wooden spoon #1 because that is typically the shape I am most familiar with when I think of a wooden spoon. I have yet to figure out what the other wooden spoons can be used for. 

Are there any specific applications that each shape excel at?

Q: Why are there spikes growing out of my ice tray?

This is sooo weird. As is my habit, I filled my ice trays with cold tap water and let them settle on the counter for 15 minutes or so. Then I put them in the freezer. A few hours later I opened the freezer and found that the ice had these nail-like projections. The longest was maybe 3 inches long. They weren't touching anything. What the heck happened? Notice the baby dude in the first picture? WTF?

Q: How does a Miracle Thaw work?

Miracle Thaws are utensils for rapidly thawing foods. Put an ice cube on one and it melts before your eyes, yet the whole thing stays cool to the touch. How do they work?

(Inspired by this question: Utensil to thaw meat)

Q: Why does my glaze soak into my doughnuts?

I fried up some yummy doughnuts and let them cool. Shortly after glazing them, I noticed that the glaze has soaked into the doughnuts. How can I prevent this from happening?

Q: What is the white dust on red grapes?

I bought some red grapes, and they have a thin layer of white dust on them. What is this? It has no flavor and seems to be harmless, but sources differ on what exactly it is, so if anyone has an authoritative source, I'd be interested to find out.

Q: Can I learn to like wine?

Wine, especially combined with the right food, seems to be a great deal among gourmets. I'd love to enjoy those highly-praised combinations too, but unfortunately, although I'm 22 years old by now, I still don't like the taste of wine at all.

Can I learn to like wine? Are there any methods or tips how to train my sense of taste? Or is it a process that will simply take its time, and the only thing I can do is "waiting to become older"?

Q: What should I use for old recipes that call for 'buttermilk'?

Old-school buttermilk is the milk left after churning butter and is not today's 'cultured buttermilk'.

A recent answer to the question about what to use for 'sweet milk' mentions :

  

Buttermilk was what was left after the soured milk had been churned and the butter removed. There were always small particles of butter left in it

For years I had assumed that skim milk was the best substitute (as it's milk with the fat removed), but this suggests that it's both soured and has a little bit of fat left (but not even close to homogenized).

Is there something roughly equivalent available today, or something that I can make to approximate old-school buttermilk without churning my own butter**?

** It also hints that today's 'sweet cream' butter is not the same as butter in the old days.  I don't know if 'cultured butter' might be closer, or a blend of cultured & sweet cream butters.

Clarification: I am not looking for a replacement for modern 'cultured buttermilk'.  I'm quite aware of the substitution for today's buttermilk when baking of using milk plus an acidic liquid, or of thinning yogurt.  It's possible that this is also a good substitute for historical buttermilk; if so, please acknowledge in your answer that you're aware that they're different.  If you've spent time on a dairy farm, please let us know if the dairy was using fresh or soured milk for their butter (because everything that I've found said that it was made with soured milk historically).

From The Settlement Cookbook (1945), in the discussion of dairy products (pp. 45-56):

  

Cream is the fat that rises to the top of the milk if left standing.  For Whipping Cream, see page 498.
  Skim Milk is the milk left over after cream has been skimmed off.
  Buttermilk is the liquid left over after cream is churned into butter.
  ...
  Cultured Sour Cream and Buttermilk may be obtained from most milk dealers.

In this case, it doesn't specifically mention that soured milk is used, but I've seen other references from the late 1800s to early 1900s that said that butter was made from soured milk.  (and one of them would occasionally say 'new milk' instead of 'milk', suggesting that their use of 'milk' was sour milk or buttermilk.   I suspect that before refrigeration, it's quite possible that milk left to separate into cream would sour by the time it was finished.  They do mention in that same section:

  

Sour Milk is valuable in cooking and may be obtained by keeping milk (preferably raw milk) undisturbed in a shallow covered pan at a temperature of 90° to 100°F. until it becomes thick and clabbered.  If it sours too slowly it becomes bitter.

Q: What is this green, bulbous, leafy vegetable?

I recently received a vegetable, looking like a big green beet with a thick skin. As I don't know what it is, I can't look for appropriate recipes on the internet. The Google reverse image search couldn't help either.

Here is the thing:

Q: Is there a Scoville scale for "coldness" (e.g. mint)?

Certain foods taste hot like peppers and are measured by the Scoville scale. Some foods also taste "cold". Mint is the main one that comes to mind. Is there a similar scale for this kind of taste?

If there isn't (or maybe even if there is) is there any reason we couldn't just use the same methodology as we do with the Scoville scale?

Q: Can I make a neverending Soup in an instantpot?

I'm a truck driver, and I have a minifridge, a microwave, an Instant pot, and an electric water kettle on the truck with me. I've been experimenting with various ideas on how to best feed myself. So here's my version of the question. If I cook the soup with some veggies and meat, scoop some out to eat, and seal the lid and keep the instant pot set to "Keep Warm" (145-175 degrees F) will it be safe? It stays sealed except when I'm dishing out a new dish, it stays above 140 degrees, and each time I add new stuff to it, I'll re-cook it, but will whatever I've left in there still be good?

I was just reading through this question: Never ending soup; is it actually safe? and I had a modified version of it to ask, but since that question hasn't been active in over a year, I thought I would make a new question.

Q: What is the purpose of oiling a wooden chopping board?

I recently bought a wooden chopping board to replace my plastic one. In the course of my research I read that it's important to regularly rub mineral oil in (some people say once a week, some say once a month). It's said that it "protects" it and makes it last longer, but what is the oil actually doing?

Q: Why do my mini pizzas have microwave trays?

I have these frozen mini pizzas which come with a silver piece of cardboard (see image at the end). I disregarded it at first, but then read the cooking instructions and it says that it is a microwave tray, which you put between the pizza and the plate.

What is the purpose of this silver cardboard tray? Does it make any difference, or would the pizza be identical without it?

Q: Why would plant-based cookie dough packaging say "Do not consume raw dough"?

I just bought some Kroger Simple Truth Plant-Based Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough.

I always prefer to eat raw dough rather than bake the cookies.

But this packaging says:

DO NOT CONSUME RAW DOUGH

Why not?

As a kid, I'd always heard a recommendation not to eat raw cookie dough that had eggs in it (and even then, I'm not sure what the reasoning is or what the risks are, but I suppose probably something related to salmonella).

But when the ingredients are plant-based (no eggs, no dairy, no animal products of any kind), what are the possible unwanted effects from eating raw dough?

Q: Substitute for saltpetre

I was reading a recipe for Okra Soup with Goat Meat and was surprised to find "saltpetre" on the ingredient list, with no quantity listed. Having never seen this as an ingredient in anything other than gunpowder, I did a little research to try and figure out what was going on.

According to Wikipedia, it is:

widely used as a thickening agent in soups and stews such as okra soup and isi ewu. It is also used to soften food and reduce cooking time when boiling beans and tough meat.

This makes sense to me because the recipe I'm looking at is West African (Ghanaian), though the author of the recipe talks about using it to make the okra more "slimy", which I'm less sure about.

What concerned me is that the sites selling spices which had this available were plastered with warning that this needs to be carefully measured to the gram, and care must be taken to consume only safe amounts. (Example: "This ingredient must be measured with a gram scale and used with extreme caution.")

So now that I've succeeded in scaring myself out of using this ingredient – what can I substitute for the saltpetre in a Ghanaian-style okra stew? Will salt plus a thickener, such as a roux or cornstarch, achieve the same effect? And should it be added later than the saltpetre was, which was with the okra in the initial boil?

(And if anyone can shed light on what effect it might have on the okra's "sliminess", I would appreciate that – I've never heard of people trying to make boiled okra more slimy as this recipe implies!)

Q: How should I cook bacon in an oven?

I've heard of people cooking bacon in an oven by laying the strips out on a cookie sheet. When using this method, how long should I cook the bacon for, and at what temperature?

Q: What is the internal temperature a steak should be cooked to for Rare/Medium Rare/Medium/Well?

I'd like to know when to take my steaks off the grill and please everybody.

Q: What are some good substitutes for salt for those on low sodium diets?

I try to keep my sodium intake fairly low to ensure that my blood pressure doesn't get too high.

Salt is such a common part of cooking, and it's especially difficult to cook Asian-style food without a lot of salt due to its reliance on salty sauces such as soy sauce, oyster sauce, etc.

I have tried salt substitutes such as potassium chloride but that can be particularly nasty on the palate, giving the food a chemical taste.

What are some good substitutes for salt in food?

Q: Good ways to store coffee?

What are some key points to store coffee to preserve freshness?

Different methods for whole beans vs ground?

Q: Why isn't it safe to eat raw chicken?

Why is safe to eat some raw or undercooked meats like beef and fish (assuming you're careful), but not chicken? I know that there are bacteria in chicken, but are they in all chicken, or just so many that the only safe thing to do is assume they're all bad? If not, is there any way to get non-dangerous chicken (for say -- chicken sushi)?

Q: How do cooks prepare risotto in a restaurant?

I'm not looking for a Risotto recipe. I make a pretty nice risotto, thank you very much.

But, making a risotto takes about 20 minutes.   It seems unreasonable to me that a cook would start from scratch in a restaurant.  

So how do they do it?  There must be some pre-cooking involved, and then it's finished off when ordered in about 5 minutes.

Q: How do I make paneer firm and chewy like in the restaurant?

Recently I've taken a liking to Indian cuisine and am trying to replicate the curry experience at home. The biggest problem I'm having is with the paneer cheese, which is used in curries I like the most.

When I eat out at an Indian restaurant, their paneer is firm, squishy and kind of 'squeaky' on the teeth. The one I make is always crumbly and falls apart in the curry. I've tried all kinds of recipes from the net; at one point I even asked a friendly Indian chef about it and he told me that they buy the milk directly from a farmer, and that the low-fat, UHT shop variety just won't do.

I tried reinforcing 2% milk with cream before as per the advice of one recipe or other, but not "country-milk" so I got some milk from a friend who keeps cows and the result wasn't much better. The cheese still won't stick together and keeps falling apart, you just can't feel the chewy, curry-flavored bits of paneer at all, so it's pretty useless to even bother with it. Help please?

A: The short answer for your substitution question is -- add some baking soda, i.e., sodium bicarbonate.

How much?  I don't know, as the recipe doesn't even give a hint.  Start out with a little -- maybe a half-teaspoon?  You can always add more, but it can give an unpleasant aftertaste.  With a little bit of baking soda, producing an alkaline solution, the okra will get a bit more green and the meat may be slightly tenderized.  As you increase the concentration of baking soda, the okra will likely get mushy and "slimy."  Baking soda often is described as giving a "soapy" consistency to food when used in excess.

As to the bit about "saltpetre," it's almost certainly a mistranslation (apparently a very common one in West Africa).

This was quite an interesting business to sort out.  I'm no expert in the cuisine of Ghana or West Africa, so if anything I will say here looks wrong to someone with first-hand knowledge, please correct me.

If you care about the logic and sources I'm using to justify all of this, details are below.

My guess is that the confusion came out of the fact that these West African salts are often known in English as "potash."  Another traditional name for "saltpetre" is "nitrate of potash," which would be the old name for potassium nitrate (itself often a component of "potash" when used as fertilizer).  While these salts are very common in West Africa and are known in English as either "potash" or "saltpetre," the largest composition is generally sodium (bi)carbonate and/or potassium (bi)carbonate.  There's no potassium nitrate involved at all.  As you rightly identified, potassium nitrate is a curing salt, which needs to be used in precise quantities, generally to preserve meat.

Potassium nitrate, however, is NOT generally known for making vegetables "slimy," nor (as the Wikipedia page claims) for reducing bean cooking time or to soften tough meat.  I was suspicious of the Wikipedia claim and tracked it back to its first appearance in the article in 2012, and it's never really been properly sourced.  A quick search of Google Books demonstrates that most of these claims similar to Wikipedia only appear in books and sources since 2012, probably imitating the Wikipedia article.

(I'm sure I've gone on about this before, but never believe anything on Wikipedia unless you've followed the sources and verified.  It's a great resource, but information must be verified and properly sourced, as anyone can edit it.)

Furthermore, an alkaline tenderizing agent like sodium (and/or potassium) carbonate or bicarbonate immediately occurred to me as better fitting the culinary description from Wikipedia.  For example, baking soda is well-known to speed the cooking of beans.

Anyhow, what we're really talking about here is a "salt" that is used in West Africa, which is not sodium chloride.  It goes under a lot of different regional names: kanwe, kanwa, akanwu, kuan, natron, trona, nikkih, kilbu, sel gemme, and limestone are a few, in addition to potash and (quite inaccurately) saltpetre.  Traditionally, it is often a harvested "salt" from regional lake deposits, but there are a variety of other preparations and methods for making it, depending on the country/region.

So, how do I know the Wikipedia article is wrong and what is requested in this recipe?  Well, first let's begin with a study done in Ghana itself by USAID, which mentions this specific dish on page 38:

Fresh okro soup: Prepared similar to light soup but with added chopped
boiled okro with kanwe (saltpeter).

Here we have confirmation that the local name for this salt is "kanwe," but it is also referenced as "saltpeter."

Later in this study (p. 167), we are told that "saltpeter" is "kanwa" and that it speeds up the cooking of beans (just as the Wikipedia article tells us).

Beans are an important part of the IYC diet and mothers use
sal[t]petre (kanwa) to speed the cooking process. It is not known
whether saltpeter has any adverse health effects and this needs to be
investigated.

So, we're looking for kanwa/kanwe.  And aside from Wikipedia and a few sources that seem to mimic that source since 2012, I haven't found any sources that connect this to potassium nitrate.  Most commonly, despite the misnomer of "saltpetre," academia studies that have analyzed such salts have found they contain "potash" instead, or potassium (bi)carbonate.

(Technical note: the carbonates of sodium and potassium have similar chemical properties to the bicarbonates but are stronger, i.e., have a more alkaline effect.  They'll also do similar things to food.)

For confirmation of what "kanwa" is, we can look to this article:

Sariem et al., “Acute toxicity studies and characterisation of local dietary salts in Nigeria” (2016)

Local dietary salts in various forms are used in Nigeria as food
seasoning and food additives. Potash is commonly consumed in Nigeria
especially in the northern parts where two forms are commonly
available: kanwa and shem. Kanwa, also known as natron, a
sesquicarbonate or hydrated carbonate of sodium (Alawa et al., 2012).
Kanwa is also known scientifically as trona (Omajali et al., 2010).
Okehie-Offoha in 1996 however described kanwa as a potassium salt in
combination with other salts. Kanwa is a base with a pH of 8.9. It
contains 10% sodium as bicarbonates, 70% potassium, 0.33% calcium and
8% phosphorous (Yakasai et al., 2004).

[…]

Kanwa is used to soften food and reduce cooking time when boiling
beans and tough meat. Kanwa is also an essential ingredient in making
special porridges such as kunun kanwa literally translated from the
Hausa language as 'saltpetre porridge' (Okehie-Offoha, 1996).

I'm just going to note this last bit is very similar to the sentence following the quotation from the Wikipedia article given in the question, which states:

It is also used to soften food and reduce cooking time when boiling beans and tough meat. Saltpetre is also an essential ingredient in making special porridges,
such as kunun kanwa literally translated from the Hausa language as
"saltpetre porridge".

Both of these cite the same source.  I'd like to believe Sariem et al. actually went and found this source and verified what it said.  But it unfortunately looks like they may have simply plagiarized a couple sentences from Wikipedia here, as this passage has been on Wikipedia since 2012, and their article didn't appear until 4 years later.

(Again, a warning about the dangers of Wikipedia.  Even scholars overuse it without checking.)

Yet, as we know from the USAID report above, "kanwa" is apparently sometimes known as "saltpeter," even though as discussed in the Sariem et al. quotation above, we also know it's more correctly a form of potash, i.e., a potassium bicarbonate salt, along with sodium bicarbonate and some other minor components.  ("Sesquicarbonate" and "hydrated carbonated" are synonyms for "bicarbonate.")

Sariem et al. is useful for summarizing a bit of the literature on the composition of kanwa.  One final source I'll bring into the mix points out the regional variability of these salts:

Ngoualem et al., “Variability and Functionalities of Salts Used in Traditional African Food Preparations“ (2019)

Common edible salt, a natural evaporite which can be obtained from
sea, underground ore or natural brine, and containing at least 97% of
sodium chloride (NaCl), is the main salt used in food preparations,
with the only objective to improve the taste of foods. Out of that,
other specific salts which have been reported to be used in food
preparations are Lakes’ deposits, plant-based ashes, their filtrates
and evaporites of these filtrates. Their chemical composition shows
that they are mixture of salts and thus, made of cations and anions,
major cation being generally sodium or potassium whereas major anions are generally carbonates, bicarbonates, sulfates and
chlorides. Their usages have mostly been reported in African
countries (Nigeria, Niger, Chad, Cameroon, Ghana, Kenya, Burkina
Faso, Uganda, Tanzania, Sudan, Central and East African countries)
[…].

In Africa, they have been reported to be used to reduce the cooking
time of legumes, vegetables and cereals, to improve the green color of
vegetables as well as to increase the viscosity of sticky ones, as
emulsifier, and as flavor enhancers. These functionalities have been
attributed to the alkalinity of their aqueous solutions. Since the
solutions of Traditional Salts are alkaline, they can also be named
Traditional Alkaline Salts (TAS).

To summarize the important bits from this last quotation:

- We might have various mixtures in these salts of sodium and potassium compounds, namely carbonates, bicarbonates, sulfates, and chlorides.  Note, however, the conspicuous absence of nitrates.  There's no potassium nitrate here.

- These salts are found in Ghana (as well as many other places).

- They are used to have the effects both listed in Wikipedia (incorrectly attributed to saltpeter/potassium nitrate) and in the recipe.  They reduce cooking time of legumes, and they increase the viscosity of sticky ones (hence, I suppose, the "slime").

- The main aspect that makes these salts useful in cooking is their alkalinity in solution.

Hence, I finally arrive again at my initial recommendation: you need an alkaline solution.  The most common item found in kitchens that will give you an approximation for this recipe is sodium bicarbonate, i.e., baking soda.

Lastly, I will note that the composition of these salts appears to vary significantly by region in Africa, but potassium (bi)carbonate seems to often be the most prominent ingredient, hence the alternative English name of "potash" for these salts.  If you wanted a more authentic option, you could do an internet search for "kanwa" and find all sorts of interesting crystals people are selling.  Or (if you're less adventurous) you could perhaps buy some pure potassium bicarbonate, then mix in a smaller proportion of baking soda, and you'll be most of the way there to something similar to the traditional West African culinary salts.

That said, I don't really think the important part here is the flavor from the salt, other than maybe some trace minerals (which likely vary significantly by source/region).  Thus, baking soda will probably do in a pinch, and hopefully give you some nice slimy okra.

A: I would say no. The function of the egg in the cake is to go in raw, mix with the other stuff, and once the raw egg has penetrated and coated the other ingredients thoroughly, bind it all together with that bouncy, sticky solidified eggy property which comes into existence as the egg cooks. 

Cooking the egg first all by itself, then adding to a cake would be like drying some crazy glue, then grinding up that hardened crust and putting the resulting powder between two things you want to stick together. The gluing action is all over when the glue has dried.

A: The piece of cardboard is a microwave browning element.

Ordinarily, most of the heating energy in a microwave is absorbed by water in the food. The result is similar to steaming. The material on the cardboard is designed to absorb microwave radiation and convert it into heat, attaining a higher temperature than boiling water would reach, to allow the bottom of the pizza to crisp up a little and keep it from getting soggy.

A: Unless there is good reason to assume it is not mold/bacterial colonization, but some other precipitate as explained in other answers:

There is no scientific reason at all to assume that such a method is safe, certainly not for any random pickle made by any random recipe spoiled by any random white mold found in any random environment. While some very acidic pickling liquids might kill the mold or bacteria, it will not deactivate existing aflatoxins or bacterial toxins.

A: Sauteing onions:

- Softens them, most people prefer not to run into raw onions in their sauce. Onions will cook in a sauce, but very slowly, so frying them before makes sure they will be soft even if your sauce has a fast cooking time

- Releases sugars, making them taste sweeter

- Reduces the onion's harshness

- Browning the onions creates flavor

Sauteing garlic: garlic needs very little sauteing, far less than onion. It's very easy to overdo it, generally a minute or two is all it needs, too much and it burns and adds off flavors.

- Softens the garlic although it will cook in the sauce much faster than onion

- Releases the flavors

- Reduces harsh notes. The more you saute it the mellower the flavor but the less garlic-y it becomes. I often add garlic to my saute in 2 stages so I get both the mellowness and the edginess in my dish. It does mean adding more garlic overall, but it's worth it

So you get more depth of flavor, better flavor and texture sauteing them.

A: It is not a problem to put whole potatoes for roasting in the oven while it heats up.  In fact, it's a good idea.

However, if you are following instructions or cooking times written for a preheated oven, you will need to add about 10 minutes to the cooking time (depending on how fast your oven heats up).  

The rule of thumb I use for this is to add 1/2 of the time my oven takes to heat up to the recommended cooking time.  Since my oven takes about 20 minutes to get to 400F, that's 10 minutes.

However, regarding bell peppers it depends on why you are putting them in the oven.  If you're talking stuffed bell peppers, then it's fine to start with a cold oven.  However, if you are trying to char the peppers to remove the skins, you need to start with an oven that's as hot as possible, otherwise you will cook the peppers to mush before the skins are charred (and, ideally, use the broiler).

A: Peppermint is a hybrid breed of two plants belonging to the mint genus, spearmint and watermint. In my experience, when 'mint' is referred to by itself without any other descriptors, it usually refers to the spearmint flavour people are used to (from things like green restaurant mint candies, toothpaste, etc). Peppermint will be denoted as peppermint. However, as mentioned in the comments, this may vary based on region.

There is a significant difference in taste between peppermint and spearmint; I find peppermint to have a much more intense flavour. Scientifically, peppermint gets its flavour from its high menthol content, whereas as spearmint owes its flavour to the compound L-carvone. Substitution will not replicate the same flavour as the original.

Source for science related parts: 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mentha

A: Frozen food does spoil over time. Much slower than even just thawed, sure, but don't expect that something that would spoil within few days at just above 0°C will last with unchanged quality for years at -18°C (even if it were always at that temperature). There are also physical and chemical effects contributing to spoiling of food.

- 

Freezing refers to water forming ice. The spoiling of the aqueous parts (water and the stuff dissolved in water) is extremely slowed down due to the phase change liquid -> frozen.  

But food is not only water, and e.g. lipids (fatty, oily) parts are much less affected by the lower temperature. The lipids in food are are often mixtures of fats and oils that get slushy and finally more and more still in the temperature range we're talking about. E.g. squalene (which is fairly abundant in some fish oils) has a freezing point of -75 °C - having such components helps keeping the mixture from freezing (crystallizing).

Lipids can go rancid by hydrolysis and/or oxidation. This is slower in cold temperatures (as a rule of thumb, for lipid oxidation I'd expect maybe an order of magnitude slower for 10 °C lower storage temp. So 3 weeks instead of 2 days. If you manage consistently -18 °C instead of +2 °C, maybe several months, but not years. Gas-tight containers help against oxidation by oxygen from the air - but it is extremely difficult to seal food really air-tight at a time scale of several months.
Hydrolysis would be hampered by forming of ice, so the prediction of the time scale isn't that straightforward. In particular glycerol (e.g. from hydrolysis of lipid) will act as anti-freeze and keep some tiny fraction of the water in a liquid phase where it can help hydrolyze further lipids.

Fish need to have lipids that stay suitably liquid at water temperature (i.e. for some fish even around 0 °C). Thus, while tallow is more-or-less solid already at +20°C, fish oils are liquid at close to 0°C. Which means that at the same -18 °C both oxidation and hydrolysis will be faster in cold water fatty fish than in the meat of warm-blooded animals.

Health considerations: hydrolysis is affects the sensory quality, but AFAIK does not have health concerns (triglycerides are anyways hydrolyzed in our lipid metabolism).

Oxidation of (unsaturated) fatty acids OTOH leads to so-called lipid oxidation products (duh!). They include mutagenic and carcinogenic substances. BUT: this is also something that happens inside our body during lipid metabolism, and sufficiently often that we do keep detoxification pathways up and running. We includes the animals of whom we're discussing the meat here. This detoxification uses antioxidants (that's why they are healthy), and in the cells they are stored together with antioxidants (e.g. vitamin E). Before lipid oxidation (and the formation of potentially unhealthy components) starts, the antioxidants are used up - that's their biochemical purpose. In terms of health effects, in this stage, we're not getting as much of the particularly healthy antioxidants out of this food as we'd have gotten by eating that meat earlier, but  also there aren't yet particularly unhealthy compounds in it.

All in all, I'd say also the oxidative rancidity is not very concering in this scenario: 

- we're quite good at detecting rancid fat (also from hydrolysis) so the risk of unknowingly eating dangerous amounts is low.  

- The lack of antioxidants from this piece of food can quite easily be compensated by adding some more fresh veggies or nuts to the meal. In addition, the potentially toxic effects from possible lipid oxidation products can to a certain extent be counteracted by eating yet more antioxidants. Add another big spoon of broccoli with some fresh nuts or almonds to your meal. 

- If you're frying meat/fish in oil, that may be a far more important source of lipid oxidation products in your diet.

- 

Volatile substances (which are important for smell/"taste") also have lower vapor pressure but it's still above zero. Getting a container gas tight at a time scale of months is difficult. In the end, after a year or so in the freezer is is quite possible that all the food acquires the average freezer smell/taste.  

Health effects well, we don't know what substances float around in your freezer. But the total amount you eat probably doesn't differ much whether you let one piece of meat "soak" in that atmosphere for a years vs. 12 times eating a piece of meat that was in there for a month. 

- 

If you flash-freeze food, there will be tiny ice crystals, but given enough time they will grow (depending on temperature again, the colder the slower, and the more gas volume the more). This has two consequences for the food: the crystals can grow so that they damage the cell walls (in fish/meat or vegetables): the thawed meat is noticeably more tender, for vegetables we call the same effect mushy and often do not appreciate is as much. (Freezing in a home freezer is sufficiently slow to get this effect)

The 2nd effect is that even at these low temperatures, water evaporates (that is part of how the re-crystallization processes work), and pure water crystals form. Over time and helped by temperature changes (due to opening, putting in new stuff, cooling cycles), pure water tends to crystallize outside the food at the wall of the container. This water comes from inside the food, which is dehydated (freezer burn). 

Health effects none, or only indirect ones: destroyed cell walls may mean that microbial spoiling is faster once the food is thawed. But here again the time at -18 °C makes hardly any difference compared to the slowish process of freezing in a household freezer.

Dehydration/freezer burn also causes the protein to precipitate but that doesn't cause health concerns. And cooking/frying anyways leads to even irreversible protein denaturation (denaturation from drying may even be reversible).

In terms of packaging, vaccum sealing (in a material that is has low permeability for oxygen - not all plastics are gas tight on the time scales we're talking about, and permeability varies for different gases) helps. Frozen fish is sold glazed with a protective ice coating that also helps, both against freeze burn and by adding another barrier for oxygen. 

  

below 0C environment, no bacteria or fungi may grow

I wouldn't bet on this as a general fact of life, see psychrophile microorganisms. 
But for the food-relevant microorganisms it is a good approximation.

For your lobster, all that I explained about cold water fish will apply. It may not taste well any more. In terms of microbiological spoilage, months at -18 °C matter hardly at all compared to the time spent not or incompletely frozen.

For the yeast (pizza) dough, while you can freeze yeast dough (dried yeast is usually produced by a freeze drying process), yeast can also die and your home freezing process may not be as nice to the yeast as an industrial process optimized to keep it "alive". But you'll notice if it doesn't rise when thawed - and as @GdD points out, you may not need it to rise after thawing. 

If there are freeze burned spots, you may get away with thorough kneading like when  the surface of the resting dough accidentally dried a bit. Also, you can check the smell before putting any toppings.

A: They look like the Dutch "mini pancake" pans... they're used to make poffertjes.

There are nearly identical pans on sale here.

The Wikipedia article talks about them more specifically:

  

Poffertjes are a traditional Dutch batter treat. Resembling small, fluffy pancakes, they are made with yeast and buckwheat flour. Unlike American pancakes, they have a light, spongy texture. Typically, poffertjes are served with powdered sugar and butter, and sometimes syrup or advocaat.

And an image from a recipe page:

A: Make ice cubes out of coffee.

Depending on how you brew your coffee, you might even have some surplus coffee from time to time. Just pour it into an ice cube tray.

Then put the coffee ice cubes into your freshly brewed coffee, as usual.

A: I would rinse well with clear water.  Allow to dry thoroughly, and then use as normal. 

There is a small chance that your pizza stone will impart a soap flavor to your pizza, but I would say that it is worth a couple of pizza cooks to determine if there is a long term problem.  It's really not that much of a risk.

A: Use a larger measuring cup so it is only partly full. Then the cup will be tilted more when the pour starts.

A: - 

Cayenne pepper powder comes from the cayenne pepper.  It is hot/spicy, registering 30,000 to 50,000 Scoville units.  

- 

Chilli powder, depending where you live, can mean anything between pure powdered chilli pepper (location would determine the specific type of pepper) to a spice blend of chillies with cumin, oregano, and/or other spices.  Depending on the brand (or if you make it yourself) the heat and flavor can vary.

- 

Paprika is the dried and ground pepper capsicum annuum, the species of pepper that includes a wide variety of shapes and sizes, such as sweet bell pepper, jalapeno, New Mexico chili and cayenne.  It appears that the tomato pepper is the most commonly used variety for the production of paprika.  Of course, there are also smoked varieties (sweet, bittersweet, and hot).

I would say that they are generally not interchangeable.  Just a little bit of cayenne, for example, will bring quite a bit of heat to your final dish.  Chili powder will bring more flavor/spices than paprika.

It really depends on the final result you are looking for, but simple substitutions will result in very different outcomes.

A: I was surprised at how difficult it was to find the answer, but I eventually found articles by the FDA and CDC.

Consumers should be aware that there are additional risks associated
with the consumption of raw dough, such as particularly harmful
strains of E. coli in a product like flour.

Flour is derived from a grain that comes directly from the field and
typically is not treated to kill bacteria[...] So if an animal heeds
the call of nature in the field, bacteria from the animal waste could
contaminate the grain, which is then harvested and milled into flour.

Common “kill steps” applied during food preparation and/or processing
(so-called because they kill bacteria that cause infections) include
boiling, baking, roasting, microwaving, and frying. But with raw
dough, no kill step has been used. [...] Common symptoms for Shiga toxin-producing E. coli are diarrhea (often bloody) and abdominal cramps, although most people recover within a week. But some illnesses last longer and can be more severe, resulting in a type of kidney failure called hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS).

That's pretty gross.

But then this number of people reportedly infected is so small that I'm surprised at the prevalence of the warnings (such as on packaging):

In recent years (2016 and 2019), two outbreaks of E. coli infections
linked to raw flour made more than 80 people sick. Flour and baking
mixes that contain flour have long shelf lives, so it’s a good idea to
check your pantry to see if you have any flour or baking mixes that
have been recalled in recent years.

A: One possible consideration is that some frozen desserts (most notably ice creams and sorbets) can be very difficult to scoop if your freezer is too cold.  Optimal serving temperature for ice cream is between about 5 & 10°F (-15°C & -12°C);  colder freezers may result in difficult scooping and/or needing to leave the ice cream out to thaw.

The proposed advantage of "colder ice cubes" is relatively small, because the vast majority of heat absorption by ice (in a drink, say) is due to it thawing.  To put some numbers on it, every gram of frozen ice absorbs about 2.1 joules of heat energy when it warms up by 1°C.  In contrast, that same gram of ice absorbs 335 joules of heat energy when it thaws into liquid water.  If you run the numbers, this means that ice at -22°C will only absorb 2-3% more heat from your drinks than ice at -18°C.

A: Your egg whites were cooked by the alcohol in the extract. Cooked, in this case, means denaturing, which means unfolding the protein molecules. There are many ways to denature proteins. Acid, such as vinegar, will denature egg proteins, which is why some people suggest adding vinegar to the water to poach an egg (a practice I disagree with, but that's another subject). 

Ceviche, as another example, is fish which is cooked (denatured) in acid (such as lime juice). Although heat is not used, the fish is still cooked. (Note: the acid will kill some bacteria but is not as effective as cooking with heat, so be sure to use fresh fish from a source you trust.)

This is similar to how burning means combining with oxygen, so you can burn metal (rust) without heat (most easily by adding water).

A: Use a salted ice-water bath. The water increases the contact and heat dissipation, and adding salt allows the temperature to go below freezing.

A: Aw, you youngsters, spoiled with your Nestle Quick... :)

To mix cocoa powder with a liquid (or really, to mix any powder with a liquid - salt and granulated sugar aren't powders), you need to make a slurry by mixing a small part of the liquid into all of the powder. Then you can dilute the slurry with the rest of the liquid.

Note that if you're using sugar for sweetening, it helps to add it to the cocoa powder before you add any liquid, because the sugar helps the dissolving. However, since stevia is so much sweeter than sugar, you use too little of it to make any difference to the dissolving process. Thus, you can go ahead and add it afterward, so you can adjust the sweetness better.

A: From this link 

  

The key to slicing and portioning foie is to treat it like a rich
  mousse-cake: Make sure to heat up your knife under running water in
  between every slice. A cold knife will catch and stick in the foie,
  causing it to tear or crumble. A hot knife will melt the fat as it
  goes through, leaving you with clean, smooth surfaces to sear.

A: As was mentioned, this is a kohlrabi. I felt more explanation should be given based on the fascinating nature of this plant.

Kohlrabi is one of the handful of cultivars of brassica oleracea. Others include: 

  

cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, kale, Brussels sprouts, collard greens, savoy, kohlrabi, and gai lan. Brassica Oleracea (Wikipedia)

Brassica oleracea has been cultivated in many different parts of the world to appear almost like entirely unique plants. However, each of the listed plants are, in fact, the same species with slightly varying traits. Kohlrabi, for example, has been bred to have lateral growth in the meristem while broccoli has been bred to have a large, flowering head.

Kohlrabi can be eaten either cooked or raw. It's often used in salads and slaws, and can be interchanged with collard greens or kale.

A: Baking powder contains starch, which is insoluble.

Baking soda is completely soluble

Take a small bowl, and put 1/8 tsp of the substance in the bottom.

Add water.

If the substance is bicarbonate of soda, the solution will be completely clear.

If it is baking powder, a cloudy/powdery residue will remain.

(You can also use excess vinegar which gives the same result, and fizzes in a pleasingly sciencey fashion...)

A: I come from a culture where rice is our staple and I have a rice cooker. Here are some of the advantages from my perspective:

- Rice is perfect everytime – not stuck to the bottom, not watery, not mushy and stuck together, etc.

- If you make rice in a pot, and the heat is too high, it will boil and spill over creating a mess.

- You can switch the rice cooker on and go do other things, whereas it is dangerous to walk away from a stove.

- The rice cooker can be used for other things such as cooking lentils and steaming vegetables.

- Rice cookers are cheap.

A: There are really only a few secrets to good fried rice:

- Day Old White Rice (Make it the day before, let it cool, place it in the fridge)

- This I'd say is absolutely, the main thing.

- The texture will NOT be right if you use freshly cooked rice. There will be too much moisture.

- HEAT!

- Your Wok needs to be hot. You want everything to cook quickly.

- Cook stuff separately. 

- This is a follow-up from 2. You want it all to cook very quickly, a crowded pan will hinder that.

- Cook Meat to 80%, take it out, cook the other stuff, add the meat back in.

- Don't touch it.

- Unless you have a blazing professional burner, your food needs time against the wok. Put it in, leave it for a bit, mix it some more.

- Fish Sauce & Chinese Sausage

- They add great flavour.

If it all seems complicated, it really isn't. Use day old rice & give it lots of heat.

Here are a couple of recipes that give further detail and have great explanations:

- Shrimp Fried Rice on Steamy Kitchen

- Secrets to Cooking the Best Chinese Fried Rice on Steamy Kitchen

- Chinese Fried Rice on Rasa Malaysia

A: I think the description you're looking for is what is often described as "muddy flavors" or "fighting flavors" or "muddled flavors" (though the latter is also a term used for a specific technique, so searching the internet will give lots of results for that).

This doesn't mean that it tastes like a mix of dirt & water--but rather that the flavors are no longer distinct, and possibly fighting with each other.

When you create recipes, the goal is to get all the individual pieces to come together to "sing" like a harmonious chorus. Each element comes together to do it's individual small role so that when it comes together it create a beautiful song. If you use too many strong flavors, they fight with each other--like trying to build a choral group out of egotistical soloists who all want to shine as the center of attention.

That "group of egotistical soloists," in food, creates "fighting" or "muddy" flavors.

A: If you're at all like me, you are reassured by hard numbers and measurables. This should help.

In this situation one of the likely pathogens would be one of the Salmonella species. Salmonella is killed by temperatures in excess of 130 F (55 C). However, it's not an instant death. The time to kill Salmonella decreases exponentially as the temperature increases.

The following table represents all the temperature and duration to kill 99.9999% of the most heat-resistant strain Salmonella senftenberg. This species is as much as 30x more heat resistant than a "normal" S. typhimurium.

For any given temperature the proportion of bacteria killed is constant. 1/6th the time kills 90%, 1/3rd kills 99%, 1/2 kills 99.9% etc.

USDA guidelines to kill Salmonella and E. Coli are as follows:

So, needless to say, re-searing your steak at a typically high stove top temperature (at least 300 F [149 C]) for even a fraction of a second will result in utter devastation to whatever beastie population you may have picked up in recontaminating your meat. Chances are, if the steak came hot out of the pan, and you removed it from the plate quickly, the residual heat alone would be enough to kill it. The re-sear certainly doesn't hurt though.

A good rule of thumb is to wash plates as you go. If this is not possible or convenient you should minimally remove the plate from your vicinity by putting it in the sink or dishwasher as soon as you have taken the food off of it.

A: There is one very different issue to be kept in mind - water in a microwave can overheat and "explode" once it is disturbed.

Another poster had exactly this problem a short while ago: Water exploded in Microwave

So follow the usual precautions, e.g. putting a  wooden toothpick or a small, very clean stone (chemists have them in their labs) in your vessel. In a pinch, a spoon will do, but not all microwaves handle metal objects well.

If you are worried that heating your water in a microwave might not be sufficient to kill all "nasties", remember that killing bacteria is a function of time and temperature, so you might feel safer if you not only bring your water to a boil, but continue boiling it for another minute or so. I would assume that this is mostly for your psychological benefit, but it certainly won't hurt. The temperature reached is identical for different heating devices as physics dictates the boiling point of water and it can't exceed that as long as it's liquid.

A: The oil is not actually doing anything to protect the wood - the idea that it does so is a very widespread myth. This is the conclusion of the guy who wrote the book on wood finishing, and I can confirm it from personal experience. You can continue using it for cosmetic reasons, I am personally partial to the look given by flax oil - although there are people who prefer the opposite, because cuts are much less noticeable on unoiled wood.

To get real protection on an wooden item, you have to apply a layer that actually seals the wood. The substances which do this well are shellac, nitro lacquers, acrylic finishes and alkydic finishes.

While you could use a safe-in-trace-amounts finish on a chopping board, the mechanical action of a knife will soon damage such a layer to a point where it becomes useless. Most people are just not interested in refinishing their chopping board a couple of times per week.

As for the source of the myth: Long before good finishes were discovered, people tried protecting wood. Since it was known that wood is most damaged by moisture, they used all kinds of water-repelling substances, such as different oils and waxes, sometimes also natural resins. The protection afforded by those is minimal, but it was all they had - and to the naked eye, it does look like a great protection, since oiled wood has an entirely different appearance, and water droplets pearl on it instead of visibly wetting it.

This is a concept that is known in science as "face validity" - you look at an approach and your intuition tells you that it must be working, so you are likely to conclude that it works. Scientists try to prove that methods work independently of their face validity, but cooks and woodworkers rarely do so :) And since there is a tradition, which convincingly does something, people continue applying it and promoting it.

A: Chicken juices contain a soupy mix of proteins including haemoglobin (which gives blood its red colour when mixed with oxygen), and some myoglobin (which gives red meat its red colour when mixed with oxygen). Up to about 140F, they are unchanged, but heat them to between 140F and 160F and they lose their ability to bind oxygen and so their colours change. So if your juices are running clear, you know the temperature is at least higher then 140F and probably closer to 160F if they are indeed clear.

The question of what is 'doneness' is an interesting one. For most foods, doneness is a question of taste. After years of eating my chicken at 'at least 140F', I really like that taste. We usually cook foods to improve their taste, texture, nutritional value; very few foods traditionally kill or harm us if they are not cooked (cassava, certain beans are notable exceptions). Heating to 165F is recommended not for taste but to kill organisms such as salmonella - a tricky blighter that lives inside the cells of some other creatures and so can't be washed or peeled off.

I'm pretty sure that I'm the first generation cook in my family to own an instant-read probe digital food thermometer, so why is this now necessary? Well I may also be the first generation where salmonella in store-bought chicken is considered a saleable product and something to be cooked out by heat, rather than designed out by good farming and food handling practice. The 165F statement from food safety bodies was brought in to deal with such issues.

In France, there are still plenty of people who like their chicken very pink. With my own grown chickens, I will cook them till a skewer pierced into the deepest part of the thigh (but not near the bone), shows clear juices and on deep-breasted old breeds that can leave a tinge of pink towards the bottom of a (deliciously juicy) breast. I'm personally comfortable with that particular risk/reward balance.

But store-bought chicken? From an unattributed source? At $1:15/lb? Pass me the probe, please.

A: The method that I always use is just to pour down whatever utensil I'm using at the moment (e.g. spoon, knife, rubber scraper, etc.). You just press the utensil into the pouring notch as you pour and the liquid will follow the utensil (bartenders will often use this "trick" when making cocktails).

A: There's definitely some rounding going on because the peanut butter has 100.1g of nutrients per 100g of product.  This isn't enough to explain the discrepancy.  Adding up the nutrients on the roasted peanuts gives 95.4g.  I think we can assume the other 4.6% is water.  So perhaps more water has been driven off the peanut butter.

What I think is more likely (though could be additional) is that there's significantly less fat in the peanut butter (48.1% vs 51.7%).  While this could be down to different varieties of peanut, I suspect some fat is removed in the processing, perhaps to avoid an oil slick on the surface.  

Most likely of all is just different source data. Different peanuts may have been used in the calculations -- whether that is consistent with the actual ingredients used is another matter.  In fact if you look at nutrition information for raw peanuts online, you'll get a range of values.  There's nothing special about peanuts, the same is true for bananas.  I'm sure if you look at the scientific literature on any foodstuff, you'll find a range of values published, reflecting natural variation as well as measurement variabilility -- this will then propagate to the values published to the consumer.

A: Normal vinegar concentration (usually around 5% acetic acid) is too acidic to grow mold in the vinegar itself. Mold can sometimes grow on the bottle or on the surface of the vinegar. It isn't dangerous and can be wiped/skimmed off.

What you are seeing is called the mother.

Vinegar is produce when acetobacter bacteria consume alcohol and produce acetic acid. The bacteria form a culture as they work. In the case of filtered vinegar, this culture is removed before bottling but letting a bottle of unpasteurized vinegar sit for a while will allow the culture to reform. Unfiltered vinegar often already has some of the mother present.

It is harmless and can be used to start your own vinegar if you have stale wine sitting around.

A: Try searching for "pan scrapers." I have a pair from Lodge that has served me well, though you can find almost identical scrapers without the branding.

These are essentially equivalent to the scrapers mentioned by ChrisH, but with curves to make it easier to clean the edges of your pans

A: There's no point drinking wine and not enjoying it. The point of wine with food is that, if you enjoy the wine and enjoy the food, you'll enjoy both together even more. But if you don't enjoy the wine, you'll enjoy the food less if you force yourself to drink wine with it.

Is there anything you do like about wine? If not, I suggest you ignore it for the time being. If you're curious, you'll come back to it in your own time, whenever you're ready. If you're not, it doesn't matter: there's nothing wrong with not liking wine.

If there is something you like about wine, for example, the aroma or some component of the taste, I suggest you keep trying it but don't force yourself. Taste it every now and again and, if you still don't like it, wait until you want to try it again.  This is what I did with whisky.  As a teenager / young adult, I really liked the smell of whisky but didn't like the taste &ndash; in hindsight, it was probably the alcohol content that was the problem.  Every now and again I'd have a taste from my father's glass or from somebody I was drinking with at a bar.  For a long time, I didn't like it but I still liked the aroma so I kept trying a couple of times a year. Eventually, I started drinking it.

A few things to bear in mind about wine.

- 

Avoid cheap wine and don't waste your money on expensive wine that you won't appreciate. Low price isn't a guarantee of low quality and high price isn't a guarantee of high quality but it's worth spending, say, twice the price of the cheapest bottle if you're at the supermarket. That's likely to lift you into wines that you're disliking because you dislike wine, rather than because they're bad.

- 

Red wine, poured straight from the bottle often tastes rather harsh. Open the bottle half an hour or so before you want to drink it and let it sit in the glass for a couple of minutes before you drink.

- 

Wines (especially red) with just one or two grape varieties named on the bottle usually have simpler, less challenging tastes.

- 

Sweeter white wines will probably be more appealing to you than drier ones. Try something like a sauvignon blanc or unoaked chardonnay, rather than, say, a pinot gris/pinot grigio. Riesling can be anywhere from super-sweet to mouth-puckeringly dry depending on what the winemaker did.

- 

Supermarkets in the UK sell quarter-bottles of decent-but-not-amazing wine. That's a good way to try lots of different styles without having to spend a lot of money or feeling that you're wasting a whole bottle if you don't like it.

- 

This suggestion is heresy but... consider chilling red wine. Chilling tends to make harsher flavours less noticeable. If you find you like it chilled, try chilling it less.

- 

Ask a wine merchant. Specialist wine merchants love to talk about wine. Don't be embarrassed to walk into one of their stores and say, "Hi. I like the idea of wine but I've never found a wine I like drinking." Their eyes will light up because this is a challenge to them to use their skills to make a customer really happy. If you buy a couple of bottles on their recommendations, you'll be their favourite customer of the day, I guarantee. Doubly so if you go back a week later after liking what you bought. Go for it!

A: It's not just American supermarkets that rarely carry mutton, this situation is similar across the Anglosphere, and I suspect most Western countries too (or at least those without a strong mutton culture). The reason is largely economic. Mutton is expensive and not as tasty as lamb.

- 

First, the immediate reason is that nobody really eats mutton anymore. Yes, there are certain locales, cultures and movements still eating mutton or are trying to bring it back, but today, on aggregate, the demand for mutton is near zero. According to the USDA:

  

The U.S. market for lamb and mutton has weakened throughout the decades. Since the 1960s, per capita consumption has dropped from nearly 5 pounds to just about 1 pound. This drop is due in part to declining acceptance of lamb from a growing segment of the population, as well as competition from other meats, such as poultry, pork, and beef. Most meat is sold as lamb and comes from animals under 14 months old.

Here's a per-capita consumption graph:

If nobody buys mutton, supermarkets don't sell them. The supply chain for meats is pretty complex; it's not something that a store manager can just decide one day to order a batch and shelve to see if it sells. Meat needs to be slaughtered and deboned in an abattoir, butchered either in store butcheries or at centres (unless you fancy buying an entire, 50kg cut), and displayed in refrigerated sections. If there's enough local demand for mutton then maybe individual supermarkets can carry them, just as meats like rabbit, duck or kangaroo is sometimes sold at a few supermarkets.

- 

But why don't people eat mutton? People just don't like it. It is an inferior good.

  

Mutton comes from older animals and is often less expensive but less desirable to consumers. (USDA)

.

  

As can be seen, the average income elasticities across the studies are 0.77 for
  beef, 0.24 for lamb, -0.65 for mutton, 0.47 for chicken and 0.48 for pork.

(Negative income inelasticity = inferior good) That is, as incomes grow, as they have over this timeframe, people want to buy less of it.

- 

Lamb is a superior substitute for mutton. Anecdotally, compared to lamb, mutton is gamier, tougher, and harder to cook. Economically, lamb and mutton have high cross-price elasticity - if one's price grows, demand shifts to the other, indicating that they are substitutes. And the real killer is...

- 

Mutton prices have grown faster than lamb.

Mutton is still cheaper than lamb, but in relative terms it has become more economic to raise and sell lamb. There are multiple market forces at play: the cost of raising the sheep past lamb age, the efficiency of raising lambs (i.e. increased lamb weight), the growth of dairy leading to higher beef supply, the relative decline in wool reducing mutton supply and so on. You'll have to ask a farmer.

Source: Changing Pattern of Meat Consumption in Australia by Lucille Wong, E A Selvanathan and Saroja Selvanathan

Update: didn't notice that the graph was price indices and not actual prices

A: The primary benefit of crutching a large piece of meat on the smoker is to reduce evaporative cooling.

What is Evaporative Cooling?

When water is heated, it evaporates into vapor that we call steam. The state change from liquid water to gaseous steam is an endothermic process. That means that energy is consumed—as opposed to exothermic processes whereby energy is released.

Evaporative cooling is the effect that this state change has on the meat itself. Liquid steaming off of the meat has a net effect of cooling the meat. This is the same process the human body uses to cool us down in warm weather. We produce sweat which then evaporates, thus cooling our body.

When cooking a big cut of meat it is not uncommon to lose a quarter or more of the weight from the time it hits the smoker to the time you are ready to eat. Most of that lost weight is water.

Why reduce Evaporative Cooling?

When a piece of meat reaches the temperature required for the surface to begin steaming aggressively, the evaporative cooling effect becomes significant enough to halt or significantly slow the overall warming trend of the meat.

In barbecue parlance, this is called "The Stall." The stall can last several hours. By the nature of the variables at play, this stall often happens in what is essentially unproductive time on the smoker. Meaning, the meat is not yet hot enough to be fully into the process of breaking down tough connective tissues, and it's already past the point where it is gaining significant flavor from the smoke. Essentially, it is just sitting there. Using up fuel and time.

Depending on your goals, you may also want that moisture to be inside your meat.

In this graph you can see that the internal temperature of the meat actually dropped during the stall, in spite of the temperature in the smoker itself remaining consistent. It took about 5 hours to regain the heat lost to the stall. This graph was generated by a smoker temperature controller, emphasis mine. One could argue that the stall begins earlier than indicated. There exist more cut-and-dry examples, but I chose this one because of the significant internal temperature dip shown.

What is the value of the Texas Crutch?

In short, it saves time and fuel. Wrapping the meat reduces the evaporative cooling effect so you waste less time in the stall. You're essentially braising the meat in your humidity-controlled environment within the wrap. The steam cannot escape, so the cooling effect is reduced.

What's the catch?

Wrapping your meat to power through the stall will soften the bark (the highly desirable seasoned crust that this food is famous for). When you do or do not crutch is completely dependent on 1) how much time you have to perform your cook and 2) the goal end state of your food. If you're smoking a pork butt, for example, and you plan to pull the meat and mix it up with sauce to make sandwiches, the state of your bark may not be very important to you.

Personally, I am a "bark guy" so I usually make sacrifices in favor of maintaining it. I want shards of chewy bark to contrast the tender texture of the rest of the meat. This usually means giving myself extra time. This is sometimes a more reasonable goal at home than it is in a commercial or competitive environment. 

Note that the general principles at work here apply to roasting in an oven as well. Some smokers are indeed very similar to ovens.

A: First, 145 °F (63 °C) and higher is the temperature for a well done steak. So, with the addition of carry-over cooking, your results don't surprise me.  If you are shooting for rare, cook to an internal temperature of 125 °F (52 °C), and let your steak rest 10 minutes before slicing.

While the USDA correctly and necessarily provides temperature guidelines, in fact the reduction of pathogens follows a logarithmic curve and includes the variables of temperature and time. That means, in general, that longer times at lower temperatures will reduce pathogens. This understanding is the basis of sous vide cooking, for example.

Additionally, we generally assume that any potential pathogens are only present on the surface of whole muscle cuts.  So, again, in general, achieving the target temperature on the surface eliminates the threat.

Finally, the quality and handling of the raw product is critical.  It is important that you have fresh products, kept refrigerated or frozen until use, and handled by people who are practicing safe handling procedures (washed hands or gloves, ...).

A: Tea bags will be fine for at least a year in the pantry, but even long after that, they're still safe to consume.  They just might change colour or flavour.

If your tea has an expiration date then it's just for best quality, not safety.  I've personally found tea bags sitting at the back of the pantry that were more than 3 years old, the packaging had even started to fade, and the tea was still fine.  I just had to steep it for a little longer.

A: They're often called ice spikes. Ten years ago these things were pretty mysterious, but now Wikipedia even has a video of them growing out of ice cube trays in a freezer.

Basically, the ice surface freezes first, which slightly pressurizes the water underneath. That water breaks through the crust, and continues to flow, and freeze to equalize pressure within the cooling cube. Temperature conditions have to be just right for it to happen, so you don't see them all the time.

A: Actually, there are really only a few oils you can substitute for each other, at least without any significant side effects.

The oils which generally are used interchangeably are peanut oil, canola/rapeseed oil, and sunflower oil.  These oils have similar smoke points, don't impart any really noticeable flavour, and tend to be used primarily for high-heat cooking (pan-frying, deep-frying), so if you're paranoid about saturated fat for instance, you can substitute sunflower oil for peanut oil.  Corn oil is in the same group, but I rarely see that used anymore.  You can also use the "light" olive oil, but that will change the flavour of the dish.  I believe walnut oil has similar properties, but it's considerably harder to find.

But keep in mind that oils are used for far more than frying.  Many have highly-specialized uses:

- 

Extra virgin olive oil is most commonly used in sauces and salad dressings ("oil and vinegar" almost always means olive oil, there really is no substitute);

- 

Chili oil is really more of a condiment than a cooking oil.  Even if you could cook with it, the result would be inedible due to the heat.

- 

Toasted sesame oil is used as a flavourings in Asian dishes.  It's useless as a cooking oil (and cooking with it would be a terrible waste).  Regular sesame oil, on the other hand, is often bought in a refined form and is generally used as a cooking oil.

- 

There are a lot of other more esoteric types of oil such as palm oil and coconut oil, which you really don't want to use unless you know what you're doing (you can ruin the flavour).

I could go on, but for now I'll refer you to the Types of oils and their characteristics as a starting point.  Cooking oils really aren't freely interchangeable in all situations; even if you've accounted for smoke point and flavour, sometimes a significantly different fat content (i.e. grapeseed oil which is mostly polyunsaturated vs. canola oil which is mostly monounsaturated) can seriously mess up a delicate recipe.

It's better to be asking which oils you can substitute in a specific situation than to assume everything goes and list the "exceptional" circumstances.

A: Ok, here is the straight dope, directly from De Cecco customer service:

  

With reference to your question we would like to inform you that the numbers you mention do not have a logical criteria but are just code numbers which we give our products each time we make a new shape.

A: Follow these steps and watch very carefully...

- Set your oven on Broil (high) and put your rack on the top shelf. 

- Let the oven get nice and hot (3-7 minutes).  

- Fill an oven safe dish with crushed ice and water and place your dishes into the ice/water bath.  

- The cold bath should keep the custard from cooking, but the sugar on top will heat till it caramelizes.  

- It'll only take 3-4mins.

A: It's neither necessary nor a particularly good idea; it does little to remove bacteria from the surface of the meat (which you're about to cook, remember) and runs the risk of spraying/dripping bacteria all over the kitchen.

The FSIS has an article on it here:

  

Washing raw poultry, beef, pork, lamb, or veal before cooking it is not recommended. Bacteria in raw meat and poultry juices can be spread to other foods, utensils, and surfaces.

The only exception would be something like vac-packed, wet-aged meat where you need to remove the salt, but that's a matter of preference.

I have never washed a piece of meat in my life and I'm still here!

A: reference: http://www.engineeringtoolbox.com/conductive-heat-transfer-d_428.html

Let's take a moment to look at the heat transfer equation. Looking at it, we can see the ways to get more efficient heat transfer

- use a material with a high thermal conductivity constant (like copper)

- thinner (!) material

- maintain a higher difference in temperature

The way these thawers work should now be easy to understand. (1) They are made of a material that has a very high thermal conductivity constant, like copper. The higher a material's thermal conductivity, the faster it can equalize it's temperature with that of the surrounding material.

Things that touch each other want to be the same temperature. When you put an ice cube on a sheet of room temperature copper, they are very different temperatures. But as soon as they touch, they want to be the same temperature, so heat transfer begins. Heat "flows" from the copper to the ice, increasing the temperature of the ice (melting it), and decreasing the temperature of the copper. Heat also flows throughout the copper itself, meaning that even the parts of the copper that are far away from the ice are losing heat.

With the copper losing heat, it quickly falls out of temperature equilibrium with the surrounding air. But the air and copper also want to be the same temperature, and so heat from the air "flows" into the copper, bringing it back closer to room temperature, which in turn allows the copper to heat up the ice some more.... But of course there aren't distinct steps to this process: all of these heat transfers happen simultaneously and continuously. And as long as the air has some circulation, you can consider it to be an unlimited supply of room temperature heat.

The top of the copper plate is probably flat, to increase the amount of surface area in contact with the ice. The bottom of the copper plate, however, is probably ribbed or finned, to increase the surface area with the surrounding air, but without (2) creating more thickness!

We could also address (3) and heat the copper electrically, above room temperature, but then we run the risk of heating part of the food to that temperature as well. The benefit of using a passive copper heatsink is that the temperature will never rise above room temperature!

A: I'm a scientist not a cook, but this is how I would do it.

Conductive cup for the coffee. A thin-walled aluminium is best, but steel works reasonably ok. Glass or porcelain just insulates too well. (consider an empty cola can, that's about as thin-walled as aluminium containers get)

Put it in a container with crushed ice.

Add salt to the ice.

The crushed ice promptly becomes an ice slushy with liquid water at temperatures down to -20C, and with all the thermal benefits of ice's latent heat of fusion (the heat it wants to absorb when melting)

It should cool one cup of boiling water(coffee) down to about 2C in under 30 seconds,

and about 2 minutes later you have a solid block of iced coffee.

At least it does that for a lab specimen that needs to be cooled urgently.

A: Smoke is normal in an electric oven, but flames are definitely not.

In order to start a fire, you either need a spark, or you need to heat something beyond its autoignition temperature (AKA kindling point).  You might have had a short - or you might actually be using a gas oven with spark ignition - but I'm guessing your issue was the latter.

Cooking oil or grease being heated beyond its autoignition point is one of the most common causes of kitchen fires (grease fires).  Supposedly, some oils have autoignition points as low as 550° F (or 288° C), though I'm not sure which oils those are.  Olive oil would be my guess as the lowest, but pepperoni grease could very well have ignited at self-cleaning temperatures (which, as you noticed, go up to nearly 1000° F).

Fortunately for you, all modern ovens have a mechanical interlock which prevents them from being opened during a self-cleaning cycle.  If you'd opened it, you would have made the problem a lot worse by (a) supplying the fire with abundant oxygen, and (b) drawing all the hot air and flames out of the oven and into your kitchen, quite possibly setting your whole home on fire.  Heat wants to move to where it's cold; that's why you keep your doors and windows closed in the winter.

There are a multitude of oven cleaners available for self-cleaning ovens - you are supposed to use these before you run a self-cleaning cycle.  Yes, I know it's odd, but "self-cleaning" doesn't really actually mean that it cleans itself, it just gives you a little extra help.  You need to try to clear out all the grease and big chunks of food first using one of these cleaners, then run the self-cleaning cycle to deal with anything you might have missed.

A: Essentially, the exterior crust and the interior evenness are both side effects of the distribution of water.

The Maillard Reaction - the chemical reaction responsible for the brown crust - happens at about 150° C.  Generally you're baking at a much higher temperature than this - say 200° C.

The first question one might ask is, why is the crust only on the outside?  And the answer is because only the outside gets dry enough; as the small amount of water on the surface evaporates, the temperature is allowed to rise to ambient oven temperature.

The reason it doesn't happen on the inside is precisely the opposite; water boils at 100° C, so as long as there's still water in liquid form (and bread is, to a large extent, water), the temperature can't get any higher than that.  The interior of the bread is always regulated at approximately 100° C, and since the baking temperature is uniform, so is the finished product.  It's almost like poaching an egg or a piece of meat; no part of it is able to get any hotter than the liquid around it, so the longer you cook it, the more uniform the temperature gets.

If you continued to bake the bread until all of the interior water evaporated into steam, then it would eventually start to undergo the same process as the steam slowly escaped.  But we usually don't bake bread that long, so it doesn't happen.  As commenter Ray points out, there are some types of darker bread such as pumpernickel which involve intentional "overbaking", but obviously not to the point of burning it.

Note: There may also be a certain element of the process that is due to steam being trapped inside; the water vapor, like any gas, expands and distributes itself fairly uniformly throughout its container.  However, the bread is porous, so this steam eventually has to escape; if it didn't, you'd end up with a very damp interior after cooldown from all the condensation.  If you measure, you'll also notice that the weight of a fully-baked bread is about 10% less than the original dough weight.  So the steam doesn't stick around indefinitely, but the continuous evaporation coupled with the temperature self-regulation (due to the boiling point) keeps the temperature relatively constant.

A: Butter and margarine freeze perfectly.  I generally stock up during sales and thaw it as needed. You just have to make sure it's wrapped tightly in the foil, to prevent oxidation.  It'll keep at least 6 months, probably more if you don't have a self-defrosting freezer.

Thawing butter does take quite a while, however.  I usually give a package a few days to thaw fully. If you need butter in a hurry, you can always put it in a Ziploc bag and fast thaw it a bowl under running running water.  Or, just soften it in the microwave.

A: You can find out. 

Split your sauce into 2 batches.  Add onions and garlic raw to one and sautéed to another.  Some people like the sharp strong taste of those things raw.  In the US that is not common.  Sauteeing will mellow the taste.  When I make sauce I sauté it because I hope someone else will eat it besides me.

If you are not sure or you are American consider 1/3 sauce with the raw and 2/3 with the sautéed.

A: Thank you, all of you, who contributed by answers or comments to the thinking that leads now to this answer. I listened to all of you, and it worked. I can't describe how tickled I am. Your suggestions opened my mind to thinking that this could still "work" even if it didn't quite go as I had hoped. As it turned out, the end product exceeded my hopes.

This is my soon-to-be-world-famous Dulce de Leche ice cream. Two nights ago I froze a batch with my new caramelized salt. It wasn't my intention to create a swirl-in, but once I had the candy, I had to try it that way.

Just before snapping the picture, I sprinkled some of the candy on top. Then I took a bite. HOLY COW!

The candy hits the tongue as just sweet. Then it morphs. In less than a second you start to get the bitter notes of dark caramel, then BAM it hits with salt. It ends salty and sweet, with the bitterness just a memory. By then, you've already got your next bite ready, as in, "What the hell just happened?" Paired with the very one-note sweetness of the Dulce de Leche, the multitudinous flavor bursts of this little crunch are phenomenal. 

Are you reading into this that I'm a little excited right about now?

The candy that was swirled into the ice cream did NOT make the surrounding ice cream salty. It just swirled in, but kept its own character, albeit stickier and less (but still) crunchy. It's a great contrast to the creamy Dulce de Leche.

I discussed this small triumph in chat before posting this answer. Logophobe immediately jumped to using the "dust" (I'll show you that in a bit) to rim margarita glasses. The "margaritas" would be made with this. Oh hell yeah.

How about as a pork rub? Hell, HELL yeah!

The possibilities for this stuff are endless.

I hope by now you're intrigued enough that you want your own caramelized salt to play with.

Caramelized Salt

I basically stuck with my original plan, but I didn't use Maldon; I used inexpensive large crystal (rock) sea salt, like you might put into a grinder.

First, I just made a dry caramel as per David Lebovitz using 1/2 cup (100g) of plain granulated sugar. I took his advice and brought the caramel to a darker point (closer to burnt) than I might have otherwise.

(Mr. Lebovitz' photos, not mine)

At just the very last possible second, I stirred in 100g of rock salt and poured that onto a greased sheet pan. After it cooled, it looked like this:

I broke off a tiny bit and tasted it. Too salty. I could barely discern any caramel at all. Hmmph. Well, I didn't expect this to go that easily.

What to do, what to do?

What if I break this up into chunks and do it all over again? That might work...

So I broke it up and put it into a heavy Ziploc. Then I alarmed my neighbor (he called in panic) by beating the crap out of it with the smooth side of a meat mallet.

Then I made the caramel again, this time I used 3/4 cup (150g) of sugar.

At the last possible second I stirred in my salty sugar chunks and poured the mix onto the same greased sheet pan. I was hoping that this time would maintain the clumpy appearance of the last. It didn't; it immediately homogenized into a fairly smooth mass.

At this point I didn't have great hopes, but I figured I'd see if I could make anything useful out of this. I called my neighbor to warn him, then I proceeded again to beat the crap out of it.

At this point I tasted it and kind of liked it, but the sizes of the pieces were all over the map. I didn't like that. I also didn't like the way it looked; the dust marred the glassy appearance of the larger shards.

So I grabbed three sieves of varying fineness and proceeded to work the candy through the holes. Anything that went through the fine sieve I called "fairy dust". By spending some time working out the "dust" I was left with larger, cleaner shards. I worked those through a pasta colander, then a big pasta colander.

The first time around, anything too big to make it through the the big holes of the big colander got put back in a Ziploc and beat up again. That gave me more "fairy dust" and more medium shards. The second time around, the shards that wouldn't go through were small enough that they might make a nice garnish - 2 or 3 pieces on top of the ice cream. So I kept them. It was a good call, they're fun.

Swirled into the ice cream, I used the dust and medium shards. The dust dissolves, but it stays to itself. It doesn't make the ice cream next to it salty. The medium shards maintain their integrity, they don't completely dissolve, they provide some crunch. The big chunks look awesome as a garnish and since they stay in the mouth long enough to savor, you can really pick up their complexity.

Pretty amazing stuff from 2 inexpensive ingredients.

I didn't get the encapsulation effect I was looking for, but in the end, I couldn't be happier with how this turned out. 

Next time I'm going to try just doing it in one step using regular kosher salt. It might work, but I'm guessing that it won't be the same. We'll see.

A: This question was answered to some extent in another Pasta cooking question by Roux. This answer, which is basically just a link to a series of experiments by an MIT grad / Chef, dispels a number of myths about cooking pasta. For instance:

- Water will return to a boil in the same amount of time regardless of how much is in the pot prior to pasta being added.  

- Pasta won't get sticky with smaller amounts of water. It only gets sticky because of reactions in the first few minutes of cooking, and the solution is to stir it. This is necessary even with lots of water. 

- You do not need a lot of water to cook pasta. 

- Water does not need to be boiling to cook pasta. It simply needs to be above 180°F/82°C. 

Some really interesting stuff in the article that debunks quite a lot of kitchen lore about cooking pasta. I have tried this at home with great success. 

So in answer to your specific question: 

- No, you do not need a lot of water, it simply has to cover the pasta. 

- The amount of salt is heavily dependent on the amount of pasta, the amount of water, and your own taste. You need to find a consistent way to cook pasta and then experiment.

A: The answer it seems is - no, you can't just use any variety of corn. It seems that you need in particular a hard shell around the kernel that is not present in sweetcorn varieties.

I also suspect that it is harder to make than one might imagine, you need a specific percentage of water in the kernel to get it to pop - this is why you can't store unpopped popcorn in the open and once opened needs to be used within a few months, as the water will evaporate and eventually the percentage will become too low to effectively pop.

A: There are thermal sensation scales, and they are applied in food research too, although their primary use tends to be focused on clothing or environment. They tend to be categorical rather than ratio scales, and don't depend on the presence of a single compound the way scoville does. Despite checking several likely sources (a book on neurogastronomy, a thesis on measuring the perception of food - mostly focused on texture, but also discussing thermoreceptors) I didn't find a mention of a specific culinary scale that measures menthol concentration. 

Instead of a specialized scale, industrial users of menthol products seem to simply use the relative menthol content, such as selling an essential oil that with "60% menthol". And the general public doesn't seem to have created a cult around menthol content the way it has done for capsaicine content - personally, I know more people who care for the scoville number of the chilli they are eating than people who can tell the difference between spearmint and apple mint. 

I suspect that, while creating such a scale is possible, nobody has bothered to. And even if some food scientist did do it, it doesn't seem to have caught on, especially outside of professional circles.

A: Pardon my rampant vegerianism, but the trick is not to substitue meat at all.

I generally get my nutrition from other sources, without using meat substitutes at all.
Unless I really feel like a certain recipe that I used to like back in my meat-eating days.

Use beans, lentils and whole grains for protein.
Use nuts, seeds and avocadoes (or any other fatty fruits and vegetables) for B-vitamins.
Use beans (again) and leafy greens for iron and calcium.

So, it turns out my answer is a bit Zen.  Sorry.

A: Yes!

Sugar is often used as a "wet" ingredient in baking.  That means it needs to be dissolved in the water in order to prevent too much gluten from being produced (making the result fluffy/flaky, and not chewy).  Different sugars hold different amounts of moisture (for example, brown sugar holds more than white) and using sugar with crystals that are too large (or too small) will make the texture come out completely wrong.  Too small and your cake will be rubber; too large and your biscuit will fall apart.

Also, if you're using the sugar for creaming (with fat), you generally need to use a coarser sugar.  Superfine sugar will dissolve too quickly and won't allow enough air to be incorporated.  Confectioner's sugar is good for creaming but has completely different properties from crystal sugar - it's been "processed" and has cornstarch added, so you can't just substitute in equal quantities.

Of course, it goes without saying that the taste is different as well.  But even more important than the taste are the solubility characteristics which, as explained above, will have noticeable effects on other parts of the recipe.

It does depend what you're baking; if the sugar is being used purely for flavouring, then you can use whatever sugar you like.  Much of the time in baking though, sugar is used for more than just sweetening, and it's important to be aware of that.  If the sugar is being creamed or dissolved, don't substitute unless you're sure you know what you're doing.

A: The notion that salt or spices specifically don't scale linearly sounds like nonsense to me.  In any recipe involving salt and water, the salt is dissolved, so all that matters is the concentration, and that concentration is going to be the same with linear scaling.

Scaling in general is problematic when scaling more than 2x or 4x.  When you take into account that:

- 

Recipes targeted at home cooks are imprecise to begin with and often use volumetric measurements that are sensitive to heat, humidity, and other environmental conditions, so the imprecision is magnified at larger scale;

- 

Larger portions of food may get cooked less evenly and/or at less consistent temperatures due to the volume/surface area ratio; that part is correct, but it has nothing to do with salt, it has to do with your equipment.  On the stovetop, most of the heat is coming from the bottom of the pan unless you use induction, and even in an oven you've got one or two heat sources radiating heat in a specific pattern.

- 

Cooking times are also going to vary due to changes in things like rates of evaporation.  The total amount of heat you're able to deliver at any given time generally does not increase as quickly as the amount of heat you need to deliver, so very often you need to increase cooking times.

I'm sure you probably already know all this, but the reason I'm pointing it all out is that I'm pretty sure that this odd-sounding assertion about non-linear salt/spice scaling is due to some mutation or misunderstanding of general scaling issues.

Probably, salt and spices are typically present in very small quantities in most recipes, and those quantities are already wild guesses much of the time, so the effect of compounding all this wild inaccuracy, especially with volumetric measurements, is actually pretty noticeable at large scale.  Scaling sucks with these ingredients because the initial quantities and scaling method are both nonsense.

Assuming you have a precise recipe that gives weight measurements, and you scale by weight, then you're not going to have any problems as long as you either cook it in batches or adjust your cooking time/temp accordingly.

I suppose I could be wrong, but I spent 20 minutes digging for some evidence to contradict my claims above and came up dry; you'd think that somebody would have presented some evidence if the claim were true.

A: Coffee beans have a natural oil in them. Often beans that have been roasted longer will have more visible oil on the surface. Not really an indicator of quality, though, but a longer roast will be darker, have a stronger flavor, and (paradoxically to some) less caffeine.

(At least, this is what I learned when slinging Cappuccinos at a Canadian coffee chain during my college years a long time ago. Someone correct me if I'm mistaken.)

A: Butter may look totally amorphous, but there's actually a fair amount of structure in the fat, in particular fat crystals that make it firmer. Melting it disrupts all that structure, and it can't regain it just by resolidifying, so the structure of previously melted butter really is different.

You might notice that this is similar to chocolate: if you take smooth, snappy tempered chocolate, melt it, and let it resolidify, the texture will often be grainy, soft, or even crumbly. That's also thanks to fat crystals, in that case in the cocoa butter.

To back up a bit, let's look at how butter is made. Churning is the most well-known step, but there's more:

- 

Aging (heating, cooling, and storing the cream). The cream is heated and cooled, with resting periods at various temperatures, which encourages formation of certain kinds of fat crystals. (The details of this process vary; for example different temperatures can be used depending on the hardness of the milkfat.)

- 

Churning. This damages the fat globules, causing them to release fat, which forms much of the mass of the butter and lets it collect into grains.

- 

Working/kneading. After draining off the buttermilk, the grains are kneaded together. This evens out small amounts of buttermilk trapped in the grains, and fat crystals can also come together into larger networks.

So the final butter actually has three forms of fat in it: fat crystals, free fat, and fat globules. The fat crystals make it firmer, and the free fat and globules make it softer. This also explains why butter isn't all the same texture. For example, from On Food and Cooking:

  

Feeds rich in polyunsaturated fats, especially fresh pasturage, produce softer butters; hay and grain harder ones. The butter maker also influences consistency by the rate and degree of cooling to which he subjects the cream during the aging period, and by how extensively he works the new butter. These conditions control the relative proportions of firming crystalline fat and softening globular and free fat.

So when you melt and resolidify butter, it's not just a simple solid to liquid to solid thing. You're disrupting the crystals, and potentially even rupturing a few more fat globules. That means a couple things:

- 

There's likely more free fat and less crystals, which explains why previously melted butter can be much softer than the original butter.

- 

The crystals that do remain or reform won't have the same structure as the original ones, since you didn't follow the same heating/cooling/storing regimen. That explains the graininess you noticed. It's possible that working/kneading the butter might even that back out to some extent.

The exact texture of your previously melted butter will probably vary, depending on how hot you melted it and how fast you cooled it afterwards.

A: Given the variabilities in "buttermilk" from place to place and time to time, you should get sufficiently equivalent results by substituting modern cultured buttermilk. That's the job it was designed to do.

Recipes from the early 19th century and before are notoriously vague. They were generally written more as reminders of something you already knew through experience, rather than detailed instructions for creating it from scratch. Quantities and temperatures were much harder to control, and so recipes basically assumed you'd recognize a dough with enough liquid or a sufficiently-roasted quail. (One of my favorite instructions from an 18th century cookbook: "Cook until it is enough".)

Given those wide margins, you should find that simply using cultured buttermilk will make the recipe work. It's true that it will lack the tiny bits of butter present in "true" buttermilk, but there isn't enough to have a radical effect on the result. The really important parts (dairy protein, water, acidity) are present, in about the same quantities they would be in true buttermilk.

You'd certainly notice the difference if you were to just drink it straight. If that's what you want, you're just going to have to find somebody who makes it, or do it yourself. I've found it's often available at the kinds of farmers markets that insist on local producers. Personally, I find it nasty, but YMMV.

So if you're trying to revive an old recipe, just start with commercial buttermilk. You're going to have to tweak it from there anyway. If it needs richness, add butter, but probably only a teaspoon per cup.

A: Well, let's start from the top. You mentioned "Jam and Pickles," but these are actually two very different environments for the growth of things like molds and bacteria.

In terms of jams (but also mold on foods in general)

Some people have already mentioned that you might be seeing something other than mold. If it IS mold, the USDA recommendation is to chuck it due to potential mycotoxins.

The USDA actually has a lovely table drawn up of recommendations for what to keep and what to toss when you do see actual mold in your food.

  

Jams and Jellies
  
  

Discard
  
  

The mold could be producing a mycotoxin. Microbiologists recommend against scooping out the mold and using the remaining condiment.

Personally, I recommend following the USDA's guidelines on eating (or more generally, not eating) food with mold. This doesn't mean I always do so myself (often if it's just a very small spot, I get annoyed and end up carefully scooping it out, even knowing I shouldn't), but it's what I'd be comfortable recommending to someone else. Honestly there's enough other ways to get food poisoning that are risky but may be deemed worth pursuing for achieving something you can't really get without taking that risk (and, ideally, ways to help mitigate those risks, like deep freezing with sushi, etc); I'm not really sure trying to not throw away some jam is one of them.

Granted, the picture doesn't look like mold to me, and I would tend to agree with the other comments regarding the picture in question likely being pectin or crystallization but it's honestly hard for me to tell for sure from that particular image, personally.

Pickles: mold or… Kahm?!

Obviously, when talking about pickles, you shouldn't be seeing pectin on the surface. But what you might see with a pickling process that can sometimes be mistaken for mold is yeast! Kahm yeast, to be precise, is a somewhat common pickling issue when things don't quite go perfectly. If it is Kahm yeast, it's considered harmless.

Still, most places recommend scooping it out as much as possible (within reason) rather than mixing it back in. Not because it's going to hurt you, but because it will affect the flavor if you stir it back in.

So that seems to be another point against the "always just mix it back in!" myth, if we start from the assumption that it formed based mostly on the mistaken identity of things like Kahm that aren't actually mold.

So how can you tell if you have mold or yeast? (or both??)

image credit: Cultures for Health - White Film on Cultured Vegetables

Mold usually distinguishes itself by appearing "fuzzy" (growing up from the surface a bit with fuzzy tendrils) as well as growing tendrils into whatever it is growing on/in (often these are not very visible, depending on the stage of growth, which is another reason to throw certain things out when they get mold infested, because it will be more than just on the surface). Kahm yeast, on the other hand, is usually described as looking like a relatively flat coating (that may have bubbles or ridges formed under it due to the fermentation process). Kahm yeast is always translucent (depending on thickness) white to light cream in color. Thicker cultures of Kahm yeast may appear less "flat" and more rough, but the basic principle still applies: it's not "fuzzy" like mold.

I did actually find one interesting picture that shows the growth of some mold on top of a culture of Kahm.

If you actually do have mold growing on something

…and not just some part of your jam separating out or Kahm yeast growing on your pickles, then no, stirring it back in is about the last thing you would ever want to do. If the mold is creating mycotoxins, you've just mixed them back in to the rest of the jam. Even if you did manage to kill the mold, the laced food could still poison you: mycotoxins are toxic chemicals produced by the mold and won't go away simply because the mold itself is (or appears to be).

Also, you've now helped the mold spread, even if at first it appears to be gone from the mixing process. Where there's mold you CAN see, there's usually mold you can't see yet. This is part of the reason for the recommendation to cut an inch around any mold growth on foods that are generally considered to be safe to eat after the mold on them has been properly removed, like cheese.

A: Do what professional chefs do: clean constantly.  

Put all of your ingredients out in an organized place.  Use them.  Put them away.  Clean the station.  

If you can, prepare.  Put stuff that is prepped back in the fridge until you need it.

Try to use the same few tools for the whole meal--cutlery, mixing bowls, cutting board.  Quickly rinse and re-use rather than multiplying utensils.

Aim for dishes that can be cooked in stages in the same pot rather than needing multiple pots or saucepans.

Try out dishes with fewer ingredients.  Great chefs can do wonders with 3, 4, or 5.  Maybe you don't need more complicated?

Put non-essentials away. Move the kettle and toaster to a shelf until you're done.  Use the sink as a repository for anything you're not using but might still need.

Use another room, too.  A nearby table could become your staging area, a place to put ingredients that are prepped, finished, or waiting to be used (so your work area isn't cluttered with them).

Just some ideas.

A: Okay, I did some more thorough searching and found Beki Cook's donut frosting recipe. Apparently my mistake was that I was letting them (the doughnuts) cool off, and according to the article: 

  

Glaze is the easiest way to sugar-up a donut. But there are a few things you need to remember. First and foremost... only glaze donuts when they're warm. If you do it when they've cooled the glaze just soaks in and get goopy.

A: Have you considered whiskey stones?

They are ice cold stones used in whiskey for the same purpose (to cool and drink whiskey without diluting the whiskey). You keep them in the freezer and use them exactly like ice.

A: Beef (and Lamb): The surface of beef is often contaminated with pathogens such as e-coli. However, the meat is very dense and the bacteria cannot migrate from the surface into the flesh. Therefore, beef is safe to consume once the external temperature exceeds, 160 degrees F. The internal uncontaminated meat is safe to eat raw.

Pork: Like beef the surface of pork needs to be fully cooked.  Unlike beef, pigs can harbor a parasitic roundworm called Trichinella spiralis. Infection with the worm is called trichinosis and can be fatal. This worm is killed when the flesh reaches 150 degrees F and is held there for several minutes. Therefore pork is safe to consume when cooked to medium. (Commercial pork in North America almost never has the roundworm present. Almost  every case (all?) of trichinosis in the last 15-20 years have come from undercooked wild boar or bear meat). Trichinella spiralis can also be killed by freezing (time and temperature dependent).

Chicken: Almost all chickens have Salmonella or Campylobacter present on the surface (at
least). However, chickens have a less dense flesh than pigs, sheep or cows. Therefore, the bacteria can migrate deep into the flesh. Also, the processing of chickens is much more invasive than the previously mentioned animals which also means the interior meat can get contaminated. This means the meat must be cooked to well done throughout.

Duck: With duck it seems to come down to a matter of processing versus chicken. Also, they are raised in a much less confined manner, which helps prevent the spread of pathogens. There is still a chance of getting a salmonella infection from undercooked duck but cooking the breast well done basically ruins it, so people take the (small) risk.

Ground meat: Grinding meat, by its nature, implies the surface and the interior is mixed. Therefore, one must assume the meat is fully contaminated and must be entirely cooked to well done.

A: Straight after it comes out of the pan it will usually be too hot to eat.  Regardless of resting or not, you can't fully taste things which are too hot, they need to come down to a comfortable temperature before you eat them.

Some things you can do to stop the meat being too cold when you serve it: 

- You can rest the meat wrapped in foil, this will stop it from getting too cool too quickly if you are not ready to serve once its had the time to rest.

- you can rest it and then warm it again before you eat it, either under a hot grill for a little, or in an oven.

- serve it with a hot sauce which will warm the meat

- serve it on a warmed plate which will stop it cooling more too quickly on the table

Although I think you are worrying too much about nothing IMHO.  Even once rested the meat will still be at a good temperature, especially as you have not cut it yet and most of the heat will be retained in the middle of the meat.

A: Here is a quote from the company that makes the registered trademark Baileys Irish Cream:

Baileys® is the only cream liqueur that guarantees its taste for 2 years from the day it was made, opened or unopened, stored in the in the fridge or not when stored away from direct sunlight at a temperature range of 0-25 degrees centigrade.

One of the keys to achieving this 2 year shelf-life is in our patented process of blending of fresh Irish cream with the spirits and the whiskey without the use of preservatives. The alcohol acts as a natural preservative for the product.

Under normal conditions of storage Baileys has a shelf-life of 30 months.

If you are concerned about a bottle of Baileys® please check the best consumed before date on the bottle - all bottles now carry a best before date. This number is located on the bottom left hand side of the back label. Example : Code 11 20XY would mean that we guarantee the product would taste perfect until that date (XY is the year 2 years from the date of manufacture)

(source).

The alcohol content is the sole preservative listed.

A: FuzzyChef gave a good answer. To add to this a bit, the reason it's good to cook potatoes in a cold oven or starting from a cold pot of water is so they cook more evenly. Otherwise the outside is more likely to overcook while the inside is still raw. It's more important in the case of boiling potatoes than in the oven which is a gentler cooking method. 

I'll also add that it takes most ovens quite a while to heat up and stabilize. I don't think this really matters so much for potatoes or especially bell peppers, but you definitely want to preheat for any kind of baking unless the recipe specifically says otherwise. 

If you are trying to char bell peppers, I'd suggest a pair of metal tongs over a gas range or a blowtorch if you have either of these. Or a grill. Or a baby dragon.

A: One technique, but not the only, is velveting. Here the meat is tenderized in an egg-white/cornstarch mixture for 20+ minutes, then cooked briefly (a minute) in oil or simmering water with a small amount of oil prior to using in stir fries. 

I've never velveted in straight oil but water/oil definitely gives the chicken that smoothness that Chinese Restaurants obtain and the shorter stir fry cooking time makes it much more tender. 

Super thin slicing (you'll need to cut the meat semi-frozen to get such thin slices), plus cutting across the grain also lead to tenderness.

A: This coating, which wipes right off and is indeed harmless, is called the "bloom" of the grape or sometime the "blush". As described here, (the wiki for Fermentation in winemaking), it contains trace amounts of natural yeast, though thought to be the result of ambient yeast rather than the result of growth process proper.

Here we find a more thorough answer,

  

It’s mostly harmless wax, says Kay Bogart, a winemaker who works in
  outreach for the University of California at Davis’s viticulture
  program. The grape plant produces it to protect the berries from
  moisture loss. It’s also often just plain old dust, adds Jim LaMar, a
  professor of wine sensory evaluation at California State University,
  Fresno. Until recently, winemakers believed the white stuff was
  yeasts, responsible for wine fermentation. Now they believe such
  yeasts are airborne. In any case, that white stuff isn’t pesticide
  residue. Which is not to say that there isn’t pesticide residue on the
  grape, so wash it anyway before you pop it into your mouth.

In the book Caravaggio: A Life Sacred and Profane by Andrew Graham-Dixon, we find of Roman mythology the following statement regarding Bacchus, the ancient god of wine and intoxication,

  

The bloom on the grapes, which dusts them with a layer of whiteness
  and dulls the reflected light caught in their opalescent skins, is
  echoed by the dry and whitish lips of the god himself.

A: This is what America's Test Kitchen (sorry, paywalled) has to say about it:

  

Sometimes baked potatoes can use a flavor boost. And instead of light and fluffy, most often they are dense and crumbly. We found that baking the potatoes on a bed of salt remedied these problems. Moisture that escaped the potatoes during baking was trapped in the enclosed pan, absorbed by the salt, and eventually reabsorbed by the potatoes, making their skins tender and their flesh light and fluffy. All we needed to do was fine-tune the variables. Using a hot oven and uncovering the potatoes toward the end of cooking ensured dry, crisp skin. A 13 by 9-inch baking dish provided plenty of space so that we didn’t have to crowd the potatoes, and 2 1/2 cups of salt allowed us to thoroughly cover the bottom of the pan.

I have found that salt roasting potatoes makes the skin crispy, without it getting hard. Like the above says, the potato itself seems fluffier. The way the salt seasons the potato is particularly nice as well. Incidentally, you can reuse the salt over and over again, so it's not as wasteful as it might seem when you first consider the method. You'll want to keep separate salt for things like this, though, since it picks up potato flakes and discolors a bit.

EDIT The ATK method calls for covering the 9X13 baking dish (for 4 potatoes and 2 1/2 cups of salt) tightly with aluminum foil and roasting at 450F (232C) for 1 1/4 hours. Remove foil, brush potatoes with oil, raise oven temp to 500F (260C) and continue roasting for 10-20 minutes, until potatoes are tender when pierced with a knife and the skins are glossy.

A: That pan is identical to the one used to make a Thai dessert that is made out of a coconut mixture. I live in Thailand and see them almost every day. It is called Kanom Krok and is very popular throughout Thailand.

A: There were certainly uses for egg whites that didn't involve eating them:

- 

Clearing beer and wine (using egg white as finings).  This isn't common any more, and anyway only uses one egg white to six gallons.

- 

As an adhesive in bookbinding and gilding, and as a size.

- 

In makeup:

- Wikipedia - ancient nail polish

- Royal Museums Greeenwich - as a skin treatment

- also various sources say as a base for rouge, foundation and other preparations, or to conceal wrinkles.

None of these would use a lot, of course.
I suspect that most leftover whites would have been used up in cooking. Apart from the obvious meringues of various types, they can be used:

- As an egg wash on pastry.

- In place of whole egg before coating something in breadcrumbs

- Finings are also used in clarifying stock (link is to an alternative method proposed by Heston Blumenthal).  Consommé was probably popular around that time; certainly Mrs Beeton, writing in England in the 19th century included several recipes.  While she mentioned that clarifying may be required, her consommé recipes don't call for the use of egg. Fannie Farmer's Boston Cooking-School Cook Book (1896) does explain this method, though without quantities.

- Or simply added to many things that use beaten egg (I use up half eggs, either half, in an omelette with whole eggs).  In fancy households that could mean servants' food - after all there are many low-effort ways of preparing egg.  In a smaller household, everyday meals could use them up, though quickly without refrigeration

They can also be fed to many domestic animals, but given that most animals probably lived on scraps, this is effectively discarding them.

A: Part of making butter is churning... the churning process introduces a ton of air into the butter. When you melt it, all of the air is released so you should never expect melted butter to return to the same state it was before it was melted. 

The air trapped in butter is what causes the lighter color you see... if you take softened butter and whip it (as the first step in baking cookies, for example), the butter will get even lighter in color.

The same thing happens with ice cream when it is melted... churning introduces air and melting releases that air... which is why you can't refreeze ice cream that has melted.

A: Well even for knives with no wood, a dishwasher is a very hostile environment. The reason is primarily for the blades. If you have quality knives that you care for, and plan to keep for many years, then it's just not worth it. It's just too easy for a knife to be jostled around and bang into other knives or silverware and get nicked.

You mention that you have a greater chance of getting cut when washing by hand. Well, there's a trick to that.

The easiest and safest way to wash a knife by hand is to press it flat against the side of the sink, then use your sponge/scrubber on the exposed side of the knife. Repeat for the other side. This keeps your blade safe, because the edge never touches anything. It also keeps your sponges and hands from being slashed to pieces by the blade.

Dry it immediately with a dish towel, using a pinching swipe from bolster to tip from the back of the knife.

A: Another high-volume specialist use for egg white was mortar. Specifically, it was used very frequently in the Middle Ages, in the standard lime and sand mortar: a 2017 study suggests that 6% egg albumen (I assume by weight) provides the strongest mortar.

It was not the only binding agent available to construction, but at least in the Middle East and in Europe, it was one of the most easily procured. Its role is to aerate the mortar, which is essential in preventing thermal contraction damage (ice or heat), and modify its hydration (usually by allowing a lower water-to-cement ratio, increasing strength and water resistance while still being workable).

The use of egg white in construction persisted into the late 19th century in the colonial Philippines. According to one report, this use of egg white in the buildings transformed native Filipino desserts.

A: With your longer description, I can understand where you are coming from and why you don't like this version of the dishes (and also why somebody else might prefer them). But the term "bland" you chose is unfortunate, and is predestined to create misunderstandings.

"Bland" is a word with a rather well-circumscribed meaning, and means that there is an absence of taste and flavor. To use your color analogy, "bland" would be applied most directly to something that is ecru colored, and, less fitting but still understood, to something that has its own color tone but so little pigment that it is still nearly white. For food, imagine maybe a pudding made with starch and water, nothing else, that would be a quintessential experience of bland food.

The experience you describe doesn't have a unique term, and the descriptive ones I can think of are non-technical. The most specific one I can come up with is "mingled flavors", although this one doesn't strongly evoke that the speaker disapproves of the extent of mingling. You can choose whatever you like and best reflects your own subjective experience. Some examples would be to call it "conflicting", "chaotic" or "overwhelming" taste combinations. Or, if you prefer to continue the metaphors from other senses, you can use "cacaphonous taste" or, more diplomatically, "lack of contrast".

I would also like to mention that your experience here does not validate hers, she is also just as right as you are, and finding a term will not lead to an agreement between you as to what the perfect dish should be. Every one of you has a set point for enjoyable taste, expects to find it in the dish, and is dissatisfied when the dish misses that point. What overwhelms your experience is well-rounded for her, and what is nicely focused to you is boringly one-dimensional for her. In keeping with your color comparison, insisting that only one of the two positions is "right" would be like insisting that painting like Franz Marc is "right" and painting like Caspar David Friedrich is "wrong", or the other way round.

A: If done right, you can use a combination of ice and hot beverage that will ensure that the ice cubes have melted almost completely once you have reached an equilibrium, i.e. a cold drink.

For my go-to ice tea, I use one full tray of ice cubes in my jug and pour the freshly brewed tea plus some sugar syrup and lemon right over it. In ratios, I need two parts of ice per three parts hot tea (by weigh) and end up with small ice cubes floating around. A little less ice would still give me a cool drink, but not ice cold, so depending on your preference, work from there.

This ratio also helps when calculating increased coffee strength - use 60-70% more coffee in your brew if your plan to dilute by pouring over ice. If you are using coffee ice cubes (hint: great way to not throw away leftover coffee), use your preferred ratio.

Time to do it:

Under seven minutes fror my iced tea (boil water, brew tea, add ice, simple syrup and lemon to the jug while the tea is steeping, pour tea over the ice, stir vigorously until the ice is melted, done), under two for iced coffee with my espresso machine (heat up machine, grind coffee, tamp, lock portafilter, add a cube or two of ice to cup, draw a double shot, done).

The difference to freezing coffee ice cubes is that it requires preparation (and they do get stale after a while) while I always have generic plain ice cubes in the freezer. I will however admit that coffee ice cubes in cold milk also makes for a nice summer drink.

A: Well there's a few things.

First, higher temperatures mean more volatile aroma and flavour compounds will be released, leaving a flatter-tasting stock.

Second, boiling means more motion within the liquid, which makes it harder to skim off the protein scum which forms on the surface while a stock is cooking. In addition, some of the scum will just become reincorporated into the stock via a process similar to emulsion.

Third, boiling induces faster breakdown of proteins and other particulate matter, leaving you with a cloudier end product. This is of course of very little concern for stocks which will end up incorporated into (opaque) soups or sauces.

Of the three, only the first is of any real concern to home cooks. The other two issues aren't a huge deal at the restaurant level (modulo need for clarity in consomme etc), particularly if the restaurant uses Superbags or algae filtration for clarifying stocks.

A: Salt is perhaps the most basic and effective flavour enhancer, and so it's fairly obvious why we have it on our dinner tables.

The popularity of pepper is down to the Romans, who were crazy about it. Thanks to the longevity of the Roman Empire, pepper was imported for hundreds of years, helping to establish it as the most popular spice, and keeping the price high.

Bill Bryson reports in At Home that:

  

When the Goths threatened to sack Rome in 408, the Romans bought them off with three thousand pounds of pepper.

A: I have done no testing of this at all but I was surprised to find on this site that they recommend trying a spoon full (or cube of) sugar.

  

Perhaps the easiest way of calming down a flaming mouth is by sucking on a sugar cube or holding a teaspoon of sugar in your mouth. This helps by absorbing the spicy oil that is coating your mouth, as well as giving you a different, strong taste to concentrate on. A bit of mind-trickery and science combined!

Other things I've eaten in the past include starches, like bread or rice.

Here's a fun infographic and most of the items on it are vegan:

from here

A: There is no rule that plant based food is safe to be eaten raw. Also, on a side note, the salmonella reasoning was somewhat misguided - not that it isn't a risk, but it isn't the reason why cookie dough is not intended for raw consumption.

When determining food safety, one doesn't ask "where will the bacteria come from", except in some very special cases (eggs are one of them). Bacteria, yeasts and mold spores are always present everywhere, on all surfaces in the kitchen, in the fridge, on our bodies, and in the air. The question is not "will it have bacteria", but "will bacteria grow in it".

And for the "will bacteria grow in it", the answer is by default "yes". For the answer to become "no", there has to be a special reason. For example, raw fruit and vegetables are still alive after picking and can resist bacterial infection (else they would have rotted on the plant). Dry foods such as ripe beans don't contain enough moisture for bacteria to grow. Preserved foods have had some necessary factor taken away. And so on.

Cookie dough doesn't fall under any of these exceptions. For all intents and purposes, it is a raw ingredient, which has to be cooked within 3-5 days of making, and stored under refrigeration in that time.

A: You can have raw chicken in restaurants in Japan - it's delicious.  Depending on where you live there may be better or worse food safety standards, but there is nothing poisonous about raw chicken itself.

By the way, sushi is a dish with vinegary rice.  The raw-meat dish is Sashimi. A picture of chicken sashimi:

You will note that in this photo the chicken is actually not raw but quite rare. The exterior of the chicken flesh is actually seared and cooked through several millimeters.

A: I have no idea about pickles, but if your jam has mold on top, the last thing you want to do is mix it into the rest of the jar.

If you just have a couple tiny spots of mold on top of the jam, or on the jar above the jam, you can even completely remove the mold (generously - i.e. excise a little bit extra all around the moldy patch too), & the rest of the jam can be still good.

However, your picture is of some odd looking mold. I wonder if it is really mold and not some other substance.

If that is jam - marmalade? - that white stuff might be something else that separates from homemade jam if it is old. Some kind of pectin or sugar content coming out of solution. It's often a little crunchy, and does not smell or taste moldy, nor is it ever "furry". Whatever that substance is, (not mold but other whitish exudate from jam) I do mix it in with the rest of the jar. But you have to be sure it's not mold, or that would ruin the whole jar.

If your picture is of pickles...I don't know what that white stuff might be.

A: It's a children's book, but The Popcorn Book by Tomie de Paola is actually a very comprehensive summary on the history and science of popcorn.

Popcorn pops because the kernels contain small amounts of moisture which, when heated, cook the starches inside the popcorn, causing them to rapidly expand and exploding out the kernel. (This is my basic understanding; I'm sure food scientist will have a more comprehensive explanation).

What this means is that popcorn has to have a few specific features:

- it must have some internal moisture

- it must have a hard outer shell holding in that moisture

- it must not be too moist

I imagine all varieties of "sweet corn", the type used for corn on the cob, would probably not work very well. I don't think it would dry very well, and I think the shell would be weak (a feature when marketing it as something for humans to consume)

Dent corn, the variety used for animal feed, would also probably not work very well. It is a tough kernel and I don't think it would have enough moisture to explode.

I very well could be wrong about this, but I doubt that popping these other types (and I'm sure there are many more) would make for good popcorn.

Interestingly, there are other grains which also pop very well, including sorghum and amaranth.

A: Just the other day I was watching an episode of the Great British Baking Show (sorry, don't remember which one), and they mentioned that egg whites were often used to stiffen clothing, something we'd do with starch today. That left an excess of egg yolks, which was supposed to be the explanation for why so many recipes back then used egg yolks.

A: The big difference between panko and "regular" breadcrumbs is that panko is more like flakes, so it creates a much different texture when used as a breading.

It's more similar to using cracker or cereal crumbs than regular bread in terms of shape, but the texture is more bread-like.

For a picture comparison, and explanation of how panko is made, see UpperCrustents's how panko is made.

The difference is lost when using it as a binder in something like meatballs ... similar to using flake salt vs. other shapes of salt.  So in some cases, using it might be considered pretentious.  (or just using whatever's on hand).

A: It's actually hard to hold when it's almost all the way cooked - it'll start getting gluey if you let it cool off, but could start scorching on the bottom if it's not stirred, and get too runny if you keep adding stock.

Mario Batali said that risotto isn't finicky in the middle - so you can cook it part way, cool it down (I think he said he spread it on sheet pans to cool quickly), then you can add hot stock and cook it from that point, so you've already got a 10 minute head start.

I've also been to a restaurant where it was only served on the hour and half-hour.

A: - Lick your finger

- Dip it in the jar

- Lick finger again.

If it tastes of:

- Soap: Soda

- Very faintly of soap and faintly of starch and slightly fizzes in your mouth: Baking powder

A: By rinsing, you can only remove stuff from the surface and slightly below. You need to remove molecules which sit in the pores of the stone.

Chemically, you are working against diffusion and adhesion. By washing with soap, you have deposited a number of molecules onto the stone surface, these have diffused into the numerous pores of the solid. Now, these molecules cling there by means of adhesion, which makes it really hard to get rid of them.

Thus, instead of just rinsing, let it sit in a bowl covered with warm to hot water. 
Heat and time will allow the molecules to slowly "come out of the cover" and go into solution instead. This is driven by the concentration of soap in the solution (you want little to none) and temperature (you want it hot!). Preheat the stone if you can.

Add a drop of oil to the liquid, and disperse by beating with a fork (or anything comparable - the idea is to have as many small droplets as possible). This will act as a trap for the soap molecules in the water and reduce the solute concentration - increasing the pressure for the remaining adhering molecules in the pores to go into solution. If possible, try beating foam, and if some foam forms, then remove that and introduce new oil.

I suggest somewhere around at least 30-40 degrees Celsius and a timeframe of 10-30 mins. 

These are just guesses. Also, depending on what material the stone is made of, there might be additional reactions and/or interactions involved that could require a higher temperature or longer times.

A: You definitely want to keep beans whole as long as possible. Ideally, grind just the amount you need right before you brew the coffee. Keep the whole beans airtight, and freezing probably isn't necessary unless you buy a month of beans in advance.

A: If it's really really really fresh chicken that's been well-raised and well-handled, sure you can eat it raw. As has been mentioned, chicken sashimi is not unknown. The same applies to pork, another meat we're usually taught to cook thoroughly (historical associations there - pork was long known as a carrier of worms if not properly cooked, but this is less of an issue in modern times with good pork).

You might want to consider long and hard who your guests are before you serve up chicken sashimi at a dinner party though.

A: They give a similar range of flavours, but in quite different proportions.  They’re all made from ground roasted or dried red peppers of some kind, so all of them involve some amounts of spiciness (chilli heat), fruitiness, earthiness, and other aspects of the flavour of roasted peppers.  Cayenne typically has much more of the hotter and sharper flavours among these. Paprika typically is much less hot, and more fruity and earthy (though there’s a wide range of varieties of paprika).  A very wide range of different styles are sold as “chilli powder” depending where you are, but typically they’re quite hot and a bit earthy, less sweet than paprika and less sharp than cayenne.

(“Chilli powder” can also mean a spice blend from Mexican/US cooking, which besides pure chilli powder may typically contain cumin, dried onion/garlic, oregano, salt, and other herbs/spices.  I’m assuming that you’re talking about pure chilli powder, not the blend.)

Since they have such closely related flavour profiles, you can usefully exchange them for each other in many recipes — it will change the result a bit, but will usually still work well.  E.g. if a recipe calls for cayenne but if you or your guests don’t like too much chilli heat, you can subsitute paprika to reduce the heat without losing the other aspects of the pepper flavour.

A: One of my favorite recipes is Giada De Laurentis' Wild Mushroom with Peas. It's rather simple, but amazingly delicious. 

The most common flubs when making a risotto are overcooking or dumping in all the liquid at once. I always use the wooden spoon test to determine when the risotto is finished.

First, stir often!

Periodically drag your spoon down the center of the pan as to part the risotto. If the path the spoon makes closes quickly then it isn't finished yet. If the part stays open, then you've overcooked it. Ideally it slowly oozes back together.

You're looking for two important things in a perfect risotto:

- Creamy

- The finished risotto should be creamy, not runny, and not gummy. The spoon test takes care of this.

- Tender

- The rice grains should be tender, not crunchy, and not mushy. You should taste frequently as you approach the end of the cooking time. You want the grains slightly al dente. You should know that you have rice in your mouth and not just a good tasting mystery-paste.

A: I can't see any reason for the marinating itself to make any difference. If it's safe to leave the (un-marinated) meat in the same conditions for the same length of time, then it's safe to marinate it for that long.

Five days in the refrigerator is definitely stretching it for chicken - usually no more than a few days is recommended, and that's assuming it was fresh when you bought it (not a day before the sell-by date).  Even if it's safe, it's not going to be very good.  I've accidentally left raw chicken in the refrigerator and forgotten about it before, and it started to smell "off" after about 4 days.  I hate to say it, but I wouldn't use it at this point.

As for the steak, you're probably okay, because you only have surface bacteria, but I would cook it well and right away.  Again, most cooks I know will recommend no more than a few days in the fridge.

P.S. I've heard people say that weak acids such as lime juice "preserve" the meat, but never from a reliable source; even if it worked, every marinade is different and it would be nearly impossible to predict the exact amount of time it preserves for.  You have no idea how much bacteria existed at the outset, and even if the marinade somehow helped to inhibit growth of new bacteria, the "spoiled-ness" of raw meat doesn't come from the bacteria itself but from the toxins they leave behind.  It's not a requirement for the bacteria to multiply in order for the food to spoil, if enough existed in the first place.

Unless somebody has it on good authority that marinating makes any significant difference, I refuse to put any stock in that bit of folk wisdom and recommend that others be equally skeptical.

A: Many modern smoke/fire detectors have the ability to temporarily disable or decrease the sensitivity of the alarm for a short period of time, usually 15 or 20 minutes. At the end of the time period it returns to full sensitivity.

You may want to look into replacing your smoke detector with one of these.

A: Optimal yeast growth happens at around 37 degrees Celsius (98.6 degrees Fahrenheit), but dough will rise at any room temperature. As the temp rises, the yeast becomes more active, which is why you'll sometimes see recipes call over overnight rests in the fridge, where activity slows or stops. Yeast dies at anything above 50 C (122 F).

The important thing is knowing the temperature and, if you're really particular, the humidity in the air around your proof. This information is used for the sake of timing consistency, more than anything else.

A: Personally, I would argue that 2 and 3 are actually the same, and they are your answer.

If you heat a pan of water you'll notice the bubbles forming before the water is actually boiling, hence the talk of between not bubbling and full on roiling.

Also, when you're making your soup, it isn't pure water, so the boiling temp will not be a perfect 100 degrees C in any case.

So, I would say, that simmering is when you keep it just under a full boil. Watch what you're cooking, there should be gentle movement, but not a full roiling pan of whatever it is you're cooking.

To get something simmering away, you need to bring up to a full boil, then reduce the heat until you're getting movement, but not full bubbling.

A: There is some real science on this. See http://naldc.nal.usda.gov/download/15684/PDF

When frozen to −20°C butter can last 1 year with no real change in quality

A: It is possible, but only if you do not want it to act as glue.

  

are the chemical processes of boiling an egg and cooking it inside the dough fundamentally different?

As mentioned in earlier answers - no, but the point is that you need these processes during baking.

One notable exception is shortcrust pastry

You can use boiled egg to bake it. It is meant to be crusty, fragile. That's why you mix flour with fat first - to prevent gluing. When you use a boiled egg yolk instead of raw one, you have one less factor for gluing. It's easy to make pastry too delicate that way, but it is doable. I did it with success.

A: I can say, as a salt snob, that sea salt is a far more flavorful product. I can't even use regular table salt anymore. 

Sea salt is salt formed from evaporated sea water, is not iodized, and because it doesn't come from salt mines requires very little processing. Some people will say that because it's "natural", sea salt must be better for you. The mayo clinic seems to disagree: http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/sea-salt/AN01142

A: There is no substitute for salt. Sorry. It has effects on the tastebuds and the body that cannot be replicated.

However! They can be approached to a degree that most people will find interchangeable. Acids can mimic the flavour-enhancing qualities of salt in a big way. The more acid you have in a dish, the less salt you will need. Beware of going too far, of course, as too much acid is just unpleasant and will need salt to counterbalance.

Heat--as in capsaicin, chili peppers--can produce much the same effect.

Echoing papin's information above; NA and K (sodium and potassium) exist in balance in the body. Too far in one direction and you have a heart attack (too much K), too much in the other and (if memory serves; I could be wrong) you essentially drown (or is it edema? I can't remember). If avoiding sodium is related to a health concern, please speak to your primary healthcare provider before adjusting your diet in this way.

Q: Fish and cheese: An unbreakable rule?

I always wondered about this seemingly static rule: 

  

Never add cheese (especially, but not limited to parmigiano reggiano) to a dish with fish. 

Italians would never, ever add parmigiano reggiano to a pasta with fish. But they have many other fixed views on food (e.g. sweet and savoury is a no-no, which is allowed at least in Austria and Japan).

I obliged until now, but I wonder where this rule comes from. To be honest, I would never add cheese to frutti di mare, but I'm open to trying other combinations. Is there some evidence that the two ingredients don't mix well? I hear there are some exceptions: Tuna with parmigiano reggiano is okay, but I only tried that as a salad and it was good. Also, I once saw a recipe of fish with mascarpone. 

  

Did you ever have a professional cook serving you fish with cheese? 

Please, I'm not interested in your personal opinion, but I'm trying to understand the rule and the exceptions.

EDIT:

Status update: Thanks for the brainstorming so far. I'm collecting the intermediate results:

- Most importantly: It seems to be a regional thing (w/ Italy at its heart)

- @Walter, @TFD and @Joe all agree on tuna as the prime counter example.

- However, they disagree on the reason: We have @TFD's opinion, that tuna is strong and thus is not outplayed by strong cheese and @Walter's italo-centric opinion, that tuna is a particularly 'unfishy' fish.

- @Carmi mentions umami as one/the possible reason.

- 

@Todd has entered the discussion and disputes the highest voted answer: The umami claim by @Carmi. I'm delighted, because I'm still cautions about umami.

- 

If you provide further examples, please include a detailed descriptions and a reason why you think the particular combination is a "allowed".

I would be extremely interested in opinions that favour the motion/rule. Is there anybody willing to take a stance and (maybe even) explain the origin?

And what about seafood with cheese? Is it unthinkable?

Q: How long can eggs be unrefrigerated before becoming unsafe to eat?

A friend of mine accidentally left a carton of eggs on her counter, unrefrigerated, for three days. The eggs had been previously refrigerated both at the store and at home. Now she's planning to do some more cooking which requires eggs, and is wondering if it's still safe to use them for baking. I believe she is planning on baking cookies with them, so they would be baked at fairly high temperatures for probably at least 10 minutes. Would this be safe, or are eggs left unrefrigerated for that long not safe for consumption?

Q: What is the difference between pizza sauce and spaghetti sauce?

Pizza sauce and spaghetti sauce are both tomato-based, have roughly the same seasoning (Italian) and look a like. However, I (and a friendly user here) think there is a difference between the two. So what is it? Or isn't there one and you can interchange the two without a weird feeling or taste?

Q: How much to reduce salt when using salted butter in place of unsalted butter

I normally don't keep unsalted butter on hand since I use it so seldom. So when a recipe calls for salt and unsalted butter among its ingredients would it be alright to use salted butter and reduce the amount of salt? And if so, by how much should the salt be reduced? In other words, how much salt is typically contained in a tablespoon, ounce or gram of salted butter?

Q: How long is garlic butter safe, and why is it not a botulism risk like garlic in oil?

I've been making garlic butter for years, storing it for months at a time. When I read that garlic-in-oil can grow dangerous amounts of botulinum toxins after similar lengths of time, I wondered how safe garlic butter is and why. 

Evidently, the safety warnings specifically target storage in oil. I couldn't find a satisfactory explanation for butter not being mentioned with a preliminary search. The first Google result turns up a grossly unhelpful Yahoo! Answers page whose sources do not mention butter at all.

To the point: is garlic butter safer than garlic-in-oil, and why? Is butter not also an anaerobic environment, so that the same precautions should apply as with oil?

Q: Are limes and lime juice more acidic than lemons and lemon juice?

I attended a business meeting in the Midwest and one of our clients took our management team and a few other business partners to dinner at an awesome Mexican restaurant. When the appetizers were served I commented that it was a wonderful presentation and that everything looked very fresh, including the avocado slices. 

Speaking to the woman seated across from me I said that even though I use a good amount of lemon juice, whenever I prepare avocados they still turned dark pretty quickly. This happens whether they are sliced, used in guacamole, etc. She responded that the secret is to use lime juice. She proceeded to tell me that she was born and raised in Central America and that it is customary there to use fresh limes or juice rather than lemon.

I have tried it and lime seems to work much better than lemon, so it would stand to reason that they are more acidic. However, I never thought there was that much difference. So, on to the questions.

Are limes more acidic than lemons? Are there any other differences in their properties that could make a difference?

Q: Will Cinnamon ever dissolve in a cocktail?

I have this idea, that making a cinnamon, vanilla and brandy cocktail would be delicious,
and it is.
But it is also kinda grainy.

What I have been doing:

In a 500ml glass,
add 15m brandy, add 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon powder, add 1-2 teaspoons vanilla extract, add a few tablespoons of sugar (Still working that out).
Then I stir it vigorously with a fork, and I top it with soda water.

This tastes good, but there are still grains of cinnamon visible,
and when I get to the bottom of the glass I can feel them in my teeth (that is to say, there are more grains lower down -- they sink to the bottom maybe).

- Is cinnamon soluble at all? 

- Is trying to put it into a liquid just not something I should do at home? (I have seen online cinnamon syrups) 

- Should i be trying to dissolve it in water instead of alcohol?

Q: How should I keep the vegetables from flying off the board when I cut them?

Whenever I chop veggies like onions or carrots they sometimes just fly off the chopping board into the open space of the kitchen. Carrots do that especially often &ndash; I cannot chop them (dicing is also problematic) without the occasional pieces flying off the board.

What am I missing here? I try to imitate Jamie Oliver and Gordon Ramsay chopping videos bit by bit.

Q: Salad packaged with raw meat: is it safe?

Sometimes I see in supermarkets (in Italy) packages in which rocket salad is sold together with raw beef, like in this picture:

This is clearly meant to be prepared in the form of tagliata con rucola, an Italian dish made with beefsteak cut in stripes and rocket:

As you can see, the salad is normally served raw with tagliata. The supermarkets seem OK with that, but this practice triggers my food safety alert: is it safe to consume salad that has been in contact with raw meat? Should I worry about eating it?

EDIT: further information:

- these packages are found in the refrigerator aisle.

- the bottom label says (among other things) "store at 0--4 degrees Celsius [32-39 Fahrenheit] -- cook before eating". It is not clear from the wording if this warning applies to the salad as well.

- the label in the top right says "20% discount -- the marked price already includes discount". It doesn't specify if it is discounted for quick sale or for other reasons. In any case, I have also seen regular packages without the discount tag, and with the current day marked as packaging date.

- It is not customary here to put salad or other edible items as decoration -- I have never seen this done with other fresh food on sale.

- upon request, full translation of the white sticker. The notes in brackets are mine.

Il gigante [supermarket name] - the fresh food specialists. Corso Marche [address of the supermarket]

Net Wt 0.354 kg   price 4.43 EUR

tare 0.032        EUR/Kg 12.50

prepackaged on: 04 August 2014

Tagliata con rucola [name of the dish, see picture above]

Meat preparation NC16 [not 100% sure about the code, it's blurry. No idea what it means, I assume it's some bureaucratic category for the meat]

Ingredients: bovine meat, rucola, sunflower oil, salt

Store at 0-4 degrees [32-39F]. To be consumed after cooking. Cooking suggestions: in pan, 3 minutes each side. In oven 175 degrees [350F] for 30 minutes. Produced and prepackaged for immediate sale by "Il gigante", Turin.

- Note that I did not take this picture myself; this one comes from the internet. I can take a similar one the next time I visit my local supermarket, but it's probably going to be 7-10 days from now.

Q: Why do shrimp / lobster / crab turn pink or red when cooking?

Cooking is a form of chemistry - so there must be a scientific reason behind this.

Why do all crustaceans turn pink or red when cooked?

Q: Why is putting hot milk in a thermos not recommended?

A colleague of mine just got a new thermos (inox), this model, and actually read all instruction, and we were surprised to read that it is not recommended to pour hot milk in the thermos. 

My opinion was that:

- Unlike tea of coffee, a lot of micro-organisms live in milk, will end up being a favorable place for those micro-organisms to generate a culture (which will be more and more difficult to get rid off, and will contaminate any other fluid poured in the thermos)

- If you don't wash it straight away, it will really stink.

- The milk being full of water-insoluble proteins/fat, it will "coat" the internal thermos walls (gross!) - I've already seeing that "coat" forming in plastic containers, and I guess it won't be any different in inox containers.

I've actually not found an answer online, so I thought that here I could find some experts. I realize this could be a cross-question for Biology SE, but I felt it more food-related.

Q: What are some good ways to treat frozen vegetables such that they behave like fresh vegetables when stir frying them?

Forgive me for being a novice. I like having frozen spinach, onions, broccoli, and vegetables since they're convenient and don't spoil. But I only know the practices for cooking, and in particular, stir frying fresh vegetables. As a basic example, you heat up the oil, toss in the onions/garlic, then the leafy greens (with maybe some salt to reduce them), then the other veggies like broccoli.

How can I treat the frozen veggies such that they behave and cook like normal freshly chopped vegetables? One thing in particular is I like them getting seared by the hot oil.

The only method I have now is to microwave them for a bit (with perhaps a bit of water), and then to use them when they seem sufficiently unfrozen, but this usually leaves 30% of it frozen, 40% fine, and 30% vaporized by the microwave. 

Any advice? Bonus points for speed, convenience, and simplicity (I'm a lazy college student who likes using pre-chopped vegetables and only one cooking vessel).

Q: What is "layering flavors"? What does it accomplish and how do I do it?

Recently I've been into cooking videos and tutorials and something that stands out to me is this concept of "layering flavors" that some chefs use when they add ingredients.

Example:

We're only sweating the onion, afterwards we'll add some garlic and that way we'll have a nice base layer to work with, remember its all about layering flavors

What? What does that mean? How is layering flavors going to help? Is it going to change taste as you chew? Or is it just a fancy way of saying it’s going to have a bit of added taste and it’s going to be wonderful?

And how do I do it? The only thing I see is people adding ingredients to a sauce and cooking them in some way.

Q: What are the names and purposes of these six kitchen knives?

My longtime neighbor had this collection of six GONON-GIRONDE high-carbon steel knives that she inherited from her mother. I thought that they were incredible, and must be wonderful to use.

Sadly she passed away, and her husband, who does not cook, knowing that I coveted the knives, gave them to me. They are a joy to use, and I think of her every time I get one of them out. The patina on them was there when I received them, and knowing that they are high-carbon steel, and stain easily, I clean and dry them immediately after each use. I also bought a nice whet stone set which permits me to put an exceptional edge on the blades.

I've assigned a number to each knife in the attached photo, and I would like to know the formal name and purpose of each knife. I am assuming that numbers 3-5 are chef knives, and that's how I use them. And I recognize number 2 as being the style of knife often used to carve smoked brisket here in east Texas (and it performs that task perfectly), but I am pretty confident that there's more to it than my simple observations. In additional, I am keen to know the name and purpose of numbers 1 and 6. (By the way, number 6 has a sharp edge, so I doubt that it is a bread knife.)

Any information that can be offered will be gratefully appreciated.

Q: What are the pros and cons of storing bread in various locations?

Why should/shouldn't I store my bread in the fridge/freezer/breadbox/plastic bag/etc?

Q: Is there an alternative to condensed milk?

In Denmark we don't have condensed milk in our regular stores and I've actually only seen it in an UK-import store a few years ago. Is there an alternative to it or can you craft it with regular cooking equipment?

Q: When is it necessary to cover food with aluminum foil during baking/roasting?

Often a recipe calls for covering a dish while it bakes. I understand that this can help to trap steam.

How do you know when it's necessary to use aluminum foil when baking a dish without a recipe? 

What are the other advantages of using aluminum foil to cover your dish while it's baking?

Q: What do "virgin" and "extra virgin" mean in regards to olive oil?

I have seen the terms "virgin" and "extra virgin" on bottles of olive oil. What do these terms mean, and how do they affect the flavor and cooking properties of the oil?

Q: How can I get my bread to be more fluffy and less dense?

I've been making bread for a while now, but I can never get it to rise enough. The bread comes out really dense, so it's not very useful for sandwiches. I give it ten minutes after kneading, bash it down again, then another hour before baking. I've tried adding sugar as well but this hasn't made much impact.

Q: Does searing meat lock in moisture?

I just saw a claim to this end in another thread, and it is perpetuated about the internet and in many cookbooks.

So: Is it true? Does making a nice crust (maillard reaction) on a roast seal in juice and yield a juicer end product?

Q: What's the purpose of a bread box?

For some reason I always thought bread boxes were supposed to be wood, and that some property of wood helped keep bread fresh.  Like a cigar box, perhaps.  But after looking for a bread box, I see that many are plastic and metal.  Before I buy a bread box, I should probably understand what exactly I'm purchasing.

What is a bread box for, and do all types of bread boxes accomplish the intended purpose?

Q: How to keep my (deep frying) oil usable as long as possible?

I have a new deep fryer. I am pleased with its results so far. I am not a 'heavy user' though - say once every 2-3 weeks. I want to re-use the oil a couple of times. The deep fryer is covered but not airtight, however.

The new deep fryer has a cold zone, which means the oil won't become dirty due to particles over-frying. I don't overheat the oil either. So, in principle, I'm frying correctly, I think.

So, how long can my oil safely sit in the deep fryer, if I ensure it's thouroughly heated next time I fry? Should I be allowing the oil to cool and store the fat in (sealed) containers instead, if there's going to be this long a gap between uses?

Edit: yes, I've seen this question and answers: Frying Oil Reuse

Q: Is it safe to eat freshwater fish raw?

According to this question freshwater fish should not be used in Ceviche--why not?

Q: Can I boil eggs in the same pot I'm boiling something else?

I know cooking the eggs kills the salmonella and that the risk is small even for raw eggs. However, I stopped boiling the eggs in the same pot I'm boiling something else, like potatoes, when I learnt the salmonella is in the shell.

Obviously, I'm not eating the shell and the eggs are washed. I wonder if I can boil everything in the same pot or not.

Q: Botulism, Garlic, Cold pressed Olive oil and mason jars

I make a product I invented called Maybe It's Marinade. It consists of cold pressed extra virgin olive oil and pressed garlic as the base and comes in three varieties, AoliOliO, Dill, and Cayenne Pepper. All varieties also include garlic powder and pinch of salt. I package it in a 250 ml mason jar. I also place the jar in a cellophane bag as part of its packaging. Recently, a public inspector noticed the product and sunk his teeth into it concerning Botulism risks.

I've been making this for eighteen years. No one has ever gotten sick. I designed the product to be stored in the cupboard. Using cold pressed extra virgin olive oil I have never found the product to become awful, discolored, or smelly and I have set some aside in my house on several occasions for months and tested it on myself and found nothing wrong.

The product is not a method of storing garlic in the oil, with the other ingredients in the recipe, it becomes a bread dipping oil, cooking ingredient, and an addition to pasta sauce.
The use of the mason jar provides a lid that is secure, but also very reusable and easy to open. I do not fill the oil to the top, so that the product can be shaken. It's a very interactive product in that it's spoon accessible, if that makes sense.

Can you provide some sort of pro and con overview? I only see articles on storing garlic in oil, not as an ingredient in a recipe. If there's a chance I will make people sick after eighteen years, I may have to stop making it.
Thanks a heap.

Q: Why did my Turkey Stock turn into gelatin?

We took our left-over turkey carcass and parts and simmered them for a few hours with water in a pot with some herbs and veggies.  After removing the solids, and separating the fat, we placed it in the fridge to be frozen the next day.  When we pulled it out, the entire bowl - not just the top - was completely gelatinous.  It is truly like Jello.  

Is this OK?  Why did this happen? 

We plan to vacuum seal and freeze it if safe.

Q: How do we escape the cycle of bad college eating?

Mouseover text: And yet I never stop thinking, 'sure, these ingredients cost more than a restaurant meal, but think how many meals I'll get out of them! Especially since each one will have leftovers!'

Randall Munroe really hit the nail on the head with this comic and especially the mouseover text. There's this sort of cycle that I seem to follow when I try cooking, and I need to get my way out of it. It goes like this:

- Decide I should cook something.

- Thumb through my recipe books, find one or two recipes I like.

- Write down the ingredients for the recipes in a list.

- Go to the grocery store, stumble around for a while and eventually find exactly those ingredients.

- Go back home; at some point in time soon after, cook each recipe.

- Whew, that was a lot of work! Spend the next week or two eating junk again, until I decide I should cook something. (repeat)

Very similar to the comic; sometimes I too let the leftovers go bad (usually not). And every time I rack up a huge bill at the supermarket and think to myself it's justified because of the leftovers or the amount of food. Not to mention, that's a lot of work for just a couple of meals, and a long list of ingredients.

I love cooking fresh meals but that's just so much overhead and so time consuming! So I always resort back to Easy Mac, Ramen, frozen dinners and frozen pizza. Yuck.

How can I escape this cycle and cut down on the overhead? How can I focus on more than 2 recipes at a time without buying giant lists of ingredients and spending tons of money? Is it really worth the trouble or should I just chock it up to being a college student and wonder about the years ahead of me where I'll have much more time to spend cooking one meal at a time?

Q: Why does a microwave rotate the food being cooked? And is there ever a time when it shouldn't rotate?

Most microwaves I've used have a plate at the bottom that rotates when the microwave is running. I presume that rotating helps more evenly heat the food.

Interestingly, my microwave rotates by default but has a button you can press to disable the rotation. Under what circumstances or scenarios would you want to stop the microwave from rotating the food?

Q: How long is it safe to drink coffee after brewed?

How many hours/days would you recommend to drink coffee (after brewed) and consider it safe? (For example if you don't want to waste it). What is the difference if it is refrigerated or not?

The question is not about flavor since (I think) it is probably ruined after at most a couple of hours.

Q: When to use convection/fan bake vs bake

Are there any general rules to follow when choosing between bake and fan bake to cook something in the oven? What effect does each have and what are the advantages and disadvantages of both?

Q: Should I buy steel or ceramic knives?

I am soon to be moving to a house with a very nice kitchen, and so the time has come for me to buy myself a proper set of knives. I have been looking around at the various types available. There seem to be cheaper steel knives with plastic or wooden handles (e.g. from normal homeware stores), pro-range solid steel knives (e.g. Global) and also ceramic knives. As much as I'd like to buy something like the Global knives, they are quite expensive and so I've been looking at what else is out there.

While I'm pretty sure the pro-range steel knives will outperform the cheap steel knives, I have no idea how good ceramic knives are. 

- 

Are there reasons why I might want to choose ceramic over steel or vice versa? 

- 

What are the things to look out for when buying knives?

Q: What happens when you mix whiskey and water?

It is sometimes said that to best experience the flavor and aroma of a good whiskey (or whisky), one ought to add a bit of water. This practice is said to release flavors somehow.

- Is there any truth to this?

- Assuming that there is, what is going on?

Q: What does al dente really mean?

Initially I was told that al dente meant that the pasta was cooked but still firm, definitely not soggy or overcooked.  Later, someone told me that it meant not quite cooked all the way through. Actually many people began telling me this. In addition, they would also tell me that it was silly to make such a request because no one in their right mind would eat pasta this way.

So what does al dente really mean?

Q: How does soaking liver in milk work?

Soaking liver in milk is said to be a common technique that supposedly helps to remove impurities, softens flavour, and tenderises the liver. 

I tried it, and the liver turned out alright, but it got me wondering: how does this work? What's the chemistry behind it? Exactly what's happening between the milk and the liver? 

Is it the acid in the milk tenderising the liver? That would mean I could soak liver in a marinade based on lemon juice or vinegar? (It doesn't seem like a terrific idea) 

Or is there something else involved? I searched around, but nothing I found seemed terribly exact.

Q: Coca Cola's Secret Recipe

If only two executives know the secret recipe of Coca Cola at any one time, and it is so well guarded, then how do they manufacture Coca Cola in plants without giving away this secret to the workers?

Q: Will spoiled food always make you sick?

Kind of a strange question, but say something has spoiled, i.e. smells bad, tastes bad, etc.

Will it actually always make you sick? Like for instance spoiled dressing, let's say it tastes sour, smells nasty and you eat it, will it make you sick?

If so what actually makes you sick? The toxins/bacteria? or it just being unappetizing?

I ask because I tried a TINY bit of ranch and while it tasted mostly fine (it was a bit tangy) it smelled quite tangy but looked fine. I also saw this article about people eating bad food and not getting sick.

Q: What's the difference between hollandaise, mayonnaise, and a&#239;oli?

I was following a recipe by Gordon Ramsay, that included a hollandaise. 
However while making it I couldn't help but think I was making a warm mayonnaise. 

This brings me to my question: What's the difference between mayonnaise, hollandaise, and aïoli? 

(Gordon Ramsay did say he was making a "modern version" of hollandaise using olive oil instead of butter, so I expect what he did isn't a hollandaise in the usual sense?)

Q: Why use a kettle to heat water?

Whenever I need to heat up water for a French press or hot chocolate, I do it in the microwave. Is there a good reason to use a kettle instead of the microwave to heat water?

Q: Why does diluted half & half not make a substitute for whole milk?

I noticed that cutting half & half with water does not make it taste like whole milk. What is the reason for this? 

I'm trying to apply some systems thinking to my understanding of ingredients.

Q: How can I tell the difference between unmarked sugar and stevia?

My wife just started back on her doctor-recommended ketogenic diet (due to a medical history of high blood pressure and Crohn's disease in her family). She's to have reduced carbohydrates and sugars, and to use artificial sweeteners for anything she would normally add sugar to. 

While making our morning coffee, I found a clear plastic container with what looks like stevia stored away - a taste confirms that it has a slightly different taste than the sugar I have on hand.

But I want to be absolutely sure before I recommend she use it in her baking - is there any surefire way to tell if this is stevia and not sugar?  

Note: It may also possibly be Truvia.

Q: What is this plant I saw for sale at a Romanian farmer's market?

I was at an agricultural market in Baia Mare, Romania and several vendors were selling this plant that looks like the tips of a pine tree. I didn't ask for a name and didn't handle it, so I can't tell you much beyond that each cluster of needles was about the size of a finger. Here's a picture:

Q: What exactly is "Japanese" Salt and Pepper?

On a recent trip to Kyoto, I was eating at a Beef Katsu restaurant and one of the spices they made available for seasoning was described as "Japanese salt and pepper".

The spice blend was mostly white/black/gray in color, with no red.

The blend had really excellent flavor (compared to what I would expect for salt + black pepper), and now I'm curious what exactly it was composed of and whether it has a more distinctive name. Does anyone know?

Q: Why do Chinese grocers advise cutting and discarding flowers in Chinese vegetables?

Many times when buying Kai Lan:

and Choi Sum

Chinese shop staff heartily say

  

Cut flowers. Don't eat them. Flowers have insects.

- 

Are they correct? How do the flowers harm you? 

- 

Were they referring to  pollinators that land on those flowers?

Q: What are the tiny white self-moving objects on pasta?

So, a lot of pasta I've bought lately came with some white substance. At first it looked like uncooked starch or something. But when looking closely I noticed it was MOVING ON ITS OWN.

After a while this incident repeated a couple times. Even when buying pasta from other factories, they have that self-moving white substance.

So... what is it?

On penne for example, in the "channels" that the pasta have, the white stuff collects there. It is quite tiny and long, and clearly alive.

Q: What could this utensil pair be used for?

The photo is of a utensil found in a European (French) kitchen. What is its use?

The knife is 7 inches (18 centimeter) long.

Q: Why do Brussels sprouts only taste good when cut?

My mom always used to cook or steam Brussels sprouts whole. I always hated them and still do now if they are prepared that way. They tend to get a very sharp, slightly bitter vegetable taste, similar to over-boiled fennel.

But on the other hand, then cut in halves or quarters they taste amazing. Especially fried in butter/olive oil, but also when boiled, with a hint of lemon juice I started to absolutely love them.

I was wondering why that is that they do not develop that distinctly disgusting flavour when they are cut?

I have some theories, but I would love to hear your thoughts on this:

- Maybe by the time the centre is cooked the outer part is already overcooked.

- The caramelisation that happens much more on the cut side makes them taste better. Perhaps the sweetness from that overtones the bitter flavour?

- Or is there actually some chemical compound in Brussels sprouts that can not evaporate when they're whole?

Q: What kind of pickle was this?

A while ago, I ate a charcuterie board that had, among other things, a strange pickled vegetable that I had never seen before and have not heard of since.

I say vegetable but it was probably a fruit.

- It was green and round, only a bit larger than a nickel.

- The pickle came with a thin hard stem attached to it, like a green bean's stem, only longer and thinner. I'd say it was about 2 inches and attached to the fruit with a very small cap (or calyx according to Wikipedia)

- It had large hard seeds inside it, I think there were 8 in there. They reminded me of guava seeds.

- It had lighter green striations running across parallel from the stem.

- The taste was hard to describe. Vegetal like kale and sweet like a sweet pickle. It was pickled so I don't know how much of that taste was inherent in the plant and how much was the pickle.

Does anyone know what kind of pickle I ate?

Q: Why doesn't Greek cuisine use a lot of spices, compared to neighbors?

According to what I know almost all countries in the Mediterranean which surround Greece use a lot of spices in their cuisine. Greece itself has been occupied by such countries for hundreds of years. There has always been trade and travel between Greece and the other countries. So how come spices aren't being used that much at all?

Compared to say, Turkey, or Italy, Greek food is not spicy at all. I am not saying this is a bad thing, or that it is bland - I just find it curious that over the millennia no significant use of spices has developed like it did in Italy, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Turkey, Bulgaria. Out of those countries most use a lot of spices including capsicums, and the few ones that don't, still use a lot of spices (like say Syria).

It's known that even in antiquity spices were known in Greece and used for medical reasons. This makes it even more curious. Are there any historical reasons for that perhaps?

Thanks.

Q: How can I curate ingredients for my child to do foolproof self-directed sensory play + baking?

My 6 year old child really likes to play "spices" where we put various herbs, spices, flour, and other ingredients into small jars, set those on a baking sheet, and give her a mixing bowl.  She mixes them and, usually, makes some sort of dough she wants to bake.  She has a lot of fun doing this and it helps her experience new scents and flavors.  Historically we just buy cheap spices at the store and don't really overthink it.

So far the main problems we have had are:

- We have a hard time finding complementary herbs/spices that can be mixed in somewhat arbitrary proportions and not end up completely disgusting.  Sometimes the spices conflict with each other and sometimes they are spices you generally don't use more than a tiny pinch.

- Since she wants to bake things, we try to provide something to make it "bakeable" such as baking soda, yeast, sometimes even eggs.  Usually, though, the end result is unappealing - often too spongy or too hard - and she doesn't want to try it.  When it isn't unappealing she really likes it and finds it rewarding.

It would be really nice if we could put a little more prep work into this and be able to give her all her ingredients to play with, knowing that they are the right proportions that make something relatively palatable in the end, and be able to do this repeatedly.

She does also help us with "real" recipes which is obviously a critical thing for helping hear learn and understand cooking, but this self-directed play is really important to her and helps expand her palate and calm her.

It would be nice if I could come up with the following system:

- measure out a set of ingredients and put them into appropriately-sized jars

- nearly all ingredients are dry and would not spoil in a week or so

- give her all the jars on a baking sheet along with any water needed

- have a pre-defined temperature and time for baking

- when combined, the entirety of the ingredients would be tasty when baked

- when some ingredients are not fully used (randomly), would not be terrible when baked

- clean up afterwards; be able to repeat this over and over without too much expense (no saffron, etc.)

How can I approach this task?

Q: Wok preparation and caring

What is a good technique for initially seasoning a wok, keeping it seasoned, and preventing rust?

Q: How do you open a coconut?

Without killing yourself or others?

Q: I want to make my own cheese. How do I get started?

I've seen people do their own mozzarella and it seemed easy. Any tips on how to get started (equipment, ingredients, recipes)? What about blue cheese and other stronger cheeses?

Q: How might I roast coffee at home without investing in an expensive roasting machine?

Tired of the bland supermarket beans and too poor to sate my thirst at the local roaster, so I've ordered 20lbs of green coffee beans online...

But, now what do I need to do to turn them into The Life-Giving Elixir? Not interested in crowding my kitchen with yet another special-purpose device, even for such an important task! I have a gas oven/range, cast iron pans, dutch oven, etc. - Is there a way to get a good roast without specialty equipment?

Q: How to remove bits of egg shell from a cracked egg?

Sometimes when I crack eggs, I end up with a bit of shell in the egg.  How can I easily get the shell out, as it always seems to evade my fingers?

Q: How can I make a chocolate cup that looks like the seaweed on a sushi roll?

I want to make a dessert that simulates a salmon roe sushi (like this) using rice pudding and spherified melon juice with a chocolate "seaweed" wrapping. But I can't figure out how to make the seaweed convincing.

How do I do this?

Q: How do you make General Tso's chicken as generally found in the Eastern USA?

I realize this is a recipe request, but I'm hoping that the supplemental information will be enough to let it through. I also realize it's rather localized and apologize to all of those who don't know what I'm on about.

So, I am a huge fan of General Tso's chicken. I grew up on the east coast of the USA in the DC/VA area. Every dish of General Tso's was more or less the same: breaded deep fried chicken, a spicy, thick, reddish brown sauce with a hint of sweetness, chili peppers, sesame seed, and  broccoli.

Since moving to Chicago I have been unable to find this style of General Tso's. Out here the sauce is runny, brown, sickly sweet, and barely spicy. They also put all kinds of random crap (vegetables) that I don't want in there. I've tried this dish in L.A., Seattle, and Phoenix and it's all similarly gross. I've even had one where the chicken wasn't breaded!

The dish I want to know how to make looks like this:

I realize D.C./VA is a rather specific area, but since this dish originated in New York City, I imagine that it didn't get butchered much migrating 200 miles south. So, while I haven't had NYC General Tso's I imagine that it's quite similar, or at least much closer than the mess I have out here in the midwest.

Update

I'd prefer first-hand knowledge to a top 3 Google hit.

Q: Is ground beef that was in the refrigerator for two weeks and has turned brown still usable?

I bought some ground beef around 2 weeks ago and used half of it, putting the rest in a freezer bag in my fridge (not the freezer).  It has since turned brown (not red, as when I bought it).

Is it safe to use to make hamburgers?

Q: Parmesan rind:  should I use it, or trash it?

I grate my own Parmesan cheese (and others). When I get down to the rind, I usually throw it out. Is there a use for it?

Q: Ways to learn to season food correctly?

What is a good way of learning how to season food correctly?  Are there some foods which are particularly bland until seasoned correctly that can be used to 'educate' your palate as to what is correctly seasoned?

Q: Which vegetables to use for stock?

Which vegetables and/or fresh herbs should be used when making vegetable stock?

Are there any vegetables/herbs that should be avoided?

Can parts of vegetables that would otherwise be discarded be included (eg. potato peel, carrot tops, onion skins)?

Q: Cues to a reliable or unreliable recipe?

Over on this question about measurements we got into an interesting discussion about recognizing reliable recipes. What cues do you look for to recognize one you would trust? This is a community wiki question since it has no definitive answer. I'll throw out three to get us started:

Good signs:
+ If I can see a picture of the finished food and it looks delicious

Bad signs:
+ If the author doesn't know the diff between "1 cup of pecans, chopped" and "1 cup of chopped pecans"
+ If the ingredients aren't listed in the order you will need them in the recipe

Q: Blowtorch - hardware store vs kitchen store. Is there a difference?

When looking for a blowtorch for the kitchen, you can buy some reasonably expensive tools. When looking for a blowtorch for plumbing, you can buy some reasonably cheap tools.

The price is different. The look is different. The principle is the same. I guess the gas is the same.

Why pay more? Is there a health issue? Is the kitchen blowtorch more precise?

Q: What is the best way to clean a grater?

A grater is a very useful instrument in the kitchen and it's fun to use. You can use it for a lot of food: cheese, citrus fruit peel, nutmeg, all kinds of vegetables, etc.

But cleaning a grater is a pain.

Anyone here knows an easy and effective way to clean a grater?

Q: How to prevent pizza dough from stretching back

I have a problem with my pizza dough. I start to shape it but it is somewhat difficult to make it bigger and thinner because the dough stretches back to its initial form.

Any ideas?

Q: What's the size of the plastic cup that came with my rice cooker?

I have a cheap-o rice cooker that works fine for me.  It came with a plastic cup to measure 1, 2 or 3 "plastic cup" units of rice.  Water is added to match the '1', '2' or '3' mark in the cooker bowl.   It was great until the cup vanished.  

Now how to pour in the right amount of rice?

Do all rice cookers use the same standard "plastic cup" unit?  By any luck, would it be exactly 1 cup, or 1/2 cup, according to a standard measuring cup?  Maybe I could dump rice and water into the bowl in any amount as long as they're in the right proportion by volume.   Meeting the '2' or '3' mark isn't important, actually, just getting great rice in the end.

The actual model I'm using is CKRVRCM061 and yes, of course I could google it, but it would be great to have a general answer which could apply to any cooker I or anyone will use in the future - for those of us with a talent for losing small important items!

Q: What parasites are problematic in sous vide?

Obviously, one should use only clean ingredients. However, especially with game and river/lake fish that's rather difficult.

- What are parasites that should be taken into account in sous vide cooking, or any other tightly controlled low-temperature cooking?

- What is the minimum core temperature and time to kill all parasites?

For sake of reality, "all parasites" should be limited to those in Europe and northern America. 

I'm not looking for "just boil everything" or "only use inspected ingredients". Also, note that in sous vide, same temperature can be maintained for extended period of time. At least some temperature guidelines are higher than they have to be to account for quick, uneven cooking.

Q: Food safety when tasting from dish

When making a dish, I of course taste it through out the process of cooking until its done. I have been extra careful - Each time I taste from the dish I use a new spoon - This means that I have to have ALOT of spoons ready all the time, and have to spend a significant amount of effort to keep them clean.

Is this common practice? Or is this too harsh compared to the norm (in restaurants). Are there any "tricks" that people use to get around the possibility of introducing your own germs into the dish, or minimizing this risk?

EDIT: I'm interested in the common practice in commercial settings (I have a small home-cooking business, and I want to align myself with the norm in restaurants etc..)

Q: How did people transport food before aluminium foil was invented?

I know this question does not concern cooking, however I wondered how people transported their food before aluminium foil was invented (circa 1900, which is not too long ago).

Did people in the middle ages only carry preserved food with them on long journeys? Did they transport it in cloth or ceramic? 

This question is really naive, but I want a definite answer.

Q: Why is it faster to reheat something than it is to cook it?

In my experience it takes less time to reheat a cooked item than it does to cook it. This is true for every single different "type" of cooked item I can think of. (Meat, soup, pasta, beans, etc etc).

It's quite common for me to use the microwave to reheat things, and that might lead me to be biased in thinking that it's faster because the microwave itself is often the fastest way top reheat something, but this observation isn't true just for microwaving. It doesn't even seem to matter on the method of reheating, as I can reheat something faster if I use the same method of as I did to cook it (e.g. by frying).

Note that I always check the temperature of something I've reheated via a food-probe, so I'm also not making a mistaking of cooking something to 70C and then reheating to 45C etc.

So:

- Is it always faster to reheat something than it was to cook it, or are their exceptions?

- why is food faster to reheat? What's the food-science behind it?

Q: Can I deep fry food in butter instead of vegetable oil?

I was wondering if it is possible to deep fry food that would normally be fried in vegetable oil in butter or lard instead? Will the result be different?

Q: How to efficiently shred a lot of cabbage?

I'm growing cabbages in my garden this year and would like to make lots of sauerkraut, to eat and to give as gifts.  Gallons of it.

Is there an efficient way to slice or shred a dozen cabbages at a time?  Using a grater for that much cabbage is going to destroy my arms.

I would buy a one-purpose gadget or an attachment for my Kitchenaid mixer that didn't cost more than ~$60 if that's the right way to proceed.

Q: Do plastic cutting boards dull knives faster than wood boards?

I've heard on numerous occasions that plastic cutting boards dull knives faster than wood boards. I use a large wooden cutting board often, but recently I've been finding it heavy and it sometimes leaves behind a flavour on food despite good cleaning.

Is there any objective evidence that plastic cutting boards dull knives faster than good wood cutting boards? I'm hoping there have been experiments with sharpness measuring instruments such as the Edge-On-Up Industrial Edge Tester.

I've heard anecdotes and I've seen people provide plausible explanations why wood would be better for keeping knives sharp, but I haven't seen any hard data.

Q: What is this oddly shaped hinged device with indentations?

What is this device? It's about 8cm long when closed, and has little indentations on the top piece and raised lines on the bottom. Possibly it could be used to crush garlic etc.?

Q: What is this symbol that looks like a shrimp tempura on a Philips HD9928 air fryer?

This question is about a Philips HD9228 air fryer.

What is the 3rd symbol (C in the screenshot) on this air fryer? The manual doesn't say anything about it. I'm assuming it's a shrimp tempura, or a chicken lollipop.

Symbols:

- A - frozen french fries

- B - raw/thawed french fries

- C - ???

- D - chicken drumstick

- E - spring roll

- F - muffin

Q: Can meat spoil outside the fridge if it's baked into bread as a filling?

I made some meat buns tonight (that is, buns with cooked chicken stuffed inside them before being baked), and I'm wondering if I should bother keeping the buns inside the fridge, because that would mean having to reheat them later.

Will the chicken inside them even go bad if the bread's there to protect it? It seems to me that the bread will act basically like a tin can and keep the meat preserved as long as the bread is, since the meat inside was heated and all the bacteria that might have been on it was cooked to death.

Is this a wrong way of thinking? Should I just refrigerate them just to be safe?

Q: Why must fermenting meat be kept cold, but not vegetables?

This is a somewhat unique question, so I'll start by stating my assumptions that I understand to be "widely known" among food preservation enthusiasts. If any of these are not accurate, please let me know!

Assumptions:

- Improperly handled food kept at low oxygen (e.g. submerged in liquid) carries a risk of causing deadly botulism.

- The bacteria that create botulism toxin require certain conditions: low oxygen, low acidity, low salt, low sugar, sufficient protein content, correct temperature range.

- Lacto-fermenting vegetables in a salt brine carries little to no risk of botulism, and no case of botulism has ever been reported from lacto-fermenting vegetables.

- Lacto-fermenting meats and dairy products must be done in a cold environment like a refrigerator to prevent the risk of botulism.

- Lacto-fermenting protein-rich vegetables (e.g peas, beans) can be safely done at room temperature.

So my question is: what's so special about meat and dairy that it carries a high risk of botulism? Botulism can occur from improperly canned beans, yet fermenting beans at room temperature is okay. Why is it not okay to lacto-ferment meat at room temperature? What's different about meat vs. high-protein vegetables?

And a follow up question: could there be any substitute safety measures other than refrigeration to make room temperature meat fermentation safe? E.g. Extra salt, acid, finely shredding the meat (to ensure brine penetration), etc.?

Edit:

My main motive for this question is determining whether room temperature preservation of cooked meet is possible using a salt brine + other vegetables / ingredients in a process similar to lacto-fermentation; I'm not concerned with the technicality of whether the bacteria feed off the meat or if the meat truly "ferments"; I'm only concerned with preservation. Example: if adding freshly cooked (i.e. mostly sterile) meat to a jar of fermenting vegetables (at any stage of fermentation) effectively prevents spoilage of the meat, I would consider that an answer to my question. If not, the reason why not would also be a good answer.

Q: Why do my silicone spatulas melt in frying oil?

I have bought three silicone spatulas so far and all of them start "melting" when used to flip frying eggs.

I don't leave them in the pan or anything and, supposedly, silicone should be able to withstand much higher temperatures than frying oil.

But I've had the same happen with a "silicone basket"-like utensil (I don't know exactly what it was called) which, quite literally, melted and fell apart when I used it for the first time to fish french fries out of the frier.

I also see a lot of people having the same experience over the wire/internet.

Why is this happening and is there a way to confirm the utensils are real silicone and not something else?

EDIT:

After some digging I have discovered I have, in fact, bought a nylon spatula, instead of a silicone one.

I am going to copy @unlisted's comment for benefit of future readers:

Though both obviously 'plasticky' nylon is hard & silicone is soft. If it will squish a bit, it's silicone. Nylon will bend but you could never describe it as 'squishy'. Of course, even if it passes that test it may still not be food-grade.

Q: Why not use alcohol ice?

I don't really drink alcohol so it's more of a theoretical question.
I know that some people don't like ice because it dilutes the drink, so they prefer to use metal or stone cubes instead.

However they have smaller thermal capacity and thermal conductivity than water ice.

So my question is - why not use ice made from the very drink you are trying to cool?

Granted, some cocktails may be ruined by freezing but something like whiskey or bourbon or gin should be fine, I think.
Sure, freezing alcohol requires much lower temperatures then water but the whole glass shouldn't be too cold; such ice won't dilute the drink and should have reasonable thermal capacity/conductivity.

Sure, it may require a specialized freezer (in a bar or a restaurant) but a simple dry ice box should also work.

Q: Why does the second bowl of popcorn pop better in the microwave? And how can I capitalize on that?

Picture this.

- 

I make 1/4 cup of popcorn kernels in the microwave. No paper bag - just a glass bowl with a glass lid, where the lid has holes in it to allow steam to escape. After about 5 minutes, about 3/4 of the kernels have popped. If I go longer, the popped kernels start to burn, and even some of the unpopped kernels burn too. So I stop at 5 minutes, with the bowl about 80% full of popped popcorn.

- 

I then empty the glass bowl of all the popcorn into another bowl, for eating. But before eating, I make another 1/4 cup of popcorn kernels in the microwave again. This time, at about 4 1/2 minutes, there are so many popped kernels that it lifts the glass lid off the top of the bowl, perfectly cooked. I empty it into my eating bowl...

I didn't use oil or anything, but I got perfect air-popped popcorn from just a microwave. Only thing is, it took two tries. Also, this happens every time. Part of the reason I make a second bowl at all is because the popcorns are just so much better than the first bowl's.

How can I get the first batch to cook just as well as the second one? I have tried "pre-heating" just the bowl in the microwave for about 30 seconds. It does help. But apparently this is actually very bad and dangerous for the components of the microwave.

I don't know what's happening. But if I had to guess, there are tiny water molecules in the microwave that are messing things up. Or, something about the bowl being warm helps the kernels pop.

Do you have a suggestion on how to make a perfect bowl of air-popped popcorn in one go?

Q: Does resting the dough for a long time reduce the need to knead the bread?

In this article by Chef Michael Smith, he mentions a recipe where leaving the dough to rest for 18 hours removes the need to knead the bread. Is this a viable alternative? I've tried the recipe and found that the bread was more dense than a properly kneaded dough.

Q: How does a splash of vinegar help when poaching eggs?

What does splashing in a shot of white vinegar to the simmering water do when poaching an egg?

Is it for taste or is it supposed to react in some way with the albumen?

Q: How can I keep delicate food from sticking to the grill?

When I grill fish or chicken, often much of the meat and/or skin ends up sticking to the grill. What's the best way to avoid this?

Q: What's the difference between pan frying, sauteing, and shallow frying?

As I understand it, all of these terms refer to cooking food in a small amount of fat/oil. What exactly is the difference?

Q: Is there a substitute for tahini in hummus?

If I don't have tahini is there anything similar to use to make hummus?

Q: How do you organize your recipes?

I am thinking of collecting and organizing recipes that turned out to be good. 

The first thought I had is to write down the recipes in a word processor, print them out and collect them in a thin ring binder. My system would have only one recipe per page (including simple to complicated versions). I would make handwritten notes on the printed recipe whenever I feel the need to update it. Eventually, I would modify the recipe in the word processor if there are too many handwritten notes. This way, I would keep a clean and tidy recipe book for reference. What do you think? 

How do you organize your recipes? What works best for you and what does not?

Q: Does kimchi go bad?

I bought some kimchi a few weeks ago, ate half the jar, and then forgot about it. I found it in my fridge yesterday and tried it. It tastes the same, but there isn't a date stamped on the jar. Does it go bad or should it be fine since it's fermented/pickled?

Q: How do I make soft chapattis?

I have been trying to make chapattis (an Indian flat unleavened bread, somewhat like a wheat tortilla), using the following recipe for the dough: 300ml water, 250g whole wheat flour, 250g white wheat flour, pinch of salt. The dough rolls out fine, but the cooked chapattis turn out rather hard and/or rubbery instead of nice and soft. Any ideas why, and what I can do to improve the result?

Q: Why do some recipes recommend Kosher salt?

Is it healthy or more tasty?

Q: How to caramelise onions?

Often recipes ask for caramelised onions.  What are some good techniques for cooking them this way, as it seems to take a while, and often even if they are on a low heat they can brown a bit too much if they are not stirred continually.

Q: Making "long(er)-life" homemade mayonnaise

Most recipes I've seen for mayonnaise suggest that homemade mayo should be kept in the fridge for no longer than between 3 and 5 days.

What techniques or ingredients can be used to increase the shelf-life of homemade mayo? It's probably worth mentioning that I'm not after a solution that'll make the mayo last for the same length of time as commercially produced products, a week or two would be nice though!

Q: Shiny side or not for foil?

Does it make any difference when you wrap food with aluminum foil for grilling or baking or making a steam pouch whether you put the shiny side in or the shiny side out?

I've seen at least one answer to a questiong about grilling that made mention of this.

Q: What are the pros and cons of Convection Microwave Ovens?

Are convection microwave ovens a useful item to have?  Or are they not good as a microwave and not good as a convection oven either?

I understand that a regular convection oven helps to cook things faster.  But a microwave cooks things pretty darn fast already so why would you want a convection feature?

Q: What research is there on tea preparation?

I'm a fan of modernist cooking, and its emphasis on precise measurements and consistency. I'm curious how to apply this to tea preparation - in particular, several things:

- It seems to be well established that different types of tea should be prepared at different temperatures - black tea and fruit infusions with boiling water, green tea at 80 degrees centigrade, and so forth. Where/when was this established? How do we know it's optimal for each tea?

- Likewise, durations to steep tea seem fairly well established. Is there any research on this? People seem a bit fuzzier on this than on temperatures, with some variation.

- There's a lot of variance on the amount of tea leaves per litre of tea, varying between 2 grams per cup (8 grams per litre) and 15 grams per litre! Obviously, this depends on how finely cut the tea is, too. Is there any way I can determine this more objectively than just trying different amounts and tasting?

- There seem to be several theories on how best to prepare iced tea. Some suggest using more tea and steeping for longer, some suggest preparing it cold, and so forth. Has anyone determined objectively which are better?

I realize this my come across as rather pedantic, but given the huge variation in preparation suggestions, I'm interested in trying to figure out which work best. Most of the questions above could be answered to some degree, too, with an explanation of what it is - chemically - that makes one batch of tea better or worse, providing a foundation for making these sort of decisions.

Q: How does one find recipes given an ingredient rather than the recipe name?

How does one find recipes given an ingredient rather than the recipe name?

Q: What are the differences between types of soy sauce?

I recently started using Tamari over whatever the standard US form of soy sauce is. The difference was something of a revelation. The depth and complexity of flavor is an order of magnitude more interesting than what I had been throwing around in the kitchen. Marinating some shrimp in it for 20 minutes was incredible. I'm wondering if there's more that I'm missing. 

Wikipedia has a load of info on Soy Sauce varieties, but it doesn't really answer the question of what they taste like or if there are certain uses they lend themselves to. 

I have 8+ types of vinegar in my kitchen. Is soy sauce a similar exploration? What are the common types of soy sauce? What is the difference in flavor profile? Is the usage different? Have I discovered a new kitchen addiction to drive my wife nuts?

Q: Should french fries be fried two times?

Most professional cookbooks tell me to fry french fries two times. First at a lower temperature of about 150-170°C and then at a higher temperature about 180-190°C. 

Reference: http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Cookbook:French_Fries#Variations

Related: What varieties of potato would be good for chips / french fries?

What are the advantages of frying the potatoes two times?

Q: How long can cooked food be safely stored at room/warm temperature?

If I leave fully-cooked food (particularly meat) out at warm temperature - say on the counter or in a crock pot that's been turned off -  how long will it stay safe to eat?

Does it make any difference if I re-cook the food afterward?

Q: Will avocado stay fresh longer if stored in the refrigerator?

Should I store avocado in the refrigerator or will it make no difference for how long they stay fresh?

Q: Why is it important to add salt during cooking?

This may seem like a silly question, but given that each persons' tastes are different why is it that salt is added during cooking?  It seems better to just allow the person eating the food to add their own salt to taste as opposed to forcing the same amount of saltiness on everyone equally.

Q: How to properly saut&#233; mushrooms so that they don't release water?

Every time I try to sauté mushrooms, they release so much water I end up with a puddle. This, from what I gather, is not the intended effect - they should be slightly browned but dry. Any tips on how to avoid this happening? I tried a bit of everything - I heat up my frying pan for quite a bit first to ensure it's very hot, I use lots of olive oil, but all to no avail. 

Maybe I'm cooking too many at a time, i.e., should I cook them in small batches instead? Am I cooking them for too long?

A: As a health inspector for over 20 years, I am astounded by the lack of awareness that food safety controls are based on science and not on individual inspectors' personal fears and bad moods. Botulism control is based on some of the following facts: botulinum spores are commonly found in soil and on vegetable surfaces, botulinum grows in low or no oxygen envt., botulism has high virulence. (Virulence is a technical term for the fact that a high number of botulism victims end up dead (like Listeriosus of raw milk fame), in contrast to other food borne illnesses like Staph or Campyllobacter.) When considering the fact that botulinum grows slowly, and food borne illnesses whack people more often with weak immune systems, such as the elderly, the ill, and the very young, the food producer may have just been lucky that the product never created a problem, or the very real option that a problem was never narrowed down to the product. 

As to the argument that old time recipes have been made for centuries, as in this case, (I am a bit of a foodie and Italian), the big difference is that many products were never made for mass production and or to stick around on shelves for long periods of time, and if so, any data, let alone food safety data, is unavailable for historic food products. In fact, the link between bacteria and illness was scientifically proven by Koch as late as the late 1800's. Another fact is that the CDC's data shows that outbreaks over the last 50 years are fewer, involve much higher number of victims and are more often associated with mass production and distribution of food.  My health dept. receives notices of food recalls at least once a week. 

In the case of botulism and fresh garlic in oil, it's considered so risky that acidification is required nationwide.  In California, there is a state lab that specializes in evaluating botulism safety for commercial operations. (It's funded by taxes to keep cost to businesses low and is considered a public service.) I would recommend that producers contact their State health depts. and work with them to identify any and all options available for the canning and sale of any low acid food - including acidification, using dried ingredients, temperature control, flash heating (called a "kill step"). The majority of us inspectors truly focus on how to sell food safely and do not approach their jobs as stopping people from making a living. And surprise surprise we don't always think alike, just don't get me started. However, I'll finish with the following consideration of the implication that "life has it's many risks" argument that we inspectors hear often.  When it comes to death, the public, the politicians and the members of responsible industry itself does not tolerate "a little death."

A: A complete answer to this question would require writing a primer on the history of food preservation and transport.  I'm not going to write one.  Instead, I'll focus on the most common methods of personal food transportation -- (that is, snacks, meals, and travel food) in the middle ages.

Transporting foods across the village would have been a daily or weekly event in most medieval European villages, because frequently villages had a common shared oven.  This oven belonged to the baker or to the village council, and after the bread was done, the residual oven heat was used to bake beans, casseroles, pot roasts and other slow-cook dishes.  Generally, the ceramic vessels for such dishes had lids (which were sometimes sealed with flour paste to retain moisture), and transported unopened in a basket.

For road food, one of the most common methods was as pies.  Contrary to modern hand-pies with flaky delicious crust, for many medieval pies the crust was thick, dense, and inedible.  The crust wasn't part of the food, it was a sealed wrapper to protect it (with indifferent success); you broke open the crust with a knife and ate the insides with a spoon, tossing the crust to the pigs or dogs (or the very poor).

Another method of sealing food was "potting", which involved putting meat, seafood, or other foods in a small pot and covering the top with a thick layer of fat or (for expensive dishes) wax.  The potted food would be cooked with the sealing layer on top, and thus survive for a couple of days until bacteria penetrated the protective grease layer.

References:

- Bakehouses and community bread ovens (oldandinteresting.com)

- Pie Crusts (medievalcookery.com)

- Meat Potting (archived from waltonfeed.com) 

Book References (where I got most of this):

- Putting Food By

- Near a Thousand Tables: A History of Food

- Victoria's Home Companion

A: I think you're on to something with regards to cut pieces cooking more evenly than whole sprouts. But I also think you might be seeing causation where you should just be seeing correlation.

The "classic" way to cook Brussels sprouts is to leave them whole and steam them. That results in minimal flavor development. When overcooked, chemicals are produced with bitter, garlicky, and/or sulfurous overtones. Similar chemicals are produced when long-cooking many other other green vegetables, and are likely what you associated with overcooked fennel. Since no other "interesting" tastes are really produced by steaming, those tastes take center stage, no matter how much butter you put on the sprouts.

Cooking the sprouts at high heat, as restaurants generally do these days, results in caramelization and Maillard browning. Those taste good, and dominate the flavor profile, covering up some of the unpleasant tastes which steaming (but also other cooking methods) produce. Getting a good sear when shallow-frying Brussels sprouts requires cutting them, so there's an association between how they're cut and how they're cooked.

There's another aspect to "modern" Brussels sprouts. In the 1990s, agricultural botanists in the Netherlands bred Brussels sprouts with much lower bitterness than classic cultivars; over time, these new sprouts took over the market. So cooking processes aside, Brussels sprouts today are less bitter than the ones from your childhood. (For that matter: as you age, bitter tastes become less unpleasant.)

As I mentioned, you may be on to something with regards to cut pieces cooking more quickly, not giving the outside a chance to overcook, but I suspect what you're primarily seeing is just the result of modern cooking methods compared to the frankly unpleasant results of classic "steam 'em for a while" treatment.

A: There are two differences between your buns and a tin can.

First, your buns were heated to a core temperature of under 100°C. Yes, your oven was probably set way higher, but the water content in your filling prevents it from getting hotter than boiling water. Commercial canning is done in the vicinity of 120-130°C, which is possible because the cans are cooked under pressure. So unlike in a can, most pathogens were destroyed, but not necessarily all of them. For human consumption, that’s perfectly fine as long as the remaining ones don’t get the time-temperature combo to regrow.

Second, a bread dough may be dense (although the aim is usually something different), but by no means airtight. Interestingly, wrapping meat in dense dough was used as preservation method in medieval times - the “ancestor” of today’s pork pies and pastries. But while the hard flour crust (not intended to be eaten originally) did form a protective layer and usually extended the shelf life more or less, it was by no means food safe judged by modern standards - although some pies were stored for months. But your fluffy buns are truly not a protective layer. Which means you should refrigerate your buns, but also that you get to enjoy the whole dish.

A: What most people don't get when it comes to food safety: Spoiled food has a chance of making you sick. 

When food is visibly spoiled, it has large bacterial colonies growing in it. This means that it has been exposed to conditions which were promoting bacterial growth. Anything which was present on your food will have grown, unless outcompeted by something else. 

The bacteria which make food gross are rarely the ones which make you sick. But if they had the chance to grow, the real pathogens had a chance to grow too. If they were present, then they grew, and you will consume them, together with whatever waste products their colony produced. 

Assuming that there were infectious bacteria on your food, you will ingest them. From there on, it depends on a ton of factors whether you will get sick or not - the amount you ate, the acidity of your stomach contents, the state of your immune system. The last does not mean "you'll only get sick if you're immunocompromised" - it is like being around a person with the flu, even if your immune system is intact, you can still catch it. 

There are pathogens which cannot infect you, but simply produce toxins. Botulinum is the poster child for these, but I think B. cereus also works through a toxin. In this case, eating the food poisons you. Depending on the type and amount of toxin ingested, as well as the current state of your body again (mostly liver function), the symptoms can run the entire spectrum from "so weak you don't notice them" to "you die despite being correctly diagnosed and treated". 

Then there are a few more exotic possibilities, for example Hep C cannot cause liver cancer alone, but it does so (sometimes) in the presence of a type of toxin produced by moulds. But this is not actually considered foodborne illness any more, even though it's possible that eating mouldy food was the trigger. It falls outside of the scope of food safety, as the fault cannot be pinned on a specific dish you ate. Nevertheless, it's one more reason to not eat spoiled food. 

There is also the possibility that your spoiled food has no pathogens at all, and the spoilage microbes outcompeted all the bad guys, and then of course nothing happens. 

So, to sum it up: if you eat spoiled food, there are four possible outcomes: 

- You get sick (right away or with an incubation period of 2-3 days) and notice it 

- You get sick (right away or with an incubation period of 2-3 days) but the symptoms are so weak you don't even notice it 

- You get a different health problem, soon after eating or even years later, without knowing that it was the spoiled food which caused it 

- Nothing happens. 

There is no way to predict which one will occur. Actually, these outcomes are possible with any food you eat, including safe food, but eating unsafe food increases the probability of the first outcomes a lot, and eating spoiled food increases it even more.

A: Assuming these are open packets that have been open for a while - you probably have a mite infestation, probably the flour mite (Acarus siro), or a closely related mite. These are tiny almost-invisible-to-the-naked-eye members of the Acari, which is an animal order including the ticks and mites.

Flour mites are very small - between 0.33 and 0.66 mm (0.013-0.026 in), with translucent/whitish bodies and pink legs. They are, as the name suggests, most commonly found in flour, but are also seen living on a range of grains, cereal products, dried fruit and nuts. They can promote allergic reactions upon consumption of food contaminated with the mites.

Mild allergic reactions to mites are very common - about 1 in 20 people have them (mostly to dust mites), but they very very rarely cause severe allergic reactions. However, that doesn't mean that a mite allergy is an allergic reaction to these particular mites as there are many other mite species in our environment, so the chances of you being allergic to flour mites is relatively small.

Because the mites are so small, detection is difficult and usually not noticed until fairly heavily infested - if you are seeing the dust/flour/whatever move, then you most likely have a heavy infestation. You may be able to find them on the food or in your cupboards with a magnifying glass or using a piece of sticky tape to press down on cupboard surfaces, then examining it under bright light.

Severely infested foods should be discarded, but the mites can be killed by freezing the affected food-stuffs for 7 days. Just be aware that this will not kill off any antigens from the mites - they can still cause an allergic reaction upon consumption. They are difficult to eliminate because they are so small, but you can thoroughly clean your cupboards and any food storage containers with regular house-hold cleaners to get rid of food residues that they use as a food source.

There's a more detailed version of the above advice on wikihow.

A: The question of "why not" is difficult to answer definitively, or really at all.  We can't ask folks 2000 years ago why they didn't care about cumin.  However, there are some historical impacts on Greek cuisine that bear on this, so let's explore them:

- 

You mention Turkey, Syria, and Lebanon as Greek neighbors.  But consider that Greece is also historically next to Austria, and currently next to Romania and Bulgaria, and is closer to Slovakia than it is to Lebanon.  So if you look at Greece as being midway between Syria and Kosovo, the frequency of spice use also puts it midway.

- 

Greek cuisine doesn't rely heavily on spices partly because it does rely heavily on herbs and alliums. Because of the climate, onions, garlic, leeks, parsley, dill, oregano, thyme, and others grow readily and plentifully all over the islands and peninsulas. So do citrus, also used for seasoning Greek dishes. Many Greek dishes will have onions, garlic, lemon, and as much as 2 cups of minced herbs in them.  Given this, one can see why Greek cooks didn't feel the need to add two teaspoons of cumin and dried peppers as well.  Italy, having a similar climate, largely takes a similar approach.

- 

One place where Greek spice usage is on a parallel with Syria is  in sweets.  The palette of spices used for Greek pastries, cookies, and cakes is as great as -- and extremely similar to -- the ones used in the Middle East.  This is undoubtedly because most places in the region got their sweet recipes from the Persian and Ottoman empires, so they're really the same recipes.

- 

Greece, like other ancient regions, includes multiple cuisines. Some of these use more spices than others, particularly Thrace.

Note that above I'm using the term "spices" to refer to its accepted use, of "aromatic seeds, stems, and bark".

A: The difference between whole milk (or any milk, really) and half-and-half is one of fat content, not overall concentration. Half-and-half gets its name from being a 50/50 blend of milk and cream, which normally separate because the less dense fats concentrated in cream float naturally to the top of the mostly-water milk. However, milk also contains a number of other proteins, sugars, etc. that give it flavor. When you dilute half-and-half with plain water, you're diluting the fat content (potentially down to a similar range as contained in whole milk) but you're also diluting all those other flavorful components. You wind up with something that has the right fat level but not enough of anything else, and which tastes somewhat flat and flabby by comparison with proper milk.

A: The cleaning is one thing (there are flasks without hidden crevices that can be easily cleaned), but there’s also another point to consider:

A thermos flask that is doing its job will keep food warm, or rather, slow down the cooling process. Even if you fill it with fairly hot liquid, it will slowly cool. If you do that with a perishable food like milk, you will easily create an environment in the upper range of the danger zone, where food will become unsafe after as little as two hours. 

Yes, you can argue that you are filling hot milk in a clean container, but in the end, it’ll be not safe by food safety standards. (What you make of that is obviously your choice.) The manufacturer’s warning will protect the end users from food poisoning.

A: The handle of the round plastic object feels really distinctive to me. It would clearly work with a normal hammer-like grip, but it also has the thumb-print inviting the user to choke the grip up close and apply lots of force. I'm pretty sure it's for scraping. 

The metal tool is a bit confusing; it looks like it could cut, but it's clearly not a knife. 

After a minute's thought, I'm comfortable guessing that this is a child's pumpkin-carving kit.

A: According to Philips on Twitter, it's a pork chop.

link to tweet

A: If your stock turns to jelly in the fridge, it means you did it right!

Simmering the bones breaks down the collagen and turns it into gelatin; that's the very essence of stock-making.  The gelatin is exactly what you want from the stock; at low temperatures it has a very jelly-like consistency, but at higher temperatures it melts and provides a very rich texture.

The more you reduce the stock, the more gelatinous it will become, so if it turned out stiffer than you expected, it's probably because you let a lot of water evaporate.  Typically, when making stock, you use a very low simmer; just a few bubbles per minute.  Any more than that and your stock will reduce.

But reducing is perfectly OK, and many cooks will reduce an entire pot of stock down to a few tablespoons; it's like bullion, only without all the salt and preservatives.  Heavily-reduced stock is called glace de viande and is often used to give a sauce or dish a little bit of extra kick, imparting a powerful meat flavour.  But you probably didn't reduce it that much.

If you're finding it to be too concentrated or gelatinous, even at higher temperatures, you can feel free to dilute it.  For soups or sauces you can probably dilute it 1 for 1, but taste as you go along just to make sure you're not watering it down too much.

When only the top layer of a stock solidifies in the refrigerator, it is probably fat, which you should skim off and discard (or reserve).  The rest is your actual stock, and in your case it sounds delicious.

Also, since you mention vacuum-sealing - I prefer to use covered ice cube trays for freezing stock.  That lets you portion it out much more easily than a big solid blob.

A: When a plant arrives in the kitchen, the ecological perspective doesn't matter any more. Any insect  present on a plant destined for human consumption is considered a pest by the consuming humans and by the cooks preparing the food for them, no matter what the plant considers it to be (pollinator, parasite, whatever). The average person dislikes consuming insects, and people who enjoy eating insect-based dishes frequently object to consuming insects of unknown species that are not part of the recipe. This is a cultural thing of course, my own great-grandfather always laughed at people cutting out worms from apples - for him, the worm was as much a part of the apple as the pips. But the average westernized cultural setting today views that insects are disgusting and should not be eaten. 

So the seller won't tell you which insects these are - they don't know and it doesn't matter to them. They just assume that you don't want to eat the insects, like the overwhelming majority of their customers. And so they tell you what method to apply - cut away the flowers - to avoid eating the insects. I suspect that they may have had outraged customers returning vegetables as "defective" if they found out they have insects in their food, and have taken to preemptively give advice how to get rid of the insects. 

As for the objective harm, that's highly unlikely to happen. There are very few insects which can damage your health, and these tend to be human or animal parasites, not the kind of insect which lives on a vegetable. So if you eat the flowers and swallow the insects unnoticed, no harm done. If you notice them, there can be emotional harm or not, depending on whether this is a disgust trigger for you or not.

A: It is mostly a fancy way of saying that they are combining flavors. There are no solid, physical layers involved anywhere.

Still, there is a reason why the "layering" metaphor is more apt than simply saying "combining". Flavor is mostly about aroma, which leads to two aspects of "layering".

First, aroma is not perceived all at once when you bite off. You first notice the most volatile smell notes when the food enters your mouth, go through a kind of "middle" and only at the end, while swallowing, you notice the "heavier" flavor. So, when seasoning, you can work with food such that you don't mix up too many flavors in one of the three aroma "layers", but also to make sure that there is something noticeable in each of the three.

Second, people are accustomed to some flavors being present as a metaphorical "background" taste. It can happen that, if the expected aroma is absent, you can add all the spices you want, and the eater will still experience it as underseasoned. This is what is happening in the example you cited: the "base layer" are the onion and garlic, which are probably the standard for the dish, and then you can take that dish in different directions by your choice of additional herbs and spices. In that case, you can see the metaphor as akin to clothing - once you have a basic shirt on, you can always make the outfit nicer by layering a scarf, jacket or jewelry on top of it.

All in all, it is not "all about layering flavors". It is just an expression which helps some cooks go about creating harmonious flavor combinations. If it works for you, use it. If not, learn to think about your seasoning in other terms.

A: "Cooking" is often a chemical process.  Denaturing proteins, gelatinization, causing chemical reactions like browning, or even causing state changes like evaporation.

In many cases for these reactions to happen, we need to overheat the food.  (Cook it and let it rest to cool off back down to undo some of the changes that were made and/or bring it back down to a reasonable temperature to eat).  This is true when grilling meats, frying, baking bread, and lots of other types of cooking.

Other times, we need to bring something to temperature and hold it there for some period of time.  This holds for extracting collagen, starch gelatinization (eg, cooking pasta, potatoes, etc.) but also just waiting for flavors to transfer in soups and similar dishes.

With warming, you're just adding enough heat to it to move it a few degrees, but you're not typically trying to change the state of the food, so less total energy is needed.

Now, it is always faster to reheat vs. cook things?  For the most part it's true, but I suspect that there would be an edge case out there.  Something that's cooked from room temperature, but then stored chilled and the chilling causes issues (like retrogradation in starches, maybe?) that make them more resist than reheating.

A: Ethanol has a much lower freezing temperature than water: -114°C. This is considerably colder than dry ice and would require expensive specialised equipment to make and store. It would also be dangerous if it made contact with skin or was swallowed.

Freezing an alcoholic drink, which is mostly water, mostly freezes the water while mostly alcohol stays liquid, so it wouldn't be feasible to have a solid that was the same mixture as the drink itself.

Using frozen alcohol would be dangerously cold and would immediately melt anyway. What is commonly done if someone wants a very cold drink without ice is to store the ingredients and glassware in the freezer so that they start very cold (but still liquid).

A: It sounds like you may be describing a caper berry. Most folks are familiar with capers, which are the pickled or salted flower bud from the caper plant. However, if the buds are left to mature into fruit, it becomes a caper berry.

Caper berries (like capers) are usually pickled or salted, are about the size of a grape (and vary in size, like grapes), and often packaged with stems intact.

This image shows caper berries in the upper left, and also in the center of the salad itself:

This Amazon listing and this website both have some good images of caper berries up close as well.

A: If the products are melting and falling apart in hot oil at cooking temperatures I think you have experimentally confirmed that they are not food grade silicone. Food-grade silicone should be completely functional in the range of frying temperatures.

In a guide to food-grade silicone:

Temperature resistance is one of the principal attributes of food-grade silicone. This is particularly crucial in food processing where temperatures can vary from boiling hot to freezing cold. Food grade silicone can generally function in temperatures varying between -60°C and +250°C (special grades up to +300°C). Source

In a guide to safe deep-frying:

If you have a food thermometer heat the oil to 160C for low, 180C for moderate and 190C for high. Source

As for buying reliable products, my recommendation would be to buy branded products from reputable shops. With experience and common sense you can get a sense for what brands and products to trust.

A: It's a lemon/lime wedge juice squeezer.

Only place I've ever really seen them used is in British Indian restaurants.

Pop a wedge in the gap, squeeze the handles, juice can be poured with reasonable accuracy from any of the fluted edges. No messy fingers.

Image from Amazon

A: Whisk(e)y has some crazy chemistry going on inside of it, due to the complex interactions between water, alcohols, oils, esters and other compounds of various complexity. The profile of these chemicals will vary between different whiskey/whisky styles, but the overall chemistry is similar.

Simple effects of dilution

Adding water, or serving on the rocks, has a number of simple effects, such as diluting the ethanol a bit (ethanol anesthetizes your taste buds a bit), and cooling it (making your taste buds slightly less sensitive to certain flavors), but the fascinating part is what happens to the oily flavor compounds during dilution.

Dilution masks some flavor compounds

Oily hydrocarbons are somewhat soluble in high-proof whiskey. There are long-chain esters and short-chain esters of many varieties. As you add water, the whiskey becomes more polar, and the long-chain esters become supersaturated and start to precipitate in the form of micelles, microscopic "droplets" of esters that have clumped together. In some liquors like absinthe or ouzo, these droplets can get so large that they become visible, and visibly cloud the drink (an intended feature of absinthe preparation). In whiskey, these droplets are usually microscopic and don't visibly cloud the drink, because most of the oils have been removed during chill-filtration.

However, these droplets do something important, in that short-chain esters, being more soluble in the droplet than they are in the diluted whiskey, enter the droplet and become trapped inside. These compounds are now less available for tasting or smelling. Fortunately, these compounds are the oily, grassy compounds that many people do not like in their whiskey, and masking them is considered an improvement.

Dilution releases other flavor compounds

There is another type of micelle "droplet" that forms in whiskey. Ethanol, in high concentrations in water, forms it's own clusters, as ethanol molecules gather up with one another. Interestingly, warmer solutions cause more clustering of ethanol molecules, as do higher concentrations. Like before, these micelles trap compounds that are more soluble in ethanol than they are in water, volatile flavor compounds. However, unlike the oil droplets, these flavor compounds are desirable. Cooling the solution and diluting the solution both serve to "pop" these ethanol micelles, allowing them to release their trapped compounds for aroma and flavor.

So cooling and adding water can have the effect of both masking certain flavors by forcing them out of solution, and enhancing others by promoting their release back into solution. In the end, the result of the changed flavors is a matter of taste, which is why some people prefer neat, with water, or on the rocks, but one cannot deny that real chemical changes are in play.

References

- Scientific Paper: Release of distillate flavour compounds in Scotch malt whisky

- Blog posts: New perspectives on whisky and water

- Article: Tasting Whisky

- Wikipedia: Scotch Whisky

A: Cinnamon is the bark of a tree. It is either sold as rolled strips of bark (=cinnamon sticks) or ground. 

It will not dissolve, neither in water nor in alcohol. 

What you want to do is basically the same as was done commercially with the vanilla extract you are already using: 
 Extract the taste, then discard the bark itself.

- 

Alcohol is a good choice for extracting volatile aromatics. You could try and soak a few cinnamon sticks or a few tablespoons of ground cinnamon in a "neutral" alcohol like vodka or - if you are using it exclusively for your signature drink - use the brandy. This process might take from a few days to a few weeks, so nothing you can do "on the spur of the moment". 

- 

Another good carrier for the cinnamon taste would be water. You can simmer a few cinnamon sticks in water, then sieve. This is the same method that is used for mulled wine or mulled cider. To extend the shelf life of the "cinnamon water", you might considering turning it into simple syrup by boiling it with an equal amount of sugar.

Whether you use water or alcohol is a question of personal taste and planned other uses. The shelf life of an alcohol based extract might be longer, but with a sufficiently high sugar content, clean handling and refrigeration the syrup will last long, too. Time is a factor: The syrup can be ready and cooled in an hour or so, whereas the alcohol will take significantly more time.

Both methods work for vanilla, too - you could even make a "instant mix" for your drink.

Be warned, though: Filtering ground cinnamon from a liquid can be quite a hassle. It tends to clog coffe filters, but is too fine to be held back by a sieve. If you decide to use ground cinnamon because that's what you have at hand, consider letting it settle at the bottom of your container and carefully decanting the liquid from top. A coffe filter or a cloth-lined sieve can catch stray particles. You should get much better results by using whole or coarsely crushed cinnamon sticks.

There has been an ongoing discussion on what kind of cinnamon to use, so a short wrap-up here:

Cinnamon is derived from a group of plants, which vary in their properties and compounds. Especially coumarin, a substance also found in tonka bean, woodruff and other plants, has been widely discussed for its toxicity and is regulated in the EU. 

- Cassia cinnamon has the highest content whereas 

- true / Ceylon / Sri Lanka cinnamon contains only traces.

From a culinary point, the cheaper cassia, which contains more bark and is usually sold ground or in pieces, is often considered inferior in taste to the true cinnamon, which often comes in sticks. 

I will not venture a statement here, neither on health nor culinary claims. 

I am sure every reader of this post is capable of making an informed decision.

A: Crustaceans like shrimp, lobsters, crabs and crayfish have a pigment called astaxanthin in their shells. 

Astaxanthin belongs to the terpines class of chemicals of which the carotenoid ¹ class is a subdivision and, in a marine environment, gets produced by an algae that is subsequently consumed by crustaceans (and other animals like  salmon, red trout, red sea bream and flamingos ² )

As Astaxanthin absorbs blue light, it will appear as its opposing additive colour: a deep red.  The more this deep red is diluted, it will subsequently become red, orange or yellow in colour. 

  

While the crustaceans are alive, astaxanthin lies wrapped in the tight embrace of a protein called crustacyanin. The protein holds the pigment so tight, in fact, that it’s flattened and its light-absorption properties are changed. The astaxanthin-crustacyanin complex then winds up giving off a blue-green color. ³

This can be observed if you have aggressive live lobsters you want to cook: just put them in the sink full of water with a glass of white wine added for a few minutes and they will get drunk instantly as they've never had alcohol in their lives relax and the blue colouring can then be clearly seen at the fronds of their carapace.

The astaxanthin-crustacyanin complex gets:

  

separated when a crab or lobster is cooked. Crustacyanin is not heat-stable, so introducing it to a boiling pot of water or a grill causes it to relax its bonds with astaxanthin, unravel and let the pigment’s true bold red color shine through. ³

Note ¹: Carrots have given carotenoid its name

Note ²: Eating minuscule shrimp containing this carotenoid is what turns flamingos pink: pink flamingos will be more well-fed than pale flamingos...

Note ³: Sourced here

A: Yes, you can save it and add it to soups such as Minestrone for additional flavor.  Once the soup is done, remove and discard the rind.  For extended storage, keep it in a bag in the freezer until you have need for it.

A: That actually are tips of trees, probably spruce1. It’s this year’s new growth and a very seasonal product. The tips are harvested when the are (about) fully grown, but still light green and soft. 

I can’t say for sure what the local customers would use them for, but one of the common uses in my area of the world is to make “honey”, i.e. a syrup by either layering the tips with sugar and let the sugar draw out the aromatic compounds or alternatively make a “tea” that’s them preserved with plenty of sugar and boiled down to a syrup. It’s both a honey substitute (it does resemble fir honey) and a folk medicine against colds and coughing. Other extracts are made with alcohol instead (or in combination with) sugar to create a liqueur, again served both for medical and culinary purposes.

1  This is not a botanical id. Various members of the genus Picea (spruce) and Abies (fir) are used, usually whatever grows locally and has a pleasant taste.

A: You can certainly deep-fry foods in clarified butter (also known as ghee) and in lard.   In fact, there are many foods that are traditionally fried in these fats.  They both have very high smoke points and are excellent for making crisp fried foods.

For example, Puri, Indian fried breads, are deep-fried in ghee (clarified butter).  And many Southern USA and many Mexican deep-fried foods are meant to be fried in lard, such as hand pies or sopes.  In fact, if you watch the videos of Cowboy Kent Rollins, you'll see that while many of his recipes say "frying oil", what he actually uses is lard.

As for the flavor question: yes, using ghee or lard will affect the flavor of what you're frying, but in subtle ways.  Both of these fats are mild-flavored (at least, high-quality lard is).  Generally, the extra flavor you get from the butter or animal fat is considered desireable; they fell out of fashion in the use due to concerns about cholesterol, not taste.  Only foods that are meant to have a very light, airy batter (like tempura) are unsuitable for frying in animal fat.

There are some other animal fats that can be used for frying and deep-frying, such as beef tallow, schmaltz, horse fat, or duck fat. These have a much stronger flavor that is recommended for specific foods (for example, there are many aficionados of duck fat french fries), but aren't a good general substitute for vegetable oil.

One other caution: if you switch to frying with animal fats, you need to make special provisions to dispose of the used fat.  It can't be safely poured down the drain. This is actually true of all deep-frying oil, but animal fats are a greater problem: they may clog your pipes as well as hurting the sewer system.

ADD: per @wjandrea below, clarified butter, ghee, and brown butter have different flavors based on the amount they were cooked while clarifying, which will affect the flavor of any fried foods made with them.

A: In addition of FuzzyChef's answer: Some cheaper (?) but less durable (in terms of re-using) food packaging mostly without cheating by curing:

Wrapping

In south-east Asia and central America even today's people use big leaves instead of aluminium foil to wrap their food1: For example, bánh chưng, a (actually very perishable) Vietnamese new year's rice cake, is wrapped in banana leaves and can be stored up to 2 weeks unrefrigerated. Apparently, leaves of Terminalia catappa and some particular Phrynium can be used as well. 

Lotus leaves are also used.

Some Mesoamerican dishes (like (naca)tamale) are wrapped in corn husks. 

 

Source 1 Source 2

Sasazushi ("Sushi wrapped in a bamboo leaf"), a type of oshizushi, is a pressed sushi from the Kansai region:

Source

Does rice straw count (granted, natto is fermented while being wrapped...)?

  

Historically, nattō was made by storing the steamed soybeans in rice
  straw, which naturally contains B. subtilis natto. The soybeans were
  packed in straw and left to ferment.

Source

Century eggs and some kind of salted duck eggs are wrapped into a clay-mixture. Beside curing, the eggs are less prone to break. 

(Bees)Wax is/was used to control moisture. 

Apart from usual wrapping...

gourds, calabashes in particular, are used as beverage and food containers. Animal skins (stomach, bladder). treated with saps and resins, were used as a beverage container, like bota bags, colambres, and waterskins.

 

Even ostrich eggshells dated to 60000 years ago are found to be functional. 

Sounds stupid: Food stays fresh if kept alive. At least in today's Vietnam, in rural areas it's common that you buy chickens, fish, frogs etc. alive if you don't intend to cook immediately. When needed, you'll slaughter the (rather small) livestock at home. That's a way to circumvent the famous 2-hour-rule. 

Wrapping food with more food (that is meant to be eaten)

As Paulb pointed out in a comment, potentially melting foodstuffs like chocolate can be dipped into a sugary syrup which then harden into a candy shell. 

This reminds me of jelly beans or freeze dried fruits in chocolate (a very modern class of confectionery) coated in a thin layer of edible wax (e.g. carnauba wax, beeswax). Chocolate truffles also hold their booze or ganache in chocolate shells. 

  

Burrata is a fresh Italian cheese made from mozzarella and cream. The
  outer shell is solid mozzarella, while the inside contains
  stracciatella and cream, giving it an unusual, soft texture. It is
  also defined by some sources as an outer shell of mozzarella filled
  with butter or a mixture of butter and sugar. [...] The finished
  burrata is traditionally wrapped in the leaves of asphodel. [...] When
  the burrata is sliced open, a spurt of thickened cream flows out.
  (Source, emphasis mine)

Do edible moldy cheese rinds with a very soft cheese center count as wrapping? Imagine the mess if this was a cream cheese without the rind! Drawback: Curing is involved.

Obvious one: sausage casings. 

"Wrapping" food with more food (that is not meant to be eaten)

Besides the pie crust mentioned by Fuzzy Chef: I don't think dry aging / hanging meat is a modern invention. When meat is dry aged, the hard outer shell covered in mold is discarded. Same with some cheese rind.2  

1 Wrapping with leaves is not exclusively done for packaging purposes but for taste as well. 

2 Contrary to the putrid meat layer, clean non-waxed cheese rind have a second use as a umami bomb in stocks.

A: Mayo, at its most basic, is egg yolk and oil, with a little vinegar, whipped into an emulsion.

Aioli starts with oil and garlic, and sometimes vinegar or lemon.  Some versions (French-Provençal, apparently) add egg yolk for an end result close to mayonnaise, but the yolk is not required.

Hollandaise is a cooked sauce made from egg yolk and butter, sometimes flavored with lemon and pepper.  I think it must have a much larger ratio of egg yolk to other ingredients in it, since it remains brightly yellow and thick.

Bearnaise is a variation of hollandaise, which uses white wine vinegar to emulsify the egg yolks and butter, and flavors the resulting sauce with shallot, chervil, and tarragon.  Like an aioli, it is not defined by the emulsion but by the flavoring agents.  Adding terragon and capers, or tarragon and shallots, to a hollandaise (or other egg-yolk emulsion sauce) will produce a 'faux-bearnaise'.

The garlic defines the aioli, which is also the only one that can be made without egg yolk. The choice of butter rather than oil makes a hollandaise, and it is cooked as a sauce to set the yolks (which neither of the others require). The yolk and oil combination itself is the central concept of mayonnaise, while it can be flavored, it doesn't have to be.

The sauces are quite similar, though, and an emulsion of egg yolk with seasonings might be called by any name.  The difference between a garlic mayo and a french-style aioli are likely to be pretty subtle.  Likewise, a mayo flavored with lemon and pepper will be hard to distinguish from a hollandaise which uses oil - although hollandaise is usually cooked to set it, so the texture may be different.  And a aioli with butter will be very similar to a hollandaise with garlic.  Adding tarragon and shallot to any of them is likely to produce a bearnaise type sauce.

All three recipes are very loose and broadly defined, since they can be tweaked a lot depending on preferences - so it makes it hard to pin down other factors like ingredient ratios that might distinguish the recipes.  The sauces that add flavorings or substitute ingredients will tend to be named one or the other based more on recipe origin, familiarity, and marketing rather than any clearly defined difference.

A: First, do not eat that. Regardless what color the beef is, two weeks is entirely too long to refrigerate ground beef. It is unsafe and should be thrown out. Raw ground beef only keeps in the refrigerator for 1-2 days.

Ignoring storage time, regarding color, brown meat is as safe to eat as red meat. As others have indicated it is simply oxidation occurring. Many grocery stores, at least in the USA, [used to?] blast and wrap their meats with carbon monoxide which imparts a bright pink color that lasts well beyond the shelf life of the meat. If you freeze hamburger or steak for a few months there's a good chance it will come out much browner than when you put it in. This is because some oxidation still occurs in the freezer, unless you hermetically sealed it somehow. Similarly, as long as you're within the 3-4 month freezer period for ground beef, you're OK.

A: It's no secret; here it is! Complete with the cocaine that was removed from Coke's production in 1903:

Picture and text from This American Life

The radio broadcast recording on the above link makes a compelling case that the picture at the top of the page is the original formula for Coke. Of course, it has changed over the years; it's not exactly the same thing now as it was way back when. In addition to removing the cocaine, they've also cut the caffeine, switched from sugar to high fructose corn syrup, and use phosphoric acid now instead of citric acid. The proportions of the 7X ingredients had to have changed over time, as the ingredients themselves have changed. Extracting oils is a very different process now than over 100 years ago.

The idea that the formula is ever-so-secret is a marketing gimmick. Sure, the actual formula is a trade secret, but the massive effort to keep the world's biggest secret thing is just a bunch of theater.

Photo and caption from NY Daily News

The "down to the gram" specifics of the production recipe today are trade secrets, but no more so than just about every trademarked, brand-name food item sold today. No one person mixes and measures the whole batch (that's just practical, it's not even necessarily a security measure), so keeping the "super-secret-recipe" as it stands today from being published is no more difficult for Coke than it is for KFC. Nor are there highly-paid super-sleuths trying to steal the formula against whom Coke needs to take extraordinary measures.

EDIT 9/20/15 This American Life has added the following to their story:

Much of the press about our story takes at face value Coca-Cola's statements that we have not found the recipe for Coke, present or past. But when asked if the company has checked to see if this formula matches the original formula - which archivist Phil Mooney assured me they still have - company spokespeople always politely sidestep the question. So it seems entirely possible that no one at Coke has checked. If they'd checked to see if the formulas match, why not say so?

Phil Mooney even admitted something interesting about the recipe in our interview: "Could it be a precursor? Yeah, absolutely." He then went on to express, as his opinion, not as fact: "Is this the one that went to market? I don't think so."

They're just goofin.

Addendum

When I wrote this answer, I had no idea that it would get so "big" or that Skeptics.SE and Chemistry.SE had taken on the same issue. Had I known, I would have spent a little more time researching.  I have since done quite a bit more research and am now even more strongly of the opinion that the secret formula of Coke is just an ordinary trade secret, and the hype is just hype for the sake of marketing.

Furthermore, the recipe for the 7X (that's even what Coke calls its "ever so super-secret" formula) in the old book pictured at the top of this answer is genuinely either the original formula or a precursor to it. At any rate, it's darn close.

If you're interested in learning more about the handwritten recipe in the book, I strongly encourage you to follow this link: This American Life and listen to the recording of the radio broadcast about the book, the formula, and the hype.

Early in the broadcast, they make a point I've been saying since I first got wind of this completely over-the-top marketing gimmick. One of the legends of "the secret" is that only two people know it, and they never fly on the same plane (like the President of the United States and the Vice President).

"The company has always said, and as far as I know, it's true, that at any given time only two people know how to mix the 7X flavoring ingredient," Mark Pendergrast, historian and author of For God, Country, and Coke told This American Life. "Those two people never travel on the same plane in case it crashes; it's this carefully passed-on secret ritual, and the formula is kept in a bank vault." Time Magazine

Think about that for a second. If the vault contains "the secret" known to only the two men, and the two men died in the same plane crash, wouldn't someone at the company be able to open the vault? If the two men know something beyond that (or somethings, one version of the legend held that each man only knew half the secret), why wouldn't they also put that information in the vault?

Furthermore, if you have a really big secret that you'll go to any lengths to keep, would you shout from every mountaintop, "I know something YOU don't! Nee ner nee ner nee ner!"?

So I say again, yes, it's a trade secret; it's just a regular trade secret. It's not the Manhattan Project. The hype is just hype; the fact that we're talking about it now emphasizes how effective the marketing is. Buying into the hype is just drinking the Kool-Aid.

A: Use a sharp knife, dull knives don't slice, they split the same way an axe splits logs and that will generate that sideways force that throws carrot bits.

Also learn to practice your slicing and chopping technique. You shouldn't be dropping the blade straight down like a axe or guillotine. You should be moving the blade in a orbital movement, so that you are slicing in a forward direction while the blade is on its way down to and through the carrot. By slicing properly much less of your veg will have that energy buildup because they won't "snap" apart but will be sliced apart neatly.

Search YouTube for Basic Knife Skills and watch several videos, then practice, and start slowly. You will get faster with time and time only, don't rush it or you'll get sloppy and may hurt yourself.

A: Assuming you bought a rice cooker designed by a Japanese company (and apparently even other brands tend to meet that market's expectations), the measurement is 1-gou, slightly more than 180ml, which, by no coincidence, is also the typical measure of a wooden sake, cup, and is closely associated with a historical sake bottle size (approximately 1.8l)

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Masu_(Japanese)

It turns out that this amount, 1 gou of dried rice, neatly corresponded to a typical serving of rice. In practice, most contemporary Japanese eat about 1.5-2 gou per day; 1 gou of dried rice cooks up enough for 2 Japanese adults for one meal if you have several side dishes. There are other measurements that derive from the gou (or perhaps the other way around), such as the koku, which was considered the amount of rice that a single person would consume over the course of a year.

This is one of the human-centric forms of measurement that has survived the metric push; you can find various examples of this in many otherwise metric-converted countries. It turns out some studies show that those metrics often make certain categories of estimation easier for people.

Edited to cover the concern about matching the right amount of water:

It's worth noting that you don't need perfect precision for the amount of water, as long as you cook with the full cycle and not one of the express cooking modes. I can't remember the exact scientific principle behind it, but perhaps something to do with osmotic pressure. Some people use the remarkably effective method of measuring a certain amount of space between the dried rice and the water based on the size of their forefinger segment or thumbnail. It apparently works well for almost any imaginable size of pan (though you can have other problems with a pan too wide to have the rice cover the bottom). (Some types of rice do prefer more water than others, but within a single type, you have a fairly flexible range for the water ratio)

A: The lower (first) temperature actually cooks the potato so that it is tender, the hotter temperature (second) is what gives the crispy golden coating.

If you just did the lower temperature, your fries might be too soft. If you just did the hotter temperature they would be too too tough.

A: There is a kraut cutter, a wooden board about 2 ft long with a diagonal blade.  We used all the time when I was a child. We laid it on a large pot.  You cut heads of cabbage in half and push it over the blade flat side down.  Try google or an old fashioned hard ware.

A: The first thing is to do is thaw them properly before you cook them, half frozen vegetables will cool your pan too much. I often thaw frozen vegetables by soaking them in hot tap water, this is pretty quick and doesn't scorch them like microwaving them might. This might take a bit more time than microwaving but it's a much better result. 

You will never get the same result as fresh using frozen vegetables, this is because freezing changes the structure. Water expands when it freezes, rupturing cell walls, which impacts some vegetables more than others. Peas, freeze very well, carrots pretty well. Green beans, broccoli, cauliflower freeze okay, they come out a bit more limp than fresh. Thin leafy vegetables like spinach don't freeze well at all, they come out very limp, almost as if they're cooked already. This isn't a deal-breaker, just something to be aware of. On the rare occasions I use frozen spinach I will squeeze the hell out of it after thawing as it's water-logged. 

Cooking order will be important to sauteing them successfully. Water is the enemy of getting color on your vegetables, so you want to make sure they are relatively dry before you add them. Hardest vegetables go in first, like carrots, then medium ones like beans and broccoli, last you add the leaves because they take the shortest to cook and will give off a lot of water no matter how well you wrung them. You want the vegetables to be mostly cooked by the time you put the spinach in as the water will put an end to any browning. Peas go in last, they only need to be warmed through.

A: They may have been trying to describe "salt and Japanese pepper". Japanese pepper is unrelated to black pepper, but closely related to Sichuan pepper; its flavor has been described as "lemony" and it has a "numbing" quality. It's also known as "sansho". Mixtures of pre-ground sansho and salt are readily available in Asian grocery stores. This mixture is commonly sprinkled on grilled meats, so this would be my guess.

Of course, it's also possible they meant black and/or white pepper. There's a number of varietals of peppercorn, and how they are roasted, stored, and ground will have a significant effect on the taste.

A: I've been told that the shiny side should go on the inside for cooking, and the outside for freezing.  In other words, do you want to reflect the heat into the food, or away from the food?

However, common sense (which fails very often) tells me that with the temperature ranges involved, any benefit is marginal, if it exists at all.  

The only time it might matter, is if you were trying to warm something up in the sun.  Then it might make a difference.

EDIT:  From The Straight Dope:

  

The truth is that the shiny side is
  not treated with a dangerous chemical.
  Mineral oil is used as a lubricant
  during the rolling process, some trace
  of which may remain on the finished
  foil--but it's not dangerous. The
  shiny side is shiny because of the way
  foil is made. During the last pass
  through the rolling mill, a double
  thickness of foil is run between the
  rollers. The side of each sheet that
  comes in contact with the polished
  steel rollers comes out shiny. The
  other side has a matte finish.

http://www.straightdope.com/columns/read/1135/should-a-baking-potato-be-wrapped-in-foil-shiny-side-in-or-shiny-side-out

ALSO

  

The official word from the Reynolds
  aluminum people is as follows: "It
  makes little difference which side of
  the Reynolds Wrap aluminum foil you
  use--both sides do the same fine job
  of cooking, freezing, and storing
  food. There is a slight difference in
  the reflectivity of the two sides, but
  it is so slight that laboratory
  instruments are required to measure
  it."

A: You don't really need a lot of tasting spoons, just one. Use your stirring spoon to pour some into your tasting spoon without touching. Or if that's too tricky, serve a bit onto a small plate/bowl.

But if you're just cooking for yourself I personally wouldn't really worry about it, because in general you'll be cooking the food at a safe temperature, not just above the danger zone (140F/60C) but something safe for all meat (180F/80C) so whatever bacteria you put in with your spoon is just going to get killed. We routinely put potentially contaminated things like raw meat into our food while cooking, and let the heat take care of it; whatever you might be carrying isn't any more dangerous.

A: I think the primary considerations are convenience (how much effort is it to set up and use the system?) and time spent (how long does the system take to heat the water?).

A standard electric stove can have 2500W elements, and most of this energy will go into a kettle sitting on the element and thus heat the water. Even a big built-in microwave won't be rated at much more than 1000W, and a fair percentage of that is wasted in heating the magnetron (I've found citations of 30% to 50% wasted power). So, all else being equal, a kettle on a stove will heat a body of water 2-4 times as fast as a microwave oven.

If you're instead talking about electric kettles, then in the US (120VAC) they're 1000W to 1750W with very high efficiency, so they'll still be faster than anything but a stove or a commercial microwave. In the lands with 220VAC power, electric kettles can be up to 3000W, which would be even faster than a stove-top kettle.

With a mug of water the convenience of a microwave may outweigh the lost time, but if you're heating a liter or more of water then you probably want to pull out that kettle.

A: Bear in mind that I'm using an electric kettle, rather than a stove-top one.

First, the advantage of a kettle is that it is quite efficient, and turns itself off once the water is boiling.
This as opposed to the microwave, which only stops after a set time, rather than relying on the condition of the water. 

Second, a microwave can cause water to superheat, particularly in a ceramic or glass container. This means that there is a certain risk that the water will "jump out" at you once you add something to it or put a spoon in.

Additionally, most kettles have more power than the average microwave, so the kettle is probably faster to boil water.

A: The first two are types of sabers.  They’re used for butchering or cutting down large hunks of meat.

The next three are chef’s knives of different sizes.

The last one is a slicer, used for when you want thin slices of cooked meat.

A: I'm not going to comment on whether or not it is safe, because that could be any number of issues other than the brown coloring of the meat. However, the brown in and of itself is not an issue. When meat is exposed to air it turns a brown color. This does not effect the falvor of the meat, but the color turns a lot of people off. Grocery stores will actually throw this meat away, not because it is bad but just because people won't buy it. Terribly wasteful. 

  

From the USDA: Optimum surface color of fresh meat (i.e., cherry-red for beef; dark cherry-red for lamb; grayish-pink for pork; and pale pink for veal) is highly unstable and short-lived. When meat is fresh and protected from contact with air (such as in vacuum packages), it has the purple-red color that comes from myoglobin, one of the two key pigments responsible for the color of meat. When exposed to air, myoglobin forms the pigment, oxymyoglobin, which gives meat a pleasingly cherry-red color. The use of a plastic wrap that allows oxygen to pass through it helps ensure that the cut meats will retain this bright red color. However, exposure to store lighting as well as the continued contact of myoglobin and oxymyoglobin with oxygen leads to the formation of metmyoglobin, a pigment that turns meat brownish-red. This color change alone does not mean the product is spoiled

A: There's a great experiment on Cooking Issues that deals with this very problem. The general advice is to not crowd the pan because of the concomitant release of water; however, the guys found that doing this is actually beneficial because, although a lot of water is initially released, by the time the liquid has eventually evaporated the mushrooms have collapsed and cook far better in the oil that's left. Here's the full explanation:

To make the test really severe, I decided to cook the soaked mushrooms in one batch in an extremely crowded pan, and the dry mushrooms in 3 batches with plenty of room. We weighed out identical amounts of salt and oil (this is the crucial part) and began cooking.

As we expected, the soaked crowded mushrooms formed a soupy mess in the pan. The dry mushrooms didn’t stew and cooked quickly. Here is where it got weird. The dry mushrooms ended up absorbing all the oil. In fact, I had underestimated the amount of oil they needed. They wanted more. I couldn’t add any more oil, however, because it would have ruined the experiment. When the soaked and crowded mushrooms had finally evaporated all their extra water and stated to sauté, they didn’t absorb all the oil. When they were finished, a significant amount of oil was left in the pan. They looked as good and tasted better and less oily than their dry cousins –by a lot.

Our explanation: While the mushrooms are boiling off their water, they aren’t absorbing oil. By the time the boiling stops they have already collapsed, so they aren’t as porous as a raw mushroom and don’t want to absorb oil. The dry mushrooms start absorbing oil from the get-go.

What I do now is this:

- 

Add the all the chopped mushrooms to a pan over a medium heat with some salt
and water and cover.

- 

The mushrooms steam and release and ton of their own water: allow to cook
for a good 5-10 minutes.

- 

Drain the mushrooms - reserving the released mushroom water -  and
dry the pan before returning it to a high heat.

- 

When the pan is very hot, add  a few tablespoons of oil (depending on
the volume of cooked mushrooms) and throw in the mushrooms.

- 

When they are nicely browned, deglaze the pan with the mushroom water

The reason for the two stage process is that I found if you wait for the water to evaporate naturally the residue from the dissolved solids in the water can stick to the pan and burn while the mushrooms are frying. By covering the pan initially, the water doesn't evaporate and can be siphoned off with any dissolved solids (that now can't get stuck to the bottom of the pan) and then reintroduced right at the end. As the pan is so hot it only takes a minute or two for all the water to evaporate and any new fond created by actually sauteeing the mushrooms gets used as well.

A: I'm French, and I happen to know someone that uses this kind of spruce tips to make alcohol.

It's well-known in the Alps region of France. People tend to use these things to make "sapinette" (which means "small spruce"), a liquor appreciated by many peoples. They let the spruce tips infuse in a alcohol that was prepared in advance. The actual choice of which alcohol to infuse it in is vast, ranging from pharmaceutical alcohol to very tasty stuff and depend on what you prefer.

As for the final result, it most likely has a taste very close to spruce honey. People may like it or not (I personally enjoy it a lot). Its final concentration of alcohol is around 35 to 40 percent (again, depending on which alcohol you chose).

The dedicated page on the french Wikipedia indicates that the alcohol originated from Pontalier at the 20th century.

Take a look at the comments on this page. I learnt there that spruce tips can be used against throat pain and as a replacement for hops in beer.

A: Microwave ovens have a turntable because the microwaves themselves form what are known as 'standing waves'. This means there are essentially static columns of microwave energy inside the cabinet itself.

You can see this for yourself - spread a tray or plate with grated cheese, take the turntable out (or press that button), and zap it for a couple of minutes. You should see bands of melted cheese interleaved with unmelted cheese. Thus, the food is rotated to ensure even heating.

A: Ripening of the avocado is slowed down greatly by refrigeration, so it is usually a good idea to let the avocado ripen fully at room temperature. Once it is ripe, it can be stored in the refrigerator for at least a week. This way, it is ready to use whenever you want it. Fortunately, there is a day or two when the avocado is ripe, but not too ripe, so if you check on it everyday when ripening, you will be able to save it at the correct ripeness without worrying about it too much.

Putting an unripened avocado in the refrigerator may prevent it from ever ripening completely. Once cooled to near freezing (40F in most refrigerators), it seems that some avocados (maybe it depends on the type) don't ripen anymore, even when removed to room temperature.

A: Whether you are questioning it or not, what you are doing is not safe.  Your dipping oil, while I am sure it is wonderful, is a textbook example of how to create botulism toxin.
You should consider taking a sanitation course at your local community college.  I did and, while I knew most of what was there, it does reinforce the knowledge.

You will not be able to tell if something you have created will cause botulism ahead of time.  So the fact that everything seems OK is irrelevant.

Botulism is caused by a bacterium.  You can kill the bacterium by taking the whole mixture to 250 degrees Fahrenheit (think pressure canning).  Not useful for your recipe.
Another suggestion is to refrigerate and acidulate, as the bacteria grow in low acid, anaerobic (no air) situations. Garlic in oil is considered to basically be anaerobic, which is why the problem.

Create your dipping oil just before use, keep in the refrigerator for a short period of time, and maybe consider adding some balsamic to it to kick up the acid level some.  Or consider going with dehydrated garlic.

A: To clarify: forced-air (a/k/a "convection", a/k/a "fan bake") ovens rely on a fan to circulate the air in the oven.  The fast-moving air substantially enhances the rate at which heat is transferred to the food.  It is particularly good where you want the surface to brown, such as roasts and breads; it is not as good for more delicate items, such as custards and cakes, which can set too quickly or get dried out.  For cookies, it depends on what effect you want, but many standard types do well in forced-air ovens because the fan helps ensure that the whole oven stays at a uniform temperature despite the presence of several trays.  (Of course, the tray closest to the heating element will still cook faster than the one farthest away, so you will still have to swap them partway through.)

The general rule for using the fan is to set the oven temperature 25 degrees F (15 C) lower than what the recipe calls for using in a regular oven.  Even then, don't go strictly by cooking time, as ovens vary; rather, be sure to check on your food regularly to see how fast it is cooking.  You may need to cover your food to prevent over-browning, or perhaps adjust the oven temperature.

A: If it calls for tightly wrapping it, they're trying for steam.  More than likely, they're just trying to shield the top from radiant energy, so the top doesn't brown before the whole thing is cooked through.

If you're ever baking a cake, and it's starting to brown, but a toothpick is still coming out wet, I'll move it to a lower rack, and put a sheet pan on the rack above, to keep it from browning much further, but not seal it in such a way that it would steam the cake.

A: Use part of the shell you just cracked to scoop it up; it will attract the broken bit.

Also, if you frequently end up with bits of shell in your eggs, you should revise your cracking technique. Eggs should be cracked on a flat surface (countertop or plate) not a sharper surface like the edge of a bowl.

A: As Kosher salt goes there is also a difference in the types.  Many chefs (myself included) recommend and prefer Diamond Crystal brand Kosher salt.  Diamond Crystal (owned by Cargill) uses a patented process of producing salt known as the Alberger Process.  In in the interest of keeping the explanation simple, essentially it creates flat salt crystals with a hollow diamond shape and jagged edges.  The hollow shape provides for quicker dissolution and the jagged edges help it stick to food better rather than bouncing off as is the nature of the cubic structure of basic table salt.  For this reason many seasoning and food manufacturers use Alberger salt as a "dry emulsifier".  I was on a tour with Paul Prudhomme at his seasoning plant near New Orleans and he explained that the jagged edges help to keep it suspended and blended with other seasonings and dry ingredients. 

Morton's kosher salt is composed of large crystals that are rolled to flatten them.  They are flat but not hollow so take a bit longer than Diamond Crystal to dissolve.  

Morton's Kosher salt also has Yellow Prussiate of Soda added to it as an anti-caking agent ("when it rains it pours") which tends to leave a slight bitter (not as bad as iodine) taste in the back of the throat.  Diamond Crystal brand is simply salt.

Alberger salt has a lighter bulk weight than granulated salt so 1 teaspoon of Diamond Crystal salt is going to be less salt than either table or Morton's kosher salt.  Look at the two packages side by side in the store sometime.  They are both 3# boxes but the Diamond Crystal box is much taller due to the increased volume of the hollow crystals.  Looking at the nutritional information panels you'll also notice the serving size for each is 1/4 teaspoon but the Morton's has 418 gr. sodium per serving vs. about 200 for Diamond crystal (again, due to hollow crystals).  Some people recommend increasing salt by 25% when using Diamond Crystal in recipes.  In cooking you can easily salt to taste and know that since it dissolves more readily you should be able to determine seasoning by taste without oversalting.  In baking I typically use it measure for measure and haven't had any major issues yet.  In yeast doughs however you must be cautious to make sure that the crystals do dissolve in the liquid so as not to cut through the gluten strands during the kneading process (as well as to evenly disperse).

A: Ceramic knives:

- cut

- get through metal detectors at night clubs

Steel knives:

- cut

- smash (garlic, ginger...)

- pry (potato eyes)

- look good

- scare burglars

- stick to metallic thingies on the wall

- don't scratch glass cutting boards (anyone cringing?)

- don't snap when thrown dropped.

- have zen-like qualities, sharpening them is pure meditation.

- have good mass, more control IMO.

- have rivets as a handy measurement reference for consistent length cuts

- have a spine you can hammer to get through that bone (now who's cringing?)

A: Red pizza sauce is often (but not always) two things:

- 

Thicker.  Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings, otherwise thin is fine.  Depending on the crust, the heat of the oven, the toppings above sauce, and how watery it is, this may not be needed.  If you've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand.  If you've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese, precook and reduce the sauce.

- 

It's often simpler.  Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection.  They're all about the sauce.  Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it.  Many of the best pizzas are simply topped.  Crushed san marzano tomatoes (sometimes) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do, and franky, it's enough. I'm not talking about the jarred varieties here, but what you might cook at home.  Jars in the store, the main difference is just how thick it is.

A: What you're looking at is called (in the US) "cross contamination". You have a food generally considered "unsafe" (beef) that is coming into contact with a food generally considered "safe" (salad greens).

This contact makes the greens "unsafe" to consume raw.

  

Cross-contamination is the transfer of harmful bacteria to food from other foods, cutting boards, utensils, etc., if they are not handled properly. This is especially true when handling raw meat, poultry, and seafood, so keep these foods and their juices away from already cooked or ready-to-eat foods and fresh produce.

The rule in the US is to always keep these products away from each other so that the "safe" foods stay safe.

The only way to make the greens safe to eat is to cook them, thereby killing off the bacteria that may have been transferred to them in the juices of the meat.

A: Don't throw it away.  Worst case you use up the mystery sweetener on yourself, and use a new pack of Stevia for your wife and anything you share. That's what I recommend if you're not convinced by my solution or don't have sensitive kitchen scales.

At room temperature, sucrose (normal sugar) is very soluble in water: about 200 g of sugar will dissolve in 100 g of water.

It's harder to get a figure for the solubility of Stevia as it's not a single compound but a mixture of related compounds.  However various patents claim "high solubility" stevia preparations of around 30 g per 100 g water, or around 1/7 as much.  

This is enough of a difference to test: If (with plenty of stirring but no heat) the mystery sweetener will dissolve in an equal mass (weight) of water, it's sugar. If not it's stevia.  This only works if you weigh it.  You can't do this by volume.

You can always compare to known sugar; a comparison to know stevia is less useful unless it's identical, and brands evolve. The conclusion holds for fructose too (that's even more soluble), but glucose, which you're unlikely to have as pure powder at home, needs slightly more than its own weight of water to dissolve it.

Pure stevia is much sweeter than sugar, and when concentrated may have an aftertaste. It's also sold blended. When blended with other sweeteners the solubility test probably still applies (certainly in the case of erythritol, find in Truvia). Sometimes stevia is bulked out to make it a more direct substitute for sugar. The bulking agents may well be rather soluble and a source of carbohydrates (maltodextrin is sometimes used).

A: There is such a report, but you're not going to like the result.  According to KnifeGrinder's scientific test(PDF), plastic board materials other than low-density polypropylene are the least edge-wearing board materials you can get.  Wood wears the edge more than plastic, as a rule.

A: No. As you noted, searing beef performs what's called the Maillard Process (or Reaction) which is a specific form of caramelization. Nothing is "sealed" into the meat because the meat isn't sealed by the process. It's still porous and will therefore leech moisture during cooking. You can retain moisture in cooked beef by buying quality beef and not cooking it beyond medium-rare to medium.

A: I'm culling a lot of information from one of my favorite cocktail books for this one.

Yes, limes have a slightly higher acid content (on average) than lemons do - about 6% for limes, compared to 4.5% for lemons.  More importantly for their flavor, lemons have about 2% total sugar, while limes have somewhere between 0.5% and 0.75%.  Sugar/sweetness has quite a suppressive effect on the perception of sourness, so lemon juice will most likely taste a bit less sour than lime.

The composition of acids in the two also differ.  The acid in lemon juice is almost entirely citric acid, which also makes up most of the acid in limes.  However, limes include about 10% each of succinic acid and malic acid which have an effect on their flavor.  Malic acid is most recognizable as the sour flavor from tart apples and rhubarb.  About succinic acid, Wikipedia states:

  

It lends to fermented beverages such as wine and beer a common taste that is a combination of saltiness, bitterness and acidity.

Personally, I think the difference is perceptible in beverages, but less so in cooking.

Culturally, lime would most certainly be the traditional choice for Latin American cuisine.  Lime is much more readily available in Central and South America (three of the biggest producers in the world are located there).  How the difference in acid content would contribute to the browning of avocados is more questionable.

EDIT: Here's an interesting paper, suggesting that ascorbic acid (vitamin C) is more effective at preventing avocado browning than citric acid.  Which is an interesting wrinkle, because lemons contain significantly more vitamin C than limes do...

EDIT 2: And along comes Jolenealaska, with an experiment that seems to undermine the entire assumption that acid reduces browning of avocado at all!  Seems like the real secret may just be keeping your avocados either uncut, or refrigerated and tightly wrapped if you have to cut them ahead of service.

A: Supercook

Supercook's core feature is a "pantry inventory" system. 

You basically fill in all the ingredients you have in your kitchen. You are presented with recipe choices based on a subset of your ingredients, as you enter them. You can then "emphasize" certain ingredients which makes them a required ingredient in the recipes you are shown. It will also show recipes where you are only missing 1-3 ingredients; useful if you don't mind running to the grocery store. You can also exclude specific ingredients from recipe results.

Creating an account permits you to save your ingredients as well as your favorite recipes. You can also generate shopping lists based on the missing ingredients from your favorite recipes that you don't currently have in stock.

The quality of recipes varies a lot. Supercook sources its recipes from many other sites, including: Allrecipes, Recipezaar, Epicurious, FoodGeeks and others. Some sites (like Allrecipes) I feel have a lot of "filler" recipes, which are simply present for search results.

Epicurious

Epicurious doesn't provide the "pantry inventory" aspect that Supercook does, but it is very useful in its own way. 

With Epicurious you search for your main ingredient, e.g. chicken, and then refine your search using ingredients and other parameters such as: meal, dietary requirements, holiday, cuisine, and preparation method (among others). I find their interface very intuitive.

One of Epicurious' greatest strengths is the quality of its recipes. Many of the recipes are originally from the reputable food magazines Gourmet and Bon Appetit. I find the recipe ratings to be very accurate, and the community feedback on the recipes is also of a reasonably high caliber. I also find their original content recipes to be very high quality. They often come up with quality themed recipes for major holidays, including full menus.

They also have a useful iPhone/iPad app that provides recipe syncing. I often use the iPhone app when grocery shopping to check off ingredients that I need for whatever dish I'm planning to make.

Allrecipes

Allrecipes is another site I have used.

Allrecipes has a general purpose recipe search, similar to Epicurious. It also has an ingredient search that is similar to Supercook. The ingredient search doesn't provide the ability to save your pantry inventory like Supercook does, but is more of an ad hoc way to find recipes based on a list of ingredients and exclusions.

Unfortunately, I find the recipe quality to be rather low here. There are a lot of user submitted recipes which tend to range in quality from mediocre to atrocious. The feedback left by the community is also subpar. I tend to use it when I want a really basic recipe to use as a base for something more. They do have a lot of these "filler recipes", as I call them, which are very simple and often missing a thing or three that make them memorable. This is useful for experimenting or giving yourself ideas.

Food Network

Food Network is another site I use that functions very similarly to Epicurious. 

Food Network has a general purpose recipe search that permits filtering of results by cuisine, ingredients, technique, show, tv personality, and others. 

I use Food Network primarily to look up recipes that I've seen on a Food Network show before, but didn't record at the time. I also find it very useful for finding new recipes by a chef I like. It's pretty much the canonical source for all Alton Brown recipes for example.

The community feedback and recipe ratings are middle of the road. I find they are less reliable than Epicurious, but far more reliable than Allrecipes.

A: I never refrigerate eggs. They are marked for room temperature storage in UK and perfectly safe up to (and after) the use by date. Three days should be no problem unless you live somewhere really hot.

A: The USDA has this to say on it:

  

Storing Leftovers

  One of the most common causes of foodborne illness is improper cooling of cooked foods. Because bacteria are everywhere, even after food is cooked to a safe internal temperature, they can be reintroduced to the food and then reproduce. For this reason leftovers must be put in shallow containers for quick cooling and refrigerated within 2 hours.

You'll find similar statements from government agencies around the world.  The safe limit for raw or cooked food is 2 hours in the danger zone (40-140° F or 4.4-60° C).

If you're a restaurant owner or cook, you must follow this rule, hold hot foods above 60° C and quick-cool other foods before refrigerating.  If you are not working in a professional capacity then you are not legally required to follow it, but if you are serving guests then it would be irresponsible (and possibly actionable, if someone gets sick) to do otherwise.

If you're an individual serving only yourself, then take whatever liberties and break whatever rules you want; it's your food, and your body.  But there's no table or chart anyone can give you; there's no single specific point at which a food transitions from "not entirely safe" to "probably will kill you" because it depends entirely on the food, the environment, your immune system, and a plethora of other variables. The rule is 2 hours, period; any longer and there is some non-trivial risk to your health.

Some hints, tips, and warnings:

- 

The 2-hour rule is a conservative estimate with a safety margin. Don't ask what that margin is. It's like asking what the "real" speed limit is on a posted road; you might know from experience, but it could change depending on circumstances and exceeding it by any amount means you take your chances and accept the risks.

- 

Don't put large, hot items (such as an entire pot of soup or chili) directly into the fridge. The residual heat will warm up and potentially spoil other items in the refrigerator.

- 

To quickly cool large cooked items, use an ice-water bath and/or divide them into small containers. (Note: Don't use an ice-water bath for cast iron.)

- 

Don't assume that re-cooking an improperly-stored item will make it safe. Most bacteria produce protein toxins, which are actually the primary agents responsible for food poisoning, and several of these toxins are heat-resistant. Cooking will not kill or inactivate these toxins and eating the re-cooked food will still make you sick.

- 

Don't assume that cooking "kills everything" and that a cooked food or cooking surface is absolutely sterile. Cooking kills enough to make the food safe to eat, but some organisms - such as bacterial spores from bacillus and clostridium - can survive the cooking process and immediately start producing more bacteria. Sous-vide bags, crock pots, etc. are not safe environments for cooked food in the temperature danger zone.

A: Ants don't care about artificial sweeteners.  

Make two piles: one of your mystery sweet stuff and one of real sugar (as a control to make sure there are ants around). Maybe moisten them some or make syrup.  Leave them outside somewhere you see ants. Then check them later.  

Carbohydrates (sugar) are fuel for all animals.  Stevia has no food value.  Ants taste things differently than we do.  They only care about stuff with food value: real sugar.  They will not go to artificial sweeteners.

Experiment on yourself.

Or you could use yourself as a guinea pig.  Eat the ketogenic diet with your wife.  When your ketostix are good and purple you are in ketosis.  Then eat a hog load of the mystery powder.  Sugar will break ketosis within 15 min and your ketostix will go back to white.  If it is sweet and does not break ketosis then it is fine for the ketogenic diet.  That is what she really wants to know, anyway.

A: Microwave:  A microwave heats water and molecules in the food by using microwave radiation.  It will heat food efficiently and quickly, but does not brown or bake like a conventional oven.

Oven:  Fueled by gas or electricity and heats from the bottom (baking, roasting) or from the top (broiling).  The heat is from a single direction and not uniform.

Convection Oven:  An oven that has a fan that circulates heated air.  This allows for operation at a lower temperature while cooking more quickly.  It also results in a more even bake.

Convection Microwave (Oven): A combination of a microwave and a convection oven.  Allows for even, quick cooking that is browned or baked.

So, at the bottom of the scale is a microwave and an oven.  They each have different functions.  Then there is a middle tier that would be a convection oven - an improvement over the oven.  The top tier is the convection microwave oven that provides all the features:  quick cooking, heating, baking, browning, and evenness.

If you do a lot of cooking and only have a single oven, but find yourself wishing you had a second, a convection microwave would be useful for you.  If you want something truly multi-purpose, then yes.  Since each has a set of features it provides and/or lacks, it comes down to what best fits your needs.

A: In general, ceramic knives are great for what they do, but too fragile to do everything.   They can shatter if dropped on a hard surface, and can easily get get notched on bone.  I use my ceramics exclusively for vegetables for that reason.  

If you're strapped for funds, you really only need to by one expensive knife (a steel chef's knife or santoku), and one cheap one (a serrated knife for cutting bread).  After that, picking up knife skills is more important and will make your cooking better than any investment in more knives.

A: I'm interested in the common practice in commercial settings (I have a small home-cooking business, and I want to align myself with the norm in restaurants etc..)

Since this hasn't specifically been addressed yet, I'll throw in my experience in industrial kitchens/restaurants.

Plastic spoons. Hundreds of them. Thousands of them. Literally.

We had a bain marie at every station. At the beginning of every shift, it was re-filled with plastic spoons. Each station had their own box of spoons to refill throughout the shift. Every single dish was tasted at every single stage with a plastic spoon, which was then thrown out. I would say that I went through ~150 spoons on an average shift, god only knows how many when we were busy.

Purchased in bulk, the cost wasn't prohibitive. I would hazard a guess that a box of 2500 plastic spoons cost us about 30 USD.

While it might seem wasteful, the cleanliness/health payoff was worth it. I don't want to name names, but this was a multi-national, multi-billion dollar hotel chain (4 star/4 Diamond) and we had a third party come in and audit us 1-2 times a year, in addition to the Health Department. Both the third party and the Health Department had the authority to shut everything down at a moments notice if they didn't like what they saw. I don't know the statistics for the Health Department, but the third party rated our kitchens (we had three) in the top 10 cleanest operations in North America (within our company) more than once.

We also recycled the spoons, so there's that as well.

A: It is a good thing that you wrote up your assumptions, this helps greatly with explanations. To look at each:

- Assumptions 1,2 and 3 are true.

- Assumption 4 is false. You can't lacto ferment meat. There is only the edge case of cured sausages, and their fermentation process is very far from the lactofermentation of vegetables. Lacto fermenting dairy is done at high temperatures - from about 20ish celsius for Kefir, to up to 45 for some strains of yogurt culture.

- I can't comment on Assumption 5, since I have never looked into lacto-fermentation of legumes.

Looking at these assumptions, it looks as if you are equating the absence of botulism bacteria with food safety. This is certainly not the case! There are dozens of different kinds of bacteria which can cause food poisoning, most of which are more difficult to guard against than botulism bacteria.

Whenever you leave some food sitting out, you create a new microenvironment which gets colonized by its own ecosystem of microorganisms. Which type of organism will grow and displace all others is dependent on the conditions you offer it, just like in your assumption 2. It just so happens that, if you leave out vegetables at room temperature with the right amount of salt, it is the benign lactobacilii which proliferate best and occupy all the ecological niches in your fermentation jar. By the way, your fermentation can go wrong and create the wrong microorganisms, but they will not be c.b., that is usually seen under much stricter anaerobic conditions, such as in canned food and sometimes under oil.

But meat is not a vegetable; it is a different source of food, on which lactobacilii cannot thrive. Instead, you get other types of bacteria on meat, usually ones which cause food poisoning. To prevent that, you have to preserve meat by making it inedible for any kind of bacteria, before they have overtaken it. This creates different curing methods for it, which require very tight control and multiple bacteria-controlling methods at once (e.g. cold temperature plus the right amount of salt) to get a safe cured meat.

If you were to just leave your meat out in the conditions for a vegetable lacto-fermentation, you would get neither a lacto-fermentation, nor botulism, but just a crock full of spoiled meat, ready to give you some kind of non-botulinic food poisoning.

Update To the point in your edit: It is absolutely not safe to just add meat to properly fermenting vegetables. Actually food safety is much more cautious than that, and any kind of self-experimented recipe is not safe by definition, but this is one of the rare cases which are not just unsafe, but decidedly dangerous. Probably not because of botulism, but the other types of food poisoning are no joke either.

A: In the US, "extra virgin" isn't a legally protected term - some of the stuff sold as EVOO here would never, ever pass as it elsewhere.

From Wikipedia:

- Extra-virgin olive oil comes from virgin oil production only, contains no more than 0.8% acidity, and is judged to have a superior taste. Extra Virgin olive oil accounts for less than 10% of oil in many producing countries. It is used on salads, added at the table to soups and stews and for dipping.

- Virgin olive oil comes from virgin oil production only, has an acidity less than 2%, and is judged to have a good taste.

- Pure olive oil. Oils labeled as Pure olive oil or Olive oil are usually a blend of refined and virgin production oil.

Cooking-wise, the extra virgin stuff is best used in situations where it won't be highly heated. Salad dressings, dipping oils, finishing a dish, etc. are where it shines.

A: Yes, there is no real difference.

Be aware that if you one from the hardware store, it should be one where the flame does not fluctuate when you tilt the torch. This usually happens with the very cheap ones. This becomes a big problem when you try to uniformly brown something. 

Aside from that and maybe "esthetically" I see no reason not to use one from the hardware store.

A: You should never eat freshwater fish in raw preparations. Freshwater fish are far more likely to have nasty parasites such as the lung fluke, that can only be killed by cooking. There is a slew of other nasty beasts that can be harmful if not killed.

Unless you want to end up on an episode of Monsters Inside Me, stay away.

A: You stop the turntable when there's not room for your dishes to rotate - think large rectangular dish, or two plates fitting into the corners. At best, the turntable will strain and do nothing, and at worst, it'll make a mess.

Otherwise, it does help to get your food heated evenly. It can't fix everything, of course. The center point is always in the center, and even if your food is small enough to avoid the center, not all distances from the center will get quite the same heating even as they sweep out a circle. And no matter where your food is, the middle is always going to take a while to heat up. But it's a lot better than fixed hot and cold spots without a turntable.

A: "Al dente" is used to refer to food cooked so it is still "firm to bite" but not soft

This is very important to pasta which should be removed from the cooking liquid just before it has fully cooked through, as like most foods, it will continue to cook after being removed from the heat source

Always gently stir your pasta every minute or so while cooking to ensure it cooks evenly. Then near the end of the cooking time, bite into a piece of paste every 15 seconds or so to see if it has nearly cooked through. It should be firm to bite, and not soft all the way through. It should not resist biting though

With some pasta types like Penne etc. you can sometimes actually see the uncooked inner layer (a thin white line) if you carefully slice it in half which a knife, or just bite cleanly with your teeth

If the pasta is going to be mixed into a hot liquid sauce before serving, take the pasta out of the cooking liquid at an even firmer point

The term "al dente" can be used for all cooked foods that should be cooked to just before soft, and then served (fresh greens, thin meat cuts etc.)

The reason for all of this is that there have been many flavour and nutrition benefits noted when cooking to this point. Also for pasta it tends to fall apart if cooked past "al dente"

A: A few general reasons:

- 

As soegaard says, the salt is often better distributed through the food if it's added during cooking. This is especially true for foods which have been carefully assembled; you can't always just stir things up! Some foods also take a while for flavors to soak through; think about potatoes in a chunky soup. If you add salt only at the table, the liquid will benefit, but the potatoes will generally taste bland, like they were unsalted. Then there are things where it really needs to be cooked in - I doubt many people want to sprinkle salt on a chocolate chip cookie.

- 

Sometimes the quantities need to be pretty small, so mixing a small amount into the whole recipe is doable, while if you tried to add it at the table, even a little sprinkle would be too much. Baked goods are a good example here too.

- 

Virtually everyone likes at least a little salt, so it's usually quite safe to add at least a little. The food will end up tasting good to many people, and then some can add more. Often the groups of people that we eat with have similar enough tastes that it's a non-issue.

- 

Sometimes salt actually affects the cooking process, not just the flavor. It can help draw moisture out of sweating vegetables, softening them faster. It's abrasive (before dissolving, of course), and can help denature proteins.

But of course, if you're eating with people who don't like much salt at all, and salt can easily be added at the table (a pureed soup, for example), then there's nothing wrong with waiting until then.

A: I don't know about chicken specifically, but pork filled baozi (steamed buns) need to be stored in the refrigerator. Bread crust isn't exactly non-porous after all (squeeze a bun, the air doesn't bulge out of another part of the bun, it escapes and then flows back in when you release it).

I wouldn't risk it.

A: Sort of.

If you have sesame seeds on hand, grind some up. You could also use toasted sesame oil, and even combine it with the ground seeds.

You can also use all-natural peanut butter. Don't use mass market crap with sugar and other additives. The ingredients should list only: peanuts, salt. Obviously, this will taste like peanuts. It will still taste good in a hummus, but it will be a distinctly different hummus than with tahini.

A: A great resource for how long foods can be kept is Stilltasty.com. 

According to them, commercially bottled pickles (and kimchee would fall into this category) can be kept after opening for one year in the refrigerator.

A: My best recommendation is to taste as you go.  Taste the initial product...raw vegetable, ingredient from the can, bottle, etc. and then continue to taste and sample a dish throughout the cooking process to see how flavors develop/diminish and enhance one another through the cooking process.

Learning to season food is a process of educating your palate and developing a "flavor memory"

One of the most important factors is to use enough salt.  Food that is properly seasoned with salt shouldn't taste salty but will have a brighter more vibrant flavor of the ingredients that are in the dish.  Food must be cooked with salt for this to occur.  Food that is seasoned at the table will merely taste salty as the salt doesn't have a chance to dissolve and pull the juices out and help them mingle with one another as happens during cooking.

The more of the basic flavor profiles that you can incorporate the more lively and flavorful anything will be.  Even before cooking you can take a look at a recipe and "disect" its flavor profile by determining which ingredients will add sweetness, sourness, etc.  If you notice that it's heavy in one direction or another, the flavor profile of the item(s) missing will likely improve the dish.  Then it's a matter of deciding what ingredient with that flavor profile would be best to add to that particular dish.

Shameless (but applicable to the question) plug:
If you're ever in Savannah, GA I offer a class called "Flavor Dynamics".  It is focused entirely around understanding how flavor develops, what affects our perception of flavor, and how to create well rounded flavor in your food.

A: In my experience, they're best at concentrating mold spores, and hiding away unsightly loaves. 

While chic, and quite popular in the days before plastic bags, they're not much use now. Pretty much the same as the "pie safe"

A: Clean it immediately, before anything has a chance to dry.

As soon as I'm done grating anything, I run the grater under water and wipe it with a sponge. Wipe with the direction of the blades, then run a little water inside it. Optional: put the grater in the dishwasher to clean fully.

A: I'm in the same situation as you are, I'm a college student on a budget. What you need to do is convince yourself that it's better to cook your own food. I accomplish this by tracking how much I spend on food at the grocery store each week, and comparing it to buying fast food. I've been doing this since Summer of 2010 and trust me, cooking yourself is a lot cheaper. Per day, I spend about the same that I would on one meal (pizza, whatever), only that includes breakfast, dinner, snacks, etc. If you track it yourself, you will quickly find it's more expensive to eat out, although it is convenient. 

I also make a list of meals I would like for the week (I shop a week at a time), and use this list when purchasing and stick to it. You'll find that when you follow recipes, you can make a lot of substitutions for what you have on hand instead of having to buy another ingredient. 

To avoid losing ingredients, just stick them in the freezer! Meat, vegetables, whatever you're buying, most of it can be frozen. And frozen stuff lasts for weeks (minimum). Leftovers can be frozen too. When whole chickens are on sale for example, I buy them up (2-3 at a time) and freeze them until needed. 

The worst thing I find is (as you've probably seen) the time commitment. It takes time, but you if you cook more you get better at it. 

I also find that the less "processed" food is, the cheaper it is. For example, buy whole chicken or split chicken breasts instead of boneless/skinless/etc. and cut it up yourself. Look for the "reduced price" meats when their sell-by date is close to expiring, and freeze them. They are fine. Buy potatoes, canned vegetables, and avoid meals that come in a box! They seem cheap but they are more expensive than what you can do yourself. 

... and finally, the real motivation (for me at least) is that I got sick of the options available around campus. If you make your own food, you're not limited by a menu and eventually it will taste better!

A: Disagree with the umami analysis from @Carmi, even if it was a good attempt.  You have some basic facts wrong though.

- Cooked tomato sauce is high in umami, and is often combined with mushrooms, however, a sauce with mushrooms would not take parmigiano (also extremely high in umami)

- Mozarella is high in umami, like most fresh young cheeses.  So is tuna.

- Caesar salad has both anchovies and parmigiano (both high in umami).

But you are sort of on the right track.  Baked fish in Italy is not strong in flavor. It's delicate and calls for the following: fresh lemon.  That's it. Maybe some fresh parsley.  Usually cooked with no herbs and served with no sauce.  The fish should be extremely fresh and appreciated for it's delicate flavor.  Something like parmigiano would easily overpower the taste of the fresh fish and by putting it on fish you are telling the cook "this is fish gone bad and I need to cover the taste with something". Or if it was served that way, maybe better to avoid it because what is the cook trying to hide?  While there I never encountered a fish dish served with cheese.

Being a curious foodie and having lived in Italy for 5 years, I can also add the following:

- There are a LOT of rules that might seem strange to an outsider. No cappuccino after 10am.  You don't mix salty and sweet in the same dish, or even during the same course.  Beer with pizza, not wine. You would never drink coffee before or during desert, it's served after.

- While I was there I did a lot of thinking about the basis of some of these rules and concluded it's usually either 1) health, 2) taste, or 3) regional cultural rules.

- I asked the fish and cheese question a few times.  The answer was always "That's gross, you just don't put cheese on fish".  My guess is this one falls under 2 and 3.

The health angle from @Walter I think has a lot of validity in general.  Italians often complain of their liver hurting after eating especially 'heavy' meals. Heavy meaning something very specific in Italian: difficult to digest.  So a fresh salad with too much raw garlic could be considered heavy because garlic sometimes causes indigestion.  A huge chunk of parmigiano is not considered heavy because parmigiano is very digestable.  My guess is some of the rules come out of the particulars of the Italian digestive system.  Much like you will not find many Asians joining me when I chug my glass of milk.

A: Depending on brand, it is approximately 1 1/4 tsp per pound (US), or a little more than 1/4 tsp per stick (4 oz).   

For most applications, yes it is fine to substitute and adjust; you can just adjust the "salt to taste" step of your recipe in many cases.

There are a very few uses (such as yeast raised dough) where you want to be more precise.  I would not use salted butter for a yeast dough by preference, but if I had to, I would calculate the amount of salt to remove from the other ingredients based on this ratio:

1 1/4 tsp salt / 16 oz butter

A: My knowledge about the phenomenon itself is limited but I did see it mentioned in "Modernist Cuisine" (Nathan Myhrvold, p. 147)

  

Many recipes for foie gras, liver, sweetbreads, and other offal include a soaking step before cooking. For kidneys, 
  this step serves a very simple purpose: to remove any trace of the animal's bodily fluids. Recipes often call for 
  soaking foie gras, liver, and sweetbreads in milk. It is often said that milk improves the taste, purges blood, lightens 
  the color, or affects some other property of the meat. We were skeptical, so we tried several experiments. With 
  a mild-flavored organ meat like foie gras, we could taste a difference, but, frankly, in our tests, we prefer the taste 
  of water-soaked to milk-soaked foie gras. With stronger-flavored organ meats, there is even less of a difference than 
  with foie gras. So our suggestion is to simply soak the meat in water. 

So, there you have it.

A: The best way to open a brown hairy coconut, not a fresh green one (assuming you are right handed, I imagine that sinister people can reverse the instructions, but I've not tried it).  

First image the coconut is a head, everything is related to this, so the visualization is important.  The three holes are the eyes and mouth of the face.  They naturally form an eyes/mouth thing.  you'll see that it only really looks like a eyes/mouth one way up.  stare into its eyes (this bit is not so important, but I like to do it).  

Now hold it in your left palm, under its chin/where the neck would be, with the 3 holes in the coconut arranged like the eyes and mouth of a face looking out to the right, mouth below the eyes, with the hair pointing up.  There will be a slight 'seam' running between the eyes and back over the top of the head.

Then take a large, heavy knife and using the FLAT side of the knife (not the sharp edge), a meat cleaver works best, strike the coconut hard across the coconut's 'forehead', where its hair line would be, aiming to impact exactly on the 'seam'.  You might need a few goes to get the crack right open, but sometimes it can be done in a single strike.

Get this right and it will crack in a straight line from ear to ear along the hair line.  Works a treat.  And usually you can use the shell for something as you get a clean break.

Once you have the first crack you can either prise apart or rotate the coconut in your hand and hit it a couple more times on the uncracked parts, following the same line as the first crack, to completely separate the two pieces.

Alternatively you can stick it into the oven for 15 mins, @400F, after which the shell should have started to crack.  Then you can use the tool of choice to finish the cracking, rolling pin, hammer, wrench, flat of knife another coconut, whatever.  But where is the fun in that?

A: "Plastic chocolate" is a form of chocolate used for modeling and shaping decorative elements such as chocolate roses, ribbons and other elements for cakes and desserts.

Take about 1 lb. of bittersweet chocolate and melt over a double boiler.  When chocolate is melted, stir in 2/3 cup of light corn syrup. Mix until evenly blended and then set aside to cool.  When it firms up, wrap tightly in a heavy gauge plastic bag or wrap tightly in plastic wrap.  Let sit for several hours or overnight.  No need to refrigerate it, ambient temperature is fine.

Cut the plastic chocolate into smaller size chunks that will be easy to knead.  Begin kneading to soften it.  If it gets sticky, use a little cocoa powder but be careful not to dry it out.  Knead until pliable and then roll out to desired thickness and cut as desired to shape your sushi rolls, decorative elements, etc.  You can roll it through the roller of a pasta machine to help get it to an even thickness.

If you're wanting the rough look of nori then press some crumpled foil into it after rolling as previously suggested.

A: Many restaurants actually serve a "light" version of the Tso sauce, and I have a pretty strong feeling that's what you're used to.

To make the light version, you use 3x the corn starch and add 1/2 cup of the base liquid (usually chicken broth).

The hint of sesame almost certainly came from toasted sesame oil, my favourite "secret ingredient" that goes into just about every Asian stir-fry.

To get a more consistent flavour for the sauce, instead of using "minced" garlic, you might want to grate it using a fine rasp, if you have one.  This will definitely help to bring out the flavour of the garlic and subsequently the spiciness of the sauce.

Grated orange zest is another common additive, and although it's traditionally labeled as a different recipe ("General Tso's Chicken with Orange"), some restaurants sneak it into the regular recipe.  If you remember any hint of orange, try adding about 1 tsp of this.

Finally, if we're trying to recreate a recipe from an American Chinese restaurant, it's very likely they used some MSG.  You can leave it out, but we all know how much of a flavour enhancer it is.

I don't actually have an exact recipe kicking around, but adapting these changes to the "traditional" recipe, it should look something like this:

- 1 cup chicken broth

- 1/4 cup soy sauce

- 2-3 tbsp rice wine or sherry (to taste)

- 1 tsp toasted sesame oil

- 1/4 cup sugar

- 1 tsp MSG (optional)

- 1 1/2 tbsp rice vinegar

- 3 tbsp tapioca flour or corn starch

- 6-10 dried red chilies

- 1 tbsp minced ginger

- 1 tbsp grated or finely minced garlic

I'm going to skip the ingredients and preparation for the fried chicken itself, since that's pretty straightforward and no different from any of the "normal" Tso recipes.  So let's assume that part has already been done.  Here's how I'd make the sauce and finish it off:

- 

Combine the chicken broth, soy sauce, rice wine, sesame oil, sugar, [MSG], and rice vinegar.  Make sure that the sugar is completely dissolved.

- 

Add tapioca to the soy sauce mix and dissolve.

- 

Heat a few tbsp of oil in your wok and start frying up the chilies.  The longer you fry them, the hotter the final dish will be, so adjust the timing to taste.  Many restaurants skimp here, and either don't use enough chilies or don't fry for anywhere near long enough.  You're looking for a deep, dark red, almost black colour for optimum heat.

- 

Add the soy sauce / tapioca mix, garlic and ginger, and stir.

- 

Once thickened, add the chicken and serve with the broccoli.  (You most likely got it steamed, that's how it looks in the picture, although my choice would be to stir-fry it with some red pepper flakes.)

I can't promise you that this will be identical to what you got in the restaurants, as I haven't been to those restaurants, but hopefully this sounds a lot closer to what you had than the garbage you traditionally find in lower-end restaurants and on recipe sites.

Update: After reading some of the results of this experiment, I would add the following (better late than never, right?):

- 

The above ratio of starch to water will result in a very thick, almost paste-like consistency.  That's intentional, but if you want something more "saucy", i.e. to put on rice, then don't triple the starch, especially if you're using tapioca.  2 tbsp should be sufficient.  At the same time, keep in mind that it's always easier to dilute a sauce that's too thick than it is to thicken it in the wok once it's already hot.

- 

If you're finding that it's still not spicy enough (I, too, like my spicy dishes blazing hot), then try including any or all of the following in the sauce:

- 1 tsp chili oil

- 1 tsp hot chili sauce (proper chili sauce like sriracha, not tabasco)

- 2-3 fresh red chilies, cut into rings, with seeds (caution: very hot)

A: Salmonella can't survive boiling water, it would get killed at that temperature. It should be fine to boil everything in the same pot.

A: Funny enough I was until recently working under a certified pizzaiolo. Are you allowing it to rest properly? How long are you kneading it for? What is your method for shaping your dough?

Pizza dough, particularly if you are using proper 00 flour, needs a solid ten minutes of kneading before it rests. Resting time will vary depending on temperature and so on, but 2 hours seems excessive to me. Don't ever use a rolling pin to shape pizza dough; you've spent all that time working air into the dough, why squeeze it all out? Shape by hand, pulling towards you with your left while pushing away in a windshield wiper motion with your right and rotating the dough slightly on each pass.

A: Well, that is part of what is going on. Frying at the lower temperature does get it cooked through without over-browning. However, if you kept cooking, you could get it brown without crisping. So, actually it has a lot to do with the changes to the starch molecules in the potatoes. The lower temperature frying brings the starch and water to the exterior of the fry, forming a coating, that is then crisped nicely on the outside while leaving the interior softer when cooked at the higher temp. 

This blog actually explains it very nicely if you want more detail: http://aht.seriouseats.com/archives/2010/01/the-burger-lab-why-double-fry-french-fries.html

A: You might need to experiment a bit, but my guess is your bowl [or lid] isn't perfectly transparent to microwaves & is itself heating. In effect that's 'wasting' the microwaves. Second time the bowl is hotter, giving the popcorn a better chance.

You could test with just half an inch of water in the bottom of the bowl. If the rim gets hotter than the water, or even hot at all, reject the bowl for microwave use.

Personally, I won't use any bowl proven to absorb microwaves itself. It makes the process unpredictable… apart from the risk of trying to pick a bowl out that you expect to be cold at the top, to find it's skin-flayingly hot.

Try something plastic & heat-resistant instead, or just a paper bag, like supermarket microwave popcorn.

Comments below seem to be intent on inventing more & more weird & wacky ways to try avoid this simple two-minute elimination test, or alternatively propose ridiculous science-free theories.

I'm determined not to respond to any more of these ;)

A: To make sweetened condensed milk:

  

The best make-your-own version is to
  mix 1 cup of evaporated milk with
  1-1/4 cups of sugar in a saucepan,
  heat and stir until the sugar is
  completely dissolved, and let cool.
  
  

If you don't have evaporated milk on
  hand either, you can make your own by
  slowly simmering any quantity of milk
  in a pan until it reduced by 60%, and
  then adding the sugar.

Source: http://www.ochef.com/125.htm

Another recipe that sounds like a lot more work and uses powdered milk: http://www.ehow.com/how_4903555_make-condensed-milk.html

A: A big factor besides the dough is the temperature at which you bake the bread.

If you are not baking it at some recipe specified temperature you are probably playing on the safe side and your breads won't raise much.

You have to heat the CO2 pockets quickly so that they expand before the dough hardens. The more temperature you can give it the better.

Another possible factor may be the yeast. Are you waiting enough? Are you using enough? Like temperature, more yeast and longer fermentation times can't go wrong.

A: If it's refrigerated, it'll last for at least a week, as long as you didn't pre-dairy it. 

Unrefrigerated, I wouldn't trust it for more than a day. Coffee is a crappy growth medium and it should start out the next best thing to sterile, but, even covered, its going to start to get moldy.

Obviously if you add dairy, then you're dealing with that dairy shelf-life, and that isn't very long at all.

A: This answer is specific to OP's situation, and doesn't apply for the general case where "getting it wrong" has fewer consequences.

  

is there any surefire way to tell if this is Stevia and not sugar?

No, there is no surefire way you can tell.

Within the bounds of an everyday kitchen, and lay-person knowledge; there is no method by which you will be 100% certain of the contents of the jar. As this is for the health of your partner, who has a medical condition - it is not worth taking any risk whatsoever.

Furthermore; testing that the majority of the jar is Stevia, does not ensure that the jar only contains Stevia.

The cost of a new jar of Stevia, is far lower than the cost of accidentally harming your partner. I would strongly recommend not to take any risk, and accept the cost of replacement as part of your transition to a new, better labelled life-style.

Of course, the existing jar does not have to go to waste, I'm sure you have plenty of neighbours and friends who will happily make use of a jar of "probably Stevia".

A: The easiest way would be to make a very simple cookie dough that relies on a lot of dry ingredients.

I personally like to make different seasoned and flavoured banana cookies for breakfast and think the recipe meets all the guidelines you asked for.

As I personally prepare the ingredients also in jars and measure them by cup and teaspoon to make it easier for myself, I hope the recipe below works for you and your kid.

Basic ingredients:

- 1 banana (you can additionally add nut butter for liquidity)

- max 1 tsp baking powder

- ca. 1/2 to 1 cup of dry ingredients like granola, oats, flour or a mix out of them

Ideas for the dry ingredients and flavour/spices:

Basically, everything you like, which is dry and could be measured pre-hand e.g.

- nuts

- dried fruits e.g. raisins, cranberries, raspberries

- chocolate chips

- sprinkles

- coconut flakes

- seeds
…

It’s completely up to you, what you would like to add to the cookies. Be creative and experience with the flavours that your daughter likes. If sweet or hearty - there are no limits!

Just make sure to follow the steps in the order below and add a banana + baking powder + any kind of dry base.

Steps:

- 

Mash your banana with a fork in a bowl until it’s banana puree - consistency like a smoothie.

- 

Add all the dry ingredients (except baking powder and spices) until you have got a stiff but sticky dough.

If it runs off the fork it’s too liquidy, if you can knead it with your hands it’s too stiff. It should be somewhere in the middle.

As dry ingredients you can use: Oats, (e.g. coconut or spelt) flour, pre-mixed granola, nuts, dried fruits, sesame, puffed rice, a bit of couscous or quinoa, cocoa nibs, espresso beans, chocolate drops etc. etc.

If you add multiple ingredients, I would recommend starting with the smaller and finer ones and then adding whole nuts, etc. It’s easier to add only a bit of each, to begin with, and then more until the dough has got a nice, chewy consistency.

- Now mix ca. 1/2 to 1 teaspoon baking powder (depending on how much dough you have) and your spices.

I like to add organic turmeric powder or barley grass powder (the banana overpowers the flavour and the powder gives a nice colour), cinnamon, nutmeg or ginger.

There are no limits to what you can or can’t add. For example, if you are more of a crisp and less of a cookie person, add as dry ingredient sesame seeds and seaweed sprinkles and as spices sea salt flakes, umami and hot sauce or pepper.

You can adapt the recipe fully to your taste!

If you like your cookies extra crunchy or caramelised, add some coconut flakes, puffed rice, a drizzle of honey, etc. on top.

- Bake your cookies at 180°C / 356°F for ca. 15min. until they are golden brown.

A: You could - provided you have a specific custom freezer that can reach as low as -17° F / -27°C - produce whiskey ice cubes.

The question is, should you?

If you are cooling your drink, you are significantly reducing the amount of volatile compounds that you can smell and taste. A purist would probably scoff at the suggestion to drop an ice cube or two into their prized single malt and the Cognac aficionado would lean back, gently cradling their sifter in the warm hand and shaking their head. But seriously, you would be dulling the taste of your cocktail and likely touching said whiskey ice cubes wouldn't be nice either.

A: Storing bread in the freezer you can store for several days and keep it soft.

To eat, remove from the freezer and put in the oven.

A: There are typicality four types of olive oil available, with Extra Virgin being at the top of the quality tree:

Extra virgin olive oil is mechanically pressed (you may see the term cold pressed) rather than being produced by chemical means. I has an acidity level of less than 0.8%. It is also tasted for flavour before being certified.

Fine or Virgin Olive Oil has an acidity of less than 2%. It often uses slighter riper olives. Olive oils with the low acidity of extra virgin but which haven’t passed the official taste test also fall into this category.

Ordinary Olive Oil is usually used to produce refined oils with a bland flavour. 

Pomace Oil is processed from the paste left after the first pressing. It is generally quite flavourless and of low quality, usually only used for deep frying.

Exceptional quality Extra Virgin olive oil is still made on hand presses and hence the cost can be quite high.

A: Hot Air Popper

The cheapest and simplest is to use a (cheap) electric hot air popper. The old favorite is the West Bend Poppery, but you can use anything as long as the vent holes (where the hot air comes in) are on the sides rather than the bottom.

I've roasted a lot of coffee this way. It works, but there are a few downsides. The biggest problems:

- The circuation is designed for popcorn, which expands a lot more than roasted coffee beans. I've needed to stir the beans manually in order to get an even roast. They don't have to be stirred constantly, but you can't just drop the beans in and walk away.

- The capacity is pretty low, especially when you take the circulation into account. I can only roast a half a cup at a time, which is pretty slow.

- The temperature doesn't get quite high enough to really bring the flavors out. The roast is good, but it's really mellow.

[source: Chris g Collision, Flickr Creative Commons]

I've read about modifications you can make that will improve these: changing out resistors, modifying the airflow, and even hooking up an Arduino to control the heat a lot more closely, but it seems like more work than I've wanted to invest in the process.

Heat gun / metal dog bowl method

My brother's moved on to this approach, and I'm soon to follow. The benefit of a heat gun is that the temperature is high enough to get a good roast, and the airflow is high enough that you can roast a few cups of coffee at a time.

[source: Ocell, Flickr Creative Commons]

More Insanity
Sweet Maria's sells green coffee beans, and lists a huge amount of home roasting methods, including Weber Kettle conversions. The sky's the limit, but I'd start small with the air popper or the heat gun first.

I'd do this outside
Some methods have you roasting the coffee in your kitchen - in the oven, on the stove, etc. I wouldn't want to do this myself, for two reasons. The beans have thin husks on them, which come off as the beans are roasted. They're messy, and I wouldn't want them flying around my kitchen. Also, roasting coffee doesn't smell as good as you'd think it would.

Sources of more info:

- http://www.ineedcoffee.com/section/roasting/

- http://www.sweetmarias.com/articles.php#roastAndBrew

- http://www.sweetmarias.com/homemade-homeroasters.php

A: Low and slow is the only way to go, I'm afraid. You can add some broth and simmer them down (as opposed to just cooking them in oil) but make sure you add little enough that it will all evaporate...Don't want to be pouring off flavor.

A: I make a pretty large quantity of homemade mayo and have never had a problem keeping it longer than that -- Good Eats uses a week for their recipe and for me it lives a month, easy, with no detectable reduction in quality. There really is enough acid and salt to deter most bugs if you like it strongly flavored (and let's be honest, mayo should be strongly flavored because it's a sauce made of fat and you might want to minimize the quantity applied). I'd also take the advice of stilltasty.com that while color, flavor, or texture may change it's generally still safe to eat refrigerated mayo even after it's notional "use-by" date.

In short, I strongly advise more salt and acid if you're worried (and also because it's tasty), but I also strongly advise a lack of worry.

A: The USDA, generally on the very safe but a bit paranoid end of the spectrum, says:

  

After eggs are refrigerated, they need to stay that way. A cold egg left out at room temperature can sweat, facilitating the movement of bacteria into the egg and increasing the growth of bacteria. Refrigerated eggs should not be left out more than 2 hours.

(They also say some very sad things about Easter egg hunts.)

So if you're being strict, three days would be way too long. In reality, you'd probably be okay. The chances of getting salmonella are definitely higher, but are presumably still small (though I can't say exactly how small, of course). Personally, given the price of a dozen eggs, I'd probably play it safe.

Another answer mentions that in the UK eggs are stored at room temperature. That's true in quite a lot of places, but I'm guessing that they've avoided the large temperature swing issue mentioned by the FDA, so if your friend's eggs were refrigerated in the store, the situation's not quite the same as in the UK.

Q: What is the rind of Brie cheese made of?

We were eating brie cheese last night, and someone asked if the rind was edible.

I was tempted to say "yes, it's not plastic". But then I realized that while it doesn't look like plastic or wax, I really have no idea what it's made of.

Is it chemical? Is it organic? Maybe fungus or bacteria? In that case, what kind (and would eating too much of it be unhealthy)?

I've seen the question Are you supposed to eat the rind of Brie cheese?, but none of the answers mention what the rind is made of.

Q: What temperature does the Maillard reaction occur?

There seems to be a lot of disagreement about the temperatures and conditions under which the Maillard reaction can occur.  Cooking professionals reference all sorts of "minimum temperatures" -- I've seen sources say 350°F (175°C), 310°F (155°C), 300°F (150°C), 250°F (120°C), 230°F (110°C), and boiling (212°F/100°C) all given as a minimum.  Many sources say it cannot occur in the presence of water.

Previous questions on this forum that have discussed the Maillard reaction have also included statements about temperatures, often in disagreement with each other.  (See, for example, here, here, and here.)  Many answers and comments on answers also have conflicting information.

It's clear that the Maillard reaction requires proteins and a reducing sugar.  It is also clear that it will happen at neutral pH or higher, but acidic conditions will significantly inhibit it.

But what temperatures can it actually occur at?  Are there examples of the Maillard reaction occurring at lower temperatures?

(I will offer my own answer, but I would certainly be interested in hearing of other examples and information.)

Q: How to avoid getting arm hair in food?

Sorry if this question is slightly gross.

I happen to have a significant amount of hair on my arms and the back of my hands.  When preparing food using my hands (e.g. kneading dough), sometimes hair gets in the food.  How can I avoid this?  What would a serious / professional cook do?

Would they wear gloves and long sleeves?  Would they shave their arms?  Are there other approaches?

Q: What are the benefits and drawbacks of washing dishes in hot water?

When hand-washing dishes, it seems commonplace to wash dishes in hot water.

This LifeHacker article about washing your hands in hot water versus cold water points out that:

  

It's certainly true that heat kills bacteria, but if you were going to use hot water to kill them it would have to be way too hot for you to tolerate

But sometimes when hand washing dishes the water can be uncomfortably hot (i.e. you wouldn't put bare skin under it for extended periods of time and consider that gloves are sometimes worn) -- hotter than what would be discussed in the article.

Also consider this Housekeeping About.com article in which it asserts claims about using hot water:

  
  
- 

Cleaning Power
  
  
  
- Hot water actually helps to lift away and clean dirty dishes
  
  
- 

Killing Bacteria and Microorganisms
  
  
  
- Hot water is needed to effectively kill bacteria on dishes
  
  
- 

Cutting grease
  
  
  
- 

Water temperatures under about 90 degrees will leave a nasty greasy film on your dishes
  
- 

Grease cutting ability is severely hampered by cool water
  
  
- 

Drying Time
  
  
  
- Hot water dries much more quickly on dishes than warm or cool water
  
  

And also: 

  

Dishes will dry spot and streak free with hotter water

However, these all seem to be claims that can be easily assumed. Since most people use warm-to-hot water they would assume it is the reason the dishes are spot free or rinse off easy. Reading the article leaves me asking "why?", how?" and "but wait I just saw a source saying the water isn't hot enough to kill bacteria and microorganisms?".

There are no sources for the information either, and the fact it is About.com leaves me skeptical.

What, if any, benefits are there of hand washing dishes in hot water? What about drawbacks?

Q: Grilling veggies & meat on same surface for vegetarian guests

If I grill veggies and then grill meats (or vice versa) on the same surface, is heating and brushing the grill an adequate method to assure I haven't offended a vegan or vegetarian?

Q: How to keep onions from sinking in a salad

How to keep onions from sinking in a salad?

I like raw and cooked onions.  

I like raw onions in a lot of salads but the problem is diced onions end up in the  bottom of the bowl.

Q: What is this one-handed tool with five dull steel "blades" called?

I've been using it to break down clumpy powders, it's the best thing I have for the job by far, and I need to buy more for people helping me.

Q: What can be done with accidentaly oversalted beef?

I mistakenly marinated some thin beef with regular salt for one day before barbecuing it, turns out you're not supposed to do that! Even after washing it, it is unbearable to eat it by itself.

I'm using brazilian "Coxão Mole" which I tink translates to topside.

I was thinking it has to be some kind of sauce, maybe tomato based, but how? Never done it with pre cooked meat before.

It feels horrible to mess up so much food, I can't throw it away.

Here's a photo if that helps, it's very soft:

Q: What are things like Bread, Rice and Cereal collectively known as?

I'm not sure if this belongs here or in the English language stack exchange but here goes: 

We have broad classifications like "Fruit" and "Vegetable" and "Meat"/"Protein". What do you collectively call bread, rice, pasta, cereal etc. My first guess was "Grains" but that feels like referring to the unprocessed thing rather than the food.

Q: Why is mustard irritating for me?

I thought I bought mustard, but when I put it on a hot dog and ate it, it didn't taste like mustard. It irritated my nose and sent a shockwave through my skull. So I bought a different brand, but there was not much difference. I feel that irritating, tingling sensation rippling through my head whenever I take a bite. I think it's yellow mustard, the label says "table mustard". I don't recall having this reaction when eating mustard from McDonald's.

Q: Israeli soda type drink

Recently I had this amazing drink in a "Israeli style bistro" in St Petersburg, Russia. I can't remember the exact name, something beginning with 'J', like Jollo, Jalla or something. It had a really interesting flavour with hints of spices and citrus and it was topped with pistachios, sultanas and pine kernels. It had a delightfully golden brown hue and it was carbonated. Could it be based on an actual traditional Israeli drink? I want to try to make it at home! I already contacted the restaurant but they wouldn't disclose anything about the drink.

Q: How much caffeine would there be if I reuse tea leaves in a second brewing?

If you look for information about the amount of caffeine present in a cup of tea, the amounts vary depending on the kind of tea, if the tea is bagged or loose leaves, the brand, and other factors. Nonetheless, the values estimated range from the 25 mg in a cup of white tea to 50 mg in a cup of black tea, or maybe more.

Let's say I use 2 grams of black tea leaves and I brew them in 200 ml of almost-boiling water for the reccomended time of 5 minutes. I get a cup of tea with an estimated amount of caffeine of 50 mg. But then I reuse those same leaves and I brew them again in another 200 ml of water.

What would be the estimated amount of caffeine in that second brewing? Are there estimates for that? Can the result be at least expressed in an estimated percentage with respect to the amount obtained in the first brewing? Would that percentage be the same for other kinds of tea (green, red, oolong...)?

Related:

- What is a reliable source for the caffeine content in tea?

- How much EGCG and caffeine can specific amount of water absorb from tea leaves?

Q: What are these tiny kidney bean sized things in my rotisserie chicken

I was trying to separate the bone and chicken meat to make soup when all of a sudden I see these tiny kidney bean things.literally the same size and everything but it was inside the chicken. Which is a rotisserie style chicken from the store. What are they. I cut into them no weird stuff and im sure they are too small to be the chickens actual kidney. This chicken was way too big

Q: Is my microwave damaged if I can smell the food inside it?

I think I can smell the food inside my microwave. Is that bad?

I figured it's not necessarily unsafe, since you only need a cage to block the microwaves from escaping, but I'm not familiar with the precise architecture of a microwave oven.

Q: Why does cooking fewer eggs require more water/steam?

I have purchased a Nutri-Q 34360 Healthy Eating Egg Boiler:

How does it work? - The eggs are cooked through hot steam. The instructions will guide you on the amount of water that is required depending on the quantity of eggs.

It comes with a little measuring cylinder for the amount of water to add which has gradations that look something like:

I understand why more water is required to hard boil eggs compared to medium cooked eggs (they need to be cooked longer).

However, I don't understand the gradations within each range (the number of eggs to be cooked).

Why does, for example, cooking 1 medium egg require more steam than cooking 3 medium eggs? Surely it should be the other way around?

Can someone enlighten me?

Photo of the parts:

Q: Does cooking food inside a pressure cooker and then leaving it locked preserve it similar to canning?

I have made some food in my pressure cooker and left it in room temperature for over a week. When I opened it, there was no mold. I threw it out because it might have still been bad, but this got me thinking.

Since canning is basically cooking food in a sealed environment, isn't pressure cooking similar when I do not open the pressure cooker? Could the food be left in the pressure cooker  at a room temperature for a longer time, given that I pressure cook it every time I close the lid?

Q: Is there a trick for softening butter quickly?

I often don't realize a baking recipe requires softened butter until after I start adding in the other wet ingredients and it's too late to wait for butter to soften the normal way (with time). So, I will usually microwave the butter until it accidentally all melts or add in the butter when it's still too hard, which impacts the overall success of the recipe. What are some tricks for softening butter quickly?

Q: Cutting boards: What are some general tips on purchasing and using a cutting board?

I have heard various debates on the merits of wood versus synthetic cutting boards, and their affect on food safety, knife edges, and ease of cleaning and storage.

What are the pros and cons of the following and why?

- Wood versus plastic or other materials

- Affect on food safety and cleanliness

- Cost to purchase

- Affect on knife edge and ease of use

Q: Unnecessary kitchen gadgets: a reference

There are a lot of advertised tools and electronic gadgets for every field; the kitchen is no exception.

In my experience, there are a lot of useful tools for specific purposes (a garlic press, for example) but there are also a lot of seemingly useless ones.

A useless gadget or tool is defined as one that

- does not actually help make the task it was designed for easier

- may cost more than the proper tool or set of tools (or the technique)

- unnecessarily complicates preparation

- may incur injury or increase likelihood of injury

- something that gathers dust and never gets used

So, list any that you have encountered and warn others to steer clear of, and include the reason why. This is a community wiki.

Q: How does the way that I cut my garlic affect the taste of my food?

I've seen recipes that called for coarsely chopped garlic and recipes that called for finely chopped or minced garlic. What affect does that cut have on the final taste of my dish? What about crushed garlic?

Q: How do I flip an egg when preparing it "over easy"?

I tend to break a lot of yolks when preparing eggs over easy. I also can't do it too fast, making it hard to cook multiple eggs at once (they tend to overcook). 

Sometimes the spatula I'm using doesn't want to slide under the egg very easily. Is there anything special about the type of spatula or special preparation with the pan or eggs that might make this harder or easier?

Q: How to stop meatballs falling apart when frying

I tried cooking meatballs as a change to what I usually cook but I found that they didn't stay together when being fried.

I made the meatballs with about 500g of mince, a chopped onion, some herbs and a beaten egg. I then mixed everything up in a mixing bowl and then fried.

After I realised that they weren't saying together when being fried I tried adding another egg, but it still didn't help.

Does anyone have any suggestions as to what I did wrong, or what I could try next time?

Q: Can I freeze roux?

Is it possible to prepare a (large) batch of roux and then freeze it, or will the texture and flavour be destroyed in the process?

Q: Cutting Sushi Rolls

I am new to making sushi and have gotten the hang of rolling it with the nori on the outside.  The problem is when I am trying to cut it into individual pieces, I often end up mangling it to the point where it looks like it would be unpleasant to eat it.  Is there a trick to getting a nice smooth cut through the roll?  The first one of the day seems to always be the worst.

Q: How to store brown sugar without it becoming hard?

I put a clothes pin on my opened bags of brown sugar and keep them in a dark pantry at room temperature.  Since I don't use it very often, it becomes hardened.  My work-around is to use a grater to grate it but it would be useful to avoid the problem in the first place.

How should I store it to prevent hardening? Do I put it in the freezer? If so, does it need to come to room temperature before using it?

Q: What are the differences between an induction stove and a regular electric stove?

What are the differences between an induction stove and a regular electric stove?  They are both electrically powered, and don't look all that different, but the induction cooktops I have seen are a lot more expensive.  

What difference does the type of stove - induction vs electric - make to the actual cooking process?

Q: How do you cook grass-fed beef so it is not tough?

I recently went to a farmers market and bought some grass-fed beef.  I went with what we normally buy, and got a couple of bone-in thick cut ribeye.  I typically prepare this by liberally applying salt and pepper, letting it come to room temp, grilling (gas) over high heat for a few minutes on each side to about 125-130, then letting it rest for 10 minutes or so.  This gets it to a good medium-rare after resting.  I then slice it across grain, cutting each piece about .25 inch think.

This works great, and loved it every time.  I love the ribeye since it has a good amount of fat (thus flavor), and it not too tough.

The guy we bought the grass-fed beef from warned us that they typically are a little tougher and less fatty so they typically marinate overnight.  I thought this was odd for a ribeye, and prepared it like normal.

Although the flavor was VERY BEEFY (almost too much), way more than the typical high end (probably corn fed) beef we buy, it was SO tough.  It was like leather.  I guess this is not uncommon for grass-fed beef, but what should I do next time to make this more enjoyable?

Marinate?  Emulate dry aging by cooking low temp for a while, then grilling?  Any other tips?

Q: Is it possible to make a marshmallow that isn't sweet?

I've got in mind to make a savory play on s'mores, using morel mushroom paste where you would expect chocolate. The graham cracker replacement should be no problem. But I'm stuck on the marshmallow. If you google savory marshmallow, you basically find a bunch of standard sweet marshmallow recipes that have had some savory things added to them. I want to make one that isn't sweet at all, or only barely so, but with a recognizable marshmallow texture. Any ideas on how to approach this? I'm not asking for the recipe, just a sense of what set of ingredients and techniques  have a prayer of reproducing that texture with minimal sweetness. Bonus points if it can be done using some other hydrocolloid instead of gelatin, since ultimately I need to make it vegetarian.

Q: Powdered milk in bread recipe

I have a book with several bread recipes that call for 1-2 tablespoons of powdered milk. This isn't something I usually use and I was thinking substituting it with normal milk, and putting less water to compensate for the added liquid. Would this be ok? And if yes, how much milk should I put for one tablespoon of powdered milk?

Q: How do I make homemade Salsa thicker?

I have been playing with homemade salsa for a few weeks now and I can't seem to figure out how to get that thicker tomato texture that a lot of southern Mexican restaurants have.

Right now I play with these ingredients:

- Tomatoes

- Onion

- Jalapeño

- Cilantro

- Lime Juice

- Garlic Salt/Cumin

This seems pretty basic stuff for salsa, but it has a pretty watered down feel no matter how I swing it. How do I get the tomato base that some of the classic salsas have in order for everything to hold on the chip a little better?

Update

I really wanted to accept two answers because I like both depending on what I am doing. For a fresh salsa (pico de gallo) straining the juice from the tomatoes seems to work really well. But for the thickness I was going for the key was experimenting with Tomato Paste/Cooking the salsa. I am able to get a much thicker salsa that I enjoy much more. I did learn how to create killer pico de gallo from this though.

Q: How to quickly soften hard, dried out brown sugar

I had some brown sugar that didn't get properly sealed and so now it's too dry and solid as a rock.  What's the quickest way to soften it up and get rid of the clumps? Folks have suggested leaving an apple with it in a bag overnight; any suggestions of a shortcut for rehydrating that takes minutes instead of hours or days?

Q: Which torch to buy for finishing sous vide meat? Butane or propane?

I have started cooking sous vide and am thinking of buying a torch to finish off the meat. I have seen stores selling little butane torches for creme brulees, but some have claimed they are not hot enough and I should use propane.

On the other hand, some have claimed that propane leaves a flavour in the meat that should be avoided.

Anyone tried both? Anyone uses the little butane torches? What kind of flavour does the propane impart?

Q: How to prepare butter for baking when time is limited?

From my experience, the best way to use butter when baking is to let it soften to room temperature. However, sometimes one is short on time and must use the microwave to soften the butter. I always felt that cookies are better when the butter is a little firmer. Why is that? Is there a better way? Should I simply defrost the butter in the microwave carefully? Perhaps put it in a closed bag and run it under warm water?

Q: Should Chorizo Be Peeled Before Cooking?

For years I've been chopping up Chorizo and cooking it, with no other preparation. I've recently been told that I've been doing it wrong and should peel the Chorizo first. It's pain to peel, and I've not noticed any difference.

What is the skin of a Chorizo sausage made of, and should it be removed before cooking or not?

Q: What can I cook for Indian guests without trying to mimic Indian cuisine?

I am raised in Belgium, with the Belgian cuisine related to the French and (to a much lesser extent) the German. I'm having Indian friends over for dinner and I don't know what to cook for them.

Last time I had an Indian friend, I tried to cook something authentic, the way my grandma would have prepared it: lots of veggies, with very little spices and not too salty. It was not a hit. Indian people are used to very spicy food (compared to Europeans).

I don't want to try to mimic the Indian cuisine in front of Indian people. That won't work. But I still want to prepare something that they will like, based on our local culture. Can you give me any suggestions?

Q: Can extra virgin olive oil be used for stir frying, roasting, grilling?

I'd like to use extra virgin olive oil for the above mentioned cooking methods as opposed to other oils/butter. Are there any downsides to it, or can it be used safely in all those cooking methods? Is there anything that it doesn't work well with?

Q: Does adding salt when soaking dry beans toughen or soften the skin of the bean?

I have heard opinions on both sides of this.  The the latest answer on this site, says salt softens bean skins quoted Cooks Illustrated (I can't see the article, but I trust CI), while another answer says salt hardens the beans' skins.

In case is varies by bean, I'm interested in:

- Kidney Beans

- Black Beans

- Small Red Beans

So which is it?
Inquiring Minds want to know.

Q: Is there something better than mineral oil for cutting boards?

I've been using mineral oil to oil my wooden cutting boards ever since I found out this was a good thing to do.  I had a couple of bamboo boards up until I bought a really great John Boos carving board (made of maple).  

When I bought the maple board, I noticed they sold something called "mystery oil".  A few searches later, I found it appears to be a mix of mineral oil and linseed oil. 

Since then, I have been using just mineral oil on the board(s) with no ill effects.  However, I have been wondering if there is a benefit to using something other than just straight mineral oil.

Can anyone weigh in on this?

Q: How do I ensure that pita forms a nice big, even pocket when baking?

I have the opposite problem as Amir's question about thick, fluffy pitas. Whenever I make pita, it's nice and thick and fluffy, but the pocket is small or nonexistent. I would like to use my pita for sandwiches, so the pocket part is important.

Normally when I make pita, I get a pocket forming on one side of the bread, but the other side stays flat. I end up with a lopsided pita that has a pocket too small to stuff anything into. Every once in a while, I get one with a perfect pocket that evenly puffs up the whole pita, but I don't know why it happens sometimes and not others. Could this be caused by uneven heat in my oven? Or is there something about the technique of rolling out the dough that I'm not doing consistently?

Q: What makes a bread either close or open crumbed/textured?

What causes the texture of bread to be open, ie with lots of large holes, or close, ie a regular, uniform tender crumb with no large holes? How can I achieve either?

Q: Why are there no recipes combining both yeast and baking powder?

I've never seen anything with both yeast and baking powder. What's the reason for that? Shouldn't e.g. muffins get even more fluffy by adding some yeast? Or bread by adding baking powder?
I know there are differences in flavor, but there are cakes with yeast as also non-sweet things with baking powder. So that shouldn't be the problem...

Q: Is it okay to keep flour in the freezer?

Years ago I noticed I was getting little bugs in the flour that I kept in the pantry.  To prevent this, I started keeping my flour in the freezer.  I don't do a lot of baking, but I was wondering what effects this might have on anything I do bake.

Do baked goods turn out any differently when flour is kept in the freezer vs flour kept at room temperature?  Also, if it's okay to freeze flour, how long will it last this way?

Q: Is a steak OK to eat if it fell down, but I cooked it afterwards?

If I am cooking steaks at a grill and one of them accidentally falls down on the floor/ground, is it safe for me to wipe it and cook it for a certain amount of time (till it is pretty well done) and then eat it? Or should I throw it away?

Q: I bought Mainland's vintage cheddar, it tastes... stale?

Normally I bought a cheddar slice, which I've been eaten since child. It has a smooth and milky taste. This time I wanted to try something premium so I bought the pricier, but same kind of cheese. (cheddar)

However, when I taste it the texture was very crumbly, the edge of cheese is riddled with white spots (is that germ/fungis?) and the taste is considerably "sour" and with bitter aftertaste. I can't believe this is the same "cheddar" cheese I have eaten!

The expiry date is next year.

So is this what they called vintage, crumbly texture and "with real/sharp bite"? What is "bite" anyway? When I searched for it all returned was cheese bites (the snack). Do vintage cheddar cheese normally taste like this? What kind of cheese I have to buy if I want a flavour more closer to sliced cheddar?

Q: Is "sealing in the flavor" an actual thing?

Someone mentioned searing food to "seal in the flavor". My response was that searing was a way to add a delicious crust, and nothing more or less. However, I recently noticed a frozen food mentioning their ground beef product is "flash frozen to seal in flavor".

These are really just buzz words, right? Even if you're talking about juices as opposed to "flavor", you can't seal them in, can you? When the product rests the juice will be redistributed, won't it?

Q: How do I avoid carrot slices rolling away?

When you slice carrots, the slices tend to roll away. This previous question did mention this as part of a broader issue, but didn't focus on it enough to get answers that specifically address rolling. Sharp knives and a fluid rocking/orbital motion don't really help with this; the slices will still stick to the blade, then tend to roll when they fall.

So how do you keep sliced carrots (or any other small, round, and hard things) from rolling away as you slice them?

(I know cutting them in half works, but let's say I want to avoid that: round slices look nice.)

Q: How do I convey an order for over medium eggs without runny yolks?

I'm not a chef; I'm a (new) waitress and a few days ago a customer ordered her eggs over medium, but she didn't want the yolks runny. She was very insistent on this, and said she would send them back if they were runny so I put the order in as over hard eggs because I thought the very definition of over medium is that the yolks are just a bit runny.

She was pissed and sent the over hard eggs back and told me that she didn't want over hard. So next I tried putting them in as over medium but well done and put a note "yolks not runny". She sent these back too and was absolutely livid, and complained about my terrible service to the manager.

How should I have translated her request to the kitchen?

Q: Is there a word for the flavour shared by onion, spring onion, shallot, leek, and chive?

Among the flavours of onions, spring onions, shallots, leeks, and chives there is one that they share. Is there a name for it?

Q: What to look for in a kitchen scale

I'm thinking of buying a modern, probably electronic kitchen scale, to replace my really ancient mechanical one. I'm located in Bombay, India.

I'm wondering what considerations should inform my decision. Possible points include:

- 

Should the scale be waterproof? Is that a useful feature?

- 

On a related note, what considerations should one give to being easy to clean?

- 

Apparently if the tare button is on the weighing surface, it can distort/bias the weight measurement by a few grams. It's not necessarily clear for a given item whether that will be a problem or not. It's presumably only an issue if the weighing is very fast.

- 

Should there be a platform for weighing, which is separate from the main machine? See the previous point. Also, if it's the same platform, then whatever you want to weight may block the display. Though some units, like the Soehnle Page Profi (see below) have a hold button to deal with that.

I'm currently considering Soehnle, specifically
Soehnle KSD Page Digital Kitchen Scale and 
Soehnle KSD Fiesta Digital Kitchen Scale. Though the former appears to actually be the Page Profi. "KSD Page" has no hits elsewhere.

Q: Does the fruit label get put on a bad spot, or does the bad spot develop as a result of the label?

So often when I take the little barcode sticker off the piece of fruit when I'm washing it, I discover a blemish under the sticker.  Is that because the sticker was placed so as to cover up the blemish, or because the act of putting on the sticker tends to result in some local damage to the fruit?

Q: Should I use salted or unsalted butter if the recipe doesn't specify?

When recipes call for “butter” but doesn’t specify “salted” or “unsalted”, which should I use? Does it matter?

Q: Why are bay leaves used whole and then removed rather than crushed up like other spices?

Recently when making a 5-bean-stew "kit" my son finely crushed up the bay leaves and added them to the other spices, rather than adding them whole to be removed after cooking.

When I pointed out his error, he asked me why bay leaves were different than the other spices.  

NOTE: I have read the answers to this question and they all address the risk of not removing a whole bay leaf but not why you couldn't just grind it up.)

Q: What to use instead of cling film to wrap pastry

I'm trying to stay away from single use plastics for the environment. The only kitchen thing I have not yet managed to find a substitute for is wrapping pastry in cling film to let it rest in the fridge before rolling and baking. What can I use instead that doesn't let the pastry dry out while resting? I'm interested in a substitute that's either biodegradable or ideally reusable.

Q: Steak dropped in soapy dish water

I accidentally dropped my steak in soapy dish water for a couple of seconds then rinsed it off and now I'm marinating it. Will it be safe to eat?

Q: Is the yellow skin of a raw chicken indicating that it has been dyed?

Yellow skin in raw chicken is seen is some parts of Mexico and I was wondering if that color is obtained using dyes. I've done lots of research both online and asking people who have knowledge about raising chickens but have received a lot of conflicting information.

To be clear, this is the kind of yellow I'm referring to:

So far, I have found the following things, which some contradict each other:

- 

The yellow skin is caused by eating marigolds.

- 

The yellow skin is caused by dipping the chicken in hot water and removing quickly.

- 

The skin is dyed yellow due to cultural reasons.

- 

The skin is dyed yellow to help with gutting the chicken.

- 

The skin is dyed yellow to give it a more tasty look.

- 

The yellow skin is caused by eating grass.

- 

The yellow skin is caused by eating special bird feed to puff up the chicken.

- 

The yellow skin is caused by eating carotenoids.

Does anyone have more information about what really is causing this intense yellow? I'd appreciate a paper, research or official information so I can use this to stop the spread of misinformation among my local community.

Q: How do I get better at tasting?

I think this question might be borderline off-topic. I am open to suggestions for making it fit the SA format better

Many drinks (coffee, whisk(e)y, wine) are more enjoyable once one can discern the different flavours in those drinks. I.e., once one moves beyond 'tastes like wine' to 'tastes like blueberries and honey'. The same is true for some foods (chocolate comes to mind, with descriptions similar to those used for wines. Also olive oil.). On top of that, it is a fun (and, for cooks, useful) skill to be able to taste a dish and mentally separate out the different ingredients that went into it.

Some people (so-called supertasters) are predisposed to have a sharp sense of taste. Assuming I am not a supertaster, how can I improve my tasting skills?

Q: Steaming while boiling food

Can you use the steam from boiling one thing to cook something else?
E.g. Boiling potatoes and steam broccoli in the same pot at the same time.
Thank you!

Q: Non-plastic cutting board that can be cleaned in a dishwasher

We currently have the following dilemma:

- My wife does not want us to use plastic cutting boards because of the potential negative health effects of ingesting microplastics.

- I really really do not want to wash cutting boards by hand. Yes, I'm aware that there is no alternative for sharp metal knifes and non-stick coated pans, but I don't want to add another item to that list of annoying exceptions.

We tried standard wooden cutting boards, but they tend to bulge and crack after a few rounds in the dishwasher.

Is there some alternative cutting board material that we could use which satisfies both requirements as stated above? Are there maybe special types of wood that are more "dishwasher compatible"?

Q: Potato for a purpose

I noticed that my super market sells packaged potatoes for different purposes, for example they sell:

- potatoes for a salad

- potatoes for baking

- potatoes for frying etc..

They all look pretty similar to me. Are these labels just for marketing, or is there an actual difference?

I usually just go for whatever is cheapest at the time. I wonder if I'm doing something wrong if, for example, I buy potatoes for a salad and use them to make fries.

Q: Oven management in restaurants

Background: I'm an ERP consultant and one of my customers is a metal works factory in which they have an oven. This is an expensive piece of hardware so they have only one oven. It is important to schedule the jobs that use the oven in order to use it as efficiently as possible.

And now to the question: after cooking my lunch of baked fish, I wonder how restaurants manage their oven/s. Do they have only one oven, using it for all dishes, and filling and emptying at 15 minute intervals (or similar)? Do they have several ovens and somehow manage which dishes (for which diners) are in which ovens, and at what time the dishes entered the oven?

A curious mind wonders.

Q: What is the most humane way to kill crayfish at home?

Signal crayfish are an invasive species in the UK.  They are also really tasty and catching them can be a fun picnic activity for adults and children.  A recent study has found that they, along with all decapod crustaceans, appear to be sentient and should be protected from unnecessary suffering:

There is also substantial evidence of sentience in astacid lobsters/crayfish (infraorder Astacidea). We have either high or very high confidence that these animals satisfy criteria 1, 2 and 4.

They have some recommendations, that appear aimed at professional catering establishments:

Slaughter (decapods). We recommend that the following slaughter methods are banned in all cases in which a more humane slaughter method is available, unless preceded by effective electrical stunning: boiling alive, slowly raising the temperature of water, tailing (separation of the abdomen from the thorax, or separation of the head from the thorax), any other form of live dismemberment, and freshwater immersion (osmotic shock). On current evidence, the most reasonable slaughter methods are double spiking (crabs), whole-body splitting (lobsters), and electrocution using a specialist device on a setting that is designed and validated to kill the animal quickly after initially stunning it.

I have searched for whole-body splitting (lobsters), but only get instructions relating to cooked lobsters.  It also seems that doing so prior to boiling exposes the flesh to much more of the water as well as releasing intestinal contents, which would be expected to impair their flavor.  I am somewhat familiar with working with electricity, and I could probably rig up something to expose them to mains AC, but it sounds tremendously dangerous to attempt.  For reference the ones we tend to get are in the range 2 - 4 inches long.

What is the best way to kill and cook signal crayfish in a way that is consistent with humane animal welfare?

I note this question, but it is specifically about lobster, the greater size of which would make splitting easier and also the answers recommend methods that are advised against in the recent paper such as freezing (which in a domestic freezer could well be worse than boiling).

Q: How Can Cooked Meat Still Have Protein Value?

I've been taught 2 things that seem to contradict each other:

- Cooked meat has plenty of protein

- Heating proteins denatures them and damages/changes them

If this is the case, then cooked meat must have very little usable protein, which is clearly not the case.

How does protein in a fully cooked food, e.g. chicken/pork/eggs survive the cooking process in a usable form?

Note I'm not asking about burnt meat, browning or flavour reactions, or rare meat e.g. a medium/rare cooked steak.

Q: How to dispose large amount of wet sugar?

I semi- regularly make my own dried, aged meat. As the first step, I keep it for 24-48 hours in sugar. Sugar sucks water out beautifully and when I'm done with it, it's dripping wet.

So I have 10kg of dripping wet sugar that cannot go into compost bin (meat byproduct, not allowed by law where I live), and cannot be put in the general trash bin (trash should be dry). How can I get rid of it, without using large amount of water and risking pipe clogging? Environmentally friendly ways preferred.

Q: What can I do to help my avocados ripen?

I bought some avocados recently, and one of them was rock hard when I tried to cut it.  I left it out for a couple days hoping it would ripen, but it didn't help.

What can I do to help my avocados ripen?

Q: Sniffing out a rotten egg from the dozen

Is it possible to tell if an egg has gone off? 

I am not referring to those eggs that have been especially brined to look like they've been sitting around for decades, but to fresh eggs you want to use and not feel like being punched in the face with a sweatier-than-thou sock.

Is there a trick to detect if an egg is rotten before opening up the shell?

Q: When, if ever, are dried herbs preferable to fresh herbs?

Sometimes I see a recipe call for dried herbs. If I have access to fresh herbs, should I go for fresh herbs instead? Is there any benefit in using dried herbs with some recipes?

Q: When baking, is it better to use a gas or electric oven?

I'm looking for an oven and wanted to know if there is any difference between a gas or electric oven when it comes to baking things like cakes, biscuits and scones?

Q: What's wrong with using spin dryer to dry lettuce?

I love lettuce salad. I eat it very often. I bought a spin dryer, which I find very handy and I use it all the time.

But recently I heard Gordon Ramsay saying that you should never use a spin dryer, that it will destroy the lettuce.

Is that true? How is it destroying the lettuce. I don't see any difference between spin-dryed and un-spun lettuce.

Q: Substituting garlic powder for garlic salt?

I love using garlic powder but I also see recipes call for garlic salt. I thought that you could just add garlic powder instead of garlic salt (which of course is sold separately!) and then just add some actual salt if necessary. What is the difference in doing this as opposed to using store-bought garlic salt?

Thanks!

Q: How can I grate soft cheeses?

Sometimes I need to shred a block of a soft cheese such as mozzarella, or cheddar. When I use my grater, the cheese starts to get kind of chunky as I'm grating it. I end up wasting a lot of cheese when I try to grate it.

It never happens when I grate harder cheeses like peccorino. 

Is there a way to grate softer cheeses without ending up with big pieces of wasted chunks? Is there a particular grater that works better for softer cheeses? 

I currently use a mandolin grater, and not a box grater.

Q: What is a substitute for red or white wine in a recipe?

If someone cannot or will not use wine for cooking, what would be a good substitute? 

Question applies to both red and white wine.

Q: Techniques to get a nice golden-brown crust on bread

How do I make sure the crust of a baguette, etc. turns out a nice golden-brown when baking?

Q: How do you properly clean a cutting board and knife to prevent cross contamination?

I have one very nice cutting board that I like to use with my chef's knife.  Because I only use this single cutting board and chef's knife, if I have a recipe that calls for cutting raw meat as well as vegetables, I have to take turns with the same board and knife.  However, I'm always concerned that I haven't done enough to clean them after working with the meat before moving on the vegetables.

What do I need to do to properly clean the cutting board and knife to make sure that I avoid cross contaminating my tools?

Q: Cooking an egg without oil or butter

I like scrambled and fried eggs but the butter or oil probably add unnecessary calories. How can I fry an egg with no butter?  I tried in a Teflon pan but it was a mess.

Q: Why is my cheese sauce gritty?

Sometimes when making a very simple cheese sauce (butter, flour, milk, cheese [cheddar, usually]), the final sauce has a sort of gritty or slightly pebbly texture (rather than smooth) - it seems like maybe the cheese hasn't totally melted, even if I continue to heat the sauce.

Why does this happen? How can I avoid it?

Q: When boiling potatoes, should I put them in with the cold water or in to the hot?

I've heard both. What's the correct way to boil a potato? Why?

Q: What is that gooey stuff from okra?

When cooking okra in a bit of water, the water becomes gooey.  What does the okra release that makes the water slimy?  Would the goo have other culinary uses (as an additive to thicken sauces or improve the texture of ice-creams)?

Q: What causes water to boil over?

What are the mechanics of water boiling over? How can you stop it from happening? Is it more likely to happen with certain ingredients? Which? How does the amount of water effect the likelihood of water boiling over? What role does burner temperature have? Will it only occur during a rolling boil?

This is brought up by this comment by MeltedPez in one of the cooking pasta questions:

  

The only other argument for using more
  water is that less water is more
  likely to cause the pot to boil over.
  Basically the starch in the pasta
  makes it easier for the water to form
  bubbles that collect and spill over
  when not paying attention. I've found
  that with a very low pasta to water
  ratio can end in a messy kitchen. 

This seems very counter intuitive to me initially, as I feel less water should make it harder to boil over the edges.

Q: Stopping water from bubbling over when cooking rice

Every time I cook brown rice (in a traditional pot, or in my new rice cooker), large bubbles form and spill over the sides. How can I prevent this?

I found this question, but wasn't able to draw useful advice from the answers.

As a side note, I don't think I used too much water - the rice was cooked exactly how I like it in the rice cooker, and there was no water left over. Also, the brown rice was purchased in bulk from a health food store, and was not soaked or rinsed ahead of time.

Q: How to peel chestnuts?

The chestnuts on an open fire question reminded me: Is there a trick to peeling chestnuts easily? I always end up with bits of hairy skin stuck to the chestnuts (ick), and/or stuck under my fingernails (ouch). We usually roast them in the oven (after slitting them suitably, of course); is there a cooking method that results in easier peeling?

In case it matters, I'd want the chestnuts either for eating out of hand, or for making chestnut puree.

Q: My ginger is blueish... is it safe?

I bought ginger at the grocery store last week and kept it, unpeeled, in the fridge. Today I sliced it open and there is a ring of a blueish colour, instead of the yellow I was expecting. The ginger still smells like I'd expect (I haven't tried tasting it).

Would this be safe for use (I was planning on putting some in a salad dressing), or should I toss it?

Q: Does Boiling Water, Instead of Warm Water, Hurt the Flavor of Tea/Hot Chocolate

I have a counter-top water kettle that I frequently use to boil water for tea, hot chocolate, and powdered drinks (e.g. chai).  I don't think anything of it when the water starts boiling and keeps on boiling for 20 to 30 seconds before the kettle automatically shuts off, then I almost immediately use the water.  Should I be worried about:

- The taste of my water changing from boiling and thus changing the taste of the drink?

- The boiling water altering the drink's compounds and thus changing its taste?

Finally, if I should be worried about these, what method should I use to heat my water and what temperature should I aim for?  Specifically, I most often make tea (mint, earl grey, etc.) and chai lattes (from a powdered mix).

Q: Will using a knife sharpener reduce the lifetime of my knife?

In the long run, is it better to regularly use a knife honer instead of a knife sharpener once in a while to keep the edge sharp?

Q: How long should I cook pasta sauce?

I recently made pasta sauce, and every couple of minutes decided to add something more... More tomatoes, more pepper, more garlic...

After that I let it sit on a small flame for a bit more.

As a result, the sauce set in the pot for a fairly long time (45 min at least).  

I asked my roommate if it's ok to leave it this long, and he said that the longer I leave it, the better it will come out.

Is this true? Is patience a key ingredient to a perfect sauce?

(P.S, it really did come out great...)

Q: What is the ideal hydration for bread dough?

I made a bread that called for 1kg of flour and 700ml of water. That is a 70% hydration.

The problem was that the dough became absolutely soaked, so in the end I added more than 500g more flour. Which meant that my salt ratio was off...

The resulting bread was not too bad, but it wasn't great neither.

What is the 'proper' flour to water ratio? I've made bread with 55% water and that was OK. I know this depends on the flour, but some kind of rule of thumb must exist.

Edit I've made the same bread again. This time with 60% hydration as I'm using all purpose flour (11% proteins) and I don't have a mechanic mixer. It turned out alright, but a little bit low. I guess bread flour is really needed here.

Q: How can I maximize ginger extraction?

I want to make ginger drinks (bourbon, hot tea, ginger ale). In all cases, I want to create a ginger syrup that I can then add to bourbon, hot water, soda water to get my desired drink. I have tried the following methods:

- Slice ginger thinly, put in boiling water for 1 hour

- Chop ginger very finely, bring water to boil, cover, steep one hour

- Chop ginger very finely, bring water to simmer for one hour

- Puree ginger and small amount of water in vita mix

In all cases, I've found that I need to remove the leftover ginger, as it would just settle out of a drink. I've tried it with varying amounts of sugar (from none to 1:2 sugar:water). What I'm left with is a pretty good product, but the ginger has a lot of flavor left in it. In fact, I can use it again with the same process and still get a good result. 

I would like to get a very strong product with minimal life left in the ginger, so that I can minimize the amount of ginger I use. I'd also like the syrup / extract to be as strong as possible to minimize the amount I add to my drink. To top it off, I would prefer the process not be to laborious or time consuming. 

How can I maximize the extraction of ginger flavor in to a liquid?

Q: Why do drinks drunk from a glass instead of a bottle taste differently?

Cola drunken out of a glass instead to a bottle/can taste differently to me; it is much better. Is this due to more aroma smelled by your nose when drinking out of open glass changing the kind of perception? That is the only explanation I can think of. Does anyone know some detailed medical links on this topic?

Q: How can I stop fish from sticking to a stainless steel pan?

I think Anne Burrell lied to me. She said fish will always stick to a stainless pan. This is true. No matter how well I lubricate my pan, my fish will always adhere like cement. She also said that the pan will release the fish "when it's ready." Maybe meaning it will eventually become unstuck when the fish is done cooking? Well, I've tried that, and it never works. No matter how long I wait, it never becomes unstuck. Most recently I gave it as much time as I could. When I finally chiseled it off the pan, tearing it apart in the process, I saw that it was starting to burn on that side. I've started going back to non-stick until I get this figured out.

Are there any tips? Am I heating the pan wrong? Does it help to slide the fish around a bit after putting it in the pan?

Q: Difference between soup and stew

What are the technical differences between a soup and a stew.

Specifically, I've always had some confusion on the differentation of stew and soup. For the most part, you can tell the difference by visual cues but sometimes some soup or stew looks ambigously in between and i can't tell the difference.  For example, wikipedia shows a picture of this as soup:

Yet it looks more like a stew to me. And then it shows this as a stew:

Yet that looks like a soup to me. So my main question is: What are the technical differences that determine whether it is a soup or a stew.

Q: Why should I let bread cool before slicing and eating?

Many recipes for bread and such suggest that bread should be fully cooled (like 2 hours or so) before eating.  It's sooooo tasty right out of the oven - why wait?  Does something important happen in the cooling time that's worth waiting for?

Q: Is it worth tearing lettuce for salad?

I have read that cut lettuce is more likely to brown on the edges than torn lettuce. The stated reasoning is that the lettuce leaves will tear between cell boundaries whereas if they are cut the cells are ruptured.

When preparing a largish salad tearing the leaves can take a lot more time than slicing.

How much of a difference does tearing actually make? Is it worth taking the time?

Are there some types of salads or dressings that will exacerbate the browning of cut leaves and the leaves should be torn instead?

Q: What's this "pucker" style hole on my cheese grater for?

Ok, this picture has two sort of weird looking holes, but the one I'm asking about is on the left side of the picture - the metal sort-of puckers up, like it's been punched through from the back side.

I've tried this kind of grater to zest things before, with no success, and it clearly mauls cheeses... I can't figure out what it's for!

Q: Is it safe to eat green onion slime?

I just harvested some scallions from the garden, where it's getting bit chilly (late November in Seattle).

After chopping them, I realized that their insides were covered in a gelatinous, slippery, viscous goo!

What is it? Is it safe to eat?

Q: Does wax on citrus fruit make the zest unsafe to eat or compromise its flavor?

A number of (chiefly British) recipes specify unwaxed lemons for zesting. Unwaxed citrus fruit are not widely available here in Sweden, so I have to make do by attempting to remove the wax before zesting. Recently I have had doubts regarding the extent to which I actually succeed in doing so, and now I wonder whether it is even worth the trouble.

Citrus fruit have a natural wax coating that is washed off along with orchard grime at the packing house. A new protective coating is applied before packing, and it is this that I am concerned about.

I have two concerns. First there is a food safety issue. Reading the FDA and EU food additive regulations, I see that some substances are permitted for citrus and fruit such as apples and pears where the peel is normally eaten. Other substances are only to be used on citrus or other fruit where the peel is not normally ingested. On the face of it this seems to suggest that the consumption of citrus peel has not been taken into account. I understand that this may not be the case, but since neither regulatory body clarify the issue (at least not in the linked documents), I feel my concern is warranted.

My second concern is regarding whether the taste of the peel is compromised by the coating. This is a tricky question for me to answer since I have no access to untreated citrus. There is the additional difficulty that there are so many substances permitted, and the supermarkets here give no indication of what is used. Presumably some types of coating taste better and others worse. I include this part of question with the faint hope that there may be someone reading who is not subject to the same limitations.

Is it worth bothering even trying to wash the wax of citrus?

Q: How deeply will the flavors in a brine penetrate chicken?

I'm not asking about salt or "juiciness". I think there is enough evidence here and elsewhere to answer that question with "pretty deep, or all the way to the bone". My question concerns spices and other flavorings in the brine. I want to know not only how far the flavors can go, but also what qualities in specific flavorings help those flavorings penetrate more deeply, and why?

There is yet another question within my answer. I hope that someone can shed more light on the subject. I'll happily accept an answer that clarifies things, even if it debunks my hypothesis as to "why".

Q: What's the best approach to get runny-yolk sunny side up fried eggs?

I like my eggs Sunny-side up, and ideally, with runny yolk but fully firmed up whites (including a millimeter-thin film of cooked yolk/whites on top of the yolk - not sure if there's a technical term for that).

This seems like an incredibly difficult balance - either the whole yolk starts to harden (very quickly - enough to get distracted for 15 seconds), or the whites are still runny and the yolk top is not cooked.

What's the best approach?

I tried covering my frying pan with a cover (helped a bit) and cooking over lower gas for a bit longer (didn't help much).

Q: How to clean an octopus - and is it worth it

I've bought an octopus from my fish monger, but, when I asked if he could clean it, he openly admitted he's never done octopus before and doesn't know how. Well, neither do I but I've taken it on myself. This is clearly a poor decision, I don't even like gutting fish!

I'm reading up on this, and a certain website says the following

  

Octopus must also be cleaned, so you may want to ask your fish monger to do it if you're uncomfortable doing so yourself. Hold the head under running water to simply remove and discard the ink sac, stomach, and eyes. Then use a sharp knife to cut out the beak, which is found at the bottom of the head

I'm very lost with this statement; it seems like the article suggests by holding the head under water, everything will just fall away (doubtful otherwise it would have a rubbish time being a sea creature!). Has it glossed over the 'how' because it's very difficult?

More reading on other sites suggests that the head is very gelatinous and the vast majority of meat/flavor is  from the arms.

So, based upon my own research (if it is correct), is it worth cleaning an octopus (and if so, can some one explain how) or would I be better off just chopping the head off (and removing the beak) and discarding them, keeping just the legs/arms?

Q: How can I improve my fried rice?

I'm an amateur cook with almost no experience (never taught by my parents, first time cooking on my own was first few days living on my own), so I'm studying very hard because I want to be a great cook for the people living with me.

I'm trying to nail down the teppanyaki fried rice made at some very popular restaurants that I've visited several years back.

It seems that I'm definitely missing something with the technique. The meat and veggies I have no problem with. I cut up the chicken or beef into strips and cook it in the pan with a moderate amount of teppanyaki sauce, and it turns out great.

For the rice, what I do is cook jasmine rice (in a stock made with chicken bouillon) a day or two ahead and keep it in the fridge. I cook on a large round stainless steel pan (I'm not experienced enough in cooking to be properly taking care of cast iron cookware) at medium-to-high heat (7-8 on my stove), and begin by adding the rice, vegetable oil, and some peas and onion. I mix these up and then add a decent amount of soy sauce until it's a decent color. I scramble the egg separately then add it in when it is mostly done, mixing it in with the rice and veggies. I then add the cooked meat and veggies last.

Two main problems:

- The rice seems to stick together too much. It appears to be rather sticky in the fridge, but separates rather easily. After frying though, I have this big hunk of rice that sticks together with some other ingredients dotted within.

- The egg flavor seems to get all over the rice. Even when I scramble the egg, the "chunk" tend to become smaller than I anticipate once I add this to the rice, and the flavor is much too strong compared to the rice or veggies.

What do I need to change to get this closer to restaraunt quality? I'm quite new to cooking, so I really don't know what to look out for or what to change.

Please note that I'm trying to cut down on sugar and sodium, so I don't want to add excess salt or soy sauce.

Q: How can I cool tea quickly?

Imagine you're making someone a tea, but for whatever reason they have to leave soon. How can I cool the tea so that they don't have to choose between leaving it unfinished or burning their mouth? Ideally the method should not only be fast, but also let me reliably reach about the same temperature every time.

I've thought of the following:

Add additional milk - cools tea, but affects taste.

Heat the water less - won't make tea as hot, but might affect how well the tea infuses.

Add cool water to boiled water - would cool down a fully-infused tea, but hard to control resulting temperature.

Put it in the fridge for 30 seconds or so - would cool tea, but seems like a bad idea.

Q: How prevalent was foodborne botulism before stricter food safety guidelines?

Nowadays, foodborne botulism seems to be quite rare, even from potentially high-risk things like home canned goods. (The CDC Botulism Surveillance reports indicate on the scale of tens of confirmed cases per year in the US.)

But I can only assume that the strict guidelines we have today were motivated by a significantly larger issue in the past. What's the history here? When did those guidelines come about, and how big a deal was botulism before then?

This isn't a pure historical curiosity question, of course. Sometimes the low prevalence of botulism is used as evidence of low risk and thus low importance of following food safety rules, but it's unclear what the actual level of risk would be without most people doing things "right" already.

A: Microwave doors don't have an airtight seal; the window between the electronics and the cooking compartment is also not airtight, and the electronics are cooled by a fan. It would be surprising if some cooking smells didn't escape. In practice, every microwave I've ever had allows me to smell the cooking, from the very cheapest to some rather fancy ones with grill and convection. 

This means that being able to smell the food cooking says nothing about the safety of the microwave, and you have no need to worry (unless there are other indications such as damage)

A: It's a pastry blender, less commonly also called a pastry cutter or dough blender. The primary use is cutting (mixing) solid fat into flour to make pastry dough.

Another common variety has stiff wires instead of the metal strips yours has. 

That kind also works fine for pastry dough, but likely won't work as well for your alternative use on clumpy powders; it'll tend to flex out of the way a bit, especially if the clumps are hard.

A: You have been lied to. I wouldn't call those things at the top of the page cheese, let alone cheddar. I'm not trying to be dismissive of your situation or culture, merely dismaying that British heritage has been misappropriated so poorly.

You are not the first person I've met who's had a strong first reaction to real cheese.

Kraft slices might technically be cheese but they're a hyper-processed abstraction of what traditional cheddar cheese really is. Like a cheap burger to a well matured steak, or a Lada Riva to a Porsche 911, the two cheeses are made from similar stuff, but they clearly aren't the same.

Real cheddar has been allowed to mature. It's sharp and strong and sour and a little crumbly. It is available in a wide selection of strengths, traditionally defined by the length of time it sits maturing (up to 24, even 36 months). It sounds like you've gone straight to most mature end of the scale!

Hard cheeses sweat and dry out and crystallise and that could explain the spots you're seeing:

- Paler spots are more likely to be salt or protein crystals, but

- Coloured spots, and fur could easily be mould and fungus.

If in doubt, just cut it off. A hard cheese is quite a resilient substance so unlike soft cheeses and yoghurts, you don't have to chuck them at the first sign of contamination. The sweating also means you need to look after your cheese properly. A paper layer before an air barrier is usually a good idea to wick away any surface seepage.

But cheese is amazing. I'd really, strongly suggest you stick with it though. Cheeses have amazing variety and have something for everybody (except the lactose intolerant, I guess). Visit a cheese shop, hand them a bunch of money and ask them to show you what you've been missing out on. You  think I'm enthusiastic about cheese? You haven't seen anything yet!

Oh and if you've got a big block of mature cheese you can't bear to eat raw, try grating it and having it grilled (toasted sandwich, on pizza, etc). It loses a lot of its harshness but it's still delicious.

Terms like "bite" and "tang" are probably a regional variant on the strength scale I've been using: mild, medium, mature, extra mature and vintage. In short, it gives people a better idea of what they're buying.

A: Your chicken was a rooster and what you found are his testicles. If you are not queasy, this forum entry gives you a picture and some more anatomical details.

While animal testicles are typically edible and often a speciality/delicacy, many westerners are not necessarily familiar with them, especially in animals as comparatively small as roosters. Asian (e.g. Chinese) cuisine knows various dishes based on chicken testicles, and there‘s also a Hungarian dish that’s basically a stew/goulash. 

On the other hand, they have confused unwitting consumers as readily reported by the kind of media that favors sensationalism.

So don’t worry, you can simply eat them, if you want. Or get inspired by Heston Blumenthal’s Regency recipe for his Fairytale Feast.

A: Generally, you should use unsalted butter. You can always add salt to your unsalted butter, but you can't take it out if you want it less salty!

If it's just being melted on some vegetables, then salted butter is probably fine. However, different brands of salted butter have different amounts of salt added, which makes it difficult to know how much total salt is going into your food. This is more problematic in baking. It's possible to easily oversalt or undersalt just by using a different brand — leading to unpredictable results. By using unsalted butter, the only salt remaining in the recipe is what you have added, and you have more careful control over the outcome.

If you need to substitute one for another, you can estimate how much salt is in salted butter and adjust your recipe accordingly.

If you are not sure whether a particular recipe calls for salted or unsalted, look for clues.

- Is there additional salt in the recipe? (If not, it may expect some salt from the butter. If so, it may expect unsalted butter!)

- How old is the recipe? (Newer recipes tend to assume unsalted butter. Older recipes tend to assume salted butter.)

- Where was the recipe written? Different cultures assume different butters (and salt levels may vary between countries for salted butter!); I will not give an exhaustive list here, mostly because I don't know, but it's worth researching.

If you have the time, interest, and money, you can try making the recipe twice (once with salted, once with unsalted butter) and see which tastes better. This is a bigger investment, though, so only worth doing if you really want to get the recipe as good as possible.

A: Structural proteins in foods, i.e. albumin in eggs, myosin in muscle meats, gluten in wheat, are formed by amino acids in complex structures. Proteins are folded and clumped chains of peptides, and peptides are chains of amino acids. Your body uses stomach acid and proteases (enzymes) to break down proteins in digestion, but this requires time and energy (stomach churning, body heat).

The amino acids are what your body requires. They're used to build more complex proteins. Cooking gives a head start in un-clumping/unfolding proteins, and in some conditions into peptides and amino acids, that are easier for your body to digest making them more 'bioavailable'.

Some of these amino acids can be produced by your body using nitrogen compounds from breaking down other amino acids and nutrients. The ones your body can't produce on its own have to be obtained in the proteins you eat. These are called 'essential amino acids'.

Different protein sources have different amino acid compositions, giving them different 'protein values' in how complete the range of essential amino acids are available; i.e. collagen/gelatin is a common structural protein that provides great texture for sensory applications, but the protein value is 0 for regulatory labelling requirements in some countries since it is missing an essential amino acid.

A: There are several terms which you can use, depending on the context of writing (or speaking). 

A very simple one is "the starch". It is mostly used in the context of meal planning, such as "What starch are we going to serve tonight" or "When planning a vegetarian meal, it is best to first decide on the starch and then select sides that complement it". 

"Grains" or, mostly interchangeably, "cereals" is what academic specialists for nutrition and diets use in their jargon. If you read a textbook on nutrition, that's where you will find breads, etc. There, the context makes it clear that the word doesn't mean simply uncooked kernels. The nonacademic literature on dieting is more likely to use "carbs" - see Chris H's answer for more detail on that usage. 

In legal language, for example rules and regulations about food product labelling, or import and export regulations, you will frequently find phrases like "grain products". 

Since none of these terms is unambiguous, outside of these genres of writing you will probably have to go for something more descriptive, for example "foods made from grains" in a colloquial conversation.

A: As a straight answer to "why" it's the quantity of mustard oil in any given mustard type.

There are many types of mustard, but the two you may find the most confusing visually are English & American.

Though both are a fairly bright yellow in colour, that's about as far as the similarity goes.

Mustard seeds themselves come in many different 'heats' - the mildest generally being pale yellow, almost white & the strongest are dark brown.

Additionally, mixing mustard with vinegar tempers the heat & lengthens the shelf-life.

Mixing instead with pure water increases the punch, but the flavours will dissipate over a much shorter period.

American mustard is one of the mildest available. It starts with a mild seed, pale yellow/white in colour, but the colour is then boosted by using turmeric. The mixture is then diluted with vinegar.

This is your 'standard' mild American mustard, found in many places, including McDonald's. You can slather it in huge quantities on a hot dog with no ill-effects.

Almost at the other end of the scale [Chinese mustard can be even hotter] is English. Made with a mixture of yellow & brown mustard seed, then mixed with water not vinegar, this will take the roof of your nose out if used in injudicious quantities. It can quite literally make your eyes water & your nose run - though if you did it by accident, take solace in the fact that the hit is very short-lived, not like eating a blindingly hot chilli pepper.

The full impact & flavour of English mustard is quite short-lived even in the jar, once made up from powdered mustard. Even ready-made, store-bought has quite a short shelf-life for a condiment.  Made at home & mixed with water it will lose its punch in just a few days, so the trick is to buy powder & mix it just 15 minutes before you eat it, for the full experience.

If you're ever uncertain visually which you are about to add - taste it first.

Personally I love English mustard on hot dogs! With ketchup too [one of the only things I will ever put ketchup on]. The balance between the sweet, vinegary ketchup & the hard hit of the mustard is really quite the feast. Bring on the junk food!

There is an in-depth article on the various types at Serious Eats - Mustard Manual: Your Guide to Mustard Varieties

A: It is less useful than what you think

Frame challenge incoming...

Cling film is very light and made especially for such purposes. The environmental damage is extremely low - which limits what alternatives you can choose. Most alternatives (including those already mentioned in the other answers) will be so much more resource demanding to make, dispose or recycle for it to be worth it. Baking paper, while extremely useful - is full of silicones, so don't put it in the "paper" bin... and it is more resource demanding to make. Teflon, cloth, etc - same deal!

Aluminium foil, for instance. 75% of all Aluminium refined and made is still in use. Because of the extremely friendly "recyclability" of aluminium, it is a very good material. Just not for aluminium foil, it is rarely recycled. People just throw it in the trash. We destroy a valuable resource. 

Cling film, on the other hand is  dirt cheap to make and can safely be incinerated. If you worry about polluting the sea - I'd see if there are any alternatives to landfilling your waste in your community. As for carbon emissions - Walk once to the store instead of driving, and you'll be in the green even if you consider a life time supply of cling film. 

Note: Some cling films are made with PVC, I'd consider switching to the less clingy, but better overall alternative LDPE. PVC contains chlorides and while the environmental impact is still low, if you go for LDPE or similar it goes to negligible. Check the box it came in to find which you have

A: Not to be dismissive, but this just sounds like a difficult guest to me. I think you'll find that this happens from time to time and it can be tough to know exactly what they're asking for.

There are two major possibilities here:

- She was looking for the standard definition of "over medium", but has gotten under-done eggs before and thought she was clarifying; instead her additional information ("not runny") just confused things.

- She's got some non-standard definition of "over medium", in which case she's going to find it difficult to locate any kitchen that can deliver. This is a bit like defining a "medium-rare" steak as one without any pink in it, then getting mad when you receive a well-done steak.

From a server's perspective, it sounds like you tried a couple ways to deliver what she asked for. Her not being satisfied with that could be the result of the kitchen not quite meeting your request, her not really knowing what she's asking for, or other factors entirely. Perhaps you addressed her in a way she found disrespectful or annoying, and used her eggs as a proxy to complain.

(A side note from my experience: somebody insistently telling you up-front that they'll send back their food is a huge red flag. It almost always means they're looking for an excuse to cause a fuss.)

Frankly, it's not unusual for someone having a bad day to take it out on service staff over something minor. It's an occupational hazard. When this happens, be polite and clear with your manager about what happened and explain the situation as best you can.

A: A few years ago I had the rare chance to take a look behind the scenes of the largest manufacturer of fruit sorting, labeling and packaging equipment in the Pacific Northwest and it was impressive to see how much effort and planning goes into designing everything in a way that damage to fruit is avoided at all costs. We talked about how the business evolved and what the biggest challenges are. 

And yes, the stickers are a crucial part. Developing a glue that is food-safe, will stick well and come off without damaging the fruit is a challenge and different manufacturers have solved it more or less well. If you observe carefully, you will notice that the stickers will behave differently.

There are two main ways how stickers can lead to damage:

- Too much local pressure when applying the stickers and 

- A glue that is too sticky and tears the fruit when the sticker is pulled off.

The former will result in a soft spot or other blemish, the latter is visibly fresh. Soft-skinned fruit like peaches are much more prone to damage and a real challenge compared to e.g. apples. The damage is not unavoidable, a lot depends on the settings of the equipment and a good operating personnel.

But I can assure you that no fruit packaging plant will “cover up” blemishes with a sticker - simply because they label way too many pieces per hour. Blemished fruit will be sorted out before packaging, damaged fruit in packs will typically mean the whole package is rejected by wholesalers - because they won’t travel and store well. 

Knowing all this, one of my pet peeves is supermarket workers that think refilling displays is best done by upending boxes of apples, but that’s not part of your question.

A: tl;dr - they never turn off.

I've never worked in a kitchen with only one oven. I'm sure they exist, but I've never been in one. That said, contrary to moscafj's answer, I've certainly used ovens heavily during service.

These examples come from a kitchen that had two combi Rational ovens (i.e., an oven and steamer in one). Typically one was kept on steam, switching as needed, and the other on roast (for service). To give you a rough idea of what a daily rotation of oven usage was like:

Breakfast (starting at 5:00 AM): one on steam, one held at 350 F. The roaster is primarily used to cook sheet pans of bacon/sausage/home fries which are then transferred to hot holding, either on the line or in a hotbox for the buffet (the steam is used for hot-holding for the line/buffet backup). During this time, other miscellaneous prep could also be cooked in the same oven (assuming 350 F is an appropriate temperature). Par-grilled chicken breast would frequently be roasted off and cooled during this time (either to be re-heated later, or further processed into chicken salad or the like).

Lunch (starting at 11:00 AM): turned up to 450 F and held. Lunch service was typically too hectic to get any sort of significant prep done, so it would be used primarily for service (personal pizzas, heating crab cakes, the odd person ordering a steak or roast chicken off the dinner menu, parbaked rolls for the table, etc). The cold line might be able to sneak a tray or two of croutons in the oven at this time, but it wouldn't be a sure thing. The "spare" oven/steamer might be switched over to a slow-roasted prep item - say, roasted garlic or braised meat - depending on prep/service needs.

Mid afternoon/bar service: (2:30 PM - 5:00 PM): still held at 450 F, although with the lull in orders, you could switch one up if you really needed to (most dinner items would be prepped at 450 anyway). This time was largely used as a mad dash for the dinner crew to set up and get as much prep done as possible. Usage at this time is highly dependent on hot line prep/service needs.

Dinner (5:00 PM - 11:00 PM): held at 500 F and kept there. God help you if you changed an oven without explicit permission from the line. Primary usage is for service - pan roasted fish/chicken, heating/reheating various apps, finishing grilled steaks, etc. The oven is constantly being opened and closed as orders come in and out, but never cooled.

Overnight (11:00 PM - 2:30 AM): a deep self-cleaning cycle is run on the service oven. The "spare"/steamer is switched over to roast for service orders and miscellaneous prep.

Late night (2:30 AM - 5:00 AM) - hot food isn't served. A "quick" clean cycle is run on the steamer/overnight oven, and the main service oven is set up for breakfast.

From the comments:

How do the staff know which item in the oven belongs to which order?

The answer is a combination of "just remember", "it doesn't matter", and whatever personal system the cook has to keep track of things. To explain: the system I used was essentially "ascending temperatures". I would use this system for the oven, the grill/range, and resting tray: from left to right/bottom to top, rare -> well done. As a random example: an order comes in for a mid-rare tenderloin and medium well sirloin, followed by a second order for a mid-well tenderloin and medium seared salmon. I'd put a tenderloin on the center left section of the grill (mid rare), a tenderloin and a sirloin on the center right (both mid well), and start heating a sizzle platter in the center burner of the range.

At this point I can effectively forget about the ticket for the time being - all of the order information that I need to know at moment is embedded in the location of the food.

Once the steaks were sufficiently marked to count as "grilled", I'd move the center-left tenderloin to the bottom rack in the oven (rares wouldn't make it into the oven, so the racks went mid-rare / medium / mid-well / well done), the two center right steaks to the second from the top rack. Ditto the salmon, once the sizzle platter was hot, I'd add the fish and move it to the second rack.

Now it's a question of monitoring what's in the oven/waiting for my internal timer to go off. Once the [item] in the oven reaches the temperature the it's position tells me it should be, I move it to the resting tray (which is just a sheet pan with a rack on it), again in the appropriate [rare | mr | med | mw | well] position. At this point I can check the tickets to see if anything's ready to sell from my station, if so, I call to the expediter "ready to sell [table number]". The expediter will either tell me to hold off (either the table's not ready or the server isn't ready or we're still waiting on food from other stations) or sell it.

If we're holding, I forget about it and move on. If a solo MR tenderloin walks in, I can immediately sell the one I have on the resting tray to clear that order and start working a new one for the holding table. If we're selling, I move the relevant proteins from the resting tray to the salamander (still following the left->right placement rule) to bring them back up to an appropriate plating temp and start laying out plates (any guesses as to how I'm going to arrange the plates?)

The "just remember" part comes into play with special orders or just juggling random ticket information in my head so I don't have to go back and refer to the hanging ticket - but 95% of the information I need at give time is in front of my face and it usually doesn't matter which table this particular item is going to - a medium steak is a medium steak is a medium steak, all I need to know if how many I have working, how long they have left, and what's ready to sell.

A: My response to this kind of question is always just ask, and if you absolutely can't, err on the side of caution.

I'm assuming here that you're talking about a pretty thorough heating and brushing. If you're leaving a bunch of meat stuff on the grill, that someone could conceivably taste, that's not good - you certainly shouldn't be risking food that actually has meat in it. But if it's essentially clean, with pretty much everything burned and scraped off, you're in a much better state.

I believe most of the vegetarians I know would be okay with that general plan. They're pretty pragmatic about their diets, they they know that some people eat meat and aren't going to have two grills, and they'll regard it as pretty similar to you using a pan that previously was used for meat but has since been washed. I would be sure I was doing everything that I could, thorough heating and brushing, separate (or washed) utensils, and so on, but I wouldn't be overly worried at that point.

But there are also people who keep to much stricter diets for all kinds of reasons (see Journeyman Geek's answer, for example), who would not be okay with this.

The only way you can tell the difference between the two is to ask, or to know someone well enough that you don't have to ask. This is really a pretty general principle when it comes to potentially strongly-held beliefs: if you want to do right by someone, don't expect to be able to use generalized categories to get the answer, assume you need their answer.

A: Dish soap won't kill you. You probably eat it, in traces, with every meal.

If you can't smell it or taste it, then no real harm done.

A: What is wrong with a regular ice cube? As you state that the tea is not yet ready, you just use slightly less water and then add the ice cube, which has a fixed temperature.

I use this for large scale ice tea production. As I use 1:1 hot water : ice cubes I simply brew a double strong tea.

A: Conversationally, "oniony". Everyone will understand that, and tend to say it naturally.

In a more serious cooking context, you could also get away with "allium flavor", though likely not in everyday conversation. There are a lot of alliums, including onions, garlic, scallions, shallots, leeks, and chives, so if you refer to the whole group, you're pretty obviously referring to the overarching common flavor. For example, On Food and Cooking has subsections called "The Flavors and Sting of Raw Alliums" and "The Flavors of Cooked Alliums".

A: Before we proceed, we should note that not all dirty dishes are created equal. There are a few "groups" with different chemical and physical properties.

- Sugar

Probably the easiest of all as it will happily dissolve in water. A bit quicker in warm or hot water than in cold water (iced tea, anyone?), but not adverse to being washed off. We can probably ignore it for our further discussion.

- Starch, uncooked

Pure starch will easily dissolve in cold water, but tends to form lumps in hot water as anyone trying to thicken a soup or sauce can attest. This means all starchy dishes, from your bread bowl to the spoon in your bag of flour needs to be rinsed cold (first) or you will end up with a glue-like substance clinging to your dishes, your rag, your brush, whatever. You need to create a suspension, that is tiny particles floating in your water instead of a sticky goo.

- Proteins, unheated

Unheated, that means uncoagulated proteins, like the yolks in your breakfast egg or that cup with fat-free milk, even the cutting board of your meat are comparatively easy to dissolve in cool-to-lukewarm water - everything below their specific temperature at which they denaturize. This does not mean that they are clean after that because there are:

- Fats

This is the one group that really, really needs some solvent, aka dishwashing liquid for simple chemical reasons: Fats are hydrophobic, they do not mix with water. Your soap binds with the fat molecules forming larger molecules, that are then soluble in water. Hotter water speeds up this process, similar to sugar dissolving faster in hot water. Plus food fats that are solid at room temperature turn liquid when warmed which helps the soap to "get" the fat molecules. No need to boil your hands, though.

Now unless you serve a very restricted breakfast, your dishes will likely contain something of each group above, so you need an adjusted approach:

Those dishes that have starchy and protein-rich components may benefit from a cool rinse first. Then your dishes can go in the sink with quite warm water - hotter speeds up the "loosening" of fats and other crusts, but you need not "boil" your hands, gloved or not.

Yet we still have to consider our nasty hitchhikers:

- Bacteria and their ilk

Let's get one misconception out of the way first: Washing dishes, whether by hand or in a dishwasher, does not remove all bacteria. You can scrub and sanitize to your heart's content, your kitchen will never be truly sterile. And it doesn't have to. The human body deals well with some "intruders" on average, they can even be beneficial.

What we want to do is to reduce the total amount of bacteria present and, if possible, eliminate those that are highly pathogenic. (Don't lick that raw chicken...!)
Unfortunately, the suggestion of washing your dishes with really hot water to kill them is impractical at best - Salmonella dies at about 70C / 155 F1, similar rules apply for Listeria.

Bacteria doesn't come alone, it is on and in the food. So cleaning the dishes well and removing all residue will in fact rinse the bacteria right off and leave the very few that still might cling to a plate without food, causing many of them to die. Much more critical is the great bacterial breeding ground near your sink: Sponges and rags may contain far more pathogens than a random plate - your food is typically not contaminated to the hilt from the start. So make sure you rinse your dishes well after washing, consider air-drying or at least use a fresh towel.

1 To be precise, it's a function over time and temperature, but that doesn't make much of a difference here.

A: A broader category, including things like potatoes, would be carbs (carbohydrates).  This is a common category when considering feeding for exercise, and tends to mean starchy foods.  It's not a perfect term as "carbs" strictly includes sugars, but the carb component of a meal is the (usually fairly plain) bulk accompaniment to the tasty bits.

A: Well, frying means to cook in oil, so technically you can't. Fat also is delicious, so you'll lose something in the process besides just calories.

If you are using teflon, ceramic, or some other non-stick, don't bring the heat up too much. Scrambling your eggs with milk will make them more fluffy, and I bet less likely to stick. Use (sigh) PAM or another aerosolized cooking spray. Or just 'wipe' the pan with an oiled paper towel. It would impart minimal calories.

It's sad, but microwaving eggs will cook them without adding calories (or anything else). You can also make absolutely delicious eggs by soft-boiling them, which adds nothing at all. 

My more general advice is to learn to love a little fat and to consume a variety of fresh, unprocessed foods which taste great.  It's much healthier in the long run than just cutting away at a number.  Better to go for some walks/runs/lifts then sacrifice flavor.  And fat leads to fullness, which leads to less wasted calories on junk later in the day.

A: That oils' smoke points can be generically classified solely according to their type is a myth.

Robert Wolke, a professor emeritus of chemistry at the University of Pittsburgh and food columnist for the Washington Post, claims that the smoke point for an oil varies widely depending on origin and refinement.  While the smoke point does generally increase with respect to the degree of refinement of the oil, Wolke notes that generation of the nasty tasting free fatty acids is a function of time, i.e., the longer you cook the oil the worse it tastes.  Therefore, if you are going to be using the oil for a quick fry/sauté, it doesn't really matter what type of oil it is.  (I'm not sure if I'd use an unrefined oil for a long roast, though.)

Alton Brown, a US cooking celebrity who specializes in the science behind cookery, agrees:

  

Now many charts and tables attempt to quantify smoke points, and I'm here to tell you they're all complete hooey. The truth is, there are just too many factors going into a smoke point to make such concrete claims. I will tell you this. High heat will destroy the fruity goodness of an extra virgin olive oil or the nutty goodness of a walnut oil. But you can sauté with just about any oil, as long as you work fast.
[Emphasis is mine.]

I wouldn't recommend using an Extra Virgin Olive Oil for high heat applications, not because you're likely to get off flavors (if you work fast), but because it's a waste of money: You'll be losing the fruity notes for which you're paying a premium.  Throughout Southern Italy and Spain, though, it is very common to use olive oil for frying (even Virgin olive oil).  For example, Mario Batali (another US celebrity chef who is a widely acclaimed Italian chef) did it all the time in his old TV show.

A: One option is to cut the carrots slightly diagonally instead of perfectly square. The resulting pieces are not perfectly cylindrical, but they tend to tipping instead of rolling all over the cutting board. (Note that this method only works if the diameter of the carrot is substantially larger than the thickness of a piece.)

A: When you take the pressure cooker off the heat, it's filled with high-temperature, high-pressure steam. As it cools, that steam condenses, leaving a vacuum. Pressure cooker valves are designed to allow air to enter to fill the vacuum (to avoid damaging the pressure cooker, and to make it possible to take the lid off). So it isn't really sealed once it's not at high pressure.

A: Yes, if you have the right pot, namely one that has a steamer insert that is well above the bottom of the pot, or even stacks.

In fact, in several cuisines this is the standard way of getting several ingredients ready at once.  For example, it's common to steam couscous in the steam from the Moroccan stew cooking below, using a stacking pot called a couscousiere.

Just make sure that the food in the steamer will take less time to steam than the food below takes to boil.

A: What you're describing sounds like jallab. From Will Travel For Food:

  

Jallab is a very popular drink in the Middle East. It’s made by diluting the syrup made of grape molasses, dates and rose water with water and serving it in a tall glass with crushed ice. It’s always topped with nuts, most of the time pine nuts and golden raisins, because a jallab without nuts is not really a jallab.

There is also a recipe on the linked page.

Also, from Wikipedia:

  

Jallab (Arabic: جلاب / ALA-LC: jallāb) is a type of fruit syrup popular in the Middle East made from carob, dates, grape molasses and rose water.[1] Jallab is very popular in Jordan, Syria, Palestine and Lebanon. It is made mainly of grape molasses, grenadine syrup, and rose water, then smoked with Arabic incense. It is usually sold with crushed ice and floating pine nuts and raisins.

Jallab, the syrup used to make this drink seems to be quite easy to find on the internet. It is also sold in Middle Eastern grocery markets.

A: Oversalting is best dealt with by serious dilution. 

I'd make a large, not very meaty dish from it, with lots of vegetables, cooked for a while. Fry onions and other veg, add liquid, and stir in the cooked beef. But soaking the meat should help as well. Either soak in plain water and discard the water, or soak in something you might add to the sauce (wine, beer, diluted citrus juice... ). I'd also cut it small before soaking/cooking. Most of the salt will be on the surface but you want to expose add much as possible of the meat to the liquid. Soaking should be done in the fridge, for a few hours.

You could go for a tomato-based sauce, a curry using coconut milk, or a sticky orange and chilli sauce, so long as the ratio of beef to everything else (and beef to initial liquid) is small. The initial liquid shouldn't bring any more salt with it, which rules out most cmmercial stock preparations, and possbile home-made stock. These are just ideas, many beef in sauce dishes would adapt. I wouldn't add more meat, but many people would.

A: Use Tupperware, or a plate over a bowl. Since those items are reusable the environmental impact will be less so long as you keep using them. You can get Tupperware that is mostly glass too. Lots of places do this with their dough. All that moisture will still be in there as the dough rises or rests. As long as it's airtight it should work.

Alternatively you can put a damp tea towel over a bowl. This will allow the pastry dough to breath while maintaining moisture. Make sure the towel doesn't dry out though. If it does, your dough will too. Just add some more water to the towel when it starts to get dry.

Bakers use some variation of tupperware and damp towels all the time. Plate over a bowl won't work as well, but it should still work.

A: In general it looks like 65-75% of the total caffeine comes out in the first steeping, while 20-25% comes out in the second steeping. This was addressed in this paper which examined different types of tea. The results are summarized in this table. For more details check out this reddit thread.

A: I think the thing boils down to how much you need to get from the lettuce. If you demand the best of the best performance for your salad, you want to blot it dry with paper towels, so that the texture is best preserved and the appearance is undisturbed. For my purpose, in my kitchen, a salad spinner saves money (the paper towels), time (my time), and allows me to do something more interesting than blotting it dry, and the time saved can be used to better decorate the dishes I love better than the salad.

In essence, there is nothing wrong with any method of cooking if you enjoy the result, and it doesn't involve health problems. Spinning it dry is fine for me, and if you accept the result, there is little to hesitate using one.

Thomas Keller also told us that after vegetables release the flavors in the soup we should discard them, and replace them with fresh cooked vegetables with better colors and better flavor for better presentation. In my kitchen, I am not serving a Michelin 3-star soup to my family, and thus it is fine having those vegetables in the soup for some more fibres in our diet.

It is a matter of fine dining, it is not a matter of home kitchen. Insist if you have to, but relax if you actually can.

A: I am answering this question, but I am not going to accept this answer, at least not without further research and/or experimentation and editing this answer to reflect that. I am hoping that somebody with a greater knowledge of chemistry and the nature of brining can add to or even credibly contradict the science of what I am saying here. My conclusions are based on the evidence from one experiment. My theory as to "why" barely actually reaches the level of "hypothesis".

THE EXPERIMENT

Making the Brine

For this experiment, I wanted a very strongly flavored brine with a lot of different flavors. I filled a stock pot with water, brought it to a boil and added whole spices in a concentration four times as high as I used in a recent pho (star anise, cinnamon stick, cloves, fennel, broken open cardamon pods). I let that simmer for a few hours and set it on the porch overnight to cool.

The next morning I strained the flavored water and made a 5% salt brine (10 cups flavored water to 4 ounces kosher salt or 3 liters water to 150 grams salt) and included 4 ounces of brown sugar. I brought that to a simmer and proceeded to add just about everything flavorful I had that wouldn't clash. Finely chopped preserved lemon, a full third cup of Ras el Hanout, lots of harissa, lots of grated ginger, an entire head of crushed garlic, about a half cup of dried minced onion (I knew I'd find a use for that) and enough cayenne and red pepper flakes to make the brine about three times as hot as a good hot and sour soup. After adding all that the brine actually measured 12.5 cups so I added another ounce of salt. I'm sure that brought the brine up a little over 5%, but fine for this experiment. I simmered the whole mess for an hour, then set it outside again to cool overnight. 

Another poster had shown me pictures of a cross-section of meat that had been brined in a brine that had been colored. That photo was intended to show that the brine barely penetrated the meat. Indeed the color was only visible in the outer few millimeters of meat. That inspired me to do the same, I added two bottles of food coloring to the brine. (A funny aside - I bought food coloring for this experiment. My intention was to use a perfectly appetizing red/orange. I didn't realize that boxes of food coloring came in other than standard colors. I got home with "neon", giving me the options of purple, pink, blue and green. That's why my chicken you'll see in later pictures is fuchsia.)

Brining and Cooking and the Chicken

I used a completely defrosted, 6lb, Foster Farms Chicken. I submerged the chicken in the brine and also lifted the skin as much as I could to get the brine under the skin. I got as much brine as I could under the skin, but I took care to not pierce the meat.

  

I left the chicken submerged in the brine for 36 hours, refrigerated, flipping and pouring brine under the skin every few hours. Upon removing the chicken from the brine, I rinsed it thoroughly including under the skin, patted it dry with paper towels, and left it uncovered in the fridge for 12 hours to air-dry. I put it on my "set-it-and-forget-it" rotisserie, basting for the last 15 minutes in Mr Yoshida's. Would you believe it? It was one of the best chickens I've ever made! But that's beside the point.

RESULTS

I carved the chicken in layers. I washed the knife after every slice to be sure that I wouldn't carry flavors with the knife. Once the bird was carved, I asked a friend to join me in the tasting. We started tasting at the very inner layer and moved out. At each layer, I asked him what he was tasting but I didn't tell him what I was tasting until we were done. While it was in no way over salted, salt was evident to both of us all the way to the bone. Neither one of us were sure about sugar, it kind of seemed a little sweetened, but if it was it was just too subtle to say for sure. The outer-most layer below the skin was the furthest "in" either of us could sense heat or any other specific flavors other than the salt and possibly sugar already mentioned - with one flavor exception which I'll cover in just a moment. The skin and outermost layer were deliciously flavored, the rest of the chicken was also very good, very juicy.

As you can see in the above picture, the food coloring didn't penetrate at all. I don't think it even would have penetrated the skin if I hadn't separated the skin from the meat to get the brine in-between. That surprised me a bit, especially since I had seen the results of a colored brine on pork, and the color at least penetrated a few millimeters.

Beyond the salt and possibly sugar, there was one very subtle flavor and effect that I noticed in every slice, all the way to the bone. I couldn't put a name to it, so I asked this question a while ago: The name or chemical compound responsible for a specific quality of some spices (numbness) Very quickly, AllisonR gave me the answer I needed. It was eugenol that I was sensing all the way through the chicken. My friend/guinea pig said that he sensed it too, but only after I specifically asked him. Further research into eugenol confirmed something else that I was thinking. Beyond the effect of a subtle numbness, eugenol has its own mild aroma and flavor. That leads me to a theory...

MY THEORY (and a question within an answer)

How the salt in brine penetrates meat has been covered here ad nauseam, so I'm not even going to touch upon that. What I will address is the flavors beyond salt that can be added to brine, as many chefs advocate.

If brine can carry flavors with it into the interior of the meat, why didn't the food coloring penetrate? One of my colors was made of Red 40, AKA Allura Red AC. The molecular formula of Red 40 is C18H14N2Na2O8S2. Blue 1 was another of my colors, molecular formula C37H34N2Na2O9S3. The other colors in my box were Red 3 and Yellow 5. They are similarly huge molecules. 

As I said earlier, my brine was very spicy hot. There was some heat evident in the skin of my chicken and the outer layer of meat. Interior of that, there was no heat in the chicken. The molecular formula of capsaicin is C18H27NO3. Now that molecule isn't as huge as the food coloring molecules, but it is still a pretty big molecule.

Of all of the flavorful "stuff" I put into my brine at very concentrated levels, there was only one flavor/effect beyond the salt and (possibly) sugar that I could perceive deep into the meat. That flavor/effect has been identified as coming from eugenol. The molecular formula of eugenol is C10H12O2.

Relative to the food coloring and capsaicin, eugenol is a small molecule, and eugenol was perceptible in my chicken all the way to the bone. 

The molar masses of the relevant molecules are: Sodium chloride: 58.44 g mol−1, Sucrose: 342.30 g/mol, Red 40: 496.42 g mol−1, Capsaicin: 305.41 g mol−1, Eugenol: 164.20 g/mol

So my question within an answer is this: Can the size of the molecules explain why most flavors don't seem to penetrate and food coloring definitely does NOT penetrate chicken, but eugenol does?

CONCLUSION

I will continue almost always to brine poultry (and pork for that matter). There is no question to me that brining improves the texture and flavor of the meat. The fact that I could absolutely sense the eugenol in my brine all the way to bone of the chicken concretely supports the idea that brine does, in fact, deeply penetrate poultry. There are advocates here for dry-brining and I'll certainly give that a shot. 

Considering the huge variety and the strength of the concentration of flavors in my brine, it is significant to me that none of the flavors (besides the eugenol) seemed to penetrate the chicken. I am now convinced that adding flavor to the brine is a waste. In the future, I will save my spices, fruits and garlic for rubbing the chicken, basting the chicken and adding to sauces. They do nothing for the brine. The one exception seems to be eugenol, and that is a nice (if very mild) flavor, so spices high in eugenol might be worthwhile in brine.

I will continue the search. If my theory that small molecules can travel with the brine is correct, maybe there are other small molecules that can be responsible for nice flavors in chicken. But the straight 5% salt solution seems to be what matters. If I find another flavor that actually flavors the chicken, I will update this post.

A: One solution would be to use Whiskey Stones. These are essentially stone (or metal) cubes that you normally use for whiskey to chill it without diluting it. This will also work for your tea

However, if this is a problem you run into regularly, you can freeze an ice tray with tea to make tea ice cubes and use that to cool down your tea. The main downside is, you would need to use the ice cubes on the same type of tea or it will affect the taste of the tea.

A: The rind of Brie is Penicillium Camemberti it's a completely harmless fungus which gives brie its taste. You can eat it, or not, up to you: you are supposed to.

If it smells very strongly of ammonia the cheese is just a bit too ripe but it won't do you any harm.

A: This is physics.

There's an effect called: "Granular convection"
It's a phenomenon where if you have materials of different sizes in a container and vibrate or shake them, that the largest objects will move to the top and the smallest to the bottom.

To keep the onion from sinking, you should make the chopped onion pieces bigger relative to the other ingredients in the salad.

As you can see in JBentley's answer, in a salad where all ingredients are evenly chopped you won't get the sinking effect.

A: Yep. Rotten eggs float, fresh eggs sink.

This is because eggshells are porous, so over time water vapour and gases leak out, reducing the egg's mass.

A fresh egg will lie on its side on the bottom of a glass of water. The older the egg, the more it sits up, until it's floating.

A: The Maillard reaction can occur at a wide range of temperatures, but the lower limit is not well-defined.  It can even occur at room temperature, providing some flavoring components (for example) to ripening cheeses and Seranno ham.  At high temperatures (over 300°F/150°C), it will noticeably occur on many foods in a matter of minutes, so you can actually watch things "brown."  At lower temperatures, it may take hours, days, or even years for the effects to be noticeable.  Water inhibits the faster reactions, but at lower temperatures it actually can help the reaction by allowing proteins and sugars more freedom to circulate.

In Harold McGee's On Food and Cooking (revised ed.), he states (p. 779):

There are exceptions to the rule that browning reactions require temperatures above the boil.  Alkaline conditions, concentrated solutions of carbohydrates and amino acids, and prolonged cooking times can all generate Maillard colors and aromas in moist foods.  For example, alkaline egg whites, rich in protein, with a trace of glucose, but 90% water, will become tan-colored when simmered for 12 hours.  The base liquid for brewing beer, a water extract of barley malt that contains reactive sugars and amino acids from the germinated grains, deepens in color and flavor with several hours of boiling.  Watery meat or chicken stock will do the same as it's boiled down to make a concentrated demiglace.  Persimmon pudding turns nearly black thanks to its combination of reactive glucose, alkaline baking soda, and hours of cooking; balsamic vinegar turns nearly black over the course of years!

Note that while alkaline conditions help, they are clearly not necessary (e.g., balsamic vinegar).  Another standard example for non-alkaline conditions is traditional pumpernickel bread, which is steam baked for 12-24 hours usually at oven temperatures ranging around 225-250°F (110-120°C).  The interior of the bread does not get much above normal boiling temperature, but a significant color change can clearly be seen in such a humid, relatively low-temperature environment.

Interestingly, despite the information in many cooking sources, many of the earliest studies of Maillard reactions were in systems varying from room temperature to slightly above body temperature, from the browning reactions that create the color of soil to internal reactions in the human body that are now thought to contribute significantly to the aging process and some diseases.  Maillard reactions also play a role in the natural changes in moist food observed to happen at room temperature when stored over years, like when you discover a jar or can of food in the back of the pantry and find that the food has turned brownish.

At very high or very low temperatures, Maillard reactions are often secondary to other processes such as caramelization and enzymatic browning.

To summarize, here's a helpful poster that shows effects at various temperatures.  Briefly:

- Above 400°F (200°C) - mostly caramelization, with the possibility of burning with prolonged heating

- ~330°-400°F (165-200°C) - increasing caramelization with higher temps, which uses up sugars and thus inhibits Maillard at the high end of this range

- ~300-330°F (150-165°C) - Maillard progresses at a fast pace, causing browning noticeably within minutes

- ~212-300°F (100-150°C) - Maillard gets slower as temperature goes lower, generally requiring many hours near the boiling point of water

- ~130-212°F (55-100°C) - Maillard requires water, high protein, sugar, and alkaline conditions to advance noticeably in a matter of hours; generally can take days

- Below 130°F (55°C) - Enzymatic browning is often more significant in many foods than Maillard, but Maillard will still occur over periods from days or months to years, with progressively longer times at lower temperatures

(In some cases, certain reactions can be activated by a short time at a high temperature, which then can lead to faster browning below boiling or even near room temperature.)

One final, but very important, note: the Maillard reaction is a very general process that occurs between all sorts of amino acids and sugars.  It thus also can produce a lot of different flavor components and products, in addition to the browning.  Different reactions between particular amino acids and sugars will also occur at different rates depending on temperature.

This, I think, may be part of the reason for the confusion among various professional cooking sources about the "minimum" temperatures.  Many of the reactions that produce the classic "Maillard taste" and "Maillard smell" components don't really begin to happen appreciably until about 250°F (120°C), and they won't happen fast until 300°F (150°C) or so.  Maillard reactions at lower temperatures produce different taste and smell components, which often could be characterized as more "earthy."  While browning still happens at a slower pace, the results will actually taste different.  But because reaction products will always depend on the exact amino acids and sugars involved, as well as other conditions (moisture, pH), it's difficult to divide temperature ranges into clear flavor zones.

A: Use a grater

If your butter is too stiff, try using a cheese grater on it. The mechanical action will warm the butter slightly and soften it, and the huge increase in surface area will allow the room's ambient warmth to soften the butter much faster. Spread the butter shavings in a single layer to maximize surface area, and they should soften in a few minutes. You'll be unlikely to over-soften the butter with this method, so you won't run a risk of winding up with melted butter instead of softened butter.

A: Possibly even easier than using ice or fridges or anything... pour it repeatedly from one container to another. Constant exposure to the air will rapidly cool the drink, you can get it to drinking temperature in less than a minute.

(Just make sure you pour accurately, or use larger containers. Spilling hot tea is no fun.)

Here's an example of a street vendor, who likes to be a show-off with this kind of thing. You can see him cool tea to drinking temperature in 10 seconds.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-surEvJXj34

A: There are 2 non-plastic cutting board options that I'm aware of that are dishwasher safe and aren't damaging to knives like glass boards.

First, there are the rubber cutting boards popular with commercial kitchens, sold under brand names like Sani-TUFF. While some sources (e.g. KaTom Restaurant Supply) claim these have to be hand washed, they are popular in commercial kitchens because they can handle the heat of the commercial sanitizing dishwashers without warping or melting, and they don't pick up scratches as easily as plastic. They are also generally anti-microbial, I assume because they are non-porous. Although these are usually synthetic rubber, they are much harder than plastic cutting boards -- though not too hard on your knives -- and the likelihood of you consuming any part of them inadvertently should be pretty small.

Next, there are wood fiber composite cutting boards. The brand I know best of these is the Epicurean label. They are made from various specific materials, but the Epicurean label is made from a paper composite called Richlite. Assuming it's the blend discussed on the Richlite page, it is 65% recycled paper and 35% phenolic resin. While that is a synthetic polymer, it's much harder than your typical cutting board and is unlikely to melt (up to 350°F) or react with anything it's likely to come into contact with in your kitchen. These boards are also quite dense, so again, the likelihood of you consuming any of it unintentionally is exceedingly low.

Both of these products are also "workable", meaning you could cut them to custom sizes or shapes and sand them if they ever get scratched up enough to need it.

For what it's worth, environmental sources of microplastics are a much stronger vector than anything in your kitchen, and many of these are practically unavoidable. However, if you are concerned about plastic from cutting boards, both of the above options are far more durable and less likely to introduce plastic into your food but are more convenient than wood in terms of cleaning. Of course, I encourage you to research these on your own and use your best judgment.

A: A regular electric oven uses a large coiled resistor as a heating element. A large electric current is passed through this element which generates heat, similar to the tungsten filament of an incandescent light bulb.

An induction stove doesn't actually generate heat itself, but rather induces it the pot or pan. It does this using a rapidly oscillating magnetic field. This field induces an electric current in a ferromagnetic pan which generates heat, thus heating the food.

Induction stoves are faster, safer, and more energy efficient than traditional electric stoves. It requires significantly less electricity to create the magnetic field than it does to drive enough current through a resistor to make it heat up. They are safer because they don't actually generate heat themselves. After taking a pot off the "burner" (glass surface) it quickly begins to cool.

With regards to differences in the cooking process, there's not much. You just need to be aware that it heats up much more quickly and cools down much more quickly than a traditional electric stove. It does affect your choice of pans however. All aluminum pans will not work, nor will some lower quality stainless steel ones. If a magnet sticks to the pan then it will work just fine. The pan must also have a flat bottom to make full contact with the surface.

A: This is total nonsense: grass fed ribeye should absolutely not be tough. Toughness is, however, affected by the cow's breed, it's age, by how stressed it was when it was slaughtered, by ageing of the meat, and I'm sure a bunch of other variables too. Something made the meat tough, but it wasn't grass feeding - the combination of strong beefy flavour and toughness might suggest an old cow, for instance. Next time choose grass-fed beef raised by a different farmer.

A: "Better" might be a matter of interpretation. The oils will behave a bit differently, however.

Mineral Oil is a non-drying oil, which means that it will not polymerize (form a plastic-like substance) over time. This is good for oiling cutting boards because it will stay a bit liquid in the wood and flow into cracks and scratches. It is also food-safe and won't go rancid or support microorganisms.

Linseed Oil (AKA Flaxseed Oil, or Flax Oil) is also a good choice, for a different reason. Linseed Oil is a drying oil, which means it will fully polymerize and form a harder plastic layer. This is why it is about the best oil for seasoning cast iron pans. It may be more durable than mineral oil, but lacks the ability to "flow".

A blend of the two sounds like a fine idea. My favorite, Howard's Butcher Block Conditioner is a mix of Mineral Oil and natural waxes like Carnauba and Beeswax, which add a bit of that "durability" that Linseed Oil could add.

What would be a bad choice are most food oils like Canola, Olive Oil, Lard, etc. Unsaturated fats will oxidize (go rancid) and affect your food. Even oils high in saturated fats may have too many anti-oxidants (which are bad in this case), which will prevent polymerization and leave a gummy surface. These semi-drying oils are of no use here.

Whatever you use, make sure it is intended for food (Linseed Oil is a common woodworking finish, and not all versions are intended for use with food). Mineral Oil is probably more convenient for quick daily wipe-downs, while some of the blends are probably a bit more suited toward occasional re-finishing. Either way, regular application and keeping the board dry while not in use will make more difference than the exact type of oil.

A: Make a soup out of it!  Dice the meat up, sweat some aromatics (onion, celery, etc.) in a pot, put in 1-2 liters of water, add the meat and let it come to a boil.  Then, bring the heat down to a simmer and taste it.  If it's still too salty, you can add more water and/or adjust more seasonings to balance it out with the other flavors.  If it's still too salty for your tastes, cook something starchy like rice, pasta or potatoes and then serve a ladle of soup on top, like a sauce.

A: These egg cookers work by simply heating the water until it all evaporates. Most cookers sense when all the water is evaporated, and automatically turn off and/or alerting with a beep or noise. They have a sensor under the hot plate that detects temperature. When water is still in the pan, it keeps the pan cool, and when water evaporates completely the pan bottom will start to get hotter.

The water is heated in the pan in the bottom, works it way past the eggs, and eventually out the holes in the lid.
So why more water for fewer eggs?

The tray that holds the eggs has a bunch of holes in it. Each egg cup has a hole in the bottom so that the steam has direct contact with the bottom of the egg. When the tray is full, it reduces the number of outlets and traps more steam under the tray. Similar to putting a lid on a pot, this reduces the speed of evaporation.

With only one egg blocking one hole, the steam can escape more readily out from the bottom of the tray to the top, and steam will escape out into the room more quickly.

To compensate for the fact that steam is escaping the egg cooker slightly faster when there are fewer eggs, you use slightly more water when there are fewer eggs.
A fun experiment

You could use eggs (or a heat proof substitute... Maybe something ping pong ball or golf ball sized (but not ping pong balls--they melt at 80°C)) to block off the "egg holes" and collect a series of timings for how long it takes for all the water to evaporate as you vary the number of eggs & water.

You should find that when you follow package directions, the timing of the cycle is approximately the same.

Similarly, if you use only one egg, and the "6/7 egg" water amount, you'll find the cycle (and complete water evaporation) faster than the full "1 egg" water amount. Again, this is just because there's an easier path for the steam to escape.

A: You should use both. Knives have a very thin ragged edge (the burr) that is too small to see, which gets pushed over from use, and which makes the knife seem dull. A honing steel straightens this burr out. I use a honing steel before I cook every day.

Over time, the burr wears down, or can no longer be straightened. At this point, you will need to use the sharpener, which actually removes metal from the blade. One metaphor would be that if your knife was carpet, honing is like vacuuming, and sharpening is like steam cleaning.

A: Yes, with any kind of 'stewing' sauce, the flavour improves the longer you cook it (provided it's a slow, gentle process). The longer you leave it, the more chance the flavours have to 'marry'. I have a recipe for a pasta sauce that calls for 6 hours of slow simmering!

You may also have noticed in the past that left over pasta sauce that you eat the next day is really good, for the same reason as above. Any stew, in fact, like bolognese, casserole, chilli, bourgignon etc, is really delicious when left overnight and reheated.

A: Searing on a grill to "seal in juices" has largely been disproven.  Meat loses juice at roughly the same speed regardless of searing the meat first.  Searing does produce the Maillard reaction and caramelization which enhances flavor; however, searing first doesn't produce better results.  A test performed by Alton Brown in 2008 demonstrated that searing at the end of the cooking process loses less water than searing at the beginning.  For more information see this link.

For the Alton Brown results see this link (video).

A: There are a couple options, in increasing order of effort:

- Pour it down the sink. Sucrose forms a saturated aqueous solution at ~200 g sucrose per 100 g water at 15C/~60F - for 10 kg of dry sucrose, you'd need a minimum ~5 L tap cold water to dissolve it - without accounting for the water it's already absorbed. You can add this water to the sugar before pouring down the drain to dissolve it first, and if you knew the mass of water absorbed you can subtract that amount.

There's low risk of clogging since sucrose readily dissolves in water - and if it does, add hot water.

Added clarification for dissolving sugar:

- 

~5 litres of tap-cold, 15C water is the minimum amount physically required to dissolve ~10 kg sucrose for energy and water-saving purposes. More water can be used to dissolve this.

- 

Dissolved sucrose flows easily and further dilutes very readily. The same cannot be said for other types of fluid sugars, i.e. high-fructose corn syrup, honey, caramel - these flow and dissolve very differently, and in the case of honey, may rapidly crystallize before dissolving.

- 

The experimental solubility of sucrose in water (grams per gam) is 1.94 @15C, 1.89 @10c, 1.85 @5C, 1.81 @0C. Given a worst-case scenario with 10 kg sucrose saturated solution at 15C being instantaneously chilled and ignoring the enthalpy of crystallization:

At 10C, 258 g sucrose will precipitate, requiring an additional 138 mL of water (slightly more than half a cup) to remain dissolved;

At 5C, 464 g sucrose will precipitate, requiring an additional 251 mL of water (one cup) to remain dissolved;

At 0C, 671 g sucrose will precipitate, requiring an additional 371 mL of water to remain dissolved - if your indoor pipes are at 0C, you've got bigger problems to worry about.

- 

The kitchen sink and not flush toilets is the preferred disposal receptacle for both efficiency of water use and ease of addressing clogs.

Both should have p-bends/air traps to stop sewer gases entering the home, though the kitchen sink will 1) be more easily accessible with the trap normally in a vertical line under the sink drain, 2) the toilet's thermal mass may rapidly cool any added hot water, and 3) some toilets may feature multiple bend traps, leaving undissolved sugar stuck in harder to reach areas. Regardless, both sinks and toilets will clog if enough solid sugar is dumped in as it settles.

Figures of toilet cross-sections from Wikipedia.

Graph from The Engineering Toolbox.

- Store the sugar in the fridge uncovered and allow it to slowly desiccate before disposing in garbage. Requires space, preferably at the bottom for food safety, and a larger surface area for faster drying.

- Air dry the sugar outside and then dispose in garbage. There is a risk that it may generate odours and attract pests during drying.

For future projects, would you consider reusable silica dessicants? Dehydration time would be longer and you'd need a larger volume container, but you would also not need to have it in direct contact with the meat.

- Unconventional option: heat the sugar to boil off the water and make meaty caramel. If you enjoy salted caramel flavours, this might add extra Maillard browning complexity from the dissolved meat proteins and other compounds.

A: Storing brown sugar in a tightly sealed container (such as tupperware, rubbermaid, etc.) is the best method.

Once it dries out however it can be re-moisturized by placing a piece of apple or bread with it inside a tightly sealed container.  After a day or two the brown sugar will soften and the bread will dry up or the apple will shrivel.

This is due to the hygroscopic nature(ability to absorb moisture from the surrounding atmosphere)of brown sugar. 

You'll see "brown sugar keepers" in gourmet and cookware shops that are round decorative unglazed ceramic or terra cotta disks.  The concept is to soak them in water for an hour or two and then dry and place in the brown sugar.  Save your money and use a piece of bread or apple when the brown sugar is drying up.

You can also soften it for immediate use by microwaving for a little bit.  This should only be used for immediate use because after the sugar cools it will have lost more moisture (due to the fact that microwaves are heating the moisture in food).

A: There really is no practical difference; the dictionary definition of a soup is:

  

a liquid food made by boiling or simmering meat, fish, or vegetables with various added ingredients.

Which also applies to any stew you can conceive of.

The technical, highly-nuanced difference is that of emphasis and intent. Stewing is a method of cooking the solids (specifically, a slow, moist-heat method). When you make a beef stew, you are stewing the beef, which says nothing about what you're stewing it in. On the other hand, when you make a chicken soup (or a chicken stock or broth which is the base of a chicken soup) then your objective is essentially to make chicken-flavoured liquid - to extract the flavour of the solids into the liquid. If some flavourful solids remain, then that is incidental as opposed to intentional.

In practice, some flavour extraction is going to happen with a stew as well, it just so happens that the principal aim is to cook the meat/veggies. A soup is more likely to contain raw or barely-cooked ingredients, and a stew is more likely to preserve the original flavour of the solids and/or liquids, but that's a very broad generalization and what it boils down to (ha ha) in practice seems to be largely dependent on the culture and the dish itself.

A stew is not simply a thick or chunky soup, despite the fact that a lot of people think of it that way. As above, that seems to be more common with stews, but it's not part of the definition, and the French have half a dozen categories for thickened soups that could easily be described as having the overall consistency of a "stew".

A: Moderate heat, eggs at room temperature, non-stick egg pan (8" is good, with gently sloping sides) with a tight lid. Melt butter in the egg pan until it stops foaming. Crack your eggs into a bowl so you've got more control when you add them to the egg pan. Cook uncovered until just the bottoms of the white are set, the tops of the whites should still be transparent. Add 1Tbs water for two eggs, cover, check after 45 seconds and give the eggs a jiggle to be sure they will slide neatly out of the pan. They may be ready at this point, they may need another 30 seconds to a minute.

EDIT: I'm hungry anyway:

My pan isn't ideal, I'd rather have 8", this one is 10" but it has a lid. My eggs are at room temperature, I have butter ready and a tablespoon of water. A heat-proof rubber spatula is nice to have, but if everything goes right you don't even need it. I turn the heat to 1 click out of 10 below medium (YMMV [Your Mileage May Vary]). After giving the burner and pan a couple of minutes to heat up it should take room temperature butter about 10 seconds to fully melt and another 5 seconds to stop sizzling.

 

One thing that I like about cracking eggs into a bowl first is that it allows me to better center the yolks.

The whites should start to become opaque almost immediately, but they shouldn't take on any brown color or be sizzling hard, just gently. Once the bottoms of the eggs are completely opaque (this should take less than 30 seconds), add the water and cover immediately. Now the eggs are steaming.

Fortyfive seconds and a jiggle later they're just about there! (This is when I'll add salt and pepper, I'll wait until they're plated for the hot sauce I can't live without.)

10 more seconds under the lid, slide onto the plate. Voilà, completely set whites, completely runny yolks.  OOPS, I forgot the tiny bit of white on top. That's easy, using a spoon, give the eggs a quick baste of the hot butter before adding water and placing the lid.

You can also just steam the eggs until the yolks have a bit of opaque white on top with or without basting them. With practice you can control just how done you get your yolks on a scale that runs between totally runny, to creamy, to still translucent looking but nearly solid, to dry and crumbly (after piercing the yolk, usually). 

Flipping is a different technique to get a very similar result.

One more quick note: You may notice that I used quite a bit of butter. That's just personal preference when my jeans are fitting just fine. You may use much less butter if you prefer, another type of fat, or even just a spray of non-stick spray (Pam). If you use a minimum amount of fat, or even none, the "check and jiggle" step becomes even more important. Make sure you can slide the eggs around in the pan. If they're sticking at all, this is when the heat-proof rubber (silicone) spatula can be very helpful.

A: I usually freeze mozzarella and then grate it (longer the better, unless you are in a hurry, then 20 minutes or so works OK).  This works very well.  Other soft cheeses, such as those meant to be eaten at room temp, brie, for example, I wouldn't freeze...  Of course, I don't think many of us are grating brie anyway.

A: For white wine, try:

- chicken broth/stock

- vegetable stock

- white grape juice

- ginger ale

- canned mushroom liquid

- diluted white wine or cider vinegar

For red wine, try:

- beef or chicken broth/stock

- diluted red wine vinegar

- red grape juice

- tomato juice

- canned mushroom liquid

A great list of substitutions for cooking with various alcoholic ingredients may be found here.

A: Depends on the person but typically... no.

I'm not sure how bad cross contamination is in terms of food safety, but grills are high heat, though you might not always heat the food through.

Many observant vegetarians however would minimally prefer separate dedicated utensils and cooking surfaces not used for meat. I personally wouldn't eat it, as a vegetarian (for religious reasons) and many ideological ones would probably consider it unacceptable.

If you want to be safe, don't.

A: The existing answers already explain why yeast and baking powder won't work together. But even if they did, you wouldn't have a reason to use them. 

You seem to think that fluffiness depends on the amount of gas produced by the leaveners. In fact, it depends on both the gas and the ability of the dough to trap that gas. If you produce too much gas (no matter whether through yeast or through baking powder), then the fluffiness will be less than when using the optimal amount of leavener. This happens because your dough cannot hold the gas and the bubbles break, resulting in the dough deflating like a punctured tire. So even if combining two leaveners would have resulted in more "blowing big" action (which it doesn't, see the other answers), you would not end up with a fluffier end product. If you want fluffy muffins, you have to use a recipe and a technique which is best capable of retaining the gas produced by the baking powder. The amount of gas production is not a bottleneck.

A: This is based on what I was taught by a Chinese cook when I worked in his restaurant at age seventeen. Any compliments should be directed at old Tommy Wu.  Any complaints may be due to my imperfect memory. His process was both similar and different in some respects from yours.

- 

Use day-old cooked cold white rice.  Spending the night refrigerated will make it drier and easier to break up sticky clumps.

- 

Fry your scrambled eggs first and set them aside.

- 

Use a well-seasoned wok or pan with very little oil.  Do not add broccoli, onions, or other vegetables at this point. They will be added after the plain brown fried rice is done to turn it into a specific dish.

- 

Dump the cold rice into a cold wok or pan and add your basic flavors on top of it.  I remember the proportions and ingredients as being roughly 3-4 gallons of rice, 2 cups of regular soy sauce, one cup of thick black soy sauce, 1/8 cup of salt. These are rough guesses on my part since we did not measure anything precisely.  The "cups" were actually big metal ladles and the salt was some amount at the bottom of the ladle. You would have to experiment to proportion it down for home quantities and to match your taste since you want to limit your sodium.

- 

Crank up the heat and get ready for a workout.  A commercial wok makes an extraordinary amount of heat. I might use a cast iron skillet with high sides or a dutch oven at home. Either way the stove should be cranked up as high as it will go. The main thing that people do wrong when frying rice is that they are afraid of getting it too hot and burning it. You want to have your pan super hot but to keep the rice moving around to prevent it from burning.  That is one reason why you should use very little or even no oil since it would smoke in this circumstance.

- 

Assuming you are right handed, take a metal spatula in your right hand and a metal ladle in your left. Use the spatula to scrape every inch of the pan repeatedly into the ladle which is a backstop. This is done with both arms moving in an upward "tossing" motion. If you have the heat high enough, you will have to work quickly and constantly for several minutes scraping and tossing. Don't neglect to scrape the far side of the pan or it will burn.

- 

Every thirty seconds or so, hold the spatula vertically into the center of the upward-facing ladle and hammer them down together over a variety of spots in the pan. This gets the rice hotter and really gets the browning effect you want. Only do this stamping for ten seconds or so and immediately get back to scraping or it will start to burn.

- 

After about five minutes, it should be steaming nicely, the browning will look cooked rather than merely dyed by soy, and your arms will feel like they want to fall off.  Get the fried rice out of the pan quickly into a large bowl and then stir in your scrambled eggs. Since you are adding them at the end, they should not break up nearly as much as they were for you.

- 

Now you can eat it as plain fried rice or use it as a base for a fancier dish with meat or vegetables.  This can be kept and reheated for a day or two if you want, as long as it is will covered.  It is best kept warm (140 degrees?) in a steamer to keep it from drying out.  If I remember right, we would cook the meats, vegetables, and mushrooms in a brown soy-based sauce first, then add the warm brown rice to that pan when the meat and veggies were done.  That keeps you from cooking the rice twice and lets you cook those components in a way that is more suitable for them.

A: Soften.  Other things that typically are added with salt will tend to toughen the beans, but it isn't the fault of the salt.  For decades, chefs have circulated the oral tradition that adding salt hardens beans, but it's a myth.

Several scientific studies verify that adding salt to the soaking water for dried beans will reduce the cooking times.  The first and most cited article, originally published in 1977, can be found here.  As mentioned in the first answer you cited, the fine folks at Cooks Illustrated found in 2008 that 3 TBSP per gallon of water produces soft skins while not over-salting the interior of the beans.

Since you can't see the full article, here is the science according to CI:

"Why does soaking dried beans in salted water make them cook up with
softer skins? It has to do with how the sodium ions in salt interact
with the cells of the bean skins. As the beans soak, the sodium ions
replace some of the calcium and magnesium ions in the skins. Because
sodium ions are weaker than mineral ions, they allow more water to
penetrate into the skins, leading to a softer texture. During soaking,
the sodium ions will only filter partway into the beans, so their
greatest effect is on the cells in the outermost part of the beans."

Harold McGee's NY Times blog (August 9, 2008) also notes that adding salt early enough will allow complete penetration of the bean, which improves flavor.

On the other hand, things typically added with salt -- particularly sugar and calcium-rich products -- tend to toughen beans (and the salt gets the blame).  This toughening effect is most notable in baked-bean recipes using things like ketchup, molasses, and BBQ sauce. You can bake these beans for days, yet the beans will stay whole and firm.  The actual mechanism for this effect is not clear; one hypothesis currently circulating seems to be that these products stabilize the cell-cell "glue" (e.g., Shirley Corriher says so on Good Eats "Pantry Raid III - Cool Beans", transcript online here), but I could not find any peer-reviewed study specifically verifying that hypothesis.

A: Sure it's safe. You are about to char the outside at very high temperatures, nothing's going to survive that, so cleaning it is more about flavor than safety. I wouldn't just wipe it though, clean it with water or you might get a dirtier steak flavor than you'd like.

A: You get better through concentration and lack of distractions. Just as you shouldn't eat while watching TV. You'll miss all the flavors.

Sit back. Take small samples. Let it lay or slosh around in your mouth for a while--several seconds at least. Think about what you taste and feel.

Soon you will find those one-tone flavors have a background to them or a subtle second or third flavor coming out of nowhere.

After a while, you'll start noticing those underlying flavors every time you use that ingredient and notice it missing when you have a not-so-good variety.

A: The California Avocado Commission suggestions:

- To ripen a California Avocado, place the fruit in a plain brown paper bag and store at room temperature 65-75° until ready to eat (usually two to five days).

- Including an apple or banana in the bag accelerates the process because these fruits give off ethylene gas, a ripening reagent.

- Soft ripe fruit can be refrigerated until it is eaten, but not for more than two or three days.

- The California Avocado Commission does not recommend using a microwave to accelerate the ripening process.

A: Could be an unfinished roux (the butter, flour mixture). But most likely it's because the cheese was heated too quickly or too much, causing the protein to clump up.

Suggestions:

- Melt with less heat

- Use a double boiler (to reduce hot spots within the pan)

- Toss the shredded cheddar with cornstarch first (starch helps reduce clumping)

- Add cheese in smaller batches (easier to maintain correct heat level and stir cheese in)

A: I use Propane all the time.  There are several factors as to why:

- It is cheap, about 1/4 the price of butane.  

- It’s more readily available.  You can buy a propane torch at many different stores for very cheap.  

- The torches typically put out a lot more heat.  I’ve used both propane and butane, mostly for crème brulee, but other food as well.  The butane torches put out such a focused small area of heat, that it would get uneven burning.  Whereas with Propane, they often put out a much larger area of heat, making it easier to caramelize across the surface evenly.

As for the concern of it imparting propane flavor, I have had that happen, once, but I’ve also had that happen with butane.  It’s all about flow control.  If you have the dial turned up too high and it’s spewing out massive amounts of propane, plus hold the flame too close to the food, you MIGHT get then hint of propane.  But if you have the torched dialed in to the proper settings, you really can’t beat the ease and convenience of “energy-efficient clean-burning propane gas”

A: It is because of the way starch retrogrades. It does so in stages. The first stage needs between 1 and 2 hours, the second one a few days. 

You have probably seen it more clearly in starch-thickened puddings: they thicken a bit on stovetop, but are only ready to unmold after a few hours, else they wuoldn't keep their shape. In a bread, the starch granules are the same way: right after baking, they contain too much moisture. 

Sure, if you eat the bread right away, the aroma is very good. But the texture is problematic. It gets doughy and dense at the smallest amount of pressure. Tearing instead of cutting helps a bit. And if you are at home, eating with your family, go for it and eat the tasty still-hot bread. It is especially good with soft, low-gluten breads made with AP flour with the least amount of bran (50% milling grade or even less), my grandma would say that they "melt in the mouth" when they are hot. But if you serve bread slices to guests, or want to spread something on the bread, wait for its starch to set. 

On a side note, the second stage of starch retrogradation is the reason why you should use day-old bread for crumbs for thickening, and the third stage is the one which makes bread inedible. But this goes too far away from the original question.

A: If you bought a good cheddar, the white spots are most likely tyrosine crystals. They build up in the cheese during the aging process, and they are a very desirable feature which gives the cheese much more taste and character. 

Well aged cheese has some acid and bitter notes, but mostly umami. It also has lots of cheesy aroma, which smells distinctly like proteins and fermentation, I don't know how to describe it else. It is distantly related to budding yeast. 

The slices at the top are not cheddar, they are processed cheese. It probably started out with cheese made with a cheddaring process (but not taken to maturity), but frankly, all commercially processed cheeses taste the same, it doesn't matter what you started with. 

There is unaged cheddar on the market. It is real cheddar, and has a very different texture from the processed cheese, but it is much milder in taste, having not yet developed its aroma. You can buy this one. As a pleasant side effect, it is much cheaper than the aged cheddar.

A: Yes, there are differences.  Unfortunately, many potatoes have been bred for crop yield and storage over flavor ... and so the flavor differences that you might see in South America don't tend to be so prevalent in the US and Europe.

"Factory farming" in many ways started because of potatoes.  McDonalds wanted to get rid of regional differences in their french fries, and so contracted with farmers in Idaho to grow a single variety of potato for them so they could get the uniformity that they wanted.

Starch:

The main difference for those sold in the US is the type of starch in the potato -- most potatoes can be sorted into 'floury' vs. 'waxy' types:

- 

Floury potatoes (also called 'baking potatoes', 'mealy potatoes', or 'starchy potatoes') will fall apart after cooking.  This means that they disintegrate if you try to use them for soups and stews, but they make a lump-free mashed potato or a "fluffy" baked potato.  Russets are in this category.

- 

Waxy potatoes (also called 'boiling potatoes') will soften but stay a little bit firm and mostly stay in one piece after cooking if you don't agitate them too much.  This makes them better for stews or potato salad where you want distinct chunks of potatoes, but worse for really fluffy mashed potatoes.  "Red" potatoes tend to fall into this category.

- 

There are also in-between types, such as "Yukon Gold" (some people put "white" potatoes in this category) -- they'll mash up okay (maybe with a few lumps), and if you use them in stews, they'll have firm chunks but the outsides will start to break up if you stir too vigorously.  This is actually a benefit in some recipes.

As the starches change over time, "new" potatoes tend to behave more like waxy/boiling potatoes even when they come from a baking-type potato.

Sugar:

Some potatoes are sweeter than other varieties, although this can also change during storage.  (Cold storage will get many varieties of potatoes to change their starches into sugars ... but it may happen unevenly).  Sweeter potatoes will brown more, which can cause problems if they brown too quickly or unevenly when subjected to high heat (frying, roasting), which means the potato is either undercooked while looking pretty, or too dark when it's fully cooked through.

If you're working with a recipe that calls for a specific variety of the potato, sugar levels can often be the reason.  There's at least one recipe out there that relies on cold-induced sweetening to try to convert American potatoes to more closely match an Austrian variety.

When starting out, you might not worry so much about the facet, other than considerations about long-term cold storage.

Water/Moisture Content:

How wet a potato is affects how it cooks and how well it stores.  It can also affect how much liquid it'll absorb when making mashed potatoes or similar, so a drier potato will allow you to add more flavorful liquid.

But I can never remember which varieties are dryer than others, so I rarely use this as a consideration.  It's often more important to know that when a recipe calls for letting the potatoes to steam after cooking but before mixing in other ingredients, it might be about moisture release, not just cooling.

Shape/Size:

"New" potatoes and "fingerling" potatoes have a large surface area for their volume.  This makes them a complete waste if you're going to be pealing them.  They're better for skin-on, whole or mostly whole (halved / quartered) preparations.

If I'm going to be doing some sort of peeled and cut up preparation, then I want larger potatoes so I don't spend so much time peeling them (and waste so much volume compared to what's left).

Even if I'm leaving the skin on, I tend to favor slightly larger potatoes as I don't have to spend as much time scrubbing them.  I'd rather quarter larger potatoes for roasting instead of dealing with the tiny potatoes.

If I'm baking potatoes, then I'll try to select ones that are uniformly sized, and a reasonable portion for what I'm preparing.  (larger if it's the main thing, like chili over a baked potato ... but smaller if it's intended as a side).  If I'm selecting loose potatoes, I might try to get some variety of size (so that people have a choice), but I try to stick with ones that are roughly the same circumference but different lengths so they cook up in roughly the same time.

Skins:

For applications where you're not peeling the potatoes, especially when they're an important part of the dish such as potato skins or twice-baked potatoes, you may want to consider the texture of the skins.  "New" and "Red" potatoes tend to have thinner skins, while Russet potatoes tend to have a thicker, rougher skin.

Color:

As the colors come from chemicals produced by the plant, there can be distinctive flavors associated with them, but they also provide variety on a plate.  (although beware of mixing your own, as they'll cook up differently.  Stick to small "new" potatoes.

Also note that skin color is independent of the flesh color.  Most "Red" potatoes in the US such as "Red Bliss" are stark white on the inside ... but there are some varieties that have red flesh.

Flavor:

Flavor is a bit of a weird thing, as everyone processes flavors a little bit differently.  I like the various yellow potatoes, as I find them to be more "buttery", but I've never done a blind taste test so I have no idea if it's the yellow color that's tricking me.

If you're serving the potatoes with a fairly plain preparation, then the potato flavors are going to come through better... but if you're covering it with vinegary pulled pork or sour cream and chives, then it's probably not worth paying extra for an exceptionally flavored potato.

Packaging/Processing:

You can get pre-washed, microwave-in-the-bag potatoes if you're willing to pay more.  For smaller potatoes, they may not be vastly overpriced compared to loose potatoes of a similar size (and smaller potatoes are a PITA, so they can sometimes be worth it)

Bagged potatoes are a cost-savings, but they're also a bit of a gamble -- are the potatoes all the right size/shape for what I'm cooking?  Is there going to be an off/weird/sprouting potato hiding in the bottom of the bag?  Am I buying the right amount for what I need?  (ie. I going to eat 5lbs of potatoes before I have to worry about sprouting?)  Are the potatoes fairly smooth, or will they have lots of wrinkles or shovel damage that I have to scrub at?

In general, potatoes in grocery stores tend to be cleaner than in the past, but not all processors have the same equipment to wash & dry their potatoes before sale, so some are just ... dirtier.  Usually, there won't be as much variation within a store, but you might see it from store-to-store.  (or store-to-farmstand)

A: The denaturing of proteins refers to their physical structure, not their nutritional value. This might help. As is detailed in the link, heat, acid, salt, alcohol, and mechanical agitation can cause proteins to denature. This denaturing is when the folded strands of protein unfurl into a long strand of amino acids.

A: Original question has been edited since this answer was posted. Microwave wasn't mentioned originally.

Microwave.

Don't mic it until it's soft! The effect keeps going.

Give it 5s at a time & try to smoosh the result every time for 30s. If you run it too long, it will go liquid in the centre first, which you don't want, so gently, gently.

5s, wait, smoosh, wait.

Better it takes 3 or 4 minutes of gradual effort to perfectly soft than 30 seconds to liquid with lumps in ;)

Suggestions to reduce power depend on how your microwave reduces its power. Very few 'inverter' models can actually reduce the strength of the microwaves transmitted. Most simply switch the full power on & off in different time intervals. This means you never quite know when it's on or off, making the whole process much more difficult to time accurately.

Full power in known small times with pauses & manual intervention is a more controllable process, less likely to over-heat.

A: The slime is called mucilage. It is around the seeds on the inside of the pod. It is made of protein and carbohydrates including fiber.

The mucilage is (as you alluded in your question) used for thickening gumbos and similar stews. Besides this, I've only ever seen it referred to as an annoyance and avoided by leaving the pod whole or dry cooking like frying.

I imagine there could be some creative halloween uses of mucilage but those would be off topic for this site. :)

EDIT

I was embarrassed that this answer was the accepted answer. I don't like answers that are (as mine was) "no that isn't possible because I've never heard of it." I was hoping someone else would shatter my world with some amazing new use of okra slime.

My curiosity piqued I used some of my copious free time while code compiled to do some more research.

I was able to find a couple of non traditional okra recipes that seemed interesting- such as candied okra slices or using the seeds from pickled okra as a caviar-like dish. But none of them took advantage of the mucilage- they all avoided it.

Carbohydrate based mucilage is used in ice cream and for other reasons. I found the following study about food health that did experiments with replacing milk fat with specifically okra mucilage (they refer to it as "okra gum")

Okra gum is acceptable milk-fat ingredient substitute in dessert

Two pertinent quotes:

"Although not currently produced by food manufacturers, previous studies produced fat-free chocolate bar cookies with acceptable sensory characteristics using okra gum as a fat ingredient substitute."

"Specifically, color and smell of frozen dairy desserts containing okra gum replacement for milk fat did not significantly differ from the control product. Texture, flavor, aftertaste, and overall acceptability ratings also averaged five or higher (neutral to like) for all products."

The study was about replacing milk fat where I think it would be more interesting as an enhancer as you asked in your question. 

It seems perfectly reasonable that okra mucilage could find a place in more modern recipes. 

But I couldn't find anyone doing it.

A: Bread hydration varies widely.  The "standard" bread using all-purpose (plain) flour has a ratio of water to flour weight (hydration) 60-65%.  Flour with a higher protein level, labelled as bread, strong, or high-gluten, tend to use 65% hydration.  Ciabatta and rustic breads generally use more water than normal.  The extra water gives them more large, uneven holes in the interior of the bread (called the crumb), and generally leads to a higher-rising bread. These wetter doughs are often referred to as "slack" doughs in baker's parlance.

Here are a couple sample hydrations from Hammelman's bread baking:

- Baguettes with poolish, 66% hydration, all bread flour

- Ciabatta, 73% hydration, all bread flour

- Pain Rustique (rustic bread), 69% hydration, all bread flour

- Country Bread, 68% hydration, all bread flour

- Roasted Potato bread, 61% hydration, 85% bread flour / 15% whole wheat flour / 25% roasted potatoes

- Whole wheat bread, 68% hydration, 50/50 whole wheat and bread flour

- Semolina (Durum) bread, 62% hydration, 50/50 durum and bread flours

Mind you, it is quite possible to make a bread with even higher water content, if one is a skilled baker.  Wetter breads (70% hydration and up) generally cannot be hand-kneaded normally, and require a mechanical mixer, stretch-and-fold kneading with a spatula, or autolysis. Autolysis is when you mix water and flour before adding yeast, and then allow it to sit.  This allows enzymes in the flour to develop gluten before the rising begins, and can supplement or replace normal kneading.  

Another approach, called double-hydration, is to add only part of the water before kneading.  This allows you to knead the bread to develop gluten structure before it becomes too wet to knead.

For extremely wet breads, these methods may all be combined.  I'm looking right now at a double-hydration, mechanically mixed, autolyzed, poolish-using ciabatta recipe that sits at 76% hydration.

A: It has long been known that receptacles influence the taste and appreciation of beverages. 

Wine glasses, for example, are optimal for giving the nose an opportunity to experience the wine. They enclose a volume that allows you to swish the wine in the glass (without spilling it) to impart the aroma to air in the glass. The usually tapered opening keeps the aroma from dissipating before your nose can sense the wine.

Champagne flutes, keep the effervescent champagne or prosecco bubbly and cold long enough to enjoy the drink without it going flat. 

Different beer glasses are optimal for showcasing the "head" and are tall for the same reason as champagne flutes (to keep the effervescence going as long as possible).

I think it is absolutely the case that the same kinds of considerations apply to cola and other effervescent soft drinks. My opinion is that the best glass for such beverages is a "collins" glass. It it tall and narrow and keeps the bubbles going for a longer time than a wide glass, it is like a champagne flute but holds a larger volume which is needed for soft drinks.

A: Your primary defenses against cross-contamination include proper planning in the order of what you're cutting and proper cleaning between uses.  In the case of your stew, simply cut the vegetables first and then cut your meat.  Doing so in this order you won't need to wash the board between the vegetables and meat.  If you want to expedite the cooking process, then either use a separate board for the meat first so that you can start browning it while cutting the vegetables, or simply wash and re-use the board.  A good scrubbing with hot soapy water is fine for your knife and board (including wood boards).

As mentioned previously, if you're still concerned about bacteria you can rub the board with lemon juice or vinegar which will kill any residual bacteria.

Using separate boards that are relegated to specific meat vs. vegetable duty isn't necessary as long as you're properly cleaning your boards.  A board only used for meat items is just as liable to transfer bacteria to the next item being cut on it if it isn't properly washed between uses.  That being said, if you're properly cleaning them then it's fine to cut vegetables on a board that's also been used previously for meat.

As for cutting boards, your best bet for the care and maintenance for your knives are either wood or composite materials (usually a laminated product of paper and resin - "Epicurean" being a prominent brand.

Never use a tempered glass cutting board or other hard surface (granite, marble, Corian, etc.) as these are heavily damaging to the edge of your blade and unsafe for you as there is nothing for the knife to bite and grip into and it's much more likely to slip and cut you.

Plastic cutting boards and mats aren't very good on your knives and the boards in particular are either too hard and dull your blade prematurely or are soft and end up with lots of cuts and grooves which then trap food.  People often have a false sense of security with plastic boards believing them to be "non-porous".  As the board is used, food material ends up crammed into the cuts and grooves and while the boards can go into the dishwasher, that only removes the surface grime, not that which is impacted and over time you increase the potential for bacterial growth to occur.

Wood boards (including bamboo) are much better on your knives but to maintain them in good condition you need to properly maintain them.  Periodically, when they look dry (kind of like chapped skin) you need to oil them with mineral oil.  The mineral oil you buy at your local drugstore or grocery store pharmacy is fine, no need to buy fancy "block oil" in gourmet shops.  Don't use vegetable based oils as they will go rancid and transfer the flavor to your food.  I like to give the cutting board a heavy coating at night, let it soak in overnight, and then buff off anything that didn't soak in.  This will keep your wood fibers soft and supple so that the board won't split and crack, the fibers will swell back together making it more "self-healing" as you cut on it, and the oil in the wood will repel liquids that would otherwise try to soak in.  When a wooden board gets marred and nicked up you just need to take it to the garage and give it a good sanding before dusting off, rinsing and re-oiling.

Don't use bleach on boards (plastic or otherwise) as it will typically leave a distinct smell in the board.

A: You've stated that you're not washing the rice.  That's the reason this is happening.

Water boils over because of starch.  Many types of rice (brown rice included) can be very starchy, and this could conceivably cause the water to boil over depending on the amount of rice/water and the size of the pan (or rice cooker).

Washing the rice also helps to prevent the grains from sticking together, so you would want to do this anyway (unless you are actually trying to make sticky rice).

It's very simple to wash the rice; just keep adding and straining out cold water until the water runs clear.  You'll probably be surprised at how much starch actually washes off.  If you do this, your water should stop boiling over - regardless of temperature.

A: There are a variety of tips for quickly softening hardened brown sugar here: 10 Ways to Soften Hard Brown Sugar.

The one that worked best for me personally, when I had to do this in a hurry, was to chip off a large chunk of the hardened sugar, put it in a (microwave-safe) Ziploc bag with a damp paper towel, and microwave it for 5-10 seconds at a time until it was soft enough to use.  Don't pierce the bag; the whole point is to allow the steam to re-hydrate the sugar.  But obviously don't leave it in the microwave for too long either, otherwise the bag will either melt from the heat or explode from the steam.  You should also let it cool for a minute or two between zaps; the sugar will continue to absorb moisture as long as the steam can't escape.

I also use the paper towel trick if I need to re-hydrate the sugar the day before.  Place a piece of wax paper on top of the sugar, then a damp paper towel on top, and seal it.  It'll be good as new the next day.  Don't leave the paper towel in there for too long though, otherwise it'll grow mold (doesn't seem like it should, but I personally witnessed it happen).  I like this method because it doesn't require me to waste any apples or bread, if I even have any around.

A: Everything @Cascabel says in her answer is correct--I wanted to elaborate on why it is true.

In order for a yeast raised bread to work, since the yeast generates the raising gas (carbon dioxide) slowly over time, it has to stay trapped for a long time.  This requires a good gluten network.   The gluten network is like little rubber balloons throughout the dough, and the yeast blow them up with their.... erm... exhalations :-)

It takes a lot of work to blow up all the metaphorical gluten balloons, but the yeast is a slow and patient worker--it is like the turtle, not the hare.  With patience you will get there.

Chemical leavenings like baking powder (or baking soda plus acid, which is what baking powder is) generate their gas quite quickly.  They are normally used in batters that are going to go into the oven as soon as they are assembled (the famous muffin method), so that gluten does not develop, giving them their charactaristic tender crumb, unlike yeast raised bread.

If you establish the gluten network for slow yeast raising to work:

- You don't need the baking powder very much--you can (within reasonable limits) wait for the yeast to produce as much leavening as you desire.

- You have created a tough gluten network that the chemical leaveners, which are like sprinters, cannot raise very effectively.  They just don't have the endurance to make it to the finish line.  It is counter productive to add them, especially as they add a characteristic bitter or "chemical" taste for some people, or if there is too much.

There are some cases where you will see a small amount of baking soda (not powder) added to a yeast raised bread. One of my favorite toasting breads is in this category.  The purpose of this baking soda is not to leaven, but rather to change the pH of the dough, making it less acidic, and facilitating browning of the crust.

As @Rumtscho has kindly pointed out is:  If you did mix yeast and baking powder and then...

- ... wait a short time, then the yeast won't contribute any leavening (it will not start leavening soon enough)

- ... wait a long time, the baking powder won't contribute any leavening (it will spend itself before the dough goes into the oven)

Bottom line:

Yeast raised breads are:

- Slower to create, as they require time for the yeast to work

- Have a yeasty flavor, which many people prize

- Require the gluten network of "balloons" to blow up, which lead to a chewy or toothsome bite to a greater or lesser extent

- Are not amenable to chemical leaveners which run out of oomph before the gluten network would be raised.

Chemically leavened quick breads are:

- Almost instant to rise--assemble the batter, and bake right away (with a few exceptions)

- No yeasty flavor

- No significant gluten network

- Much more tender crumb

- Some small risk of a chemical aftertaste if over leavened

A: Yes, of course you can keep flour in the freezer.  For whole wheat flour, which is susceptible to rancidity due to the fat from the whole grain being included, it is even recommended.

For white flour, according to the University of Nebraska Extension in Lancaster County (emphasis added):

  

For longer storage, keep white flours in the refrigerator in an
  airtight container. All-purpose and bread flour will keep up to two
  years at 40 F in your refrigerator, according to the Wheat Foods
  Council. They can be stored indefinitely in the
  freezer.

A: My understanding is:

- Over easy - yolk runny and some white runny

- Over medium - yolk still runny and white firm

- Over medium well - yolk not runny but still soft and white firm

- Over hard - yolk firm; break the yolk before flipping

Talk to the cook and ask them what to call a not runny yolk.

You could just have a cook that is not good with eggs.

Based on a comment there seems to be misunderstanding about talk to the cook. You don't ask the cook what it is called to argue with the customer. You ask the cook to know what to write on the ticket. If someone orders a not runny yolk what do I call it on the ticket. If someone orders a well done steak but with some pink you don't argue that is medium well.  Just turn in a ticket for medium well and scratch out the medium before you give the ticket to the customer.

A: America's Test Kitchen did a segment on digital kitchen scales. Their judging criteria were:

- Accuracy: Does the scale display the correct weight?

- Button usability: Are the buttons in an accessible location? Can they be pressed without too much force?

- Display visibility: Can you see the display when a large bowl is on the scale? Are the numbers large enough to read clearly?

- Easy to clean

- Stability: When you push the buttons, does the scale move?

To answer your specific questions:

- 

None of the 10 scales they tested were waterproof - it seems like that may be a rare feature.

- 

If you can detach the weighing platform from the rest of the scale, it will be easy to clean.

- 

They did not have problems with the tare button biasing the weight.

- 

A weighing platform separate from the main machine makes it easier to see the display and press the buttons, even when a large bowl is on the scale.

A: ok get a very sharp knife (straight blade)

- put the blade under water

- tap the blade on the counter to rid of excess water

- cut roll in half

- repeat the process on the two portions

make sure that you're using a long knife, and when you're cutting, don't seesaw, rather it should be one fluid motion

EDIT

or do it as the comment below says :P

A: That's most likely Jallab though not a quintessential Israeli drink it is part of the middle eastern cuisine.

  

Jallab (Arabic: جلاب / ALA-LC: jallāb) is a type of fruit syrup popular in the Middle East made from carob, dates, grape molasses and rose water. Jallab is very popular in Jordan, Syria, Palestine and Lebanon. It is made mainly of grape molasses, grenadine syrup, and rose water, then smoked with Arabic incense. It is usually sold with crushed ice and floating pine nuts and raisins.

A: Taste-wise there will be little to not difference in the result. Just be careful to use the proper ratio of garlic to salt (generally 3-to-1 salt to garlic powder).

A: Adding a starchy substance such as rice or noodles to boiling water increases the surface tension of the water. When it's just plain water boiling the surface tension of the water can't hold back the force of the steam rising and the bubbles burst. Starches increase this surface tension making the bubbles more elastic/pliable (essentially creating a foam), thus requiring more force for them to burst. This makes the bubbles last longer which allows them to build up and eventually boil over. 

It's more likely to occur with anything starchy like rice and pasta.

A lower temperature should help to control a boil over as it will allow the water to cool somewhat and slow the boil.

I'd assume that, from your quoted text, that if you use less water you're still imparting the same amount of starch making a thicker solution. More water would dilute this and bring it closer to normal water. In my own experience, small amounts of water allow lots of bubbles to form but nothing really boils over, it just splatters a bit. But reducing temperature and tilting the lid to let some air in has helped me in the past.

A: If Belgian food is anything like the Dutch food my Oma made, your best bet is to limit it to the dessert course and strike out in a different direction.  Even there, throwing in an extra pinch of salt and a little fresh ginger or cardamom powder may help liven it up for your friends.

One area where you'll both be happy: Mediterranean/Middle-Eastern fare.  If you pick a recipe with plenty of aromatic herbs and spices, and maybe yogurt, it'll have the rich flavors your friends are used to. However, they won't be the same dishes they have at home, so they can't compare unfavorably to their mom or auntie's cooking.  Flatbreads, kebabs, braised lamb, goat, yogurt sauces... these will be familiar elements, but by using Mediterranean or Middle-Eastern versions, you'll give them a taste of the exotic too.  

Using South or Central American cuisine will have similar results; dishes rich in pungent chilis, cumin,  and coriander will combine elements of comfort food with something new.  Indian chapatis and naan (flatbreads) are very similar to homemade tortillas.  It goes without saying that beef is to be avoided.  Depending on what part of India your guests are from, coconut milk and tamarind paste may be other familiar elements to play with.  

Portugal also has a fine tradition of spicy foods, including the Vin d'alho which Indian adapted into the now-familiar vindaloo.

If you don't feel comfortable with these cuisines, you might do Indian, but with a fusion twist.  I found that Saag Paneer with blocks of feta instead of paneer is absolutely divine.  Halloumi cheese might work well too.  In fact, I'd say it's better than the original dish.

A word on dietary restrictions:
Presumably you know your friends' dietary needs, but if they're bringing new acquaintances it is wise to give some thought to dietary restrictions.  Many Indians are Hindus, who do not eat beef, and another major fraction are Muslim.  Muslims follow a dietary law called halal, which is very similar to kosher law, and likewise excludes pork and animal blood.  It also excludes alcohol... which means a spicy tamarind-port pork marinade isn't viable. 
A sizable part of the Indian population is also vegetarian, so any meal should include a vegetarian entree.

A: I don't want to disappoint you, but the sad truth is that extra virgin olive oil is unsuitable for all the cooking methods you mention. When you heat any oil past its smoking point it starts to deteriorate and can even become dangerous. Olive oil, extra virgin in particular, has a lower smoking point than most other oils. In fact, you will be better off with an olive oil of lesser quality. Such an oil will have  been processed and thus purified, increasing its smoking point. 

You may think that butter is unhealthy, but at high temperatures it will actually withstand the heat better than extra virgin olive oil.  

Good oils for the purposes you mention are canola oil, sunflower oil, peanut oil, and grapeseed oil.

A: Tearing is NOT worth the extra effort, tested experimentally.

Others have explored the theoretical reasons behind this, so I decided to test it in real life.  I did this like so:

- Green leaf lettuce from the local CSA

- Cut one leaf with a sharp knife (stainless), and tore the second leaf carefully by hand (fast, clean tears)

- Pieces were both wrapped in moist paper towels and left out at room temperature

- Photographs were taken at 30 minute intervals

After 2 hours, the 2 leaves still look identical (picture below).

Cut (on the left), Torn (on the right):

Provisos: knife was sharp and leaves were fresh and kept moist.  A dull knife or more abusive handling of the leaves may yield bruising and faster browning.  I am currently repeating this on a longer time scale, and may attempt with a dressing.

Practical take-away from the experiment:

I have found that in real life, it doesn't matter how you divide your leaves, as long as you don't apply dressing before storing for a prolonged period.  The acidic dressing will wilt leaves and cause discoloration, and leading to a limp, soggy salad.  The experiment supports that neither method leads to unacceptable browning within a short timeframe.  In practice, I've only seen browning when lettuce is left overnight or longer, or when it is stored with dressing.  

Cook's Illustrated confirms this with their experiment to see if plastic lettuce knives are worth it. They found that: 

  

Though all lettuce began showing some browning on the ribs after 10 days, none showed any signs of browning on the cut or torn surfaces. After 12 days, the heads cut with metal knives showed faint signs of browning on these surfaces, and the lettuce cut with the plastic knife followed a day later. The torn lettuce was last to brown on its ruptured edges, starting to turn at 2 weeks.

Given that lettuce is browning on the ribs before it does on cut edges, the difference between cut and torn is no longer important.  You're only adding 20% to the time before browning appears on cut surfaces.  Most people will agree that after 2 weeks lettuce no longer has its full flavor. I have found that to get the freshest, best taste it should be eaten no more than 4 days after harvest. 

So, if there difference between cut and torn is insignificant, why cut rather than tear?

It's faster and more consistent, especially if you have good knife skills and a sharp knife. You can cut a head of romaine in under a minute by knife, versus several times this by hand.  You also don't have to worry about bruising leaves or making irregularly shaped pieces by accident, and you can choose to do large pieces or fine, fluffy shredded mixture.  In my time in professional kitchens, I came to rely on the knife as an extension of my body, and you should too.

A: Dried bay is sometimes left in, for example this herb mix from Schwartz includes bay leaves (at less than 3%).

Dried they can easily be crushed and added as a powder, but you don't often want a lot of dried bay as the flavour can be quite overpowering.

I only use fresh bay as I have a plant outside the kitchen door and it's evergreen. Fresh, I have been known to get them fine enough to leave them in, but it's much less effort to just use them whole, perhaps slightly folded or torn (without tearing them into pieces). To leave them in you really need to make a paste or of them, using a blender/food processor (except you generally wouldn't be using enough for them to blend well). Pieces of fresh bay leaf are rather tough and prone to getting stuck in teeth, but fresh bay has a better flavour than dried. 

Unlike many herbs, you don't have to put in any extra effort to prepare them for removal - they're tough and obvious, so no tying sprigs or little bags.

A: The skin is yellow probably because the chicken was fed with maize. 
Age and race of the chicken are a factor, too.

In Germany (and propably Europe) you can explicitly buy „Maishähnchen“ that is fed purely with maize. 

If you compare this with the standard grain (wheat) fed chicken you can see the distinctive difference in Color

A: You might consider a different approach - don't fry them.  Drop them (carefully) into a pot of boiling sauce instead.  They come out perfectly even, very tender, and more flavourful than frying.  Usually the sauce we're talking about is a sweet tomato-based sauce, but it could be anything that's reasonably thick (so that the meatballs don't just fall straight to the bottom).

This sounds counterintuitive to a lot of people - you might think it would be more likely to fall apart this way, but in practice it sets almost immediately because it's suspended and has a much more even heat distribution.  When frying, all of the heat comes from the bottom; it's the combination of pressure and weight (gravity) that makes it fall apart.

Perhaps you want the rougher, browned texture of pan-fried meatballs, and that's fine; but I thought I would mention this anyway because I can distinctly remember dozens of guests having come to the family home (this is a family recipe, after all) asking "how are you able to make the meatballs like that?"  So if you have a chance, just give it a try; you might be pleasantly surprised.

A: It is designed for the likes of hard cheeses, nutmeg, or zesting lemon and orange skin. As you mentioned,  a lot of what you want to grate or zest gets stuck between the puckers and it clogs easily.

I would really recommend getting a micro plane as it gives the same fine result without becoming clogged.

A: I don't think the issue here is dicing vs slicing the onions. The reason why the latter appears to present better in this answer is in my opinion because of the size relative to the other ingredients. In the left hand image, the diced onions are much smaller than the tomato and cucumber, whereas the sliced onion on the right is a closer match in size. This also explains why the onion sinks  in the left image - being smaller than the other ingredients, it can make it's way through the gaps more easily to the bottom.

This leads to an alternative solution: dice the other ingredients to match the size of the onion. Take for example a salad shirazi (a classic Persian salad):

As you can see, the onion is nice and evenly spread throughout the other ingredients (no sinking) and in my opinion presents rather well.

Also it's worth being aware that this is highly subjective. I personally find smaller chunks more attractive than bigger in general. I also find it improves the taste, as the ingredients blend better together while chewing and you experience the salad as more of a "whole". With bigger chunks, you tend to taste "all tomato" followed by "all cucumber" etc.

A: If the potatoes are the same in different packages, it's just marketing.

Some potatoes are better for baking, some for frying, some for mashing...

It mostly depends on the starch content.

See.

https://www.thekitchn.com/know-your-potato-which-variety-is-best-for-mashing-roasting-baking-178265

or

"Potatoes fall into two important categories that impact the outcome of your dish: starchy and waxy (plus a category that lies somewhere in between those two)."

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/types-of-potatoes_n_4877050

A: @Adam A is close -- it's not an issue of surface area on potency, it's an issue of damage to the garlic.  The 'strong' taste of garlic comes from a reaction as chemicals are released so they can mix (alliin and alliinase)

When you cook the garlic whole (as you would for roasted garlic), you will never get this reaction, as you'll break down the chemicals.  Also, the chemicals break down over long cooking, so even if you add a head of crushed garlic at the beginning of a batch of slow-cooked tomato sauce (4+ hrs), it's not going to have as strong a garlic flavor as adding a clove or two at the end.

One other way that the garlic prep can affect the taste is when you're sauteing, stir frying or other cooking over high heat -- larger bits can be cooked longer before they burn ... and burned garlic is bitter, acrid and will ruin any dish.  (if you burn garlic, stop immediately, trash everything, clean the pan, and start again -- there is no way to save it that I know)

A: A general reconstitution of milk with dried powder is 1/4 dry milk and 1 cup water to reconstitute milk.  So 2 tablespoons is 1/8 cup to 1/2 cup of water.

If you want to replace 2 tablespoons, replace 1/2 cup water with milk.  1 Tablespoon is 1/4 cup milk instead of water.

I have done this as a replacement for dried milk in bread many times with success.

A: There are several factors that make bread be "holey". First of all we must understand that those big holes are created by "balloons" of gluten filled with CO2 and alcohol made by yeasts. Those balloons can grow in 2 ways

- Yeast cells close to the balloon make CO2 or alcohol, and it's "poured" into the balloon, and it grows.

- The wall between 2 balloons gets broken, so a new balloon is made with the joining of the former two.

You would also get some bubbles with rye bread and bacteria, but the holes would be smaller. So I'll focus on wheat flour and yeasts.

So, some tips to maximize the size of the holes:

Please, note that those points are not independent. Thanks @rumtscho for pointing it out.

- 

Don't manipulate the dough too much.

Most breads have 2 fermentations:  one and . Do just one. The more you handle the dough, the higher chances to degas it by breaking bubbles and letting the gas get out of the dough.

- 

High hydration

With more water the dough will be less stiff, so bubbles will be able to extend more. Also, it will be easier for the yeasts to "find" their food: sugar, so they'll produce more CO2 and alcohol.

Some flours absorb more water than others. Using a flour with high absorption index might allow you

- 

Yeast + time

The more yeasts, the more gas will be made. But be aware not to add too much, or they'll run out of glucose. It's better to give them time to do their work.

- 

Use strong wheat flour

The more time dough is waiting to be risen, the more gluten will be destroyed by enzymes. So using flour with a lot of gluten (strong, high % proteins, a W value over 270) will help assuring a minimum of gluten will still exist after long fermentations.

- 

Oven spring 

Yeasts continue producing CO2 until they die at 60C/140F. Also, gasses expand with heat, so it will also help holes to grow a bit (if I remember well, up to 30%). But that grown will stop when dough gets baked and strengthens, and when crust begins to form. To retard this 2 tricks are used:

- 

Use steam  in the oven the fist 1/3 or 1/4 of baking time.

Steam will keep the "outer skin" of the bread humid, so it will prevent it from getting dry and forming the crust.

- 

Score the bread

Bread is slashed (those cuts made in its surface) to allow it to grow more easily. So inner bubbles will be able to grow more in the oven.

To allow heat enter in the dough from the bottom to up, bakers use stones in their ovens.

- 

Develop the gluten completely

Kneading is very important, so the gluten network will perfectly developed to retain all the CO2 and alcohol.

To get high hydration doughs, bakers make a normal hydration dough (approx. 66%) with all the flour, and then add the rest of water and knead a bit more to let it absorb it.

An example of a type of bread with big holes can be seen in this Spanish forum (sorry: it's a Spanish bread and I couldn't find it in English).

Ciabattas are also a good example of big holes bread.

Some tips to minimize the holes:

- 

Low hydration

As opposite to high hydration to get big alveolus. As low as 50%

- 

Degas the dough

Some artisan or home bakers press the dough with their hand to avoid having too big bubbles. For certain types of bread, professional bakers use rolls to make a thin one. It's called refinement, and might be made several times (maybe 5 during proofing).

- 

Weak flour.

With less gluten, the bubbles will break letting the gas go out of the dough.

- 

Underproof

Use a short fermentation time so yeasts won't be able to make too much CO2.

- 

Pierce the dough

So any excess of CO2 will leave through the holes, instead of getting kept inside the dough.

Also, to lower the production rate of the yeasts, you can also add a lot (really a lot) of salt, or a lot of sugar, or grease/oil.

As an example, a couple of breads (again in Spanish): Pan Candeal and Bollo Sevillano.

A: Dry rubs are one case that I can think of where dry is specifically necessary, so you can grind them up properly.

The main advantage to dry herbs is that they're available year round.  When you're dealing with winter dishes, dry herbs would've been the norm to have used at that time.

If you are going to substitute, you'll need to add more (typically about 3x as much, as the dry is usually more concentrated), and you'll want to add it late in the cooking process, while dry herbs are usually added early.

One exception to the rule is bay leaves -- you'll still need to add them early, and you'll want to reduce the number.

A: The best thing I've figured out about turning eggs is: do not do it too early. You need to wait for the cooked part of the egg to develop a strong texture before it will support its own weight. It's very difficult to turn a floppy, soft egg, where it's comparatively easy to flip an egg that has been cooked more completely on one side. I also use a relatively high heat, as this "crisps" the cooked surface. It also makes the egg more attractive.

The spatula you use can make a difference, also, though I believe this is minor. The spatula you want is a plastic one with a relatively thin, flexible blade. The really heavy spatulas tend to be too tall, in my experience, and push the egg rather than sneak under it.

A: How small was your onion dice?  if its too big it can stop the meat sticking together, so try and make it as small as possible.  did they hold together when you formed them?  You might try to press the balls together as firmly as possible, as if they are not formed tightly enough this can cause them to fall apart.  

Be wary of adding too much egg as well as if the mixture becomes too sloppy it won't hold together either.  I think 1 egg is plenty for 500g of meat, and perhaps too much especially if there is not any absorbent material to bind to the egg.  

You can try adding some breadcrumbs (couple of tablespoons) which when combined with the egg can help to 'glue' the meatballs together.  Fine tapioca can be an alternative to breadcrumbs as well.  I assume that adding flour might also help (not tried) but this might result in a raw flour taste in the meatballs, so might want to try that first before you serve it up to your guests.

I also try to put the meatballs in the hot oil then immediately give them a gentle toss to coat the outside of all the meatballs with oil as I find this helps to stop them sticking to the pan, which can result in them being torn apart when I try and turn them.

A: To get your butter up to room temperature faster, you can slice it into very small pieces or grate it with a cheese grater and then leave it out in a single layer. It will get where you want it in around 10 minutes that way.

You cookies taste better with room temperature butter because they have more air in them. When you mix the butter, sugar and eggs in your cookie recipe you're creating an emulsion of oil, proteins and air. Those little air pockets in the cookie dough then help the cookie puff up when it bakes. When the butter is melted all the way before you mix it in, this emulsion has much less air in it than it should, so your cookies' texture isn't as good.

A: It depends on what chorizo you're using. If you're using soft (i.e. uncooked) chorizo then no, you don't need to remove the skin, because it should cook with the sausage. If you are using the cured, ready to eat chorizo you should take the skin off as it will be tough.

This may well vary by brand, incidentally.

A: To increase flavor extraction (and this applies to ALL flavors, not just ginger):

- Simmer for a prolonged period (more time to extract flavor).

- Puree or finely mince the ginger, then strain it out with a fine chinois or cheesecloth. Smaller pieces allow water to more easily penetrate, and allows flavor compounds to be extracted more quickly

- Stir frequently; this greatly reduces the time you need to cook the ginger, by ensuring flavor compounds reach an equilibrium throughout the mixture, rather than being concentrated at the surface of the ginger pieces.

- Cook the same ginger multiple times with fresh water each time.  This will extract more flavor than doing one batch cooked 3x as long, and also more than cooking the same ginger with 3x as much water.  Each batch will be less flavorful, of course, but after 3-5 batches, you should have most of the flavor out.

- Reduce the ginger water after extraction to concentrate the flavor.  This will be especially helpful when combined with multiple batches. 

- Add alcohol to the water, as many flavor compounds are oils, and thus more soluble in alcohol than water.  This is excellent to combine with reduction, as the alcohol is easily evaporated.

All of these approaches are based both practice and the chemistry behind extractions, which is what you are doing here.

A: I do this everyday before I leave for work. I can't have really hot tea. So once my tea is ready: 

- I put it in a tea pan (a deep pan used to make tea). You can substitute with any other clean deep pan.

- Add cold water to the kitchen sink

- Stand the tea pan in the kitchen sink for 2-4 minutes

And I have the perfect temperature for my tea that suits me :)

You can always stand it in cold water for more or less time to suit you. And it does not affect the taste of the tea. I have tried to put the tea in the fridge before but it hasn't worked for me.

A: if you spoon a little of the frying oil over the top of the egg whilst it is cooking this will help to 'set' the top of the egg, making less likely to tear apart or break the yolk when you do flip it.  Also try and flip with the yolk near the bottom of the spatula so it has less distance to travel and will be less likely to break.

A: Have you tried straining the salsa? Put it in a coffee filter or in some cheesecloth in a sieve sitting over a bowl. Let drain until the salsa's the texture you want.

Q: Why stir sourdough only with wooden spoons?

When reading about sourdough (in german texts at least), they almost always say to stir it with a wooden spoon.

Why do they do that? Does metal or plastic somehow interfere with the sourdough?

Q: Is there any way to bring an egg to its natural state (not boiled) after you cook it?

This is probably a stupid question, but I'm curious now after I opened the refrigerator looking for eggs to make a cake and there was only one and it was cooked. Is there any way to undo that, whether at home or an industrial way?

Q: How do I safely caramelize honey without fully burning it?

Background:
I am going to make a bochetomel, which is a type of mead that utilizes partly caramelized honey to impart a smokey/slightly burnt taste to the finished product.
The honey I have bought for this was expensive local produce, and I would like to avoid ruining it!

Question(s):
What is the best way to go about caramelizing honey? If I were to make an uninformed attempt, I'd just whack it in a saucepan and gradually heat it...
Is there a better method? Is it worth adding a little water to help stop it burning?

Finally, how will I know when the honey is caramelized? I have heard rumors of a 'soft ball stage' of caramelization that is ideal for brewing... does anyone have any experience with this that can confirm this exists?

Q: Why use baking powder instead of yeast?

I am asking the converse of the question "Why use yeast instead of baking powder?"

For example, can banana bread be made with yeast instead of baking powder? It seems it would rise better, but perhaps people like baking powder because they like banana bread denser or wetter or something?

Q: Test if two foods are the same

I'm Italian, now living in the US for some months. 
As you may know we like pasta. I tried Barilla here, our best known pasta brand. Well.. the taste seems a little bit different to me. 
It is actually produced here and not imported, so it could be different. 
Looking at the Italian/US versions of the package there doesn't seem to be a big difference, except for the fact that the US version is enriched with vitamins (which shouldn't change the taste). 
To dig deeper into the question and avoid any other factor (cooking water, sauce, subjectivity) I want to bring a box back to Italy and run a test with a panel (10 friends basically). 

I would cook the same quantity of the same pasta shape of Barilla (ITA/USA) in the same pan (keeping them separated of course), so same water and same salt amount. Then same sauce (same quantity) for both. 
Suppose A is the Italian pasta and B is the US pasta. 

Now.. how should I give it to the participants? Same amount of A and B in a blind test and ask whether they are different or not? Maybe give to some participants A-A or B-B (always blind test). Or maybe give A first (which they already know, so not blind) and then give someone (blind this time) A or B again and ask which one they think it is.. 

Looking for suggestions. I want to be as scientific as possible. 
I also contacted Barilla, who claim the pasta is exactly the same.
Thanks

Q: Milk instead of water in bread

I was looking at mantou recipes (mantou is a fluffy Chinese bun), and the recipes were remarkably similar to bread except less proofing and using milk instead of water. If I were to make regular bread with milk instead of water, what would happen?

Q: How can I get cuts of beef I recognize when in Italy

Almost five years ago, my husband and I retired to the Abruzzo region of Italy from the U.S. I've made a lot of cooking adjustments, but beef cuts have me beaten. I want steaks and roasts. Research has helped very little. Dialect gets in the way in villages and I'm a long way from the closest large city, Roma. Photos are met with quizzical looks. The closest we have gotten is "girello", from the shoulder. I want top round, sirloin tip roasts, and NY strip, T-bone, and rib-eye steaks. The only time I sort of got what I wanted was when I recognized a piece of meat that resembled a filet, but it was huge and there was no "mignon" about it. It was good, but pretty expensive. I have seen few cuts with marbling, but a lot of stringy tendons. They don't seem to cut meat in the same direction I'm used to seeing. We have a good butcher who is willing but doesn't seem to be able to help. I welcome any suggestions as to how I can shop without being so frustrated. Thank you for any assistance.

Q: Why does KitchenAid recommend against using the Dough Hook on Speed 1?

KitchenAid's manual for the stand mixer contains several warnings not to use the dough hook on any speed other than 2. While lots of websites explain how high speeds can overheat the dough, what can go wrong at low speeds?

Q: Name of the alcoholic products of fermenting sugar and distilling mead, analogous to fermenting grapes to get wine and distilling wine to get brandy?

As I understand it

- Ferment grains and you get beer. Distill that beer and you get whiskey.

- Ferment grapes and you get wine. Distill that wine and you get brandy.

- Ferment sugar you get ???. Distill that and you get rum.

- Ferment honey and you get mead. Distill that and you get ???.

What are the names of the ??? pieces above? If they don't exist, why not?

Q: How can I tell if a broth carton with a twist cap is sealed?

Many companies offer broth in a box carton with a twist-off cap. In the US, these are usually 32 oz cartons but may be other sizes as well. Twisting the cap breaks a foil seal underneath, allowing one to pour the stock. There is no way to remove the cap without breaking the foil seal, meaning there is no way to know if the foil seal was intact before it was broken as part of opening the carton. There may be some external signs that the seal is not intact or the product is otherwise not fresh (leaking, bulging, etc), but how can I tell that the broth inside is safe to use?

Larger cartons sometimes have a flip-open top and one must pull up the foil seal separately. Smaller containers are usually in cans. Neither have this problem.

Example container from Swanson:

Image taken from Campbell's website

Q: Why are chickpeas not sold fresh, like other vegetables, but only canned or dried?

It seems that chickpeas are usually sold either canned (pre-cooked and stored in liquid) or in dried form.

Most other vegetables are also sold fresh and raw, like they are harvested. Is there a reason that chickpeas are not sold like this? Would they spoil too quickly? Or are they already dried when harvested?

Q: What is the result of extremely over-fermenting bread dough?

I left some dough to ferment in a 2L container in the fridge, got distracted by a hospitalization, and didn't remember it again until 6 weeks later.

The lid hadn't popped open and the dough looked and smelled fine, but the texture was very strange, wet, gooey, and not like anything I'd seen before.

I cooked a small amount and the result was nothing like bread, but more soft and rubbery, with a texture somewhat like jelly or Turkish delight (but not sweet or flavoured).

What is this interesting substance, does it have a name, and is there anything for which it can be used as an ingredient?

(I'm not worried about wasting it and throwing it away; I jut think it looks like it should be useful for making something I've never tried before.)

Q: How can I make my Ice Cream "creamier"?

My ice cream doesn't feel creamy enough. I got the recipe from Good Eats, and I can't tell if it's just the recipe or that I'm just not getting my "batter" cold enough before I try to make it. I let it chill overnight in the refrigerator, but it doesn't always come out of the machine looking like "soft serve" as he said on the show - it's usually a little thinner.

Recipe: http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/alton-brown/serious-vanilla-ice-cream-recipe/index.html

Q: Is there any difference between chopped and crushed garlic in cooking?

Often recipes say to chop garlic, but I usually cheat and just crush it as it's quicker. Is there any difference in doing this? Will it have much of an effect on the flavour of the dish?

Q: Why is sugar a wet ingredient?

The last time I checked, most sugar is really dry (unless it's something like brown sugar).  So why is it categorized as "wet"?

Q: How can you melt chocolate without it getting wet?

I've tried a (few times) to melt chocolate but am obviously doing something wrong:

- Put a pot of water onto the boil

- Place a metal bowl over the pot

- Put chocolate into the bowl 

- Wait for chocolate to go off!

(Obviously the steam is rising from the pot and going into the bowl)

What am I doing wrong?  I'm not against using the microwave, would that be a better way?

Q: What is a "roux" and what are its uses?

I've had excellent Macaroni and Cheese that I was told was made with a "roux."  What exactly is a roux, when is it used and what are the benefits of using it versus other cooking methods?

Q: How to make ice cream without a machine?

I recently made a poor-man's ice cream by making an egg custard and freezing it in the freezer in a metal bowl, stiring about every half hour. I was expecting it to freeze it 2 hours, but three hours later, it was too late, still not frozen solid and I went to bed.

The resulting ice cream was edible, but had more crystals than one might want.

What other techniques are there for freezing the ice cream short of buying an ice cream machine? Or can this recipe be improved?

This was the general recipe I was using.

Q: What is a substitute for mascarpone cheese?

I've found mascarpone cheese can be pricey. What would be a good (in taste and price) substitute?

Q: Is there any way to sous-vide without a machine

I live in an apartment and have limited space to store kitchen gadgets. I don't really like the idea of having a machine that is dedicated to one specific task.

I particularly want to get into using sous-vide as a cooking technique, but I don't really want to buy a machine specifically for this task.

Is there any way to get a similar cooking method? I know that there probably isn't a way to get the exact temperatures like you get with a sous-vide machine, but I'm looking for some kind of alternative.

Q: How can I make this antique ginger wine recipe using ingredients available today?

I have this old family ginger wine recipe, but some of the ingredients are hard to find or may not exist any more...

- Essence of Ginger 12mls

- Tincture of Capsicum 9mls

- Essence of Lemon 5mls

- Solution of Burnt Sugar 25mls

- 2 1/2 lb sugar

- 1 oz Tartaric Acid

- 5 quarts boiling water

Add mixture and sugar to boiling water.

WHEN COLD add tartaric acid.

I expect I can find the sugar and the water(!), but the rest I'm less sure about. Can anyone give some ideas as to how I could make tincture of capsicum, essence of ginger & lemon, and a solution of burnt sugar? Just in case it's different in other parts of the world, this recipe is British.

Q: Does microwaving destroy nutrients in food?

After answering this article, I did some research on microwaving killing vitamins and nutrients in food.

I very quickly learned that this is a touchy subject, even among nutritionists, and nobody (at least, nobody I saw) seems to have a "this is the science behind it and here is a definite answer" answer.  Some articles claim "there is no hard evidence" while others point to studies from Stanford and other respected institutions that back the "yes" answer.

Some quick articles with conflicting information, if you're only going to read one please read the first and last as they seem the most reputable to me:

- The Straight Dope: Scientists are not sure yet, but it's likely in some cases

- Microwaving can be like boiling, which kills nutrients

- Microwaving is the best way of cooking for preserving nutrients

- Microwaving hurts broccoli, but is good for potatoes

- Harvard: Microwaving may preserve nutrients, like Vitamin C

As an interesting note, the "use less water" idea, which most of us take as common sense when cooking vegetables, may also be under scrutiny.  From the Harvard article above:

  

But this is nutrition, and nothing in
  nutrition is simple. Italian
  researchers published results in 2008
  of an experiment comparing three
  cooking methods — boiling, steaming,
  and frying — and the effect they had
  on the nutritional content of
  broccoli, carrots, and zucchini.
  Boiling carrots actually increased
  their carotenoid content, while
  steaming and frying reduced it.
  Carotenoids are compounds like lutein,
  which may be good for the eyes, and
  beta carotene. One possible
  explanation is that it takes longer
  for vegetables to get tender when
  they’re steamed, so the extra cooking
  time results in more degradation of
  some nutrients and longer exposure to
  oxygen and light.

So, my questions are: Is microwaving known to kill nutrients in foods?  Is there a way to minimize this effect?  Can any nutritionists weigh in here with their experience, and ideally, the science behind their answers?  This has been a very confusing research path full of conflicting information, so all answers are appreciated.

Q: How to make extra crispy and crunchy breading like KFC?

I'm wondering how I would go about making extra crispy chicken breading like they do at many places like KFC and the like. Is there a certain ingredient that makes the breading like that?

Any assistance would be very much appreciated, and feel free to share any of your own recipes for crispy chicken breading if you have them. I'll be sure to put them to good use!

Thanks!

Q: What is the butter for in a jam recipe?

I made plum jam at the weekend. The recipe I had (from my Good Housekeeping cookbook) wanted me to simmer the plums in water, add sugar and a knob of butter, then boil until a set was reached. 

I realised too late that I was out of butter, so I quickly looked up another jam recipe online and discovered what seemed like a 50/50 split between recipes with and without the knob of butter. 

I made it without and it came out beautifully - clear, well-textured, lovely flavour. So what was the knob of butter meant to add?

Q: Does adding salt help water boil faster?

I've always heard adding salt to water makes it boil faster.  Is this true?  If so, why?  If not, why do people do it?

Q: How to warm plates before serving?

I realize that serving on warmed dishes is preferable to serving on cold/room temp dishes, so as not to leach the heat out of your freshly-cooked food. 

How can I warm my plates? 

I have two kinds of dishes: ceramic (cheapo from a department store) and Noritake china (circa 1955-60).

Neither says "oven safe" on the bottom, but would a warm oven do the trick? Or microwaving? Or a hot water bath?

I'm not sure how to achieve warmed plates, but I'm tired of eating cold fish.

Q: I need to quickly and safely thaw frozen ground beef, what are my options?

Since reading the answers to my question about defrosting meat on the counter I've been good about giving my meat time to defrost in the refrigerator. However, my plans for tonight have changed and I'd like to defrost some ground beef that is completely frozen for dinner this evening. What are my options to do so quickly and safely?

Q: What is meant by "cook until the oil separates" in Indian curry recipes?

A lot of Indian curry recipes have a step where you're told to cook an onion-tomato-spices mixture "until the oil separates". Despite having tried cooking such recipes a number of times already, I still haven't really figured out what is meant by this. I have several questions:

- How can I tell that the oil is separating? I'm never quite sure whether I'm seeing oil or water coming out of the mixture while it's cooking.

- How long on average do you need to cook the mixture until the oil separates?

- What causes the oil to separate? Is it simply that all the water has been cooked out of the mixture?

- Why do you need to let the oil separate?

Q: How do I press avocadoes to make avocado oil?

Avocado oil is expensive and I've been trying to figure out a solution to make my own. I'd love to make a press (I do woodworking) but I haven't found anything online.

Is there a way to extract avocado oil from avocadoes at home?

Q: Why doesn't mayonnaise taste like pure oil?

The mayonnaise I tried making myself today (first try ever) wasn't entirely bad but there was something off-putting to the taste too, as if eating a spoon of pure oil. Now if I had never had store-bought mayo I would think that's normal, considering that by far most of what goes into making mayo is pure oil. But I don't recall experiencing a similar off-putting taste in any store-bought mayonnaise, including the one I have in the fridge at the moment. So why is it that mayo (at least store-bought) doesn't seem to taste like pure oil?

My current hunch towards explaining this (after some Google'ing) is the following. Mayonnaise is an emulsion of a large amount of small drops of oil in a small amount of something watery (vinegar, lemon juice, …). The bigger the drops, the more the mayo still resembles pure oil, and hence tastes and feels like it in your mouth. Conversely, the smaller the drops, the less it resembles pure oil and (for some reason I don't understand) it tastes different or just gives a different mouth feel. Does that make sense? It would mean that next time I try to make mayonnaise I should whisk it more vigorously to get smaller drops of oil? Does that mean mayonnaise is better if you make it with a blender, as it's easier to get smaller drops?

I also considered it might be that I just don't like the taste of the oil I used ("salad oil", the fine print says it's "100% canola"). But I don't think that's it, considering that another store-bought mayo which I like is also made with canola oil (found the ingredient list online, the store-bought mayo I have in the fridge right now is another brand which vaguely says "vegetable oil" in the ingredient list).

Q: What is the criss-cross pattern on top of peanut butter cookies used for?

I've been making peanut butter cookies, but skipping the step of pressing the top of the cookie down with a fork.   What does this step do for the cookies?

Q: How does thermal shock affect pans made of different materials?

In another question, I had a little comment-discussion with TFD on the effect of shock cooling on pans. In a nutshell, I said that it is bad for the pan, and he said that especially if the pan is made of steel, it should have been at 500°C for the shocks to have consequences, not at candy cooking temperature. I think that if it happens often, even at low temperatures, the internal structure of the pan would be less even (because of microcracks, or maybe some difference in the crystalline structure of the metal), leading to hot spots.

I'd like to broaden the question a bit. I think we will all agree that big temperature shocks have bad consequences on metals (think forging). I think that smaller shocks will have some (but smaller consequences), but after TFD's comments I am not sure. Could please somebody with better knowledge about metals explain what happens in different combinations of following combinations: 

- Cooling method

- Immersion of the whole pan in cold water (as in, I have hot sugar syrup in it, and want to stop the heating immediately).

- Pouring a small amount of cold liquid into the empty hot pan (as in deglazing). 

- Pan material 

- Stainless steel 

- Aluminum 

- Sandwiched bottom 

- Coated (e. g. enamel, PTFE, ceramic) 

- Copper 

- Iron 

- Temperature difference (our cold water is in all cases in the range 5°C (fridge) - 15°C (tap)) 

- Steak/candy temperature (let's pick a range of 160°C - 200°C because of caramelisation and Leidenfrost)

- Hottest stove temperature (because I want to know about the extreme case. 400°C or 500° should do, the first because that's what I am sure have had on my stove, the second because TFD mentioned it). 

Let's assume not a single shock, but regular shocks (maybe two shocks a week over the lifetime of the pan). What will be the effects? And also, is there a combination which can (but will not always result in) crack a cast iron pan immediately?

Q: What is the purpose of using ping pong balls on top of a Sous Vide Bath?

I recently saw a picture of expert Douglas Baldwin with his sous vide equipment in this article.  One of his immersion circulator baths was covered with ping pong balls.

What is the purpose of covering the immersion circulator bath with ping pong balls?

Q: how do you get sushi rice to not stick to your hands?

I am laying out my sushi rice by forming it into a ball with my hands and spreading it on the nori. I watched some video tutorials on this, and it seems like the rice is not sticking to the chef's hands. How do you not get the rice to stick to your hands?

Q: What's the best way to store rice long-term?

I have purchased a rather large bag of long-grain white rice (25 lbs.) and need to know the best way for storing it long-term. This rice will be used as both a food-storage food source and as my everyday source of rice for cooking, so the storage solution should (hopefully) be resealable, rather than once-it's-open-it's-open. I eat rice maybe three times a month, so it isn't really "everyday" but it will be my go-to when I have it.

Q: Can one preserve food by periodically heating it?

I get that keeping food temperature low will slow down chemical reactions and preserve food, but sometimes my sister preserves food by heating it every 6 hours or so (up to 1-2 days). Does this help preserving the food? If yes, how does it work?

If it matters, the food currently in question is this one, but I would appreciate a general explanation. In case anyone is wondering, she doesn't store it in the fridge because it is full.

Q: Why add pasta water to pasta sauce?

I've noticed that many Italian chefs add to their pasta sauces some of the water they used to cook their pasta.  What is the purpose of this?

Q: What's that scum at the sides of my home-made burger when I cook it?

When I do home-made burgers, my mix is as follows:

- ground beef

- bread-crumbs or grated potatoe

- egg

- parmezan cheese

- salt, pepper, sweek paprika

- dijon mustard

- a bit of olive oil

- sometimes pieces of ham and some other cheese

- sauteed onion and garlic

I take a handful, make a patty and drop it in a hot skillet. In time, I see some gray scum coming mostly from the sides of the patty (which I dutifully separate with a spoon).
At the end, the burger's texture is pleasant, so...

- What is this scum?

- Am I doing something wrong?

thanks!

Q: How do I prevent coconut milk from separating in Thai curry?

It seems like every single attempt I've made at making a Thai-style coconut curry ends up with the sauce mixture separating. Although it usually still tastes good, the coconut ends up looking like it has curdled.

My question is what could I be doing wrong?  I've mainly been following the recipe on the side of the curry paste I have (Thai Kitchens brand, IIRC). 

- Stir some of the paste with a can of coconut milk (I've been using Chao Koh) until that boils.

- Add some fish sauce and chicken broth along with the meat and vegetables

- Simmer until cooked.

My suspicion is I may be using too much chicken stock. I usually use about 1-2 cups. The vegetables I add(typically bell peppers and onions) will also contribute additional liquid to the curry.

My family and I love this dish, but I would really like to perfect its preparation. What steps can I take to prevent the coconut milk from separating from the curry?

Q: What temperatures do low-medium-high on the stove correspond to?

I'm quite suspicious that my electric stove runs hot.  Recipes that suggest medium-high on my stove are incredibly, incredibly hot and you can feel 'high' radiating heat from across the kitchen.

As such, I've semi-recently purchased an IR thermometer - what pan surface temperature should low, medium-low,medium,medium-high, and high approximately register as?

Q: Why did butternut squash make my fingers dry and yellow?

Last weekend I made butternut squash soup. In an experiment to get more of the squash browned I peeled two medium squash and cut them into 2 inch chunks, rather than just halving it, before roasting in the oven. (Result of the experiment was OK, but the extra exposed area also allows more moisture to escape, so I wouldn't recommend this method.)

Halfway through peeling the 2nd squash I noticed that the fingers on my left hand (I'm right-handed) were getting yellow and that the skin was drying, cracking, and tightening up. The yellow I can understand as transfer since I was using that hand to hold the squash while peeling. But I've peeled butternut plenty of times for various recipes and this hasn't happened before. Washing my hands didn't help. The problem went away after a couple of days.

Does anyone want to venture an explanation? Did my fingers O.D. on carotene or potassium?

Q: How can I create steam in a normal oven to promote bread oven spring?

Oven spring and a crisp crust on bread are largely due to high heat and high humidity.  Commercial bakery ovens have steam injectors.  How can I replicate this high humidity environment in my home oven?  I've tried spritzing and ice cubes and neither really work.  Pouring hot water in a hot pan is better but is still severely lacking.  

Is there a way the home baker can replicate with without laying out a lot of money for a commercial oven?

Q: Can you re-use parchment paper when baking batches of cookies?

I just finished making cookies. The dough was enough to make multiple batches. I only have one baking sheet. Every time a batch was ready, I used new parchment paper on the baking sheet. Is this necessary or could I just re-use the same piece of paper till all my cookies are baked?

Q: Shaken, not stirred...but why?

Most people are probably familiar with the line from James Bond, "Vodka Martini, shaken not stirred." What I have never figured out is "why would it make a difference?"

I have tried making martinis both ways and perhaps I don't appreciate the subtleties of a fine martini to notice the difference, but I don't.

What difference does it make between shaking and stirring a martini and how is that difference (if any) created?

Q: What is the purpose of sugar in baking plain bread?

My recipe says 1 tablespoon of sugar per loaf. 

This seems like too small an amount for flavor. 

The recipe is as follows:

- 3 cups flour

- 1 teaspoon salt

- 2 teaspoons active-dry yeast

- 1 tablespoon sugar

- 2 tablespoons oil

- 1 cup water

- knead, wait 1 hr, knead again, wait 1.25 hr, bake for 30min @ 350

Is this for flavor, or is there another purpose?

Q: Egg yolks vs Whole eggs

I'm about to make cinnamon rolls & one recipe calls for 2 whole eggs. The other recipe calls for 3 egg yolks. Which one will give me a moist, soft, cinnamon roll?

Q: How can I grind coffee without a coffee grinder?

I usually buy prepackaged ground coffee for my drip coffee maker, but recently I accidentally bought a bag of whole bean coffee and threw away the receipt.

Can I salvage this bag of coffee without purchasing a coffee grinder?

I have seen the suggestion of using a blender or perhaps a food processor, but I don't own those either.

Are there other ways to grind these coffee beans that will provide acceptable quality?

Q: Is there evidence that adding salt to water prior to boiling can damage a stainless steel pan?

In the context of boiling water for pasta or other purposes, all over the Internet the advise is oft-repeated that salt should not be added to the water when it is cold in order to prevent damage to the pot such as pitting over long term use.  The reasoning is that the salt stays on the bottom of the pot for longer without dissolving, and has a chance to interact with the surface metal.

Is there any objective evidence--preferably scientifically based--that this phenomenon actually occurs in practical kitchen-type conditions, or is this another piece of common wisdom that is often shared but not backed by evidence, much like now debunked common wisdom that it is necessary to use very large volumes of water to cook pasta?

Q: Are cooked shrimp shells edible?

Some Chinese shrimp dishes like the spicy garlic shrimp is served with the shell still on but head removed.  Since the shell was on during cooking, the seasoning is all over it.

Are you supposed to eat the whole shrimp with the shell, or remove the shell and only eat the meat?  I usually taste the seasoning on the shell and then peel it away to eat the meat only.

Q: My seitan is horrible

I have no trouble preparing the seitan dough, or at least, that is what troubles me the least and can be fixed easily. However, I can't get the texture right. I don't use yeast, just vital wheat gluten and flavor adders.

First I tried with the simmering method. I put a broth to a boil and dropped in small loafs of seitan. As they cooked, they grew bigger and bigger, as they absorbed water. The loafs grew a ridiculous amount, and I was consequently left with loafs made of water and seitan, in that order.

I thought maybe water was the problem, so I tried instead of simmering it, baking it; like some online recipes indicate. I made a seitan tube and wrapped it (rather mediocrely) in aluminium foil and put in the oven. I had preheated the oven to 190 °C. The recipe I used instructed to bake the seitan for 90 minutes, and so I tried. However, about 60 minutes into the cooking, my loaf exploded in the oven (the wrap wasn't strong enough, I recon, although it was a few layers thick). To my surprise, the seitan already had a thick hard crust, and it was quite inedible to my taste.

What recommendations do you have for me? Is there something I have done wrong in each of my attempts? (Is blaming the great growth of my seitan on water wrong, on the first method I tried?) And finally, I am left to wonder: is it really necessary to precook seitan? (Why?)

Thanks a lot chefs! I know practice makes perfect but I'd rather quit wasting ingredients until my ways are right.

Q: Why can't this ice cream scoop go in the dishwasher?

I have an ice cream scoop that is labeled with something like:

  

Do not immerse in water hotter than 140 &deg;F / 60 &deg;C. Do not wash this item in the dishwasher.

What is the real reason for these warnings? I have found mentions of things like:

- Hot water will "dry out" the chemicals inside. (What chemicals? Why are they there? How would temperature affect them exactly?)

- The finish on the scoop may change appearance and may rub off during later use. (Is this due to the hot water? Detergent? Bleach?)

I have a scoop that has accidentally gone through the dishwasher a couple of times without apparent ill effect. Is there now something deficient about my scoop? Is it not being as effective as it was when it was new due to the lack of some mysterious chemicals? Is the finish now coming off into my ice cream even if I can't see it? Is there any health or safety risk due to this?

The scoop is metal. Probably aluminium. Looks like this but not so shiny (don't recall whether it ever was):

Q: Can I leave uncooked rice sitting in water for an hour or longer before cooking?

I'm prepping for a dinner party. And I put uncooked long grain brown rice + oil + water in a pot, as usual. But I'm not cooking it right this minute. The rice is sitting in the pot with the water. Can I leave it as is for an hour or two before cooking? Or will that sog the grains and affect the result?

Q: How do I practice piping icing without wasting icing and money?

Is there some cheaper alternative to real icing so I can avoid wasting good icing and money while practicing? Or can I avoid having to throw the practice icing away? I do not want to waste good butter just to practice my piping skills =)

Q: Why is expired frozen chicken safe to eat?

It seems to be a widely held belief that that freezing chicken, and then defrosting, cooking, and eating it much later (well past the expiration date) is a perfectly fine thing to do.

What makes it safe? And are there any food safety hazards to watch out for when doing this?

Q: What's the most effective way to mix a jar of natural peanut butter?

When you buy a jar of natural peanut butter, it typically has a layer of oil on top, which has separated:

Mixing it can be messy and time consuming.

Aside from slowly and patiently mixing it with a knife, are there any tips and tricks to make this job faster, and  without spilling?

Q: Why might packaged pineapple contain egg, soy, peanut, fish, milk, sulphites, tree nuts, sesame, crustaceans, shellfish, mustard seeds, wheat?

Here is the proof:

I'm a bit scared to eat it. What do they do to it?!

Q: What is the difference between expensive wine and regular wine?

It's fairly known at most supermarkets and stores you can get regular, cheap wine.  However, at some stores who dedicate themselves solely to liquor and spirits, they sell incredibly expensive wine, even up to $2k from where I've been.

As someone who has tried a bit of wine and not quite fond of the taste, I'm mainly curious if there really is any difference to expensive wine as opposed to store bought, "cheap" wine.  Is there a vast, noticable difference between the two? Is the only reason I would pay more for the age of the wine or how rare it is? 

One of my relatives who drinks lots of wine told me that there's relatively no difference between expensive and regular; it's noticable after your first glass, but after subsequent glasses it starts to taste the same. Is this true?

Q: Onion and Garlic, a no-no?

I had an Italian flatmate once who was on the brink of lynching me when he saw I used garlic and onion in one dish. He said that - at least in Italian cuisine - thats an absolute no-no. You can use both, but never together. 

Especially with something like Spinach, I think that combination is quite nice though. Is this an Italian kitchen "rule", a general thing, or was he just misinformed?

Q: Blown sugar globe with smoke enclosed inside - is it a plausible candy to make?

There is a candy called "smoke sugar", that was made by a character in a story - it was a bubble of blown sugar, with a breath of hickory smoke in the center.  The ingredients as listed were powdered sugar, grape acid (equivalent to citric or tartaric acid), and hickory wood for the smoke, and probably water as an unlisted ingredient.

I was wondering how realistic this candy is, especially to be made by a home cook.  I did some research into making sugar-glass, which is made by heating sugar and water, and a small amount of acid to make a candy with.  I also saw that blown sugar bubbles are sometimes used decoratively.  I'm less sure if sugar-blowing requires special equipment to keep the molten sugar at the right temperature, or tools work with it without burning anything - or how dangerous it might be, with a possibility of inhaling the molten sugar.  Perhaps the blown sugar globes I saw pictures of are made by commercial kitchens, or at least high-skill enthusiasts, who might have the necessary equipment and skill to make it safely.

I am also uncertain about the feasibility of adding the hickory smoke to the center.  It seems to me that keeping the sugar-glass at workable temperatures for blowing globes with would be tricky enough without also trying to produce, and catch, hickory smoke to enclose in the bubble.  I'm picturing using a mouthful of smoke to blow the breath that expands the globe (drawn into the mouth similarly to cigarette smoke, perhaps?), since the globe would have to be sealed off while still hot.  But perhaps there's a better way?

Of course, the story character had pyromancy to keep the sugar at the right temperature, and control the smoking of the hickory wood, and tolerance to very high temperatures to keep from burning himself.  But is this kind of candy possible for someone lacking these advantages?

I will likely cheat a bit to make something similar but easier by adding a drop of liquid smoke to regular sugar-glass for the flavor profile, to satisfy my curiosity.  But I was wondering about the feasibility of the recipe technique as described in the story.

Q: How to grill without an actual grill

Clarification: The term "grill" is used here with the US-based term for grilling, which may differ from other countries such as Great Britain and Australia, where it is typically called a "barbecue"; Ideally it is a direct flame against one side of the food at a time, though other heat sources are not out of scope.

I live in an apartment complex where it is hugely impractical (if not impossible) to own a full-size grill. Despite this, I really want the ability to grill small amounts of meat and vegetables without too much hassle. Two possible solutions occurred to me, but I'm not sure which would be better or if there's a third option I'm unaware of:

- 

Portable propane grill (camping stove) - I don't know how practical this would be, but the ability to fold it up and store it would be nice. Do these work as well as a normal propane grill?

- 

Cast iron grill pan - I've seen many of these online that basically just sit on a stove burner and allegedly emulate a regular grill. I'm skeptical because the lack of a direct flame seems like it would affect the outcome.

Are either of those actually good options? Is there a better way that I haven't thought of? I know there are also miniature charcoal grills but they don't seem to be nearly as portable or space efficient as the other two.*

Edit: Advice in the answers/comments has led me to order a smokeless stovetop grill, because they're so cheap and allegedly pretty good there's no reason not to try it out. This is the one I decided on. In a couple days it should be here and I'll give it a thorough test and report back.

Keep the advice coming! It seems there are several other good options, so I want to float as many of them as possible for future viewers to reference.

* As for an outdoor solution: it's somewhat restricted in my area, you're allowed to have them but they must remain unconnected to a fuel source if they're within 25' of the building. That's one big reason I'm interested in indoor solutions, though I can compromise if a charcoal option seems like the way to go.

Conclusion: The stovetop smokeless grill worked out great. It's not a perfect replacement for a real grill but for such a cheap pricepoint and for its ease of use, it provides very satisfying results. The only things you need to watch out for are the fact that it doesn't cook evenly, so you have to rotate your food at least once, and it doesn't burn away oil and fats like a normal grill, though it does drain a fair amount of them; basically just go very light on the oil or you'll end up with a greasy mess.

Thanks for the suggestions, everyone!

Q: Cleaning out coffee pots and thermoses

Is there a commonly available cleaning solution I can use for coffee pots and infuser thermoses for coffee and tea?

I have a number of these that are starting to show coffee stains and particle buildup from coffee and tea. For coffee pots (back when I worked in restaurants in my youth), we had a white powder that worked well, but I have no idea what it actually is. I've bought "coffee pot cleaner powder" online, but it's just dishwasher detergent, and it leaves a slimy, soapy residue that takes a lot of blasting with scalding hot water to fully clean out the slime and taste. This is easy for coffee pots, but would ruin my thermoses and contigo mugs.

Is there an easy to use cleaner available to consumers for cleaning out glassware that isn't just rebranded dishwasher detergent?

Thank you.

Q: I used olive oil to finish my salad serving utensils - now what?

I recently received some homemade unfinished wood salad serving utensils as a gift, and like a dummy, I figured it would be safe to rub them down with some olive oil. Now, I've learned that since olive oil turns rancid, this was probably not a good idea.

What should I do now? Is there any way to remove the olive oil from the wood (so that it can be replaced with food-grade mineral oil, I suppose) that won't damage the wood and will be safe for food utensils long-term?

Ideas I've seen:

- Scrub with hot water and soap - food-safe, but makes me nervous about damaging the wood, and maybe not actually that good at getting oil out of wood pores?

- Mineral spirits - doesn't require scrubbing, but makes me nervous about toxicity

- Random home remedies involving vinegar, salt, lemon juice, baking soda, etc. - makes me very nervous about damaging the wood [edit: of course foods can safely touch food utensils; it's just that I assume that such things would be low potency and thus require a lot of scrubbing, and more abrasive elements like baking soda might not be great for wood fibers]

If any of the above are actually good ideas, I'm still interested in hearing that, as long as you can tell me that the thing I'm nervous about isn't a problem.

Q: Keep milk (or milk alternative) for a day without a fridge

I like to drink my coffee with milk, but my new place of work has no refrigerator I can use. Is there any milk or milk-substitute I can use that will not taste funny around 15 o'clock, when I remove it from my home fridge at 8?

What if I buy 1L of long-lasting milk and bring in ca 100ml in a airtight container a day for coffee, will that be OK?
Maybe a substitute like almond, soy, rice or oatmilk will keep better? Will it taste good? 
Another option I can see is powder milk, but that does seems like a hassle.

Bonus points for minimal amount of waste.

Q: Where do you want 90% lean beef?

The burger recipes I've found online called for rather fatty ground beef, like 80% or 73%. (Spruce eats: 15 - 20% fat), Smoked BBQ source: 15 - 20% fat, Taste of Home: 20 - 40% fat (sic!), Spoon university: 20 - 30% fat, The Kitchn: 20% fat, Serious Eats: at least 20% fat, Steve Raichlen: 20% fat.) I didn't pay attention and bought some 90% lean beef.  I guess the burgers will still work out, but it got me thinking.

If everybody says you need fatty ground beef for flavor, in what kind of recipes do you actually want these 90+% ground beefs, and why?

Q: Cracked oven proof dish - trying to understand the physics of what went wrong

I was baking bread for the first time in years the other day, and the instructions said put a baking tray full of water in the bottom of the oven. I didn't have a metal baking tray, so I put a ceramic ovenproof dish in the oven, and let it warm up. Then I boiled a kettle and poured it into the dish. DISASTER! The dish cracked immediately, spilling water into the bottom of the oven.

Obviously this was a dumb mistake. Next time I'll use a deep metal baking tray etc.

However, I'm trying to understand why this happened, because when I make a stupid mistake I like to fully understand what went wrong. I wouldn't have thought the temperature differential between the ceramic dish and the boiling water was sufficient to cause the sort of rapid expansion that would cause this to happen.

Any insights?

Q: Dispensing fair shares of inhomogeneous soup

I love noodle soup and doling out bowl after bowl of it, but I have noticed that ingredients are not evenly distributed between bowls. However I have noticed that the bowls, even when filled to the same level, contain different quantities of solid ingredients, potentially very different quantities of noodles, solid ingredients, garnish and liquid! With long noodles this is exacerbated by the tendency of the noodles to come out together and it is particularly difficult to ensure that subsequent servings have similar distribution to initial ones.

As this issue is visible to the naked eye I imagine that only the tip of the iceberg is being observed and there is much more unobserved unevenness.

How can I effectively dispense roughly even compositions of home served noodle soup with solid ingredients into multiple bowls a) served at the same time or b) in sequence?

Things I have tried:

- Google searches for fair serving noodle soup - nothing relevant found

- Cut or break the noodles into much smaller pieces - this reduces the
clumping issue for noodles and puts them in the same class as other
solid ingredients but sometimes one wants long noodles

- Zig-zag over
the bowls adding a little bit at a time - this is time consuming and
particularly susceptible to clumping effects

Q: Why is Diamond Crystal most usually recommended for kosher salt?

In a number of recipes, I see Diamond Crystal recommended as the kosher salt to use.

Where I live, only Morton's is available.

Is there some superior quality to Diamond Crystal kosher salt that I might not get out of another brand?

Q: What do American chefs mean by "Red pepper flakes"?

I see the term "Red pepper flakes" used often by American chefs, but to the European mind this term is very confusing. It could mean flaked and dried:

- Red chilli (e.g. Kashmiri, Birds Eye etc.)

- Red pepper (Capsicum)

- Red pepper (Jalapeno)

- Other pepper variety (e.g. Aleppo, Spanish, Turkish etc.)

What exactly is meant by this term? Does it have a unique taste profile? Also, if the ingredient is difficult to source over here, what would be a good substitute?

(There is a generic US/UK/EU comparison for red pepper at Translating cooking terms between US / UK / AU / CA / NZ but this doesn't adequately cover some usage/recipe contexts. Revisiting one specific recipe, I realise now the chef probably meant Turkish/Aleppo pepper as the dish was Turkish/Moroccan in origin.)

Q: Is the foam on pasta water significantly more starchy than the rest of the water?

Often while cooking pasta I will take out some pasta water to incorporate into my sauce. The purpose is to transfer starches into the sauce to thicken and bind it.

Is it better to repeatedly skim the foam that typically forms on top of the pasta water for this purpose (assuming it is more starchy), or does it not make a difference?

Q: Why turn on the oven at the start of a recipe?

I have noticed that many recipes say to turn on the oven as one of the first instructions, even though there may be half an hour or more of preparation before the dish is actually placed in the oven.

This seems wasteful to me, and I usually wait to turn on the oven so that it will come up to temperature more or less at the same time the dish is ready to go in.

Am I doing it wrong?  Is there some actual reasoning for turning on the oven so early?

(I'm aware that some people recommend a long preheat for pizza.)

Q: Why is my gooseberry jam so stiff?

I attempted making jam for the first time, using wild gooseberries and blueberries that I have on my property. My thermometer never showed a temperature higher than 217F, yet my jam is very stiff. It is not as loose as I would like it. I followed directions and did the cold plate trick, which seemed to be accurate. Why is it gelatinous? I didn't use pectin.

Q: Best chopping board material for meat

I've heard that using a wooden chopping board for cutting meat is not very hygienic as it is a porous material. If that is the case, then what would a chopping board ideally be made out of when chopping meat?

Q: What herbs and spices are in "Italian Seasoning"?

I'm beginning to grow my own herbs and would like to put together something similar to the "Italian Seasoning" found in the grocery store spice section.  (It's an easy way to add more flavor to pasta sauce.)

Is there a commonly accepted list of ingredients and proportions, or does it vary between the spice companies?

Q: Apple pie: peel or not?

Is it okay to leave the skin on the apples when making an apple pie? I'd like to leave them on, but I wonder if there will be chewy strings of peel or if they will cook tender.

Q: Should tomatoes be stored in the fridge?

Storing tomatoes in the fridge tends to make them last a bit longer, but I've heard that the flavor is negatively affected. What is the best way to store them?

Q: Expiration Date on Milk

What does the expiration date on milk cartons mean? 

I have different experiences with the date: 

- There is still about a week before the expiration date but the milk has gone bad 

- It is 1-2 days after the expiration date but the milk doesn't smell or taste bad

In both case, the milk was kept in the fridge.

Q: How can I remove the peel and pit of an avocado without the whole thing turning into mush?

Making solid pieces out of a ripe avocado is a difficult business (for me, anyway). What is the best way to remove the peel and pit without ending up with a pile of green mush? I can sometimes remove the peel without too much difficulty, but that pit always gives me grief.

Q: How long does cooked pasta last in the fridge?

I sometimes cook more pasta than I intend to eat or use at once and store the rest in a container in the fridge (just plain, cooked pasta). How long would it store safely for?

Q: What is ground beef?

I keep hearing about Ground Beef, but I'm from Australia and I've never actually seen it before.

Is it the same thing as Minced Beef? Or different? Is Minced beef an acceptible substitute if they're not the same thing?

Q: How do you raise your dough in cold seasons?

It is winter down here in Australia and I find it challenging to find a warm spot to raise my bread dough. What I have been doing is placing the dough in the oven (not switched on) with a pot of hot water, replacing it once or twice. The oven becomes a warm and moist environment for the yeast to do its magic. 

What other alternative spots are there to raise the dough in cold seasons?

Q: Flavour combinations - structural analysis

Without neccesarily going into molecular cooking (although we could): does any literature / website / theory provide information on flavor / flavour combinations that go well together?

(ignoring texture at this time: I'm sure it's a contributing factor)

The palate 'likes' certain combinations of sweet, salty, fatty, etc., sure. And certain complex flavours are found in many different recipes - a result of tradition and empirical succes. 

Examples:

- tomatoes, mozzarella, basil (generally: tomatoes and green herbs)

- soy / ginger

- carrots / celery (baked, often with bacon or a meat)

- strawberries / cream

etc. etc. etc.

The dream answer to this question would be some sort of map, visually grouping things, but that may not be possible in 2d.

Q: Are Chives and Green Onions the same thing?

Is it OK to substitute one for the other?

Q: Cure for burns from hot peppers / capsicum oil?

So, I foolishly ignored advice about wearing gloves while handling hot peppers. I thought since they were "just" anaheim peppers I'd be fine... I was wrong, and I repent. 

Does anyone know of a way to stop the burning? I have washed my hands repeatedly with soap in hot water and tried OTC burn spray.

I'm really worried about getting it off b/c I have a little baby & I don't want to get it on her, too. Can the oil transfer to someone else still?

Q: Ideal coffee grind for a French Press?

I recently picked up this Bodum "French Press" style coffee maker and so far, I'm really enjoying it for its simplicity. But I'm curious how I should be grinding my coffee.

When I bought it, I grabbed a bag of pre-ground coffee at the grocery store and this worked well. But recently, I bought a can of beans and put it thru the coffee grinder at the store and I may have chose too coarse a grind as I seem to be getting very weak cups of coffee now.

The manual said pick a "coarse" grind, so it turned the dial all the way to the left labeled "coarse". I'm thinking it should have been somewhere in the middle, like "Percolate".

Any advice on the optimal grind?

EDIT: Also, What ratio of Tbsp to oz of water? (or grams to ml, if you prefer metric.)

Q: Can raw eggs be frozen?

If raw eggs are nearing their expiry date, can they be preserved in the freezer? Would there be any issues with them after taking them out of the freezer?

Q: What factors lead to rich crema on espresso?

I love espresso, especially when it has a rich crema (the head that forms on top of a well made shot). I notice that some cafes produce this consistently while others never have more than a wisp on top. Which of the many factors that go in to pulling good espresso shots specifically contribute to the crema?

Q: Pizza baking order

First few times I thought it was coincidence but now I'm puzzled. I'm baking two pizzas, one after another, made from the same dough and with the same ingredients. Every time, the second pizza base is much better: thinner crust, more elastic, you know, closer to perfect pizza.

I have two pans and I tried them in a different order, same result. Only difference is that the second pizza gets 15 minutes more dough raising, but raising 3 hours or 3 hours and 15 minutes shouldn't make such a difference.

Any idea what is happening?

Q: How long should I keep a cut onion?

Since I only cook for one or two, I will tend to buy an onion and only use part of it, and then keep the rest in the fridge. Sometimes it will be a while before I use the rest. Is there any guidance on when I should finally just throw it out? What are the signs to look for? What degradations should I expect to trade off against constantly throwing out half an onion (decreased flavor, increased bitterness)?

Q: Keeping Hot Sauce From Separating

Last fall I tried my hand at making a homemade hot sauce. Essentially: roast peppers, blend with vinegar, garlic, salt and other spices, put in jar for three weeks, strain and you have hot sauce. 

The sauce was great, but after about a week of sitting in a jar in my fridge it separated and became rather unsightly. Of course, after shaking it up it returned to normal. Is there a way to keep a sauce like this from separating?

Thanks!

Q: When cooking pasta in salted water how much of the salt is absorbed?

Most chefs recommend that you should add quite a bit of salt to boiling water which you cook pasta in (sometimes 1 teaspoon).

For those watching their sodium intake, how much of this salt will actually end up being absorbed by the pasta, and how much will be thrown out with the water?

Q: What kind of rice is used in Chinese cooking?

I love the Chinese food we get from takeaway shops, and often to save on the cost we will cook our own rice at home. This is good, but the rice never seems to have the same texture as takeaway rice - it's less sticky, and much harder to eat with chopsticks. I usually use plain long grain rice as that's what I have in the cupboard. Does anyone know what kind they would use in a Chinese restaurant or takeaway?

Also, out of interest, what kind is used in authentic Chinese cooking? (I am well aware that this is vastly different from what we eat as "Chinese food" in the West!)

Q: Time vs. Temperature - What changes what?

Really basic question that's bugging me...

Speaking mathematically, 200 degrees of heat for 10 minutes should be the same as 400 degrees of heat for 5 minutes , but that's not the case, right?

So what's the difference if I cook something for 5 minutes at 450 vs. 350, as opposed to something at 350 for 3 minutes or 7 minutes?

Which "dial" (time / temperature) changes the outcome in what way? Why is this?

Q: Rinse the salt off a steak before cooking?

I've been trying to perfect my technique for cooking a steak indoors.

It was recommended to salt the steak about 30 minutes before cooking. I used kosher salt, and cooked the steak on cast iron. Everything came out spectacularly, in fact it was the best steak I've ever made myself. However, the outer layer of the steak was significantly saltier than I think is normal. It didn't ruin the steak, but it was more than I would have liked. I would simply assume that I over-salted, but given the language people use when they recommend the technique, and the amount I actually applied, I am unsure. I fear that if I use less salt next time I will lose the perfect sear/crust and the incredible flavor of the interior meat that I achieved.

So, given the similarity to brining poultry (in which case the meat is rinsed before cooking), I wonder if the salt should be rinsed off before cooking? I didn't get this impression from any of the recommendations, but now I am not so sure.

Q: What is this fungus/lichen in my Garam Masala? (“Trifle”/truffle?)

I just bought a lovely bag of Garam Masala, and was all ready to grind some when I got home!  But when I opened it, I found something I didn’t recognise — at first I thought something had gone mouldy, but there’s enough of this in there that whatever it is, I presume it’s supposed to be in there.  

It looks to me like a fungus or lichen of some sort.  The list of ingredients includes “trifle” — could that be a mis-spelling for some Indian species of truffle, perhaps?

Q: Is it safe to eat sprouted onions?

I opened my onion rack lately to find onions that had sprouted several-inch-long green roots... It made me extremely queasy and I threw them out. But I was wondering - would it be safe to eat them / cook with them?

Q: Conversion rule: how to switch oil and butter?

Just a moment ago, I was making muffins. The recipe calls for 125ml oil.

As a footnote, it says that you can replace the oil with 125g butter.

Can you do so in every recipe (not just muffins or pastry)?

I've found this, but the amounts aren't the same (while my recipe says to use the same amount).

Q: The difference between beet sugar and cane sugar

My initial guess was that refined sugar has to be the same no matter its provenance, but now I wonder if cane sugar has a different ratio of sucrose/glucose/fructose than beet sugar.  Is there any reason why packages of refined sugar advertise 100% cane sugar?

Q: What is a good pine nut substitute for pesto?

I'm allergic to pine nuts, is there another nut I can use to make pesto?

Q: How do I use whole fresh tamarind?

On a whim I bought some tamarind at the grocery store this week. I'm most familiar with it from the dish Pad Thai. My idea at the time was that I would "do something" with it and a pork chop. Pork chops being my canvas of choice for much experimentation.

However I'm now stumped as to what I actually do with this thing. I cracked the flimsy shell/skin to expose the sticky fruit inside. I licked it; it tastes good. I'm not sure what to do next though. 

I've looked at some recipes online, but they all work with tamarind paste. I'm assuming I need to process the meat somehow to turn it into a paste. 

Questions

- Do I have to turn this into paste? 

- How do I clean/prepare it? (besides obviously throwing the skin away)

- Do I need to add oil, water, or other ingredients to make it a paste?

- Are there seeds? Do they need to be removed?

Q: What oil is best for seasoning a cast-iron skillet

I just cleaned up a rusty cast-iron skillet and I would like to season it. The thing is that I don't have lard handy and I'm wondering whether any of my other oils and fats would do. 

I have: canola, olive, sesame and almond oil. 

Also, I've heard that appying the oil and reheating multiple times improves the seasoning. Is it true? How many times does it make sense to repeat the process?

A: The best approach is to use a triangle test. This would be the standard used in sensory sciences. It is easy, and it will be a fun thing to do with friends.  Basically, each friend (panelist) is provided with three blind samples.  Two are the same, and one is different.  The objective is for them to tell you which one is different.  The validity is enhanced if you randomize the possible combinations across your participants.  The linked site provides all the necessary information, but the practice is quite common and further detail can be found from multiple sources.  I would be curious to hear the results!

A: The main reasons are speed and convenience.  Yeast takes longer (even "instant" yeast) and requires more maintenance: waiting for dough to rise, etc.

But those are the historical reasons for the adoption for baking powder.  Since it became common, another reason emerged: that is, it's very difficult if not impossible to get some kinds of texture and crumb that you get with baking powder by using yeast.

Why?  As dough sits (necessary for yeast to rise), gluten chains begin to form.  The longer the dough sits, the more gluten chains you get.  Even with pastry or cake flour, the dough will get tougher over time (though obviously not as much as with all-purpose or bread flour).

So, yes, you can make banana bread with yeast.  But by the time your dough has risen, it will have become more "bread-like," with a chewier crumb, rather than the tender "crumbly" texture most people are used to in modern quick breads.  That is even more true if you de-gas the dough and let it rise a second time, which is generally necessary (1) to get maximum rise, and (2) to even out the gas bubbles so you don't end up with large holes in the final product.

There are entire genres of "yeasted cake" recipes, which used to be quite common in Europe.  Even with a lot of sugar, they are often "bread-like," sort of like sweet brioche.  They can have a fine crumb, but they won't have the tenderness of a cake made with baking powder (or a quick bread like banana bread, for that matter, which is really like a cake/muffin).

There are entire genres of modern cakes (and quick breads) that only became possible with the use of baking powder (or at least baking soda with an acid).  Before chemical leavening, you were limited in tender cakes to a few genres that depended on whipped eggs or egg whites (e.g., angel food cake), creamed butter/sugar (e.g., pound cake), etc.

Aside from texture, there's also a flavor issue.  Generally most people like the added flavor from yeast, but it also can add a "bread-like" or "yeasty" aspect to the flavor, which may not be desirable in some cakes.  Modern baker's yeast is better than historical yeasts in this regard.  Baking powder can add a different (more "chemical") flavor, but with proper proportions and/or with acid in the batter to ensure a complete reaction, it is often barely noticeable.

EDIT: SgtStens makes a great point in another answer, which I was thinking about in my final paragraph with flavor, but didn't note clearly.  High sugar content in doughs/batters will inhibit yeast activity.  That's why most traditional yeasted cake recipes end up using a relatively low-sugar batter and then add more sweetness through a glaze, filling, streusel topping, etc.  A low-sugar dough can still rise within a reasonable amount of time (a couple hours).  On the other hand, high-sugar cake batters generally take a much longer time to rise.  (Many recipes require an overnight rise for the yeast to initially develop and multiply.)  Depending on the type of yeast and temperature, this can sometimes result in an overly "yeasty" flavor to the final product (though the high-sugar content will cover it up partially).  

However, the higher sugar amount can perhaps allow you to obtain a crumb and texture closer to a "normal cake."  On the other hand, without adequate gluten support (with lower flour content relatively), it's difficult to obtain a very light cake this way.  It's fine to create a product with the texture of pound cake or maybe a quick bread, but for something lighter, you may need to resort to baking powder.  One reason in this case is that baking powder can continue to react and produce gas until the gluten structure sets, whereas yeast will die a little earlier in the baking process.  Very light cakes often depend on a careful balance between continuous gas production inside the dough and the gradual migration of gas bubbling out the top.  The cake has to set while gas production is still going on, or else the gas will bubble out and the cake will fall.  If the dough rises too high and then the yeast stop producing gas when they die, the cake could collapse before the structure sets.

A: A KitchenAid  mixer does not have adjustable gearing; at low speeds it’s being run at low power. If run at low power with a viscous, resistant load like bread dough it can end up stalling, either continuously or repeatedly during the knead. This can overheat the motor and reduce its lifetime.

A: You have answered your own question, it was the rapid change in temperature which caused the ceramic to crack. Oven temperature for bread baking is usually somewhere around 200°C/400°F, whereas water is 100°C/212°F, which is not a trivial difference. Everyone thinks boiling water is hot, but it's cool compared to a hot oven. Rapid changes of temperature aren't ideal for glass or ceramic.

That isn't to say that your ceramic dish should have shattered, but it isn't a surprise. Next time feel free to use a ceramic dish but put the water in it at the outset, although they aren't ideal. I prefer to use a wide metal baking tray instead because it has a lot of surface area for water to evaporate, baking dishes won't get your oven moist as quickly.

A: Milk in bread dough is an enriching agent.  Other typical enriching agents for bread include things like eggs, fats (butter, oil, etc.), and different types of sugar/sweetener.  They are used to add either fat or sugar or both.

Bread made without enriching agents is known as a lean dough, typically containing only flour, water, salt, and yeast.  Lean doughs are used to produce a lot of traditional European and American crusty breads, including everything from baguettes and crusty French bread to ciabatta.  Typically, they have a firm crust, along with an elastic, springy interior that often (though not always) can have large and irregular holes.

Substituting milk for water in bread will usually add both fat (from milkfat) and sugar (lactose).  Several changes can happen, including:

- The crust will typically be softer

- The crust will brown more quickly (due to sugar) and can darken more evenly before burning

- The interior will be softer and usually less springy/elastic 

- The flavor will be richer (due to fat) and somewhat sweeter (due to sugar), though bread with milk but no added sugar will still not be noticeably sweet; nevertheless, the lactose will add a different flavor component

- Enriching agents will disrupt larger gluten networks a bit, making it less likely to develop large holes in the interior

- The added weight of the sugars and fats will decrease final loaf volume and oven spring a bit

- Enriching agents often cause the bread to take longer before it begins to develop a "stale" flavor/texture

A: As someone who has moved from the US to another country I can relate and have some general advice. Rather than spending time trying to find the US equivalent of something try to take advantage of what's good and plentiful locally. If there's something you desperately miss there's always an online store to help, the trick is not to miss those things as much. 

I wrote a meat app years ago and did a lot of research as I wanted to make an equivalents table for meat cuts across the world. I gave up because it was impossible: cuts are very different from country to country, there may be no exact equivalent for what you are looking for. Instead I would suggest you try a different approach by describing what you want out of the meat and how you plan to cook it and relying on the butcher to give it to you. Rather than saying 'New York Strip' tell the butcher you want a tender cut for charcoal gilling, for example.

A: Presumably the dish was pre-heated to bread baking temperature (?450F?) but the water was at least 200F cooler. Water has a HUGE heat of vaporization. It takes 5.4 times as much heat to convert water to steam as it does to bring the same water from 32F to 212F. All that heat is sucked out of the surface of the baking dish , cooling it to 212F.

Ceramics have poor heat conductance. Poor conductance means the water side of the dish cools down, but the other side doesn't. The cold side shrinks, but not the hot side. This produces a huge stress inside the ceramic material.

Ceramics have low elasticity. This means the material can't bend (like steel) so the stress can't be relieved by warping.

Ceramics also have poor tensile  strength. They break when stretched.

Glass breaks in tension. It is incredibly strong in compression. "Heat proof" glassware is tempered. The tempering process puts the interior of the material in tension and the surface in compression. The compressed surface closes cracks which could start a break. But the stresses between surface and interior store a lot of energy. So when it goes, it explodes

That's why the dish shattered: Big temperature difference, big tensile stress. POP !

A: Maybe take a cue from Ramen and prepare the broth and the add-ins separately.  Evenly distribute the add-ins in bowl, then top with broth and garnish.

A: No, there is no way you could do this in a kitchen. The process of denaturation is usually considered irreversible, a boiled egg stays boiled.

Ok, it is possible to un-denaturize proteins if you have the right chemicals and a fast centrifuge available and it earned Colin Raston and his team an Ig Nobel Prize. But even they can't "unboil" your boiled egg from the fridge yet. 

So it seems you either have to quickly perfect the method of Colin Raston (and possibly earn an award or two on the way) or schedule a trip to the store. Alternative approaches are asking your friendly neighbours for an egg or two, choosing a cake recipe without eggs or postponing the baking project.

A: Do nothing, or maybe give them a soap wash. 

You seem to be very worried about what are very small effects. Sure, the oil can oxidize over time. It won't turn your utensils into a big ball of funk. You probably won't notice that much difference in reality. Maybe, if you hold them under your nose, the whiff will be different than if you hadn't used olive oil. You can wash if you want to reduce the effect, or keep it so you can at least enjoy the esthetic difference of having oiled wood. 

Also, wood is not all that easily damaged, especially the kinds of wood a small artisan maker would use. People used to eat out of unfinished wooden bowls every day. Sure, you shouldn't leave the wood soaking in water, but you can wash it with detergent and soap now and then without getting much change in quality. I have a cheap, large-pore bamboo pan spatula which I regularly wash, sometimes with soaking, which is a worst-case scenario, considering the large pores of bamboo. It doesn't look 100% "like new", but it is still a normal, serviceable, nice enough spatula in appearance. The corners of the turning edge are slightly rounded, and the turning edge itself is a tiny bit frazzled, which could be repaired with a bit of sandpaper - but remember, this is something that gets washed regularly. 

If you are still very serious about getting that oil off, sandpaper is probably the way to go. But depending on the kind of surface the maker intended, you may ruin that surface. If you have small-detail carving, that would look much worse, since you'd have to remove a small layer of material, not just surface-polish it, and you may not be able to get into each carved hole/chip anyway. And if the set was not intended to look too rustic, you will need to go through a progression of sandpapers applied with some skill to get a nice, even sheen. 

Also, remember that those are salad utensils. If you intend to use them, as opposed to hanging them on the wall, they will come into contact with edible oils frequently, as well as ingredients like vinegar and lemon juice. Especially if you wash them rarely, and/or use little soap, they will get a "seasoning" of salad dressing on their surface just from use. Yes, it will get slightly rancid, and all that. You will likely get a visual difference between the heads of the utensils, and the dry-staying handles. That is normal and expected with wood utensils in use. If you want to keep them pristine, the only chance is to get some heavy acrylic or nitro finishing on them and keep them away from food, in a room different from the kitchen.

A: Clearly, your flatmate was misinformed. Firstly, Italian cuisine is defined regionally. There are vast differences throughout the country, usually defined by local ingredients and historical influences.  However, there are many Italian dishes...from north to south that contain both onion and garlic.  It could be true that someone's specific recipe for, spinach, for example may only have onion...or only have garlic, but if you like the combination, there is no reason not to use it.  There is no such general "rule" in Italian cuisine.

A: Starting from the basics: Mayonnaise, as you know, is a combination of water-based liquids, water-soluble ingredients, and lipids (fats/oils). Since water and lipids are immiscible, that makes mayonnaise an emulsion.

Because the droplets (of fat) suspended in an emulsion are not actually dissolved, the properties of that emulsion depend entirely on the size of those droplets and their dispersion.  The most likely reason that your mayonnaise tasted like oil is that it actually was pure oil in spots.

The technical term for this is flocculation.

(source: Cube Cola)

This is probably what happened to you - it's possible that if you had really poor dispersion, you might have even been closer to the "coalescence" stage.

To use a more tangible example, consider what happens when you dissolve flour or corn starch in cold water, then heat it.  The starch gelatinizes and you end up with a fairly uniform, thick paste.  Now think of what happens if you toss it into hot water; you'll tend to end up with something that isn't uniform, instead you'll end up with big globs of cooked flour floating around in thin, cloudy water.

Keep in mind that the chemistry is completely different with an emulsion - in fact, there technically is no chemistry happening with an emulsion until emulsifiers come into the picture - but the concept is the same.  You might not be able to see those globs of oil floating around in the water as well as you can see the globs of flour, but if you didn't get proper dispersion and suspension, they're there, and they will taste exactly how you'd expect a glob of pure oil to taste.

Traditional mayonnaise uses raw egg yolk (containing lecithin) and mustard (containing mucilage), both of which act as emulsifiers.  These are called "emulsifiers" mainly because they help the emulsion to stay stable, which is why the store-bought mayonnaise doesn't separate (it also probably has a few extra additives).  However, they aren't all that helpful for getting that initial dispersion; the most efficient way to do that is to let small drops of oil into a liquid that is being constantly and uniformly agitated.

You can do this by stirring, but an even better way is to use an immersion blender with emulsifying blade.  Note that this is not the flat aerating blade that is often confused with the emulsifying blade, nor is it the star-shaped liquefying blade that is the default on most sticks and many manufacturers confusingly call an "emulsifying" blade.  The one you want looks a bit like a hubcap; it's flat with several slits or holes and is sometimes also called a "smoothie blade" or "whisk blade":

or

(the one I'm talking about is the bottom left)

These things are perfect for preparations like mayonnaise, but if you don't have one, you can get halfway decent results with a wire whisk.  You'll just need to use a lot of elbow grease.

If you get really good dispersion, and use sufficient emulsifiers such that the emulsion doesn't separate too fast, then I promise you, your mayo won't have that "fatty" taste and it will be 1000 times better than the store-bought goop.

A: Chickpeas are sold fresh.  They just have a short season, and they're annoying to prepare, so you'll only find them in specialty markets unless you live in an area that eats a lot of chickpeas.  In the US, you can find them seasonally at high-end organic groceries like Whole Foods and Market of Choice, and of course in Middle Eastern food markets and farmer's markets.

As you can see from the picture, chickpeas have small fuzzy pods that are one-per-pea.  This means that shelling them is very time-consuming; even in places where chickpeas are a staple of the diet, they are mostly eaten dried because it's just easier.  There are specific recipes for fresh chickpeas in those cuisines, though.

A: For baking bread, cakes etc., it is important to properly preheat the oven.* For many other dishes it's not such a big deal; you may even be able to turn it on when you put the food in, though it will take a little longer to cook (still less than the total of preheating plus cooking, so dinner can be on the table sooner counting from when you enter the kitchen).

When writing recipes, a decent author will try to make the process easy to follow. This means turning on the oven when you're not occupied with other things and have clean hands. They also don't know how long your oven takes to heat up, and whether the indicator on it even reflects the air temperature (common, but apparently so is a timer; typical domestic ovens don't consider the temperature of the metal, which holds more heat than the air). So they'll err on the side of starting early. Maybe not by as much as you think, because once you've made the recipe a few times (as they will have done) the prep is a little quicker.

* "Properly" preheated is still variable, but one good rule of thumb, with a light that indicates when the element is on, is to wait for it to go off the second time: It first goes off when the air is up to temperature, comes back on as some of that heat soaks into the metalwork and the air temperature drops, then goes off again when the air is back up to temperature.  That's still not enough if using things like pizza stones or preheated cast iron (common for sourdough and some other breads).

A: This is not true anymore, and modern recipes omit that part.

Back then, when silverware was made either from silver or pre-stainless-steel-alloys the acid in sourdough (and other foods*) would interact with the metal and corrode/color the metal and/or spoil the food.

So put your sourdough in your (stainless steel) mixing bowl and knead it in your kitchen machine as you like.

  

*examples (thanks to @Stephie): eggs (there were special egg-spoons made from  horn or tortoise shell and later bakelite or plastic to
  prevent the sulphur in the eggs interacting with the metal),
  marmelade/jam (special spoons, jam would get runny if it got in
  contact with the wrong spoon), potatoes (there is a rule to not cut
  them with a knife).

A: I would invest in a small thermos bottle, about the size of what you need for one day. They are not only designed to keep hot food hot, they can also keep cold food cold. Choose a size that will be as full as possible when you start, it will keep better.

This is what the small B&B we‘re currently staying at supplies to their guests. If it’s good for an early morning tea, it’ll be good for afternoon coffee as well:

If you want to go all the way, you can pre-chill the container, then fill it with well-chilled milk from your home fridge. You could even freeze some milk as ice cubes, if you find that it doesn’t stay cold enough until the end of your work day or your last coffee break. Store the thermos away from heat sources and not in warm sunlight, of course.

Note that you also have the “two-hours in the danger zone” buffer and that “unsafe” doesn’t automatically mean “spoiled”. Especially when the milk is still quite cold and only shortly after the two-hour window the risk for a healthy adult should be small. No recommendation, just a thought.

Switching to milk alternatives won’t change anything where food safety is concerned.

A: Would it help to compare these two graphics from Wikipedia side by side to find the correct butcher term?  

As we can see, the Italian graphic has 19 distinct areas, while the American graphic only has 12 (I don't know how many "special cuts" are omitted though). As others have said, there are cultural differences here, so you might never get a New York strip or short ribs in Italy whatsoever, as they just cut up their cattle differently. 

On a personal note, I have noticed that compared to Austria and Germany (I'm from Austria), meat in general in Italy seems to be more tendon-y and less cleaned up when you buy it. 

Finally, if you do want a nice T-bone/porterhouse, might I suggest to order some "bistecca fiorentina" (just "Fiorentina" would be enough to be understood). Those are massive steaks that easily weigh in at 800-1500g (1.8 to 3.3 pounds) a piece. A good butcher should be able to get that for you no problem.

A: You want the interior of the oven, not just the air, to be nice and hot so little heat is lost when you open the oven door to put in the dish.  That takes longer than just heating the air.

A: Per commentary by the OP, apparently what's needed in the answers here is a catalog.

American Red Pepper Flakes: Dried and crumbled flakes of cayenne peppers per other answers.  Used extensively in general American cuisine as well as Italian-American cuisine.  In the US, often substituted for harder to find pepper flakes that would be more culturally appropriate to the dish (such as those below).

On the occasions that Italians in Italy use "red pepper flakes", they are more likely to be Calabrian Peperoncino.

Turkish/Syrian/Lebanese Red Pepper Flakes Most of the time the crumbled flakes of dried "Aleppo Pepper" (pul biber).  However, the civil war in Syria has restricted supplies of this pepper, so often what is labeled "Aleppo Pepper" is actually Marash Pepper or Antebi pepper instead -- which are both tasty but hotter than Aleppo, so adjust accordingly.  The Turkish also use Urfa Pepper flakes, so if your recipe is Turkish and doesn't specify, it could be any of these.

Korean Red Pepper Flakes: gochugaru, the flakes of the Korean red pepper, a medium hot pepper.  Used liberally throughout Korean cooking, in flake, powder, and fermented paste form. Possible the best substitute for Aleppo pepper if you're completely unable to find any Turkish/Syrian pepper varieties.

Mexican Red Pepper Flakes: varies, and you really want to read the label.  Frequently crumbled chile de arbol, which are screamingly spicy.  But ... could also be flaked chipotles (dark and smoked) or ancho chile (medium-hot), or other peppers.  Take nothing for granted.  Ancho Chile is also the main chile used for American "chile powder".

Chinese Red Pepper Flakes: usually flakes of the Sichuan "jin tao" pepper, used in Sichuan and Hunan cuisine, but could be a different pepper if the recipe is from a different region.  Spicy and fruity.

Indian or Thai Red Pepper Flakes: these two cuisines very rarely use peppers in flake form; they generally use whole peppers instead.  As such, any mention of "pepper flakes" in an English-language Indian or Thai dish is likely to be a substitution for whole peppers, and as such probably means the American cayenne flakes.  However, various Indian peppers are available in flake form in the US, so could also mean those.

Undoubtedly there are other cuisines that use something described as "red pepper flakes", but this should give you an idea of the breadth of ingredients that label could apply to.  You need to depend on context -- or, ideally, a glossary in the cookbook -- to figure out what's actually meant.

Your case is an example of the problem with American-Ethnic recipes. A recipe for Turkish Meatballs written by an American could mean Aleppo pepper, but could also have been adjusted to use the common cayenne pepper flakes.  Without specific information in the recipe, there's no way to know -- but it's also hard to fail by using Aleppo pepper.

A: There are several factors that increase price. Some are related to the objective quality of the wine, some indirectly linked, other are rather disconnected from quality (but not necessarily irrelevant, as we'll see). 
It's also worth noting that being of high quality doesn't necessarily mean being appealing to the average consumer.

Apart from the stuff listed below, mass-market wines tend to be made in a non-challenging, easily accessible style. Lower tannin levels, less acidity and a generous amount of residual sugar (say 10-30g/l) makes for easy quaffing but little complexity or elegance. They can be very well-made, but the agriculture may not be very sustainable, and the fruit probably isn't of the highest quality. (If you visit a winery at harvest when they bring in the bulk wine fruit, the meaning of "quality" becomes rather apparent.)

Wines targeted at connoisseurs, wine snobs and wine geeks (such as yours truly) tend have more structure (tannins, acidity) and are more often completely dry (although there are of course high-quality off-dry, semi-sweet, and sweet wines).

There's a limit to how much a producer can spend to increase quality, a limit which varies with location (because of salaries for workers etc) but around $100 per bottle is probably in the right order of magnitude. This does not mean that all wines above this magical limit are equally good, though.

A dirt-cheap wine will also have a cost associated to it which will be payed for by someone else, like under-payed harvest workers, the environment around the vineyard, etc.

Below are some factors that have a more or less direct link to wine quality and/or character:

Yield per acre: Limiting the vineyard's yield per acre (which can be achieved by sparser planting, thinning/green harvest, old vines, etc) increases the quality of the fruit, but you will produce less wine with more or less the same amount of work, which means you'll have to adjust the price.

Number of harvesting tries: At harvest, you can pick all the fruit of one vineyard at the same time and be done with it. Unfortunately, not all bunches ripen at exactly the same time, so to avoid over- or under-ripe grapes, you can make multiple tries (French, pronounced "trees") over several days and pick each bunch at optimal ripeness. More tries inevitably means more work, and so, price increases.

Selection: When the harvest is brought in, you can throw all the fruit into the press, or you can select the best grapes to make your wine (and make brandy or a second wine of the discarded grapes, or sell them on to a bulk wine producer). Being picky reduces the amount of wine produced, and so, prices increase.

Drying: Some wines, like Amarone and straw wine, are made from partially dried grapes, and drying decreases the amount of wine you produce (apart from being extra work) which means - more expensive wine.

Sparkling: Sparkling wines made with the traditional method - like Champagne and Cava - need to be disgorged after bottle fermentation, which leads to a certain amount of waste (a Cava producer I talked to said that around 10% of the original wine is lost in disgorgement).

Oak aging: Many wines are fermented and/or aged in oak barrels, which greatly affects the character of the wine compared to other types of containers, like concrete or stainless steel vats. (More oak doesn't mean better wine, of course.) Oak barrels are horribly more expensive than the alternatives (and European oak is more expensive than American, and they impart different character), and so, the more oak you use, the more expensive the wine gets.

Aging in general: Most high-quality wine receive a bit of aging before consumption to let all components integrate; some designations of origin even require aging prior to selling. Rioja Gran Reserva, for example, must be aged at least three years, with at least one of those years being on oak, while vintage Champagne is mandated to rest three years on the lees, etc. Apart from time being money, you also need a suitable storage location (cool and humid but not too cool and humid, secure but accessible to yourself, etc) which is far from free. The price increases.

Other factors aren't causally linked to higher quality, but tend to be connected:

Reputation: If you're an unproven winemaker you will be able to charge more if you're operating in a district of high repute than if you're working in an area where no-one has made quality wine before. Conversely, a well-known, high-quality producer expanding their operations to a somewhat less proven district will likely be able to charge more than their new neighbours.

Brand: Marketing can take many forms, such as it advertising, tailoring wines to suit influential reviewers, and tends to push prices up. Wineries can even try increasing prices just to seem more exclusive. You can also be lucky and find some great, undiscovered producer (don't tell anyone! except me, that is) selling their wines at more-or-less cost price (which probably still won't be dirt cheap, though).

Land prices: Some spots are better for growing grapes. If you're in unexploited territory, you might find a great spot and pay next to nothing, but if you're in a region with an established wine industry, odds are all the good spots are taken... and it'll cost you to buy an existing vineyard.

Know-how: Making wine is hard. Unless you are good at it yourself (or a friend, or perhaps your nephew, or your sister-in-law, is), you can hire some hotshot consultant œnologist like Michel Rolland to help you make the most of the fruit you produce... but the consultants will cost you lots of $$$, and your customers will need to pay.

Vintage: Vintages vary in quality and quantity. If a vintage is high quality but low in quantity, we will see less supply and likely higher demand. Having said that, a good year isn't always a guarantee for a good wine (if the winemaker screws up the quality of the fruit doesn't matter), and in a hard year, auspicious microclimates and competent vintners can produce great wines anyway. Furthermore, some years can be very good but have an even better "sibling" year, and don't receive their due hype. For example, 1995 was a very, very good year in Champagne, but 1996 is perhaps one of the greatest vintages evur, so the 1995s can be something of a bargain compared to 1996s.

Some things might not increase quality at all but still have an effect on price (and some of these may still be worth the price!):

Use of pesticides: Using pesticides to counter disease, parasites, pests, etc can increase yield without affecting quality negatively, which lowers the price, but on the other hand you spew out poisons into nature and expose your vineyard workers to them. (The residues left in the finished wine tend to be negligible, though.)

Labour: Paying decent wages to your harvest workers means a costlier wine. Find some illegal immigrants you can pay less than minimum wage and the wine gets cheaper.

Taxes: Some countries have different alcohol taxes for for different ABVs. For example, in Sweden (where I live) the tax is relatively lower for a 15% ABV wine than it is at 16% ABV (which isn't very common, but for example Zinfandels and Amarones can reach that amount). Furthermore, in some countries the alcohol tax depends on the alcohol content solely (which favours expensive wine, as alcohol tax will end up being rather negligible), in others it may be a percentage of the retail price (which favours cheap wine).

Price regulations: At least historically, some districts have regulated the minimum price (and sometimes also the maximum) price a farmer can charge for their fruit when selling it to a winemaker, which inevitably affects the end price.

Export/import: If you buy wine from far away countries, not only are you paying for the transport, but you may also be paying import/export tariffs.

Organic certification: Organic farming doesn't necessarily mean organic certification. The organizations issuing certifications charge a fee, which can be quite hefty for a small producer, so some organic producers aren't labelled as such since they can't afford the certification fees.

Adding gold: Yup, there are wines with actual gold added to them. I can't see that affecting quality in any way, but it'll surely affect the price!

So, to conclude - quality costs, but not all costs impart quality, and quality doesn't equate appeal.

A: Many recipes specify salt measurements by volume, but different brands of salt vary by density. In order to consistently predict the weight of salt used, recipe authors fix the density by fixing the brand.

If you want to know whether you can use the brand that's available to you, the answer is yes. You just need to convert the units to weight.

From Simply Recipes:

By weight, the brands are the same and can be used interchangeably. This is why you should ideally always measure large amounts of kosher salt by weight to be precise.

But if you’re measuring by volume — or if a recipe only lists the kosher salt by volume — you can run into issues. Since Morton kosher salt is has a finer grind, you’ll pack more into a cup than if you’re using Diamond Crystal. This can really throw off a recipe!

First off, look for (or ask!) which brand of kosher salt is recommended in the recipe, especially if the recipe calls for larger amounts of salt. (If you only need a teaspoon or so, you're usually ok using either brand without throwing off the recipe that much.)

Then either use the brand specified, or follow this conversion chart:

- 

1 cup of Morton’s Kosher Salt = 241 grams = 1 3/4 cup minus 1 teaspoon of Diamond Crystal Kosher Salt

- 

1 cup of Diamond Crystal Kosher Salt = 137 grams = 1/2 cup plus 2 teaspoons of Morton’s Kosher Salt

137/241 is approximately 0.568, or a bit more than half. If you need to be precise, measure by weight.

A: That's fine. A lot of people actually do that on purpose, it's referred to as "soaking". It will shave a bit off the cooking time and won't negatively affect the rice at all. Give it a stir before you start cooking. You can drain and rinse it too if you want, that will give you very separate, distinct grains. Use about 1/4 less water for cooking if you do it that way, because the rice will have soaked up some water.

A: A candy thermometer is pretty much always the answer when it comes to candymaking, which includes caramelizing sugar.

Assuming the soft ball stage is indeed the best for brewing, all you have to do is keep track of the temperature: the soft ball stage is at 112-116C/234-241F.

While you can certainly buy specialized candy thermometers (they often have clips to attach to the pot), all you really need is a thermometer that's accurate in that range and can be easily dipped into your pot. (That is, don't use some old glass thermometer not meant for candy, but a kitchen thermometer with a metal probe is fine, whether or not it was sold as a candy thermometer.) Make sure that you have it in the liquid, not touching the bottom of the pot.

Note that this is well short of burning; there are several other stages hotter than that. So just don't use excessive heat, and keep an eye on it, and you won't have any disasters. This is also likely why people are a bit suspicious that this is the right stage to aim for: table sugar doesn't start browning until you're past all the candymaking stages, up to ~170C/338F. However, table sugar is pure sucrose, while honey has a lot of imperfections and is monosaccharide fructose and glucose, so it likely caramelizes much faster, so this may well be a good stage/temperature range.

There's also a way to test without a thermometer, but it's more difficult to get right on the first try. The stage is named the soft ball stage because if you take a bit of the syrup at that stage and drop it into cool water to quickly cool it, you'll end up with a soft, smooth ball/lump.

Adding water doesn't really help here. The temperatures are well above boiling, so the water is really just there to help get things going initially; the water helps ensure that there's something in contact with the whole bottom of the pot (no hot spots to form), and lets things flow around a bit, so you get to melted sugar with less fuss. Since you're starting with honey, you're already fine. Even if it starts out thick, it'll rapidly get thinner as it heats. All that will happen if you add water is that it'll take longer for all the water to cook off so that the temperature can rise to where you want.

Finally, this isn't what you asked, but if your goal is flavor, you can also simply heat slowly until it starts to brown/darken a bit and smell good, and then immediately remove the pot from the heat. The "slowly" is really important, because  once the water is gone, the temperature will rise rapidly. You can still use a thermometer to help out with this plan, by watching for the temperature to pass 100C and start to increase more quickly; at that point you want to make sure the heat is very low and you're ready to move the pot.

A: Well, you did use pectin - but you were unaware of it.

The traditional way of making jam is by cooking the cut fruit with sugar until the jam sets and wrinkles when dropped on a cold plate (or when the temperature rises to 104°C / 220°F - some slight variations may apply). What happens is that the naturally occurring pectin in the fruit will start to gel. Some fruits are naturally high in pectin, others are low in pectin, and typically riper fruit have less available pectin. Many recipes will suggest adding some acid component (lemon juice, citric acid), either from the start or when the jam doesn’t set properly on the cold plate test, not just for flavor, but because the acid helps extract the pectin from the fruit cells. Our grandmothers even used to turn unripe apples (=very high in pectin) into a gelling agent for jams made from low-pectin fruit.

But what about your specific case? Well, gooseberries are naturally rich in pectin and contain plenty of acidity to extract it, so you had an abundance and now a well-set jam. That’s just what is to be expected. For blueberries, sources vary, some claim high, some low pectin levels. At least together with the gooseberries, they won’t dilute the jam noticeably. In short, your jam is so stiff because you did everything right in your first attempt, congrats.

Adding extra pectin to a jam base of fruit + sugar is more like an “insurance policy” for setting the jam and needs a shorter cooking time, which some cooks prefer, because the flavor of the fruit can change over time during cooking. It can be helpful for low-pectin fruit like peaches.

A: Although it doesn't explicitly say so, that's allergy information. It's just been processed in a place that also (potentially) processes those things, so it potentially contains a trace amount, which could be bad if you have a really sensitive allergy. It won't contain enough of those things to matter for any other purpose.

Often labels like that are written along the lines of "processed in a facility which also processes..." to make it a little more clear. The lists aren't usually that long, either; most facilities don't process everything. But as pointed out in the comments, a grocery store is a lot more likely to just have a single kitchen that possibly handles all kinds of things.

A: Your best bet for longevity is UHT milk - in individual portions.

It's the same stuff you get in hotel rooms.

Pic from Amazon, anonymised.

Though it doesn't taste the same as 'real' milk it's virtually indestructible, almost inert, & will survive unopened & unrefrigerated for 6 - 9 months.

As soon as it's opened, you have to treat it just like real milk, so large cartons would not be suitable.

There are dozens of brands - this was just one that Google found near the top of the list - Amazon UK - UHT MILK PORTIONS 1 x 120 portions (10ML)

A: It has a name: sourdough.

This may surprise you if you are accustomed to thinking of sourdough as something created through an arcane process of feeding, discarding, coddling at special temperatures or improving with fruit juices. All that stuff is simply the side effect of the way modern food geeks approach their hobby, and a workable way of producing one specific type of sourdough. But it's not what makes sourdough a sourdough. A sourdough is any dough which has been left to ferment for a very long time, creating a stable microbial colony with a distinct taste.

A sourdough can be baked directly, like you did, although that's rarely done. The more common role is to use it as a preferment and add it to freshly made bread dough, alone or with other leaveners. There are also recipes for other baked goods, such as waffles, which use sourdough. Look around for recipes including sourdough, and you'll find a lot.

If you enjoy the taste of the particular colony you created, and don't want to use it up, you can replenish your sourdough with more flour and water any time you take away some for baking.

A: In my opinion, the best option is to have someone grind them for you. Ask your friends--someone may have a grinder you can borrow, or would be happy to grind them for you in exchange for some cookies or part of the bag of coffee.

If you have a local coffee shop, talk to the barista (over the latte' you just bought) and ask if he/she will grind your beans for you. I've heard even the mighty Starbucks will grind your beans for you if you ask nicely enough.

If you want to do it yourself, you need to find a way to get the beans down to grinds. Some ideas:

Mortar and pestle. Be careful not to make Turkish coffee powder instead of the more chunky grinds you want.

Rolling pin. Put the beans in a heavy Ziploc bag or similar, and have a go at them. Roll, whack, smash.

Have a nice, heavy frying pan? Ziploc bag again, hammer away.

And speaking of hammers...

No, not that Hammer.  This hammer.

A: There is empirical support for the effect of temperature on pitting corrosion, although from what little I'm able to understand of the very complicated metallurgy, the common explanation given is far too simplistic and the actual behaviour is not nearly as clear-cut as "colder = more salt crystals = more pitting", but rather due to something called transpassive dissolution (searching for this will give you lots of scholarly results on stainless steel corrosion).

I'll get straight to the point by referencing this chapter on pitting corrosion from the Metals Handbook (textbook) which has the following convenient graph:

More pitting happens at lower temperatures. As the link explains:

  

At low temperatures, extremely high breakdown potentials are observed, corresponding to transpassive dissolution, not localized corrosion. Just above the critical pitting temperature (CPT), pitting corrosion occurs at a potential that is far below the transpassive breakdown potential.

But you can see from the graph that that's not the whole story, either. Excluding what happens at very high temperatures (above the CPT), the impact of temperature looks to be maybe 20-30%, but there are much more significant variations based on other factors, the most notable kitchen-applicable examples being the material (described as the PREN - Pitting Resistance Equivalent Number), surface condition (grit), and inhibitor elements in the solution (traces of which may or may not be found in tap water).

While this does certainly support the conclusion, it's also obvious, if you read the explanation of pitting or look at the lovely reaction diagram on page 2 of the textbook link, that it has literally nothing to do with undissolved salt. In fact, pitting is caused by the Cl- ions specifically, and so can only happen after it is dissolved in the water. If you just poured salt on a dry pan in a dry environment, it shouldn't corrode.

Moreover, pitting is a stochastic process - it's quite literally random even when you know all the other parameters, so while one can certainly average it out over many experiments and thus quantify the correlation with temperature, that ends up having little meaning in a kitchen setting because you are cooking with one pan/pot and the random variation seems to be a lot more profound than the effect of the temperature variable.

Anyway, in case anyone was thinking that it sounds pretty simple so far - it's not. The experiment that produced the graph above was performed under one set of conditions - using just salt, water, and stainless steel. While that's certainly comparable to cooking, it's interesting to see what another source (Inﬂuence of the electrolyte composition and temperature on the transpassive dissolution of austenitic stainless steels in simulated bleaching solutions - PDF warning) says about oxalic acid:

  

The addition of oxalic acid has accordingly a much bigger impact on the transpassive corrosion rate at 70° C than at room temperature [...] In the solutions containing organic additives at 70° C, transpassive oxidation starts at significantly lower potentials than at room temperature.

In case you're not familiar with oxalic acid - or wondering why you should care - it's the primary ingredient in Bar Keeper's Friend, which many "premium" stainless steel cookware brands such as All Clad recommend using to clean your cookware - and nearly every cleaning guide recommends warm, but not hot, water. Admittedly, I just looked at the label and BKF doesn't specify a temperature, so the warm-water recommendation is entirely anecdotal - but looking at the above, it makes sense; you want to use warm water in order for it to be more effective, but using hot water (or even warm water for more than a minute or so) increases the risk of corrosion, especially if what you're trying to clean is caked-on salt or charred food.

The effect of pH is more generally supported by various studies, where neutral is better (i.e. less corrosion), not to mention that strong acids cause the other type of corrosion (called intergranular), and yes, vinegar counts, although the effect is very slow, but still appreciable over time if you like to deglaze with boiling vinegar, for example.

Even of the type of salt makes a big difference, if you scroll further down on that same previous link. Ammonium chloride is, for example, often found in sea salt, and it would appear to cause pitting corrosion much faster than the sodium chloride in table salt or kosher salt.

Here's what really does matter in a practical sense: Pitting is a reduction reaction, it's caused by a lack of oxygen available to the metal surface - unlike, for example, rust, which is caused by oxygen. Quoting the last link:

  

If debris of any kind is allowed to accumulate on the surfaces of stainless steel equipment, it will reduce the accessibility of oxygen to the covered areas and pits may develop in such locations because of the reduced oxygen concentration. [...] ...carbon deposits from heated organic compounds are typical examples of this source of [pitting] corrosion of stainless steels.

If you really want to protect your stainless steel cookware, just don't ever let it boil dry, and make sure to clean it properly if you start to see "stains" or "scum" on the bottom of your pan; those are dissolved salts and some organic compounds from the water and sometimes the food, and when they stick to the pan's surface, they do exactly what's described above - they block oxygen, and they do this for a much longer period - all day all every day as opposed to the 10-20 minutes you spent heating/boiling some water. That long, slow starvation of oxygen over hundreds or thousands of hours, as opposed to the minuscule amount of time it spends on the stove, is exactly what causes pitting.

Short answer: Theoretically, yes, salt water at low temperature pits stainless steel faster than salt water at high temperature, although the popular explanation for the mechanism appears to be completely bogus. Practically, this factor is dwarfed by a dozen other factors and probably isn't worth worrying about at all. It typically takes thousands of hours for a pH-neutral, not-too-concentrated saline solution to cause any appreciable pitting corrosion at any temperature. What's more important is how clean the cookware is while it's stored, as that is the state in which it will spend the majority of its time, and as long as it's kept clean, salt-water temperature should not be a major concern.

A: Almost exactly what you describe can be done, it’s shown in this video. 

The sugar isn’t hot blown, it’s isomalt, a lower-calorie sugar substitute used in lower calorie candies and by foodies because it is formable into interesting shapes, like your sphere. It's a sugar alcohol, derived from sugar, and is considered "natural" (see What does "natural" actually mean?).