ICE CREAMS, WATER ICES, FROZEN PUDDINGS

TOGETHER WITH REFRESHMENTS FOR ALL SOCIAL AFFAIRS

By Mrs. S. T. Rorer

Author of Mrs. Rorer's New Cook Book, Philadelphia Cook Book, Canning and
Preserving, and other Valuable Works on Cookery

CONTENTS

FOREWORD

PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAMS

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAMS

ICE CREAMS FROM CONDENSED MILK

FROZEN PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS

WATER ICES AND SHERBETS OR SORBETS

FROZEN FRUITS

FRAPPÉ

PARFAIT

MOUSSE

SAUCES FOR ICE CREAMS

REFRESHMENTS FOR AFFAIRS

  Soups
  Sweetbreads
  Shell Fish Dishes
  Poultry and Game Dishes
  Cold Dishes
  Salads
  Sandwiches

SUGGESTIONS FOR CHURCH SUPPERS

FOREWORD CONTAINING GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR ALL RECIPES

In this book, Philadelphia Ice Creams, comprising the first group, are
very palatable, but expensive. In many parts of the country it is quite
difficult to get good cream. For that reason, I have given a group of
creams, using part milk and part cream, but it must be remembered that
it takes smart "juggling" to make ice cream from milk. By far better use
condensed milk, with enough water or milk to rinse out the cans.

Ordinary fruit creams may be made with condensed milk at a cost of about
fifteen cents a quart, which, of course, is cheaper than ordinary milk and
cream.

In places where neither cream nor condensed milk can be purchased, a fair
ice cream is made by adding two tablespoonfuls of olive oil to each quart
of milk. The cream for Philadelphia Ice Cream should be rather rich, but
not double cream.

If pure raw cream is stirred rapidly, it swells and becomes frothy, like
the beaten whites of eggs, and is "whipped cream." To prevent this in
making Philadelphia Ice Cream, one-half the cream is scalded, and when it
is _very_ cold, the remaining half of raw cream is added. This gives the
smooth, light and rich consistency which makes these creams so different
from others.

USE OF FRUITS

Use fresh fruits in the summer and the best canned unsweetened fruits in
the winter. If sweetened fruits must be used, cut down the given quantity
of sugar. Where acid fruits are used, they should be added to the cream
after it is partly frozen.

TIME FOR FREEZING

The time for freezing varies according to the quality of cream or milk or
water; water ices require a longer time than ice creams. It is not well to
freeze the mixtures too rapidly; they are apt to be coarse, not smooth, and
if they are churned before the mixture is icy cold they will be greasy or
"buttery."

The average time for freezing two quarts of cream should be ten minutes; it
takes but a minute or two longer for larger quantities.

DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING

Pound the ice in a large bag with a mallet, or use an ordinary ice shaver.
The finer the ice, the less time it takes to freeze the cream. A four quart
freezer will require ten pounds of ice, and a quart and a pint of coarse
rock salt. You may pack the freezer with a layer of ice three inches thick,
then a layer of salt one inch thick, or mix the ice and salt in the tub and
shovel it around the freezer. Before beginning to pack the freezer, turn
the crank to see that all the machinery is in working order. Then open the
can and turn in the mixture that is to be frozen. Turn the crank slowly and
steadily until the mixture begins to freeze, then more rapidly until it is
completely frozen. If the freezer is properly packed, it will take fifteen
minutes to freeze the mixture. Philadelphia Ice Creams are not good if
frozen too quickly.

TO REPACK

After the cream is frozen, wipe off the lid of the can and remove the
crank; take off the lid, being very careful not to allow any salt to fall
into the can. Remove the dasher and scrape it off. Take a large knife or
steel spatula, scrape the cream from the sides of the can, work and pack
it down until it is perfectly smooth. Put the lid back on the can, and put
a cork in the hole from which the dasher was taken. Draw off the water,
repack, and cover the whole with a piece of brown paper; throw over a heavy
bag or a bit of burlap, and stand aside for one or two hours to ripen.

TO MOLD ICE CREAMS, ICES OR PUDDINGS

If you wish to pack ice cream and serve it in forms or shapes, it must be
molded after the freezing. The handiest of all of these molds is either the
brick or the melon mold.

After the cream is frozen rather stiff, prepare a tub or bucket of coarsely
chopped ice, with one-half less salt than you use for freezing. To each ten
pounds of ice allow one quart of rock salt. Sprinkle a little rock salt in
the bottom of your bucket or tub, then put over a layer of cracked ice,
another layer of salt and cracked ice, and on this stand your mold, which
is not filled, but is covered with a lid, and pack it all around, leaving
the top, of course, to pack later on. Take your freezer near this tub.
Remove the lid from the mold, and pack in the cream, smoothing it down
until you have filled it to overflowing. Smooth the top with a spatula or
limber knife, put over a sheet of waxed paper and adjust the lid. Have a
strip of muslin or cheese cloth dipped in hot paraffin or suet and quickly
bind the seam of the lid. This will remove all danger of salt water
entering the pudding. Now cover the mold thoroughly with ice and salt.

Make sure that your packing tub or bucket has a hole below the top of the
mold, so that the salt water will be drained off.

If you are packing in small molds, each mold, as fast as it is closed,
should be wrapped in wax paper and put down into the salt and ice. These
must be filled quickly and packed.

Molds should stand two hours, and may stand longer.

TO REMOVE ICE CREAMS, ICES AND PUDDINGS FROM MOLDS

Ice cream may be molded in the freezer; you will then have a perfectly
round smooth mold, which serves very well for puddings that are to be
garnished, and saves a great deal of trouble and extra expense for salt and
ice.

As cold water is warmer than the ordinary freezing mixture, after you lift
the can or mold, wipe off the salt, hold it for a minute under the cold
water spigot, then quickly wipe the top and bottom and remove the lid.
Loosen the pudding with a limber knife, hold the mold a little slanting,
give it a shake, and nine times out of ten it will come out quickly, having
the perfect shape of the can or mold. If the cream still sticks and refuses
to come out, wipe the mold with a towel wrung from warm water. Hot water
spoils the gloss of puddings, and unless you know exactly how to use it,
the cream is too much melted to garnish.

All frozen puddings, water ices, sherbets and sorbets are frozen and molded
according to these directions.

The quantities given in these recipes are arranged in equal amounts, so
that for a smaller number of persons they can be easily divided.

QUANTITIES FOR SERVING

Each quart of ice cream will serve, in dessert plates, four persons. In
stem ice cream dishes, silver or glass, it will serve six persons. A quart
of ice or sherbet will fill ten small sherbet stem glasses, to serve with
the meat course at dinner. This quantity will serve in lemonade glasses
eight persons.

PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAMS

BURNT ALMOND ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of sugar
     4 ounces of sweet almonds
     1 tablespoonful of caramel
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract
     4 tablespoonfuls of sherry

Shell, blanch and roast the almonds until they are a golden brown, then
grate them. Put half the cream and all the sugar over the fire in a double
boiler. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, take it from the fire, add the
caramel and the almonds, and, when cold, add the remaining pint of cream,
the vanilla and the sherry. Freeze as directed on page 7.

This quantity will serve eight persons.

APRICOT ICE CREAM

     6 ounces of sugar
     1 quart of cream
     1 can of apricots or
     1 quart of fresh apricots

If fresh apricots are used, take an extra quarter of a pound of sugar. Put
half the cream and all the sugar over the fire in a double boiler and stir
until the sugar is dissolved; take from the fire and, when cold, add the
remaining cream. Turn the mixture into the freezer, and, when frozen fairly
stiff, add the apricots after having been pressed through a colander.
Return the lid, adjust the crank, and turn it slowly for five minutes, then
remove the dasher and repack.

This quantity should serve ten persons.

BANANA ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
     6 large bananas
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Put half the cream and all the sugar over the fire and stir until the
sugar is dissolved; take from the fire, and, when perfectly cold, add the
remaining half of the cream. Freeze the mixture, and add the bananas mashed
or pressed through a colander. Put on the lid, adjust the crank, and turn
until the mixture is frozen rather hard.

This quantity will serve ten persons.

BISCUIT ICE CREAM

     6 wine biscuits
     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Grate and sift the biscuits. Scald half the cream and the sugar; when cold,
add the remaining cream and the vanilla, and freeze. When frozen, remove
the dasher, stir in the powdered biscuits, and repack to ripen.

This quantity will serve six persons.

APPLE ICE CREAM

     4 large tart apples
     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 tablespoonful of lemon juice

Put half the cream and all the sugar over the fire and stir until the sugar
is dissolved. When the mixture is perfectly cold, freeze it and add the
lemon juice and the apples, pared and grated. Finish the freezing, and
repack to ripen.

The apples must be pared at the last minute and grated into the cream. If
they are grated on a dish and allowed to remain in the air they will turn
very dark and spoil the color of the cream.

BROWN BREAD ICE CREAM

     3 half inch slices of Boston Brown Bread
     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla or
   1/4 of a vanilla bean or a teaspoonful of vanilla extract

Dry and toast the bread in the oven, grate or pound it, and put it through
an ordinary sieve. Heat half the cream and all the sugar; take from the
fire, add vanilla, and, when cold, add the remaining cream, and freeze.
When frozen, remove the dasher, stir in the brown bread, repack and stand
aside to ripen.

This quantity will serve six persons.

CARAMEL ICE CREAM, No. 1

     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Put four tablespoonfuls of the sugar in an iron frying pan over a strong
fire, shake until the sugar melts, turns brown, smokes and burns; add
quickly a half cupful of water; let it boil a minute, take from the fire,
and put it, with all the sugar and half the cream, in a double boiler over
the fire. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, take from the fire, and, when
cold, add the remaining cream and vanilla, and freeze.

This quantity will serve six persons.

CARAMEL ICE CREAM, No. 2

     1 quart of cream
     1 pint of milk
   1/2 cupful of brown sugar
   1/2 pound of granulated sugar
     2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla

Put the brown sugar in a frying pan over the fire, shake it until it melts,
burns and smokes. Take it from the fire and add two tablespoonfuls of
water; heat until the sugar is again melted, put it in a double boiler with
the milk and all the sugar, stir until the sugar is dissolved, and stand
aside to cool. When cold, add half the cream and the vanilla, and freeze.
When frozen sufficiently stiff to remove the dasher, stir in the remaining
pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth, repack and stand aside for three
hours.

This quantity will serve ten persons.

BISQUE ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
   1/4 pound of almond macaroons
     4 kisses
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 slice of stale sponge cake or
     2 stale lady fingers
     1 teaspoonful of caramel
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla
       If you use it, 4 tablespoonfuls of sherry

Pound the macaroons, kisses, lady fingers or sponge cake, and put them
through a colander. Put half the cream and all the sugar over the fire in
a double boiler; when the sugar is dissolved, stand the mixture aside to
cool; when cold, add the remaining cream, the caramel, sherry and vanilla.
Turn the mixture into the freezer, and, when frozen, add the pounded cakes;
stir the mixture until it is perfectly smooth and well mixed, and repack.
Bisque ice cream is better for a three hour stand.

This quantity will serve six persons.

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
     1 pint of milk
   1/2 pound of sugar
     4 ounces of chocolate
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla or 1/4 of a vanilla bean
   1/4 of a teaspoonful of cinnamon

Grate the chocolate, put it in a double boiler with the milk; stir until
hot, and add the sugar, vanilla, cinnamon and one pint of the cream. When
cold, freeze; when frozen, remove the dasher and stir in the remaining pint
of the cream whipped to a stiff froth.

This will serve ten persons.

COFFEE ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of pulverized sugar
     4 ounces of so-called Mocha coffee

Grind the Mocha rather coarse, put it in the double boiler with one half
the cream, and steep over the fire for at least ten minutes. Strain through
a fine muslin or flannel bag, pressing it hard to get out all the strength
of the coffee. Add the sugar and stir until dissolved; when cold, add the
remaining pint of cream and freeze.

This will serve six persons.

CURAÇAO ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
     1 wineglassful of curaçao
   1/2 pound of sugar
     2 tablespoonfuls of orange blossoms water
       Juice of two oranges

Put the sugar and half the cream over the fire in a double boiler. When the
sugar is dissolved, take it from the fire, and, when cold, add the curaçao,
orange juice and orange blossoms water; add the remaining cream, and
freeze.

This will serve six persons.

GINGER ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
   1/4 pound of preserved ginger
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 tablespoonful of lemon juice

Put the ginger through an ordinary meat chopper. Heat the sugar, ginger and
half the cream in a double boiler; when the sugar is dissolved, take it
from the fire, and, when cold, add the lemon juice and remaining cream, and
freeze.

MARASCHINO ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 orange
     2 wineglassfuls of maraschino
     2 drops of Angostura Bitters, or
   1/2 teaspoonful of extract of wild cherry

Put the sugar and half the cream in a double boiler, and stir until the
sugar is dissolved. When cold, add the remaining cream, the juice of the
orange, the bitters or wild cherry, and the maraschino, and freeze.

Serve in parfait glasses to six persons.

LEMON ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
     9 ounces of powdered sugar
     4 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice
       Juice of one orange
       Grated yellow rind of 3 lemons

Mix the sugar, the grated rind and juice of the lemons, and the orange
juice together. Put half the cream in a double boiler over the fire; when
scalding hot, stand it aside until perfectly cold; add the remaining half
of the cream and freeze it rather hard. Remove the crank and the lid, add
the sugar mixture, replace the lid and crank, and turn rapidly for five
minutes; repack to ripen.

This will serve six people.

ORANGE ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
    10 ounces of sugar
       Juice of 6 large oranges
       Grated rind of one orange

Put the sugar, grated yellow rind of the orange and half the cream in a
double boiler over the fire; when the sugar is dissolved, take from the
fire, and, when _very cold_, add the remaining cream, and freeze. When
frozen rather hard, add the orange juice, refreeze, and pack to ripen.

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
    12 ounces of sugar
     1 large ripe pineapple or
     1 pint can of grated pineapple
       Juice of one lemon

Put half the cream and half the sugar in a double boiler over the fire;
when the sugar is dissolved, stand it aside until cold. Pare and grate the
pineapple, add the remaining half of the sugar and stand it aside. When the
cream is cold, add the remaining cream, and partly freeze. Then add the
lemon juice to the pineapple and add it to the frozen cream; turn the
freezer five minutes longer, and repack.

This will serve eight or ten persons.

GREEN GAGE ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
     4 ounces of sugar
     1 pint of preserved green gages, free from syrup

Press the green gages through a sieve. Add the sugar to half the cream,
stir it in a double boiler until the sugar is dissolved; when cold, add the
remaining cream. When this is partly frozen, stir in the green gage pulp,
and finish the freezing as directed on page 7.

If the green gages are colorless, add three or four drops of apple green
coloring to the cream before freezing.

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
     1 quart of raspberries
    12 ounces of sugar
       Juice of one lemon

Mash the raspberries; add half the sugar and the lemon juice. Put the
remaining sugar and half the cream in a double boiler; stir until the sugar
is dissolved, and stand aside to cool; when cold, add the remaining cream,
turn the mixture into the freezer, and stir until partly frozen. Remove the
lid and add the mashed raspberries, and stir again for five or ten minutes
until the mixture is sufficiently hard to repack.

This will serve eight or ten persons.

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM

Make precisely the same as raspberry ice cream, substituting one quart of
strawberries for the raspberries.

PISTACHIO ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of sugar
   1/2 pound of shelled pistachio nuts
     1 teaspoonful of almond extract
    10 drops of green coloring

Blanch and pound or grate the nuts. Put half the cream and all the sugar in
a double boiler; stir until the sugar is dissolved and stand aside to cool;
when cold, add the nuts, the flavoring and the remaining cream, mix, add
the coloring, and turn into the freezer to freeze.

If green coloring matter is not at hand, a little spinach or parsley may be
chopped and rubbed with a small quantity of alcohol.

This quantity will serve six persons,

VANILLA ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 vanilla bean or two teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract

Put the sugar and half the cream in a double boiler over the fire. Split
the vanilla bean, scrape out the seeds and add them to the hot cream, and
add the bean broken into pieces. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, and
strain through a colander. When this is cold, add the remaining cream and
freeze. This should be repacked and given two hours to ripen. Four would be
better.

This will serve six persons.

WALNUT ICE CREAM

     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla
     1 teaspoonful of caramel
   1/2 pint of black walnut meats

Put the sugar and half the cream over the fire in a double boiler; when the
sugar is dissolved, stand it aside to cool. When cold, add the remaining
cream, the walnuts, chopped, and the flavoring, and freeze.

This will serve six persons.

NEAPOLITAN CREAMS

In this group we have a set of frozen desserts called by many "ice creams,"
but which are really frozen custards, flavored. In localities where cream
is not accessible, the Neapolitan Creams are far better than milk thickened
with cornstarch or gelatin.

CHOCOLATE

     1 pint of cream
     1 pint of milk
   1/2 pound of sugar
     4 eggs
     2 ounces of chocolate
     1 small piece of stick cinnamon
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Put the milk and cinnamon over the fire in a double boiler. Beat the yolks
of the eggs and sugar until very light, add the well-beaten whites, and
stir this into the hot milk. As soon as the mixture begins to thicken, take
it from the fire, add the grated chocolate, and, when cold, add the cream
and the vanilla. Freeze and pack as directed on page 7.

This is sufficient to serve ten persons.

CARAMEL

     1 pint of cream
     1 pint of milk
   1/2 pound of sugar
     4 eggs
     3 tablespoonfuls of caramel
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Beat the yolks of the eggs until creamy and add the sugar; beat until
light, and then add the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Put the milk over
the fire in a double boiler; when hot, add the eggs, and stir and cook
until the mixture begins to thicken. Take from the fire, strain through a
fine sieve, add the vanilla and caramel, and, when cold, add the cream, and
freeze.

This will serve ten persons.

COFFEE

     1 pint of strong black coffee
     1 pint of cream
     2 eggs
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Beat the sugar and the yolks of the eggs until light, add the well-beaten
whites, and pour into them the coffee, boiling hot. Stir over the fire for
a minute, take from the fire, add the vanilla, and, when cold, add the
cream, and freeze.

This will serve eight persons.

VANILLA

     1 pint of cream
     1 pint of milk
   1/2 pound of sugar
     3 eggs
   1/4 vanilla bean or a teaspoonful of good extract

Put the milk over the fire in a double boiler, and add the vanilla bean,
split. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar until light, add the whites
beaten to a stiff froth, and stir into them the hot milk. Return the
mixture to the double boiler and cook until it begins to thicken, or will
coat a knife blade dipped into it. Take from the fire, strain through a
colander, and, when cold, add the cream, and freeze. Repack and stand to
ripen for three hours or longer.

This will serve eight persons.

WALNUT

     1 pint of cream
     1 pint of milk
     2 eggs
   1/2 pint of chopped black walnuts
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla
     1 teaspoonful of caramel

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar until light; add the well-beaten
whites, and then the milk, scalding hot. Stir over the fire in a double
boiler until the mixture begins to thicken; take from the fire and add the
vanilla and caramel. When cold, add the walnuts and cream, and freeze.

This will serve eight persons.

NEAPOLITAN BLOCKS

These are made by putting layers of various kinds and colors of ice creams
into a brick mold. Pack and freeze. At serving time, cut into slices
crosswise of the brick, and serve each slice on a paper mat.

ICE CREAMS FROM CONDENSED MILK

These creams are not so good as those made from raw cream, but with care
and good flavoring are quite as good as the ordinary Neapolitan Creams.

There is one advantage--condensed milk is not so liable to curdle when
mixed with fresh fruits. These recipes will answer also for what is sold
under the name of "Evaporated Cream." Use unsweetened milk, or allow for
the sugar in the sweetened varieties.

BANANA

     6 large bananas
   1/4 pound of sugar
     1 half pint can of condensed milk
   1/2 cupful of water
       Juice of one lemon

Press the bananas through a sieve, and add the lemon juice and sugar. Stand
aside a half hour, add milk and water, stir until the sugar is dissolved,
and freeze as directed on page 7.

This will serve six persons.

CARAMEL

   1/4 cupful of brown sugar
   1/2 cupful of granulated sugar
     1 cupful of water
     2 half pint cans of condensed milk
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Put the brown sugar in an iron pan, melt and brown it. When it begins to
smoke, add two tablespoonfuls of hot water. Stir until liquid. Pour out
the milk, rinse the cans with the water, add the caramel, vanilla and
granulated sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, freeze as directed on page
7.

This will serve six persons.

COCOANUT

     2 large cocoanuts
     1 pint of boiling water
   1/2 pint can of sweetened condensed milk

Grate the cocoanuts and pour over them the boiling water. Stir until it is
cool, and press in a sieve. Put the fibre in a cheese cloth and wring it
dry; add this to the water that was strained through the sieve. When cold,
add condensed milk, and freeze as directed on page 7.

This will serve eight persons.

CHOCOLATE, No. 1

     2 ounces of Baker's chocolate
   1/2 pint of water
     1 saltspoonful of ground cinnamon
     2 half pint cans of condensed milk
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla
   1/4 pound of sugar

Put the water, chocolate, sugar and cinnamon in a saucepan; stir until
boiling. Take from the fire, add the vanilla and the condensed milk. When
cold, freeze as directed on page 7.

This will serve six persons.

CHOCOLATE, No. 2

     4 ounces of Baker's chocolate
   1/2 pint of water
   1/2 pound of sugar
     2 half pint cans of condensed milk
     1 pint of milk
     2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla
     1 saltspoonful of ground cinnamon

Put the chocolate, sugar, water and cinnamon in a saucepan over the fire.
Stir until the mixture boils. Take from the fire, and add all the remaining
ingredients. When cold, freeze as directed on page 7.

This will serve eight persons.

COFFEE

     1 pint of strong black coffee
   1/2 cupful of sugar
   1/2 pint can of condensed milk
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Add the sugar to the hot coffee, and stir until it is dissolved; add the
milk, using water enough to rinse out the cans; add the vanilla. When the
mixture is cold, freeze, turning it rapidly toward the end of the freezing.

This will serve four persons.

PEACH

    12 ripe or canned peaches
     4 peach kernels
   1/2 pint of water
     2 half pint cans of unsweetened condensed milk
   1/2 pound of sugar

Put the sugar, water and peach kernels over the fire; stir until the sugar
is dissolved, and boil three minutes. Pare the peaches and press them
through a colander, add to them the strained syrup. When cold, turn the
mixture into the freezer and turn the crank slowly until partly frozen; add
the milk, and continue the freezing.

Omit the water and use less sugar with canned peaches.

This will serve ten persons.

ORANGE, No. 1

     1 full pint of orange juice
   2/3 cupful of sugar
   1/2 pint can of condensed milk
       Grated yellow rind of two oranges

Grate the rinds into the sugar, add milk and enough water to rinse cans.
When sugar is dissolved, stand it in a cold place. Put orange juice in the
freezer and freeze it quite hard; add sweetened milk, and freeze again
quickly.

This will serve four persons.

ORANGE, No. 2

Freeze a full quart of orange juice. When quite hard, add a can of
sweetened condensed milk, freeze it again, and serve at once.

This is very nice and will serve eight persons.

ORANGE GELATIN CREAM

   1/2 pint of orange juice
     1 package of orange Jello
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 pint can of unsweetened condensed milk
   1/2 pint of water

Add the grated yellow rind of two oranges to the Jello; add the sugar and
the water, boiling. Stir until the sugar and Jello are dissolved, add the
orange juice, and when the mixture is cold, put it in the freezer and stir
slowly until it begins to freeze. Add the condensed milk, and continue the
freezing.

This is nice served in tall glasses, with the beaten whites of the eggs
made into a meringue and heaped on top.

In this way it will serve eight persons.

SOUR SOP

     1 large sour sop
   1/4 pound of sugar
   1/2 pint can of unsweetened condensed milk
     4 tablespoonfuls of boiling water
       Juice of one lime

Squeeze the sour sop, which should measure nearly one quart; add the sugar
melted in the water with the lime juice and milk, and freeze slowly.

This will serve ten persons.

FROZEN PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS

ALASKA BAKE

Make a vanilla ice cream, one or two quarts, as the occasion demands. When
the ice cream is frozen, pack it in a brick mold, cover each side of the
mold with letter paper and fasten the bottom and lid. Wrap the whole in wax
paper and pack it in salt and ice; freeze for at least two hours before
serving time. At serving time, make a meringue from the whites of six eggs
beaten to a froth; add six tablespoonfuls of sifted powdered sugar and beat
until fine and dry. Turn the ice cream from the mold, place it on a serving
platter, and stand the platter on a steak board or an ordinary thick plank.
Cover the mold with the meringue pressed through a star tube in a pastry
bag, or spread it all over the ice cream as you would ice a cake. Decorate
the top quickly, and dust it thickly with powdered sugar; stand it under
the gas burners in a gas broiler or on the grate in a hot coal or wood oven
until it is lightly browned, and send it quickly to the table. There is no
danger of the ice cream melting if you will protect the under side of the
plate. The meringue acts as a nonconductor for the upper part.

A two quart mold with meringue will serve ten persons.

ALEXANDER BOMB

     1 pint of cream
     1 pint of milk
     4 eggs
     4 tart apples
     1 pint of water
     1 glassful of orange blossoms water
     1 wineglassful of curaçao
     1 pound of sugar
       Juice of one lemon

Peel, core and quarter the apples; put them in a saucepan with the grated
yellow rind of the lemon, half the sugar and all the water; boil until
tender, and add the juice of the lemon; rub the apples through a sieve.
When cold, freeze. Whip the cream. Beat the eggs and the remaining sugar
and add them to the milk, hot; stir until the mixture thickens, take from
the fire, and, when cold, add the orange blossoms water and the Curaçao;
freeze in another freezer. Divide the whipped cream, and stir one-half into
the first and one-half into the other mixture. Line a melon mold with the
custard mixture, fill the centre space with the frozen apples, and cover
over another layer of the custard; put over a sheet of letter paper and
put on the lid. Bind the seam with a strip of muslin dipped in paraffin or
suet, and pack the mold in salt and ice; freeze for at least two hours.
Serve plain, or it may be garnished with whipped cream.

This will serve twelve persons.

BISCUITS AMERICANA

     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of sugar
   1/4 pound of Jordan almonds
     1 teaspoonful of almond extract
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla
       Yolks of six eggs
       Grated rind of one lemon

Put half the cream in a double boiler over the fire, and, when hot, add
the yolks of the eggs and sugar, beaten until very, very light; add all
the flavoring, and stand aside until very cold; when cold, freeze in an
ordinary freezer. Whip the remaining pint of cream, add one-half of it to
the frozen mixture, repack and stand aside to ripen. Blanch, dry and chop
the almonds. Put them in the oven and shake constantly until they are a
golden brown. At serving time, fill the frozen mixture quickly into paper
cases; have the remaining whipped cream in a pastry bag with star tube,
make a little rosette on the top of each case, dust thickly with the
chopped almonds, and send to the table.

This will fill twelve cases of ordinary size.

BISCUITS GLACÉS

     1 pint of cream
   3/4 pound of sugar
     1 pint of water
     1 gill of sherry
     2 tablespoonfuls of brandy
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla
       Yolks of six eggs

Put the sugar and water in a saucepan over the fire and stir until the
sugar is dissolved; wipe down the sides of the pan, and boil until the
syrup spins a heavy thread or makes a soft ball when dropped into cold
water. Beat the yolks of the eggs to a cream, add them to the boiling
syrup, and with an egg beater whisk over the fire until you have a
custard-like mixture that will thickly coat a knife blade; strain through a
sieve into a bowl, and whisk until the mixture is stiff and cold. It should
look like a very light sponge cake batter. Add the flavoring. Whip the
cream and stir it carefully into the mixture. Fill the mixture into paper
cases or individual dishes, stand them in a freezing cave or in a tin
bucket that is well packed in salt and ice, cover and freeze for at least
four or five hours.

If you do not have a freezing cave, pack a good sized tin kettle in a small
tub or water bucket. The kettle must have a tight fitting lid. Stand your
cases or molds on the bottom of the tin kettle, which is packed in salt and
ice. Put on top a sheet of letter paper, on top of this another other layer
of molds or cases, and so continue until you have the kettle filled. Put
the lid on the kettle and cover with salt and ice. Make sure that you have
a hole half-way up in the packing bucket or tub, so that there is no danger
of salt water overflowing the kettle. This is a homely but very good
freezing cave.

At serving time, dust the tops of the biscuits with grated macaroons or
chopped almonds, dish on paper mats, and send to the table.

This will fill fifteen biscuit cases.

BISCUITS à la MARIE

   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 pint of water
   1/2 pint of cream
   1/2 pound of almond macaroons
   1/4 pound of candied or Maraschino cherries
     1 teaspoonful of bitter almond extract
       Yolks of six eggs

Boil the sugar and water until the syrup will spin a heavy thread. Add the
eggs, beaten until very light. Whip this over the fire for three minutes,
take it from the fire, strain into a bowl, and whip until thick and cold.
Add the flavoring and the macaroons, that have been dried, grated and
sifted. Add the cream, whipped. Fill the mixture into paper cases, and
freeze as directed for Biscuits Glacés.

An extra half pint of cream may be whipped for garnish at serving time, if
desired; otherwise, garnish the top with chopped maraschino cherries, and
send to the table.

This will fill twelve biscuit cases.

BOMB GLACÉ

Pack a two quart bomb glacé mold in salt and ice. Remove the lid, and line
the mold with a quart of well-made vanilla ice cream. Fill the centre with
one half the recipe for Biscuit Glacé mixture, that has been packed in
a freezer until icy cold. Put on the lid, bind the edge with a piece of
muslin dipped in paraffin or suet, cover the mold with salt and ice, and
stand aside three hours to freeze.

This will serve twelve persons.

BISCUIT TORTONI

     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 gill of maraschino
     2 tablespoonfuls of sherry
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla
       Yolks of six eggs

Put half the cream in a double boiler over the fire. Beat the sugar and
yolks together until very, very light, add them to the hot cream and stir
over the fire until the mixture begins to thicken. Take from the fire,
and, when very cold, add the vanilla, maraschino and sherry, and freeze.
When frozen, stir in the remaining cream, whipped to a stiff froth. Fill
individual dishes or paper cases, stand at once in the freezing kettle or
ice cave; pack and freeze from three to four hours.

This will fill twelve cases.

CABINET PUDDING, ICED

     1 quart of milk
     6 eggs
   1/4 pound of powdered sugar
     1 tablespoonful of powdered gelatin
   1/4 pound of macaroons and lady fingers, mixed
   1/2 pound of conserved cherries or pineapple
   1/2 pound of stale sponge cake

Grate the macaroons and lady fingers, and rub them through a coarse sieve.
Cut the sponge cake into slices and then into strips. Put the milk over
the fire in a double boiler and add the eggs and sugar beaten together
until light; stir and cook until the mixture is sufficiently thick to coat
a knife blade. Take from the fire, add the gelatin, strain, and stand
it aside to cool. Garnish the bottom of a two quart melon mold with the
cherries or pineapple, put in a layer of the sponge cake, then a sprinkling
of the macaroons and lady fingers, another layer of the cherries, then the
sponge cake, and so continue until you have all the ingredients used. Add a
teaspoonful of vanilla to the custard, pour it in the mold, cover the mold
with the lid, bind the seam with muslin dipped in paraffin or suet, pack in
salt and ice, and stand aside for three hours.

At serving time, dip the mold quickly into hot water, wipe it off, remove
the lid and turn the pudding on to a cold platter. Pour around a well-made
Montrose Sauce, and send to the table.

This will serve ten or twelve persons.

ICED CAKE

Make an Angel Food or a Sunshine Cake and bake it in a square mold. Make
a plain frozen custard, and flavor it with vanilla; pack it and stand it
aside until serving time. Cut off the top of the cake, take out the centre,
leaving a bottom and wall one inch thick. At serving time, fill the cake
quickly with the frozen custard, replace the top, dust it thickly with
powdered sugar and chopped almonds, and send it to the table with a
sauceboat of cold Montrose Sauce.

This cake may be varied by using different garnishings. Maraschino cherries
may be used in place of almonds, or the base of the cake may be garnished
with preserved green walnuts or green gages, or the top and sides may be
garnished with rosettes of whipped cream.

This will serve twelve persons.

QUICK CARAMEL PARFAIT

Make a quart of Caramel Ice Cream, pack, and stand it aside for two hours.
At serving time, stir in a pint of cream, whipped to a stiff froth, dish
in parfait glasses, and send to the table. The top of the glasses may be
garnished with whipped cream, if desired.

This will fill eight glasses.

QUICK CAFÉ PARFAIT

Make a quart of plain Coffee Ice Cream, freeze and pack it. Whip one pint
of cream. At serving time, stir the whipped cream into the frozen coffee
cream, dish it at once into tall parfait glasses, garnish the top with a
rosette of whipped cream, and send at once to the table.

This will fill eight glasses.

QUICK STRAWBERRY PARFAIT

This is made precisely the same as other parfaits, with Strawberry Ice
Cream, and whipped cream stirred in at serving time. Serve in parfait
glasses, garnish the top with whipped cream, with a strawberry in the
centre on top.

This will fill eight glasses.

QUICK CHOCOLATE PARFAIT

Make one quart of Chocolate Ice Cream, and add one pint of whipped cream,
according to the preceding recipes.

This will serve eight persons.

MONTE CARLO PUDDING

     1 quart of cream
     6 ounces of sugar (2/3 of a cupful)
     4 tablespoonfuls of creme de violette
     1/2 pound of candied violets
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Put half the cream over the fire in a double boiler. Pound or roll the
violets, sift them, add the sugar and sufficient hot cream to dissolve
them. Take the cream from the fire, add the violet sugar, and stir until it
is dissolved; when cold, add the flavoring and the remaining cream. Freeze,
and pack into a two quart pyramid mold; pack in salt and ice for at least
two hours. At serving time, turn the ice on to a platter, garnish the base
with whipped cream, and the whole with candied violets.

This will serve six to eight persons.

BOSTON PUDDING

Make Boston Brown Bread Ice Cream and half the recipe for Tutti Frutti.
When both are frozen, line a melon mold with the Brown Bread Ice Cream,
fill the centre with the Tutti Frutti, cover over more of the Brown Bread
Ice Cream, fasten tightly, and bind the seam of the lid with a strip of
muslin dipped in paraffin or suet. Pack in salt and ice for at least two
hours. At serving time, dip the mold quickly into hot water, turn the
pudding on to a cold platter, pour around the base caramel sauce, and serve
at once.

This will serve twelve persons.

MONTROSE PUDDING

     1 quart of cream
     1 cupful of granulated sugar
     1 tablespoonful of vanilla
     1 pint of strawberry water ice
       Yolks of six eggs

Put half the cream over the fire in a double boiler. Beat the yolks and
sugar together until light, add them to the boiling cream, and cook and
stir for one minute until it begins to thicken. Take from the fire, add the
remaining pint of cream and the vanilla, and stand aside until very cold.
Freeze, and pack into a round or melon mold, leaving a well in the centre.
Fill this well with Strawberry Water Ice that has been frozen an hour
before, and cover it with some of the pudding mixture that you have left in
the freezer. Fasten the lid, bind the seam with a piece of muslin dipped in
suet or paraffin, and pack in salt and ice to stand for not less than two
hours, four is better. Serve with Montrose Sauce poured around it.

This will serve twelve persons.

NESSELRODE PUDDING

     1 pint of Spanish chestnuts
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 pint of boiling water
   1/2 pint of shelled almonds
     1 pound of French candied fruit, mixed
     1 pint of heavy cream
   1/4 pound of candied pineapple
       Yolks of six eggs

Shell the chestnuts, scald and remove the brown skins, cover with boiling
water and boil until they are tender, not too soft, and press them through
a sieve. Shell, blanch and pound the almonds. Cut the fruit into tiny
pieces. Put the sugar and water in a saucepan, stir until the sugar is
dissolved, wipe down the sides of the pan, and boil without stirring until
the syrup forms a soft ball when dropped into ice water. Beat the yolks of
the eggs until very light, add them to the boiling syrup, and stir over
the fire until the mixture again boils; take it from the fire, and with an
ordinary egg beater, whisk the mixture until it is cold and thick as sponge
cake batter. Add the fruit, the chestnuts, almond paste, a teaspoonful of
vanilla and, if you use it, four tablespoonfuls of sherry. Turn the mixture
into the freezer, and, when it is frozen, stir in the cream whipped to a
stiff froth. The mixture may now be repacked in the can, or it may be put
into small molds or one large mold, and repacked for ripening.

If packed in a large mold, this will serve fifteen persons; in the small
molds or paper cases, it will serve eighteen persons.

NESSELRODE PUDDING, AMERICANA

     1 small bottle, or sixteen preserved marrons
     1 quart of cream
     4 ounces of sugar
     4 tablespoonfuls of sherry
     1 tablespoonful of vanilla
       Yolks of six eggs

Put half the cream in a double boiler over the fire; when hot, add the eggs
and sugar beaten until light. Cook a minute, and cool. When cold, add one
small bottle of marrons broken into quarters and the syrup from the bottle,
the sherry and vanilla. Freeze, stirring slowly. When frozen, stir in the
remaining cream whipped to a stiff froth. Pack in small molds in salt and
ice as directed. These should freeze three hours at least.

This will make twelve small molds.

ORANGE SOUFFLÉ

     1 quart of cream
     1 pint of orange juice
   1/2 box of gelatin
   3/4 pound of sugar
       Yolks of six eggs

Cover the gelatin with a half cupful of cold water and soak for a half
hour. Add a half cupful of boiling water, stir until the gelatin is
dissolved, and add the sugar and the orange juice. Beat the yolks of the
eggs until very light. Whip the cream. Add the uncooked yolks to the orange
mixture, strain in the gelatin, stand the bowl in cold water and stir
slowly until the mixture begins to thicken; stir in carefully the whipped
cream, turn it in a mold or an ice cream freezer, pack with salt and ice,
and stand aside three hours to freeze. This should not be frozen as hard as
ice cream, and must not be stirred while freezing. Make sure, however, that
the gelatin is thoroughly mixed with the other ingredients before putting
the mixture into the freezer.

This will serve twelve people.

By changing the flavoring, using lemon in the place of orange, or a pint
of strawberry juice, or a pint of raspberry and currant juice, an endless
variety of soufflés may be made from this same recipe. These may be served
plain, or with Montrose Sauce.

PLOMBIERE

     1 quart of cream
   1/2 pound of Jordan almonds
   1/2 pound of sugar
   1/2 pound of Sultana raisins
       Yolks of six eggs

Blanch the almonds and pound them to a paste, or use a half pound of
ordinary almond paste. Put half the cream in a double boiler over the fire,
add the yolks and sugar beaten to a cream, add the almond paste. Stir until
the mixture begins to thicken, take from the fire and beat with an egg
beater for three minutes. Strain through a fine sieve, and, when very cold,
add the Sultanas and the remaining cream. Freeze, turning the dasher very
slowly at first and more rapidly toward the end. Remove the dasher, scrape
down the sides of the can and pull the cream up, making a well in the
centre. Fill this well half full with apricot jam, cover over the pudding
mixture, making it smooth; repack, and stand aside for two hours.

Serve plain or with a cold Purée of Apricots.

This will serve twelve persons.

QUEEN PUDDING

Make a Strawberry Water Ice or Frozen Strawberries. Pack a three quart mold
in a bucket or tub of ice and salt. Line the mold with the Strawberry Ice,
fill the centre with Tutti Frutti, using half recipe; put on the lid, bind
the seam, and stand aside for at least two hours. When ready to serve, turn
the pudding from the mold into the centre of a large round dish, garnish
the base with whipped cream pressed through a star tube, and garnish the
pudding with candied cherries. Here and there around the base of the
whipped cream place a marron glacé.

This will serve fifteen persons.

ICE CREAM CROQUETTES

Mold vanilla ice cream with the ordinary pyramid ice cream spoon, roll them
quickly in grated macaroons, and serve on a paper mat.

ICED RICE PUDDING WITH A COMPOTE OF ORANGES

FOR THE PUDDING

   1/2 cupful of rice
     1 quart of cream
     1 pint of milk
     2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract or 1/2 vanilla bean
   1/2 pound of sugar
       Yolks of six eggs

Rub the rice in a dry towel, and put it over the fire in a pint of cold
water. Bring to a boil and boil twenty minutes; drain, add the milk and
cook it in a double boiler a half hour. While this is boiling, whip the
cream to a stiff froth, and stand it in a cold place until wanted. Press
the rice through a fine sieve and return it to the double boiler. Beat the
yolks of the eggs and the sugar until light, stir them into the hot rice,
and stir and cook about two minutes, until the mixture begins to thicken.
Take from the fire, add the vanilla, and stand aside until very cold. When
cold, freeze, turning the dasher rapidly toward the last. Remove the dasher
and stir in the whipped cream. Scrape down the sides of the can, and smooth
the pudding. Put on the lid, fasten the hole in the top with a cork, put
over the top a piece of waxed paper, and pack with salt and ice. Stand
aside for at least two or three hours. Be very careful that the hole in the
tub is open, to prevent the salt water from overflowing the can.

FOR THE COMPOTE

     1 dozen nice oranges
     1 pound of sugar
   1/2 cupful of water
     1 teaspoonful of lemon juice

Put the sugar and water over the fire to boil, wipe down the sides of the
pan, skim the syrup, add the lemon juice, and boil until it spins a thread.
Peel the oranges, cut them into halves crosswise, and with a sharp knife
remove the cores. Dip one piece at a time into the hot syrup and place them
on a platter to cool. Pour over any syrup that may be left.

This syrup must be thick, but not sufficiently thick to harden on the
oranges.

To dish the pudding, lift the can from the ice, wipe it carefully on the
outside, wrap the bottom of the mold in a towel dipped in boiling water,
or hold it half an instant under the cold water spigot. Then with a limber
knife or spatula loosen the pudding from the side of the can and shake it
out into the centre of a large round plate. Heap the oranges on top of
the pudding, making them in a pyramid, put the remaining quantity around
the base of the pudding, pour over the syrup and send to the table. This
pudding sounds elaborate and troublesome, but it is exceedingly palatable
and one of the handsomest of all frozen dishes.

This will serve twenty persons. In ice cream stem dishes it will serve
twenty-four persons.

SULTANA ROLL

 1-1/2 quarts of cream
   1/2 pound of granulated sugar
   1/2 cupful of Sultanas
     4 tablespoonfuls of sherry
     2 ounces of shelled pistachio nuts
     1 teaspoonful of almond extract
    10 drops of green coloring

Put one pint of cream and the sugar over the fire in a double boiler, and
stir until the sugar is dissolved; take from the fire, and, when cold, add
a pint of the remaining cream. Chop the pistachio nuts very fine or put
them through the meat grinder, add them to the cream and add the flavoring
and coloring, and freeze. Whip the remaining pint of cream to a stiff
froth. Sprinkle the Sultanas with sherry and let them stand while you are
freezing the pudding. When the pudding is frozen, remove the dasher and
line a long round mold with the pistachio cream. If nothing better is at
hand, use pound baking powder cans, and line them to the depth of one inch.
Add the Sultanas to the whipped cream and stir in two tablespoonfuls of
powdered sugar. Fill the spaces in the cans with the whipped cream mixture,
and put another layer of the pistachio cream over the top. Put on the lids,
wrap each can in waxed paper, and put them down into coarse salt and ice,
to freeze for at least two hours. At serving time, turn the puddings on to
a long platter, fill the bottom of the platter with Claret or Strawberry
Sauce, and send to the table.

This quantity cut into half inch slices will serve twelve persons.

SULTANA PUDDING

     1 pint of milk
     1 pint of cream
     6 ounces of sugar
     1 cupful of Sultanas
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla
     4 tablespoonfuls of sherry (if you use it)
       Yolks of four eggs

Put the milk in a double boiler, and, when hot, add the yolks and sugar
beaten together; stir until this begins to thicken. Take from the fire, add
the vanilla, and, when cold, freeze it. Put the sherry over the Sultanas.
Garnish the bottom of a melon mold with the Sultanas, pack it in coarse ice
and salt ready for the frozen pudding. Remove the dasher from the frozen
mixture, and stir in the cream that has been whipped to a stiff froth. Add
the remainder of the Sultanas and pack at once into the mold; put on the
lid and fasten as directed in other recipes.

This may be served plain or with whipped cream garnished with Sultanas.

This will serve eight persons.

THE MERRY WIDOW

Dish a pyramid of vanilla ice cream into a stem individual ice cream glass.
Garnish the base of the ice cream with fresh strawberries, dust the
cream thickly with toasted piñon nuts, and baste the whole with four
tablespoonfuls of Claret Sauce flavored with two tablespoonfuls of rum.

TUTTI FRUTTI PUDDING

     1 pint of milk
     1 pint of cream
   1/2 pint of mixed candied fruits
     4 eggs
     1 cupful of sugar
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla
     2 tablespoonfuls of sherry
     1 tablespoonful of brandy

Put the milk over the fire in a double boiler, add the yolks of the eggs
and the sugar beaten together until light. When the mixture begins to
thicken, take it from the fire and stand it aside until perfectly cold. Add
all the flavorings. When the mixture is cold, add the cream, and partly
freeze it; then add the fruit, and freeze to the right consistency. This
should be packed at least two hours to ripen.

This will serve eight persons.

TUTTI FRUTTI, ITALIAN FASHION

   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 pint of water
     1 pint of cream
   1/2 pint of chopped mixed candied fruits
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla
     4 tablespoonfuls of sherry
       Yolks of six eggs

Pour the sherry over the fruit. Beat the yolks until creamy. Put the sugar
and water over the fire, stir until the sugar is dissolved, and boil five
minutes; add the yolks of the eggs, beat until it again reaches the boiling
point, take from the fire and beat until cold and thick. Add the cream, the
fruit and the vanilla. Freeze as directed on page 7.

This is usually served in small ice cream glasses garnished with whipped
cream, or may be served plain. In the absence of ice cream glasses, use
ordinary punch glasses.

This will fill ten glasses.

LALLA ROOKH

Fill a lemonade or ice cream glass two-thirds full of vanilla ice cream.
Make a little well in the centre and fill the space with rum and sherry
mixed. Allow four tablespoonfuls of rum and six of sherry to each half
dozen cups.

PEACHES MELBA

Dish a helping of vanilla ice cream in the centre of the serving plate,
place in the centre of the ice cream a whole brandied peach, press it down
into the ice cream, baste over four tablespoonfuls of Claret Sauce, and
serve.

LILLIAN RUSSELL

Cut into halves small very cold cantaloupes. Remove the seeds; fill the
centres of the half melons with vanilla ice cream, and garnish with whipped
cream pressed through a small star tube. Dish the halves on paper mats on a
dessert plate, and send to the table.

ARROWROOT CREAM

     1 quart of milk
     6 ounces of sugar
     1 level tablespoonful of arrowroot
     2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla

Moisten the arrowroot with a little cold milk; put the remaining milk in a
double boiler; when hot, add the arrowroot and cook ten minutes; add the
sugar, take from the fire, and add the vanilla, When perfectly cold, freeze
as directed on page 7.

This will serve six persons.

ENGLISH APRICOT CREAM

   1/2 pint of apricot jam
     1 pint of cream
   1/2 pint of milk
     2 tablespoonfuls of noyau
       Juice of one lemon

Mix the jam and the cream, then carefully add the noyau and the lemon
juice. Press through a fine sieve, add the milk, and freeze as directed on
page 7.

This will serve six persons.

FROZEN CUSTARD

     1 quart of milk
     6 ounces of sugar
     2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla
       Yolks of four eggs

Put the milk in a double boiler, add the yolks of the eggs and the sugar
beaten together, and stir until the mixture thickens. Take from the fire,
and, when cold, add the vanilla. Turn into the freezer and freeze as
directed. A little chopped conserved fruit may be added at last when the
dasher is removed. Chopped black walnuts may also be added.

This will serve six persons.

GELATIN ICE CREAM

     1 quart of milk
   1/2 pint of cream
     6 ounces of sugar
     1 tablespoonful of granulated gelatin
     2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla

Cover the gelatin with a little cold milk and stand it aside for fifteen
minutes. Put the remaining milk in a double boiler; when scalding hot, add
the sugar and the gelatin; stir until the sugar is dissolved, take from the
fire, and, when perfectly cold, add the cream and the vanilla. Freeze as
directed on page 7.

This will serve six persons.

FROZEN PLUM PUDDING

     2 pint cans of condensed milk
   1/2 cupful of seeded raisins
   1/2 pound of sugar
    24 almonds that have been blanched and chopped
     2 ounces of shredded citron
   1/4 pound of candied cherries
     2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla
     2 tablespoonfuls of sherry
   1/2 pint of water
       Yolks of four eggs

Put milk in a double boiler over the fire, and stir until the milk is
thoroughly heated; add the yolks of the eggs and the sugar beaten together,
cook until it begins to thicken, take from the fire and strain. When cold,
add the citron, raisins, the cherries cut into quarters, the almonds,
vanilla and sherry. When this is perfectly cold, freeze as directed. Do not
repack or allow the mixture to stand in the freezer more than a half hour.

Serve plain or with Montrose Sauce.

One quart of good rich milk may be used in place of the condensed milk.

This will serve twelve persons.

CHARLOTTE GLACÉ

Make a quart of vanilla ice cream and stir into it a pint of cream whipped
to a stiff froth. Line round stiff paper charlotte boxes with lady fingers,
fill them with the iced mixture, and place them at once in a can or bucket
packed in salt and ice to freeze for one or two hours.

This quantity will fill twelve boxes.

MAPLE PANACHÉE

Fill stem ice cream dishes half full with caramel ice cream; on top put a
layer of vanilla ice cream. Smooth it down and dust thickly with toasted
pecan nuts chopped fine.

A pint of each cream will fill six dishes.

GERMAN CHERRY BISCUITS

Fill paper cases half full of pineapple water ice. Put over a layer of
candied cherries chopped, then a layer of vanilla ice cream; smooth it
quickly, place a marron glacé in the centre, and garnish the cream with
a meringue made from the whites of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of
powdered sugar. Dust this with grated macaroons, and send to the table.
Make the meringue and grate the macaroons before dishing the ice cream.

A pint of each cream will fill eight cases.

FRUIT SALAD, ICED

Make one quart of lemon or orange water ice and stand it aside for at least
one or two hours to ripen. Make a fruit salad from stemmed strawberries,
sliced bananas cut into tiny bits, a few very ripe cherries, a grated
pineapple if you have it, and the pulp of four or five oranges. After the
water ice is frozen rather hard, pack it in a border mold, put on the lid
or cover and bind the seam with a strip of muslin dipped in paraffin or
suet, and repack to freeze for three or four hours. Sweeten the fruit
combination, if you like, add a tablespoonful or two of brandy and sherry,
and stand this on the ice until _very cold_. At serving time, turn the mold
of water ice on to a round compote dish, quickly fill the centre with fruit
salad, garnish the outside with fresh roses or violets, and send at once to
the table.

This will serve eight or ten persons at luncheon.

COUPE ST. JACQUE

Make a fruit salad as in preceding recipe. Make a pint of orange or
strawberry ice. At serving time fill parfait or ice cream glasses half full
of the fruit salad, fill the remaining half with water ice, smooth it over,
garnish the top with whipped cream, put a maraschino cherry in the centre,
and serve. Other fruits may be used for the salad.

This should make twelve tumblers.

WATER ICES AND SHERBETS OR SORBETS

A water ice is a mixture of water, fruit and sugar, frozen without much
stirring; in fact, a water ice can be made in an ordinary tin kettle packed
in a bucket. If an ice cream freezer is used, the stirring should be done
occasionally. Personally, I prefer to pack the can, put on the lid and
fasten the hole with a cork rather than to use the dasher, stirring now and
then with a paddle. If you use the crank, turn slowly for a few minutes,
then allow the mixture to stand for five minutes; turn slowly again, and
again rest, and continue this until the water ice is frozen. A much longer
time is required for freezing water ice than ice cream.

When the mixture is thoroughly frozen, take out the dasher, scrape down the
sides of the can, give the ice a thorough beating with a wooden spoon; put
the cork in the lid of the can, draw the water from the tub, repack it with
coarse ice and salt, cover it with paper and a piece of blanket or burlap,
and stand aside for two or three hours to ripen just as you would ice
cream.

When it is necessary to make water ice every day or two, it is best to make
a syrup and stand it aside ready for use.

Fruit jellies may be used in the place of fresh fruits, allowing one pint
of jelly, the juice of one lemon and a half pound of sugar to each quart of
water.

When water ice is correctly frozen, it has the appearance of hard wet snow.
It must not be frothy nor light.

A sherbet or sorbet is made from the same mixture as a water ice, stirred
constantly while it is freezing, and has a meringue, made from the white of
one egg and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, stirred in after the dasher
is removed.

APPLE ICE

     1 pound of tart apples
     1 cupful of sugar
     1 pint of water
       Juice of one lemon or lime

Quarter and core the apples, but do not pare them. Slice them, add the
water, cover and stew until tender, about five minutes. Press through a
sieve, add the sugar and lemon juice. When cold, freeze as directed. Serve
in lemonade glasses at dinner with roasted duck, goose or pork.

This will serve six persons.

APRICOT ICE

     1 quart can of apricots
   1/2 cupful of sugar
     1 pint of water
       Juice of one lemon

Press the apricots through a sieve, add all the other ingredients, and
serve. This is nice served in lemonade glasses for afternoon tea. Pass
sweet wafers.

This will serve eight persons.

CHERRY ICE

     2 full quarts of sour cherries
     1 pound of sugar
     1 quart of water

Stew the cherries in the water for ten minutes and press through a sieve,
add the sugar, and, if you have it, two drops of Angostura Bitters; when
cold, freeze it as directed on page 63.

This will serve ten persons.

CURRANT WATER ICE

     1 pint of currant juice
     1 pound of sugar
     1 pint of boiling water

Add the sugar to the water, and stir over the fire until it is dissolved.
Boil five minutes, take from the fire; when cool, add the currant juice.
When cold, freeze as directed on page 63.

This will serve six persons.

CURRANT AND RASPBERRY WATER ICE

     1 pint of currant juice
     1 pint of raspberry juice
     1 pint of water
   3/4 pound of sugar

Add the sugar to the water, stir until boiling, boil five minutes, and,
when cool, add the raspberry and currant juices, and freeze as directed.

This will serve six persons; in punch glasses, eight persons.

GRAPE WATER ICE

     1 pint of grape juice
     1 quart of water
     1 pound of sugar
       Juice of one lemon

Boil the sugar and water together for five minutes, take from the fire, add
the lemon juice, and skim. When cold, add the grape juice, and freeze as
directed.

If fresh grapes are to be used, select Muscatels or Concords. Pulp the
grapes, boil the pulps, press them through a sieve, and add the skins and
the pulps to the sugar and water. Boil five minutes, press as much as
possible through a sieve, and freeze.

This will serve eight persons.

LEMON WATER ICE

     4 large lemons
     1 quart of water
 1-1/4 pounds of sugar

Grate the yellow rind of two lemons into the sugar, add the water, stir
over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and boil for five minutes.
Strain, and stand aside to cool. When cold, add the juice of the lemons,
and freeze as directed on page 63.

This will serve six persons.

GINGER WATER ICE

     6 ounces of preserved ginger
     4 lemons
     1 quart of water
     1 pound of sugar

Put four ounces of the ginger through an ordinary meat grinder, and cut
the remaining two ounces into fine bits. Boil the sugar and water together
for five minutes, and add the lemon juice and ground ginger. Take from the
fire, add the bits of ginger, and, when cold, freeze as directed. Ginger
water ice is better for a two hour stand, after it is frozen. Nice to serve
with roasted or braised beef.

This will serve six persons; in small punch glasses, eight.

MILLE FRUIT WATER ICE

   1/2 pint of grape juice
     6 lemons
     1 orange
     4 tablespoonfuls of sherry
   1/2 pound of preserved cherries or pineapple, or both mixed
 1-1/2 pounds of sugar
     1 quart of water

Grate the yellow rind of the orange and one lemon into the sugar, add the
water, stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, boil five minutes,
and strain. Add the fruit cut into small pieces, the juice of the orange
and the lemons; when cold, add the grape juice and sherry, and freeze,
using the dasher. Do not stir rapidly, but stir continuously, as slowly as
possible. When the mixture is frozen, remove the dasher and repack the can;
ripen at least two hours.

This is one of the nicest of all the water ices, and may be served on the
top of Coupe St. Jacque, or at dinner in sherbet glasses with roasted veal
or beef.

This will serve ten persons.

ORANGE WATER ICE

    12 large oranges
     1 pound of sugar
     1 quart of water

Grate the yellow rind from three oranges into the sugar, add the water,
boil five minutes, and strain; when cold, add the orange juice, and freeze
as directed for water ices.

This will serve ten persons.

POMEGRANATE WATER ICE

    12 good sized pomegranates
     1 pint of water
     1 pound of sugar

Cut the pomegranates into halves, remove the seeds carefully from the
inside bitter skin; press them with a potato masher in the colander,
allowing the juice to run through into a bowl; be careful not to mash the
seeds. Add the sugar to the juice and stir until it is dissolved; then add
the water, cold, and freeze. This is very nice to serve with a meat course,
and also nice for the garnish of a fruit salad.

This will serve six persons.

PINEAPPLE WATER ICE

     2 ripe pineapples or
     1 quart can of grated pineapple
     1 quart of water
 1-1/2 pounds of sugar
       Juice of two lemons

Pare the pineapples, remove the eyes, and grate the fruit into the water.
Add the sugar and lemon juice, boil five minutes, and, when cold, freeze as
directed on page 63.

This will serve ten persons.

STRAWBERRY WATER ICE

     1 quart of strawberries
     1 pound of sugar
     1 quart of water
       Juice of two lemons

Add the sugar and the lemon juice to the stemmed strawberries, let them
stand one hour; mash them through a colander, and then, if you like, strain
through a fine sieve. Add the water, and freeze as directed on page 63.

This will serve eight persons.

RASPBERRY WATER ICE

     1 quart of red raspberries
     1 pound of sugar
     1 quart of water
       Juice of two lemons

Add the sugar and the lemon juice to the raspberries, stir and stand aside
one hour. Press through a sieve, add the water, and freeze as directed on
page 63.

This will serve eight persons.

ROMAN PUNCH

Make one quart of lemon water ice. When ready to serve, fill it into small
punch glasses, make a little well in the centre and fill the space with
good Jamaica rum.

This will serve eight persons.

SOUR SOP SHERBET OR ICE

Squeeze the juice from one large sour sop, strain, and add four
tablespoonfuls of sugar, boiled a moment with four tablespoonfuls of water.
Freeze as directed on page 63.

A quart of sour sop when frozen will serve six persons.

CRANBERRY SHERBET

     1 pint of cranberries
   1/2 pound of sugar
   1/2 pint of water

Add the water to the cranberries, cover, bring to a boil; press through a
colander, return them to the fire, add the sugar, and stir until the sugar
dissolves. Take from the fire, and, when cold, freeze, stirring slowly all
the while.

Serve with the meat course at dinner.

This will serve eight persons.

CUCUMBER SORBET

     2 large cucumbers
     2 tart apples
     1 pint of water
     1 teaspoonful of sugar
   1/2 teaspoonful of salt
     1 tablespoonful of gelatin
     1 saltspoonful of black pepper
       Juice of one lemon

Peel the cucumbers, cut them into halves and remove the seeds. Dissolve the
gelatin in a half cupful of hot water. Grate the flesh of the cucumbers;
grate the apples, add them to the cucumbers, and add all the other
ingredients. Freeze as you would ordinary sherbet.

Serve in tiny glasses, with boiled cod or halibut.

This will fill eight small stem glasses.

GOOSEBERRY SORBET

   1/2 pint of gooseberry jam
     4 tablespoonfuls of sugar
     1 pint of water
       Juice of one lemon

Mix all the ingredients together and freeze, turning slowly all the while.
Serve in small glasses.

This is usually served at Christmas dinner with goose.

This will serve six persons.

ORANGE SHERBET

     1 pint of orange juice
     2 tablespoonfuls of gelatin
   3/4 pound of sugar
     1 pint of water

Cover the gelatin with an extra half cupful of cold water and soak for a
half hour. Add the sugar to the pint of water and stir it over the fire
until it boils; add the grated yellow rind of two oranges and the juice;
strain through a fine sieve and freeze, turning the freezer slowly all the
while. Remove the dasher, stir in a meringue made from the white of one
egg, and repack to ripen for an hour at least.

This will serve six persons.

MINT SHERBET

     2 dozen stalks of spearmint
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 quart of water
       Juice of three lemons

Strip the leaves from the stalks of the mint, chop them to a pulp and rub
them with the sugar. Add the water, bring to a boil, boil five minutes,
and, when cold, add three drops of green coloring and the juice of the
lemons; strain and freeze, turning slowly all the while.

Serve at dinner with mutton or lamb.

This will serve six persons; in small stem glasses, eight persons.

TOMATO SORBET OR SHERBET

     1 quart can or 12 fresh tomatoes
     1 slice of onion
     1 blade of mace
     1 saltspoonful of celery seed
     1 pint of water
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 teaspoonful of paprika
     1 tablespoonful of gelatin
       Juice of one lemon
       A dash of cayenne

Add all the ingredients to the tomatoes, stir over the fire until the
mixture reaches the boiling point, boil five minutes, and strain through a
fine sieve. When this is cold, freeze according to the rule for sherbets,
turning slowly all the time.

Serve in punch glasses at dinner as an accompaniment to roasted beef, or
venison, or saddle of mutton.

If fresh tomatoes are used, simply cut them into halves and cook them
without peeling.

This will fill nine or ten punch glasses.

FROZEN FRUITS

Frozen fruits are mixed and frozen the same as water ices, that is, they
are only stirred occasionally while freezing, but the fruit must be mashed
or it will form little balls of ice through a partly frozen mixture. The
only difference between a water ice and a frozen fruit is that the mixture
is not strained, and more fruit and less water is used. If canned fruits
are used, and these recipes followed, cut down the sugar. Cream may be used
in place of water with sub-acid fruits.

FROZEN APRICOTS

     1 quart of apricots
     2 tablespoonfuls of gelatin
     1 cupful of sugar
     1 pint of cream

Drain the apricots from the can, mash them through a colander, add the
sugar and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Cover the gelatin with a half
cupful of cold water and soak for a half hour. Stand it over hot water,
stir until dissolved, add it to the apricot mixture, and freeze. When
frozen, remove the dasher and stir in the cream whipped to a stiff froth.
Repack and stand aside two hours to ripen.

This will serve ten persons.

FROZEN BANANAS

    12 large ripe bananas
     1 pound of sugar
   1/2 pint of water
     1 pint of cream
       Juice of two lemons

Peel the bananas and mash them through a colander. Add the sugar to the
water, and boil five minutes; when cold, add the lemon juice and the
bananas. Put the mixture into a freezing can, stir slowly until frozen.
Remove the dasher and stir in carefully the cream whipped to a stiff froth.

This will serve ten or twelve persons.

FROZEN CHOCOLATE

     1 quart of milk
     3 ounces of chocolate
   2/3 cupful of sugar
     1 pint of water
   1/2 pint of cream, whipped
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Grate the chocolate and put it in a double boiler with the water and sugar;
let the water in the surrounding boiler boil fifteen minutes, beat well,
and add the milk. Stir until thoroughly mixed, and the milk is very hot.
Take from the fire, add the vanilla, and when the mixture is cold, freeze,
turning slowly all the while. Serve in chocolate cups with the whipped
cream on top.

This will fill nine chocolate cups.

FROZEN PINEAPPLE

     2 large pineapples
     1 quart of water
     1 pound of sugar
       Juice of one lemon

Peel the pineapples and grate them. Add the sugar to the water, stir until
the sugar is dissolved, boil five minutes and cool; add the pineapple and
lemon juice, and freeze, turning the freezer slowly.

This will serve eight or ten persons.

FROZEN COFFEE

     1 quart of cold water
   1/2 pound of sugar
     6 heaping tablespoonfuls of finely ground coffee
   1/2 pint of cream

Put the coffee and the water in a double boiler over the fire, and let the
water in the surrounding boiler boil for at least twenty minutes after it
begins to boil. Strain through two thicknesses of cheese cloth, add the
sugar, stir until the sugar is dissolved, and stand aside until very cold.
Add the cream and the unbeaten white of one egg. Freeze, turning the
freezer slowly. This should be the consistency of a soft mush and very
light.

Serve in coffee cups, either plain or with whipped cream on top.

This will serve six persons,

FROZEN PEACHES, No. 1

     2 pounds of very ripe peaches
     6 peach kernels
     1 pint of water
   1/2 pound of sugar
       Juice of one lemon

Crack the kernels, chop them fine, add them to the sugar, add the water,
and boil five minutes; strain and stand aside to cool. Pare the peaches,
press them through a colander, add them to the cold syrup, turn into the
freezer, and stir slowly until the mixture is frozen. If the peaches are
colorless, add a few drops of cochineal before freezing.

This will serve eight persons.

FROZEN PEACHES, No. 2

     1 quart of peach pulp
     1 pint of cream
   3/4 pound of sugar
       Juice of one lemon

Add the lemon juice to the peach pulp, add the sugar, and stand aside,
stirring every now and then until the sugar is dissolved. Freeze the
mixture, stirring slowly; when frozen, remove the dasher, and fold in the
cream whipped to a stiff froth.

This is one of the nicest ices for afternoon or evening collations.

This will serve eight persons; in stem glasses, ten persons.

FROZEN RASPBERRIES

     1 quart of raspberries
   3/4 pound of sugar
     1 pint of water
       Juice of one lemon

Add the sugar and the lemon juice to the berries, mash them with a potato
masher. Let them stand one hour, add the water, and freeze.

This will serve eight persons.

FROZEN WATERMELON

Scrape the centre from a very ripe watermelon, chop quickly and press
through a colander. To each pint of this juice, add a half cupful of sugar
and four tablespoonfuls of sherry. Freeze until it is like wet snow. Serve
in glasses. One pint will fill three stem glasses.

FROZEN STRAWBERRIES

     1 quart of very ripe strawberries
     1 pound of sugar
     1 pint of water
       Juice of one lemon

Add the sugar and lemon juice to the berries, let them stand one hour. Mash
the berries through a colander, add the water, and freeze, turning the
dasher constantly but very slowly.

This will serve eight persons.

FRAPPÉ

A frappé is nothing more nor less than a water ice partly frozen. For
instance, Café Frappé is a partly frozen coffee. The mixture looks like
wet snow. A Champagne Frappé is champagne packed in salt and ice and the
bottles agitated until the champagne is partly frozen.

PARFAIT

A parfait is a dessert made from frozen whipped cream, sweetened and
flavored. An old fashioned parfait was not frozen in an ice cream freezer;
the mixture was packed at once into a mold, the mold packed in salt and ice
to freeze for two or three hours. To be perfect, the mixture must be frozen
on the outside to the depth of one and a half to two inches, with a soft
centre. The quick parfait given under frozen desserts is now in general
use.

MOUSSE

A mousse is a parfait frozen to the centre. These mixtures are not smooth
like ice cream, but are frozen in crystals and to be exactly correct,
should look like moss when cut.

BURNT ALMOND MOUSSE

   1/4 pound of Jordan almonds
     2 ounces of almond paste
   2/3 cupful of powdered sugar
     1 pint of thick cream
     1 teaspoonful of almond extract

Whip the cream to a very stiff froth. Blanch, toast and grind the almonds,
putting them through an ordinary meat grinder; rub them with the almond
paste, adding the extract and about two tablespoonfuls of water or sherry.
Sprinkle the sugar over the whipped cream, and then fold in the nut
mixture. Pack at once into a mold, put on the lid, fasten the seam with a
strip of muslin dipped in paraffin or melted suet, and pack in coarse salt
and ice to freeze for two or three hours.

Serve plain or dusted with chopped almonds.

This will serve six persons.

COFFEE MOUSSE

     1 pint of cream
   1/2 cupful of powdered sugar
     2 tablespoonfuls of coffee extract

Whip the cream to a stiff froth, sprinkle over the sugar, add the coffee
extract, and, when well mixed, pack and freeze.

This will serve six persons.

EGYPTIAN MOUSSE

   1/2 cupful of rice
     1 tablespoonful of gelatin
   2/3 cupful of sugar
   1/4 pound of dates
   1/2 pint of milk
     1 pint of cream
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Wash the rice, throw it into boiling water, boil rapidly twenty minutes;
drain, add the milk, and cook in a double boiler fifteen minutes. Add the
sugar, the gelatin that has been moistened in cold water, and the dates
chopped. Take from the fire, add the vanilla, and when the mixture is cold,
fold in carefully the whipped cream. Freeze as directed in a mold, and
serve with cold quince jelly sauce.

This will serve ten persons.

DUCHESS MOUSSE

     4 eggs
   1/2 cupful of sugar
     1 pint of cream
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla
     5 drops of cochineal

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar until very, very light; fold
in the whites of the eggs and the flavoring. Stand the bowl in a pan of
boiling water and beat continuously until the ingredients are hot; take
from the fire and beat constantly for ten minutes. When this is cool, fold
in the cream whipped to a stiff froth, pack and freeze.

Serve with quince jelly sauce poured over the mousse.

This will serve eight persons.

PISTACHIO MOUSSE

     4 ounces of pistachio nuts
     1 tablespoonful of gelatin
     1 pint of water
     1 pint of cream
   1/2 pound of sugar
     1 teaspoonful of almond extract
     3 drops of green coloring

Blanch the pistachio nuts and put them through a meat grinder. Boil
the sugar and water for five minutes; when cool, add the coloring, the
pistachio nuts, and the gelatin moistened in a little cold water. When this
is cold, fold in the cream beaten to a stiff froth, and freeze in a mold as
directed.

If this is not too well mixed the cream will separate, which makes the
handsomer dessert. When the mousse is turned from the mold it will then
have a solid white base with a rather green, beautiful transparent mixture
at the top.

This will serve ten persons.

RICE MOUSSE WITH A COMPOTE OF MANDARINS

   1/2 cupful of rice
     1 tablespoonful of gelatin
   2/3 cupful of sugar
     1 pint of milk
     1 pint of cream
   1/4 pound of candied cherries
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Wash and boil the rice in water for twenty minutes, drain, put it in a
double boiler with the milk and sugar; stir until the sugar is dissolved,
cover the kettle and cook slowly for twenty minutes. Press through a sieve,
add the vanilla, and the gelatin covered with cold water. When this is
cold, fold in the cream whipped to a stiff froth; pack and freeze.

I usually freeze this in the ordinary ice cream can; simply remove the
dasher, put in the mixture and pack it to freeze for two or three hours.

While this is ripening, separate the mandarins into carpels. Boil together
for five minutes one pound of sugar, a half pint of water and the juice of
one lemon; take from the fire, add at once the carpels, stir lightly until
they are thoroughly covered with the syrup and stand aside until _very
cold_.

At serving time, wipe the outside of the freezing can with a warm towel,
turn the mousse into the centre of a round dish, heap the carpels around
the base and over the top in the form of a pyramid, pour over the syrup,
and send at once to the table.

This will serve twelve persons.

SAUCES FOR ICE CREAMS

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE

   1/2 cupful of cream or condensed milk
     2 ounces of chocolate
     1 cupful of sugar
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Put all the ingredients into a saucepan and stir over the fire until they
reach boiling point, boil until the mixture slightly hardens when dropped
into cold water. Add the vanilla, turn at once into the sauceboat and send
to the table. This must be sufficiently thin to dip nicely over the ice
cream.

MAPLE SAUCE

     1 cupful of sugar
     1 teaspoonful of lemon juice
     1 cupful of water
     1 teaspoonful of maple flavoring

Put half the sugar in an iron saucepan and stand it over the fire until it
melts and browns, add hastily the water, the remaining sugar and the lemon
juice, and boil for about two minutes; take from the fire and add the
flavoring. This may be served plain, or with chopped fruit or nuts added.

CLARET SAUCE

Boil one cupful of sugar and a half cupful of water with a saltspoonful of
cream of tartar for five minutes. Take from the fire and add one cupful of
claret, and stand aside until icy cold.

NUT SAUCE

     1 cupful of sugar
   1/2 cupful of chopped nuts
     1 cupful of water
     1 teaspoonful of caramel
     2 teaspoonfuls of sherry

Boil the sugar and water with a saltspoonful of cream of tartar or a
teaspoonful of lemon juice for five minutes, take from the fire and add all
the other ingredients, and stand aside to cool.

MONTROSE SAUCE

   1/2 tablespoonful of granulated gelatin
   1/4 cupful of sugar
   1/2 cupful of milk
     1 pint of cream
     2 tablespoonfuls of brandy
     1 teaspoonful of vanilla
       Yolks of 3 eggs

Cover the gelatin with milk, let it soak a half hour, and put it, with the
milk, in a double boiler over the fire. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the
sugar together, add them to the hot milk, stir about one minute until the
mixture begins to thicken, take from the fire, and, when cold, add the
vanilla and the brandy, and, if you like it, four tablespoonfuls of sherry.
Stand this aside until very, very cold.

ORANGE SAUCE

   1/2 pint of orange juice
   1/2 pint of water
   1/2 cupful of sugar
     1 tablespoonful of arrowroot
       Whites of three eggs

Add the sugar to the water, and, when boiling hot, add the arrowroot
moistened. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add gradually the
hot mixture, beating all the while. Add the orange juice, beat again. Turn
it into a sauceboat and stand aside until very cold.

WALNUT SAUCE

Melt maple sugar with a little water, and add to each cupful of syrup a
half cupful of chopped black walnuts. Maple syrup may also be used by
adding half the quantity of boiling water and the nuts.

REFRESHMENTS FOR AFFAIRS

In arranging this matter, I have made an earnest effort to be of service
to the housewife without or with one maid, as well as to those who are
fortunate enough to have trained help.

It is, perhaps, unnecessary to say that elaborate refreshments are entirely
out of place at small afternoon or evening cards. An ice, with a wafer,
or cake and coffee, served on card tables, are sufficient. A salad, with
bread and butter sandwiches and coffee, or a salad sandwich with coffee,
make a nice combination. Hot dishes, even light entrées, seem to call
for a dessert, or another course and coffee. For wedding and other large
receptions serve a greater variety of dishes--jellied meats, boned chicken,
salads, sandwiches, ices, cakes and coffee. In winter creamed dishes may be
served in paper cases on the same plate with salads and other cold dishes.
Serve coffee in small cups after refreshments.

Many so called elaborate dishes are quite easily made, and entrées are
frequently quite as good when rewarmed.

Chicken croquettes may be made and fried early in the day, ready to rewarm
on brown paper in a baking pan in a hot oven ten minutes before serving
time. Sandwiches will keep perfectly well for several hours if wrapped in
a damp towel and closed in a tin bread box. Salad sandwiches are better,
however, if made as near serving time as possible.

If a large reception is to be given, even with good help, prepare as many
dishes as possible the day before, to avoid confusion on the fixed day.

Refreshments for small affairs need not necessarily cost much time or
money. A half cupful of chopped left-over steak, a couple of chops or a bit
of chicken or a box of sardines, make a good foundation for molds of tomato
jelly. Served with bread and butter sandwiches and coffee they are quite
sufficient for afternoon or evening cards.

Many of the ices in this book are new and attractive. The new sorbets are
liked by those who are always striving for a change. Many are old and
reliable.

At large affairs, serve from the dining table.

At card parties, large and small, serve on the card tables, using a small
tea cloth on each table.

At afternoon teas, serve from the tea table in the drawing room.

At lawn parties, serve from a large table on the lawn. Small tables may be
placed here and there for the convenience of guests.

Every day afternoon tea may be served, in the summer on the porch, in the
winter, in the living room or library.

If two dishes only are served, be sure that they harmonize with each other
and with the manner of service.

Suitable and hygienic combinations are always to be considered, but the
æsthetic side seems to me of equal importance.

COFFEE FOR LARGE HOME AFFAIRS

Allow eleven ounces of finely ground coffee to each gallon of water. This
will serve twenty five persons with one coffee cup each, and forty persons
with after-dinner cups. The better way to make a large quantity of coffee
without an urn is to purchase a new wash boiler. Wash it and put in the
required quantity of water (cold). Weigh the coffee and divide it into half
pound lots. Put each lot in a small cheese cloth bag; tie the top of the
bag, allowing room for the coffee to swell. Put the bags in the water an
hour before serving time, bring slowly to a boil, and then boil rapidly for
five minutes. Remove the bags at once, pressing them well. Keep the coffee
very hot until it is all served.

Coffee is not spoiled by being kept at boiling point for some time, if the
grounds are removed.

SOUPS

BOUILLON

     2 pounds of chopped lean beef
     2 quarts of cold water
     1 small onion
    12 cloves
     2 tablespoonfuls of sugar
     2 teaspoonfuls of salt
    12 whole peppercorns
       A dash of cayenne
       Juice of half a lemon

Put the sugar in the soup kettle, add the onion, sliced, and shake until
the onion is thoroughly browned and the sugar almost burned; add the meat,
shake it for a moment, and add the water. Cover, bring to boiling point,
and put over a slow fire to simmer for two hours. Add all the seasonings
and simmer one hour longer. Strain through a colander, pressing the
meat. Beat the whites of two eggs slightly, then whisk them into the
warm bouillon, and add the juice of the lemon. Bring to boiling point,
boil rapidly five minutes, let it stand a moment, and strain through two
thicknesses of cheese cloth. This should stand until it is perfectly cold,
so that every particle of fat may be removed from the surface. Reheat to
serve.

This will serve ten persons, using ordinary bouillon cups.

CLAM BOUILLON

    50 large clams
     2 quarts of water
    12 whole peppercorns
   1/2 teaspoonful of celery seed

Wash and scrub the clams thoroughly. Put them, a few at a time, in the soup
kettle, the bottom of which has been covered with a pint of boiling water.
Boil rapidly, take the clams out with a skimmer, and put in another lot,
and so continue until all the clams have been cooked. Remove them from the
shells, saving all the liquor. Chop and return them, with the liquor and
remaining water, to the soup kettle. Simmer gently a half hour, then add
the peppercorns, crushed, and the celery seed. Cover the kettle, take it
from the fire and allow it to stand until perfectly cold. Strain through
two thicknesses of cheese cloth. Reheat to serve.

This will serve fifteen persons.

BELLEVUE BOUILLON

     1 quart of plain or chicken bouillon
     1 quart of clam bouillon
   1/2 pint of cream
       Paprika

This is one of the most elegant of all bouillons. Heat the bouillons
separately, mix them at the last minute, pour at once into heated cups, put
a tablespoonful of whipped cream on the top of each cup, garnish with a
dusting of paprika, and send to the table.

This will serve ten persons; in a pinch, twelve.

CHICKEN BOUILLON

     1 four pound fowl
     3 quarts of water
     1 onion
     2 tablespoonfuls of sugar
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 bay leaf
     1 saltspoonful of celery seed, or one half cupful of chopped celery
     1 saltspoonful of black pepper

Draw the chicken and cut it up as for a fricassee. Scald and skin the feet,
and crack them thoroughly with your cleaver knife. Put the sugar in a soup
kettle, add the onion, sliced, shake over a quick fire until brown, add the
chicken and the water, bring to boiling point, and skim. Simmer gently for
two hours. Add all the seasonings, simmer one hour longer, and strain. Add
the juice of half a lemon and the whites of two eggs, slightly beaten. Boil
rapidly five minutes, and strain through two thicknesses of cheese cloth.
Reheat to serve. This may be used in place of beef bouillon, with the clam
broth, for Bellevue bouillon.

This will serve twelve persons.

OYSTER BOUILLON

    50 fat oysters
     2 quarts of water
    12 whole peppercorns
    12 whole allspice
 1-1/2 teaspoonfuls of salt

Drain and wash the oysters. Throw them at once in a hot kettle, shake until
the gills have curled, cover the kettle, and simmer gently for fifteen
minutes. Drain again, this time saving the liquor. Return it to the kettle
with the peppercorns and allspice, crushed, and water. Chop the oysters
with a silver knife, put them back in the kettle, simmer gently a half
hour, and add the salt. Strain through two thicknesses of cheese cloth,
reheat and serve with whipped cream on top of each cup.

This serves fifteen persons.

TOMATO PUREE à la RORER

     1 quart can of tomatoes
   1/2 pint of cream
     1 quart of chicken bouillon
     2 tablespoonfuls of butter
     2 tablespoonfuls of arrowroot
     1 bay leaf
     1 blade of mace
     1 onion
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 teaspoonful of paprika

Add the onion, paprika, mace and bay leaf to the tomatoes, boil rapidly
five minutes. Moisten the arrowroot with three or four tablespoonfuls of
cold water, add it to the hot tomato, boil ten minutes, and press through
a sieve. Add the chicken bouillon, boil ten minutes, add the butter, and,
when the butter is thoroughly dissolved, turn at once into cups. Put a
tablespoonful of whipped cream on top of each, and serve.

This will serve ten persons.

GLAZE

Glaze is absolutely necessary for fine cooking, either for the browning of
sweetbreads, birds or chickens.

Cover a half box of gelatin with a half cupful of cold water to soak for an
hour. Put one quart of good bouillon, chicken or beef, over the fire, and
boil it rapidly until reduced to a pint; add the gelatin. As soon as the
gelatin is dissolved, strain the mixture. Put four tablespoonfuls of sugar
into an iron saucepan, stir until it is browned, then add to it slowly the
hot glaze, stir until it is thoroughly melted, turn it into a china or
granite receptacle, and stand away to cool. Keep this in the refrigerator,
and use it according to directions.

SWEETBREADS

SWEETBREADS à la CREME, No. 1

     2 pairs of calves' sweetbreads
     1 can of mushrooms
     1 pint of milk
     4 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     4 level tablespoonfuls of flour
     1 level teaspoonful of salt
     1 saltspoonful of white pepper

Wash the sweetbreads and trim them. Throw them in a saucepan of boiling
water and simmer gently for one hour; drain and throw them in cold water.
The water in which they were boiled may be used for stock. When they are
thoroughly cold, remove the membrane, and pick them into small pieces.
Rub the butter and flour together in a saucepan, add the milk, stir until
boiling, add the mushrooms, chopped fine, the sweetbreads, salt and pepper.
Stir until it again reaches the boiling point, cover and stand over hot
water for twenty minutes. Serve in ramekin dishes, paté shells or paper
cases. This will fill twelve cases, or fourteen paté shells.

SWEETBREADS à la CREME, No. 2

     1 pound of fresh mushrooms
     2 pairs of calves' sweetbreads
   1/2 pint of milk
     4 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     4 level tablespoonfuls of flour
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 saltspoonful of white pepper

Wash and stem the mushrooms; do not peel them. With a silver knife cut them
into slices. Put half the butter in a saucepan, add the mushrooms and half
the milk, and the salt and pepper. Cover the saucepan, and stew slowly a
half hour. Rub the remaining butter and flour together; drain the liquor
from the mushrooms, add it, with the rest of the milk, to the butter and
flour. Stir until boiling, add the mushrooms and sweetbreads that have been
boiled and picked apart. Cover the saucepan, stand it over hot water, or
use a double boiler, pushing the boiler to the back of the stove for twenty
to thirty minutes. The saucepan must be kept closely covered, or the aroma
of the mushrooms will be lost.

This will fill sixteen cases, or fourteen paté shells, or alone it will
serve twelve persons.

SWEETBREADS à la BORDELAISE

     1 pair of calves' sweetbreads
   1/2 pint of stock
     1 onion
     1 bay leaf
   1/2 teaspoonful of salt
     1 can of mushrooms
     1 teaspoonful of browning or kitchen bouquet
     1 saltspoonful of white pepper
     2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     2 level tablespoonfuls of flour

Wash the sweetbreads, put them in a saucepan, add the bay leaf, onion and
one pint of cold water; bring to boiling point, and simmer gently one hour.
Save the water in which they were boiled. Throw the sweetbreads into cold
water, remove the membrane and pick them apart. Put the butter and flour in
a saucepan; when thoroughly mixed, add a half pint of stock in which the
sweetbreads were boiled, stir until boiling, add the mushrooms, drained,
and the seasoning. Bring to boiling point, and push to the back of the fire
for ten minutes. Skim off any butter that comes to the surface, add the
sweetbreads, cook gently ten minutes longer, and serve in either paté
cases, ramekin dishes, or paper cases.

This will serve eight persons.

BAKED SWEETBREADS

     2 pairs of calves' sweetbreads
     1 can of French peas
     3 tablespoonfuls of butter
     2 tablespoonfuls of glaze
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 saltspoonful of pepper

Wash the sweetbreads and soak them in cold water; cut them apart and trim
them neatly. Sprinkle the bottom of a baking pan with a chopped onion, put
the sweetbreads on top, dust them lightly with salt and pepper, baste them
with one tablespoonful of the butter, melted, and run them in a quick oven
to bake for twenty minutes. Then brush them thoroughly with glaze and bake
them ten minutes longer. Drain, wash and heat the peas, add the remaining
butter and season them with salt and pepper. Put the peas in the bottom
of the serving dish, dish the sweetbreads in them and send at once to
the table. These may also be served in individual dishes, cutting the
sweetbreads in small pieces, so they may be eaten with a fork.

They will serve from four to six people. The throat sweetbread may be cut
into halves, but as a rule one sweetbread is served to each person.

LAMBS' SWEETBREADS IN PAPER CASES

     8 lambs' sweetbreads
   1/2 box of gelatin
     1 pint of beef stock or chicken bouillon
     1 can of peas
     1 head of celery
     2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
   1/2 pint of milk
     1 lemon
       Hearts of lettuce
       Yolks of two eggs
       Salt and pepper

Wash the sweetbreads, put them in a saucepan, cover with boiling water,
add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and a sliced onion. Cook gently for
three-quarters of an hour. Drain, put them in a baking pan, brush them with
butter, add a few tablespoonfuls of glaze or stock, put over three or four
slices of bacon, and cook in the oven a half hour, basting three or four
times. Rub the butter and flour together, add the milk, stir until boiling,
add two tablespoonfuls of the soaked gelatin, a half teaspoonful of salt
and a little white pepper. Take from the fire and add hastily the beaten
yolks of the eggs. Cover the bottom of a cold baking pan with muffin rings,
put one sweetbread into each muffin ring. When the sauce is a little cool,
cover the sweetbreads thoroughly, filling the rings quite full. Stand these
away over night in a cold place.

Dissolve the remaining gelatin in the hot bouillon, season, add the lemon
juice, and stand it aside over night. At serving time, remove the contents
from the rings and place them in paper cases of the same size. Turn the
clear aspic out on to a towel and cut it into pretty shapes. Decorate the
top of the cases with this aspic, placing a sprig of green in the centre.
Drain and press the cold peas through a sieve, and season them with salt
and pepper; put this pulp in a pastry bag with a star tube, and decorate
the top of each mold. Serve at once with mayonnaise passed in a boat.

Another way is to fill the bottom of the paper cases with finely chopped
celery, mixed with mayonnaise, and put the sweetbreads on top, omitting
the peas. If made well, these are exceedingly handsome. One "ring" will be
served to each person.

SWEETBREADS à la NEWBURG

     2 pairs of calves' sweetbreads
     1 can of mushrooms
     4 hard boiled yolks of eggs
   1/2 pint of milk
     2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     1 tablespoonful of flour
   1/2 teaspoonful of salt
     1 saltspoonful of white pepper
   1/2 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg
       A dash of cayenne

Cook the sweetbreads as directed in first recipe; when cold, pick them
apart, rejecting the membrane. Rub the butter and flour together, add the
milk, stir until boiling, and add this slowly to the mashed yolks of the
eggs. Work and stir until you have a perfectly smooth paste. Press it
through a fine sieve, add the salt, pepper, mushrooms and sweetbreads.
Stand over hot water for twenty minutes, until thoroughly hot. Add, if you
use it, four tablespoonfuls of sherry, and serve.

This will serve ten persons.

SHELL-FISH DISHES

DEVILED CRABS

    12 crabs, or one pint of crab flake
     4 hard boiled eggs
     2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     2 tablespoonfuls of soft bread crumbs
     1 tablespoonful of flour
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg
     1 teaspoonful of onion juice
   1/2 pint of milk
       A dash of cayenne

Chop the whites of the hard boiled eggs very, very fine. Put the yolks
through a sieve. Rub the butter and flour together, and add the milk; stir
until boiling, take from the fire, and add the bread crumbs and the eggs.
Add all the seasoning to the crab flake, mix the two together, and fill at
once into the shells. The shells must be quite full, so that there will be
no danger of the fat being held in the shell. Dip the shells in egg, then
cover them thickly with bread crumbs. It is well to egg and bread crumb the
upper side again; in fact both dippings may be on the upper sides, leaving
the shells red underneath. Put these in a frying basket and fry for a
minute in hot, deep fat. Serve one to each person.

This quantity should fill eight shells.

CRAB BACKS à la CARACAS

     1 dozen crabs, or six backs and a pint of crab flake
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 teaspoonful of onion juice
       A dash of cayenne

Add the seasoning to the crab flakes, and mix without breaking the flakes.
Fill the mixture into the backs, put a teaspoonful of butter on the top
of each, sprinkle lightly with crumbs, and bake in a quick oven twenty
minutes,

CRAB MEAT à la DEWEY

     1 pint of crab flake
     2 tablespoonfuls of butter
     2 tablespoonfuls of flour
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 red and one green pepper
   1/2 pint of chicken stock, or milk
     2 tablespoonfuls of sherry
       Yolks of two eggs

Drop the peppers into hot fat just a moment and rub off the skin, remove
the seeds and chop the flesh fine. Put this, with the butter, in a
saucepan, and shake over the fire until the peppers are soft. Add the
flour, mix, and add the stock or milk; stir until boiling, add the salt and
pepper and the crab flakes. Do not stir, but heat slowly over hot water.
When hot, add the yolks of the eggs, beaten with two tablespoonfuls of
cream. Heat again, just a moment, being careful not to curdle the eggs, and
serve on toast.

This dish is very nice when made in a chafing dish, and will serve six
people.

LOBSTER CUTLETS

     1 pint of lobster meat
     2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     4 level tablespoonfuls of flour
   1/2 pint of milk
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 teaspoonful of onion juice
     1 saltspoonful of white pepper
   1/2 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg
       Yolk of one egg
       A dash of cayenne

Chop the boiled lobster rather fine with a silver knife, and add to it all
the seasoning. Rub the butter and flour together in a saucepan, add the
milk, stir until you have a smooth, thick paste, add the yolk of the egg,
cook a moment longer, add the lobster, and turn out to cool. When cold,
form into cutlet shaped croquettes, dip in egg, roll in bread crumbs,
and fry in deep hot fat. Put a small claw in the end of each cutlet to
represent the bone. Serve with these either cream sauce or sauce tartar.

This quantity should make eight cutlets.

LOBSTER NEWBURG

Make this precisely the same as crabs Newburg, using one pint of boiled
lobster meat. Cut the lobster in cubes of about one inch. Purchase one
large or two small lobsters.

OYSTER CROQUETTES

    50 fat oysters
     4 level tablespoonfuls of flour
     2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 teaspoonful of onion juice
   1/2 saltspoonful of nutmeg
     1 saltspoonful of white pepper
       Yolks of two eggs

Drain and wash the oysters, throw them into a hot kettle, shake until the
gills curl and the liquid boils. Boil five minutes and drain, saving the
liquor. There should be a half cupful of liquor. Chop the oysters and add
them to the liquor. Rub the butter and flour together, add the oysters and
liquor, stir until the mixture reaches boiling point, and push to the back
of the stove where it will cook for ten minutes. Add all the seasoning and
the yolks of the eggs, cook just a minute, and turn out to cool. This must
stand either over night, or must be placed directly on the ice for at least
four hours. When cold, form into small cylinder shaped croquettes, dip in
egg and bread crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat.

This quantity will make one dozen good sized cylinders.

POULTRY AND GAME DISHES

CHICKEN CROQUETTES

     1 four pound chicken
   1/2 pint of milk
     2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     4 level tablespoonfuls of flour
     2 teaspoonfuls of salt
     2 teaspoonfuls of onion juice
     2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley
     1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg
     1 saltspoonful of white pepper
       A dash of cayenne

Draw, truss the chicken, put it into boiling water, boil it rapidly for
ten minutes, and let it simmer until tender. When cold, remove the meat,
rejecting the bones and skin. Chop the meat with a chopping knife; do not
put it through the meat grinder. When fine, add all the seasoning and mix
thoroughly. Put the milk in a saucepan over the fire, and add the butter
and flour, rubbed together. Stir and cook until you have a smooth paste,
add the chicken, mix thoroughly, and turn out to cool. When cold, form into
croquettes, dip in an egg, beaten with a tablespoonful of water, roll in
dry bread crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat. Serve plain, or with French
peas.

This will make thirteen large croquettes.

One pair of thoroughly cooked sweetbreads may be chopped with the chicken,
or you may add a pair of parboiled calf's brains; this increases quantity,
and makes the croquettes more creamy.

This should make sixteen large cylinders or pyramids, serving sixteen
persons.

The meat from the chicken after it is chopped should measure one quart.
Any other meat may be substituted for chicken, but could not be used, of
course, for an elegant affair.

CHICKEN à la CREME

       The white meat of one cooked chicken
     1 pair of calves' sweetbreads
     1 can of mushrooms
     4 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     4 level tablespoonfuls of flour
     1 pint of milk
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 saltspoonful of white pepper
    10 drops of onion juice
       Yolks of two eggs

Cut the chicken into cubes of a half inch. Boil the sweetbreads and pick
them apart, rejecting the membrane. Drain and wash the mushrooms, cut them
into halves and mix them with the sweetbread and chicken. Rub the butter
and flour together, and add the milk; when boiling, add salt, pepper, onion
juice and meat. Stand this over hot water in a covered saucepan for twenty
minutes, add the yolks of the eggs, slightly beaten, and bring just to
boiling point.

Served in ramekins or paper cases this is sufficient for fifteen persons.
Served as a supper or luncheon dish alone, twelve persons.

CHICKEN à la KING

       The white meat of one chicken
   1/2 can of mushrooms
     1 green pepper
   1/3 pint of milk
   1/2 teaspoonful of salt
     2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
     1 saltspoonful of white pepper
     2 tablespoonfuls of sherry

Drop the pepper into hot fat for a moment to remove the skin, then chop it
very fine. Put the butter in a saucepan or chafing dish, add the pepper,
stir until the pepper is soft, add the flour, mix and add the milk, stir
until boiling, and add the salt. Cut the meat into pieces an inch square,
add them to the hot sauce, add the mushrooms, sliced, and, when hot, add
the wine and serve.

This will serve four or five persons.

BOUDINS à la REINE

     1 pint of chopped cooked chicken
   1/2 can of mushrooms
     1 can of peas
     2 eggs
   1/2 cupful of bread crumbs
   1/2 cupful of chicken stock
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 saltspoonful of pepper

Brush ordinary timbale cups lightly with butter, put a mushroom in the
centre of the bottom, and around the edge a ring of peas. Put the stock and
bread over the fire, and, when boiling, add the chicken and seasonings,
stir until it reaches the boiling point, take from the fire, and add the
eggs, well beaten. Put this carefully in the cups, cover the top with oiled
paper, stand the cups in a shallow pan partly filled with hot water, and
cook in the oven about twenty minutes, until the contents are "set" in the
centre. Heat the remaining quantity of peas, and season them with salt and
pepper. Turn the boudins on a platter, surround them with the hot peas, and
send them at once to the table.

This will serve eight persons.

These may also be served with plain sauce, or with Sauce Bechamel.

SAUCE BECHAMEL

     2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
   1/2 cupful of chicken stock
   1/2 cupful of milk
   1/2 teaspoonful of salt
     1 saltspoonful of pepper
       Yolk of one egg

Rub the butter and flour together, add the liquids, stir until boiling,
add the salt and pepper, stir, add the yolk of an egg, well beaten, pass
through a fine sieve, and use at once.

CHICKEN TIMBALE

       The white meat of one chicken
   1/2 pint of soft white bread crumbs
   1/2 cupful of milk
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 saltspoonful of white pepper
       The whites of five eggs

Put the raw meat of the chicken twice through the meat chopper, then put
it in a mortar and pound it to a paste, or work it in a bowl with a wooden
spoon. Boil the bread and milk, stirring constantly; when this is cold, add
the salt, pepper and four tablespoonfuls of cream; work it gradually into
the chicken meat. This must be a perfectly smooth paste. Add the unbeaten
whites of two eggs; when they are thoroughly incorporated, fold in the well
beaten whites of the three eggs. Put at once into an oiled Charlotte mold
or into small timbale molds.

The molds may be garnished with mushrooms, or chopped truffles, or peas.
Stand them in a pan of hot water, cover with oiled paper and cook in the
oven, small molds twenty-five minutes, a large mold thirty-five. Serve hot,
with cream mushroom sauce.

This quantity in small molds should serve twelve people; in a large mold,
ten.

CREAM MUSHROOM SAUCE

     1 can of mushrooms
     2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
   1/2 pint of milk
     2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
   1/2 teaspoonful of salt
     1 saltspoonful of pepper

Rub the butter and flour together, and add the milk, stir until boiling,
add the seasoning, and the mushrooms, cut into halves. When hot it is ready
to use.

COLD DISHES

POULET EN BELLEVUE

   1/2 box of gelatin
     1 pint of chicken stock
     1 bay leaf
     1 onion
       The white meat of two chickens
       Salt and pepper

Remove the white meat carefully from two boiled chickens; split the breasts
into halves, long ways. Cover the gelatin with a half cupful of cold water
to soak for a half hour. Add the seasonings to the stock or bouillon, bring
to a boil, add the gelatin, and if not clear, clarify with the white of an
egg. Add the juice of a lemon and strain. Take small oblong china or tin
molds, garnish the bottoms with fancy bits of good red pepper and chopped
truffles, baste over a little of the hot aspic, and let them stand until
very cold. Cool the remaining aspic, but do not allow it to become solid.
Put on top of each mold a half breast of chicken, dust with salt and
pepper, pour over the cold aspic and stand them aside over night. At
serving time dip the molds quickly into hot water, turn out the cutlets,
dish them on luncheon plates, and garnish with hearts of lettuce. Pass
mayonnaise dressing.

This will make eight molds and serve eight persons. Use the dark meat for
fricassee or stew of chicken.

TOMATOES à l'ALGERIENNE

       The white meat of one chicken
    24 perfect tomatoes
   1/4 box of gelatin
   1/2 pint of chicken stock
   1/2 pint of cream
     1 teaspoonful of anchovy paste
     3 heads of fine lettuce
   1/2 pint of mayonnaise

Peel the tomatoes, cut off the stem end and scoop out the hard portion and
the seeds; put the tomatoes on the ice. Put the meat of the chicken through
the meat grinder, season it with the anchovy paste, if you have it, and
salt and pepper. Soak the gelatin in a half cupful of cold water, add the
chicken stock, bring to a boil, add a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of
pepper, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix a part of this with the chicken.
Whip the cream, stir it into the chicken mixture, and fill it into the
tomatoes, making them smooth on top. When the tomatoes are very cold and
the aspic is cool, but not thick, baste just a little over the top, dust
thickly with chopped parsley and finely chopped almonds, and stand them in
a cold place for several hours. Arrange each tomato in a little nest of
lettuce leaves, and pass with them mayonnaise dressing. If these are made
well, they are the most sightly of the small cold dishes, and cost almost
nothing.

This, of course, will be served to twenty-four persons.

Tongue, sardines, lobster, crab meat or cold left-over meat may be
substituted for chicken.

GALANTINE OF CHICKEN

     2 chickens
   1/2 pound of boiled ham
   1/4 pound of larding pork
     1 can of mushrooms
     2 teaspoonfuls of salt
     1 egg
     1 pound of lean veal
     2 truffles
       Salt and pepper

Singe the chickens, and remove the head and feet; place the chicken on the
table with the breast down. Take a small, sharp-pointed sabatier knife and
cut the skin from neck to rump right down the back bone. Carefully and
slowly run the knife between the bones and the flesh, keeping it always
close to the bone. Take out first the wings, then loosen the carcass, and
then take out the legs. Unjoint and separate each bone, and take it out as
you come to it. Do not take the small bones from the wings; they may be
cut off. When you have removed all the flesh from the bones, keeping it
perfectly whole, and without breaking the skin, wipe the skin and put it on
the table; draw the legs and the wings inside. Take all the raw meat from
the other chicken, rejecting the skin and bones, but you do not have to
bone this one carefully. Put it in the meat grinder, with half the ham, all
the veal and half the bacon. When chopped, season it with two teaspoonfuls
of salt, and two saltspoonfuls of white pepper; add the egg and mix
thoroughly. Put a thin layer of this into the boned chicken, put in here
and there long pieces of the remaining ham and bacon, a layer of mushrooms,
blocks of truffles, then another layer of the forcemeat, and so continue
until you have used all the ingredients. Pull up the skin and sew it down
the back, making a perfect roll. Tie the neck and rump. Roll this in cheese
cloth, fasten it securely, and sew the cheese cloth so that the roll will
be perfect when done.

Put all the bones in the soup kettle, add a sliced onion, a bay leaf,
and sufficient cold water to come just to the top of the bones. Bring to
boiling point, and put in the "galantine," as the chicken roll is called.
Cover the kettle, and boil continuously for four hours. When done, slightly
cool, remove the cloth, and stand it away until perfectly cold. Strain the
water, which should measure two quarts; add to it a box of gelatin that has
been soaked in a cupful of water for an hour. Bring this to boiling point,
season it with salt and pepper, add the juice of a lemon and the whites
of two eggs, slightly beaten. Boil five minutes, and strain through two
thicknesses of cheese cloth. Select a long round pudding mold, or a regular
boned chicken mold, something like a large melon mold; baste the mold
inside with this liquid jelly, decorate it in patterns or unconventional
designs, using green and red pepper, the hard boiled white of egg and peas.
Allow the remaining jelly to cool, but not stiffen. After you finish the
decorations, baste them carefully with, cold gelatin and stand the mold on
ice. Then put in a little more cold jelly, until you have a good base upon
which to rest the "galantine." Put it in, breast side down, and pour over
the remaining gelatin. Stand in a cold place for twenty-four hours. When
ready to serve, wipe the mold with a warm cloth, and turn the "galantine"
on to a long platter. Garnish the platter with hearts of lettuce. To serve,
cut the "galantine" in the thinnest possible slices, and serve it with a
salad, either celery, or mixed vegetables, or plain lettuce; or it may be
served with a sauce tartar or plain mayonnaise dressing. This is one of the
most elegant of cold dishes, and will serve twenty-five persons.

CHICKEN MOUSSE

     1 pint of cooked chopped chicken
   1/2 pint of milk
     2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 level tablespoonful of flour
     1 tablespoonful of granulated gelatin
     1 saltspoonful of white pepper
   1/2 pint of cream

Rub the butter and the flour together over the fire, add the milk, stir
until boiling, and add the gelatin that has been soaked in a couple of
tablespoonfuls of cold water for fifteen minutes. Add the salt, pepper and
chicken, mix thoroughly and stand it aside to cool. Beat the cream to a
stiff froth. Make a half cupful of mayonnaise from the yolk of one egg
and eight tablespoonfuls of olive oil; stir the cream gradually into the
mayonnaise and then add it carefully to the cold chicken mixture. Turn it
into an ordinary melon pudding mold, cover closely and stand it in a bucket
of cracked ice and salt. It is wise to bind the cover seam to keep out the
salt water. When slightly frozen, which will take about two hours, remove
the lid, turn out the mousse, cover the top with first a ring of hard
boiled whites, chopped fine, then a ring of finely chopped parsley, inside
this a ring of the yolks of the eggs pressed through a sieve, and right in
the centre a sprig of curly parsley. Send at once to the table. Lobster,
crab flakes and cold roasted game may be used according to this recipe.

This will serve eight persons at a reception. At a luncheon only six
persons.

PATE-DE-FOIE-GRAS IN ASPIC

     1 box of granulated gelatin
     1 teaspoonful of beef extract
     1 small onion
     1 bay leaf
     1 blade of mace
     1 truffle
     1 carrot
     1 green pepper
     1 red pepper
     1 lemon
     1 tureen of foie-gras

Cover the gelatin with a half cupful of cold water to soak for a half hour.
Put all the vegetables and seasoning in one quart of cold water, bring to
boiling point, simmer gently twenty minutes, add the beef extract, one
teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of black pepper. Add the gelatin,
stir until the gelatin is dissolved, and strain. Add the juice of the lemon
and the whites of two eggs, slightly beaten. Bring to boiling point, boil
rapidly for five minutes, and strain through two thicknesses of cheese
cloth. Cut the peppers into fancy shapes. Chop the truffle fine. Select a
dozen dariole molds, moisten them in cold water, baste them with the aspic,
and, when cold, garnish the bottoms handsomely with a pepper and truffle.
Put in another layer of aspic, which must be cold, but not thick; on top
of this place a slice of pate-de-foie-gras, cover them carefully with the
aspic, filling the mold to the top. Stand these away over night. Serve
on crisp lettuce leaves, and pass with them a mayonnaise. These are the
handsomest of all the cold aspic dishes.

A single large mold may be used for ball suppers or large receptions. To
serve, cut it into slices, and pass mayonnaise of celery.

This will serve twelve persons.

BONED TURKEY

Turkey is boned precisely the same as you bone a "galantine" of chicken.
Use for the stuffing:

     2 chickens
     1 pound of sausage meat
     1 pound of veal
     3 truffles
     1 can of mushrooms
     1 pound of ham

Take six hours to cook the turkey. When cold put it in a boned turkey mold
that has been garnished, and fill with aspic.

Cut in very thin slices to serve thirty persons.

BONED QUAIL

Purchase twenty-four quails. Split them down the back and remove the bones,
keeping your knife close to the bone. Do not break the skin nor tear the
flesh. Spread them out, skin side down, on a board and stuff them with the
seasoned sausage meat. Put them into shape, sew them down the back, cover
the breast of each with a slice of bacon, put them in a baking pan, add a
half pint of hot stock, and bake in a quick oven forty minutes, dusting
with pepper and basting frequently. When cold, remove the string from the
back.

For a dozen quails use:

     1 box of gelatin
     1 quart of milk
     1 tablespoonful of grated onion
     2 truffles
     4 level tablespoonfuls of butter
     4 level tablespoonfuls of flour
     2 teaspoonfuls of salt
     1 saltspoonful of white pepper

Soak the gelatin in the milk a half hour. Rub the butter and flour
together, then add the milk and gelatin, stir until boiling, and add all
the seasoning and strain. Stand aside until cool, but not thick. Place the
birds on a tin sheet or a large platter, and baste them with this cold
white sauce. As soon as the first basting has hardened, baste them again.
This time decorate the breasts with the truffles cut into fancy shapes.
To serve, arrange them around a large mound of mayonnaise of celery. Use
either a meat platter, or two round chop dishes. Have the breasts of the
birds down, and the back slightly pressed into the salad. In between each
bird put a pretty bunch of curly parsley, and garnish the top of the mound
with Spanish peppers cut into strips. Serve one to each person.

SALADS

Salads play a most important part in all conventional suppers. Chicken,
lobster, crab, duck, tongue, and lamb salad take the place of other meats,
although for a large supper there is no objection to serving a meat salad
following a hot course. If one can make a good mayonnaise dressing, salads
are the easiest of all refreshments, and are most acceptable to the guests.

MAYONNAISE

Put the yolks of three eggs in a clean cold dish, beat slightly and add
slowly, almost drop by drop, a half pint or more of salad oil. After adding
the first half pint, add a half teaspoonful of vinegar now and then to
prevent breaking. You may add a quart of oil, if you like; you may serve it
plain, or stir in at the last moment stiffly whipped cream. One quart of
mayonnaise will hold one quart of whipped cream. For light colored salads,
as sweetbread and Waldorf, it is well to use the whipped cream slightly
colored with a drop of vegetable green.

SAUCE TARTAR

Add to a half pint of mayonnaise dressing a tablespoonful of chopped
gherkin, the same of chopped parsley, four chopped olives and a
tablespoonful of capers.

SAUCE SUEDOISE

   1/2 pint of mayonnaise
   1/2 pint of cream
     2 tablespoonfuls of finely grated horseradish

Whip the cream and drain it, then stir it carefully into the mayonnaise,
and at last add the horseradish. This sauce is appropriate to serve with
boned partridges or quail, and is also nice to serve with mixed cold meats.

FRENCH DRESSING

Put eight tablespoonfuls of oil in a bowl, add a half teaspoonful of salt,
and a piece of ice the size of an egg. Work the ice with the oil until the
salt is thoroughly dissolved, then add a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar
and a drop of Tabasco sauce. Remove the ice, beat rapidly until you have
a creamy dressing, and use at once. French dressing should be used over
cucumber or tomato molds, and is nice with fish or chicken mousse and East
Indian Salad.

CUCUMBER MOLDS

     2 good sized cucumbers
   1/2 box of gelatin
     1 pint of chicken stock
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 tablespoonful of onion juice
     1 saltspoonful of pepper
       The juice of one lemon

Peel and grate the cucumbers. Add the gelatin to the stock, soak for twenty
minutes, bring to a boil and add the seasoning; then stir in the drained
cucumber. Turn into small round timbale cups and stand aside to harden.
Serve with any cold fish dish, as cold boiled slice of halibut, or fish in
aspic. These are nice for Sunday night supper with broiled sardines.

TOMATO MOLDS

     1 can of tomatoes
     1 box of gelatin
     1 onion
     1 saltspoonful of celery seed
     1 bay leaf
     1 blade of mace
     2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar
     1 teaspoonful of paprika
     2 teaspoonfuls of salt

Cover the gelatin with a cupful of cold water to soak for fifteen minutes.
Add all the seasoning to the tomatoes, bring to boiling point, add the
gelatin, and strain. Turn into twelve small tomato molds and stand aside to
harden. Serve with mayonnaise dressing as an accompaniment to boned chicken
or turkey, or chicken paté, or alone, with mayonnaise, as a complete salad.
Chopped celery, a little cold cooked meat or nuts may be added, when the
molds are to be served as a salad. With this addition, one half the recipe
will serve twelve persons.

CRABS RAVIGOT

Purchase as many crab shells as you have people to serve. To each six allow
a pint of crab flakes. If you buy the crabs fresh, twelve crabs will serve
six people. Squeeze over the flakes the juice of one lemon, add a half
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of Tabasco. Fill the meat loosely into the
shells, place each shell on a pretty paper doily on a plate, and spread
over a thick layer of mayonnaise dressing, with which you have mixed a
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of tarragon leaves, a
tablespoonful of chopped onion or shallot, and a tablespoonful of green
chives.

CHICKEN SALAD

Cut cold boiled chicken into dice, add an equal quantity of tender celery,
season with salt, pepper and lemon juice, mix with mayonnaise dressing, and
serve on lettuce leaves.

A four pound chicken, and six heads of tender celery, three heads of
lettuce, a half pint of whipped cream, and one pint of mayonnaise, will
serve fifteen persons.

LOBSTER SALAD

Cut cold boiled lobster into cubes of an inch, mix with mayonnaise dressing
and serve on lettuce leaves.

One three-pound lobster will serve six persons.

CRAB SALAD

Season crab flakes with salt, pepper and lemon juice, mix them with
mayonnaise dressing, and serve on lettuce leaves, garnished with cress.

One pint of flakes will serve six persons.

TONGUE SALAD

Cut fresh-cooked beef's tongue or calf's tongue into dice. Have ready
peeled perfectly round smooth tomatoes, take out the core and scoop out
the seeds. Fill each tomato with the cubes of tongue, sprinkle over a
teaspoonful of lemon juice and a little salt and pepper. Stand these on
nests of lettuce leaves, put on top of each a large tablespoonful of
mayonnaise. Dust thickly with paprika and serve one to each person.

LAMB SALAD

Cut cold boiled lamb into dice, mix with it half the quantity of freshly
cooked green peas or canned peas. Add a half can of mushrooms, chopped
fine, salt, pepper and lemon juice. Mix with mayonnaise dressing and serve
on lettuce leaves, garnished with large sprigs of mint. Cap the top of the
dish with a good sized sprig of fresh mint, and sprinkle capers all over
the salad.

A nice plain lamb salad is made by mixing left-over cold lamb with
mayonnaise; serve on lettuce leaves and garnish with chopped mint.

A quart will serve ten persons.

TOMATOES EN SURPRISE

This is one of the nicest of the salads for a simple card party. It takes
the place of both vegetables and meat, and with brown bread and nut
sandwiches as an accompaniment, is very attractive. Peel the tomatoes, cut
off the stem end and scoop out the core and seeds. Fill the tomatoes with
either crab flakes, chopped lobster, canned salmon, or sardines. Squeeze
over a little lemon juice, and dust with salt and pepper. Turn them
upside down on a nest of lettuce leaves, and cover the tomato with creamy
mayonnaise.

SWEETBREAD SALAD

     2 pairs of sweetbreads
     4 ounces of almonds
     4 ounces of pecan meats
     2 ounces of shelled Brazilian nuts
     2 Spanish peppers
   1/2 can of mushrooms
     2 heads of celery
     2 heads of lettuce
     1 pint of mayonnaise
     1 pint of cream
     1 can of French peas

This is the most elaborate of all salads, is palatable and comparatively
wholesome. Put the sweetbreads into boiling water, add a tablespoonful of
vinegar, and simmer gently for one hour. When cold, remove the membrane and
pick the sweetbreads apart. Put them in a bowl, cover them with an onion,
sliced, and squeeze over the juice of a lemon; cover the bowl and stand it
aside over night. Blanch and chop the almonds, and chop the pecans. Remove
the onion from the sweetbreads, mix in the nuts, add the white portions of
the celery, cut the size of the sweetbreads. Add the mushrooms, sliced, two
teaspoonfuls of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper and a saltspoonful
of paprika. Add the cream, whipped, to the mayonnaise, and mix a portion
of it with the sweetbreads and celery. Have a round shallow salad bowl
lined with the lettuce leaves, turn in the centre the sweetbread salad and
cover it over with the remaining quantity of mayonnaise. Put the peas in
a ring around the base of the salad, and cap the top with the yolk of a
hard-boiled egg. Cut the white of the egg into eighths and press them
upside down around the yolk, forming a sort of a daisy. Cut the Spanish
peppers into rings and arrange them just above the peas. Put here and there
around the base, above the peas, ripe or green olives, and send to the
table.

This will serve at supper or luncheon ten persons.

ROAST BEEF SALAD

For impromptu evening affairs any cold left-over meat may be utilized in
a salad. Beef, mutton and tongue are usually served with French dressing,
seasoned with tomato catsup. Cut the meat into dice, season with salt and
pepper, dish them on lettuce, or they may be mixed in the winter with
chopped celery or chopped crisp cabbage, and basted with French dressing,
seasoned with two or three tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup for beef, mint
sauce, or a drop of Tabasco Sauce for mutton, a little Worcestershire Sauce
for tongue.

A quart will serve ten persons.

EAST INDIAN SALAD

This is purely a vegetable salad; it is exceedingly nice for a simple
evening affair. Shave sufficient cabbage to make a pint, soak it in cold
water for one hour, changing the water once or twice. Cover a half box of
gelatin with a half cupful of cold water to soak for a half hour. Put a
half can of tomatoes in a saucepan, add one onion, chopped, a teaspoonful
of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper and the juice of a lemon, or two
tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Bring to boiling point, and add the gelatin.
Cover the bottom of a large melon mold with finely chopped celery or cooked
carrots, put on top of this a few drops of onion juice, then a thin layer
of cabbage, a dusting of salt and pepper, then a goodly quantity of India
relish; cover this over with chopped nuts, pecans, hickory or peanuts, then
another layer of celery, and so continue until the mold is full, seasoning
the layers with salt and pepper. Have the last layer chopped celery. Strain
over this the tomato aspic, which should be cold, but not thick, and stand
aside for four or five hours. Serve plain, or garnished with lettuce leaves
or cress.

This will serve twelve persons.

POTATO SALAD

Fancy potato salad may be served for an evening affair with an
accompaniment of cold tongue, or it may be garnished with hard-boiled
eggs and form the entire course. Serve with it brown bread and butter and
coffee.

     4 potatoes
     8 tablespoonfuls of olive oil
     2 tablespoonfuls of cream
     2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar
     1 level teaspoonful of salt
     1 saltspoonful of pepper

Wash the potatoes and boil them with skins on. The moment they are done,
drain the water, dry and peel. Put the oil, salt, pepper and vinegar in
a bowl, beat rapidly until thoroughly mixed, and then add one good sized
onion, sliced very thin, or use two tablespoonfuls of grated onion. Put in
the hot potatoes, sliced, toss them a moment, and if you have it, sprinkle
over two tablespoonfuls of vinegar from pickled walnuts, or a tablespoonful
of mushroom catsup. Stand aside to cool. When ready to serve, turn on to a
cold platter, garnish with chopped parsley, and, if you have them, chopped
pickled beets.

This is sufficient for six persons.

FRENCH POTATO SALAD

Moisten a teaspoonful of cornstarch in four tablespoonfuls of milk, add
two tablespoonfuls of cream and stir over hot water until thick; then add
gradually six tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a teaspoonful of French made
mustard, a level teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Boil
four potatoes, cut them into blocks, and, when nearly cold, mix them with
this dressing, and stand aside until very cold. Serve with a garnish of
chopped celery or lettuce leaves.

This will serve six persons.

MACEDOINE SALAD

A mixture of vegetables, peas, beans, carrots, turnips, can be purchased,
canned, at any grocery store. Drain, wash them in cold water, dish them
on a bed of shaved cabbage or lettuce leaves, and cover them with French
dressing. All these vegetables may be cooked at home and used cold. String
beans garnished with carrots make an excellent salad.

BANANA SALAD

For this use the red bananas. Roll them out of the skin rather than strip
the skin from them, and cut them into slices a half inch thick. Cover the
bottom of your salad bowl with crisp lettuce leaves, then put over the
bananas, allowing one banana to each two persons. Squeeze over the juice of
a lemon, and, when ready to serve, baste with French dressing.

APPLE AND NUT SALAD

     4 tart apples
     1 cupful of pecan meats
    24 blanched almonds
     2 sweet Spanish peppers
       The rule for French dressing

Peel the apples, cut them into dice, squeeze over the juice of one or two
lemons, and stand them aside until wanted. The lemon juice will prevent
discoloration. Chop the nuts. At serving time line the salad bowl with
a layer of chopped celery or cabbage or lettuce leaves, then a layer of
apples, nuts, celery, apples and nuts. Baste with the French dressing, and,
if you have them, garnish with the sweet peppers cut into strips, and use
at once.

This, using a pint of chopped cabbage or celery, will serve six persons.

CANTALOUPE SALAD

This is the newest and most sightly of salads. Arrange crisp lettuce or
Romaine leaves on individual plates. Cut a cold ripe cantaloupe into
halves, take out the seeds, and with a large vegetable scoop or teaspoon
scoop out balls or egg-shaped pieces. Heap a half dozen of these on the
lettuce leaves, and, at serving time, baste them well with French dressing,
and serve. Watermelon may be substituted for cantaloupe.

SANDWICHES

Sandwiches may be made from thin white bread, or whole wheat bread, or
Boston brown bread, or nut bread. A nut loaf is easily made at short
notice, and needs only butter to make an excellent sandwich. An endless
variety of sandwiches may be made from materials always at hand.

For CHEESE SANDWICHES: Grind or mash common American cheese, add a
palatable seasoning of tomato catsup, Worcestershire sauce, and a little
melted butter. A teaspoonful of these will be sufficient for a quarter of
a pound of cheese. Put this between thin slices of unbuttered bread. If
a large quantity of sandwiches is to be made, beat the butter to a cream
before using it.

MEATS: All sorts of meats, just a little left over, may be chopped,
seasoned and utilized for sandwiches. If the meat is slightly moistened
with a little olive oil, cream or melted butter, and the sandwiches are
wrapped in a damp cloth, as soon as made, and closed in a tin bread box,
they will keep nicely for several hours.

On a warm day put a few moist lettuce leaves on top of the sandwiches,
under the cloth, and put the box in a cold place.

CANNED SALMON, SARDINES, or BOILED SALT COD, pounded and nicely seasoned
with oil and lemon juice, or mayonnaise, make nice sandwiches to serve with
molded tomato jelly, and coffee, for a "winter evening." They are quite
enough with coffee alone in an emergency.

NUT SANDWICHES are made by putting chopped nuts or nut butter between thin
slices of buttered bread, or crackers.

SWEET SANDWICHES are made by putting a mixture of chopped fruits between
thin slices of buttered bread. The fruits best suited for sandwiches are
dates, raisins, candied ginger and cherries, and washed figs. These may be
used separately or blended, using less ginger than other fruits. A nice
filling may be made from a half pound of dates, an ounce of ginger, and ten
cents' worth of roasted peanuts, or a quarter of a pound of pecans. Put
these through a meat chopper, add the juice of an orange, and pack the
mixture in jelly tumblers. Keep in a cold place. This will keep a month in
winter, and equally long in a refrigerator in summer.

Sweet sandwiches are usually cut into "fingers," or into rounds with an
ordinary biscuit cutter.

HONOLULU SANDWICHES are made by rubbing one roll of Neufchatel cheese with
a half cupful of grated apple, two sweet Spanish peppers, and twenty-four
blanched and chopped almonds. Add salt and a drop of Tabasco sauce. Spread
between thin slices of unbuttered bread.

JELLY OR CANNED FRUIT SANDWICHES are made by spreading jelly or mashed
fruit, drained, on a very thin slice of buttered bread. Trim off the crusts
and roll quickly. Tie with baby ribbon, or press it firmly together. These
are usually served with chocolate or tea.

CHICKEN SALAD OR CELERY MAYONNAISE SANDWICHES are usually served with
coffee, and can be made quickly by mixing any left-over chicken, or tender
white celery, with mayonnaise, and putting the mixture between thin slices
of buttered bread. A lettuce leaf on the bread first holds the salad
nicely. One may use two lettuce leaves if necessary.

NUT BREAD

     2 cupfuls of flour
   1/2 cupful of chopped nuts
     2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder
     1 cupful of milk
     1 egg
     2 tablespoonfuls of sugar
   1/2 teaspoonful of salt

Sift the salt, baking powder and flour together, add and mix in the nuts
and sugar. Beat the egg, add the milk, and stir these in the flour. Mix
well, and turn it in a greased bread pan. Cover, and allow it to stand
fifteen minutes. Bake in a moderately quick oven a half hour. Pecans,
hickory nuts, peanuts, or English walnuts may be used.

Use the next day after it is baked. Cut thin, butter lightly, and press two
slices together. Serve whole, or cut into halves. Do not remove the crusts.

SUGGESTIONS FOR CHURCH SUPPERS

NUT MEAT ROLL

     1 pound of chopped beef
     1 quart of roasted peanuts in shells
     1 teaspoonful of salt
     1 saltspoonful of pepper
     3 shredded wheat biscuits
     2 eggs
     1 tablespoonful onion juice
     1 tablespoonful of parsley

Shell and chop the peanuts, mix them with the meat, and add the shredded
wheat rubbed fine; salt, pepper, parsley, chopped, and onion juice. Mix
well. Beat the egg slightly, add three tablespoonfuls of water, and mix
this into the meat. Form in a roll about eight inches long, roll in oiled
paper, place it in a baking pan, add a half cupful of water to the pan and
bake in a moderate oven three-quarters of an hour. Remove the paper and
stand aside to cool. Serve in thin slices with either tomato or potato
salad.

This will serve eight persons at a cost of about four cents each.

JELLIED VEAL

     3 knuckles of veal
     4 onions
     1 carrot
     3 teaspoonfuls of salt
     8 tablespoonfuls of vinegar
     6 gherkins
     1 teaspoonful of black pepper

Wash the knuckles, remove the meat and cut it in pieces. Put the bones in a
kettle, the meat on top, and pour over six quarts of cold water. Bring to a
boil, skim, and simmer gently two hours. Add the onion sliced, the carrot
chopped, salt and pepper, and simmer one hour longer. Drain in a colander.
Dip long molds, or ordinary bread pans, in cold water, cover the bottom
with slices of hard boiled eggs, put the meat in bits on top of this,
seasoning it with a little salt. Slice the gherkins and put them in layers
between the meat. Strain the liquid, add the vinegar, and pour it over the
meat. There should be just enough to cover it nicely. If there is more
than this, boil it down before adding vinegar. Stand aside over night.
When cold, dip the mold a second in boiling water, and turn the jelly in a
platter. Serve cut in slices, with either a nice cold slaw, or cabbage and
celery salad. Jellied beef is made the same, substituting a leg or shin of
beef.

This will cost about seventy five cents, and will make twenty-five to
thirty slices.

BAGGED VEAL

     2 pounds of lean ham
     4 pounds of veal cutlet
     3 shredded wheat biscuits
     2 eggs
     2 onions
     1 teaspoonful of powdered sage
   1/2 teaspoonful of allspice
     1 teaspoonful of salt
   1/2 teaspoonful of black pepper

Put the meat, raw, through a meat chopper, add the biscuits crumbed, the
onions grated, and all the seasonings. Work it well with the hands, and mix
in the eggs, slightly beaten. Pack the mixture in clean salt bags or bags
about that size, plunge them in a kettle of boiling water, boil rapidly ten
minutes, and simmer three hours. When cool, turn the bags wrong side out
off the meat. Serve sliced like summer sausage.

This will cost one and a half dollars, and will serve twenty five persons.

A SPANISH STEW FOR ONE HUNDRED PERSONS

    25 pounds of round of beef
     6 sweet peppers, or
     1 can of Spanish pimentos
    12 sweet turnips
   1/2 bottle of Worcestershire sauce
     1 cupful of flour
     1 pound of suet
    10 large onions
     3 gallon cans of peas
    12 carrots
     1 jar of beef extract
     4 tablespoonfuls of salt
     4 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch
   1/4 pound of butter

Put the suet into a large kettle or in two smaller ones; try it out and
remove the crackling. Add to the hot fat the onions and peppers chopped
fine. Shake until they are well cooked and slightly browned. Add the
meat cut into cubes of one inch, cover the kettles and cook a half hour,
stirring now and then. Dissolve the beef extract in three gallons of hot
water, pour it over the meat, and simmer for two hours. Add the carrots
and turnips cut into dice, and more water if necessary, and cook one hour
longer. Add the flour and cornstarch moistened in cold water, and all the
seasonings. Stir and boil ten minutes, add the peas, drained, and serve.
This is nice garnished with small hot milk biscuits. Taste before serving
it, to see if you have added sufficient salt.

VEAL ROLL

     4 pounds of lean veal
     3 shredded wheat biscuits
     1 teaspoonful of salt
   1/2 teaspoonful of sage
   1/2 pound of lean ham
     2 eggs
     1 tablespoonful of parsley
     1 saltspoonful of pepper

Put the veal and ham through a meat chopper, add all the seasonings, and
the biscuits rubbed fine. Mix thoroughly, add the egg slightly beaten, mix
again, and form into a roll three inches in diameter. Roll in oiled paper,
place in a baking pan, cover the bottom of the pan with hot water, add a
slice of onion, and, if you have it, a little chopped celery tops. Bake
slowly one and a half hours, basting over the paper every fifteen minutes.
When done, remove the paper, and put in a cold place. Serve in thin slices
with tomato jelly salad.

This will cost about one dollar and will serve eighteen persons.

MAN-OF-WAR SALAD

For twenty-five persons, chop sufficient hard white cabbage to make two
quarts. Cover it with cold water, let it soak for an hour, and then wash
it through several cold waters, and dry it in a towel. Cover three boxes
of gelatin with a pint of cold water to soak a half hour. Open three cans
of tomatoes, put them in a saucepan with four chopped onions, a cupful of
chopped celery tops, if you have them, bring to a boil, add the juice of
a lemon, a level tablespoonful of salt, ten drops of Tabasco sauce, the
juice of a lemon, or two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and the gelatin. Stir
a moment, and press through a sieve. Dip bread pans or melon molds in cold
water, put in a layer of cabbage, then a very thin layer of Indian relish,
then cabbage, and so continue until the molds are filled. Pour over the
tomato jelly, cold, and stand aside over night. Serve in slices with cooked
or French dressing.

COOKED DRESSING

Put a pint of milk over the fire in a double boiler, add three level
tablespoonfuls of cornstarch moistened in a little cold milk. Cook until
thick and smooth. Take from the fire, add the beaten yolks of four eggs,
and work in slowly two tablespoonfuls of butter. Add a teaspoonful of salt
and a saltspoonful of pepper. When cool add the juice of a lemon or four
tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Fold in carefully the well-beaten whites of the
eggs, and stand aside until very cold.

GRANDMOTHER'S POTATO SALAD

Boil ten large potatoes in their jackets. Peel them and, when cool, cut
eight into dice. Peel and mash the remaining two while hot; add to them a
quarter pound of sweet butter, four tablespoonfuls of grated onion, two
teaspoonfuls of salt, a dash of cayenne, two drops of Tabasco sauce, and
press through a fine sieve. Hard boil two eggs; rub the yolks to a paste,
and add two raw yolks. When smooth, add to these gradually the potato
mixture. Thin to the consistency of good mayonnaise, with vinegar. At
serving time mix the potato blocks and one can of drained peas with the
dressing, being very careful not to break them. Dish on lettuce leaves,
and garnish with chopped red beets, or, better, chopped celery. This is an
excellent cheap salad, and will serve fifteen persons.

SALMON PUDDING

Remove the bone, skin and oil from two pound cans of salmon. Boil together
two cupfuls of white bread crumbs and one cupful of milk. Take from
the fire, and add one cupful of boiled rice, a teaspoonful of salt, a
saltspoonful of pepper, a teaspoonful of onion juice, and four eggs
slightly beaten. Mix and work in the fish. Press the whole through a
colander, and pack it at once into a mold. Cover and steam three-quarters
of an hour. Serve hot with cream sauce. This will serve twelve persons.

NUT CAKE

At suppers where the yolks of eggs are used for mayonnaise or cooked
dressing, the whites accumulate and are lost if not used in some white
cake.

   1/2 cupful of butter
     2 cupfuls of flour
 1-1/2 cupfuls of sugar
   3/4 cupful  of water
     1 cupful of English walnut or hickory nut meats
     2 rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder
       Whites of four eggs

Cream the butter, add the water and flour, alternately, beating all the
while. Beat the whites, add half of them to the mixture, then all the nuts,
chopped, then the baking powder, dry, and beat well. Fold in the remaining
whites. Bake in a round cake pan in a moderate oven three-quarters of an
hour. When cool, ice the top and decorate it with nut meats.

SCONES FOR TWENTY-FIVE PERSONS

Sift three quarts of flour with six rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder
and two of salt. Beat, without separating, three eggs. Rub into the flour a
quarter of a pound of butter, or three tablespoonfuls of snowdrift. Add to
the eggs one quart and a half of milk, and stir this into the flour. Mix
quickly and drop by spoonfuls in greased baking pans, and bake fifteen
minutes in a quick oven. Serve at once. These are better and more easily
made than biscuits.

POOR MAN'S FRUIT CAKE

 3-1/2 cupfuls of flour
     1 cupful of brown sugar
   1/2 cupful of New Orleans molasses
     1 pound of seeded raisins
     1 cupful of sour milk
   1/2 cupful of butter
     1 teaspoonful of cinnamon
     1 teaspoonful of allspice
     1 teaspoonful of soda

Cut the raisins into halves and flour them with four tablespoonfuls of the
flour. Dissolve the soda in a tablespoonful of water, add it to the thick
sour milk, beat a minute, add the molasses, beat again, add the butter,
melted carefully, and stir in the flour; add the spices, and beat well.
Stir in the raisins, and turn into a greased bread pan. Bake in a
_moderate_ oven one hour. When done, turn from the pan, baste with a syrup,
made by boiling four tablespoonfuls of sugar with three of water, and add
two teaspoonfuls of currant or grape jelly. Shut the cake in a tin box for
a week or more. If made well this is moist and rich at very little cost.

BANANA LAYER

   1/4 cupful of butter
     1 cupful of sugar
   2/3 cupful of water
     2 cupfuls of flour
     2 rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder
       Whites of four eggs

Put together the same as Ice Cream Cake, and bake in three layers. When
cold, put together with Banana Filling.

BANANA FILLING

Boil together one cupful of sugar and a half cupful of water until they
spin a heavy thread, and pour slowly, beating all the while, into the
well-beaten whites of two eggs. Beat until rather stiff and cold. When the
cakes are cold, spread one-third of this filling over one cake, cover with
thin slices of red bananas, put on another cake, on this another third of
filling and bananas, and the remaining cake; cover this with the remaining
filling, and dust thickly with chopped nuts. Do not let this stand too
long, or the filling will absorb moisture from the bananas and run down the
cake.

ICE CREAM CAKE

 1-1/2 cupfuls of sugar
 2-1/2 cupfuls of flour
   1/4 cupful of butter
     1 cupful of water
     2 rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder
       Whites of five eggs

Cream the butter, adding slowly the sugar. Sift the flour with the baking
powder. Add the water and flour alternately to the sugar mixture, and
beat well. Fold in the well-beaten whites, and bake in three layers. Put
together with a soft icing made from the whites of two eggs.

FRUIT JELLY

Dip a fancy mold into cold water, fill it half full of mixed chopped
candied fruits, or use dates, figs and bananas chopped. Fill the mold with
a well-made lemon or orange gelatin. Serve plain, or with whipped cream.

MOCK EGGS

   1/2 box of gelatin
     1 can pared apricots
     1 cupful of sugar
     1 pint of water
       Whites of three eggs
       Juice of three lemons

Cover the gelatin with a half cupful of cold water to soak for a half hour,
add the sugar and the water boiling; stir until the gelatin is dissolved;
add the lemon juice, strain, and cool until congealed but not too hard. Add
the unbeaten whites of eggs, stand the bowl in a pan of cracked ice or cold
water, and beat until the whole mass is as white as snow. Pour into ramekin
dishes or paper cases, press a half apricot, rounding side up, in the
centre, and stand aside in a cold place.

INDEX

ICE CREAMS, WATER ICES AND FROZEN PUDDINGS

   Alaska Bake
   Alexander Bomb
   Almond Ice Cream, Burnt
          Mousse, Burnt
   Apple Ice
         Ice Cream
   Apricot Cream, English
           Ice
           Ice Cream
   Apricots, Frozen
   Arrowroot Cream

   Banana Ice Cream
   Bananas, Frozen
   Biscuit Ice Cream
           Tortoni
   Biscuits à la Marie
            Americana
            German Cherry
            Glacés
   Bisque Ice Cream
   Blocks, Neapolitan
   Bomb, Alexander
         Glacé
   Boston Pudding
   Brown  Bread Ice Cream
   Burnt Almond Ice Cream
                Mousse

   Cabinet Pudding, Iced
   Café Parfait, Quick
   Cake, Iced
   Caramel Ice Cream
                     No. 1
                     No. 2
           Neapolitan
           Parfait, Quick
   Charlotte Glacé
   Cherry Biscuits, German
          Ice
   Chocolate Ice Cream
             Frozen
             Neapolitan
             Ice Cream, No. 1
                        No. 2
             Parfait, Quick
             Sauce, Hot
   Claret Sauce
   Cocoanut Ice Cream
   Coffee, Frozen
           Ice Cream
           Mousse
           Neapolitan
   Compote of Oranges with Iced Rice Pudding
   Compote of Mandarins, with Rice Mousse
   Coupe St. Jacque
   Cranberry Sherbet
   Cream, Arrowroot
          English Apricot
          Orange Gelatin
   Creams, Neapolitan
   Croquettes, Ice Cream
   Cucumber Sorbet
   Curaçao Ice Cream
   Currant and Raspberry Water Ice
           Water Ice
   Custard, Frozen

   Directions for Freezing
   Duchess Mousse

   Egyptian Mousse
   English Apricot Cream

   Foreword
   Frappé
   Frozen Apricots
          Bananas
          Coffee
          Chocolate
          Custard
          Fruits
          Peaches, No. 1
          Peaches, No. 2
          Pineapple
          Plum Pudding
          Puddings and Desserts
          Raspberries
          Strawberries
          Watermelon
   Fruit Salad, Iced
         Water Ice, Mille
   Fruits, Frozen

   Gelatin Cream, Orange
           Ice Cream
   German Cherry Biscuits
   Ginger Ice Cream
          Water Ice
   Glacé, Bomb
          Charlotte
   Glacés, Biscuits
   Gooseberry Sorbet
   Grape Water Ice
   Green Gage Ice Cream

   Hot Chocolate Sauce

   Ice, Apple
        Apricot
        Cherry
        Currant and Raspberry Water
        Currant Water
        Ginger Water
        Grape Water
        Lemon Water
        Mille Fruit Water
        Orange Water
        Pineapple Water
        Pomegranate Water
        Raspberry Water
        Strawberry Water
        Sour Sop
   Ice Cream, Apple
              Apricot
              Banana
              Biscuit
              Bisque
              Brown Bread
              Burnt Almond
              Caramel
              Caramel, No. 1
                       No. 2
              Chocolate
              Coffee
              Croquettes
              Curaçao
              Gelatin
              Ginger
              Green Gage
              Lemon
              Maraschino
              Orange
              Peach
                    No. 1
                    No. 2
              Pineapple
              Pistachio
              Raspberry
              Strawberry
              Vanilla
              Walnut
   Ice Creams, Directions for Freezing
               from Condensed Milk
               Philadelphia
               Quantities for
               Serving
               Sauces for
               Time for Freezing
               To Mold
               To remove from Molds
               To repack
               Use of Fruits in
   Iced Cabinet Pudding
        Cake
        Fruit Salad
        Rice Pudding with Compote of Oranges
   Ices, To Mold
         To Remove from Molds

   Lalla Rookh
   Lemon Ice Cream
         Water Ice
   Lillian Russell

   Maple Panachée
         Sauce
   Maraschino Ice Cream
   Melba, Peaches
   Merry Widow, The
   Mille Fruit Water Ice
   Mint Sherbet
   Monte Carlo Pudding
   Montrose Pudding
            Sauce
   Mousse
          Burnt Almond
          Coffee
          Duchess
          Egyptian
          Pistachio
          Rice with Compote of Mandarins

   Neapolitan Blocks
              Creams
   Nesselrode Pudding
                      Americana
   Nut Sauce

   Orange Gelatin Cream
          Ice Cream
                    No. 1
                    No. 2
          Sauce
          Sherbet
          Soufflé
          Water Ice

   Parfait
           Quick Café
           Quick Caramel
           Quick Chocolate
           Quick Strawberry
   Panachée, Maple
   Peach Ice Cream
   Peaches No. 1, Frozen
           No. 2, Frozen
           Melba
   Philadelphia Ice Creams
   Pineapple, Frozen
              Ice Cream
              Water Ice
   Pistachio Ice Cream
             Mousse
   Plombiere
   Plum Pudding, Frozen
   Pomegranate Water Ice
   Pudding, Boston
            Cabinet, Iced
            Frozen Plum
            Iced Rice, with Compote of Oranges
            Monte Carlo
            Montrose
            Nesselrode
            Nesselrode, Americana
            Queen
            Sultana
            Tutti Frutti
            To Mold
            To Remove from Molds
   Punch, Roman

   Quantities for Serving
   Queen Pudding
   Quick Café Parfait
         Caramel Parfait
         Chocolate Parfait
         Strawberry Parfait

   Raspberry and Currant Water Ice
   Raspberry Ice Cream
             Water Ice
   Raspberries, Frozen
   Rice Mousse with Compote of Mandarins
        Pudding, Iced, with Compote of Oranges
   Roll Sultana
   Roman Punch

   Salad, Iced Fruit
   Sauce, Claret
          Hot Chocolate
          Maple
          Montrose
          Nut
          Orange
          Walnut
   Sauces for Ice Creams
   Sherbet, Cranberry
            Mint
            Orange
            Sour Sop
            Tomato
   Sherbets
   Sorbet, Cucumber
           Gooseberry
           Tomato
   Sorbets
   Soufflé, Orange
   Sour Sop
     Sherbet or Ice
   Strawberry Ice Cream
              Parfait, Quick
              Water Ice
   Strawberries, Frozen
   Sultana Pudding
           Roll

   Time for Freezing
   Tomato Sorbet or Sherbet
   To Mold Ice Creams, Ices or Puddings
     Remove Ice Creams, Ices and Puddings from Molds
     Repack Ice Creams
   Tutti Frutti, Italian Fashion
                 Pudding

   Use of Fruits

   Vanilla Ice Cream
           Neapolitan

   Walnut Ice Cream
          Neapolitan
   Water Ice, Currant
              Currant and Raspberry
              Ginger
              Grape
              Lemon
              Mille Fruit
              Orange
              Pineapple
              Pomegranate
              Raspberry
              Strawberry
   Water Ices and Sherbets or Sorbets
   Watermelon, Frozen
   Walnut Sauce

INDEX

REFRESHMENTS FOR AFFAIRS

   Apple and Nut Salad

   Bagged Veal
   Banana Filling
          Layer
          Salad
   Baked  Sweetbreads
   Bechamel Sauce
   Beef Salad, Roast
   Bellevue  Bouillon
   Boiled Salt Cod Sandwiches
   Boned Quail
         Turkey
   Boudins à la Reine
   Bouillon
            Bellevue
            Chicken
            Clam
            Oyster
   Bread, Nut

   Cake, Ice Cream
         Nut
         Poor Man's Fruit
   Canned Fruit Sandwiches
          Salmon Sandwiches
   Cantaloupe Salad
   Celery Mayonnaise Sandwiches
   Cheese Sandwiches
   Chicken à la Creme
           à la King
           Bouillon
           Croquettes
           Galantine of
           Mousse
           Salad
                 Sandwiches
           Timbale
   Church Suppers, Suggestions for
   Clam  Bouillon
   Cod Sandwiches, Boiled Salt
   Coffee for Large Home Affairs
   Cold Dishes
   Cooked Dressing
   Crab Backs à la Caracas
        Meat à la Dewey
        Salad
   Crabs, Deviled
          Ravigot
   Cream Cake, Ice
         Mushroom Sauce
   Croquettes, Chicken
               Oyster
   Cucumber Molds
   Cutlets, Lobster

   Deviled Crabs
   Dressing, Cooked
             French

   East Indian Salad
   Eggs, Mock

   Filling, Banana
   French Dressing
          Potato Salad
   Fruit Cake, Poor Man's
         Jelly
         Sandwiches, Canned

   Galantine of Chicken
   Glaze
   Grandmother's Potato Salad

   Home Affairs, Coffee for Large
   Honolulu Sandwiches

   Ice Cream Cake

   Jelly, Fruit
          Sandwiches
   Jellied Veal

   Lamb Salad
   Lamb's Sweetbreads in Paper Cases
   Large Home Affairs, Coffee for
   Layer, Banana
   Lobster Cutlets
           Newburg
           Salad

   Macedoine Salad
   Man-of-War Salad
   Mayonnaise Sandwiches, Celery
   Meat Roll, Nut
   Meat Sandwiches
   Mock Eggs
   Molds, Cucumber
          Tomato
   Mousse,  Chicken
   Mushroom Sauce, Cream

   Nut and Apple Salad
       Bread
       Cake
       Meat Roll
      Sandwiches

   Oyster Bouillon
          Croquettes

   Pate-de-foie-gras in Aspic
   Poor Man's Fruit Cake
   Potato Salad
                French
                Grandmother's
   Poulet en Bellevue
   Poultry and Game Dishes
   Pudding, Salmon
   Purée, Tomato, à la Rorer

   Quail, Boned

   Ravigot Crabs
   Refreshments for Affairs
   Roast Beef Salad
   Roll, Nut Meat
         Veal

   Salad, Apple and Nut
          Banana
          Cantaloupe
          Chicken
          Crab
          East Indian
          French Potato
          Grandmother's Potato
          Lamb
          Lobster
          Macedoine
          Man-of-War
          Potato
          Roast Beef
          Sandwiches, Chicken
          Sweetbread
          Tongue
   Salads
   Salmon Pudding
          Sandwiches, Canned
   Salt Cod Sandwiches, Boiled
   Sandwiches
              Boiled Salt Cod
              Canned Fruit
                     Salmon
              Celery Mayonnaise
              Chicken Salad
              Cheese
              Honolulu
              Jelly
              Meat
              Nut
              Sardine
              Sweet
   Sardine  Sandwiches
   Sauce Bechamel
         Cream Mushroom
         Suedoise
         Tartar
   Scones
   Shell Fish Dishes
   Soups
         Bellevue Bouillon
         Bouillon
         Chicken Bouillon
         Clam Bouillon
         Glaze
         Oyster Bouillon
         Tomato Purée à la Rorer
   Spanish Stew
   Stew, Spanish
   Suedoise Sauce
   Suggestions for Church Suppers
   Sweetbreads
               à la Bordelaise
               à la Creme
                          No. 1
                          No. 2
               à la Newburg
               Baked
               Lambs, in Paper Cases
   Sweetbread Salad
   Sweet Sandwiches

   Tartar Sauce
   Timbale, Chicken
   Tomatoes à l'Algerienne
            en Surprise
   Tomato Molds
          Purée, à la Rorer
   Tongue Salad
   Turkey, Boned

   Veal, Bagged
         Jellied
         Roll

Sandwiches

                          By MRS. S. T. RORER

                 Author of Mrs. Rorer's New Cook Book,
            Philadelphia Cook Book, Bread and Bread-Making,
                  and other Valuable Works on Cookery.

                      Revised and Enlarged Edition

                              PHILADELPHIA
                           ARNOLD AND COMPANY
                           420 SANSOM STREET

               Copyright, 1894, 1912, by Mrs. S. T. Rorer
                          All Rights Reserved

                  Printed at the Sign of the Ivy Leaf
                     in Sansom Street, Philadelphia
                      by George H Buchanan Company

CONTENTS

  SANDWICHES                                 7
    To Keep Sandwiches                       9
    Bread                                    9
    Yeast                                   10
    German Potato Bread                     11
    Nineteenth Century Bread                12
    White Bread                             12
    Nut Bread                               13
    Anchovy Sandwiches                      13
    Anchovy and Egg Sandwiches              14
    Cold Beef Sandwiches                    14
    Caviar Sandwiches No. 1                 15
    Caviar Sandwiches No. 2                 15
    Celery Sandwiches                       16
    Celery Salad Sandwiches                 16
    Rolled Bread and Butter Sandwiches      17
    Rolled Chicken Sandwiches               17
    Sandwiches à la Rorer                   18
    Chicken and Almond Sandwiches           19
    Chicken and Lettuce à la Kendall        19
    Princess Sandwiches                     20
    Windsor Sandwiches                      20
    Tea Biscuit Sandwiches                  21
    Cheese Sandwiches No. 1                 23
    Cheese Sandwiches No. 2                 23
    Cheese Sandwiches No. 3                 24
    Workman's Cheese Sandwiches             24
    German Sandwiches                       25
    Honolulu Sandwiches                     25
    My Favorite                             26
    Creole Sandwiches                       26
    Curry Sandwiches                        27
    Deviled Cheese Sandwiches               28
    Roquefort Sandwiches                    28
    Camembert Sandwiches                    28
    Cottage Cheese Sandwiches               29
    Salt-Cucumber Sandwiches                29
    Cucumber Sandwiches                     30
    Curried Oyster Sandwiches               31
    Curried Egg Sandwiches                  32
    Curried Sardine Sandwiches              32
    Curried Chicken Sandwiches              33
    Crab Sandwiches                         33
    Cream of Chicken Sandwiches             34
    Deviled Sandwiches                      35
    Egg Sandwiches No. 1                    35
    Egg Sandwiches No. 2                    36
    Fish Sandwiches                         36
    Flaked Fish Sandwiches                  36
    Spanish Sandwiches                      37
    Salmon Sandwiches                       37
    Swedish Sandwiches                      38
    French Chicken Sandwiches               39
    Game Sandwiches                         39
    German Sandwiches                       40
    Ham Sandwiches                          40
    Indian Sandwiches                       41
    Lettuce Sandwiches                      41
    Lobster Sandwiches                      42
    Lobster Salad Sandwiches                43
    Mutton Sandwiches                       43
    Mutton Club Sandwiches                  44
    English Mutton Sandwiches               45
    Spring Lamb Sandwiches                  45
    Turkish Sandwiches                      45
    Picnic Sandwiches                       46
    Potato Sandwiches                       47
    Salad Sandwiches                        47
    Fish Salad Sandwiches                   48
    Sardine Salad Sandwiches                48
    Sardine Sandwiches                      49
    Swiss Sandwiches                        49
    Tongue Sandwiches                       50
    Sandwich Dressing                       51
    Farmer's Sandwiches                     51
    Farmer's Egg Sandwiches                 52
    Deviled Beef Sandwiches                 52
    Corned Beef Sandwiches                  53
    Plain Corned Beef Sandwiches            53
    Sandwiches à la Stanley                 54
    English Salt-Beef Sandwiches            54
    Sandwiches à la Bernhardt               55
    East Indian Lentil Sandwiches           55
    Nut-Butter Sandwiches                   56
    Filipino Sandwiches                     56

  SWEET SANDWICHES                          57
    Cherry Sandwiches                       57
    Fig Sandwiches                          58
    Fruit and Nut Sandwiches                58
    Orange Marmalade Sandwiches             59
    Sponge Cake Sandwiches                  59
    Fresh Fruit Sandwiches                  60
    Raisin Sandwiches                       60
    Afternoon Teas                          61
    Nut and Apple Sandwiches                61
    Grape Fruit Sandwiches                  62
    Ginger Sandwiches                       62

  CANAPÉS                                   63
    Anchovy Canapés                         63
    Caviar Canapés                          63
    Swedish Canapés                         64
    Chopped Tongue Canapés                  64
    Sardine Canapés                         65
    Fish Canapés                            65
    Deviled Oyster Canapés                  66
    Pâté de Foie Gras Canapés               66
    Hot Canapés                             67
    Fish Canapés                            67
    Lobster Canapés                         69
    Sweetbread Canapés                      70
    Canapés à la Trinidad                   71
    Game Canapés                            72
    Lamb Canapés                            73
    Club-House Sandwiches                   74

  SCENTED SANDWICHES                        75
    Rose Sandwiches                         75
    Nasturtium Sandwiches                   76
    Violet Sandwiches                       76

SANDWICHES

Sandwiches may be made from one of three or four kinds of bread; whole
wheat bread, Boston brown or oatmeal bread, white bread and rye bread
made into square, deep loaves; in fact, all bread used for sandwiches
should be made especially for the purpose, so that the slices may be in
good form, and sufficiently large to cut into fancy shapes.

The butter may be used plain, slightly softened or it may be seasoned
and flavored with just a suspicion of paprika, a little white pepper,
and a few drops of Worcestershire sauce.

For ordinary sandwiches use the bread without toasting. For canapés,
toast is to be preferred. Sandwiches are principally used for buffet
lunches or evening sociables, where only a light, substantial lunch is
required. In these days they are made in great varieties. Almost all
sorts of meat, if properly seasoned, may be made into delicious
sandwiches. If the meat is slightly moistened with cream or olive oil,
sandwiches for traveling, provided each one is carefully wrapped in
oiled paper, will keep fresh three or four days. The small French rolls
may have the centres scooped out, the spaces filled with chicken salad
or chopped oysters, and served as sandwiches. The rolls may be made
especially for that purpose, not more than two inches long and one and a
half inches wide; with coffee, they make an attractive meal easily
served.

Ordinary sandwiches may be made either square, triangular, long, narrow,
round or crescent shaped. One slice of bread will usually make one round
sandwich and one crescent, provided the cutting is done economically.
Meat used for sandwiches should be chopped very fine and slightly
moistened with cream, melted butter, olive oil or mayonnaise dressing
well seasoned. Fish should be rubbed or pounded in a mortar; add enough
sauce tartare to make it sufficiently moist to easily spread.

Turkey, chicken, game, tongue, beef and mutton, with their proper
seasonings, moistened with either mayonnaise or French dressing, make
exceedingly nice sandwiches.

To Keep Sandwiches

It is frequently necessary to make sandwiches several hours before they
are needed. As they dry quickly they must be carefully wrapped or they
will be unpalatable. Wring from cold water two ordinary tea towels; put
one on top of the other. An old tablecloth will answer the purpose very
well. As fast as the sandwiches are made put them on top of the damp
towel; when you have the desired quantity, cover the top with moist
lettuce leaves; fold over the towels, and put outside of this a
perfectly dry, square cloth. Sandwiches will keep in this way for
several hours, and in perfectly good condition. On a very warm day they
may be covered all over with moist lettuce leaves; use the green ones
that are not so palatable or sightly for garnishing.

Bread

To make good sandwiches, especially when one is a long way from a city,
it is quite necessary to know how to make sandwich bread, which is quite
different, or should be, from ordinary bread. Compressed yeast is always
to be preferred, but if one cannot get it, the next best is good
home-made yeast. Bread for sandwiches must be baked in rather large
square pans, and must be just a little lighter and softer than bread for
the table. The following recipes will, I am sure, help the "out of town"
housewife. Nut bread is usually made into simple bread and butter
sandwiches; the nuts in the bread are quite sufficient filling.

Yeast

  4 good sized potatoes
  1 quart of boiling water
  2 tablespoonfuls of sugar
  1 tablespoonful of salt

Pare and grate the potatoes into the hot water, stir over the fire
until it reaches boiling point, and simmer gently for five minutes. Take
from the fire, add the sugar and salt, and when lukewarm add a cupful of
yeast, or two dry yeast cakes that have been moistened in a little
water, or one cake of compressed yeast. Turn the mixture into a jar and
cover with a saucer. Stir it down as fast as it comes to the top of the
jar. When it falls, or ceases to be very light, which will be five or
six hours, pour it into a bottle, put the cork in very loosely and stand
it in a cold place. Use one cupful of this to each two loaves of bread.

German Potato Bread

Boil one potato until tender; mash it through a sieve, add to it a half
pint of warm water and a teaspoonful of sugar. Stir in one cupful of
flour and one cupful of yeast; let this stand for two hours, or until
very light. It is better to make this at seven o'clock, so the bread may
be sponged at nine or ten. Scald a pint of milk, add to it a pint of
water, beat in a quart and a pint of flour. The batter should be thick
enough to drop, rather than pour from the spoon. Then stir in the potato
starter, and stand in a place about 65° Fahr. over night. Next morning
knead thoroughly, adding flour. Put this aside until very light, about
two hours, then mold into loaves, put it into square greased pans, and
when light bake in a moderately quick oven three-quarters of an hour.

This recipe will make two box loaves and a dozen rolls.

Nineteenth Century Bread

Scald a pint of milk, add a pint of water, a teaspoonful of salt, and
when lukewarm, one compressed yeast cake moistened in a little warm
water. Add sufficient whole wheat flour to make a batter, beat
thoroughly, cover and stand aside two and a half hours; then stir,
adding more whole wheat flour until you have a dough. Knead quickly,
separate into loaves, put each in a square greased pan, cover and stand
in a warm place about one hour, until very light. Slash the top with a
sharp knife, brush with water and bake in a moderate oven three-quarters
of an hour.

White Bread

Add a pint of water to a pint of scalded milk; when lukewarm add one
compressed yeast cake, moistened, and a teaspoonful of salt. Add
sufficient flour gradually, beating all the while, to make a dough.
Knead this dough until it is soft and elastic, and free from stickiness.
Put it into a greased bowl, stand it in a warm place three hours.
Separate it into loaves, knead five minutes, put the loaves in square
greased pans and stand aside until very light. Slash the top with a
sharp knife, brush with water, and bake in a moderate oven
three-quarters of an hour. This should make two loaves, or a dozen bread
sticks and a dozen rolls.

Nut Bread

   1 quart of flour
   4 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder
   1 teaspoonful of salt
   1 cupful of chopped nuts
  1½ cupfuls of milk

Add the baking powder and salt to the flour and sift them. Add the nuts,
mix thoroughly and gradually add the milk. Knead this into a loaf, put
it into a square pan, brush the top with melted butter, let it stand
twenty minutes, and bake in a moderate oven three-quarters of an hour.

Anchovy Sandwiches

Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, adding gradually two
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, a saltspoonful of paprika, two
tablespoonfuls of anchovy paste. Spread this on thin slices of bread,
put two together, trim off the crusts, and cut into triangles.

Anchovy and Egg Sandwiches

Mash the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs with two tablespoonfuls of
melted butter or olive oil, add a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of
paprika and a tablespoonful of anchovy paste or two mashed anchovies.
Spread this between thin slices of buttered bread, press the slices
together, trim off the crusts and cut into triangles.

Sardines may be used in the place of anchovies.

Cold Beef Sandwiches

Take the remains of cold roasted beef, and chop very fine; put it into
a bowl; to each half pint of meat, add a half teaspoonful of salt, a
tablespoonful of tomato catsup, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce
and a teaspoonful of melted butter; work this together. Cut the crust
from the ends of a loaf of whole wheat bread; butter lightly and slice;
so continue until you have the desired number of slices; spread the
slices with a layer of the seasoned meat; put two slices together, and
cut into desired shapes.

Caviar Sandwiches No. 1

Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream; add two tablespoonfuls
of onion juice, the same of lemon, a saltspoonful of paprika, and
gradually four tablespoonfuls of caviar. Spread this on thin slices of
brown bread or pumpernickel, put two together, press lightly and cut
into long, narrow shapes.

Caviar Sandwiches No. 2

Cut slices of bread in crescent-shaped pieces, butter one side and
toast. Have ready two hard-boiled eggs, remove yolks, put them through
sieve, chop whites very fine, and spread toast with layer of caviar;
then sprinkle over first a little of whites, then a little of the yolks
of the eggs. Put over in the form of a ring a piece of onion, the onion
having first been cut into thin slices, and then separated.

Celery Sandwiches

Cut slices of bread, butter one side and toast. Cut the white part of
celery into thin slices, cover it over the bread, then cover this with a
layer of mayonnaise dressing, cover with another piece of toast, cut
into squares and serve. All sandwiches of this kind must be used as soon
as made.

Celery Salad Sandwiches

Put four eggs into warm water; bring to the boiling point, and keep
there, without boiling, for fifteen minutes. Take the white portion from
one head of celery; wash and chop it very fine. Remove the shells from
the hard-boiled eggs, and either chop them very fine or put through a
vegetable press, and mix with them the celery; add a half teaspoonful of
salt and a dash of pepper. Butter the bread before you cut it from the
loaf. After you have a sufficient quantity cut, put over each slice a
layer of the mixed egg and celery; put right in the center of this a
teaspoonful of mayonnaise dressing, and sort of smooth it all over. Put
two pieces together and press them lightly. Trim off the crusts, and cut
the sandwiches into pieces about two inches wide and the length of the
slices.

Rolled Bread and Butter Sandwiches

Beat the butter to a cream. Remove the crusts from the loaf, butter each
slice before you cut it off, and roll at once. These may be tied with
narrow baby ribbon or wrapped at once in waxed paper, fringing and
twisting the ends.

Rolled Chicken Sandwiches

Trim the crusts from the entire loaf, butter each slice and cut it off
as thin as possible; spread it quickly with the mixture, roll and wrap
it at once in waxed paper. If the bread is home-made and cracks in the
rolling, put a colander over a kettle of boiling water, throw in it a
few slices at a time, as soon as they have softened spread them with
soft butter, then cover with the mixture, roll and wrap in waxed paper.

To make the mixture, chop sufficient cold boiled chicken to make a
pint. Rub together two level tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour,
add slowly a half cupful of hot milk, stir over the fire for a minute,
then add the chicken, a level teaspoonful of salt, a half teaspoonful of
celery seed, a saltspoonful of white pepper, a dash of red pepper, a
teaspoonful of onion juice and a grating of nutmeg; mix and cool. This
will make four dozen rolled sandwiches.

Sandwiches à la Rorer

Chop sufficient white meat of cooked chicken to make a half pint.
Select two fine bunches of cress, and with a sharp knife shave it very
fine. Wash and dry the crisp portion from a head of lettuce. Put the
yolks of two eggs into a saucepan, add the juice from two lemons and
stir over hot water until the mixture is thick; take from the fire and
add slowly two tablespoonfuls of olive oil; add this to the chicken and
season with a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Butter a
slice of white bread, put over a rather thick layer of the chicken
mixture, then a slice of brown bread, buttered on both sides; cover this
with a thick layer of cress, dust it lightly with salt and pepper, then
another slice of white bread, buttered; press these firmly together,
trim the crusts and cut into fingers.

Chicken and Almond Sandwiches

Chop sufficient cold cooked chicken to make a half pint. Chop a quarter
of a pound of blanched almonds, add them to the chicken, add four
tablespoonfuls of cream, a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of
pepper; mix thoroughly, put between thin slices of buttered bread and
cut into crescents or rounds.

Chicken and Lettuce à la Kendall

Put sufficient cold boiled chicken through the meat chopper to make a
half pint, pound it in a mortar or rub it in a bowl with the hard-boiled
yolks of four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of thick cream, a half
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and if you have it, two
saltspoonfuls of celery seed; in the winter you may add a half cupful of
finely chopped celery. Butter thin slices of white bread, cover them
with this mixture, place on top a slice of brown bread buttered on both
sides, then a thick layer of shredded celery, with a tablespoonful of
mayonnaise in the middle, then another slice of buttered white bread;
press together, trim the crusts and cut into fingers.

Princess Sandwiches

Chop sufficient cold chicken to make a half pint, add the juice of half
a lemon, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter or olive oil, twelve
walnuts chopped very fine, a half teaspoonful of paprika and a half
teaspoonful of salt. Put this mixture between thin slices of buttered
bread, trim the crusts and cut into fingers.

Windsor Sandwiches

Chop sufficient cold boiled chicken to make a half pint, add a half
cupful of finely chopped celery, a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of
pepper and four tablespoonfuls of cream; mix. Chop sufficient cold
boiled ham or tongue to make a half pint, add a tablespoonful of tomato
catsup, a few drops of Worcestershire sauce and a dash of pepper. Trim
the crusts from an entire loaf of bread, butter the end of the loaf and
cut off a thin slice, and so continue until you have the desired
quantity of bread.

Shred one head of Romaine or a bunch of cress. This of course must be
crisp and dry. Put a layer of the chicken mixture on the buttered side
of a slice of bread, put on top another slice of buttered bread, then a
thick layer of the shredded cress or Romaine. Put a thick layer of the
tongue mixture on another slice of bread and cover it over the cress.
Press firmly together and cut the slices directly into halves the long
way. Wrap in waxed paper or tie with baby ribbon. Served at afternoon
teas. If well made, they are the most elaborate and dainty of all
sandwiches.

Tea Biscuit Sandwiches

Put one quart of flour into a bowl; add four level teaspoonfuls of
baking powder, a teaspoonful of salt, and sift. Rub in two level
tablespoonfuls of butter and add sufficient milk to make a dough. This
dough must not be soft, but must be sufficiently stiff to handle
quickly. Knead quickly and roll into a sheet a quarter of an inch thick.
Cut into good-sized round biscuits; they must be at least two and a half
to three inches in diameter. Brush them with milk and bake in a quick
oven. When done, cut the center from each biscuit, leaving a wall one
inch thick; take out the crumb. Fill this space with deviled chicken.
Chop sufficient cold cooked chicken to make a pint; add gradually eight
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, cream or olive oil, a dash of cayenne,
a saltspoonful of white pepper, a saltspoonful of celery seed and a
saltspoonful of paprika. When thoroughly mixed fill the spaces just even
and send at once to the table. These are nice for porch suppers, and may
be served with either tea, coffee or chocolate, or may be used as an
accompaniment to mayonnaise of tomatoes.

Cheese Sandwiches No. 1

Butter thin slices of pumpernickel or brown bread; put between each two
slices a very thin layer of Swiss cheese, put two together, and cut into
triangles; garnish with cress.

Cheese Sandwiches No. 2

Chop fine a quarter of a pound of soft American cheese; put it into a
saucepan, add the yolk of one egg beaten with two tablespoonfuls of
cream, a saltspoonful of salt, a dash of red pepper and half a
teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Have ready cut and buttered a
sufficient number of slices of bread, either white or whole wheat. Stir
the cheese over the fire until it is thoroughly melted; take from the
fire and when cool spread it between the slices of bread and butter;
that is, spread it on one slice and cover with the other; press two
together and cut into forms.

Cheese Sandwiches No. 3

Rub or pound until perfectly smooth or well mixed one tablespoonful of
butter, two tablespoonfuls of soft club-house cheese, a tablespoonful of
grated Parmesan, a saltspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of anchovy
paste; add a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a half saltspoonful of
pepper. Cut the bread into thin slices, toast it until it is crisp, not
hard; spread this mixture on one slice, cover it with another, and cut
into shapes.

Workman's Cheese Sandwiches

Cut slices of brown bread about a half inch thick. Do not remove the
crusts. Take a half pint of cottage cheese; press it through a sieve;
add to it two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, a half teaspoonful of
salt and two tablespoonfuls of thick cream. Beat until smooth and light.
Spread each slice of bread thickly with the cheese mixture, then put a
very thin slice of white bread on top of the cheese, then cheese and
brown bread, press together. Have the outside brown bread with a layer
of cheese on each, and between the layers of cheese a slice of white
bread. These are palatable, and are very much better for the average
workman than bread and ham.

German Sandwiches

Put a half pound of Swiss cheese through the meat grinder; add to it the
yolks of two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a dash of cayenne
and a half teaspoonful of salt. Rub until you have a perfectly smooth
paste. Put this mixture between layers of buttered rye bread and serve.
Do not trim the crusts nor cut.

Honolulu Sandwiches

Put two Spanish sweet peppers (pimientos), one Neufchatel cheese, one
pared and quartered apple and twelve blanched almonds through the meat
grinder. These may be put through alternately, or mixed as you grind.
Rub the mixture, add a half teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of
paprika. Spread this between thin slices of buttered white or brown
bread. Press, cut the crusts and cut into fingers.

My Favorite

  ½ pound of American cheese
  ½ cupful of thick sour cream
  1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce
  1 tablespoonful of tomato catsup
  ½ teaspoonful of salt
  ½ teaspoonful of paprika

Chop or mash the cheese, add gradually the cream, and when smooth add
all the other ingredients. Spread this mixture on thin slices of
buttered bread, cover the top with chopped cress, then cover with
another slice of bread, press the two together, trim off the crusts and
cut into triangles.

Creole Sandwiches

Put a half pound of American cheese through your meat grinder, add to
it one Neufchatel cheese, mix well together; add one fresh peeled
chopped tomato. Peel the tomato and cut it into halves; squeeze out the
seeds and chop the flesh quite fine. Add one finely chopped sweet red
pepper. Add a half teaspoonful of salt and a little black pepper; mix
and spread between slices of white bread, or you may use one slice of
white with one slice of whole wheat bread. These are usually served cut
into rounds with an ordinary cake cutter. If you cut these economically
you can make one good sized round sandwich and a crescent from each, or
if you use a very small cutter you should make four round sandwiches.

Curry Sandwiches

Rub one Neufchatel or Philadelphia cream cheese to a paste. Add one
pimiento, chopped fine; a dozen almonds put through the meat grinder; a
dozen pecan meats, also ground; a tablespoonful of tomato catsup, a
level teaspoonful of curry and two tablespoonfuls of desiccated grated
cocoanut. Mix thoroughly, add sufficient olive oil to make a smooth
paste, and spread between thin, unbuttered slices of white bread; trim
the crusts and cut into long fingers. These are nice to serve with plain
lettuce salad at dinner.

Deviled Cheese Sandwiches

Put one pound of American cheese through your meat chopper. Add two
tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire
sauce, a half teaspoonful of paprika, a dash of cayenne, two
tablespoonfuls of olive oil or melted butter, four tablespoonfuls of
sherry and a half teaspoonful of salt. Mix until perfectly smooth, and
spread between thin slices of buttered bread; trim the crusts and cut
into triangles.

Roquefort Sandwiches

Mash a quarter of a pound of Roquefort cheese, adding gradually
sufficient melted butter to make a paste. Spread this between slices of
buttered bread, press together, trim the crusts, and cut into fingers.

Camembert Sandwiches

Spread Camembert cheese between slices of buttered whole wheat bread,
trim the crusts and cut into shape. These may be served after lunch with
coffee, or are exceedingly nice for picnics or for afternoons where
coffee is served.

Cottage Cheese Sandwiches

These are nice for country picnics. The cottage cheese should be made
rather dry. After it has drained and is quite dry, moisten it by adding
either thick cream or melted butter; do not make it too soft. Add a
saltspoonful of black pepper and a palatable seasoning of salt. Spread
between slices of buttered whole wheat or white bread, press the two
together, trim the crusts and cut into shape.

Salt-Cucumber Sandwiches

Spread the bread, and cut the slices about half an inch thick. Then cut
a German or Holland cucumber into very thin slices; put these slices all
over the bread. Take the center from a head of lettuce; hold it
together, and slice it down in sort of shreds; put this over the
cucumber, and have ready some white meat of chicken, cut into the
thinnest possible slices, and cover the lettuce with chicken; then
sprinkle over more shredded lettuce and a little mayonnaise; put over
another slice of buttered bread; press the two together, trim into shape
and serve on a napkin in a pretty wicker basket.

Cucumber Sandwiches

These are very nice to serve with a fish course in place of bread or
rolls and a salad. Slice the cucumbers very thin and soak them in ice
water for one or two hours. They must be crisp and brittle and made just
at serving time. Beat together three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one
tablespoonful of vinegar, a saltspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper;
stand this dressing on the ice until it thickens. Butter thin slices of
bread, cover them with a layer of cucumbers that have been drained and
dried on a napkin, sprinkle over the dressing, put on another layer of
buttered bread. Press together, trim the crusts and cut into triangles.
Heap these at once on a napkin and send to the table.

Curried Oyster Sandwiches

Butter a slice of bread before you take it off the loaf; cut it about a
half inch thick and remove the crusts. First of all, cover each slice
with a thin layer of hard-boiled egg that has been pressed through a
sieve or chopped very fine. In the center of this sandwich put the soft
parts of six pickled oysters. Put a tablespoonful of butter and one of
flour into a little saucepan; mix without melting; add a gill of thick
cream, a teaspoonful of onion juice and a teaspoonful of curry and a
half teaspoonful of turmeric. Bring to boiling point; beat and stand
away until perfectly cold. When you are ready to serve the sandwiches,
cover each one with a thin layer of this sauce; put a slice of bread on
top, press together, and serve. The sauce must not go over the
sandwiches until you are ready to serve; and then, remember, you have
but one layer between two slices of bread.

Curried Egg Sandwiches

Hard boil four eggs, remove the yolks from the whites; chop the whites
very, very fine, and press the yolks through a sieve. Add to the yolks
gradually four tablespoonfuls of melted butter or olive oil, a half
teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of onion juice, a half teaspoonful of
curry, and rub until thoroughly smooth. Spread thin slices of bread,
cover them with a very thin layer of the yolk mixture, then a layer of
the chopped whites, another slice of buttered bread. Press together,
trim the crusts and cut into shapes.

Curried Sardine Sandwiches

Remove the heads, tails and bones from one large box of sardines. Rub
them to a paste, add a tablespoonful of melted butter, a half
teaspoonful of curry powder and a saltspoonful of salt. Spread this
mixture between slices of buttered bread, press the two together, trim
the crusts and cut into shape.

Curried Chicken Sandwiches

Chop sufficient cold boiled chicken to make a half pint. Rub together
one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of flour; add a half
cupful of cold milk, and stir over hot water until you have a smooth,
thick paste. Add the chicken gradually to this, mashing and rubbing all
the while. Add a level teaspoonful of curry powder, a half teaspoonful
of salt, a teaspoonful of onion juice and a teaspoonful of lemon juice.
When cold, spread between layers of buttered bread, trim the crusts and
cut into shapes.

Almost any bits of left-over meat may be substituted for the chicken and
made into sandwiches of this kind.

Crab Sandwiches

Remove the meat from six hard-boiled crabs; mix it with four
tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing; put it between slices of bread
and butter and press two together; trim off the crusts, cut into
triangles and serve at once.

Crab and lobster sandwiches should not be allowed to stand for more than
an hour, and then must be wrapped carefully in a clean, damp cloth.

Cream of Chicken Sandwiches

Take sufficient white meat of chicken to make a half cup; chop and
pound it; reduce it to a paste. Put a teaspoonful of granulated gelatin
in two tablespoonfuls of cold water; then stand it over the fire until
it has dissolved. Whip a half pint of cream to a stiff froth. Add the
gelatin to the chicken; add a teaspoonful of grated horseradish and a
half teaspoonful of salt. Stir this until it begins to thicken, cool and
add carefully the whipped cream and stand it away until very cold. When
ready to make the sandwiches, butter the bread and cut the slices a
little thicker than the usual slices for sandwiches. Cover each slice
with this cream mixture; trim off the crusts and cut sandwiches into
fancy shapes. Garnish the top with olives cut into rings. In the center
of each sandwich make just a little mound of capers, using the olives at
the four corners; each sandwich may be garnished in a different way.
Little pieces of celery, with the white top attached, make also a pretty
garnish. These sandwiches are not covered with a second slice of bread.

Deviled Sandwiches

Chop a quarter of a pound of cold, boiled tongue very fine; add to it
two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a dash of red pepper, a teaspoonful of
Worcestershire sauce, and a saltspoonful of paprika; mix and add the
hard-boiled yolks of three eggs that have been pressed through a sieve.
Put this between thin slices of bread and butter, and garnish with water
cress.

Egg Sandwiches No. 1

Take the hard-boiled yolks of six eggs and rub them to a paste, adding
gradually two tablespoonfuls of olive oil or thick cream. Add a dash of
paprika, one-half teaspoonful of salt, spread and finish precisely the
same as tongue sandwich.

Egg Sandwiches No. 2

Put thin slices of hard-boiled eggs between slices of brown bread and
butter; dust the egg slightly with salt and pepper. Trim the edges of
the sandwiches with either cress or lettuce, and cut into triangles or
squares.

Fish Sandwiches

Rub to a smooth paste a quarter of a pound of cold, boiled fish; add
half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoonful of olive
oil, a half saltspoonful of salt, and a half saltspoonful of black
pepper. Spread the slices of bread on the loaf, cut them off about a
half inch in thickness; trim off the crusts, put on each slice dainty
lettuce leaves, and fill the center with the fish mixture. Cover with
another layer of buttered bread from which you have trimmed the crusts,
and press the two together.

Flaked Fish Sandwiches

Flake cold boiled white fleshed fish, dust it with salt and pepper and
sprinkle it with lemon juice. Butter thin slices of brown bread; do not
trim off the crusts. Put on one slice a layer of thin crisp cucumber,
cover this with flaked fish, put a tablespoonful of mayonnaise in the
center, put on another layer of chopped cress, then a slice of buttered
brown bread. Press together and cut into halves.

Spanish Sandwiches

Mash the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs, add twelve boiled shrimps,
either pounded in a mortar or chopped very fine. Add three
tablespoonfuls of olive oil or butter, a tablespoonful of tomato catsup,
two saltspoonfuls of paprika, four tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, a
half teaspoonful of salt, and at last stir in four tablespoonfuls of
mayonnaise dressing. Spread this between thin slices of buttered bread,
trim the crusts and cut into shape.

Salmon Sandwiches

Flake cold boiled salmon, or open a can of salmon, drain it free from
oil and break the fish apart in good-sized flakes; sprinkle them with
salt, pepper and lemon juice. Butter slices of whole wheat or brown
bread, cover with a layer of the salmon, then a thick layer of chopped
cress or shredded celery. Put a tablespoonful of mayonnaise in the
middle and cover with another slice of buttered bread. Press together,
trim the crusts and cut into triangles.

Swedish Sandwiches

Flake any cold cooked fish, dust it with salt, pepper and lemon juice.
Rub the bottom of a bowl with a clove of garlic, add a half cupful of
mayonnaise, four finely chopped gherkins, twelve chopped olives and two
tablespoonfuls of capers. Mix and stir in two tablespoonfuls of finely
chopped parsley. Spread a thin layer of this dressing over a plain slice
of bread, do not butter the bread, cover it with fish, put on top a
crisp lettuce leaf, then cover with another slice of bread that has been
spread with the dressing. Press, trim the crusts and cut into fingers.

French Chicken Sandwiches

Chop the white meat of one chicken very fine; pound to a paste. Add
one-half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of red pepper. Cover one
tablespoonful of gelatin, with a tablespoonful of cold water, soak it
for about five minutes, then add to it ten tablespoonfuls of thick
cream; stand this over teakettle and stir until gelatin is dissolved.
Now, beat into this the chicken, stand it aside in a square pan until
cold. Cut the chicken into very thin slices; put a slice on a slice of
buttered bread; cover this with another slice of bread and cut into
shape.

Game Sandwiches

Remove the breasts from two partridges after they have been baked or
roasted. Chop the meat rather fine; reduce two sardines to a paste.
While you are mashing the sardines, add gradually about two
tablespoonfuls of soft butter, a dash of red pepper and a half
teaspoonful of salt. Spread the bread first with the sardine paste; then
sprinkle over the chopped game; dust this with salt and a little pepper;
cover with another slice of bread, press lightly; trim into shape.

German Sandwiches

Cut thin slices of rye bread; butter before you take them from the loaf.
Spread each slice with a thin layer of limburger cheese. Cut bologna
sausage into the thinnest possible slices; cover the limburger with the
sliced bologna, and then a thin piece of pumpernickel; cover with
another slice of bread that has been coated with a layer of cheese.
Press the two together; do not remove the crusts. Serve on a napkin in a
wicker basket.

Ham Sandwiches

Chop cold boiled ham very fine. To each cupful of this ham, after it
has been chopped, stir in two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, dash of
red pepper and about one-half teaspoonful of onion juice. Have bread
sufficiently stale to cut nicely. Remove end crust, butter and cut a
very thin slice; remove the crusts, and spread with the ham paste. Serve
same as tongue sandwiches.

Indian Sandwiches

Take two sardines, remove skin and bones, put them into mortar and pound
fine; add a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, a dash of salt and red pepper
and the hard-boiled yolks of six eggs, rubbed smooth; stir two
tablespoonfuls of olive oil into the mixture at the last. Cut bread into
slices about half an inch thick, remove crusts, then cut into
crescent-shaped pieces, toast, butter and cover with the mixture, serve
at once.

Lettuce Sandwiches

Have bread made into a large, square loaf, take off the crust from one
end, butter and then cut into slices. Take the white part of lettuce,
wash and wipe it perfectly dry; have ready three hard-boiled eggs,
remove the yolks, put them through a sieve and rub to a perfectly smooth
paste with four tablespoonfuls of very thick cream. Add one-half
tablespoonful lemon juice and then stir in about four tablespoonfuls of
whipped cream; season with red pepper and add teaspoonful of salt. Cover
slices of bread with leaves of lettuce, put on a goodly quantity of
dressing and then on top of this another slice of bread. This may be
served in squares tied together with ribbon, or they may be pressed and
cut into long narrow pieces. Of course, they must be made only a short
time before serving.

Lobster Sandwiches

Whole wheat bread or the ordinary Boston brown bread is the most
desirable for these sandwiches. Plunge the lobster into hot water; bring
to boiling point, and simmer gently three-quarters of an hour; remove
the meat, and cut it with a silver knife into dice. Now, sprinkle the
lobster with a little salt, red pepper and a tablespoonful of tarragon
vinegar. Allow it to stand for a few minutes, and then sprinkle over two
or three tablespoonfuls of melted butter. As soon as the butter has
chilled on the lobster, put a goodly layer over a slice of buttered
bread; cover with another slice of bread; press the two together, and
remove the crusts. Remember, there is only one layer of lobster between
two slices of bread.

Lobster Salad Sandwiches

Cut fine the solid portion from one boiled lobster, put it into a bowl,
dust it lightly with salt and pepper and sprinkle over two
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Make a half cupful of mayonnaise from the
yolk of one egg and eight tablespoonfuls of olive oil. Select crisp
lettuce leaves. Mix the mayonnaise with the lobster, put a thin layer
over a slice of buttered bread, cover with a lettuce leaf, put another
thin layer of lobster on top of the lettuce leaf, then a second slice of
buttered bread. Press firmly together, cut off the crusts and cut the
slices into halves long ways, or you may make it into three fingers.

Mutton Sandwiches

Chop a half pound of cold, cooked mutton very fine; add two
tablespoonfuls of cream or olive oil, a tablespoonful of capers, half a
teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper; mix thoroughly.
Butter the slices on the loaf; cut them one-half inch thick, and trim
off the crusts. Spread thickly with the mixture; put at each of the four
corners a mint leaf; put on top another slice of buttered bread, from
which you have trimmed the crust, press the two together, and cut from
corner to corner making four triangles.

These sandwiches may also be flavored with tomato catsup.

Mutton Club Sandwiches

Cut brown bread into rounds or circles with an ordinary cake cutter.
Chop one-half pound of cold, boiled mutton rather fine; add two
tablespoonfuls of olive oil, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a
saltspoonful of paprika. Peel four or five quite solid tomatoes, cut
them into slices and push out the seeds. Put a slice of tomato on top of
a round of bread, fill the space from which you have taken the seeds
with the mutton mixture; put on top another round of buttered bread, and
press the two together. You may, if you like, put on top of the tomato a
lettuce leaf, and in the center of that half a teaspoonful of mayonnaise
dressing. Nice for luncheon on a warm day.

English Mutton Sandwiches

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to make a pint. Add to it two
tablespoonfuls of capers, a half teaspoonful of salt, six tablespoonfuls
of cream or olive oil and a saltspoonful of pepper. Mash carefully and
put between layers of buttered bread; trim the crusts and cut into
triangles.

Spring Lamb Sandwiches

Grind sufficient lamb to make a half pint, putting through the meat
grinder with the lamb the leaves from six stalks of mint. Add a half
teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter or cream, and a
saltspoonful of pepper. Rub this to a paste and spread between toasted
English muffins. Leaves of mint may be put over the top of the lamb
before putting the muffins together.

Turkish Sandwiches

Chop sufficient cold roasted mutton to make a pint; add two solid
tomatoes from a can of tomatoes, or two fresh tomatoes, peeled, the
seeds pressed out and the flesh chopped fine. Add a half cupful of
piñons or pine nuts, and sufficient olive oil to bind the whole
together. Spread this between thin, warm milk or beaten biscuits and
serve for afternoon tea or supper.

Picnic Sandwiches

Take the ordinary French rolls; make a round opening in the top of
each, and then, with your finger, scoop out all the crumb, leaving the
roll in shape with a very small opening on top. Save the little piece of
crust from the top of the opening. Mix together four olives, one
gherkin, a tablespoonful of capers and one large green, sweet pepper,
chopped very fine. Chop fine two ounces of tongue, and mix it with the
white meat of one chicken, chopped fine. Mix together, and moisten with
a well-made mayonnaise dressing. Fill this into the roll, put on the
top, and arrange neatly on a napkin in a wicker basket; serve at once.
The rolls may be prepared and the mixture made some time before serving,
but the two should be put together at the last moment.

Potato Sandwiches

Mash four good-sized boiled potatoes; add a level teaspoonful of salt,
four tablespoonfuls of thick cream, and the yolks of four hard-boiled
eggs rubbed to a smooth paste, a saltspoonful of pepper, two
tablespoonfuls of olive oil; mix thoroughly until you have a perfectly
smooth paste. Put this between slices of brown bread and butter, trim
off the crusts, and cut into triangles. The top may be garnished with
cress or lettuce.

Salad Sandwiches

Chop fine half a pound of cold, cooked chicken; mix with it six
tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing; add half a teaspoonful of salt
and a saltspoonful of pepper; put this between slices of bread and
butter, and cut into fancy shapes.

These sandwiches may also be trimmed with lettuce or cress, and almost
any meat may be substituted for the chicken. If beef is used, a
tablespoonful of tomato catsup may be added; with mutton a tablespoonful
of capers. Beef is much better garnished with cress, mutton with mint,
chicken with lettuce or celery.

Lobsters and crabs may be mixed with mayonnaise and used as a salad
sandwich; garnish of course with lettuce.

Fish Salad Sandwiches

Flake one can of salmon, or an equal quantity of cold boiled fish. Add
to it a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne and one ordinary
cucumber, grated and drained. Just before serving time butter the bread,
cut it into thin slices, put over the top a layer of the flaked fish,
then a thin layer of mayonnaise or sandwich dressing and another
covering of bread. Press together, trim the crusts and cut directly
across the slice, making two long sandwiches about an inch and a half to
two inches wide.

Sardine Salad Sandwiches

These, like salmon sandwiches, are made from materials usually in every
household, and can be made at a moment's notice. Stir four
tablespoonfuls of oil into an egg, add a few drops of vinegar or lemon
juice. Remove the sardines from the oil, take off the tails and heads
and remove the bones. Mash them in a bowl, add a tablespoonful of
vinegar, or the same amount of lemon juice. If you have lettuce or
cress, either shred it, or put one leaf between the fish and the
buttered bread.

Sardine Sandwiches

Cut slices of bread about one-half an inch thick, butter and toast; trim
off the crust. Remove skin and bones from the sardines, lay them
carefully over toast; have ready, chopped very fine, some olives and
capers, mixed together; sprinkle these over the sardines, then a
teaspoonful of lemon juice to each sandwich. Cut into any shape you may
desire and they are ready to serve.

Swiss Sandwiches

Put half a pound of ordinary schmierkase into a bowl, rub it perfectly
smooth; add, a teaspoonful at a time, four tablespoonfuls of thick
cream, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, half a teaspoonful of salt,
and a saltspoonful of pepper. Butter the slices of bread on the loaf;
cut each off about a half inch in thickness, trim off the crusts and
spread with the cheese mixture; put on top a layer of pumpernickel or
rye bread; on top of that another thin layer of cheese, and on top of
that another layer of white bread and butter; press these lightly
together. If the crusts have been trimmed off, cut the slices into three
or four finger shaped sandwiches. They should be the length of the slice
and about one inch wide. These are exceedingly nice garnished with
cress.

In arranging them for serving, put a layer of sandwiches and a layer of
cress all through the basket or dish.

Tongue Sandwiches

Chop cold boiled tongue very fine. To each cupful stir in two
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, dash of red pepper and about one-half
teaspoonful of onion juice. Have bread sufficiently stale to cut nicely.
Remove end crust, butter and cut a very thin slice; remove the crusts.
Spread it with the tongue paste, roll each sandwich carefully, tie with
narrow ribbon and put away until wanted. These can be made several hours
before serving.

Sandwich Dressing

Put four tablespoonfuls of vinegar and three of water into a saucepan
over the fire; add a half teaspoonful of salt and a half saltspoonful of
pepper. Beat the yolks of four eggs until creamy, add slowly to them the
hot mixture. Stir over hot water until it is the consistency of
mayonnaise dressing. Take from the fire and add carefully two level
tablespoonfuls of butter.

Farmer's Sandwiches

Butter each slice on the loaf, slice it off very thin. Remove the
crusts, lay a crisp lettuce leaf on one half the buttered slices, spread
with sandwich dressing and cover with a slice of buttered bread. Press
the two together and cut into triangles. Cress, Romaine, or bleached
chicory may be used in place of lettuce. These are more appetizing than
ordinary bread and butter sandwiches, and are made from materials found
in every household.

Farmer's Egg Sandwiches

Put six eggs into warm water, bring to a boil and keep at boiling point,
without boiling hard, for a half hour. Throw them into cold water,
remove the shells and cut them into slices lengthwise. A very fine wire
is best for cutting eggs. Butter the slices on the loaf, then cut them
off, cover with slices of hard-boiled eggs, dust lightly with salt and
pepper. Spread the eggs carefully with sandwich dressing, put on another
slice of buttered bread, press the two together and cut into triangles.
If you have lettuce or cress put a leaf over the dressing.

Deviled Beef Sandwiches

Chop remains of cold cooked beef very fine. To each pint add one
tablespoonful of tomato catsup, a dash of cayenne, two tablespoonfuls of
melted butter, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a half teaspoonful
of paprika and a tablespoonful of onion juice. Rub to a paste and put
between thin slices of buttered bread, trim off the crusts and cut into
triangles.

Corned Beef Sandwiches

Chop sufficient cold cooked corned beef to make a pint. Add to it a
teaspoonful of horseradish, four tablespoonfuls of melted butter or
olive oil and four or five tablespoonfuls of finely-shredded water
cress. Put this between slices of buttered whole wheat or brown bread;
trim the crusts and cut into triangles.

Plain Corned Beef Sandwiches

Butter an equal quantity of white and whole wheat bread. Cut the cooked
corned beef into very thin slices. Put a slice on a slice of buttered
bread, put on top a teaspoonful of creamed horseradish sauce, spread it
out, cover with cress leaves, or crisp lettuce leaf, put on a slice of
whole wheat bread, press the two together, trim the crusts and cut into
fingers about one inch wide.

To make the creamed horseradish sauce, stir thick, dry whipped cream
into dry horseradish. If the horseradish is in vinegar, press out the
vinegar and then fold in the whipped cream.

Sandwiches à la Stanley

Cut cold beef loaf or roll into very thin slices. Bake three or four
bananas, and make a creamed horseradish sauce according to preceding
recipe. Butter white or whole wheat bread, put on first a slice of meat,
then just a thin layer of the mashed baked banana, then a teaspoonful of
horseradish sauce, and another slice of bread. Press together, trim the
crusts, cut into triangles and serve. These sandwiches should be served
soon after they are made.

English Salt-Beef Sandwiches

Whip a half cupful of cream until it is very stiff. Put four
tablespoonfuls of freshly grated horseradish or horseradish pressed free
from vinegar into a bowl, add the yolk of an egg and a saltspoonful of
salt; mix and fold in the whipped cream. Have ready very thin slices of
cold boiled salt beef. Butter thin slices of bread, put on a layer of
salt beef, then a thin layer of the horseradish sauce and another layer
of buttered bread. Press together, trim the crusts and cut into
triangles.

Sandwiches à la Bernhardt

Chop sufficient very rare cold roasted beef to make a half pint; mix
with it a dash of cayenne, a half teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful
of tomato catsup, a tablespoonful of mango chutney, two shallots, a half
clove of garlic and a tablespoonful of olive oil. Spread this on a thin
slice of buttered brown bread, cover it with leaves of cress, and then
put on another thin slice of buttered white bread. Press the two
together, cut into crescents or triangles.

East Indian Lentil Sandwiches

Take any left-over boiled or stewed lentils and press them through a
sieve. To each half cupful of this mixture add a half cupful of chopped
pecans, a level teaspoonful of curry and a saltspoonful of salt. Spread
thin slices of brown bread with butter, then put over a thick layer of
this mixture and cover with chopped parsley. Cover with another layer of
brown bread, press together, trim the crusts and cut into fingers.

Nut-Butter Sandwiches

Mix one glass of nut butter with two tablespoonfuls of olive oil and one
tablespoonful of chopped pimientos. Spread this on a slice of unbuttered
brown bread, cover with finely-chopped cress or shredded lettuce, place
on top a slice of buttered bread, press the two together, trim the
crusts and cut into fingers an inch wide.

Filipino Sandwiches

Add one grated pineapple to a tumbler of peanut butter, mix thoroughly,
add a tablespoonful of lemon juice, a dash of cayenne, a half
teaspoonful of paprika. Put this between thin slices of brown bread,
buttered; press together and cut into halves.

SWEET SANDWICHES

Under this heading we place all those dainty sandwiches that are made
from thin slices of bread and butter and a jam or fruit filling. They
are usually cut into circles; it is more economical to do this before
the bread is buttered, unless you can cut rounds from one side, and a
crescent above it. Almost any sweet may be used. Serve with chocolate or
coffee according to the fruit, either for an afternoon tea or an
"evening."

Cherry Sandwiches

Chop a quarter of a pound of candied cherries very fine, adding
occasionally as you chop them a few drops of orange juice, if you use
wine, a few drops of sherry. Mix thoroughly and spread over water thins,
making it a little deeper in the center than at the edges. These
sandwiches are better made from crackers than from bread. Arrange neatly
on a pretty glass dish, and they are ready to serve.

Fig Sandwiches

Split a dozen figs and scrape out the soft portion, rejecting the skins;
work this to a paste. Cut the slices of bread from the loaf, buttering
before you cut them; make them quite thin. Remove the crusts, and spread
this thick paste over the bread and roll carefully; press for a moment
until there is no danger of the roll opening; roll each in a piece of
tissue paper; twist the ends as you would an old-fashioned "secret," or
they may be tied with baby ribbon. These are exceedingly wholesome and
palatable.

Fruit and Nut Sandwiches

These are perhaps the most attractive of all the sweet sandwiches.

Put through the meat chopper a quarter of a pound of almonds with half
a pound of washed figs, the same quantity of dates, the same of raisins,
and a pound of pecan nuts; put them through alternately so that they
will be mixed in chopping. Pack the mixture into round baking powder
tins, pressing it down firmly, and stand it aside over night. When
wanted, dip the tin in hot water, loosen it with a knife and shake out
the mixture. With a sharp knife cut into very thin slices and put them
between two rounds of buttered bread. Serve with chocolate.

The combination may be varied; candied cherries, citron or any of the
candied fruits may be substituted for the dates and figs. Brazilian and
pine nuts may be substituted for a portion of the pecans.

Orange Marmalade Sandwiches

These sandwiches may be made precisely the same as fig sandwiches,
substituting the orange marmalade for the figs.

Sponge Cake Sandwiches

Bake a sponge cake in a square loaf; cut it into slices a quarter of an
inch thick; cut the slices into rounds with a small biscuit cutter. With
another small cutter take out the center leaving the ring; put this ring
on top of a solid round making sort of a patty as it were; fill the
spaces with a mixture of chopped candied fruit that has been soaked in
orange juice over night; cover the top with the meringue made from white
of egg and sugar; put them in the oven to brown, dish neatly and they
are ready to use. These cannot stand over an hour as the fruit will
soften the cake.

Fresh Fruit Sandwiches

These sandwiches are exceedingly nice to serve for afternoon teas. They
must be used soon after they are made. They will, however, if wrapped in
a damp napkin, keep for an hour, but as fruit is soft the bread is
liable to become moist, which spoils the sandwich.

Butter the bread and put between layers of sliced strawberries, dusted
with powdered sugar; or raspberries, or large blackberries cut into
halves; or peaches, finely chopped; or apple seasoned with a little
salt, pepper, olive oil and lemon juice; or sliced bananas with a dash
of lemon juice, are all nice.

Raisin Sandwiches

Put one-half pound of seeded raisins through the meat grinder, add a
quarter of a pound of almonds that have been blanched, dried and ground.
Add a half tumbler of quince jelly, mix thoroughly and put between thin
slices of buttered white bread. These sandwiches are very nice in place
of cake for afternoon teas or evening companies.

Afternoon Teas

Stone a quarter of a pound of dates, put them through a meat grinder,
add to them a half tumbler of nut butter, mix until smooth, add four
tablespoonfuls of sweet cream and a tablespoonful of orange juice. Put
this mixture between thin slices of white buttered bread, press
together, trim the crusts and cut into fingers or four small triangles.

Nut and Apple Sandwiches

Put a half cupful of _thick_ stewed apples into a bowl, add the grated
yellow rind of quarter of an orange and one cupful of finely chopped
mixed nuts. Spread this on saltines, Uneedas, or any crisp cracker. Put
on top another cracker and serve at once. These are very nice for
children's parties. Of course one may use buttered bread, either white
or brown.

Grape Fruit Sandwiches

Spread any crisp cracker with a thin layer of grape fruit marmalade, put
on top another cracker and serve at once.

Ginger Sandwiches

Put four or five pieces of ginger through your meat chopper. Stir this
paste into a half cupful of orange marmalade. Put between slices of
buttered bread, press them together, trim the crusts and cut into
fingers. These are nice for afternoon teas. Ginger and carrot marmalade
are also very nice.

CANAPÉS

These are slices of bread cut into fancy shapes, toasted or quickly
fried in hot oil, or they may be spread with butter and browned in a
quick oven. One slice only is used for each canapé. The mixture is
spread on top, the top garnished, and the canapé used at once.

Anchovy Canapés

Cover a round or square of toast with anchovies that have been mashed
and seasoned with a little tomato catsup. Put a little chopped celery
around the edge as a garnish and send at once to the table.

Caviar Canapés

Season the caviar with onion and a very little lemon juice; spread over
a round or square canapé, put chopped onion around the edge, garnish the
top with a hard-boiled egg; place on paper mats and send at once to the
table. These are used as first course at lunch or dinner.

Swedish Canapés

Cut thick slices of whole wheat or Graham bread, trim the crusts and
hollow out the centers, being careful not to make a hole all the way
through. Pound or mash the hard boiled yolks of three eggs with a
tablespoonful of anchovy paste or two anchovies, two tablespoonfuls of
butter and a dash of lemon juice. Cut a dill pickle lengthwise into
slices an eighth of an inch thick, then cut these slices into long
strips a half inch wide. Cut large pickled beets into strips of the same
width. Cut a dozen pimolas into halves. Butter the bread, fill with the
paste, put over the strips of dill pickle, leaving one inch between each
strip. Cross these with strips of pickled beets, put half of a pimola
into each square. Dish on paper mats. Serve as an appetizer before soup.

Chopped Tongue Canapés

Chop cold, cooked tongue very fine; season it with two tablespoonfuls
of olive oil and a dusting of pepper; spread it over the top of a round
of toasted bread; garnish the edge with the small leaves of cress, put a
little grated hard-boiled egg in the center and send at once to the
table.

Sardine Canapés

Remove the skin and pound the sardines to a paste; put a thick layer of
this paste over the top of a round of toasted bread. Cut one gherkin
into very thin slices, arrange them overlapping around the edge; put a
little finely chopped hard-boiled egg in the center, and they are ready
to serve.

Fish Canapés

Pound a quarter of a pound of cooked fish to a paste; season it with a
few drops of onion juice, a saltspoonful of salt, and a dash of black
pepper. Stir into it two tablespoonfuls of sauce tartare; spread this on
six or eight rounds of buttered bread browned in the oven; garnish the
tops with grated cucumber and send to the table.

Deviled Oyster Canapés

Cut slices of bread into squares, toast and remove the crusts. Remove
the hard part from a pint of pickled oysters, place oysters over bread,
close together and in rotation, dust thickly with red pepper; put over
as a thin covering a highly seasoned sauce mayonnaise, and serve. Do not
put over a second piece of bread.

Pâté de Foie Gras Canapés

For twenty-four sandwiches take one tureen of foie gras. Remove the
fat, and mash the foie gras to a perfectly smooth paste, adding
gradually four tablespoonfuls of soft, not melted, butter; add a dash of
cayenne and a half teaspoonful of salt and about ten drops of onion
juice, and press the whole through a sieve. Cut slices of bread into
fancy shapes and toast; crescents are very pretty. Cover each slice
thickly with this paste; garnish with hard-boiled white of egg, cut into
diamonds or tiny crescents, and olives cut into rings. Arrange neatly,
and they are ready to serve.

Hot Canapés

A canapé is the half of a sandwich, as it were. Minced meats of various
kinds are served on one slice of bread. In many books they are called
"uncovered sandwiches." The cold canapés are placed always among the
appetizers and served before the soup. They are made of such materials
as caviar, sardines, anchovies, pickled oysters, pickled lobster,
deviled shrimps, or a mixture of one or two of these materials.

A hot canapé, however, is served in the place of fish or as an entrée.
If they are dressed with either fish or shell-fish they will take the
place of that course. When made from chicken, sweetbreads or game,
should be served as an entrée, following the fish.

Fish Canapés

Pick apart sufficient cold cooked fish to make a half pint. Rub
together two level tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour, add a half
pint of milk, stir until boiling, add a half teaspoonful of salt, a
teaspoonful of soy, a dash of red pepper and a half saltspoonful of
black pepper. When this is hot add the fish and four or five nice sliced
mushrooms; stand over hot water, without stirring, until the fish is
thoroughly heated. While this is heating, trim the crusts from six
slices of bread; toast the one side carefully. Have ready in your pastry
bag with a star tube a pint of light mashed potatoes; press in a
rope-like form, or in small rosettes, around the edge of the bread on
the untoasted side. Brush the bread with a little melted butter, put
them in the oven until the potatoes and bread are a golden brown. Dish
these on square paper mats on individual plates, fill the centers with
the creamed fish and send at once to the table.

Canned salmon may be used in the place of fresh boiled fish.

Lobster Canapés

  1 three-pound lobster
    The yolks of two eggs
  2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
  2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  ½ pint of milk
  1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley
  1 level teaspoonful of salt
  1 saltspoonful of white pepper
  1 pint of mashed potatoes
  6 slices of bread

Toast the bread and arrange the potatoes according to the preceding
recipe. Rub the butter and flour together, add the milk; when boiling
add the seasoning and the lobster. When very hot stir in carefully the
well-beaten yolks of the eggs. Stir this until it is smoking hot, but be
careful not to boil, or it will curdle. Fill this on top of the toast
that has been garnished with potatoes, dust with chopped parsley and
send to the table.

Shrimps may be substituted for lobster.

Sweetbread Canapés

  1 pair calf's sweetbreads
  ½ can of mushrooms
  2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
  2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  ½ pint of milk
  ½ teaspoonful of salt
  1 saltspoonful of pepper

Boil the sweetbreads carefully for three-quarters of an hour; throw
them into cold water; pick them apart, rejecting the membrane. Chop the
mushrooms very fine, add them to the sweetbreads. Rub the butter and
flour together, add the milk; when boiling add the salt, pepper,
sweetbreads and mushrooms; cover and stand over hot water ten to fifteen
minutes. Serve them on slices of bread, garnished with mashed potatoes
pressed through a star tube.

Canapés à la Trinidad

    Half the white meat from one boiled chicken
  1 pair of sweetbreads
  6 large fresh mushrooms
  2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
  2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  ½ pint of milk
  2 yolks of hard-boiled eggs
  1 level teaspoonful of salt
  1 saltspoonful of pepper

Cut twelve slices of bread; trim the crusts so the slices will be of
even size. Cut out the centers from one-half the slices, leaving a wall
of one inch. Toast the solid slices. Brush the untoasted edge of the
bread with a little white of egg, lay on the rims and put them in the
oven to toast on the upper side. Pick the sweetbreads apart, after they
are carefully cooked, rejecting the membrane. Slice the mushrooms. Cut
the chicken into dice. Put the butter into a saucepan, add the
mushrooms, toss for a minute until the mushrooms are slightly softened,
then add the flour, mix, and add the milk, salt and pepper. Cover this
on the back part of the stove for ten or fifteen minutes until the
mushrooms are cooked; then add the meat. Stand this over hot water ten
or fifteen minutes. The toast should now be done and crisp. Arrange each
canapé on a square of lace paper on an individual heated dish, put the
mixture in the center, garnish with the yolk of the eggs pressed through
a sieve. Garnish the very top with a little chopped truffle or a little
chopped parsley. These are the handsomest of all hot canapés, and while
they are usually served following the soup at dinner, they may be used
for the main course at a ladies' luncheon, or at a supper.

Game Canapés

Cut any pieces of left-over game into dice. Put two tablespoonfuls of
butter and two of flour in a saucepan, add a half pint of stock. When
boiling add a half can of very fine mushrooms, a tablespoonful of
chopped ham, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a level teaspoonful of
salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Bring this to a boil, add the game;
stand over hot water for fifteen or twenty minutes until the game has
absorbed part of the sauce, then add two tablespoonfuls of sherry or
Madeira, and fill into the square canapés made the same as in preceding
recipe.

Lamb Canapés

  2 cans, or one quart of cooked peas
  1 blade of mace
  2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
  2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  ½ pint of stock
  1 teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet
  ½ teaspoonful of salt
  1 tablespoonful of chopped onion
  2 tablespoonfuls of claret
  1 saltspoonful of pepper

Put the butter and onion in a saucepan, shake it over the fire, then
add the cold boiled lamb, cut into blocks; you should have one pint.
When this is boiling add all the seasoning and stand the mixture over
hot water on the back of the stove while you make the canapés. Press the
peas through a sieve; the pulp must be quite dry; add to it a palatable
seasoning of salt and pepper and one or two tablespoonfuls of melted
butter. Put these in a pastry bag. Toast the bread on one side, put the
peas around in rope-like form, or roses, on the untoasted side, making a
border sufficiently high to hold the lamb. Stand in the oven until the
bread is carefully toasted. Arrange them on lace papers on heated
plates, fill the center with the lamb mixture and send to the table.

Club-House Sandwiches

Club-house sandwiches may be made in a number of different ways, but are
served warm as a rule on bread carefully toasted at the last moment. Put
on top of a square of toasted bread a thin layer of broiled ham or
bacon; on top of this a thin slice of Holland pickle, on top of that a
thin slice of cold roasted chicken or turkey, then a leaf of lettuce in
the center of which you put a teaspoonful of mayonnaise dressing; cover
this with another slice of buttered toast. Press the two together, and
cut from one corner to another making two large triangles, and send at
once to the table.

People not using ham may make a palatable sandwich by putting down
first a layer of cold boiled tongue, then a layer of Holland cucumber, a
layer of turkey or chicken, another layer of cucumber and the slice of
toast. Garnish with little pieces of water cress before putting on the
last slice.

SCENTED SANDWICHES

There is a group of rather æsthetic sandwiches made from thin slices of
bread and butter flavored or scented with flowers. Among those in common
use are clover, rose and the nasturtium.

The crust is trimmed off from the outside of the loaf; the loaf placed
down in a clean stone jar in a nest of clover blossoms; the butter is
put in a piece of cheese cloth and also covered with clover, and the jar
covered over night. The next morning the bread and butter will have the
flavor of clover.

Rose Sandwiches

In making rose sandwiches cover the bread and butter with rose leaves
over night. Put a few rose petals between the slices when making the
sandwiches.

Nasturtium Sandwiches

Cover the bread and butter with nasturtium flowers over night. In making
the sandwiches place at each corner of the slice a flower, so that in
cutting from corner to corner you have a little triangular sandwich
holding a nasturtium flower uncut.

Violet Sandwiches

These are made the same, covering the slice of bread and butter with
the petals of the violet.

ADDITIONAL RECIPES

INDEX

  Afternoon Teas, 61

  Anchovy Canapés, 63
          and Egg Sandwiches, 14
          Sandwiches, 13

  Beef, Corned, Sandwiches, 53
        Deviled, Sandwiches, 52
        English Salt, Sandwiches, 54
        Plain Corned, Sandwiches, 53

  Bread, 9
         German Potato, 11
         Nineteenth Century, 12
         Nut, 13
         White, 12

  Cake, Sponge, Sandwiches, 59

  Camembert Sandwiches, 28

  Canapés, 63
           à la Trinidad, 71
           Anchovy, 63
           Caviar, 63
           Chopped Tongue, 64
           Deviled Oyster, 66
           Fish, 65, 67
           Game, 72
           Hot, 67
           Lamb, 73
           Lobster, 69
           Pâté de Foie Gras, 66
           Sardine, 65
           Swedish, 64
           Sweetbread, 70

  Caviar Canapés, 63
         Sandwiches, No. 1, 15
                     No. 2, 15

  Celery Sandwiches, 16
         Salad Sandwiches, 16

  Cheese, Cottage, Sandwiches, 29
          Deviled, Sandwiches, 28
          Sandwiches, No. 1, 23
                      No. 2, 23
                      No. 3, 24
                      Workman's, 24

  Cherry Sandwiches, 57

  Chicken and Almond Sandwiches, 19
              Lettuce Sandwiches, à la Kendall, 19
          Cream of, Sandwiches, 34
          Curried, Sandwiches, 33
          French, Sandwiches, 39
          Rolled, Sandwiches, 17

  Chopped Tongue Canapés, 64

  Club-House Sandwiches, 74

  Club, Mutton, Sandwiches, 44

  Cold Beef Sandwiches, 14

  Corned Beef Sandwiches, 53

  Cottage Cheese Sandwiches, 29

  Crab Sandwiches, 33

  Cream of Chicken Sandwiches, 34

  Creole Sandwiches, 26

  Cucumber Sandwiches, 30

  Curried Chicken Sandwiches, 33
          Egg Sandwiches, 32
          Oyster Sandwiches, 31
          Sardine Sandwiches, 32

  Curry Sandwiches, 27

  Deviled Beef Sandwiches, 52
          Cheese Sandwiches, 28
          Oyster Canapés, 66
          Sandwiches, 35

  Dressing, Sandwich, 51

  East Indian Lentil Sandwiches, 55

  Egg, Curried, Sandwiches, 32
       Farmer's, Sandwiches, 52
       Sandwiches, No. 1, 35
                   No. 2, 36

  English Mutton Sandwiches, 45
          Salt-Beef Sandwiches, 54

  Farmer's Egg Sandwiches, 52
           Sandwiches, 51

  Fig Sandwiches, 58

  Filipino Sandwiches, 56

  Fish Canapés, 65, 67
       Salad Sandwiches, 48
       Sandwiches, 36

  Flaked Fish Sandwiches, 36

  French Chicken Sandwiches, 39

  Fresh Fruit Sandwiches, 60

  Fruit and Nut Sandwiches, 58
        Fresh, Sandwiches, 60
        Grape, Sandwiches, 62

  Game Canapés, 72
       Sandwiches, 39

  German Sandwiches, 25, 40
         Potato Bread, 11

  Ginger Sandwiches, 62

  Grape Fruit Sandwiches, 62

  Ham Sandwiches, 40

  Honolulu Sandwiches, 25

  Hot Canapés, 67

  Indian Sandwiches, 41

  Lamb Canapés, 73
       Spring, Sandwiches, 45

  Lentil, East Indian, Sandwiches, 55

  Lettuce Sandwiches, 41

  Lobster Canapés, 69
          Salad Sandwiches, 43
          Sandwiches, 42

  Marmalade, Orange, Sandwiches, 59

  Mutton, English, Sandwiches, 45
          Club Sandwiches, 44
          Sandwiches, 43

  My Favorite, 26

  Nasturtium Sandwiches, 76

  Nineteenth Century Bread, 12

  Nut and Apple Sandwiches, 61
      Bread, 13
      Butter Sandwiches, 56

  Orange Marmalade Sandwiches, 59

  Oyster, Curried, Sandwiches, 31
          Deviled, Canapés, 66

  Pâté de Foie Gras Canapés, 66

  Picnic Sandwiches, 46

  Plain Corned Beef Sandwiches, 53

  Potato Sandwiches, 47

  Princess Sandwiches, 20

  Raisin Sandwiches, 60

  Rolled Bread and Butter Sandwiches, 17
         Chicken Sandwiches, 17

  Roquefort Sandwiches, 28

  Rose Sandwiches, 75

  Salad, Celery, Sandwiches, 16
         Fish, Sandwiches, 48
         Lobster, Sandwiches, 43
         Sandwiches, 47
         Sardine, Sandwiches, 48

  Salmon Sandwiches, 37

  Salt, Cucumber Sandwiches, 29

  Sandwich Dressing, 51

  Sandwiches, 7
              à la Bernhardt, 55
                   Rorer, 18
                   Stanley, 54
              Anchovy, 13
                       and Egg, 14
              Camembert, 28
              Caviar, No. 1, 15
                      No. 2, 15
              Celery, 16
                      Salad, 16
              Cheese, No. 1, 23
                      No. 2, 23
                      No. 3, 24
              Chicken and Almond, 19
                          Lettuce, à la Kendall, 19
              Club-House, 74
              Cold Beef, 14
              Corned Beef, 53
              Cottage Cheese, 29
              Crab, 33
              Cream of Chicken, 34
              Creole, 26
              Cucumber, 30
              Curried Chicken, 33
                      Egg, 32
                      Oyster, 31
                      Sardine, 32
              Curry, 27
              Deviled, 35
                       Beef, 52
                       Cheese, 28
              East Indian Lentil, 55
              Egg, No. 1, 35
                   No. 2, 36
              English Mutton, 45
                      Salt-Beef, 54
              Farmer's, 51
                        Egg, 52
              Filipino, 56
              Fish, 36
                    Salad, 48
              Flaked Fish, 36
              French Chicken, 39
              Game, 39
              German, 25, 40
              Ham, 40
              Honolulu, 25
              Indian, 41
              Lettuce, 41
              Lobster, 42
                       Salad, 43
              Mutton, 43
                      Club, 44
              My Favorite, 26
              Nut-Butter, 56
              Picnic, 46
              Plain Corned Beef, 53
              Potato, 47
              Princess, 20
              Rolled Bread and Butter, 17
                     Chicken, 17
              Roquefort, 28
              Salad, 47
              Salmon, 37
              Salt-Cucumber, 29
              Sardine, 49
                       Salad, 48
              Scented, 75
              Spanish, 37
              Spring Lamb, 45
              Swedish, 38
              Sweet, 57
              Swiss, 49
              Tea Biscuit, 21
              To Keep, 9
              Tongue, 50
              Turkish, 45
              Windsor, 20
              Workman's Cheese, 24

  Sardine Canapés, 65
          Curried, Sandwiches, 32
          Salad Sandwiches, 48
          Sandwiches, 49

  Scented Sandwiches, 75
          Nasturtium, 76
          Rose, 75
          Violet, 76

  Spanish Sandwiches, 37

  Sponge Cake Sandwiches, 59

  Spring Lamb Sandwiches, 45

  Swedish Canapés, 64
          Sandwiches, 38

  Sweetbread Canapés, 70

  Sweet Sandwiches, 57
        Afternoon Teas, 61
        Cherry, 57
        Fig, 58
        Fresh Fruit, 60
        Fruit and Nut, 58
        Ginger, 62
        Grape Fruit, 62
        Nut and Apple, 61
        Orange Marmalade, 59
        Raisin, 60
        Sponge Cake, 59

  Swiss Sandwiches, 49

  Tea Biscuit Sandwiches, 21

  To Keep Sandwiches, 9

  Tongue, Chopped, Canapés, 64
          Sandwiches, 50

  Turkish Sandwiches, 45

  Violet Sandwiches, 76

  White Bread, 12

  Windsor Sandwiches, 20

  Workman's Cheese Sandwiches, 24

  Yeast, 10

SOME OTHER BOOKS

Published by

Arnold and Company

=Mrs. Rorer's NEW Cook Book=

A big book of 731 pages, abundantly illustrated. Its bigness is no
criterion of its goodness. The fact that it is the best work of the best
years of Mrs. Rorer's life; that it is a complete new book telling of
the things one needs to know about cooking, living, health, and the
easiest and best way of housekeeping--these are what make for goodness,
and place this book far in advance of any other of a like nature.

The New Cook Book covers all departments of cookery. A masterly
exposition of each subject is given, followed by recipes for the proper
preparation, cooking and serving of the various kinds of foods. There
are over 1500 recipes in the book.

The illustrations are an important feature. One set of pictures shows
the proper dressing of the table during a course dinner. Then there is a
complete set showing the method of carving meats, poultry, game, etc.;
and many others illustrating special features of the book.

Large 12mo, 731 pages, profusely and beautifully illustrated; bound in
cloth, $2.00 net; by mail, $2.20

=Mrs. Rorer's Philadelphia Cook Book=

This is the standard book of Mrs. Rorer's that has been before the
public for a number of years. It has no connection with Mrs. Rorer's New
Cook Book. Each book is independent of the other, and the possession of
one forms no reason for doing without the other.

The Philadelphia Cook Book is full of good things, and, like all of Mrs.
Rorer's works, is eminently practical. It is a standard of excellence,
in that it is full of the brightest things in cookery; the recipes are
absolutely reliable, and the general instructions to housekeepers of the
most helpful and necessary character.

Nearly all cook books assume some knowledge and experience on the part
of those who use them, but Mrs. Rorer makes her explanations so clear,
and gives such definite directions, as to quantities, that the beginner
has no difficulty in successfully accomplishing all the book calls for.
Then there are frequent hints as to the proper use of left-overs, how to
market, and, in many ways, information is given that is alike useful to
the experienced cook as to the tyro in matters culinary.

The book is full of choice recipes, every one of which has been
successfully tested by Mrs. Rorer and found to come out right. This
alone is of incalculable benefit and ought to commend the book to the
favorable consideration of every housekeeper.

The use of this book in the home means better health, better living,
economy in the use of food, and a consequent saving in dollars and
cents.

12mo, nearly 600 pages, with portrait of author; bound in cloth, $1.00
net; by mail, $1.15

=Mrs. Rorer's Vegetable Cookery and Meat Substitutes=

This book has a twofold object:

  1. To show the value of vegetables in their relation to diet and
  health, how to prepare, cook and serve them, what to eat under certain
  conditions of health, and thus have them perform their proper work.

  2. To give to the prudent housewife a knowledge of combinations of
  foods in the shape of toothsome recipes to take the place of meat, or
  as we call them--Meat Substitutes.

It goes without saying that we all know too little about the value of
vegetables as food. We eat them because they are palatable, not
realizing their immense importance as body builders. Here they are
classified, and thus made to give us a right idea of their use.

Then as to Meat Substitutes. It is not necessary to be a vegetarian to
desire a change from a meat diet. There are health reasons often
demanding abstention from meats; or economy may be an impelling motive;
or a desire for change and variety in the daily bill of fare may be
warrant enough. However we look at it here is the wonder book to point
the way to better and healthier living.

There is an abundance of the choicest and most palatable recipes, and
they are given in such a manner, that if the directions are followed,
the results are sure. You cannot make mistakes.

12mo, cloth, $1.50 net; by mail, $1.65

=Mrs. Rorer's Every Day Menu Book=

In the course of her teaching and editorial work, there have come to
Mrs. Rorer frequent requests for a book that will provide a daily bill
of fare, one that will be at once rational, its directions easy of
accomplishment, and give an excellent variety. Hence this Menu Book.

It contains a menu for every meal in the year, systematically arranged
by months and days; menus for special occasions, such as holidays,
weddings, luncheons, teas, etc.; illustrations of decorated tables for
various social events, with appropriate menus; menus arranged for the
seasons both as to food and decorations; a department of menus without
meats. A fine volume that ought to commend itself to every housekeeper.

12mo, 300 pages, handsomely illustrated; bound in cloth $1.50 net; by
mail, $1.65

=Mrs. Rorer's Cakes, Icings and Fillings=

Every one is interested in the cake problem. There is possibly no item
in the home bill of fare on which a woman prides herself as the ability
to make a good cake. But how to add variety to the goodness? Here's the
book to help. Contains a large number of enticing and valuable recipes
for cakes of all sorts and conditions. Some need filling, some need
icing--well, here you have all the necessary information. Best of all,
there is no fear as to results. Follow the directions and your cake is
bound to come out right.

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents

=Mrs. Rorer's Canning and Preserving=

The only book on the subject worth the name. In it Mrs. Rorer discusses
at length the canning and preserving of fruits and vegetables, with the
kindred subjects of marmalades, butters, fruit jellies and syrups,
drying and pickling. The recipes are clearly and simply given. In the
new edition now presented, the author has brought the book up to date,
and has included many new, rare and original recipes that have been
accumulating since the book was first introduced. It has always been a
favorite book with the public, and now it will be doubly welcome.

New Edition: revised and rewritten, with the addition of much new matter

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents

=Mrs. Rorer's My Best 250 Recipes=

It would be strange indeed if, out of the multitude of recipes Mrs.
Rorer has invented and used during her long career as a teacher, writer
and lecturer, she did not have some that appealed to her more strongly
than others. She has gathered these together, classifying them under
their different heads. There are Best 20 Soups; Best 20 Fish Recipes;
Best 20 Meats; Best 20 Salads; Best 20 Desserts; Best 20 Sauces,
Vegetables, Fruit Preserves, Luncheon Dishes, Ices, Summer Recipes, Left
Overs, Game and Poultry, Breads and Biscuits, etc.

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents

=Mrs. Rorer's New Salads=

For Dinners, Luncheons, Suppers and Receptions. With a group of ODD
SALADS and some CEYLON SALADS.

A salad made from a succulent green vegetable and French dressing,
should be seen on the dinner table in every well-regulated household
three hundred and sixty-five times a year. These green vegetables
contain the salts necessary to the well being of our blood; the oil is
an easily-digested form of fatty matter; the lemon juice gives us
sufficient acid; therefore simple salads are exceedingly wholesome.

During the summer, the dinner salad may be composed of any well-cooked
green vegetable, served with a French dressing; string beans,
cauliflower, a mixture of peas, turnips, carrots and new beets, boiled
radishes, cucumbers, tomatoes, uncooked cabbage, and cooked spinach. In
the winter serve celery, lettuce, endive and chicory.

New Edition: revised and rewritten, with the addition of much new matter

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents

=Mrs. Rorer's Dainties=

Possibly no part of the daily bill of fare so taxes the ingenuity of the
housewife as the dessert, that final touch to the meal that lingers in
the palate like a benediction. We tire of constant repetitions of
familiar things. We want variety. Why not have it when there are so many
ways and means of gratifying our tastes. Mrs. Rorer has given here a
number of choice things covering quite a range of possibilities.

New Edition: revised and rewritten, with the addition of much new matter

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents

=Mrs. Rorer's Many Ways for Cooking Eggs=

Did you ever reflect what an important part eggs play in our domestic
economy? When from any reason other things fail, the perplexed housewife
knows she can do something to tide over her difficulties by the use of
eggs. But how many know the great possibilities that lie in an egg--the
very many ways of cooking and preparing them for the table? To many,
boiled, fried, poached and scrambled form the limit of their knowledge.
But get this book and you'll be surprised at the feast in store for you.
You'll also find recipes for delectable Egg Sauces.

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents

=Mrs. Rorer's Made-Over Dishes=

How to transform the left overs into palatable and wholesome dishes.
With many new and valuable recipes.

We quote from the author's introduction:

"Economical marketing does not mean the purchase of inferior articles at
a cheap price, but of a small quantity of the best materials found in
the market; these materials to be wisely and economically used. Small
quantity and no waste, just enough and not a piece too much, is a good
rule to remember. In roasts and steaks, however, there will be, in spite
of careful buying, bits left over, that if economically used, may be
converted into palatable, sightly and wholesome dishes for the next
day's lunch or supper."

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents

=Mrs. Rorer's Sandwiches=

Of all the useful and dependable articles of food, commend us to the
Sandwich. Nothing in the whole range of foods presents such a wonderful
opportunity for variety. The sandwich is the handy thing for suppers,
teas, social calls, school lunch baskets, picnics--but where can you not
use it to advantage and enjoyment? In this book Mrs. Rorer has given a
lot of new, original recipes, with some very odd ones. She has drawn
upon her wonderful knowledge and inventive faculty and the result is a
bewildering array of delectable sandwiches.

New Edition: revised and rewritten, with the addition of much new matter

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents

=Mrs. Rorer's How to Use a Chafing Dish=

It is wonderful the amount of pleasure and satisfaction that can be had
with a Chafing Dish. Few people know how to use one successfully,
although the art is easily acquired. This book, for instance, gives the
proper directions for making hosts of good things, and if they are
followed implicitly, the most inexperienced person can be sure of
results. It is a handy thing in an emergency, and it forms a delightful
adjunct to a supper or dinner. Guests are always interested in watching
the evolution of some delectable dish, and the head of the table has a
chance to show his or her skill.

New Edition: revised and rewritten, with the addition of much new matter

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents

=Mrs. Rorer's Hot Weather Dishes=

Its name tells the whole story. It is the only book of the kind
published. Hot weather seems to suspend the inventive faculty of even
the best housekeepers, and at a season when the appetite needs every
help and encouragement, this book will be found of the greatest use.

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents

=Mrs. Rorer's Home Candy Making=

A veritable book of sweets, full of choice recipes, with complete
instructions for making the many delicacies that delight both young and
old. It is the result of careful practice in teaching beginners how to
make attractive and wholesome varieties of home-made candies. The
excellence of the recipes consists in their simplicity and faithfulness
to details.

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents

=Mrs. Rorer's Bread and Bread-Making=

The object of this book is two-fold. First, to give in a concise and
easily-managed form a set of recipes used in every household every day.
Secondly, to point out the reasons why failures so often occur, even
with perfect recipes, and how to guard against them.

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents

=Mrs. Rorer's Quick Soups= =New Ways for Oysters=

These two books were written in response to requests for information on
the subjects. Designed to meet the special wants of a numerous class of
housekeepers who are given to entertaining, and are so often at loss to
know what and how to prepare for their guests. The housekeeper will find
them very handy.

24mo, cloth, 25 cents net; by mail, 30 cents

=Household Accounts=

A simple method of recording the daily expenses of the family. The book
contains ruled pages, systematically and simply divided into spaces in
which are kept the purchases for each day of milk, butter, eggs, meat,
groceries, vegetables, etc. The daily expenses total up for the months,
and the months for the year. There are other forms for recording
expenses of help, light, heat and general household expenditures in
table and bed linens, china and kitchen utensils, etc.

Manilla boards, 25 cents net; by mail 30 cents

=Cakes, Cake Decorations and Desserts=

By CHARLES H. KING. The author tells his methods in his own practical
way, and gives abundant recipes. The book is illustrated by engravings
of numerous decorated pieces, and has a silhouette chart.

12mo, cloth, $1.00 net; by mail, $1.15

[ Transcriber's Note:

  The following is a list of corrections made to the original. The first
  line is the original line, the second the corrected one.

      Pâté de Foi Gras Canapés               66
      Pâté de Foie Gras Canapés               66

             Sweetbread, 69
             Sweetbread, 70

    Game Canapes, 72
    Game Canapés, 72

    Lamb Canapes, 73
    Lamb Canapés, 73

    Ninenteenth Century Bread, 12
    Nineteenth Century Bread, 12

    Pate de Foie Gras Canapes, 66
    Pâté de Foie Gras Canapés, 66

  day's lunch or supper.
  day's lunch or supper."

  =Mrs. Rorer's How to Use a Chafing Dish=
  =Mrs. Rorer's Sandwiches=

  =Mrs. Rorer's Sandwiches=
  =Mrs. Rorer's How to Use a Chafing Dish=

  them very handy
  them very handy.

  of numerous decorated pieces, and has a silhouette chart
  of numerous decorated pieces, and has a silhouette chart.
]

OTHER BOOKS

  BY MRS S T RORER

  MRS RORER'S COOK BOOK
    nearly 600 pages of the choicest recipes in every department of
    cookery; bound in washable oil-cloth covers, $1.75

  CANNING AND PRESERVING
    paper covers, 40 cents; cloth, 75 cents

  HOT WEATHER DISHES
    paper covers, 40 cents; cloth, 75 cents

  HOME CANDY MAKING
    paper covers, 40 cents; cloth, 75 cents

  TWENTY QUICK SOUPS
  FIFTEEN NEW WAYS FOR OYSTERS
  HOW TO USE A CHAFING DISH
  COLONIAL RECIPES
  SANDWICHES
  DAINTIES
    Each of the above six volumes is bound in a different colored linen
    cloth, beautifully stamped in colors; price 25 cents each

  ARNOLD AND COMPANY Publishers
  PHILADELPHIA

  TWENTY QUICK SOUPS

  TWENTY
  QUICK SOUPS

  BY MRS S T RORER

  PHILADELPHIA
  ARNOLD AND COMPANY

  Copyright 1894 by Mrs S T Rorer

  Printed by
  George H Buchanan and Company
  Philadelphia

CONTENTS

                           PAGE

Cream of Asparagus            9

Cream of Corn                10

Cream of Lettuce             11

Cream of Beets               12

Tomato Soup                  13

Clear Tomato with Sago       14

Brown Broth                  15

Cheese Balls                 16

Bisque of Clam               17

Club Clam Soup               18

Mock Oyster Soup             19

Cucumber Tapioca Soup        21

Quick Clear Soup             22

A la Royal                   24

Bisque of Salmon             25

Currant Soup                 26

Chocolate Soup               28

Cream of Chestnut Soup       29

Pistachio Soup               30

Ye Food for ye Gods          31

Oatmeal Soup                 32

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS

Wash one bundle of asparagus, cut off the tips and throw them into a
pint of boiling water, add a teaspoonful of salt, and simmer gently for
fifteen minutes. Strain them and save the water; to this water add the
remaining part of the bundle, cut into small pieces. Cook fifteen
minutes and press through a colander. Put one quart of milk into a
double boiler; rub together two tablespoonfuls of butter and two
tablespoonfuls of flour. Add a little of the hot milk to this and work
until perfectly smooth, then stir into the milk and cook five minutes.
Heat the asparagus mixture, turn the milk quickly into it, season, add
the asparagus tips, and serve. This cannot be boiled or it will curdle.

CREAM OF CORN

Score each row of grains on six ears of corn; then, with the back of
the knife press it out carefully and throw the cobs into a kettle; cover
with a quart of water, bring to boiling point and strain. Now, add the
scraped corn to the water. Rub together two tablespoonfuls of butter and
one of flour. Stir it into this corn mixture and bring to boiling point,
then add one pint of hot milk; season and serve.

CREAM OF LETTUCE

Wash and pull apart two good-sized heads of lettuce. Throw them into a
hot saucepan, shake over the fire until the lettuce leaves simply melt.
Sprinkle over a teaspoonful of salt, then press through a sieve. Put one
quart of milk in a double boiler. Rub together two tablespoonfuls of
butter and two of flour, add it to the milk and stir until it thickens.
Chop sufficient parsley to make two tablespoonfuls and pound it in a
mortar. Put this in a bowl; mix it with the lettuce that has been
pressed through the sieve. Stir in the milk, then add a half teaspoonful
of beef extract, dissolved in a little of the hot milk; season and
serve.

CREAM OF BEETS

Take four cold, boiled beets and grate them. Dissolve a teaspoonful of
beef extract in one pint of boiling water. Add it to the beets, and when
they reach the boiling point add one pint of hot milk; stir in a
tablespoonful of butter, palatable seasoning of salt, and when it
reaches the boiling point, add tablespoonful of arrow-root dissolved in
two tablespoonfuls of cold water. Bring to boiling point again, and
serve.

TOMATO SOUP

Cut six large tomatoes into small pieces. Put them into a saucepan with
one pint of water, or stock, add tablespoonful of butter, slice of
onion, bay leaf and a sprig of parsley. Cook slowly twenty minutes and
press through a sieve sufficiently fine to remove the seeds. Return this
soup to the fire, add tablespoonful of arrow root moistened in two
tablespoonfuls of cold water, another tablespoonful of butter and a
palatable seasoning of salt and pepper, and serve with squares of
toasted bread.

CLEAR TOMATO WITH SAGO

Put one pint of stewed tomatoe into a saucepan, add slice of onions, bay
leaf and sprig of parsley. Simmer ten minutes. Cover four tablespoonfuls
of pearl sago with a pint of cold water and soak for twenty minutes.
Now, stand this over the back part of the stove until the sago is
perfectly clear, and the water almost boiling hot. Add to the tomatoes
one pint of boiling water and two tablespoonfuls of butter, then press
through a sieve. Return to the fire, add a teaspoonful of salt, half
teaspoonful of pepper and then the sago. Serve at once. This soup may be
varied by adding, instead of the pint of water to the tomatoes, a pint
of stock.

BROWN BROTH

Boil and cut into dice one young carrot, one onion and one potato. Put
two ounces of butter in the frying-pan, throw in the vegetables and stir
carefully until they are a golden brown. Then skim them out and put them
in a saucepan. Cover with one quart of boiling water, add a bay leaf and
simmer gently twenty minutes. Press through a puree sieve, return these
to the kettle, add a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet and palatable
seasoning of salt and pepper. Serve with cheese balls.

CHEESE BALLS

Put a tablespoonful of butter and a quarter of a cup of water over the
fire to boil. Stir in quickly a quarter of a cup of flour and stir for a
minute. Take from the fire and add one well-beaten egg and two
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Drop this mixture into a greased baking
pan, and bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. The paste should not be
larger than a good sized bean as you drop it on the pan. A very good way
to make them is to put this mixture in a pastry bag and press it through
a plain tube, and cut it off into small balls.

BISQUE OF CLAM

Drain fifty small clams. Bring the liquor to boiling point and skim.
Chop the clams fine, add them to the liquor and cook gently for ten
minutes. Then press through a sieve. Put one quart of milk into a double
boiler; add to it a bay leaf. Rub together two tablespoonfuls of butter
and two of flour, and stir carefully into the milk. Cook slowly until it
thickens. Now, add a teaspoonful of onion juice or grated onion, and
turn in the clam mixture. Stir carefully for a moment, season with salt
and pepper, and serve.

Remember this must not be boiled after the clam has been added to the
milk. If you have white stock in the house the soup is greatly improved
by having instead one quart of milk, one pint of milk and a pint of
stock.

CLUB CLAM SOUP

Drain fifty small clams, then chop them fine. Mix the liquor and the
clams, and add one quart of cold water, about two tablespoonfuls of
chopped ham, one large onion sliced thin, quarter of a teaspoonful of
mace and a sprig of parsley. Bring this slowly to a boiling point. Rub
together two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour. Stir them into
the soup carefully, add just a dash of salt and a quarter teaspoonful
of pepper. Bring to boiling point, then take from the fire and turn in
one pint of hot milk, to which you have just added the well-beaten yolks
of four eggs. Stir quickly and serve with squares of toasted bread.

MOCK OYSTER SOUP

Select about one dozen roots of salsify. Scrape them and throw at once
into cold water to prevent discoloration. Cut the salsify crosswise into
thin slices. Put them into one quart of cold water and add about two
ounces of codfish. This is best in one solid piece. Simmer gently for
thirty minutes and remove the codfish. Have ready one pint of milk
heated in a double boiler. Add it to the salsify, then stir in carefully
one tablespoonful of butter and two of flour that have been rubbed to a
smooth paste. Season with salt and pepper. Then, just as you take it
from the fire, add another teaspoonful of butter, cut into pieces, and
it is ready to serve.

CUCUMBER TAPIOCA SOUP

Boil three good-sized cucumbers, cut them into slices and cover them
with one quart of white stock. Simmer gently for twenty minutes. Then
press through a sieve. Soak two tablespoonfuls of pearl tapioca in one
pint of milk in a cold place for one hour. Stand this in a double boiler
and heat slowly until the tapioca is perfectly clear. Heat the cucumber
mixture; add a teaspoonful of salt, teaspoonful of onion juice and
quarter teaspoonful of pepper. Turn into the hot milk. Have ready in the
tureen the yolks of two eggs, well-beaten. Pour the soup over
gradually.

QUICK CLEAR SOUP

Put one pound of finely-chopped meat into one pint of cold water, beat
it for about a minute with an egg beater, and let it stand for thirty
minutes, while you prepare the flavoring. Stir one tablespoonful of beef
extract into a quart of boiling water. Add a tablespoonful of grated
onion and one bay leaf. Now bring the meat to boiling point. Strain in a
colander. Beat the white and shell of one egg with two tablespoonfuls of
cold water. Put the soup you have strained from the meat over the fire,
and when boiling add to the egg mixture, bring to boiling point and
strain through two thicknesses of cheese cloth. Then add this to the
beef extract mixture, season with teaspoonful of salt and quarter
teaspoonful of pepper, and it is ready to serve.

This may be served with two tablespoonfuls of boiled rice or boiled
macaroni, or with fresh rings of cucumbers. To prepare these rings cut a
large cucumber into slices crosswise. With a round cutter stamp them out
just as much as you can to remove the skin, and then with a smaller
cutter stamp out the seeds. Throw these rings into boiling salted water
and boil for twenty minutes; strain and put in the soup. Or this soup
may be served a la Royal.

A LA ROYAL

Beat two eggs until well mixed; add two tablespoonfuls of stock, half
teaspoonful of salt and a quarter teaspoonful of pepper. Now add two
tablespoonfuls of milk or cream, and turn into a small buttered basin or
mold. Stand this mold in a pan of boiling water and cook gently, either
in the oven or on the top of the stove, until the custard is "set." When
cold cut into blocks or into fancy shapes. Put this in the tureen and
pour over the soup.

BISQUE OF SALMON

Wash well a half cup of rice. Put it into a quart of water and boil
rapidly for thirty minutes. Then press it through a puree sieve and add
to it the salmon from a one pound can, removing first all the bones,
skin and oil. Now press this again through a sieve; add a teaspoonful of
salt, bay leaf, tablespoonful of grated onion and half teaspoonful of
pepper. Stand it over the back part of the stove until it is steaming
hot. Heat one quart of milk in a double boiler. Rub together two
tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour. Stir this carefully into the
milk and stir until perfectly smooth and thick. Then add a level
teaspoonful of salt; turn this mixture into the other, remove the bay
leaf, bring to scald-point, and serve. If you like this soup a little
deeper color, add a few drops of cochineal. Halibut may be used in
precisely the same way, of course, keeping the soup perfectly white.

CURRANT SOUP

This soup may be made from any sort of fresh, tart fruit. It should be
served for lunch perfectly cold, in either punch or bouillon cups. Put
one pint of currants and one pint of water over the fire and bring to
scalding point. Add half cup of sugar. Press through a puree sieve,
return to the fire and add one tablespoonful of arrow-root, moistened in
two tablespoonfuls of water. Bring to boiling point until the soup is
clear, then stand away to cool. If you use wine, add two tablespoonfuls
of white wine. Cherries, cranberries and strawberries may be used in the
same way, adding more or less sugar, according to the kind of fruit, but
these soups should not be sweet. Use just enough sugar to make them
palatable.

CHOCOLATE SOUP

Put three tablespoonfuls of cocoa into a double boiler, and add
gradually one pint of boiling water. Stir for at least five minutes over
the fire. Add four tablespoonfuls of sugar, take from the fire and add a
teaspoonful of vanilla. Turn this into one pint of cracked ice, and when
the soup is cold, turn into the serving cups, and put on the surface a
tablespoonful of whipped cream, and serve.

CREAM OF CHESTNUT SOUP

Shell and blanch one pound of large chestnuts. Cover them with a quart
of boiling water; add a slice of onion, piece of celery chopped, a bay
leaf, sprig of parsley and a dash of paprica. Cover and boil thirty
minutes. Press first through a colander; then add one pint of milk;
return the whole to the fire. Rub together two tablespoonfuls of butter
and two of flour; add to the soup; cook a minute; add a palatable
seasoning of salt, and then press the whole through a puree sieve. Make
hot and serve with croutons.

PISTACHIO SOUP

Wash one quart of nice spinach. Pick each leaf from the stem and throw
into a saucepan; stand over the fire for a moment, shaking so that the
spinach will not discolor. Sprinkle over a teaspoonful of salt. As soon
as the spinach begins to wilt, drain and chop very fine, then pound it
to a paste. Put one quart of milk into a double boiler; add one
teaspoonful of almond paste unsweetened, and two ounces of pistachio
nuts chopped to a powder. Cover and cook twenty minutes. Add spinach,
one tablespoonful of butter, one of arrow-root, moistened, and press
through a puree sieve. Add a teaspoonful of salt, dash of paprica, and
serve. Nice for green lunch.

YE FOOD FOR YE GODS

Peel half pound of good, fresh mushrooms; remove the lower part of
stems. Wash the mushrooms, and chop them very fine with a silver knife.
Put them in a saucepan, with one quart of good chicken stock. Cover and
simmer gently thirty minutes; add teaspoonful of salt and simmer ten
minutes longer. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in another saucepan,
add three tablespoonfuls of fine flour, mix and cook a minute without
browning; add a half pint of thick cream to the mushrooms, then add the
whole to the butter and flour, stir constantly until it just comes to
boiling point; add dash of white pepper and serve in bouillon cups.
Serve with whole wheat bread toasted in oven.

OATMEAL SOUP

Add one cup of cold cooked oatmeal to one quart of water; add a slice of
onion, sprig of celery top, bay leaf, teaspoonful of salt, saltspoonful
of pepper. Cover and boil slowly ten minutes; add a half teaspoonful of
beef extract, or, if you have stock, use it in place of water. Now press
through a sieve; return to the fire; when boiling, add half pint of hot
milk, and serve.

MANY WAYS FOR COOKING EGGS

By Mrs. S.T. Rorer

Author of Mrs. Rorer's New Cook Book, Philadelphia Cook Book, Bread
and Bread-Making, and other Valuable Works on Cookery.

CONTENTS

SAUCES

English Drawn Butter, Plain Hollandaise; Anchovy, Bechamel, Tarragon,
Horseradish, Cream or White, Brown Butter, Perigueux, Tomato, Paprika,
Curry, Italian

COOKING OF EGGS

To Preserve Eggs, Egging and Crumbing, Shirred Eggs, Mexicana, On a
Plate, de Lesseps, Meyerbeer, a la Reine, au Miroir, a la Paysanne, a
la Trinidad, Rossini, Baked in Tomato Sauce, a la Martin, a la
Valenciennes, Fillets, a la Suisse, with Nut-Brown Butter, Timbales,
Coquelicot, Suzette, en Cocotte. Steamed in the Shell, Birds' Nests,
Eggs en Panade, Egg Pudding, a la Bonne Femme, To Poach Eggs, Eggs
Mirabeau, Norwegian, Prescourt, Courtland, Louisiana, Richmond,
Hungarian, Nova Scotia, Lakme, Malikoff, Virginia, Japanese, a la
Windsor, Buckingham, Poached on Fried Tomatoes, a la Finnois, a la
Gretna, a l'Imperatrice, with Chestnuts, a la Regence, a la
Livingstone, Mornay, Zanzibar, Monte Bello, a la Bourbon, Bernaise, a
la Rorer, Benedict, To Hard-boil, Creole, Curried, Beauregard,
Lafayette, Jefferson, Washington, au Gratin, Deviled, a la Tripe, a
l'Aurore, a la Dauphin, a la Bennett, Brouilli, Scalloped, Farci,
Balls, Deviled Salad, Japanese Hard, en Marinade, a la Polonnaise, a
la Hyde, a la Vinaigrette, a la Russe, Lyonnaise, Croquettes, Chops,
Plain Scrambled, Scrambled with Chipped Beef, Scrambled with Lettuce,
Scrambled with Shrimps, Scrambled with Fresh Tomatoes, Scrambled with
Rice and Tomato, Scrambled with Asparagus Tips, Egg Flip

OMELETS

Omelet with Asparagus Tips, with Green Peas, Havana, with Tomato
Sauce, with Oysters, with Sweetbreads, with Tomatoes, with Ham, with
Cheese, with Fine Herbs, Spanish, Jardiniere, with Fresh Mushrooms,
O'Brien, with Potatoes

SWEET OMELETS

Omelet a la Washington, with Rum, Swiss Souffle, a la Duchesse,
Souffle

SAUCES

The philosophy of a sauce, when understood, enables even an untrained
cook to make a great variety of every day sauces from materials
usually found in every household; to have them uniform, however,
flavorings must be correctly blended, and measurements must be rigidly
observed. Two level tablespoonfuls of butter or other fat, two level
tablespoonfuls of flour, must be used to each half pint of liquid. If
the yolks of eggs are added, omit one tablespoonful of flour or the
sauce will be too thick. Tomato sauce should be flavored with onion, a
little mace, and a suspicion of curry. Brown sauce may be simply
seasoned with salt and pepper, flavored and colored with kitchen
bouquet. Spanish sauce should also be flavored with mushrooms, or if
you can afford it, a truffle, a little chopped ham, a tablespoonful of
chives, shallot and garlic. Water sauce, drawn butter and simple sauce
Hollandaise, when they are served with fish, must be flavored with a
dash of tarragon vinegar, salt and pepper.

ENGLISH DRAWN BUTTER

    3 tablespoonfuls of butter
  1/2 pint of boiling water
    2 tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 dash of pepper

Rub two tablespoonfuls of butter and the flour together, add the
boiling water, stir until boiling, add the salt and pepper; take from
the fire, add the remaining tablespoonful of butter and it is ready
for use. It must not be boiled after the last butter is added.

PLAIN SAUCE HOLLANDAISE

Make English drawn butter and add to it, when done, the yolks of two
eggs beaten with two tablespoonfuls of water; cook until thick and
jelly-like, take from the fire and add one tablespoonful of tarragon
vinegar or the juice of half a lemon.

ANCHOVY SAUCE

Rub two teaspoonfuls of anchovy essence with the butter and flour and
then finish the same as English drawn butter.

SAUCE BECHAMEL

    2 tablespoonfuls of butter
    1 yolk of an egg
  1/2 cup of milk
    1 saltspoonful of pepper
    1 tablespoonful of flour
  1/2 cup of stock
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt

Rub the butter and flour together, add the stock and the milk and stir
until boiling; add the salt and pepper, take from the fire and add the
beaten yolk of the egg, heat for a moment over hot water, and it is
ready for use.

TARRAGON SAUCE

Add two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar to an English drawn butter.

HORSERADISH SAUCE

Make an English drawn butter, and, just at serving time, add a half
cupful of freshly grated horseradish. If you are obliged to use that
preserved in vinegar, press it perfectly dry before using it.

CREAM OR WHITE SAUCE

    2 tablespoonfuls of butter
  1/2 pint of milk
    2 tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Rub the butter and flour together, add the milk cold and stir until
boiling; add the pepper and salt and it is ready for use.

BROWN BUTTER SAUCE

    6 tablespoonfuls of butter
    1 teaspoonful of mushroom catsup
    1 tablespoonful of vinegar
    4 tablespoonfuls of stock

Melt the butter, brown it and then skim; pour it carefully into a
clean saucepan, add the vinegar, catsup and stock, boil a minute, and
it is ready for use.

SAUCE PERIGUEUX

    4 tablespoonfuls of butter
  1/2 pint of stock
    1 glass of white wine
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    2 tablespoonfuls of flour
    1 bay leaf
    2 chopped truffles
    1 saltspoonful of pepper
    1 teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet

Chop the truffles and put them with the bay leaf and wine in a
saucepan on the back of the stove. Rub half the butter and flour
together, add the stock, stir until boiling and add one teaspoonful of
kitchen bouquet, the salt and pepper, and then the truffles; cook ten
minutes, add the remaining quantity of butter and use at once.

TOMATO SAUCE

Rub together two level tablespoonfuls of flour and two of butter. Add
a half pint of strained tomatoes. Stir until boiling. Add a
teaspoonful of onion juice, a half teaspoonful of salt and a
saltspoonful of pepper. Strain and use.

PAPRIKA SAUCE

Rub together two level tablespoonfuls of flour and two of butter, with
a tablespoonful of paprika. Add a half pint of chicken stock. Stir
until boiling. Add a half teaspoonful of salt, and strain. This sauce
may be used over chicken as well as eggs.

CURRY SAUCE

Chop fine one onion. Cook it with two level tablespoonfuls of butter
until soft. Do not brown. Add two level tablespoonfuls of flour, one
teaspoonful of curry powder and a half teaspoonful of salt. Mix and
add a half pint of boiling water. Stir until boiling, and strain.

ITALIAN SAUCE

Chop sufficient carrot to make a tablespoonful; chop one onion. Place
them in a saucepan with three level tablespoonfuls of butter, a bay
leaf and a blade of mace. Shake the pan over the fire until the
vegetables are slightly browned. Drain off the butter and add to it
two level tablespoonfuls of flour, a half cupful of good stock, a half
cupful of strained tomatoes, and bring to a boil. Add a half
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of cayenne. Strain. Stir until boiling,
strain again and add four tablespoonfuls of sherry.

COOKING OF EGGS

Any single food containing all the elements necessary to supply the
requirements of the body is called a complete or typical food. Milk
and eggs are frequently so called, because they sustain the young
animals of their kind during a period of rapid growth. Nevertheless,
neither of these foods forms a perfect diet for the human adult. Both
are highly nutritious, but incomplete.

Served with bread or rice, they form an admirable meal and one that is
nutritious and easily digested. The white of eggs, almost pure
albumin, is nutritious, and, when cooked in water at 170 degrees
Fahrenheit, requires less time for perfect digestion than a raw egg.
The white of a hard-boiled egg is tough and quite insoluble. The yolk,
however, if the boiling has been done carefully for twenty minutes, is
mealy and easily digested. Fried eggs, no matter what fat is used, are
hard, tough and insoluble. The yolk of an egg cooks at a lower
temperature than the white, and for this reason an egg should not be
boiled unless the yolk alone is to be used.

Ten eggs are supposed to weigh a pound, and, unless they are unusually
large or small, this is quite correct.

Eggs contain from 72 to 84 per cent. of water, about 12 to 14 per
cent. of albuminoids. The yolk is quite rich in fat; the white
deficient. They also contain mineral matter and extractives.

To ascertain the freshness of an egg without breaking it, hold your
hand around the egg toward a bright light or the sun and look through
it. If the yolk appears quite round and the white clear, it is fresh.
Or, if you put it in a bucket of water and it falls on its side, it is
fresh. If it sort of topples in the water, standing on its end, it is
fairly fresh, but, if it floats, beware of it. The shell of a fresh
egg looks dull and porous. As it begins to age, the shell takes on a
shiny appearance. If an egg is kept any length of time, a portion of
its water evaporates, which leaves a space in the shell, and the egg
will "rattle." An egg that rattles may be perfectly good, and still
not absolutely fresh.

TO PRESERVE EGGS

To preserve eggs it is only necessary to close the pores of the
shells. This may be done by dipping them in melted paraffine, or
packing them in salt, small ends down; or pack them in a keg and cover
them with brine; or pack them in a keg, small ends down and cover them
with lime water; this not only protects them from the air, but acts as
a germicide.

Eggs should not be packed for winter use later than the middle of May
or earlier than the first of April. Where large quantities of the
yolks are used, the whites may be evaporated and kept in glass bottles
or jars. Spread them out on a stoneware or granite plate and allow
them to evaporate at the mouth of a cool oven. When the mixture is
perfectly dry, put it away. This powder is capable of taking up the
same amount of water that has been evaporated from it, and may then be
used the same as fresh whites.

EGGS AND CRUMBING

To do this successfully one must prepare a mixture, and not use the
egg alone. If an egg mixture or a croquette is dipped in beaten egg
and rolled in cracker crumbs and dropped into fat, it always has a
greasy covering. This is the wrong way. To do it successfully and have
the articles handsome, beat the egg until well mixed, add a
teaspoonful of olive oil, a tablespoonful of water and a dash of
pepper. Dip the articles into this mixture, and then drop them on
quite a thick bed of either sifted dry bread crumbs or soft white
bread crumbs.

I prefer sifted dry bread crumbs for croquettes, and soft white crumbs
for lobster cutlets and deviled crabs.

SHIRRED EGGS

Cover the bottoms of individual dishes with a little butter and a few
fresh bread crumbs; drop into each dish two fresh eggs; stand this
dish in a pan of hot water and cook in the oven until the whites are
"set." Put a tiny bit of butter in the middle of each, and a dusting
of salt and pepper.

EGGS MEXICANA

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan. Add four
tablespoonfuls of finely chopped onion and shake until the onion is
soft, but not brown. Then add four Spanish peppers cut in strips, a
dash of red pepper and a half pint of tomatoes; the tomatoes should be
in rather solid pieces. Add a seasoning of pepper and salt. Let this
cook slowly while you shir the desired quantity of eggs. When the eggs
are ready to serve, put two tablespoonfuls of this sauce at each side
of the dish, and send at once to the table.

EGGS ON A PLATE

Rub the bottom of a baking dish with butter. Dust it lightly with salt
and pepper. Break in as many fresh eggs as required. Stand the dish in
a basin of water and cook in the oven five minutes, or until the
whites are "set." While these are cooking, put two tablespoonfuls of
butter in a pan and shake over the fire until it browns. When the eggs
are done, baste them with the browned butter, and send to the table.

EGGS DE LESSEPS

Shir the eggs as directed. Have ready, carefully boiled, two sets of
calves' brains; cut them into slices; put two or three slices between
the eggs, and then pour over browned butter sauce.

EGGS MEYERBEER

To each half dozen eggs allow three lambs' kidneys. Broil the kidneys.
Shir the eggs as directed in the first recipe. When done, put half a
kidney on each side of the plate and pour over sauce Perigueux.

EGGS A LA REINE

    6 eggs
  1/2 pint of chopped cold cooked chicken
  1/2 can of mushrooms
    2 tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 pint of milk
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Use ordinary shirring dishes for the eggs; butter them, break into
each one egg, stand these in a pan of boiling water and in the oven
until they are "set." Rub the butter and flour together, add the milk,
stir until boiling, add the salt, pepper, chopped chicken and
mushrooms, and put one tablespoonful of this on top of each egg and
send at once to the table. This is also nice if you put a
tablespoonful of the mixture in the bottom of the dish, break the egg
into it, and then at serving time put another tablespoonful over the
top.

EGGS AU MIROIR

Cover the bottom of a graniteware or silver platter with fresh bread
crumbs, break in as many eggs as are needed for the number of persons
to be served. Put bits of butter here and there, stand the platter
over a baking pan of hot water in the oven until the eggs are "set,"
dust them with salt and pepper and send them to the table.

EGGS A LA PAYSANNE

    6 eggs
  1/2 cupful of cream
    2 tablespoonfuls of grated onion
    1 clove of garlic
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Add the onion and the garlic, mashed, to the cream; pour it in the
bottom of a baking dish, break on top the eggs, dust with salt and
pepper, stand the baking dish in a pan of water and cook in the oven
until the eggs are "set." Serve in the dish in which they are cooked.

EGGS A LA TRINIDAD

    6 eggs
    2 lamb's kidneys
    1 cupful of fresh bread crumbs
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 pint of stock
    1 teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Split the kidneys, cut out the tubes; scald them, drain, and cut them
into thin slices. Put the butter into a saucepan, add the kidneys,
toss until the kidneys are cooked, then add the flour, stock, kitchen
bouquet, salt and pepper; stir until boiling. Grease a shallow granite
or silver platter, break into it the eggs, sprinkle over the bread
crumbs and stand them in the oven until the eggs are "set," then pour
over the sauce, arrange the kidneys around the edge of the dish and
send at once to the table.

EGGS ROSSINI

    6 eggs
    4 chicken livers
   12 nice mushrooms
  1/2 cupful of stock
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 dash of pepper

Put the stock in a saucepan and boil rapidly until reduced one-half,
add a drop or two of browning. Throw the chicken livers into boiling
water and let them simmer gently for ten minutes; drain. Slice the
mushrooms and put them, with the livers, into the stock; let them
stand until you have cooked the eggs. Put a tablespoonful of butter in
the bottom of a shallow platter; when melted break in the eggs, stand
them in the oven until "set," garnish with the livers and mushrooms
and pour over the sauce.

EGGS BAKED IN TOMATO SAUCE

Make a tomato sauce. Pour one-half in the bottom of a baking dish or
granite platter, break in from four to six fresh eggs, cover with the
other half of the sauce, dust the top with grated cheese, and bake in
a moderate oven until "set," about fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve
for supper in the place of meat.

EGGS A LA MARTIN

Make a half pint of cream sauce. Put half of it in the bottom of a
baking dish or into the bottom of ramekin dishes or individual cups.
Break fresh eggs on top of the cream sauce, dust with a little salt
and pepper, pour over the remaining cream sauce, sprinkle the top with
grated cheese, and bake in a moderate oven until the cheese is browned
and eggs are "set." Serve in the dish or dishes in which they are
cooked.

EGGS A LA VALENCIENNE

    6 eggs
    1 pint of dry boiled rice
  1/2 pint of strained tomato
    2 mushrooms
    2 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg
  1/2 teaspoonful of paprika
    1 teaspoonful of salt
  1/2 saltspoonful of pepper

Rub the butter and flour together, add the strained tomato, stir until
boiling, add the mushrooms, sliced, salt, paprika, nutmeg and pepper.
Take a granite or silver platter, put in two tablespoonfuls of butter
extra, let the butter melt and heat; break into this the eggs, being
very careful not to break the yolks. Let the eggs cook in the oven
until "set." Then put around the edge of the dish as a garnish the
boiled rice, pour over the eggs the tomato sauce, dust the top with
the Parmesan cheese and send at once to the table.

FILLETS OF EGGS

    6 eggs
    4 tablespoonfuls of good stock
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Beat the eggs with the stock, add the salt and pepper. Turn them into
a buttered square pan, stand this in another of boiling water, and
cook in the oven until the eggs are thoroughly "set." Cut the
preparation into thin fillets or slices, dip in either a thin batter
made from one egg, a half cupful of milk and flour to thicken, or they
may be dipped in beaten egg, rolled in bread crumbs and fried in deep
hot fat. Arrange the fillets in a platter on a napkin, one overlapping
the other; garnish with parsley and send to the table with a boat of
tomato or white sauce.

EGGS A LA SUISSE

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with about two tablespoonfuls of
butter cut into bits. On top of this, very thin slices of Swiss
cheese. Break over some fresh eggs. Dust with salt and pepper. To each
half dozen eggs, pour over a half cup of cream. Then cover the top
with grated Swiss cheese and bake in the oven until the cheese is
melted and the eggs "set." Send this to the table with a plate of dry
toast.

EGGS WITH NUT-BROWN BUTTER

These eggs may be shirred or poached and served on toast. Put two
tablespoonfuls of butter in a saute or frying pan. As soon as it
begins to heat, break into it the eggs and cook slightly until the
yolks are "set;" dish them at once on toast or thin slices of broiled
ham. Put two more tablespoonfuls of butter in the pan, let it brown,
and add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar; boil it up once and pour over
the eggs.

EGG TIMBALES

Butter small timbale molds or custard cups, dust the bottoms and sides
with chopped tongue and finely chopped mushrooms. Break into each mold
one fresh egg. Stand the mold in a baking pan half filled with boiling
water, and cook in the oven, until the eggs are "set." Have ready
nicely toasted rounds of bread, one for each cup, and a well-made
tomato or cream sauce. Loosen the eggs from the cups with a knife,
turn each out onto a round of toast, arrange neatly on a heated
platter, fill the bottom of the platter with cream or tomato sauce,
garnish the dish with nicely seasoned green peas and serve at once.

EGGS COQUELICOT

Grease small custard or timbale cups and put inside of each a cooked
Spanish pepper. Drop in the pepper one egg. Dust it lightly with salt,
stand the cups in a pan of boiling water and cook in the oven until
the eggs are "set." Toast one round of bread for each cup and make a
half pint of cream sauce. When the eggs are "set," fill the bottom of
the serving platter with cream sauce, loosen the peppers from the cups
and turn them out on the rounds of toast. Stand them in the cream
sauce, dust on top of each a little chopped parsley and send to the
table.

EGGS SUZETTE

Bake as many potatoes as you have persons to serve. When done, cut off
the sides, scoop out a portion of the potato, leaving a wall about a
half inch thick. Mash the scooped-out portion, add to it a little hot
milk, salt and pepper, and put it into a pastry bag. Put a little
salt, pepper and butter into each potato and break in a fresh egg.
Press the potato from the pastry bag through a star tube around the
edge of the potato, forming a border. Stand these in a baking pan and
bake until the eggs are "set." Put a tablespoonful of cream sauce in
the center of each, and send to the table.

EGGS EN COCOTTE

Chop fine one good-sized onion. Cook it, over hot water, in two level
tablespoonfuls of butter. When the onion is soft add a quarter of a
can of mushrooms, chopped fine, two level tablespoonfuls of flour and
one cupful of stock. Stir until boiling. Add a tablespoonful of
chopped parsley, a half teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of
pepper. Put a tablespoonful of this sauce in the bottom of individual
cups. Break into each cup one egg. Pour over the remaining mixture.
Stand the cups in a pan of hot water and bake in a moderate oven about
five minutes.

EGGS STEAMED IN THE SHELL

Eggs put into hot water and kept away from the fire are much better
than eggs actually boiled for only a short time. The greater the
number of eggs to be cooked, the greater the amount of water that must
be used. To cook four eggs, put them into a kettle, pour over them two
quarts of water, cover the kettle and allow them to stand for ten
minutes. Lift them from the water, put them into a large bowl, cover
with boiling water, and send at once to the table. The whites will be
coagulated, but should be soft and creamy, while the yolks will be
perfectly cooked. If you should add six eggs to this volume of water,
lengthen the time of standing. A single egg, dropped into a quart of
water, must stand five minutes.

BIRDS' NESTS

Separate the eggs, allowing one to each person. Beat the whites to a
stiff froth. Heap them into individual dishes, make a nest, or hole,
in the center. Drop into this a whole yolk. Stand the dish in a pan of
water, cover, and cook in the oven about two or three minutes. Dust
lightly with salt and pepper, put a tiny bit of butter in the center
of each, and send at once to the table. This is one of the most
sightly of all egg dishes.

EGGS EN PANADE

    2 eggs
    6 slices of bread
  1/2 cupful of milk or cream
    4 tablespoonfuls of olive oil
    1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Trim the crusts from the bread. Beat the eggs until well mixed, but
not light, then add the milk or cream, salt and pepper. Put the oil in
a shallow frying pan, dip the slices of bread in the beaten egg and
drop them into the hot oil; when brown on one side, turn and brown the
other. Dish on a hot platter, dust with the chopped parsley and send
at once to the table.

EGG PUDDING

    6 eggs
    6 slices of bread
    1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley
    2 tablespoonfuls of chopped chives
    2 tablespoonfuls of butter
    1 tablespoonful of flour
  1/2 pint of milk
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of white pepper

Break the eggs in a bowl, add all the seasoning. Rub the butter and
flour together, add the milk, stir until boiling, and then add this to
the eggs; beat together until thoroughly mixed. Crumb the bread,
removing the crusts; stir this in at last. Turn into a buttered baking
dish, cover with grated cheese, and bake in the oven until thoroughly
"set" and a nice brown. It makes an exceedingly good, easily digested
luncheon or supper dish for children.

EGGS A LA BONNE FEMME

    1 Spanish or 2 Bermuda onions
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 pint of milk
    6 eggs
    1 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper
  1/2 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg

Separate the whites and yolks of the eggs. Put the butter into a
saucepan, add the onions, cut into _very thin_ slices; shake until the
onions are soft, but not brown, then dust over the flour, mix, and add
the milk, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Stir carefully until this reaches
boiling point, then stand it on the back part of the stove where it
will keep hot for at least ten minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs
until very creamy, then stir them into the sauce, take from the fire,
and fold in the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Turn into a baking
dish or casserole and bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes; serve at
once.

TO POACH EGGS

Use a shallow frying pan partly filled with boiling water. The eggs
must be perfectly fresh. The white of an egg is held in a membrane
which seems to lose its tenacity after the egg is three days old. Such
an egg, when dropped into boiling water, spreads out; that is, it does
not retain its shape. When ready to poach eggs, take the required
number to the stove. The water must be boiling hot, but not actually
bubbling. Break an egg into a saucer, slide it quickly into the water,
and then another and another. Pull the pan to the side of the stove,
where the water cannot possibly boil. With a tablespoon, baste the
water over the yolks of the eggs, if they happen to be exposed. They
must be entirely covered with a thin veil of the white. Have ready the
desired quantity of toast on a heated platter, lift each egg with a
slice or skimmer, trim off the ragged edges and slide them at once on
the toast. Dust with salt and pepper, baste with melted butter, and
send to the table.

EGGS MIRABEAU

Cut a sufficient number of rounds of bread, toast them carefully and
cover them with _pate de foie gras_, put on top of each a poached egg,
pour over sauce Perigueux, and send to the table.

EGGS NORWEGIAN

Cover rounds of toasted bread first with butter and then with anchovy
paste, put on top of each a poached egg, pour over anchovy sauce, and
send at once to the table.

EGGS PRESCOURT

Toast slices of bread, put thin slices of chicken on each, on top of
this a poached egg, cover with sauce Bernaise, and serve at once.

EGGS COURTLAND

Mince sufficient cold chicken to make a half cupful. Make a half pint
of cream sauce, add the minced chicken, a half teaspoonful of salt and
a dash of red pepper. Toast a sufficient quantity of bread, put it on
a heated platter, pour over a small quantity of the minced chicken and
cream sauce, put on each a poached egg, cover with the remaining
sauce, dust with parsley and serve with a garnish of green peas.

EGGS LOUISIANA

Make a half pint of tomato sauce, toast a sufficient quantity of
bread, butter the bread and put on each slice a poached egg; cover
with the tomato sauce.

EGGS RICHMOND

Chop sufficient cold chicken to make a half cupful, add an equal
quantity of finely-chopped mushrooms, add this to a half pint of cream
sauce. Add one unbeaten egg to a pint of cold boiled rice, season it
with salt and pepper, make into round, flat cakes, and fry in hot fat.
Arrange these on a heated platter, pour over the cream sauce mixture,
and put on top of each a poached egg.

HUNGARIAN EGGS

Boil a cup of rice until tender and dry. Make a half pint of paprika
sauce. Turn the rice into the center of a platter, smooth it down,
cover the top with poached eggs, pour over the paprika sauce and send
at once to the table.

EGGS NOVA SCOTIA

Put a poached egg on top of a flat codfish cake, pour over cream or
tomato sauce, and send to the table.

EGGS LAKME

Cut cold chicken or turkey into very thin slices, and stand over hot
water, in a dish, until heated; toast a sufficient quantity of bread,
butter the slices, put on each a slice of chicken or turkey, dust
lightly with salt and pepper. On top of these place a poached egg,
cover with tarragon sauce, and send to the table.

EGGS MALIKOFF

Toast rounds of bread, cover them with caviar which has been seasoned
with a little onion and pepper. Put on top of each a poached egg,
cover with horseradish sauce, and send to the table.

EGGS VIRGINIA

Grate six ears of corn. Add half cupful of milk, a half cupful of
flour and two eggs, beaten separately, and a half teaspoonful of salt
and a dash of pepper. Drop the mixture in large tablespoonfuls in hot
fat. When brown on one side, turn and brown on the other. Drain and
arrange neatly on a large platter. Put a poached egg on the top of
each cake, cover with cream sauce and send to the table. This dish,
with green peas, makes quite a complete meal.

JAPANESE EGGS

Carefully boil one cup of rice, drain dry. Make a half pint of cream
sauce, add to it a teaspoonful of grated onion and a teaspoonful of
chopped celery. Poach the desired number of eggs. Put the rice in the
center of a platter, cover it with the eggs, pour over the sauce. Dust
the dish with parsley, and send at once to the table. The edge of this
dish may be garnished with broiled sardines or carefully broiled
smoked salmon.

EGGS A LA WINDSOR

    6 eggs
    6 rounds of toast
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 pint of chicken stock
    1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley
    1 tablespoonful of chopped olive
    1 tablespoonful of chopped Spanish pepper
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of black pepper

Rub the butter and flour together and add the stock; stir until
boiling, and add the salt and pepper. Toast the bread. Poach the eggs,
put them on the toast, pour over carefully the sauce, heap the chopped
vegetables, mixed, in the center of each egg and send to the table.

EGGS BUCKINGHAM

Allow one egg to each person that is to be served. Cut either a dry or
a Virginia ham into very thin slices; allow one thin square to each
person. Toast squares of bread, remove the crust. Broil the ham
quickly; put each square of ham on a square of toast, put on top a
poached egg, dust lightly with pepper and send to the table.

POACHED EGGS ON FRIED TOMATOES

Cut solid tomatoes into slices a quarter of an inch thick, dust them
with salt and pepper, dip them in egg beaten with a tablespoonful of
water, roll them thickly with bread crumbs, dip them again in the egg,
dust again with bread crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat. Drain on brown
paper, dish on a heated platter, put a poached egg in the center of
each slice, dust with salt and pepper, put a tablespoonful of tomato
sauce over each egg and send at once to the table. Cream sauce may be
used in the place of tomato sauce.

EGGS A LA FINNOIS

    6 eggs
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 pint of strained tomato
    1 tablespoonful of chopped chives
    2 green peppers

Rub the butter and flour together, add the tomatoes, and the peppers,
chopped very fine. Stir until this reaches boiling point, and stand it
over hot water. Poach the eggs in deep water. Toast six rounds of
bread; arrange the toast on a platter, put one egg on each slice, pour
around the tomato sauce, dust thickly with the chives and send to the
table.

EGGS A LA GRETNA

    6 eggs
    2 heads of celery
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 pint of milk
    1 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Cut the celery into inch lengths, wash thoroughly, cover with boiling
water and simmer gently thirty minutes until the celery is tender;
drain, saving the water in which the celery was cooked for another
purpose. Rub the butter and flour together, add the milk, salt and
pepper; when boiling add the celery; stand this over hot water while
you poach the eggs and toast six squares of bread. Butter the toast,
put on each slice one egg; put these around the edge of a large
platter, turn the celery into the middle of the dish and send at once
to the table. To increase the beauty of this dish, and to give it a
greater food value, you may garnish between the toast and celery with
carefully boiled rice; this then makes an exceedingly nice supper
dish.

EGGS A L'IMPERATRICE

Toast six slices of bread; butter them, put on top a thin slice of
_pate de foie gras_, and on top of this a hot poached egg. Baste with
a little melted butter, dust with salt and pepper and send at once to
the table. This is one of the most elegant of all the egg dishes.

EGGS WITH CHESTNUTS

This is an exceedingly nice dish to serve in the Fall when chestnuts
are fresh. Shell a quart of chestnuts, blanch them, then boil them
until tender; drain and press through a colander. Add a half cupful of
hot milk, a tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of salt and a
saltspoonful of pepper. Beat until light and stand over a kettle of
hot water while you poach six or eight eggs. Dish the chestnut puree
in a small platter, cover the poached eggs over the top, dust them
with salt, pepper and chopped parsley.

EGGS A LA REGENCE

    6 eggs
  1/2 cupful of chopped cold cooked ham
    1 grated onion
  1/2 can of chopped mushrooms
    2 tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 pint of chicken stock
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Stand the ham over hot water until thoroughly heated. Rub the butter
and flour together, add the stock, stir until boiling, add the
mushrooms, sliced, the salt, pepper and the onion; stand this over hot
water while you poach the eggs. Dish the eggs, cover them with the
sauce, strained, and cover with the chopped ham. Garnish the dish with
mashed potatoes or boiled rice, and send at once to the table.

EGGS A LA LIVINGSTONE

    6 squares of toast
    1 tureen of pate-de-foie-gras
    6 eggs
  1/2 cupful of good stock
    2 tablespoonfuls of sherry
    1 teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 dash of pepper

Toast the bread, butter it and put on top of each slice of toast a
slice of _pate de foie gras_; put this on a heated dish, stand it at
the mouth of the oven door while you poach the eggs. Put into a
saucepan all the other ingredients, bring to a boil, put one poached
egg on each slice of _pate de foie gras_; baste with the sauce and
send at once to the table.

EGGS MORNAY

    6 eggs
    2 tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 pint of milk
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
  1/2 teaspoonful of paprika
    4 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese

Rub the butter and flour together, add the milk, stir until boiling,
add the salt and paprika, and if you have it, a teaspoonful of soy;
pour half of this sauce in a shallow granite platter or baking dish.
Poach the eggs, drain them carefully, and put them over the top of the
sauce, cover with the remaining sauce, dust with Parmesan cheese and
run in the oven a moment to brown.

EGGS ZANZIBAR

    1 small egg plant
    1 thin slice of ham
    6 eggs
    2 tablespoonfuls of sherry
    2 tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    1 dash of pepper

Cut the egg plant into slices, season it with salt and pepper, dip in
egg and bread crumbs and fry carefully in deep hot fat; put this on
brown paper in the oven to dry. Broil the ham, cut it into squares
sufficiently small to go neatly on top of each slice of egg plant.
Poach the eggs, and heat the other ingredients for the sauce. Dish the
egg plant on a platter, put on the ham, and on each piece of ham an
egg; baste with sauce and send to the table.

EGGS MONTE BELLO

    6 eggs
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 pint of strained tomato
    1 teaspoonful of onion juice
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Put about two quarts of water into a small deep saucepan; when boiling
very hard drop in, one at a time, the eggs. In dropping them in, the
white will fold over the yolk and make the eggs round. Push them to
the back of the stove to stand for two minutes. Lift them with a
skimmer, dip them in an egg beaten with a tablespoonful of water, dust
them with bread crumbs and fry them in deep hot fat. You cannot use a
frying basket. Just drop them in the fat, and as they are browned lift
them out onto soft paper to drain. Rub the butter and flour together,
add the tomato and seasoning; when boiling dish the eggs on a heated
platter, pour around tomato sauce and send to the table.

EGGS A LA BOURBON

    6 eggs
  1/2 pint of stock
    1 tablespoonful of butter
    6 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 dash of pepper

Put the stock in a small saucepan, poach the eggs in it, two at a
time; lift them carefully and lay them on a hot granite or silver
dish. When all are poached, dust over the cheese and stand them in the
hot oven for just a moment until the cheese is melted. In the meantime
boil the stock until it is reduced one-half, add the butter, baste it
over the eggs and send to the table. This dish may be garnished with
triangular pieces of toast.

EGGS BERNAISE

    6 whole eggs
    4 yolks of eggs
    4 tablespoonfuls of stock
    4 tablespoonfuls of olive oil
    1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley
    1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar
    1 tablespoonful of butter
    1 tablespoonful of flour
  1/2 cupful of strained tomato
    1 teaspoonful of onion juice
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt

Put the stock, yolks of eggs and olive oil into a saucepan, stir over
hot water until you have a thick, smooth sauce like mayonnaise; take
from the fire, and when slightly cool stir in the tarragon vinegar and
parsley. Rub the butter and flour together, add the tomato, and when
boiling add a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. Toast six halves
of English muffins or squares of bread. Heat a platter, butter the
toast, put it on the hot platter, and poach the eggs. Put one poached
egg on each slice of toast, fill the bottom of the dish with tomato
sauce and put a tablespoonful of Bernaise sauce on top of each egg.
These may be garnished with a little chopped truffle, or a little
chopped parsley.

EGGS A LA RORER

Toast rounds of bread, one for each person. Butter them. Heat, in
boiling water, the choke of a French artichoke, one for each slice of
bread. Make sauce Hollandaise, and put one artichoke bottom on each
slice of bread on a heated platter. Put in the center a poached egg
and pour over the sauce Hollandaise. Garnish the dish with nicely
cooked French or fresh green peas.

EGGS BENEDICT

Separate two eggs. Break the yolks, add a cupful of milk, a half
teaspoonful of salt, one and a half cupfuls of flour and a
tablespoonful of melted butter. Beat well, add two level teaspoonfuls
of baking powder and fold in the well-beaten whites. Bake on a griddle
in large muffin rings. Broil thin slices of ham. Make a sauce
Hollandaise. Chop a truffle. Poach the required number of eggs. Dish
the muffins, put a square of ham on each, then a poached egg and cover
each egg nicely with sauce Hollandaise. Dust with truffle and serve at
once.

TO HARD-BOIL EGGS

Put the eggs in warm water, bring the water quickly to the boiling
point, then push the kettle to the back of the stove, where the water
will remain at 200 degrees Fahrenheit, for twenty minutes. If these
are to be used for made-over dishes, throw them at once into cold
water, remove the shells, or the yolks will lose their color.

EGGS CREOLE

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and four of chopped onions into a
saucepan, cook until the onion is soft, but not brown. Then add four
peeled fresh tomatoes that have been cut into pieces, and three finely
chopped green peppers. Cook this fifteen minutes, and add a level
teaspoonful of salt. Have the eggs hard-boiled, and cut into slices.
Put them into a baking dish, pour over the sauce, re-heat in the oven,
and serve with a dish of boiled rice.

CURRIED EGGS

Peel, and cut into slices, three large onions. Put them in a saucepan
with two tablespoonfuls of butter. Stand over hot water and cook until
the onions are soft. Add a teaspoonful of curry powder, a clove of
garlic mashed, a saltspoonful of ground ginger, a half teaspoonful of
salt and a tablespoonful of flour; mix thoroughly and add a half pint
of water. Stir until boiling. Have ready six hard-boiled eggs, cut
them into slices, arrange them over a dish of carefully boiled rice,
on a hot platter, strain over the sauce, and send at once to the
table. This dish is made more attractive by a garnish with sweet
Spanish peppers, cut into strips.

EGGS BEAUREGARD

Hard-boil five eggs. Separate the whites from the yolks. Put the yolks
through a sieve. Put the whites either through a vegetable press, or
chop them very fine. Make a half pint of cream sauce, season it and
add the whites. Have ready a sufficient amount of toast, carefully
buttered. Put this on a heated platter, cover over the cream sauce and
the whites, dust the tops with the yolks, then with salt and pepper.
Garnish the edge of the dish with finely chopped parsley, and send at
once to the table.

EGGS LAFAYETTE

Hard-boil six eggs, chop them, but not fine. Make a half pint of curry
sauce. Put the chopped eggs over a bed of carefully boiled rice, cover
with the curry sauce, garnish with strips of Spanish pepper and serve.
This dish may be changed by using tomato sauce in place of the curry
sauce.

EGGS JEFFERSON

Select the desired number of good-sized tomatoes, allowing one to each
person. Cut off the blossom end, scoop out the seeds, stand the
tomatoes in a baking pan in the oven until they are partly cooked. Put
a half teaspoonful of butter and a dusting of salt and pepper into the
bottom of each, and break in one egg. Put these back in the oven until
the eggs are "set." Have ready a round of toasted bread for each
tomato, stand the tomato in the center of the bread, fill the bottom
of the dish with cream sauce, and send to the table.

EGGS WASHINGTON

Add a half pint of crab meat to a half pint of cream sauce. Season
with salt and pepper. Have ready either bread pates or pates made from
puff paste. Put a tablespoonful of the crab mixture in the bottom of
each. Break in an egg. Stand in the oven until the egg is "set." Or
you may poach the eggs and slide them into the pate. Pour over the
remaining quantity of crabmeat sauce, and send at once to the table.

EGGS AU GRATIN

Make a pint of cream sauce. Hard-boil six eggs. Cut them into slices.
Put them in the baking dish and cover with the cream sauce. Dust
thickly with cheese, and brown quickly in the oven.

DEVILED EGGS

Hard-boil twelve eggs. Remove the shells. Cut the eggs into halves,
crosswise. Take out the yolks without breaking the whites. Press the
yolks through a sieve. Add four tablespoonfuls of finely chopped
chicken, tongue or ham. Add a half teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful
of pepper and two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Rub the mixture.
Form it into balls the size of the yolks and put them into the places
in the whites from which the yolks were taken. Put two halves
together, roll them in tissue paper that has been fringed at the ends,
giving each a twist. If these balls are made the size of the yolk, and
put back into the whites, they may be placed on a platter, heated, and
served on toast, with cream sauce; then they are very much like the
eggs Bernhardt.

EGGS A LA TRIPE

Hard-boil eight eggs. Remove the shells, cut eggs crosswise in rather
thick slices. Cut three small onions into very thin slices. Separate
them into rings, cover them with boiling water and boil rapidly ten
minutes; drain, then cover them with fresh water and boil until they
are tender; drain again, but save the water. Now mix the eggs and
onions carefully, without breaking. Put two level tablespoonfuls of
butter and two of flour into a saucepan. Mix. Add a grating of nutmeg,
a saltspoonful of black pepper, the juice of a lemon, and a half-pint
of the water in which the onions were boiled. Bring to the boiling
point, add two tablespoonfuls of cream; then add the eggs and onions.
When thoroughly hot, dish them in a conical form, garnish with
triangular pieces of toast, and serve.

EGGS A L'AURORE

Hard-boil six eggs, cut them into halves lengthwise, take out the
yolks, keeping them whole. Cut the whites into fine strips. Make a
cream sauce. Add to it two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped sardines
or finely chopped lobster or crab, a tablespoonful of tarragon
vinegar. Add the whites of the eggs, and, when quite hot, add the
yolks, without breaking them. Turn this at once into a heated dish,
garnish the dish with triangular pieces of toast, and send to the
table. Or, if you like, make the sauce, season it and put a layer into
the bottom of the baking-dish, then a layer of Parmesan cheese, then a
layer of the yolks, pressed through a sieve, and so on, alternating,
having the last layer of the yolks of the eggs. Dust over a few bread
crumbs, put here and there bits of butter, and brown quickly in the
oven.

EGGS A LA DAUPHIN

Remove the shells from six hard-boiled eggs, cut them into halves,
lengthwise, take out the yolks, press them through a sieve. Add four
level tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and half a teaspoonful of salt,
a grating of nutmeg and two tablespoonfuls of Parmesan cheese. Add
half a cupful of cream to a half cupful of sifted bread crumbs. Mix
this with the yolks, rub until smooth, then add one well-beaten egg,
and the yolk of one egg. Cover the bottom of the baking dish with the
mixture forming it in a pyramid and cover with the chopped whites.
Have ready two extra hard-boiled eggs, take out the yolks, press them
through a sieve, all over the top. Garnish the edges of the dish with
triangular pieces of toasted bread, cover the whole with cream sauce,
brown in the oven, and serve at once.

EGGS A LA BENNETT

    6 hard-boiled eggs
    2 tablespoonfuls of butter
    1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce
    1 tablespoonful of finely chopped chives or onion
  1/2 cupful of bread crumbs
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt

Cut the eggs into halves lengthwise; remove the yolks, rub them with
half the butter, salt, onion and anchovy paste. Fill these back into
the whites. Cover the bottom of a baking dish with ordinary white
sauce, stand in the eggs, put over the bread crumbs, baste them with
the remaining butter, melted, and stand in the oven long enough to
brown.

EGGS BROULLI

Beat four eggs. Add to them four tablespoonfuls of stock, four
tablespoonfuls of cream, a saltspoonful of salt and half a
saltspoonful of pepper. Turn them into a saucepan, stand in a pan of
hot water, stir with an egg-beater until they are thick and
jelly-like. Turn at once into a heated dish, garnish with toast and
send to the table.

SCALLOPED EGGS

    4 hard-boiled eggs
    2 tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 pint of milk
    1 cupful of finely chopped cold cooked chicken or fish
    1 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Chop the eggs rather fine. Rub the butter and flour together, add the
milk, stir until boiling, add the salt and pepper. Put a layer of eggs
in the bottom of a casserole, or baking dish, then a layer of the fish
or chicken, then a little white sauce, and so continue until the
ingredients are used. Dust the top thickly with bread crumbs and bake
in a moderate oven until nicely browned.

EGG FARCI

    6 hard-boiled eggs
    2 cupfuls of mashed potatoes
    1 cupful of finely chopped cold cooked meat
    1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley
    1 tablespoonful of butter
    1 tablespoonful of flour
    1 gill (a half cupful) of milk
    1 level teaspoonful of salt
    1 teaspoonful of onion juice
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Hard-boil the eggs, chop them fine, mix them with the meat, add the
salt, pepper and parsley. Rub the butter and flour together, add the
milk, stir until boiling; add this gradually to the potatoes. When
smooth add the hard-boiled eggs, meat and parsley. Fill into small
custard cups or into shirring dishes, brush with milk and brown in the
oven. These make a nice supper or luncheon dish.

EGG BALLS

These are used for soup and for garnishing of vegetable dishes.
Hard-boil four eggs, throw them at once into cold water, remove the
shells. Put the yolks through a sieve, then add a half teaspoonful of
salt, a dash of white pepper and the yolk of one raw egg, or you may
take a part of the white of one egg. Mix thoroughly and make into
balls the size of a marble, using enough flour to prevent sticking to
the hands. Drop these into a kettle of boiling stock, or into hot fat.
Drain on brown paper.

DEVILED EGG SALAD

    6 eggs
    1 head of lettuce
    1 pimiento
    1 teaspoonful of onion juice
  1/2 teaspoonful of paprika
  1/2 cupful of chopped boiled tongue
    1 saltspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Hard-boil the eggs, throw them into cold water, remove the shells, cut
them lengthwise. Take out the yolks without breaking the whites. Rub
the yolks through a sieve into a bowl, then add the tongue and all the
seasoning. If the mixture is dry add a tablespoonful or two of cream
or olive oil. Roll the mixture into balls that will fit the spaces
from which they were taken in the whites, making each ball round.
Arrange the lettuce over a platter, stand the whites in the lettuce,
and at serving time baste thoroughly with French dressing.

JAPANESE HARD EGGS

    1 cupful of rice
  1/2 pint of white sauce
    6 eggs
    1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, if you have it, and a
       suspicion of onion juice

Put the eggs into a saucepan of cold water, bring to boiling point,
and simmer gently twenty minutes. Wash the rice through several cold
waters, sprinkle it into a kettle of boiling water and boil it for
thirty minutes. Remove the shells, break the eggs while they are hot,
cut them into halves crosswise. Make the cream sauce, and add the
onion juice. When the rice is done, drain, sprinkle it in the center
of a large platter, press the halves of the eggs down into it, and
pour over the cream sauce. Garnish with the chopped parsley. This
takes the place of both meat and starchy vegetables for either
luncheon or supper.

EGGS EN MARINADE

    1 dozen eggs
    3 very red beets
    1 quart of cider vinegar
   24 whole cloves
    1 teaspoonful of mustard seed
    1 saltspoonful of celery seed
    1 teaspoonful of salt
    2 saltspoonfuls of pepper

Hard-boil the eggs; plunge them into cold water and remove the shells.
Stick the cloves into the eggs. Pare the beets, cut them into blocks
and boil them in about a pint of water. To this water add the vinegar,
bring it to boiling point, add salt, pepper and the celery and mustard
seed. Put the eggs into a glass jar and pour over the boiling vinegar;
put on the tops and stand them aside for three weeks. A tablespoonful
of grated horseradish or a half cupful of nasturtium seeds will
improve the flavor and prevent mold.

EGGS A LA POLONAISE

    6 eggs
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley
    1 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Hard-boil four of the eggs; when done remove the shells, cut the eggs
into halves lengthwise and take out the yolks, without breaking the
whites. Press the yolks through a sieve into a bowl, and add the raw
yolks of the remaining two eggs, with the parsley, salt and pepper.
Beat the white of the raw eggs until light, not stiff, then work them
into the yolk mixture. Cover the bottom of a shallow baking pan with
part of this mixture, then fill the spaces in the whites with some of
the remaining mixture. Put the whites of the eggs together, making
them look like whole eggs. Arrange these in the center of the dish. If
you have any of the yolk mixture left, put it around in a sort of a
border. Pour over a little melted butter, dust thickly with soft bread
crumbs and bake in a quick oven until slightly brown. Serve plain or
with cream sauce.

EGGS A LA HYDE

    6 eggs
  1/2 can of mushrooms
    1 tablespoonful of grated onion
    2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley
  1/2 cupful of sweet cream
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 pint of chicken stock or cocoanut milk
    1 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Hard-boil the eggs, and when done remove the shells and cut the eggs
into halves lengthwise, keeping the whites whole. Remove the yolks,
press them through a sieve, add to them the cream, half the salt and a
dash of cayenne. Mix thoroughly and fill into the whites and arrange
them neatly on a granite or silver platter. Put the butter into a
saucepan, add the onion and flour, then the stock or cocoanut milk,
and the mushrooms; stir, until it boils, add the remaining salt and
pepper; take from the fire and add the parsley. Pour this over the
eggs on the platter, dust thickly with bread crumbs, run into a quick
oven until brown.

EGGS A LA VINAIGRETTE

    6 eggs
    1 head of lettuce
    8 tablespoonfuls of olive oil
    1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley
    4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar
    1 tablespoonful of chopped gherkin
    1 tablespoonful of chopped olives
    1 tablespoonful of grated onion

Hard-boil the eggs, throw them into cold water; remove the shells and
cut them into slices lengthwise. Wash and dry the lettuce, arrange it
on a small meat platter, put over the top slices of hard-boiled eggs,
letting one slice overlap the other. Fill the center of the dish with
sliced, peeled tomatoes. Put a half teaspoonful of salt in a soup
plate, add a saltspoonful of pepper and the oil; put in a piece of ice
and stir until the salt is dissolved. Remove the ice, add all the
other ingredients but the parsley, mix thoroughly, pour this over the
eggs, dust with parsley and serve as a supper dish.

EGGS A LA RUSSE

    6 eggs
    1 small can of caviar (2 tablespoonfuls)
  1/2 pint of stock
    1 teaspoonful of onion juice
    1 dash of pepper

Hard-boil the eggs, remove the shells, cut them into halves
lengthwise; take out the yolks without breaking the whites, and press
them through a sieve, then add the caviar, onion juice and pepper.
Heap these back into the whites. Boil the stock until reduced
one-half, baste the eggs carefully, run them into the oven until hot,
pour over the remaining hot stock and send to the table.

EGGS LYONNAISE

    6 eggs
    1 onion
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    2 level tablespoonfuls of flour
  1/2 pint of milk
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 dash of pepper

Hard-boil the eggs, remove the shells, throw them in cold water. Cut
the onion into thin slices; put it, with the butter, into a saucepan,
shake until the onion is tender, then add the flour, milk and
seasoning; stir until boiling. At serving time cut the eggs into
slices crosswise, put them in a shallow baking dish, cover with cream
sauce and run in the oven just a moment until they are very hot.

EGG CROQUETTES

    6 eggs
  1/2 pint of milk
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    3 level tablespoonfuls of flour
    1 teaspoonful of onion juice
    1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley
  1/2 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg
    1 teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Hard-boil the eggs and chop them fine. Rub the butter and flour
together, add the milk, stir until you have a thick, smooth paste. Add
all the seasoning to the egg, mix the eggs into the white sauce and
turn out to cool. When cold form into cylinders, dip in egg beaten
with a tablespoonful of water, roll in bread crumbs and fry in deep
hot fat. Serve with cream sauce.

EGG CHOPS

    6 hard-boiled eggs
  1/2 pint of finely chopped cooked ham
  1/2 pint of milk
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    4 level tablespoonfuls of flour
    1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley
    1 teaspoonful of onion juice
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 dash of cayenne
    1 dash of white pepper

Chop the eggs very fine, mix them with the ham; add the parsley, onion
juice and pepper. Rub the butter and flour together and add the milk.
Stir until you have a smooth, thick sauce, then add the salt; mix this
with the other ingredients and turn it out to cool. When cold form
into a chop about the size of an ordinary mutton chop. Dip first in
egg beaten with a tablespoonful of water, then cover carefully with
bread crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. Serve with either tomato or
brown sauce.

PLAIN SCRAMBLED EGGS

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a shallow frying pan. Add a
tablespoonful of water to each egg. Six eggs are quite enough for four
people. Add a half teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper.
Give two or three beats--enough to break the eggs; turn them into the
frying pan, on the hot butter. Constantly scrape from the bottom of
the pan with a fork, while they are cooking. Serve with a garnish of
broiled bacon and toast.

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH CHIPPED BEEF

Pull apart a quarter of a pound of chipped beef, cover with boiling
water, let it stand ten minutes, drain and dry. Put it into a saucepan
with two level tablespoonfuls of butter, four eggs, beaten until they
are well mixed, and a dash of pepper. Stir with a fork until the eggs
are "set."

EGGS SCRAMBLED WITH LETTUCE

Remove the outside leaves from one head of lettuce; wash, dry, and
with a very sharp knife cut them into shreds. Chop sufficient onion to
make a tablespoonful. Put a tablespoonful of butter into a saucepan,
add the onion, shake until the onion is soft, then add six eggs,
beaten without separating until well mixed, but not light. Add a half
teaspoonful of salt, a half saltspoonful of pepper and the shredded
lettuce. Stir with a fork until the eggs are "set," turn at once onto
a heated platter, garnish with triangular pieces of toast and send to
the table.

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH SHRIMPS

    6 eggs
    1 can of shrimps or its equivalent in fresh shrimps
    1 green pepper
  1/2 pint of strained tomato
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt

Beat the eggs until well mixed, without separating. Put the butter in
a saucepan, add the pepper, chopped; shake until the pepper is soft,
add the tomato and all the seasoning, and the shrimps. Bring to
boiling point, push to the back of the stove where it will simmer
while you scramble the eggs. Put the scrambled eggs on toast in the
center of a platter, pour over and around the shrimp mixture and send
to the table.

EGGS SCRAMBLED WITH FRESH TOMATOES

    3 tomatoes
    4 eggs
    1 teaspoonful of onion juice
    1 level teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper
    2 tablespoonfuls of butter

Peel the tomatoes, cut them into halves and squeeze out the seeds. Cut
the tomatoes into small bits, put them into a saucepan with the salt,
pepper and butter; when these are hot add the eggs, beaten until well
mixed, stir until the eggs are "set," turn into a heated dish, garnish
with toast and send to the table.

EGGS SCRAMBLED WITH RICE AND TOMATO

This is an exceedingly nice dish for supper where one does not care
for meat. Four or six eggs can be used to each half-pint of cold
boiled rice, and either three fresh tomatoes, chopped, or two-thirds
of a cupful of solid strained tomato. Put a tablespoonful of butter, a
half teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper and the tomatoes
into a saucepan; when hot add the rice, and when the rice is hot add
the eggs, beaten without being very light. As soon as the eggs are
"set" serve this in a vegetable dish covered with squares of toasted
bread. This recipe is also nice with hard-boiled eggs; proceed as
directed, and at last add the hard-boiled eggs, sliced.

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS

    1 small can of asparagus tips
    6 eggs
    1 tablespoonful of butter
  1/2 teaspoonful of salt
    1 dash of pepper

Beat the eggs, add the salt, pepper and butter. Put them into a
saucepan, add at once the asparagus tips and stir with a fork until
the mixture is "set."

EGG FLIP

This dish is exceedingly nice for a child or an invalid. Separate one
egg, beat the white to a stiff froth, add the yolk and beat again.
Heap this in a pretty saucer, dust lightly with powdered sugar, put in
the center a teaspoonful of brandy, and serve at once. Sherry or
Madeira may be substituted for the brandy.

OMELETS

A plain French omelet is, perhaps, one of the most difficult of all
things to make; that is, it is the most difficult to have well made in
the ordinary private house. Failures come from beating the eggs until
they are too light, or having the butter too hot, or cooking the
omelet too long before serving.

In large families, where it is necessary to use a dozen eggs, two
omelets will be better than one. A six-egg omelet is quite easily
handled. Do not use milk; it toughens the eggs and gives an unpleasant
flavor to the omelet. An "omelet pan," a shallow frying pan, should be
kept especially for omelets. Each time it is used rub until dry, but
do not wash. Dust it with salt and rub it with brown paper until
perfectly clean.

To make an omelet: First, put a tablespoonful of butter in the middle
of the pan. Let it heat slowly. Break the eggs in a bowl, add a
tablespoonful of water to each egg and give twelve good, vigorous
beats. To each six eggs allow a saltspoonful of pepper, and, if you
like, a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley. Take the eggs, a
limber knife and the salt to the stove. Draw the pan over the hottest
part of the fire, turn in the eggs, and dust over a half teaspoonful
of salt. Shake the pan so that the omelet moves and folds itself over
each time you draw the pan towards you. Lift the edge of the omelet,
allowing the thin, uncooked portion of the egg to run underneath.
Shake again, until the omelet is "set." Have ready heated a platter,
fold over the omelet and turn it out. Garnish with parsley, and send
to the table.

If one can make a plain French omelet, it may be converted into many,
many kinds.

OMELET WITH ASPARAGUS TIPS

Make a plain omelet from six eggs, have ready a half pint of cream
sauce, and either a can or a bundle of cooked asparagus. Cut off the
tips, preserving the lower portions for another dish. When the omelet
is turned onto the heated platter, put the asparagus tips at the ends,
cover them with cream sauce, pour the rest of the cream sauce in the
platter, not over the omelet.

OMELET WITH GREEN PEAS

Make a six-egg omelet. Have ready one pint of cooked peas, or a can of
peas, seasoned with salt, pepper and butter. Just before folding the
omelet put a tablespoonful of peas in the center, fold, and turn out
on a heated platter. Pour the remaining quantity of peas around the
omelet, and send at once to the table. If you like, you may pour over,
also, a half pint of cream sauce.

HAVANA OMELET

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and two chopped onions over hot water
until the onion is soft and thoroughly cooked. Peel four tomatoes, cut
them into halves and press out the seeds. Then cut each half into
quarters, add four Spanish peppers cut in strips, a level teaspoonful
of salt and a dash of red pepper. Cook until the tomato is soft. Make
a six-egg omelet. Turn it onto a heated platter, put the tomato
mixture at the ends, and send at once to the table.

OMELET WITH TOMATO SAUCE

Make a plain omelet with six eggs. Pour over a half pint of tomato
sauce, and send to the table.

OMELET WITH OYSTERS

Drain, wash, and drain again twenty-five oysters. Throw them into a
hot saucepan and shake until the gills curl. Rub together two level
tablespoonfuls of flour and two of butter. Drain the oysters, put the
liquor into a half-pint cup, add sufficient milk to fill the cup. Add
this to the butter and flour. When boiling, add the oysters, a level
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of red pepper. Make a six-egg omelet,
turn it onto a heated dish, arrange the oysters around the omelet,
pour over the cream sauce, and send to the table.

OMELET WITH SWEETBREADS

This is a very good way to make sweetbreads do double duty. Boil a
pair of sweetbreads until they are tender. Remove the membrane, cut
them into slices; make a cream sauce. Add the sweetbreads, and, if you
like, a half can of chopped mushrooms. Make a six-egg omelet, arrange
the slices of sweetbread around the omelet and pour over the cream
sauce.

OMELET WITH TOMATOES

Beat six eggs. Add a half pint of rather thick stewed tomatoes, a
level teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Beat the eggs
and tomatoes together, and make precisely the same as a plain omelet.
Do not, however, add water, as the tomatoes answer the purpose.

OMELET WITH HAM

Mix a half cup of chopped ham with the eggs after they have been
beaten with the water, and finish the same as a plain omelet.

OMELET WITH CHEESE

Beat six eggs until they are thoroughly mixed. Add a half cupful of
thick cream, four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, a saltspoonful of
black pepper and a half teaspoonful of salt. Mix and finish the same
as plain omelet.

OMELET WITH FINE HERBS

Beat six eggs until thoroughly mixed. Add a half cupful of cream, a
tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of pepper and
a half teaspoonful of salt. Finish the same as a plain omelet. Serve
on a heated platter and put over a little thin Spanish sauce.

SPANISH OMELET

Beat six eggs. Add six tablespoonfuls of water. Add a saltspoonful of
pepper, a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of
onion juice. Put six thin slices of bacon in the omelet pan. Cook
slowly until all the fat is tried out. Remove the bacon, add a
tablespoonful of chopped onion. Cook until the onion is slightly
brown, turn in the eggs and finish the same as a plain omelet. Turn
onto a heated platter, garnish with red and green peppers, and, if you
like, put two tablespoonfuls of stewed tomatoes at each end of the
omelet.

OMELET JARDINIERE

Chop sufficient chives to make a tablespoonful. Add a tablespoonful of
parsley, a tablespoonful of finely chopped onion, and, if you have it,
a little of the green tops of celery. Mix this with six eggs, add six
tablespoonfuls of water and beat. Make the same as a plain omelet.

OMELET WITH FRESH MUSHROOMS

This is one of the most delicious of all the luncheon dishes. Put two
tablespoonfuls of butter, a pound of mushrooms, sliced, a half cup of
milk and a teaspoonful of salt into a saucepan. Cover and cook slowly
for twenty minutes. Make two six-egg omelets. Turn them, side by side,
on a large heated platter, pour over the fresh mushrooms and serve at
once.

OMELET O'BRIEN

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan with four
tablespoonfuls of chopped onion. Cook until the onion is tender. Then
add four chopped Spanish peppers, two tablespoonfuls of thick tomato,
or one whole raw tomato cut into bits, four sliced cooked okra, a
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper. Let these cook twenty minutes.
Make a six-egg plain omelet, using bacon fat instead of butter for the
cooking. Remove the slices of bacon before they are too hard, as they
must be used for a garnish. Turn the omelet onto a heated platter,
pour around it the pepper mixture, garnish with the bacon, and send to
the table. Canned mushrooms may be added, if desired.

OMELET WITH POTATOES

    4 eggs
    1 cupful of mashed potatoes
    2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
    1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley
    1 level teaspoonful of salt
    1 saltspoonful of pepper

Beat the eggs, without separating, until thoroughly mixed; add them
gradually to the mashed potato, beating all the while; add the salt
and pepper. Put the butter into a good-sized saute or omelet pan; when
hot, turn the ingredients into the pan, and smooth it down with a
pallet knife. Let this cook slowly until nicely browned; fold it over
as you would a plain omelet, and turn onto a heated dish. The parsley
may be sprinkled over the top, or added to the mixture.

SWEET OMELETS

OMELET A LA WASHINGTON

Put three eggs into a bowl, and three into another bowl. Add three
tablespoonfuls of water to each, and beat. Have two omelet pans, in
which you have melted butter. Grate an apple into one bowl, and into
the other put a little salt and pepper. Stand two tablespoonfuls of
jelly in a dish over hot water while you cook the omelets. Proceed as
for plain omelet. The one to which you have added the apple, turn out
on a plate. Before folding the other, put in the center the softened
currant jelly, then fold it and turn it out by the side of the other
omelet. Dust both with powdered sugar, and send at once to the table.
Serve a portion of each.

OMELET WITH RUM

Make a plain omelet with six eggs, turn it on a heated platter. Dust
it with powdered sugar, and score it across the top with a red-hot
poker. Dip four lumps of sugar into Jamaica rum and put them on the
platter. Put over the omelet four tablespoonfuls of rum; touch a
lighted match to the rum, and carry the omelet to the table, burning.
Baste it with the burning rum until the alcohol is entirely burned
off.

SWISS SOUFFLE

Allow one egg to each person. Have everything in readiness. The
maraschino cherries must be drained free from the liquor. Separate the
eggs. Beat the whites until they are stiff. Add a level tablespoonful
of powdered sugar to each white, and beat until dry and glossy. Add
the yolks of three eggs. Mix quickly. Add the grated rind of one lemon
and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Heap this into individual dishes.
Make a tiny little hole in the center and put in a maraschino cherry,
leaving the hole large enough to hold a tablespoonful of the liquor
when the omelet is ready to serve; dust it with powdered sugar, bake
in a quick oven about three minutes, take it from the oven, pour in
the maraschino juice and send _at once_ to the table. These will fall
if baked too much, but when well made and served quickly, is one of
the daintiest of desserts.

OMELET A LA DUCHESSE

This is a sweet baked omelet, and is
served the same as one would serve an omelet
souffle.

    6 eggs
  1/2 cupful of water
  1/2 a lemon's yellow rind, grated
  1/2 cupful of thick cream
  1/2 cupful of granulated sugar
    1 teaspoonful of vanilla or orange flower water
    1 small bit of cinnamon

Put the sugar, water, cinnamon and lemon rind over the fire, boil
until it spins a thread and stand aside to cool. Separate the eggs;
beat the yolks until creamy, and add the cream, then the strained
syrup. Add the vanilla, and when cool fold in the well-beaten whites.
Turn at once into a shallow silver or granite dish, dust thickly with
powdered sugar and bake in a quick oven until brown.

OMELET SOUFFLE

This is, perhaps, one of the most difficult of all dishes to make.
When, however, you have accomplished the art, you have one of the most
satisfactory desserts. Like the preceding recipe, it must be made at
the last moment and sent from the oven directly to the table. The eggs
must be beaten to just the right point and the oven must be very hot.
Get everything in readiness before beginning to make the souffle.

Select a bowl, perfectly clean, and arrange the star tube and pastry
bag, if you are going to use one. If not, get out a baking dish. Sift
six tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Separate six eggs. Put three of
the yolks aside (as you will only use three), and beat the other three
until creamy. Beat the whites until they are very stiff but not dry or
broken. Now add three tablespoonfuls of the sifted powdered sugar.
Beat for fully ten minutes. Then add the beaten yolks, the grated rind
of a lemon and at the last a tablespoonful of lemon juice. Mix
carefully and quickly, but thoroughly. Put four or five tablespoonfuls
of this in the bottom of a platter, or baking dish. Put the remaining
quantity quickly in the pastry bag, and press it out into roses. It is
easier to make it in small rosettes all over the foundation. Dust
quickly with the remaining three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Bake in a
quick oven until golden brown. This will take about five minutes.
Serve immediately. To be just right, this must be hot to the very
center, crisp on top, moist underneath. If baked too long, the moment
the top is touched it will fall, becoming stringy and unpalatable.

Omelet souffles are frequently flavored with rum, which must be mixed
with the sugar. Sometimes they are sprayed with sherry just as they
are taken from the oven. They may be built up into different forms,
and garnished with candied or maraschino cherries, or chopped nuts.

End of Project Gutenberg's Many Ways for Cooking Eggs, by Mrs. S.T. Rorer

Proofreading Team.

MADE-OVER DISHES

BY MRS. S. T. RORER

Author of Mrs. Rorer's New Cook Book, Philadelphia Cook Book, Bread and
Bread-Making, and other Valuable Works on Cookery.

Revised and Enlarged Edition

CONTENTS

Preface
Stock
Cooked Fish
Meat
  Beef--Uncooked
  Beef--Cooked
  Mutton--Uncooked
  Mutton--Cooked
  Chicken--Uncooked
  Chicken--Cooked
Game
Bread
Eggs
Potatoes
  Cold Boiled
Cheese
Sauces
Salads
Cereals
Vegetables
Fruits
Sour Milk and Cream

PREFACE

Wise forethought, which means economy, stands as the first of domestic
duties. Poverty in no way affects skill in the preparation of food. The
object of cooking is to draw out the proper flavor of each individual
ingredient used in the preparation of a dish, and render it more easy of
digestion. Admirable flavorings are given by the little leftovers of
vegetables that too often find their way into the garbage bucket.

Economical marketing does not mean the purchase of inferior articles at a
cheap price, but of a small quantity of the best materials found in the
market; these materials to be wisely and economically used. Small quantity
and no waste, just enough and not a piece too much, is a good rule to
remember. In roasts and steaks, however, there will be, in spite of
careful buying, bits left over, that, if economically used, may be
converted into palatable, sightly and wholesome dishes for the next day's
lunch or supper.

Never purchase the so-called tender meat for stews, Hamburg steaks or
soups; nor should you purchase a round or shoulder steak for broiling, nor
an old chicken for roasting. Select a fowl for a fricassee, a chicken for
roasting, and a so-called spring chicken for broiling. Each has its own
individual price and place.

Save for stock, every bone, whether beef, mutton, poultry or game, as well
as all the juices that are left in the meat carving dishes on the table,
and the water in which meats are boiled and in which certain vegetables
are boiled. Into this storehouse--for such a stock pot is--will go also
the tough ends from the rib roasts, which would become tasteless and dry
if roasted; the bits that are taken from the French chops; the bone that
is left on the plate from the sirloin steak; and every piece of the
carcass left on the general carving plate of all sorts of game and
poultry. After the meat has been taken from the roast, these bones will
also be used.

STOCK

In all good cooking there is a constant demand for a half pint or a pint
of stock. Brown sauce and tomato sauce, in fact, all meat sauces, are
decidedly better made from stock than water, and as it comes to every
household without the additional cost of a penny, there is no excuse
whatever for being without it. Save the bones collected on Saturday,
Sunday and Monday. Chicken and veal bones may be kept together; beef,
mutton and ham in another lot; one makes a white stock, the other brown.
If the quantity is small, put them all together. Crack the bones, put them
in the bottom of a large soup kettle, cover with cold water, bring slowly
to boiling point and skim. Push the kettle to the back part of the stove,
where the stock may simmer for at least three hours, then add an onion
into which you have stuck twelve cloves, a bay leaf, a few celery tops, or
a little celery seed, and a carrot cut into slices; simmer gently for
another hour and strain. Tuesdays and Saturdays are the best days for
making stock, as they are the days on which you have long, continuous
fires; Tuesdays for ironing purposes; Saturdays for bread baking; in this
way you will economize in coal, heat and time.

In making tomato soup, to each pint of tomatoes add a pint of this stock
instead of water; or the stock may be simply heated, nicely seasoned and
used as clear soup. By adding a little cooked rice or macaroni, you will
have a rice or a macaroni soup.

In cream soups, where stock takes the place of water, less milk gives
equal, perhaps better, results. For instance, in cream of celery soup,
cover the celery with cold stock instead of water, using a quart instead
of a pint of water, and then use only a pint of milk, having in the end
the same quantity of a much more tasty soup at a less cost. One soon
learns that all made-over dishes are more savory where stock is used in
place of water. If peas, beans or cabbage are being cooked, this water may
be added to that in which beef or mutton has been boiled, the whole
reduced carefully by rapid boiling, strained and put aside for use.

COOKED FISH

Canapés

Cold boiled fish makes excellent canapés. To each half pint of fish allow
six squares of toasted bread. If you have any cold boiled potatoes left
over, add milk to them, make them hot and put them into a pastry bag.
Decorate the edge of the toast with these mashed potatoes, using a small
star tube; put them back in the oven until light brown. Make the fish
into a creamed fish. Rub the butter and flour together, add a half pint of
milk, add the fish and a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. Dish the
centers on top of the toast with this creamed fish and send at once to the
table. A very little fish here makes a good showing, and is one of the
nicest of the hot canapés.

Baked Sardines

After sardines have once been opened it is best to remove them from the
can and make them into some dish for the next meal. They may be broiled
and served on toast, or made with bread crumbs into sardine balls and
fried, or baked. To bake them, stir the oil from the can into a half
cupful of water, add a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a half
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Put the fish into a baking pan,
run them into the oven until very hot, then dish them, baste them with the
sauce and send them at once to the table.

Fish Croquettes

Any cold boiled fish that is left over may be made into croquettes. To
each cupful of the cold fish allow one level tablespoonful of butter, two
level tablespoonfuls of flour and a half cupful of milk. Rub the butter
and flour together, add the milk; when boiling take from the fire. Add to
the fish a level teaspoonful of salt, a dash of black pepper, a
tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a few drops of onion juice; mix this
carefully with the paste and turn out to cool. When cold, form into small
cylinders, dip in beaten egg and fry in deep hot fat.

Fish à la Crême

One pint of cold boiled fish, mixed with a half pint of white sauce. Turn
this into a baking dish and brown. Or when the two are carefully heated
together, serve in either ramekin dishes or in a border of browned mashed
potatoes.

MEAT

As meat is the most costly and extravagant of all articles of food, it
behooves the housewife to save all left-overs and work them over into
other dishes. The so-called inferior pieces--not inferior because they
contain less nourishment, but inferior because the demand for such meat is
less--should be used for all dishes that are chopped before cooking, as
Hamburg steaks, curry balls, kibbee, or for stews, ragouts, pot roasts and
various dishes where a sauce is used to hide the inferiority and ugliness
of the dish. We have no occasion here to spend money on good looks.

If one purchases meat for soup, the leg and shin are the better parts.
This, however, is not necessary in the ordinary family, as there are
always sufficient bones left over for daily stock. All meat left over from
beef tea, tasteless as it is, may be nicely seasoned and made into curries
or into pressed meat, giving again a nice dish for lunch or supper.
Remember, that where the flavoring of the beef has been drawn out into the
water, as in making beef tea, another decided flavor must be added to make
the made-over dish palatable. For this reason, curries, pressed meats,
served with either Worcestershire or tomato sauce, are chosen.

Cold mutton may be made into pilau, hashed on toast with tomato sauce,
hashed with caper sauce, made into escalloped mutton, barbecued mutton,
casserole, or macaroni timbale; all sightly dishes, quite handsome enough
to place before the choicest guest. Spiced meats, as beef _à la
mode_, may be served cold with cream horseradish sauce and aspic jelly.
If warm, they will be made into ragouts, or some form of dish with a brown
or tomato sauce. It is well to bear in mind that white meats will be
served with white or yellow sauces; dark meats with brown or tomato
sauces. The coarse tops of the sirloin steak, the tough end of the rump
steak, if broiled, cannot possibly be eaten, as the dry heat renders them
difficult of mastication. Cut them off before the steak is broiled, and
put them aside to use for Hamburg steaks, curry balls, timbale or
cannelon, making a new and sightly dish from that which would otherwise
have been thrown away.

If you use ham, and have had a piece boiled, after the even slices are
taken off, chip the remaining tender pieces for frizzled ham, making it as
frizzled beef is made. The bits around the bone that cannot possibly be
sliced, will be chopped and made into potted or deviled ham. Throw the
bone into the stock pot.

A meat chopper or grinder, which costs but a dollar and a half or two
dollars, will save its price in the utility of these scraps in less than a
month.

The water in which you boil a leg of mutton, chicken, turkey or a fresh
beef's tongue, or such vegetables as string beans, peas, rice, macaroni or
barley, put aside and use in place of plain water to cover the bones for
stock-making. The water in which cabbage is boiled should be saved alone
and used the next day for a soup Crécy; the flavor of the cabbage, with a
carrot that has been slightly browned in butter, makes a delightful soup
without the addition of meat.

BEEF--UNCOOKED

The uncooked tough bits or pieces of beef may be made into any of the
following dishes:

Kibbee

Chop uncooked tough meat very fine; put it twice through a grinder. To
each pound, allow a tablespoonful of grated onion, a tablespoonful of
chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, just a dash of pepper, and a half
cup of toasted piñon nuts. Form into balls about the size of an egg,
stand in a baking pan, add a half pint of strained tomatoes, a
tablespoonful of butter, and bake slowly thirty minutes, basting three or
four times. If more than one pound of meat is used, all the ingredients
must be increased accordingly.

Hamburg Steaks

The genuine Hamburg steaks are rich in onion and very rich in fatty
matter, too much so to be wholesome; so we will modify them, that they may
be eaten even by dyspeptics or persons with weak digestion. Put twice
through a meat chopper the tough ends of steaks or bits of the round. To
each pound of this meat allow a half teaspoonful of celery seed, a
teaspoonful of grated onion. Form into thick even cakes, being sure that
the center and sides are the same thickness. These may now be broiled
over a clear fire, or under the gas lights in your gas broiler, or they
may be dropped into a thoroughly heated iron pan. As soon as browned on
one side, turn and brown the other. If the steaks are an inch thick, it
will take eight minutes for perfect cooking. An exceedingly satisfactory
way is to brown them quickly over a hot fire, then put the pan in the oven
and allow them to cook for five minutes. Dust with salt, season with a
little butter and pepper, and send to the table on a very hot dish; or
serve with brown or tomato sauce. If they have been cooked over the fire,
or in the oven, put a tablespoonful of butter into the pan in which they
were cooked, add a tablespoonful of flour, a half cup of stock, and a half
cup of strained tomatoes. When boiling, add a teaspoonful of salt, a dash
of pepper, and pour over the steaks.

Cannelon

Put twice through the meat chopper one pound of tough meat, season with a
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and, if you like, a little celery
seed or chopped celery top; take this chopped meat into your hands, and
form it into a roll about four inches in diameter and six inches long.
Roll this in a piece of oiled paper, put it in a baking pan, bake in a
quick oven thirty minutes, basting the paper with melted butter three or
four times. When done, remove the paper, dish the cannelon, and pour
around plain tomato sauce.

Brown stew

Cut any left-over pieces of uncooked tough meat into cubes of one inch.
Put a couple of tablespoonfuls of suet into a saucepan; when rendered out,
remove the cracklings. Dust the bits of meat with a tablespoonful of
flour, throw them into the hot suet, and shake until brown. Draw the meat
to one side, and add to the fat in the pan a second tablespoonful of
flour; mix, add one pint of water or stock, stir until boiling, add a
teaspoonful of salt, a bay leaf, slice of onion, a teaspoonful of browning
or kitchen bouquet; cover and simmer gently until the meat is tender,
about an hour and a half. The proportions given here are for one pound of
beef. This may be served plain, or in a border of rice, or with dumplings.
If dumplings, put a pint of flour into a bowl, add a teaspoonful of salt
and one of baking powder; mix thoroughly and add sufficient milk to just
moisten; drop by spoonfuls over the top of the stew, cover the saucepan
and cook for ten minutes. Do not lift cover during the ten minutes or the
dumplings will fall.

Beef Timbale

Chop fine any left-over tough bits of lean beef. Cook together for a
moment a gill of strained tomatoes and one cup of bread crumbs; add to the
meat, rub to a smooth paste, season with a quarter of a teaspoonful of
celery seed, a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper; mix, and
then stir in carefully the well-beaten whites of two eggs; fill into
custard cups, stand in a pan of boiling water, and cook in a moderate oven
twenty minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. This recipe is for one pound of
beef.

BEEF--COOKED

Ragout

Cut pieces of cold boiled or roasted beef into cubes of one inch; to each
quart of this allow two tablespoonfuls of butter, two of flour and a pint
of stock. Rub the butter and flour together, add the stock, stir until
boiling; add a tablespoonful of onion juice, a teaspoonful of browning or
kitchen bouquet, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of tomato catsup,
a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; add the meat; stand over the back part
of the stove until thoroughly hot; serve on a heated platter garnished
with triangular pieces of toasted bread. A few left-over olives,
mushrooms, or even a chopped truffle, may be added.

Bresleau

Chop sufficient cold cooked meat to make one pint, season it with a
teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Put a half
cup of stock or water, two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs and a
tablespoonful of butter over the fire; when hot, add to it the meat; take
from the fire and stir in carefully two well-beaten eggs. Put this in
greased custard cups, stand them in a baking pan half filled with boiling
water, and bake in a moderate oven fifteen or twenty minutes; serve with
tomato sauce or sauce Béchamel.

Beef Croquettes

Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to make one pint; add to it a teaspoonful
of salt, a teaspoonful of onion juice, a dash of cayenne, a quarter of a
teaspoonful of pepper, and a grating of nutmeg. Put a half pint of milk
over the fire. Rub together one tablespoonful of butter and two
tablespoonfuls of flour, add them to the hot milk, stir until you have a
smooth thick paste; take from the fire; mix with it the meat, and turn out
to cool. When cold, form into croquettes. Beat one egg, add to it a
tablespoonful of warm water, and beat again. Dip the croquettes first into
this, then roll them in bread crumbs, and fry them in smoking hot fat.
They may be served plain or with tomato sauce.

Beef Steak Pudding

Cut cold cooked steak into cubes of a half inch. To each pint of these
allow a half pint of milk, six tablespoonfuls of flour, two eggs, and two
tablespoonfuls of chopped suet. Put the flour into a bowl; beat the eggs,
add to them the milk, then add gradually to the flour; make perfectly
smooth. Cover the bottom of a baking dish with a layer of the batter, put
in the bits of steak, sprinkle over the chopped suet, then a dusting of
salt and pepper, and, if you like, a few drops of onion juice; now put
over the remaining quantity of the batter, and bake in a moderately quick
oven an hour and a half.

Potato Dumplings

Take any pieces of cold cooked meat, chop them fine, season carefully with
salt, pepper, chopped parsley or celery. To each pint allow two
tablespoonfuls of melted butter. For the crust you may use left-over cold
mashed potatoes; if so, add a little milk and stir them over the fire
until smooth and hot. If potatoes are boiled for the purpose, add salt,
butter and milk, and beat them until light. Line to the depth of one inch,
a baking dish, put the meat in the center, cover the top with mashed
potatoes, smooth, brush with milk and bake in a moderate oven a half hour.

Gobbits

Scrape and cut into fancy pieces one good-sized carrot and one turnip. Put
these into a saucepan, cover with a pint of stock, and cook slowly until
the vegetables are tender. Have ready, cut into cubes of one inch,
sufficient cold cooked beef to make a quart; add it to the vegetables,
simmer a few minutes until the meat is hot; have ready also one cup of
rice that has been boiled thirty minutes in clear water, drained and
dried. Arrange this in a border around the meat dish. Put two
tablespoonfuls of butter and flour into a saucepan; mix. Drain the liquor
from the meat and vegetables, which should now measure one pint; if not,
add sufficient stock to make a pint; add this to the butter and flour, and
stir until boiling. Dish the meat and vegetables in the centre of the rice
border. Take the sauce from the fire, add a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of
pepper and the yolks of two eggs. Reheat for just an instant, strain over
the meat mixture, dust with chopped parsley, and serve at once.

Beef Fritters

Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to make one pint; add to it a teaspoonful
of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Beat two eggs until
light, add to them a half pint of water or stock; stir into this one and a
half cups of flour, beat until smooth, add a teaspoonful of baking powder
and the meat. Drop this by spoonfuls into smoking hot fat; cook about
three minutes, drain on brown paper, and serve either on a folded napkin,
or in a dish with tomato sauce.

Minced Beef on Toast

Take the meat from between the bones of a rib roast, or any little bits
that would not be serviceable in other dishes, chop them fine, and to each
pint, allow one tablespoonful of butter, one of flour and a half pint of
tomatoes or stock. Mix the butter and flour together, then add the
tomatoes strained or stock; when boiling add the meat, and a palatable
seasoning of salt and pepper. Stand the mixture over hot water until
smoking hot, and serve on squares of toasted bread.

Barbecue of Cold Beef

Cut cold-roasted or boiled beef into thin slices. Put into your saucepan
two tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of catsup and two
tablespoonfuls of sherry; stir until hot; drop the slices of beef into
this, cover the saucepan, shake occasionally for a minute, until the beef
is smoking hot, and send at once to the table. This is exceedingly nice
made and served from a chafing dish. This dish may be made by omitting the
sherry and using a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a teaspoonful of
mushroom catsup and two tablespoonfuls of stock.

Salt Beef Hash No. 1

Cold cooked corned beef is best made into hash. Chop sufficient to make
one pint. Chop the same quantity of cold boiled potatoes; mix the two
together, put them into a saucepan, add a half pint of stock, a
tablespoonful of butter, teaspoonful of onion juice and a quarter of a
teaspoonful of black or white pepper. Stir carefully and constantly until
the mixture reaches the boiling point. Serve at once on buttered toast.

Salt Beef Hash No. 2

Chop enough cold cooked corned beef to make a pint; chop the same quantity
of cold boiled potatoes; mix the two together. Put them into a stewing
pan, add one pint of stock; simmer for just a moment; take from the fire,
add two eggs well beaten, a dash of pepper; turn the mixture into a baking
dish and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes.

Rechauffee of Beef

Cut any left-over cold beef into thin slices. Cut into slices three cold
boiled potatoes. Peel two tomatoes, cut them into halves, squeeze out the
seeds, and then cut the tomatoes into small bits. Chop one good sized
onion. Put a layer of tomato in the bottom of a baking dish, then beef,
then a seasoning of onion, salt and pepper, and if you have it, a little
chopped celery, then potatoes, then again tomatoes, beef, and so continue
until you have used the materials, having the last layer tomatoes. Dust
the top with bread crumbs, put over a few bits of butter and bake a half
hour in a moderately quick oven.

Steak Pudding

Cut any cold left-over steak into thin slices, and cut these slices into
bits one inch long. Put one quart of flour in a bowl, and add to it one
cupful of chopped uncooked suet. Chop the suet and flour together for a
minute, add a level teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of black pepper,
and sufficient cold water to just moisten. Take the dough on the board and
roll it out into a sheet; make it a little larger than an ordinary pie
dish. Season the bits of meat, put them on one-half the sheet, lay over
the top twelve good fat oysters, brush the under half of the dough with
the white of egg or water; fold over the other half and make two or three
holes in the top. Put it in a cheese cloth and steam for two hours. Remove
the cloth, brush the pudding with the yolk of the egg and bake in a quick
oven a half hour.

Panada of Beef

Chop sufficient cold cooked beef to make one pint; season it with a
teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a dash of
pepper. Put this in the bottom of a baking dish. Crush six Uneeda
biscuits, pour over them a half pint of milk, let them stand a minute or
two, add one egg, well beaten, a half teaspoonful of salt and a
saltspoonful of pepper. Pour this over the beef and bake in a moderate
oven twenty minutes to a half hour.

Other meats may be substituted for beef.

MUTTON--UNCOOKED

Tough pieces of uncooked mutton may be put twice through the meat chopper
and used for curry balls or for stuffing for tomatoes or egg plant; in
fact, in almost any way that one would serve uncooked beef. Having fewer
pieces of uncooked scrap mutton than of beef, we are less accustomed to
seeing them used.

Curry Balls

Put any pieces of tough uncooked mutton twice through the meat chopper;
season the meat with salt, pepper and onion juice. Form into little balls
the size of an English walnut. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a
saucepan; when hot, throw the balls into the butter, and shake until
carefully browned. Lift them from the saucepan, and to the butter in the
pan add a teaspoonful of curry, a tablespoonful of flour, mix and add a
half pint of stock; stir carefully until boiling; pour this over the
balls, cook, slowly for twenty minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of lemon
juice and serve in a border of rice. Cocoanut milk may be used instead of
stock.

MUTTON--COOKED

While mutton belongs to the red meats, when carefully cooked it may be
used in many ways in which you would use chicken or veal. Capers and
tomato, with a slight flavoring of mint, are more agreeable with mutton
than with almost any other meats.

Bobotee

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to make a pint. Put two tablespoonfuls
of butter and one onion sliced into a saucepan; stir until the onion is
slightly brown; then add a half pint of stock or milk and four
tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. Stand this on the back of the stove for
about five minutes while you blanch and chop fine a dozen almonds. Add
these to the meat, then add a teaspoonful of curry powder, and a
teaspoonful of salt. Beat three eggs until light, stir them into the meat,
then turn the whole into the saucepan. Rub the bottom of the baking dish
first with a clove of garlic, then sprinkle over a tablespoonful of lemon
juice and put here and there a few bits of butter; put on this the
mixture, and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. Serve in the dish in
which it is baked, and pass with it plain boiled rice.

Boudins

Chop sufficient cold cooked mutton to make a pint. Put a half cup of
stock, two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs and a tablespoonful of butter
over the fire. When hot, take from the fire, add the meat and three eggs
well beaten; add a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Put the
mixture into greased custard cups, stand in a baking pan half filled with
boiling water, and cook in a moderate oven fifteen to twenty minutes.
Serve with sauce Béchamel. The bottom of the cups may be garnished with
chopped mushrooms, capers, or chopped truffles, or dusted thickly with
chopped parsley.

Klopps

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to make a pint; add to it a half pint
of bread crumbs and sufficient white of egg to bind the whole together;
add a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of white pepper. Form into balls the
size of English walnuts; drop into a kettle of boiling water; pull the
kettle to one side of the fire where it cannot possibly boil, and cook the
klopps slowly for five or six minutes. When done they will float on the
surface. Lift, drain carefully, put on to a heated dish, pour over cream
celery or cream oyster sauce, and serve with them peas and boiled rice.

Curry of Mutton

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and one sliced onion into a pan; cook
slowly until the onion is perfectly tender; add one clove of garlic
mashed, a teaspoonful of curry powder and a teaspoonful of turmeric; mix
thoroughly, add a half pint of stock, or, better, cocoanut milk; stir
until boiling, add one quart of cold cooked mutton chopped fine; heat
thoroughly, add a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and pour at once into a
platter that has been garnished with boiled rice.

Mutton with Anchovy

Chop sufficient cold boiled mutton to make one pint; mash fine three
anchovies. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan, add one
sliced onion, cook until the onion is soft and yellow, add a clove of
garlic mashed, add to this the anchovies and a half pint of stock; simmer
gently for fifteen minutes, and press through a sieve. Add a tablespoonful
of capers, two or three leaves of mint that have been bruised, and the
mutton chopped fine. Heat over boiling water for fifteen minutes, and
serve on squares of toasted bread. This may be served plain or the top of
each piece may be capped with a carefully poached egg.

Pilau

Cut into bits any pieces of cold cooked mutton; put them into a saucepan,
cover with water, add a grated onion, a bay leaf and two or three cardamom
seeds. Sprinkle over a half cup of rice that has been carefully washed;
cover the kettle and simmer slowly until the rice is tender. Dish the
mutton, putting the rice over the top, cover the whole with a nicely made
tomato sauce, and send at once to the table.

Mutton Salad

Any pieces of cold-roasted or boiled mutton may be cut into dice and used
for an ordinary mutton salad. At serving time arrange this neatly on
lettuce leaves, or any accessible green; season with salt and pepper, and
cover with mayonnaise dressing to which has been added a tablespoonful of
capers.

Where celery, lettuce or other fresh greens cannot be procured, canned
asparagus may be mixed with the mutton or may be served with it as a
garnish; giving an exceedingly agreeable accompaniment. Where asparagus
cannot be obtained, a can of peas may be drained, washed, drained again,
and added to the mutton before it is mixed with the mayonnaise dressing,
or the mutton may be mixed with mayonnaise and filled into tomatoes that
have been peeled and the centers scooped out. Stand each on a little nest
of lettuce leaves or on a bunch of cress, and garnish the top with capers.

French Lamb Stew

1 quart of bits of cold left-over lamb or mutton
1 pint of green peas
1 quart of water
3 stalks of mint
1 teaspoonful of onion juice
1 teaspoonful of salt
1 saltspoonful of pepper

Put the lamb, water and all the seasoning into a saucepan. Shell and wash
the peas, put them over the top, cover the pan and bring quickly to a
boil, lift the lid, and boil rapidly twenty minutes until the peas are
tender. Rub together the butter and flour, stir them carefully into the
stew, bring again to boiling point and serve.

Lamb Stew with Tomatoes

Follow the preceding recipe, using a quart of strained tomatoes in place
of a quart of water.

CHICKEN--UNCOOKED

In purchasing a chicken for timbale, select a large one, but not an old
fowl. After the chicken has been drawn, remove the white meat, which is
used uncooked for timbales. The dark meat may be cooked at once and
utilized for boudins, croquettes, salad, cecils, creamed hash, or served
on toast with sauce Bordelaise, or used in chafing dish next day. Or if
you prefer to use it raw, devil the legs and use the bones for soup.

Timbale

Chop fine the uncooked white meat of a chicken; this should weigh a half
pound. Then rub it with the back of a wooden spoon against the side of a
bowl until perfectly smooth. Put one cup of white bread crumbs and a half
cup of milk over the fire; stir until boiling; when cold, rub this
thoroughly with the meat, and press it through an ordinary flour sieve.
Stir into it carefully the well-beaten whites of five eggs, add a
teaspoonful of salt, a dash of white pepper; fill into greased timbale
cups, stand in a baking pan of boiling water, cover with oiled paper, and
bake in a moderate oven fifteen to twenty minutes. The bottoms of the cups
may be garnished with chopped truffle, chopped mushrooms, chopped parsley,
or nicely cooked green peas. Serve with the timbales either a plain cream
sauce or a cream mushroom sauce. Peas are the usual accompaniment.

Or the timbale molds may be lined with this mixture, and the centers
filled with creamed mushrooms; put enough of the timbale mixture over the
top to hold in the stuffing; they will then be cooked and served in the
usual manner.

Deviled Chicken Legs

Carefully remove the bones from the legs of an uncooked chicken. To a half
cup of bread crumbs add twelve chopped almonds, two tablespoonfuls of
toasted piñon nuts, a tablespoonful of parsley, a half teaspoonful of salt
and a dash of cayenne; moisten with two tablespoonfuls of butter. Stuff
this into the spaces from which you have taken the bones, tie the legs top
and bottom to keep in the stuffing. Place the bones from the carcass of
the chicken in the soup kettle, cover with cold water, and when the water
reaches boiling point place the legs on top of the bones and cook
continuously for two hours. They may be served hot with sauce, or cold,
cut into thin slices garnished with aspic.

English Chicken Balls

Chop fine the dark meat left over from timbales, add a half can of finely
chopped mushrooms, a teaspoonful of salt, a half teaspoonful of pepper, a
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a dozen blanched and finely chopped
almonds and one raw egg; mix thoroughly and form into balls the size of an
English walnut. Arrange these over the bottom of a saucepan, cover with
stock, add a bay leaf, a slice of onion and of carrot; cook slowly a half
to three-quarters of an hour; drain, saving the stock. Dish the balls in
the center of a platter, put around the edge a row of potato bullets,
outside of that small triangles of toast. Put a tablespoonful of butter
and one of flour into a saucepan; mix, add a half pint of stock in which
the balls were cooked, stir until boiling, take from the fire, add the
yolk of one egg beaten with two tablespoonfuls of cream; add a half
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper; strain this over the balls and
serve.

CHICKEN--COOKED

The remains of cold chicken or turkey may be used in precisely the same
manner, or made into croquettes, using the same rule as for beef
croquettes. With an accompaniment of mayonnaise of celery, or mayonnaise
of tomato, they make an extremely good luncheon dish. For an evening
entertainment they may be simply garnished with cooked peas. Meat
croquettes are usually made into pyramid forms; they may, however, be made
into cylinders. Boudins of chicken or turkey are also exceedingly nice.

Creamed Hash on Toast

This is one of the tastiest of all the warmed-over chicken dishes. Chop
the chicken fine, and to each pint allow one tablespoonful of butter, one
of flour and a half pint of milk. Rub the butter and flour together, add
the milk, stir over the fire until boiling, season the meat with a
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper, add to the milk sauce, and stir
over hot water for fifteen minutes. The flavoring may be changed by adding
three or four chopped mushrooms, or, if you have it, a chopped truffle;
but it is exceedingly good plain. Heap this on squares of nicely toasted
bread, serve at once, or you may garnish the tops with carefully poached
eggs.

Casserole

Wash a half cup of rice; throw it into boiling water, boil for twenty
minutes, drain, add a half cup of milk, a tablespoonful of butter, a level
teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper; stir until
you have a rather smooth thick paste. Brush custard cups, line them to the
depth of a half inch with this rice mixture; make a plain milk sauce, as
in preceding recipe, and add a pint of seasoned chicken. Fill the space in
the rice cups with this cream mixture, put over a covering of rice, stand
the cups in a pan of boiling water, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty
to twenty-five minutes. Turn these carefully on a heated dish, pour
around cream sauce and serve. They may be garnished with green peas,
mushrooms or truffles. While this is an exceedingly economical dish it is
at the same time an elegant one.

Indian Hash

Chop fine sufficient cold-roasted duck, chicken, or turkey to make one
pint. Cut a good-sized onion into very thin slices. Pare, core, and chop
fine one apple. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, add the
apple and the onion; toss until brown, then add not more than an eighth of
a teaspoonful of powdered mace, a half teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful
of curry powder, a tablespoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of sugar; mix and
add a half pint of stock or water; now add the meat, stir constantly until
smoking hot, then stand over hot water, covering closely for twenty
minutes. Add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and serve in a border of
rice.

Mock Terrapin or à la Newburg

Pieces of cold-roasted chicken, turkey or duck may be used for making
terrapin or à la Newburg. Cut the meat into pieces of fairly good size;
measure, and to each pint of this allow a half pint of sauce; rub together
two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of flour. Rub to a smooth paste the
hard boiled yolks of three eggs; add to the butter and flour a gill and a
half (three-quarters of a cup) of milk; stir until smoking hot. Do not
let the mixture boil; then add this a little at a time to the yolks of the
eggs, rubbing until you have a perfectly smooth golden sauce; press this
through a sieve. Before beginning the sauce, sprinkle the chicken with
four tablespoonfuls of sherry or Madeira, the latter preferable. Add the
chicken to the sauce, stir until each piece is thoroughly covered; add a
half teaspoonful of salt, just a drop of extract of nutmeg or a grating of
nutmeg, an eighth of a spoon of white pepper (black pepper, of course, may
be used); cover and stand over hot water, stirring occasionally until the
mixture is smoking hot.

Chicken Supréme

This may be made from either chicken or turkey cut into dice; add an equal
quantity of canned mushrooms; for instance, to one pint of cold chicken,
add one can of mushrooms. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of
flour in a saucepan; mix without browning, then add two cups (one pint) of
chicken stock; stir constantly until boiling, add two tablespoonfuls of
thick cream, and the yolks of four eggs; strain, add the chicken and
mushrooms, a level teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of
white pepper, ten drops of celery extract or just a little celery seed.
Stand this mixture over hot water, watching carefully until it is
thoroughly heated; remember that any boiling will curdle the egg. Serve
this on a heated dish either in a border of rice or garnished with squares
of toasted bread. This mixture is also served in bread patês, or it may be
served in chicken muffin cases.

Chicken Cutlets

Chop cold cooked chicken or turkey very fine; to each pint allow a half
can of mushrooms chopped fine. Put one tablespoonful of butter and two of
flour into a saucepan, mix, and add a half pint of chicken stock. When
smooth and thick take from the fire, add the yolks of two eggs, the
chicken and mushrooms, a teaspoonful of salt, quarter of a teaspoonful of
pepper, a teaspoonful of onion juice, a grating of nutmeg and a
tablespoonful of chopped parsley; stir over the fire for a moment; turn
out to cool; when cold form into cutlet-shaped croquettes, dip in egg and
bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. These may be served plain, with
a garnish of peas, or they may be served with sauce Béchamel.

Duck Bordelaise

Portions of cold duck may be cut into convenient pieces, sprinkled with
wine, about four tablespoonfuls to the pint, and allowed to stand while
you make sauce Bordelaise. Put one tablespoonful of butter and one of
flour into a saucepan; mix, add a teaspoonful of browning or kitchen
bouquet and a half pint of stock; stir until boiling, add a tablespoonful
of grated onion, a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and, if you
have it, a tablespoonful of finely-chopped ham; cook for five minutes and
strain; add three or four fresh mushrooms or a half dozen canned mushrooms
and the duck. Stand over boiling water until the mixture is thoroughly
heated. Send to the table garnished with triangles of toasted bread. A few
stoned olives or sliced olives may be added in the place of the mushrooms,
and you would then have salmi of duck.

GAME

Bits of cold broiled or roasted game may be chopped very fine, rubbed to a
smooth paste either in a bowl or mortar. To each half pint of this mixture
allow two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce thoroughly rubbed with the game,
and the unbeaten white of one egg; press the whole mixture through an
ordinary flour sieve; then stir in the well-beaten whites of two eggs,
four mushrooms chopped almost to a powder, and a seasoning of salt and
pepper. Fill this into little greased molds or cups; the cups may be
garnished with chopped truffle or mushrooms, or served plain. Fill in the
mixture, stand the cups in a baking pan half filled with boiling water;
cook in a moderate oven twenty minutes. The little bomb-shaped molds are
the better sort to use for these. Serve with brown sauce either plain or
flavored with mushrooms.

BREAD

The better way is to cut just sufficient bread for each meal so that there
will be really no left-overs. If, however, a few slices are accidentally
left, put them aside in a can or jar, never in the regular bread box with
the bread; one or two slices will invariably be missed until sufficiently
old to mold and contaminate the remaining quantity of bread in the box,
and then, too, they are more apt to accumulate in this way than in a
separate box. The neater pieces may be used for toast for breakfast or
lunch or supper. The next best pieces use for bread and butter custard;
the crusts dry, roll and put aside to be ready for breading articles to be
fried, or for escalloped dishes. In this way every piece, no matter what
its condition, will be utilized.

Bread and Butter Custard

Beat two eggs, without separating, until light, add four tablespoonfuls of
sugar and a pint of milk, mix and add a grating of nutmeg; turn into an
ordinary baking dish, cover the top with buttered bread, butter side up;
bake in a moderate oven just as you would a cup custard, until you can put
a spoon handle down in the center of the custard and it will come out free
from milk.

Little Puddings à la Grand Belle

Roll slices of stale bread into fine crumbs. Brush small custard cups, or
a border mold with melted butter, sprinkle over a few currants or raisins,
or any fruit that you may have left over. Fill the cups with crumbs. Beat
three eggs, without separating, until light; add three tablespoonfuls of
sugar, a teaspoonful of vanilla and a pint of milk. Pour this carefully
over the bread crumbs, let them stand for about five minutes until the
mixture has been soaked up and the bread crumbs soft; then stand in a pan
of boiling water, cover with oiled paper and cook in the oven a half hour.
Turn out and serve hot with egg sauce.

Bread Croquettes

Rub sufficient stale bread to make one quart of crumbs; add four
tablespoonfuls of sugar, a half cup of cleaned currants, or any fruit that
you have left over, and a grating of nutmeg; sprinkle over a teaspoonful
of vanilla, and add sufficient beaten eggs (about three) to moisten the
crumbs. Form into small cylinder-shaped croquettes, dip in egg and roll in
bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. Serve hot with sugar sauce.

Bread Muffins

Cover a quart of bits of bread that have been broken apart, with one pint
of milk; soak for fifteen minutes, then with a spoon beat until you have a
smooth paste; add the yolks of three eggs, a tablespoonful of melted
butter and one cup of flour that has been sifted with a heaping
teaspoonful of baking powder. Fold in carefully the well-beaten whites of
the eggs, and bake in muffin pans in a quick oven about twenty minutes.

Muffins left from breakfast may be pulled apart and toasted for lunch or
supper. Pieces of stale sponge cake, in fact, any stale cake may be used
for cabinet puddings, for cream puddings, or for croquettes.

EGGS

The soft boiled eggs that are left from breakfast will be at once hard
boiled, put into the refrigerator, and when four have accumulated, use
them for Beauregard eggs, à la Newburg dishes or garnishes. Poached eggs
that are left over may be dropped at once into boiling water, cooked
slowly until perfectly hard, and put aside for chopping, to use as a
garnish for a curry or some vegetable dish with which they will nicely
blend.

The tablespoonful or two of stewed tomatoes left in the dish from dinner
will be put aside to use for tomato omelet, or they may be added to the
roasted beef gravy for dinner, converting a plain homely gravy into one of
better flavor. The half cup of peas may be added to to-morrow's consommé,
or used as a garnish for the breakfast omelet. The green portions of
celery will be put aside for stewing; the tender white part for serving
raw; while the leaves and roots will be used for flavoring soups and
sauces.

The yolk of egg left over, if put into a cup or saucer will, in less than
two hours, become hard, dry and useless. This same yolk dropped into a cup
half filled with cold water will keep for several days, and may be used
for mayonnaise or added to a sauce. When needed, it may be carefully
lifted with a spoon and used the same as a fresh yolk.

Whites of Eggs

The yolks of eggs are quite easily disposed of, as sauces frequently call
for the yolk of one or two eggs; then they may be used for mayonnaise
dressing, or added to various dishes. The whites of eggs, however,
accumulate. One of the ways of getting hard-boiled yolks, without wasting
the whites, is to separate the white and the yolk before the egg is
cooked; drop the yolk down into a kettle of boiling water; then stand on
the back part of the stove for fifteen or twenty minutes until it is hard.
The yolk will cook in this way just as well as with the white in the
shell. Now, you have the uncooked whites, which may be used for a simple
white cake, apple float, soufflés, plain or with fruit.

Beauregard Eggs

Separate the whites and yolks of five hard-boiled eggs, press through an
ordinary fruit press, or chop very fine. Make a half pint of cream sauce;
when boiling, add the whites of the eggs. Have ready on a heated platter
five squares of toasted bread; heap the white sauce over these squares,
dust the top with the yolks of the eggs, then with a little salt and
pepper, and send at once to the table.

Egg Croquettes

Put five hard-boiled eggs through a vegetable press, or chopper. Put one
tablespoonful of butter and two of flour into a saucepan, add a half pint
of milk, stir until boiling, add a half cup of stale, unbrowned bread
crumbs, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a dash
of pepper and a half teaspoonful of onion juice; add the eggs, mix and
turn out to cool. When cold form into cutlets, dip in egg and then in
bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. Serve with plain cream sauce.
These with peas make an exceedingly nice luncheon dish.

Gold Cake

One frequently has four or five yolks left after having used the whites
for some light dish, as mock charlotte. Beat a half cupful of butter to a
cream, add gradually one cupful of sugar. When very, very light, add the
yolks of the eggs and beat for ten or fifteen minutes; then add one cupful
of water, and two and a half cupfuls of flour, sifted with three level
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Beat thoroughly, and bake in a small round
or square pan.

German Slaw

This will use the yolks of two eggs and any little sour cream that may be
left over. Shred the cabbage and soak it in cold water, changing the
water once or twice. When crisp, wring it perfectly dry in a towel. Beat
the yolks of two eggs, add a half cupful of sour cream, four
tablespoonfuls of vinegar; stir this over the fire until it thickens. Take
from the fire, add a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper; mix it
with the cabbage and turn it into the serving dish. This quantity of
dressing will be quite sufficient for about one quart of cabbage.

Apple Snow

In making sauce Hollandaise or mayonnaise one always has quite a quantity
of the left-over whites. These may be made into various sponges, or used
for fruit snow. Beat the whites of four or five eggs until light, then
add two level tablespoonfuls of sifted powdered sugar to the white of each
egg and beat until dry and glossy. Grate into this one tart apple, fold it
quickly, float it on a little dish of good milk or cream, and send it at
once to the table. If you have one or two little stale cakes, or a bit of
sponge cake, stale, grate it, dust the top, and if you have just a little
jelly, you may dot it here and there with the jelly. This must be made
just before the dinner hour, or the apple will lose its color. Grated
pear, or two or three peaches pressed through a sieve, or one or two soft
bananas may be beaten and used in the place of the apple.

POTATOES

Cold baked potatoes will be converted at once into stuffed potatoes, and
put aside for rewarming. Two cold boiled potatoes will make a comfortable
dish of hashed browned potatoes, or may be served with cream sauce or au
gratin.

Stuffed Potatoes

Baked potatoes that are left over must be made into stuffed potatoes
before they are heavy and cold. At the close of the meal at which they
were first served, cut the potatoes directly into halves, scoop out the
inside portion, put it through an ordinary vegetable press, or mash it
fine; add a little butter, salt, pepper and sufficient milk to make a
light mixture; stand this over hot water and beat until light and smooth.
Put it back into the shells, and stand them aside in a cold place. When
ready to serve, brush the top with beaten egg, run them into a quick oven
until hot and golden brown.

Potato Croquettes

Cold mashed potatoes may be made into croquettes by adding to each pint
four tablespoonfuls of heated milk, the yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful
of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of grated onion, a quarter of a
teaspoonful of pepper; stir over the fire until the mixture is thoroughly
heated; form into cylinder-shaped croquettes, dip in egg and rolled bread
crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. Potato croquettes are more difficult to
fry than meat croquettes; the fat must be at least 365 degrees (Fahr.) and
the rolling carefully done.

Potato Puff

The above mixture may have the whites of the eggs beaten and stirred in,
and baked in the oven; serve in the same dish in which it was baked.

Potato Roses for Garnishing

Cold boiled potatoes may have added sufficient milk to make a soft paste;
stir it over the fire until smooth; put it into your pastry bag, using a
star tube; hold the bag firmly, pressing out on greased papers these
little potato roses; brown in the oven and use them for garnishing fish
dishes.

Potato Custards

Stir two cups of cold mashed potatoes, with four tablespoonfuls of milk,
over the fire until they are warm and light; take from the fire and add
three eggs beaten light with four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Add a
teaspoonful of vanilla, stir in carefully a pint and a half of milk. Put
this mixture into greased custard cups; stand in a baking pan of boiling
water and bake in a moderate oven until set, about twenty or thirty
minutes.

Where a little cooked meat and, at the same time, mashed potatoes, are
left over, the meat may be seasoned with a savory sauce, turned into a
baking dish, the mashed potatoes slightly thinned with hot milk and then
slightly thickened with flour, and used as a crust. This makes what we
call a potato pie. Four tablespoonfuls of milk and four of flour would be
a good allowance to each cupful of mashed potatoes.

POTATOES--COLD BOILED

Hashed Brown Potatoes

Chop two cold boiled potatoes rather fine, season with salt and pepper.
Put a tablespoonful of butter in an ordinary sauté pan; when hot, put in
the potatoes, smoothing and patting them down; stand over a moderate fire
and allow them to cook undisturbed for at least eight minutes; then with a
limber knife fold over one half as you would an omelet; stand again over
the fire for about three minutes and turn at once on to a heated dish.
These are exceedingly difficult to make. Directions must be carefully
followed; the butter must be hot when you put in the potatoes; the whole
must be packed firmly down so that it will not break when turning out.

O'Brien Potatoes

Chop one green pepper rather fine. Chop sufficient red pepper to make two
tablespoonfuls. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying pan, add the
peppers, which must be sweet; shake until the peppers are soft, cover over
four cold boiled potatoes, chopped rather fine, that have been seasoned
with a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Press them down as you
do hashed brown potatoes, let them stand for a moment, stir them up, mix
well, without breaking, and press down again. Let these stand until brown,
fold over as you would an omelet and turn out on a heated platter.

Potatoes au Gratin

To each four good-sized cold potatoes chopped fine allow a pint of cream
sauce, to which you have added four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese; mix
the potatoes with the sauce, turn them into a baking dish, dust with
cheese, and brown in a quick oven.

Scalloped Potatoes

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice; to each pint allow a half pint of
cream sauce. Put a layer of the sauce in the bottom of a baking dish, put
in the potatoes, season with salt and pepper, cover with another layer of
cream sauce, dust the top with bread crumbs, dot here and there little
bits of butter, and bake in a moderate oven until a golden brown.

Potatoes in Milk

Cold boiled potatoes may be cut into slices and cooked in milk in a double
boiler until the whole is thoroughly heated; season with salt and pepper
and serve.

Sweet Potatoes

Cold boiled or roasted sweet potatoes may be mashed while warm, seasoned
with salt, pepper and butter and formed at once into croquettes; dip and
fry the same as white potato croquettes.

Lyonnaise Potatoes

Cut cold boiled potatoes into small dice; to each pint allow a
tablespoonful of butter; put the butter in an ordinary sauté pan, melt it,
add a tablespoonful of chopped onion, shake until the onion is golden
brown; throw in the potatoes, shake or toss over a hot fire until each
piece is slightly browned; sprinkle lightly with a half teaspoonful of
salt, a tablespoonful of parsley, and a dash of pepper; dish and serve.

Broiled Potatoes

Cut cold boiled potatoes into thin slices lengthwise; dip each slice in a
little melted butter, dust it with salt and pepper, and broil it over a
clear fire until a golden brown. For dyspeptics it is better to broil the
potato first and add the butter after, as the heating of the butter
renders it indigestible. Sweet potatoes may be broiled after this same
rule, and would be less greasy than when fried.

Vegetable Browned Hash

Chop two or three cold boiled potatoes rather fine, add an equal quantity
of chopped carrot, and either string beans or peas, which ever you happen
to have left over. You can add to this a cupful of stewed cabbage. Put
two tablespoonfuls of butter into a shallow frying pan, mix the
vegetables, put them into the butter, let them stand over a slow fire
until they are browned thoroughly and crusted in the bottom. Fold one half
carefully over the other, and press the two halves together; cook just a
moment longer, and turn out on to a heated platter. This is a nice dish to
serve with omelet and tomato sauce for luncheon or supper.

CHEESE

The shells of Edam, or pine-apple cheese, after all the available cheese
has been scooped out, will be used as a baking dish for stewed spaghetti
or macaroni or rice. If care is taken, one shell may be used for three or
four bakings. Boil the macaroni in plain water until tender; then drain,
cut it into small pieces and add it to cream sauce. Pour this into the
cheese shell, stand the shell on a piece of oiled paper in a baking pan
and run into a moderate oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Lift the shell
carefully, put it on to a heated dish, and send at once to the table.
After the macaroni has been taken out, the shell will be cleaned and put
aside in a cold place for the next baking. There is just enough cheese
imparted by the toasting of this shell to give ah agreeable flavor to the
macaroni. Plain boiled rice may be heaped into the shells and steamed, or
baked in the oven for a few moments.

Any scraps or bits of common cheese, when too hard and dry to serve on the
table should be grated, put into a jar and put aside for cheese balls to
serve with lettuce, cheese soufflé, for baked macaroni, or spaghetti, or
for croquettes, cheese sauce, or Duchess soup.

Cheese Soufflé

Put one cup of stale bread crumbs with a gill of milk over the fire for
just a moment; take from the fire, add the yolks of three eggs, six
tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, a half teaspoonful of salt and a dash of
red pepper; stir in the well-beaten whites of the eggs; put into
individual baking dishes; bake in a quick oven about eight minutes and
send at once to the table.

Cheese Balls

Grate or chop sufficient common cheese to make a half pint; add to it one
pint of stale bread crumbs, a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of red
pepper and the whites of two eggs slightly beaten. Form these into small
balls the size of an English walnut; dip in egg and then in bread crumbs
and fry in smoking hot fat. These may also be made into small
cylinder-shaped croquettes, and served with cream sauce.

Duchess Soup

Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and a sliced onion in a saucepan; cook
until the onion is soft and yellow; add to this two tablespoonfuls of
flour, mix, and then add one quart of milk, a level teaspoonful of salt
and a palatable seasoning of red pepper. Add six tablespoonfuls of grated
cheese; stir in a double boiler until it is smoking hot; press through a
fine sieve; reheat and send at once to the table.

Cheese Pudding

Toast slices of stale bread until a golden brown and crisp to the center.
This is best done in the oven. Put a layer of this toasted bread in the
bottom of a baking dish; put over a quarter of a cup of grated or chopped
cheese, sprinkle with salt and red pepper; then another layer of bread,
another of cheese and the last of bread. Pour over sufficient milk to
moisten the bread; bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes, and serve at
once.

SAUCES

All meat sauces are made after the same rule, changing the liquids to give
varieties; for instance, one tablespoonful of butter (which means an
ounce), and one tablespoonful of flour (a half ounce) are always allowed
to each half pint of liquid. The butter and flour are rubbed together
(better without heating), then the liquid added, cold or warm, the whole
stirred over the fire until boiling. A half teaspoonful of salt and an
eighth of a teaspoonful of pepper is the proper amount of seasoning.

White Sauce

If you wish to make a white sauce, use one tablespoonful of butter, one
tablespoonful of flour and a half pint of milk. Called also milk or cream
sauce.

Tomato Sauce

Tomato sauce will have the same proportions of butter and flour and a half
pint of strained tomatoes.

Sauce Bechamel

For sauce Bechamel, fill the cup half full of stock, then the remaining
half with milk, giving again the half pint of liquid and usual quantity of
butter and flour.

Sauce Supréme

This is one of the nicest of all sauces to use with warmed-over chicken,
duck or turkey. Rub together a tablespoonful of butter and one of flour,
then add gradually a half pint of chicken stock; stir constantly until
boiling, take from the fire, add the yolks of two eggs, strain through a
fine sieve, add the seasoning, and serve immediately.

Sauces containing the yolks of uncooked eggs cannot be reboiled after the
eggs are added.

English Drawn Butter

For English drawn butter, use a tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful
of flour, and a half pint of water. We usually have the water boiling, and
add it gradually to the butter and flour, stirring rapidly. As soon as it
reaches boiling point, take from the fire and add carefully another
tablespoonful of butter. This may be converted into a plain

Sauce Hollandaise

by adding with the last tablespoonful of butter, the yolks of two eggs,
the juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of onion juice and a
tablespoonful of chopped parsley.

Brown Sauce

This is made by rubbing butter and flour together in the above
proportions, then adding a half pint of stock; stir until boiling, add a
teaspoonful of browning or kitchen bouquet and the usual seasoning of salt
and pepper. To change the character of this sauce add garlic, onion,
Worcestershire sauce, mushroom catsup, etc.

Brown Tomato Sauce

An exceedingly nice sauce for Hamburg steaks. After you have taken the
steaks from the pan, add a tablespoonful of butter and one of flour; mix.
Fill your measuring cup half full of strained tomatoes, the remaining half
with stock, making a half pint; add this to the butter and flour, stir
until boiling, add a seasoning of salt and pepper and pour over the
steaks.

Roasted Beef Gravy

Roasted beef gravy, which really should be a sauce, is improved by adding
a little tomato to the stock before adding it to the fat and flour. In
roasting meats, we do not use butter for the sauce; there is always
sufficient fat in the bottom of the pan. Pour from the pan all but one or
two tablespoonfuls of fat (the amount required) and add to that the flour.
A rounding tablespoonful of butter to which we refer weighs an ounce; of
liquid fat, as in the pan, you must allow two even tablespoonfuls to the
ounce; so, if you are going to make a half pint of sauce take out all but
two tablespoonfuls of fat; add one tablespoonful of flour and then the
half pint of water or stock.

Browning

Plain burned sugar (caramel) may be used to color soups and sauces, thus
saving the trouble of browning the flour or butter. It is also used as a
flavoring for sweets. Put one cup of sugar, dry, into an iron saucepan.
Stand it over a hot fire, and stir continually until it is reduced to a
dark brown liquid. When it begins to burn and smoke, add hastily a cup of
boiling water, stir and cook until a thin syrup-like mixture is formed.
It must not be too thick. Bottle, and it is ready for use, and will keep
any length of time.

Kitchen Bouquet

Add one chopped onion and a teaspoonful of celery seed to one cup of dry
sugar, and then proceed as for ordinary browning. Strain and bottle. A
very good mixture under this name can be purchased at the grocers.

Mushroom Sauce

Where just a few mushrooms are left over, either fresh or canned, they may
be chopped fine and added to a brown sauce and served with steak or beef;
or they may be chopped fine and added to a cream sauce and served with
chicken or sweetbreads.

Cold Meat Sauces

It is the fashion when one is serving cold meat to pass with it some
condiment like Worcestershire sauce, mushroom, walnut or tomato catsup. Of
course, these used in any great quantity are more or less injurious. A
number of little left-overs in the house may be used to take their place,
adding zest to the meat, and are more economical and more wholesome.

Chopped Tomato Sauce

Peel a good-sized tomato, cut it into halves and press out the seeds; chop
the flesh of the tomato fine, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, a
dash of pepper, or, if you have it, a little sweet pepper chopped fine;
you may add also a little celery chopped very fine, or celery seed, and a
teaspoonful of onion juice; rub your spoon with a clove of garlic, and mix
the ingredients thoroughly; add a teaspoonful of lemon juice and dish.
Pass and use as ordinary catsup.

Grated Cucumber Sauce

Grate three or four large cucumbers; drain them on a sieve; to this
drained pulp add a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of red pepper, a
teaspoonful of onion juice, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and their stir
in carefully two or three tablespoonfuls of very thick cream; if you can
whip the cream a little first, so much the better. Cream may also be added
to the tomato.

Chopped Celery Sauce

Chop fine sufficient celery to make a half pint; season it with a quarter
of a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of onion juice, a dash of pepper.
Rub the spoon with garlic, mix thoroughly, stir into it the yolk of an egg
that has been beaten light with two tablespoonfuls of cream; add a few
drops of lemon juice or tarragon vinegar and serve.

Cream Horseradish Sauce

This is one of the most delightful sauces to serve with left-over meats,
especially beef. Press from the vinegar four tablespoonfuls of
horseradish, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, and work in the yolk
of an egg. Whip six tablespoonfuls of cream to a stiff froth, stir it
gradually into the horseradish and dish at once.

Pudding Sauces

The simple method of making a pudding sauce is to add to a half cup of
sugar, a tablespoonful of flour; mix thoroughly, and then add hastily a
half pint of boiling water; boil for a moment and pour while hot into one
well-beaten egg, beating all the while. This may now be seasoned with any
flavoring, as orange, lemon or vanilla.

To change the character of this sauce, a tablespoonful of butter may be
added. Where butter enters largely into the composition of a pudding
sauce, it is better that it should be beaten to a cream, the sugar added
gradually, then the egg and last the liquor. Heat it over a double boiler
just at serving time, or the froth will float on the surface and the
liquid be rather dense at the bottom.

Melted sugar with lemon juice and a little water is called sugar sauce.

SALADS

There comes a time during the week, even in careful housekeeping, when
there is an accumulation of little things, a few olives, a slice or two of
beet, perhaps two or three pieces of cooked carrot, a cold potato, a tiny
little bit of cold fish, or cold meats, and not more than a tablespoonful
or two of aspic jelly; these may all be utilized in a

Russian Salad

Chop or cut carefully the vegetables; mix together, add two or three
tablespoonfuls of toasted piñon nuts, and the meat and fish; dish on
lettuce leaves, or, if you have tomatoes, peel and take out the centers,
and fill the salad into the tomatoes. Serve with French or mayonnaise
dressing; garnish with blocks of aspic jelly.

CEREALS

Cold boiled rice left over may be mixed with a small quantity of meat, and
used for stuffing tomatoes or egg plant; or it may be re-heated or made
into pudding, or added to the muffins for lunch, or added to the corn
bread.

A cup of oat meal or cracked wheat or wheatlet may also be added to the
muffins or ordinary yeast or corn breads. These little additions increase
the food value, make the mixture lighter, and save waste.

Southern Rice Bread

Separate two eggs, beat the yolks until light, and add one cup (a half
pint) of milk; add a tablespoonful of melted butter, a half teaspoonful of
salt, and one and a half cups of corn meal; beat thoroughly, and stir in
one cup of cold boiled rice; add a teaspoonful of baking powder; beat for
two or three minutes; stir in the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and bake
in a thin sheet in an ordinary baking pan.

Rice Muffins

Separate two eggs; add to the yolks one cup of milk and a cup and a half
of white flour; beat thoroughly, add a half teaspoonful of salt, a
teaspoonful of baking powder and one cup of cold boiled rice; stir in the
well-beaten whites, and bake in gem pans in a quick oven twenty minutes.

Rice Croquettes

To make cold boiled rice into croquettes, the rice must be re-heated in a
double boiler with a gill of milk and the yolk of an egg to each cup; you
may season with sugar and lemon or salt and pepper, and serve as a
vegetable. Form into cylinder-shaped croquettes; dip in egg and bread
crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat.

Simple Rice Pudding

Put into a double boiler one quart of milk; allow it to cook for thirty
minutes; then add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and
one cup of cold boiled rice; turn this into a baking pan, and bake in a
quick oven thirty minutes. Serve cold. Raisins may be added when it is
put into the baking pan.

Lemon Rice

Into one cup of cold boiled rice stir one pint of milk; beat the yolks of
three eggs with a half cup of sugar together until light; add to them the
rice and milk; add the grated yellow rind and the juice of one lemon. Turn
this into a baking pan; bake in a moderately quick oven twenty to thirty
minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add three
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and beat again. Heap these over the
pudding, dust thickly with powdered sugar; return to the oven to slowly
brown; serve cold.

Paradise Pudding

Pare, core and grate three apples. Separate three eggs; add to the yolks
four tablespoonfuls of sugar; beat until light; add a grating of nutmeg
and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; stir in a half cup of cold boiled rice;
mix with this quickly the apples, and beat well; add a half cup of milk;
turn into a baking dish, and bake for thirty minutes. Make a meringue as
in preceding recipe, from the whites of the eggs; heap it over the top,
and brown. This pudding may be served warm or cold.

Compote of Pineapple

Throw a pint of boiling water over one cup of cold boiled rice; stir for a
moment; drain, and stand at the oven door. Have ready, picked apart, one
small pineapple; add to it a half cup of sugar; heat quickly, stirring
constantly. Arrange the rice in the center of a round dish, making it into
a mound, flat on top; heap the pineapple neatly on this; pour over the
syrup, and send at once to the table. Small quantities or different kinds
of fruits that have been left over may be blended and used in this way.

Monday Pudding

Cut bits of whole wheat bread into dice. Use a half cup of any fruit that
may have been left over, prunes, raisins, chopped dates or candied fruit.
Grease an ordinary melon mold; put a layer of the bread in the bottom,
then a layer of the fruit, and so continue until you have the mold filled.
Beat three eggs, without separating, with four tablespoonfuls of sugar;
add a pint of milk; pour this carefully over the bread; let it stand for
ten minutes; then put the lid on the mold, and steam or boil continuously
for one hour. Serve with lemon or orange sauce.

Apple Farina Pudding

Pour the left-over breakfast porridge into a square mold and stand it
aside. At luncheon or dinner time cut this into thin slices, cover the
bottom of a baking dish with these slices, and cover these with sliced
apples, and so continue until you have the ingredients used, having the
last layer apples. Beat an egg, without separating, until light, add a
half cupful of milk and a saltspoonful of salt, then stir in a half cupful
of flour. When smooth pour this over the apples and bake in a quick oven
a half hour. Serve with milk or with hard sauce.

Cranberry Farina Pudding

2 cupfuls of cold left-over farina porridge
1/2 cupful of cranberries
1/2 cupful of sugar

It is wise to pour the porridge into a mold as soon as you finish
breakfast. At serving time turn this out in a glass dish, pour over the
cranberry that has been pressed through a sieve; dust thickly with the
sugar. Stir the remaining sugar into a half pint of milk or cream and
serve as a sauce with the pudding.

Plain Farina Pudding

2 cupfuls of milk
1/2 cupful of sugar
2 eggs
1 cupful of left-over farina or cream of wheat
1 teaspoonful of vanilla

Put the milk in a double boiler, add the sugar and cold farina porridge.
Stir until thoroughly hot, then add the eggs, well beaten, and the
vanilla. Turn into a baking dish and run in the oven until brown. Serve
cold, with milk or cream.

Farina Gems

2 eggs
1 cupful of milk
1 cupful of cold boiled farina
1 cupful of flour
4 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder
1/2 teaspoonful of salt

Separate the eggs, add the milk and stir this gradually into the cold
farina. When smooth add the salt, baking powder and flour, mixed. Beat,
and then fold in the well-beaten whites of eggs. Bake in gem pans in a
quick oven a half hour.

Hominy Pone

1 cupful of boiled hominy
1 cupful of white corn meal
2 cupfuls of milk
2 level tablespoonfuls of butter
2 eggs
1/2 teaspoonful of salt

If the hominy is cold left-over hominy, add to it the milk, and when
thoroughly smooth add the eggs, well beaten, then the butter, melted, and
the corn meal. Pour into a greased pan and bake in a very hot oven about
twenty to twenty-five minutes.

Oat Meal Muffins

The ordinary muffin recipes, which are always about alike, no matter what
flour is used, may have added to them a cup of well-cooked oat meal; for
instance, separate two eggs as for rice muffins; add to the yolks a cup of
milk; then add one and a half cups of whole wheat flour; beat thoroughly;
add a teaspoonful of baking powder; beat again; add one cup of well-cooked
oat meal, or you may substitute wheatlet or any of the breakfast cereals;
fold in the whites of the eggs, and bake in gem pans in a quick oven
twenty to thirty minutes.

Sandwiches

Little bits of fruit, crisp pieces of celery, cold meats of all kinds, may
be chopped, properly seasoned, and used for making fruit, vegetable and
meat sandwiches.

VEGETABLES

String beans, cauliflower, carrots, beets, peas and even a cold boiled
potato may all be cut into neat pieces, mixed together, and served on
lettuce leaves, dressed with French dressing as a salad. One cold boiled
beet may be used as a garnish for a potato salad. String beans, if you
have sufficient quantity, may be served alone as a salad.

Stuffed Egg Plant

Throw a good-sized egg plant into a kettle of boiling water; boil ten
minutes; when cold cut into halves and with a blunt knife scoop out the
center. Chop this scooped-out portion fine, mix with it an equal quantity
of finely-chopped uncooked meat, add a grated onion, a clove of garlic
mashed, a teaspoonful of salt, a little chopped parsley, if you have it,
and a dash of pepper. Fill this into the egg plant shells, stand them in a
baking pan, add a cup of stock and a tablespoonful of butter, bake slowly
one hour, basting every ten minutes.

Cucumbers

Raw cucumbers are easily wilted, and are then unfit for serving. Soak them
in pure cold, unsalted water until serving time. Pass French dressing in a
separate dish. In this way the "left-overs" may be placed in the
refrigerator and used next day as an addition to the dinner salad.

Left-Over Tomatoes

A half cup of stewed tomatoes may be used with stock for brown tomato
sauce, or for making a small dish of scalloped tomatoes, helping out at
lunch when perhaps the family is less in number. The Italians boil down
this half cup of tomatoes until it has the consistency of dough; then
press through a sieve, add a little salt, pack down into a jelly tumbler
and stand in the refrigerator to use as flavoring. A tablespoonful in a
soup, or in an ordinary sauce, or mixed with the water for baked beans, or
added to the stock sauce for spaghetti or macaroni, adds greatly to the
flavor as well as appearance.

Corn Oysters

6 ears of cold boiled corn
2 eggs
1 cupful of milk
1/2 cupful of flour
1/2 teaspoonful of salt
1 saltspoonful of pepper

Score the corn, press it out, add the eggs, well beaten, and the oil or
butter; then stir in the milk, salt and pepper. Sift the flour, stir it
in, and drop by spoonfuls into shallow hot fat.

Chicken Corn Pie

6 ears of cold cooked corn
4 eggs
1 level tablespoonful of butter, melted
1 cupful of milk
1 teaspoonful of salt
1 saltspoonful of pepper
1 young chicken

Score the corn and with a dull knife press it out. Carefully beat the
eggs, without separating, until light, add the milk, melted butter, salt
and pepper. Pour this into a casserole mold or pudding dish. Have the
chicken drawn and disjointed; make two pieces of the breast, cut it into
four pieces, dust with salt and pepper, brush with melted butter. Lay the
chicken on top of this mixture and stand the baking dish in a moderately
quick oven about one hour. Serve in the dish in which it was cooked. Some
prefer to broil the chicken on the bone side before they put it into the
pudding, the pudding may be baked, and then put it in the pudding and
brown it with the pudding. This is a good way to use cold left-over corn,
and cold bits of chicken may be used in the place of the fresh chicken.

Green Corn Cakes

4 ears of left-over cooked corn
1 egg
2 tablespoonfuls of milk
1 tablespoonful of melted butter
1/2 cupful of flour
1/2 teaspoonful of salt

Score the corn, press out the cooked pulp, add to it the beaten egg, milk,
melted butter and salt. Stir in the flour, and drop by tablespoonfuls into
a little thoroughly heated fat.

FRUITS

Small quantities of fruit that are not sufficiently sightly to put again
on the table may be put aside and made into fruit pot-pie. All sorts of
fruits may be blended. Put them into a saucepan, and to each pint of this
fruit allow one quart of water and a palatable seasoning of sugar, and you
may flavor it with a little grated lemon or orange rind; bring to boiling
point. During this time put one pint of flour into a bowl, add a half
teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat one egg until
light, add to it a half cup of milk, then add this to the flour; there
should be just enough to moisten and make a dough. Take this out on the
board, knead lightly, roll out and cut into biscuits. Put these biscuits
over the top of the fruit; cover the kettle and cook slowly for fifteen
minutes; do not lift the lid during the cooking. Serve hot with plain
milk or cream, or with a hard sauce made from sugar and butter.

Fruit Soufflé

Beat the whites of six eggs until light, but not dry; add three
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; mix quickly; line the bottom of the
baking dish with any sort of fruit, such as chopped dates or figs, or
left-over candied fruits or preserves. Heap over the whites of the eggs,
dust thickly with powdered sugar, and bake in a hot oven for five minutes.
Serve immediately. To give variety, where stale biscuits or bread, or
sponge cake are left over, line the bottom of the dish with the stale
bits; pour over enough milk to moisten, put in a layer of fruit and the
whites of the eggs as above.

Fruit Jambolaya

Put one cupful of cold boiled rice in a little sieve or colander and stand
it over the tea kettle where the steam will pass through it. Chop fine any
left-over fruit at hand, an apple, pear, plum, banana, and the pulp of an
orange; they may be all mixed together and slightly sweetened. Put a
little of the rice into four serving dishes, put in the center of each a
tablespoonful of the chopped fruit and send to the table. This is rather
nice for children, and is a good way to use up both the rice and the
fruit, as it makes a good combination.

Plain White Cake

Beat a quarter of a cup of butter to a cream; add gradually one and a half
cups of sugar. Sift two cups of flour with a teaspoonful of baking powder;
measure a half pint of water; add a little water and a little flour, and
so continue until the ingredients are used; beat thoroughly, then stir in
the well-beaten whites of five eggs. Bake in a loaf or layers. Put layers
together with chopped fruit, soft custard, or a soft icing.

Chicken Muffin Cases

Boil together a half pint of water and two tablespoonfuls of butter, add
hastily a half pint of sifted flour, stir over fire until a smooth dough
is formed. Take from the fire and when cool, add one unbeaten whole egg;
beat, add another and so continue until four eggs have been added. Bake in
gem pans until light and hollow, about a half hour. This quantity will
make twelve. Cut a round from the top and fill the muffin with any creamed
mixture.

To Make Cocoanut Milk

Cover one quart of grated cocoanut with one pint of boiling water. Stir
and mash; strain and press. The milk thus produced may be used for
curries. Throw away the pulp.

SOUR MILK AND CREAM

Corn Cake

2 eggs
1 cupful of thick sour milk
1 level teaspoonful of baking soda
2 cupfuls of corn meal
3/4 cupful of white flour
2 cupfuls of sweet milk
3 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder

Beat the eggs until very light, without separating. Moisten the soda in
two tablespoonfuls of cold water, stir it into the cupful of sour milk;
add this to the eggs, then add the meal and beat thoroughly. Sift the
baking powder and flour; stir these into the other mixture, and then add
the two cupfuls of sweet milk. Pour into a shallow greased pan and bake in
a moderately quick oven about three-quarters of an hour. This should have
a custard on top.

Sponge Corn Cake

1 cupful of corn meal
1/2 cupful of flour
1 cupful of thick sour milk
2 eggs
1 level tablespoonful of butter, melted
1/2 teaspoonful of salt
1/2 teaspoonful of baking soda

Moisten the soda in a tablespoonful of water and stir into the thick sour
milk. Separate the eggs; beat the yolks, add the sour milk, with the
butter, melted, corn meal and flour. Beat thoroughly, then fold in the
well-beaten whites, add salt and bake in a shallow greased pan in a quick
oven a half hour.

Old Virginia Batter Cakes

2 eggs
1 cupful of sour milk
1 cupful of water
2 cupfuls of white corn meal
1 cupful of flour
1/2 teaspoonful of salt
1 level teaspoonful of baking soda
1 teaspoonful of baking powder

Beat the eggs, without separating, until very, very light. Dissolve the
soda in a little water, add it to the sour milk; stir until this is well
mixed, add it to the egg; add the water, the corn meal, salt and flour
sifted with the baking powder. Mix thoroughly and bake on a very lightly
greased griddle.

Plain Corn Dodgers

1 egg
1/2 teaspoonful of salt
1 cupful of thick sour milk
1 level teaspoonful of baking soda
1 cupful of corn meal
1/2 cupful of flour

Beat the egg, without separating. Dissolve the soda and add it to the sour
milk; add this to the egg; add the salt, then the corn meal and flour.
Beat until well mixed, and drop by spoonfuls in a shallow pan in which you
have a little bacon or ham fat.  When cooked on one side, turn quickly and
cook on the other.

INDEX

Anchovy, Mutton with
Apple Farina Pudding
      Snow

Baked Sardines
Balls, Cheese
       Curry
       English Chicken
Barbecue of Cold Beef
Batter Cakes, Old Virginia
Beauregard Eggs
Bechamel Sauce
Beef, Cold, Barbecue of
Beef--Cooked
    Barbecue of Cold
    Bresleau
    Croquettes
    Fritters
    Gobbits
    Minced on Toast
    Panada
    Potato Dumplings
    Ragout
    Rechauffee
    Salt Hash No. 1
              No. 2
    Steak Pudding
Beef Croquettes
     Fritters
     Gravy, Roasted
     on Toast, Minced
     Panada of
     Rechauffee of
     Salt Hash No. 1
               No. 2
     Steak Pudding
     Timbale
Beef--Uncooked
    Brown Stew
    Cannelon
    Hamburg Steaks
    Kibbee
    Timbale
Bobotee
Bordelaise Duck
Boudins
Bouquet, Kitchen
Bread
      and Butter Custard
      Croquettes
      Muffins
      Southern Rice
Bresleau
Broiled Potatoes
Browned Hash, Vegetable
Browning
Brown Sauce
      Stew
      Tomato Sauce
Butter, English Drawn

Cake, Corn
     Gold
     Plain White
     Sponge Corn
Cakes, Green Corn
       Old Virginia Batter
Canapés
Cannelon
Cases, Chicken Muffin
Casserole
Celery Sauce, Chopped
Cereals
Cheese
       Balls
       Pudding
       Soufflé
Chicken Balls, English
Chicken--Cooked
    Casserole
    Creamed Hash on Toast
    Cutlets
    Indian Hash
    Mock Terrapin
    Supréme
Chicken Corn Pie
        Cutlets
        Legs, Deviled
        Muffin Cases
        Supréme
Chicken--Uncooked,
    Deviled Legs,
    English Balls,
    Timbale,
Chopped Celery Sauce,
        Tomato Sauce,
Cocoanut Milk, To Make,
Cold Beef, Barbecue of,
     Boiled Potatoes,
     Meat Sauces,
Compote of Pineapple,
Cooked Beef,
       Chicken,
       Fish,
       Mutton,
Corn Cake,
          Sponge,
     Cakes, Green,
     Dodgers, Plain,
     Oysters,
     Pie, Chicken,
Cranberry Farina Pudding,
Cream Horseradish Sauce,
Creamed Hash on Toast,
Croquettes, Beef,
            Bread,
            Egg,
            Fish,
            Potato,
            Rice,
Cucumber Sauce, Grated,
Cucumbers,
Curry Balls,
      of Mutton,
Custard, Bread and Butter,
Custards, Potato,
Cutlets, Chicken,

Deviled Chicken Legs,
Dodgers, Plain Corn,
Drawn Butter, English,
Duchess Soup,
Duck Bordelaise,
Dumplings, Potato,

Egg Croquettes,
    Plant, Stuffed,
Eggs,
     Beauregard
     Whites of,
English Chicken Balls,
        Drawn Butter,

Farina Gems,
       Pudding, Apple,
                Cranberry,
                Plain,
Fish à la Crême,
Fish--Cooked,
    à la Crême,
    Baked Sardines,
    Canapés,
    Croquettes,
French Lamb Stew,
Fritters, Beef,
Fruit Jambolaya,
      Soufflé,
Fruits,

Game,
Garnishing, Potato Roses for,
Gems, Farina,
German Slaw,
Gobbits,
Gold Cake,
Grated Cucumber Sauce,
Gravy, Roasted Beef,
Green Corn Cakes,

Hamburg Steaks,
Hash, Creamed, on Toast,
      Indian,
      Salt Beef No. 1,
                No. 2,
      Vegetable Browned,
Hashed Brown Potatoes,
Hollandaise Sauce,
Hominy Pone,
Horseradish Sauce, Cream,

Indian Hash,

Jambolaya, Fruit,

Kibbee,
Kitchen Bouquet,
Klopps,

Lamb Stew, French
    with Tomatoes
Left-Over Tomatoes
Lemon Rice
Little Puddings à la Grand Belle
Lyonnaise Potatoes

Meat
     Sauces, Cold
Milk, Cocoanut, To Make
      Potatoes in
Minced Beef on Toast
Mock Terrapin or à la Newburg
Monday Pudding
Muffin Cases, Chicken
Muffins, Bread
         Oat Meal
         Rice
Mushroom Sauce
Mutton--Cooked
      Bobotee
      Boudins
      Curry of
      French Stew
      Klopps
      Pilau
      Salad
      Stew with Tomatoes
      with Anchovy
Mutton, Curry of
      Salad
Mutton--Uncooked
      Curry Balls
Mutton with Anchovy

Oat Meal Muffins
O'Brien Potatoes
Old Virginia Batter Cakes
Oysters, Corn

Panada of Beef
Paradise Pudding
Pie, Chicken Corn
Pilau
Pineapple, Compote of
Plain Corn Dodgers
      Farina Pudding
      White Cake
Pone, Hominy
Potato Croquettes
       Custards
       Dumplings
       Puff
       Roses, for Garnishing
Potatoes
        au Gratin
        Broiled
        --Cold Boiled
        Hashed Brown
        in Milk
        Lyonnaise
        O'Brien
        Scalloped
        Stuffed
        Sweet
Pudding, Apple Farina
         Beef Steak
         Cheese
         Cranberry Farina
         Monday
         Paradise
         Plain Farina
         Sauces
         Simple Rice
         Steak
Puddings, Little à la Grand Belle
Puff, Potato

Ragout
Rechauffee of Beef
Rice Bread, Southern
     Croquettes
     Lemon
     Muffins
     Pudding, Simple
Roasted Beef Gravy
Roses, Potato, for Garnishing
Russian Salad

Salad, Mutton
       Russian
Salads
Salt Beef Hash, No. 1
                No. 2
Sandwiches
Sardines, Baked
Sauce, Bechamel
       Brown
       Tomato
       Chopped Celery
       Tomato
       Cream Horseradish,
       Grated Cucumber
       Hollandaise
       Mushroom
       Supréme
       Tomato
       White
Sauces,
        Cold Meat
        Pudding
Scalloped Potatoes
Simple Rice Pudding
Slaw, German
Snow, Apple
Soufflé, Cheese
         Fruit
Soup, Duchess
Sour Milk and Cream
     Corn Cake
     Old Virginia Batter Cakes
     Plain Corn Dodgers
     Sponge Corn Cake
Southern Rice Bread
Sponge Corn Cake
Steak Pudding,
      Beef
Steaks, Hamburg
Stew, Brown
      French Lamb
      Lamb, with Tomatoes
Stock
Stuffed Egg Plant
        Potatoes
Supréme Chicken
        Sauce
Sweet Potatoes

Terrapin, Mock
Timbale
        Beef
To Make Cocoanut Milk
Tomato Sauce,
       Brown
       Chopped
Tomatoes, Lamb Stew with
          Left-Over

Uncooked Beef
         Chicken
         Mutton

Vegetable Browned Hash
Vegetables

White Cake, Plain
      Sauce
Whites of Eggs

FIFTEEN NEW WAYS

                              FOR OYSTERS

                             MRS S T RORER

------------------------------------------------------------------------

OTHER BOOKS

          BY MRS S T RORER

MRS RORER’S COOK BOOK

    nearly 600 pages of the choicest
    recipes in every department of
    cookery; bound in washable oilcloth
    covers, $1.75

CANNING AND PRESERVING

    paper covers, 40 cents; cloth, 75
    cents

HOT WEATHER DISHES

    paper covers, 40 cents; cloth, 75
    cents

HOME CANDY MAKING

    paper covers, 40 cents; cloth, 75
    cents

TWENTY QUICK SOUPS

FIFTEEN NEW WAYS FOR OYSTERS

HOW TO USE A CHAFING DISH

COLONIAL RECIPES

SANDWICHES

DAINTIES

    Each of the above six volumes is bound
    in a different colored linen cloth,
    beautifully stamped in colors; price
    25 cents each

                     ARNOLD AND COMPANY Publishers
                              PHILADELPHIA

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            FIFTEEN NEW WAYS
                              FOR OYSTERS

                            BY MRS S T RORER

                              PHILADELPHIA
                           ARNOLD AND COMPANY

                    Copyright 1894 by Mrs S T Rorer

Printed by
George H Buchanan and Company
Philadelphia

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                CONTENTS

                     Curried Oysters
                     Sauted Oysters
                     Boiled Oysters
                     Oysters a la Newburg
                     Keebobbed Oysters
                     Pan Baked
                     Oyster Tarts
                     Creamed Oysters
                     Spindled Oysters
                     Scallop of Oyster and Macaroni
                     Bisque of Oyster
                     Oysters en Coquille
                     Oysters Stuffed
                     Oysters on Mushrooms
                     Baked Mushrooms
                     Larded Oysters Broiled

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            CURRIED OYSTERS

Drain twenty-five good, fat oysters, boil the liquor, skim and strain
it. Into a saucepan put one tablespoonful of butter, slice into it one
good-sized onion; stir and cook until the onion is a golden brown. Then
add a level tablespoonful of flour, mix and add the oyster liquor, which
should measure one-half pint. If it does not, add sufficient chicken
stock to make the quantity; stir until boiling; mix a teaspoonful of
curry powder with a little stock, a teaspoonful of turmeric, moistened
with a little starch, and boil again; add one-half teaspoonful of salt
and strain into the upper part of a double boiler. Have ready now a
griddle, quite hot. Brush it lightly with butter, throw on four or five
of the oysters; as soon as they sear or brown, turn them, brown, and
throw them into the curry sauce. So continue until you have the whole
number cooked. Serve at once.

                             SAUTED OYSTERS

Drain twenty-five fat oysters, spread them out on a board, carefully
lifting them with the fingers by the muscular part. Never stick a fork
into an oyster. With a soft piece of cheese cloth, dry each one
carefully without bruising. Dust lightly with salt and red pepper. Have
ready a large sheet-iron sauted pan. Put in the bottom just sufficient
butter to keep the oyster from sticking. Have at your side the serving
dish, nicely heated, in which you may put a tablespoonful of butter, and
if you use wine, a tablespoonful of sherry, and about four drops of
Worcestershire sauce. Now throw the oysters, a few at a time, into the
hot pan. Shake them. Lift them quickly as soon as the gills have curled;
put them into the serving dish and then cook a second lot. Do not cook
over eight at a time. Serve at once.

                             BOILED OYSTERS

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter and then strain or pour it off
carefully, leaving the sediment in the melting pan. Put the strained
butter in a heated dish in which you are going to serve the oysters.
Have ready a good-sized kettle of boiling water. Have the oysters
drained in a bowl, which hold close to the kettle in your left hand. Now
with a skimmer take out five or six oysters. Throw them into the boiling
water for just a minute. Then with the same skimmer take them out, drain
carefully, throw them into the heated dish of melted butter, and so
continue until you have the desired quantity boiled. Add then to each
twenty-five a half-teaspoonful of salt and just a grain of cayenne.
Serve smoking hot. This is one of the most delicious ways of cooking
oysters. If you use wine, two tablespoonfuls of sherry may be added.

                          OYSTERS A LA NEWBURG

Drain fifty oysters; pour over them a pitcher of cold water. Have ready
a granite pan, smoking hot; throw in the oysters; add two ounces of
butter, a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper.
Stir carefully with a wooden spoon until the oysters are smoking hot.
Have ready the yolks of two eggs beaten with six tablespoonfuls of
cream; add quickly−−do not boil; then add a tablespoonful of sherry and
serve on nicely browned toast.

                           KEEBOBBED OYSTERS

Drain fifty oysters. Boil the liquor, skim and strain, and stand aside
until wanted. Take the white part from one root of celery, and slice it
very fine. Chop sufficient parsley to make two tablespoonfuls. Put out
on the board about a pint of stale bread crumbs; beat four eggs; add to
them about four tablespoonfuls of oyster liquor. Now dip each oyster
first in the egg and then into the crumbs. Arrange them neatly over the
bottom of a baking dish, crowding them just a little; sprinkle over them
salt, pepper, celery and parsley; then dip again and put over another
layer of oysters; season, add celery and parsley, and so continue until
the baking dish is full; having the last layer oysters. Cut a
tablespoonful of butter into pieces, and put them over the top; pour a
gill of the oyster liquor over the whole. Bake in quick oven twenty
minutes. Serve smoking hot.

                               PAN BAKED

Drain twenty-five oysters free from all liquor. The oysters should be
good-sized and fat. In the bottom of an individual baking dish put one
square of nicely toasted bread. On top of this arrange about six
oysters; sprinkle over them a quarter teaspoonful of salt and a dash of
pepper, and then pour over four tablespoonfuls of cream. Stand these
dishes in a baking pan, then run into a hot oven for about ten minutes.
Serve at once in the dishes in which they were cooked.

                              OYSTER TARTS

Have ready about half-pound of French puff paste. Drain fifty oysters.
Put ten into individual baking dishes. Dust over about a quarter
teaspoonful of salt, a grain of red pepper, and place in the center a
bit of butter the size of a hickory nut. Roll the paste into a thin
sheet; with a round cutter stamp out a top. Place this top over the
oysters, brush it lightly with the yolk of an egg, and bake in a quick
oven twenty minutes. Serve in the dishes in which they were baked.
These, if carefully made, are sightly and are certainly very good.

                            CREAMED OYSTERS

Drain fifty oysters; pour over them a pitcher of cold water. Then turn
them into a saucepan; bring them to a boiling point, drain again, this
time saving the liquor. Measure it, and add to it sufficient milk to
make one pint. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour into a
saucepan; mix over the fire without browning; then add the oyster liquor
and milk; stir constantly until boiling; add the oysters, and bring just
to boiling point. Take from the fire, add a teaspoonful of salt, a
quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, and if you use wine, two
tablespoonfuls of sherry. Serve at once.

                            SPINDLED OYSTERS

Drain twenty-five large oysters. Cut breakfast bacon into very thin
slices, and then cut each slice into three pieces. Take an ordinary
broiling skewer; run it through the hard part of an oyster and then back
so as to pin each oyster between two pieces of bacon; that is, run the
skewer through a piece of bacon as though you were sticking it with a
pin, then through an oyster, and then through another piece of bacon,
and so on until the skewer is filled. Arrange all the skewers neatly on
a double broiler; broil quickly over a clear fire, first on one side
then on the other. Serve at once on the skewers.

                         SCALLOP OF OYSTER AND
                                MACARONI

Break four ounces of macaroni into pieces two inches long; throw into
boiling water; boil rapidly thirty minutes; drain; throw into cold water
for fifteen minutes; drain again. Drain fifty oysters. Put a layer of
these oysters into the bottom of a baking dish, then a layer of the
boiled macaroni; another layer of oysters and macaroni; dusting a little
salt and pepper over each layer; continue until the dish is filled;
having the last layer macaroni. Cut a tablespoonful of butter into bits.
Put the bits over the top, and dust thickly with bread crumbs. Pour over
this four tablespoonfuls of cream, and bake in a quick oven about twenty
minutes.

                            BISQUE OF OYSTER

Drain fifty oysters; boil and skim the liquor. Chop the oysters with a
silver knife; add them to the liquor; boil and skim again. Put one quart
of milk in a double boiler; rub together two tablespoonfuls of butter
and three tablespoonfuls of flour; add this to the hot milk; stir
constantly until smooth and thick as cream. Add one teaspoonful of
celery pepper and the oysters. Strain through a sieve, pressing lightly;
add teaspoonful of salt, and serve at once.

                          OYSTERS EN COQUILLE

Boil in their own liquor twenty-five fat oysters. Drain, and chop with a
silver knife. Put one cup of milk in double boiler. Rub together one
tablespoonful of butter and two of flour; add gradually the hot milk,
beating all the while. Now add yolks of two eggs, teaspoonful of salt,
quarter teaspoonful of pepper, and a tablespoonful of green pepper
chopped fine; add the oysters, fill the mixture into the deep oyster
shell, dust with dry bread crumbs, and brown in a quick oven. Do not
keep them in long, or the mixture will curdle.

                            OYSTERS STUFFED

Drain twenty-five large fat oysters. Remove the hard part, and fill the
space with a forcemeat made from quarter cup of finely chopped chicken,
same quantity of crumbs, tablespoonful of thick cream, a half
teaspoonful of salt, dash of paprica, all mixed well together. Dust the
oysters with salt and pepper. Beat two eggs without separating; add to
them two tablespoonfuls of oyster liquor, and one of warm water. Dip the
oysters first in crumbs, then in the egg mixture, and then again in
crumbs, being careful not to lose the stuffing. Fry in smoking hot oil.
Serve as fried oysters. In placing the stuffing, press it in without
bruising the oyster, but sufficiently firm to keep it in its place.

                          OYSTERS ON MUSHROOMS

Drain twenty-five fat oysters, and put two lardoons of bacon through
each oyster. Cut the fat part of ham or bacon into tiny strips; use a
small larding needle, and just take one stitch in soft part, then
another, allowing the ends to hang. Dip each oyster in bread crumbs,
then in egg, and then again in crumbs. Fry in smoking hot oil. Have
ready a platter of baked mushrooms; put the oysters on top, cover with
brown sauce, and serve.

                            BAKED MUSHROOMS

Peel and cut short the stems from a pound of good-sized mushrooms; put
them in baking pan, gills up; put a tiny bit of butter in each, sprinkle
with salt and pepper. Run them in a hot oven for fifteen minutes; then
pour in the pan about a gill of cream and one gill of oyster liquor that
has been boiled and strained; bring to boiling point. Dish the
mushrooms, cover them over with the oysters, add two tablespoonfuls of
sherry to sauce. Make it very hot and pour it over.

                         LARDED OYSTERS BROILED

Lard with bacon as in preceding recipe, twenty-five fat oysters. Brush
an oyster broiler with melted butter and then cover it closely with the
oysters. Boil half cup of the oyster liquor, strain, put it in the
serving dish, add a tablespoonful of butter, half teaspoonful of salt,
dash of paprica. Now put the oysters over a clear fire, broil quickly on
one side, turn and broil the other. Be very careful to loosen the
oysters before opening the broiler. Lift the oysters into the sauce and
serve immediately.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Transcriber’s Note

Punctuation was normalized.

The following printer’s errors were fixed:

  bown —> brown

  The spelling of "tablespoonfuls" was standardized.

Repeating titles in the front matter were removed.
