[Illustration]

THE TALE OF

PETER RABBIT

BY

BEATRIX POTTER

[Illustration]

FREDERICK WARNE

FREDERICK WARNE

First published 1902

Frederick Warne & Co., 1902

Printed and bound in Great Britain by William Clowes Limited, Beccles
and London

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Once upon a time there were four little Rabbits, and their names
were--

          Flopsy,
       Mopsy,
   Cotton-tail,
and Peter.

They lived with their Mother in a sand-bank, underneath the root of a
very big fir-tree.

'Now my dears,' said old Mrs. Rabbit one morning, 'you may go into
the fields or down the lane, but don't go into Mr. McGregor's garden:
your Father had an accident there; he was put in a pie by Mrs.
McGregor.'

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

'Now run along, and don't get into mischief. I am going out.'

Then old Mrs. Rabbit took a basket and her umbrella, and went through
the wood to the baker's. She bought a loaf of brown bread and five
currant buns.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Flopsy, Mopsy, and Cottontail, who were good little bunnies, went
down the lane to gather blackberries:

But Peter, who was very naughty, ran straight away to Mr. McGregor's
garden, and squeezed under the gate!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

First he ate some lettuces and some French beans; and then he ate
some radishes;

And then, feeling rather sick, he went to look for some parsley.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

But round the end of a cucumber frame, whom should he meet but Mr.
McGregor!

Mr. McGregor was on his hands and knees planting out young cabbages,
but he jumped up and ran after Peter, waving a rake and calling out,
'Stop thief!'

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Peter was most dreadfully frightened; he rushed all over the garden,
for he had forgotten the way back to the gate.

He lost one of his shoes among the cabbages, and the other shoe
amongst the potatoes.

After losing them, he ran on four legs and went faster, so that I
think he might have got away altogether if he had not unfortunately
run into a gooseberry net, and got caught by the large buttons on his
jacket. It was a blue jacket with brass buttons, quite new.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Peter gave himself up for lost, and shed big tears; but his sobs were
overheard by some friendly sparrows, who flew to him in great
excitement, and implored him to exert himself.

Mr. McGregor came up with a sieve, which he intended to pop upon the
top of Peter; but Peter wriggled out just in time, leaving his jacket
behind him.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

And rushed into the tool-shed, and jumped into a can. It would have
been a beautiful thing to hide in, if it had not had so much water in it.

Mr. McGregor was quite sure that Peter was somewhere in the
tool-shed, perhaps hidden underneath a flower-pot. He began to turn
them over carefully, looking under each.

Presently Peter sneezed--'Kertyschoo!' Mr. McGregor was after him in
no time.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

And tried to put his foot upon Peter, who jumped out of a window,
upsetting three plants. The window was too small for Mr. McGregor, and
he was tired of running after Peter. He went back to his work.

Peter sat down to rest; he was out of breath and trembling with
fright, and he had not the least idea which way to go. Also he was
very damp with sitting in that can.

After a time he began to wander about, going lippity--lippity--not
very fast, and looking all round.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

He found a door in a wall; but it was locked, and there was no room
for a fat little rabbit to squeeze underneath.

An old mouse was running in and out over the stone doorstep, carrying
peas and beans to her family in the wood. Peter asked her the way to
the gate, but she had such a large pea in her mouth that she could not
answer. She only shook her head at him. Peter began to cry.

Then he tried to find his way straight across the garden, but he
became more and more puzzled. Presently, he came to a pond where Mr.
McGregor filled his water-cans. A white cat was staring at some
gold-fish, she sat very, very still, but now and then the tip of her
tail twitched as if it were alive. Peter thought it best to go away
without speaking to her; he had heard about cats from his cousin,
little Benjamin Bunny.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

He went back towards the tool-shed, but suddenly, quite close to him,
he heard the noise of a hoe--scr-r-ritch, scratch, scratch, scritch.
Peter scuttered underneath the bushes. But presently, as nothing
happened, he came out, and climbed upon a wheelbarrow and peeped over.
The first thing he saw was Mr. McGregor hoeing onions. His back was
turned towards Peter, and beyond him was the gate!

Peter got down very quietly off the wheelbarrow; and started running
as fast as he could go, along a straight walk behind some
black-currant bushes.

Mr. McGregor caught sight of him at the corner, but Peter did not
care. He slipped underneath the gate, and was safe at last in the wood
outside the garden.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Mr. McGregor hung up the little jacket and the shoes for a scare-crow
to frighten the blackbirds.

Peter never stopped running or looked behind him till he got home to
the big fir-tree.

He was so tired that he flopped down upon the nice soft sand on the
floor of the rabbit-hole and shut his eyes. His mother was busy
cooking; she wondered what he had done with his clothes. It was the
second little jacket and pair of shoes that Peter had lost in a
fortnight!

[Illustration]

I am sorry to say that Peter was not very well during the evening.

His mother put him to bed, and made some camomile tea; and she gave a
dose of it to Peter!

'One table-spoonful to be taken at bed-time.'

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

But Flopsy, Mopsy, and Cotton-tail had bread and milk and
blackberries for supper.

THE END


[Illustration]

    THE TALE OF

    BENJAMIN BUNNY

    BY
    BEATRIX POTTER

    AUTHOR OF "THE TAIL OF PETER RABBIT," &C.

[Illustration]

    FREDERICK WARNE & CO., INC.

    NEW YORK

    Copyright, 1904
    BY
    FREDERICK WARNE & Co.

    Copyright renewed, 1932

    FOR THE CHILDREN OF SAWREY

    FROM
    OLD MR. BUNNY

[Illustration]

One morning a little rabbit sat on a bank.

He pricked his ears and listened to the trit-trot, trit-trot of a pony.

A gig was coming along the road; it was driven by Mr. McGregor, and beside
him sat Mrs. McGregor in her best bonnet.

As soon as they had passed, little Benjamin Bunny slid down into the road,
and set off--with a hop, skip, and a jump--to call upon his relations, who
lived in the wood at the back of Mr. McGregor's garden.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

That wood was full of rabbit holes; and in the neatest, sandiest hole of
all lived Benjamin's aunt and his cousins--Flopsy, Mopsy, Cotton-tail, and
Peter.

Old Mrs. Rabbit was a widow; she earned her living by knitting rabbit-wool
mittens and muffatees (I once bought a pair at a bazaar). She also sold
herbs, and rosemary tea, and rabbit-tobacco (which is what we call
lavender).

Little Benjamin did not very much want to see his Aunt.

He came round the back of the fir-tree, and nearly tumbled upon the top of
his Cousin Peter.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Peter was sitting by himself. He looked poorly, and was dressed in a red
cotton pocket-handkerchief.

"Peter," said little Benjamin, in a whisper, "who has got your clothes?"

Peter replied, "The scarecrow in Mr. McGregor's garden," and described how
he had been chased about the garden, and had dropped his shoes and coat.

Little Benjamin sat down beside his cousin and assured him that Mr.
McGregor had gone out in a gig, and Mrs. McGregor also; and certainly for
the day, because she was wearing her best bonnet.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Peter said he hoped that it would rain.

At this point old Mrs. Rabbit's voice was heard inside the rabbit hole,
calling: "Cotton-tail! Cotton-tail! fetch some more camomile!"

Peter said he thought he might feel better if he went for a walk.

They went away hand in hand, and got upon the flat top of the wall at the
bottom of the wood. From here they looked down into Mr. McGregor's garden.
Peter's coat and shoes were plainly to be seen upon the scarecrow, topped
with an old tam-o'-shanter of Mr. McGregor's.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Little Benjamin said: "It spoils people's clothes to squeeze under a gate;
the proper way to get in is to climb down a pear-tree."

Peter fell down head first; but it was of no consequence, as the bed below
was newly raked and quite soft.

It had been sown with lettuces.

They left a great many odd little footmarks all over the bed, especially
little Benjamin, who was wearing clogs.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Little Benjamin said that the first thing to be done was to get back
Peter's clothes, in order that they might be able to use the
pocket-handkerchief.

They took them off the scarecrow. There had been rain during the night;
there was water in the shoes, and the coat was somewhat shrunk.

Benjamin tried on the tam-o'-shanter, but it was too big for him.

Then he suggested that they should fill the pocket-handkerchief with
onions, as a little present for his Aunt.

Peter did not seem to be enjoying himself; he kept hearing noises.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Benjamin, on the contrary, was perfectly at home, and ate a lettuce leaf.
He said that he was in the habit of coming to the garden with his father
to get lettuces for their Sunday dinner.

(The name of little Benjamin's papa was old Mr. Benjamin Bunny.)

The lettuces certainly were very fine.

Peter did not eat anything; he said he should like to go home. Presently
he dropped half the onions.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Little Benjamin said that it was not possible to get back up the pear-tree
with a load of vegetables. He led the way boldly towards the other end of
the garden. They went along a little walk on planks, under a sunny, red
brick wall.

The mice sat on their doorsteps cracking cherry-stones; they winked at
Peter Rabbit and little Benjamin Bunny.

Presently Peter let the pocket-handkerchief go again.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

They got amongst flower-pots, and frames, and tubs. Peter heard noises
worse than ever; his eyes were as big as lolly-pops!

He was a step or two in front of his cousin when he suddenly stopped.

This is what those little rabbits saw round that corner!

Little Benjamin took one look, and then, in half a minute less than no
time, he hid himself and Peter and the onions underneath a large
basket....

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

The cat got up and stretched herself, and came and sniffed at the basket.

Perhaps she liked the smell of onions!

Anyway, she sat down upon the top of the basket.

She sat there for _five hours_.

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot draw you a picture of Peter and Benjamin underneath the basket,
because it was quite dark, and because the smell of onions was fearful; it
made Peter Rabbit and little Benjamin cry.

The sun got round behind the wood, and it was quite late in the afternoon;
but still the cat sat upon the basket.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

At length there was a pitter-patter, pitter-patter, and some bits of
mortar fell from the wall above.

The cat looked up and saw old Mr. Benjamin Bunny prancing along the top of
the wall of the upper terrace.

He was smoking a pipe of rabbit-tobacco, and had a little switch in his
hand.

He was looking for his son.

Old Mr. Bunny had no opinion whatever of cats.

He took a tremendous jump off the top of the wall on to the top of the
cat, and cuffed it off the basket, and kicked it into the greenhouse,
scratching off a handful of fur.

The cat was too much surprised to scratch back.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

When old Mr. Bunny had driven the cat into the greenhouse, he locked the
door.

Then he came back to the basket and took out his son Benjamin by the ears,
and whipped him with the little switch.

Then he took out his nephew Peter.

Then he took out the handkerchief of onions, and marched out of the
garden.

[Illustration]

When Mr. McGregor returned about half an hour later he observed several
things which perplexed him.

It looked as though some person had been walking all over the garden in a
pair of clogs--only the footmarks were too ridiculously little!

Also he could not understand how the cat could have managed to shut
herself up _inside_ the greenhouse, locking the door upon the _outside_.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

When Peter got home his mother forgave him, because she was so glad to see
that he had found his shoes and coat. Cotton-tail and Peter folded up the
pocket-handkerchief, and old Mrs. Rabbit strung up the onions and hung
them from the kitchen ceiling, with the bunches of herbs and the
rabbit-tobacco.

THE END


THE TALE OF
SQUIRREL NUTKIN

BY
BEATRIX POTTER

_Author of_
"_The Tale of Peter Rabbit_"

[Illustration]

FREDERICK WARNE

[Illustration]

FREDERICK WARNE

1903 by Frederick Warne & Co.

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
William Clowes Limited, Beccles and London

A STORY FOR NORAH

[Illustration]

This is a Tale about a tail--a tail that belonged to a little red
squirrel, and his name was Nutkin.

He had a brother called Twinkleberry, and a great many cousins: they lived
in a wood at the edge of a lake.

[Illustration]

In the middle of the lake there is an island covered with trees and nut
bushes; and amongst those trees stands a hollow oak-tree, which is the
house of an owl who is called Old Brown.

[Illustration]

One autumn when the nuts were ripe, and the leaves on the hazel bushes
were golden and green--Nutkin and Twinkleberry and all the other little
squirrels came out of the wood, and down to the edge of the lake.

[Illustration]

They made little rafts out of twigs, and they paddled away over the water
to Owl Island to gather nuts.

Each squirrel had a little sack and a large oar, and spread out his tail
for a sail.

[Illustration]

They also took with them an offering of three fat mice as a present for
Old Brown, and put them down upon his door-step.

Then Twinkleberry and the other little squirrels each made a low bow, and
said politely--

"Old Mr. Brown, will you favour us with permission to gather nuts upon
your island?"

[Illustration]

But Nutkin was excessively impertinent in his manners. He bobbed up and
down like a little red _cherry_, singing--

    "Riddle me, riddle me, rot-tot-tote!
     A little wee man, in a red red coat!
     A staff in his hand, and a stone in his throat;
     If you'll tell me this riddle, I'll give you a groat."

Now this riddle is as old as the hills; Mr. Brown paid no attention
whatever to Nutkin.

He shut his eyes obstinately and went to sleep.

[Illustration]

The squirrels filled their little sacks with nuts, and sailed away home in
the evening.

[Illustration]

But next morning they all came back again to Owl Island; and Twinkleberry
and the others brought a fine fat mole, and laid it on the stone in front
of Old Brown's doorway, and said--

"Mr. Brown, will you favour us with your gracious permission to gather
some more nuts?"

[Illustration]

But Nutkin, who had no respect, began to dance up and down, tickling old
Mr. Brown with a _nettle_ and singing--

    "Old Mr. B! Riddle-me-ree!
     Hitty Pitty within the wall,
     Hitty Pitty without the wall;
     If you touch Hitty Pitty,
     Hitty Pitty will bite you!"

Mr. Brown woke up suddenly and carried the mole into his house.

[Illustration]

He shut the door in Nutkin's face. Presently a little thread of blue
_smoke_ from a wood fire came up from the top of the tree, and Nutkin
peeped through the key-hole and sang--

    "A house full, a hole full!
     And you cannot gather a bowl-full!"

[Illustration]

The squirrels searched for nuts all over the island and filled their
little sacks.

But Nutkin gathered oak-apples--yellow and scarlet--and sat upon a
beech-stump playing marbles, and watching the door of old Mr. Brown.

[Illustration]

On the third day the squirrels got up very early and went fishing; they
caught seven fat minnows as a present for Old Brown.

They paddled over the lake and landed under a crooked chestnut tree on Owl
Island.

[Illustration]

Twinkleberry and six other little squirrels each carried a fat minnow; but
Nutkin, who had no nice manners, brought no present at all. He ran in
front, singing--

    "The man in the wilderness said to me,
    'How many strawberries grow in the sea?'
     I answered him as I thought good--
     'As many red herrings as grow in the wood.'"

But old Mr. Brown took no interest in riddles--not even when the answer
was provided for him.

[Illustration]

On the fourth day the squirrels brought a present of six fat beetles,
which were as good as plums in _plum-pudding_ for Old Brown. Each beetle
was wrapped up carefully in a dock-leaf, fastened with a pine-needle pin.

But Nutkin sang as rudely as ever--

     "Old Mr. B! riddle-me-ree
      Flour of England, fruit of Spain,
      Met together in a shower of rain;
      Put in a bag tied round with a string,
    If you'll tell me this riddle, I'll give you a ring!"

Which was ridiculous of Nutkin, because he had not got any ring to give to
Old Brown.

[Illustration]

The other squirrels hunted up and down the nut bushes; but Nutkin
gathered robin's pincushions off a briar bush, and stuck them full of
pine-needle pins.

[Illustration]

On the fifth day the squirrels brought a present of wild honey; it was so
sweet and sticky that they licked their fingers as they put it down upon
the stone. They had stolen it out of a bumble _bees'_ nest on the tippitty
top of the hill.

But Nutkin skipped up and down, singing--

    "Hum-a-bum! buzz! buzz! Hum-a-bum buzz!
      As I went over Tipple-tine
      I met a flock of bonny swine;
    Some yellow-nacked, some yellow backed!
      They were the very bonniest swine
      That e'er went over Tipple-tine."

[Illustration]

Old Mr. Brown turned up his eyes in disgust at the impertinence of Nutkin.

But he ate up the honey!

[Illustration]

The squirrels filled their little sacks with nuts.

But Nutkin sat upon a big flat rock, and played ninepins with a crab apple
and green fir-cones.

[Illustration]

On the sixth day, which was Saturday, the squirrels came again for the
last time; they brought a new-laid _egg_ in a little rush basket as a last
parting present for Old Brown.

But Nutkin ran in front laughing, and shouting--

    "Humpty Dumpty lies in the beck,
     With a white counterpane round his neck,
     Forty doctors and forty wrights,
     Cannot put Humpty Dumpty to rights!"

[Illustration]

Now old Mr. Brown took an interest in eggs; he opened one eye and shut it
again. But still he did not speak.

[Illustration]

Nutkin became more and more impertinent--

      "Old Mr. B! Old Mr. B!
    Hickamore, Hackamore, on the King's kitchen door;
    All the King's horses, and all the King's men,
    Couldn't drive Hickamore, Hackamore,
    Off the King's kitchen door."

Nutkin danced up and down like a _sunbeam_; but still Old Brown said
nothing at all.

[Illustration]

Nutkin began again--

    "Arthur O'Bower has broken his band,
     He comes roaring up the land!
     The King of Scots with all his power,
     Cannot turn Arthur of the Bower!"

Nutkin made a whirring noise to sound like the _wind_, and he took a
running jump right onto the head of Old Brown!...

Then all at once there was a flutterment and a scufflement and a loud
"Squeak!"

The other squirrels scuttered away into the bushes.

[Illustration]

When they came back very cautiously, peeping round the tree--there was Old
Brown sitting on his door-step, quite still, with his eyes closed, as if
nothing had happened.

       *       *       *       *       *

_But Nutkin was in his waistcoat pocket!_

[Illustration]

This looks like the end of the story; but it isn't.

[Illustration]

Old Brown carried Nutkin into his house, and held him up by the tail,
intending to skin him; but Nutkin pulled so very hard that his tail broke
in two, and he dashed up the staircase and escaped out of the attic
window.

[Illustration]

And to this day, if you meet Nutkin up a tree and ask him a riddle, he
will throw sticks at you, and stamp his feet and scold, and shout--

"Cuck-cuck-cuck-cur-r-r-cuck-k-k!"

THE END


THE TALE OF TWO BAD MICE

    FOR
    =W. M. L. W.=
    THE LITTLE GIRL
    WHO HAD THE DOLL'S HOUSE

[Illustration]

    THE TALE OF
    TWO BAD MICE

    BY
    BEATRIX POTTER

    _Author of
    'The Tale of Peter Rabbit,' &c._

    [Illustration]

    LONDON
    FREDERICK WARNE AND CO.
    AND NEW YORK
    1904
    [_All rights reserved_]

    COPYRIGHT 1904
    BY
    FREDERICK WARNE & CO.
    ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL.

[Illustration]

ONCE upon a time there was a very beautiful doll's-house; it was red
brick with white windows, and it had real muslin curtains and a front
door and a chimney.

IT belonged to two Dolls called Lucinda and Jane; at least it belonged
to Lucinda, but she never ordered meals.

Jane was the Cook; but she never did any cooking, because the dinner
had been bought ready-made, in a box full of shavings.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

THERE were two red lobsters and a ham, a fish, a pudding, and some
pears and oranges.

They would not come off the plates, but they were extremely beautiful.

ONE morning Lucinda and Jane had gone out for a drive in the doll's
perambulator. There was no one in the nursery, and it was very quiet.
Presently there was a little scuffling, scratching noise in a corner
near the fire-place, where there was a hole under the skirting-board.

Tom Thumb put out his head for a moment, and then popped it in again.

Tom Thumb was a mouse.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

A MINUTE afterwards, Hunca Munca, his wife, put her head out, too; and
when she saw that there was no one in the nursery, she ventured out on
the oilcloth under the coal-box.

THE doll's-house stood at the other side of the fire-place. Tom Thumb
and Hunca Munca went cautiously across the hearthrug. They pushed the
front door--it was not fast.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

TOM THUMB and Hunca Munca went upstairs and peeped into the
dining-room. Then they squeaked with joy!

Such a lovely dinner was laid out upon the table! There were tin
spoons, and lead knives and forks, and two dolly-chairs--all _so_
convenient!

TOM THUMB set to work at once to carve the ham. It was a beautiful
shiny yellow, streaked with red.

The knife crumpled up and hurt him; he put his finger in his mouth.

"It is not boiled enough; it is hard. You have a try, Hunca Munca."

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

HUNCA MUNCA stood up in her chair, and chopped at the ham with another
lead knife.

"It's as hard as the hams at the cheesemonger's," said Hunca Munca.

THE ham broke off the plate with a jerk, and rolled under the table.

"Let it alone," said Tom Thumb; "give me some fish, Hunca Munca!"

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

HUNCA MUNCA tried every tin spoon in turn; the fish was glued to the
dish.

Then Tom Thumb lost his temper. He put the ham in the middle of the
floor, and hit it with the tongs and with the shovel--bang, bang,
smash, smash!

The ham flew all into pieces, for underneath the shiny paint it was
made of nothing but plaster!

THEN there was no end to the rage and disappointment of Tom Thumb and
Hunca Munca. They broke up the pudding, the lobsters, the pears and the
oranges.

As the fish would not come off the plate, they put it into the red-hot
crinkly paper fire in the kitchen; but it would not burn either.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

TOM THUMB went up the kitchen chimney and looked out at the top--there
was no soot.

WHILE Tom Thumb was up the chimney, Hunca Munca had another
disappointment. She found some tiny canisters upon the dresser,
labelled--Rice--Coffee--Sago--but when she turned them upside down,
there was nothing inside except red and blue beads.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

THEN those mice set to work to do all the mischief they
could--especially Tom Thumb! He took Jane's clothes out of the chest of
drawers in her bedroom, and he threw them out of the top floor window.

But Hunca Munca had a frugal mind. After pulling half the feathers out
of Lucinda's bolster, she remembered that she herself was in want of a
feather bed.

WITH Tom Thumb's assistance she carried the bolster downstairs, and
across the hearth-rug. It was difficult to squeeze the bolster into the
mouse-hole; but they managed it somehow.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

THEN Hunca Munca went back and fetched a chair, a book-case, a
bird-cage, and several small odds and ends. The book-case and the
bird-cage refused to go into the mouse-hole.

HUNCA MUNCA left them behind the coal-box, and went to fetch a cradle.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

HUNCA MUNCA was just returning with another chair, when suddenly there
was a noise of talking outside upon the landing. The mice rushed back
to their hole, and the dolls came into the nursery.

WHAT a sight met the eyes of Jane and Lucinda!

Lucinda sat upon the upset kitchen stove and stared; and Jane leant
against the kitchen dresser and smiled--but neither of them made any
remark.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

THE book-case and the bird-cage were rescued from under the
coal-box--but Hunca Munca has got the cradle, and some of Lucinda's
clothes.

SHE also has some useful pots and pans, and several other things.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

THE little girl that the doll's-house belonged to, said,--"I will get
a doll dressed like a policeman!"

BUT the nurse said,--"I will set a mouse-trap!"

[Illustration]

SO that is the story of the two Bad Mice,--but they were not so very
very naughty after all, because Tom Thumb paid for everything he broke.

He found a crooked sixpence under the hearthrug; and upon Christmas
Eve, he and Hunca Munca stuffed it into one of the stockings of Lucinda
and Jane.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

AND very early every morning--before anybody is awake--Hunca Munca
comes with her dust-pan and her broom to sweep the Dollies' house!

    THE END.

    PRINTED BY
    EDMUND EVANS,
    THE RACQUET COURT PRESS,
    LONDON, S.E.


[Illustration]

THE TALE OF
TOM KITTEN

BY
BEATRIX POTTER

_Author of_
_"The Tale of Peter Rabbit", &c._

[Illustration]

FREDERICK WARNE

First published 1907

1907 by Frederick Warne & Co.

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
William Clowes Limited, Beccles and London

DEDICATED
TO ALL
PICKLES,
--ESPECIALLY TO THOSE THAT
GET UPON MY GARDEN WALL

[Illustration]

Once upon a time there were three little kittens, and their names were
Mittens, Tom Kitten, and Moppet.

They had dear little fur coats of their own; and they tumbled about the
doorstep and played in the dust.

But one day their mother--Mrs. Tabitha Twitchit--expected friends to tea;
so she fetched the kittens indoors, to wash and dress them, before the
fine company arrived.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

First she scrubbed their faces (this one is Moppet).

Then she brushed their fur, (this one is Mittens).

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Then she combed their tails and whiskers (this is Tom Kitten).

Tom was very naughty, and he scratched.

Mrs. Tabitha dressed Moppet and Mittens in clean pinafores and tuckers;
and then she took all sorts of elegant uncomfortable clothes out of a
chest of drawers, in order to dress up her son Thomas.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Tom Kitten was very fat, and he had grown; several buttons burst off. His
mother sewed them on again.

When the three kittens were ready, Mrs. Tabitha unwisely turned them out
into the garden, to be out of the way while she made hot buttered toast.

"Now keep your frocks clean, children! You must walk on your hind legs.
Keep away from the dirty ash-pit, and from Sally Henny Penny, and from the
pig-stye and the Puddle-Ducks."

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Moppet and Mittens walked down the garden path unsteadily. Presently they
trod upon their pinafores and fell on their noses.

When they stood up there were several green smears!

"Let us climb up the rockery, and sit on the garden wall," said Moppet.

They turned their pinafores back to front, and went up with a skip and a
jump; Moppet's white tucker fell down into the road.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Tom Kitten was quite unable to jump when walking upon his hind legs in
trousers. He came up the rockery by degrees, breaking the ferns, and
shedding buttons right and left.

He was all in pieces when he reached the top of the wall.

Moppet and Mittens tried to pull him together; his hat fell off, and the
rest of his buttons burst.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

While they were in difficulties, there was a pit pat paddle pat! and the
three Puddle-Ducks came along the hard high road, marching one behind the
other and doing the goose step--pit pat paddle pat! pit pat waddle pat!

They stopped and stood in a row, and stared up at the kittens. They had
very small eyes and looked surprised.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Then the two duck-birds, Rebeccah and Jemima Puddle-Duck, picked up the
hat and tucker and put them on.

Mittens laughed so that she fell off the wall. Moppet and Tom descended
after her; the pinafores and all the rest of Tom's clothes came off on the
way down.

"Come! Mr. Drake Puddle-Duck," said Moppet--"Come and help us to dress
him! Come and button up Tom!"

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Mr. Drake Puddle-Duck advanced in a slow sideways manner, and picked up
the various articles.

But he put them on _himself!_ They fitted him even worse than Tom Kitten.

"It's a very fine morning!" said Mr. Drake Puddle-Duck.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

And he and Jemima and Rebeccah Puddle-Duck set off up the road, keeping
step--pit pat, paddle pat! pit pat, waddle pat!

Then Tabitha Twitchit came down the garden and found her kittens on the
wall with no clothes on.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

She pulled them off the wall, smacked them, and took them back to the
house.

"My friends will arrive in a minute, and you are not fit to be seen; I am
affronted," said Mrs. Tabitha Twitchit.

She sent them upstairs; and I am sorry to say she told her friends that
they were in bed with the measles; which was not true.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Quite the contrary; they were not in bed: _not_ in the least.

Somehow there were very extraordinary noises over-head, which disturbed
the dignity and repose of the tea party.

And I think that some day I shall have to make another, larger, book, to
tell you more about Tom Kitten!

[Illustration]

As for the Puddle-Ducks--they went into a pond.

The clothes all came off directly, because there were no buttons.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

And Mr. Drake Puddle-Duck, and Jemima and Rebeccah, have been looking for
them ever since.


[Illustration]

THE TALE OF
MRS. TIGGY-WINKLE

BY
BEATRIX POTTER

_Author of
"The Tale of Peter Rabbit", &c._

[Illustration]

FREDERICK WARNE

FREDERICK WARNE

[Illustration]

           Penguin Books Ltd, Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
Viking Penguin Inc., 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York 10010, U.S.A.
        Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2801 John Street, Markham, Ontario, Canada L3R 1B4
  Penguin Books (N.Z.) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

                         First published 1905
                         This impression 1986
                     Universal Copyright Notice:
              Copyright © Frederick Warne & Co., 1905
     Copyright in all countries signatory to the Berne Convention

All rights reserved. Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved
above, no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in or
introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any
means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise),
without the prior written permission of both the copyright owner and the
above publisher of this book.

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
William Clowes Limited, Beccles and London

_for_

THE REAL LITTLE LUCIE
                OF NEWLANDS

[Illustration]

Once upon a time there was a little girl called Lucie, who lived at a farm
called Little-town. She was a good little girl--only she was always losing
her pocket-handkerchiefs!

One day little Lucie came into the farm-yard crying--oh, she did cry so!
"I've lost my pocket-handkin! Three handkins and a pinny! Have _you_ seen
them, Tabby Kitten?"

[Illustration]

The Kitten went on washing her white paws; so Lucie asked a speckled hen--

"Sally Henny-penny, have _you_ found three pocket-handkins?"

But the speckled hen ran into a barn, clucking--

"I go barefoot, barefoot, barefoot!"

[Illustration]

And then Lucie asked Cock Robin sitting on a twig.

Cock Robin looked sideways at Lucie with his bright black eye, and he flew
over a stile and away.

Lucie climbed upon the stile and looked up at the hill behind
Little-town--a hill that goes up--up--into the clouds as though it had no
top!

And a great way up the hill-side she thought she saw some white things
spread upon the grass.

[Illustration]

Lucie scrambled up the hill as fast as her stout legs would carry her; she
ran along a steep path-way--up and up--until Little-town was right away
down below--she could have dropped a pebble down the chimney!

[Illustration]

Presently she came to a spring, bubbling out from the hill-side.

Some one had stood a tin can upon a stone to catch the water--but the
water was already running over, for the can was no bigger than an egg-cup!
And where the sand upon the path was wet--there were foot-marks of a
_very_ small person.

Lucie ran on, and on.

[Illustration]

The path ended under a big rock. The grass was short and green, and there
were clothes--props cut from bracken stems, with lines of plaited rushes,
and a heap of tiny clothes pins--but no pocket-handkerchiefs!

But there was something else--a door! straight into the hill; and inside
it some one was singing--

    "Lily-white and clean, oh!
     With little frills between, oh!
      Smooth and hot--red rusty spot
     Never here be seen, oh!"

[Illustration]

Lucie, knocked--once--twice, and interrupted the song. A little frightened
voice called out "Who's that?"

Lucie opened the door: and what do you think there was inside the hill?--a
nice clean kitchen with a flagged floor and wooden beams--just like any
other farm kitchen. Only the ceiling was so low that Lucie's head nearly
touched it; and the pots and pans were small, and so was everything
there.

[Illustration]

There was a nice hot singey smell; and at the table, with an iron in her
hand stood a very stout short person staring anxiously at Lucie.

Her print gown was tucked up, and she was wearing a large apron over her
striped petticoat. Her little black nose went sniffle, sniffle, snuffle,
and her eyes went twinkle, twinkle; and underneath her cap--where Lucie
had yellow curls--that little person had PRICKLES!

[Illustration]

"Who are you?" said Lucie. "Have you seen my pocket-handkins?"

The little person made a bob-curtsey--"Oh, yes, if you please'm; my name
is Mrs. Tiggy-winkle; oh, yes if you please'm, I'm an excellent
clear-starcher!" And she took something out of a clothes-basket, and
spread it on the ironing-blanket.

[Illustration]

"What's that thing?" said Lucie--"that's not my pocket-handkin?"

"Oh no, if you please'm; that's a little scarlet waist-coat belonging to
Cock Robin!"

And she ironed it and folded it, and put it on one side.

[Illustration]

Then she took something else off a clothes-horse--

"That isn't my pinny?" said Lucie.

"Oh no, if you please'm; that's a damask table-cloth belonging to Jenny
Wren; look how it's stained with currant wine! It's very bad to wash!"
said Mrs. Tiggy-winkle.

[Illustration]

Mrs. Tiggy-winkle's nose went sniffle, sniffle, snuffle, and her eyes went
twinkle, twinkle; and she fetched another hot iron from the fire.

[Illustration]

"There's one of my pocket-handkins!" cried Lucie--"and there's my pinny!"

Mrs. Tiggy-winkle ironed it, and goffered it, and shook out the frills.

"Oh that _is_ lovely!" said Lucie.

[Illustration]

"And what are those long yellow things with fingers like gloves?"

"Oh, that's a pair of stockings belonging to Sally Henny-penny--look how
she's worn the heels out with scratching in the yard! She'll very soon go
barefoot!" said Mrs. Tiggy-winkle.

[Illustration]

"Why, there's another handkersniff--but it isn't mine; it's red?"

"Oh no, if you please'm; that one belongs to old Mrs. Rabbit; and it _did_
so smell of onions! I've had to wash it separately, I can't get out the
smell."

"There's another one of mine," said Lucie.

[Illustration]

"What are those funny little white things?"

"That's a pair of mittens belonging to Tabby Kitten; I only have to iron
them; she washes them herself."

"There's my last pocket-handkin!" said Lucie.

[Illustration]

"And what are you dipping into the basin of starch?"

"They're little dicky shirt-fronts belonging to Tom Titmouse--most
terrible particular!" said Mrs. Tiggy-winkle. "Now I've finished my
ironing; I'm going to air some clothes."

[Illustration]

"What are these dear soft fluffy things?" said Lucie.

"Oh those are woolly coats belonging to the little lambs at Skelghyl."

"Will their jackets take off?" asked Lucie.

"Oh yes, if you please'm; look at the sheep-mark on the shoulder. And
here's one marked for Gatesgarth, and three that come from Little-town.
They're _always_ marked at washing!" said Mrs. Tiggy-winkle.

[Illustration]

And she hung up all sorts and sizes of clothes--small brown coats of mice;
and one velvety black moleskin waist-coat; and a red tailcoat with no tail
belonging to Squirrel Nutkin; and a very much shrunk blue jacket belonging
to Peter Rabbit; and a petticoat, not marked, that had gone lost in the
washing--and at last the basket was empty!

[Illustration]

"Then Mrs. Tiggy-winkle made tea--a cup for herself and a cup for Lucie.
They sat before the fire on a bench and looked sideways at one another.
Mrs. Tiggy-winkle's hand, holding the tea-cup, was very very brown, and
very very wrinkly with the soap-suds; and all through her gown and her
cap, there were _hair-pins_ sticking wrong end out; so that Lucie didn't
like to sit too near her.

[Illustration]

When they had finished tea, they tied up the clothes in bundles; and
Lucie's pocket-handkerchiefs were folded up inside her clean pinny, and
fastened with a silver safety-pin.

And then they made up the fire with turf, and came out and locked the
door, and hid the key under the door-sill.

[Illustration]

Then away down the hill trotted Lucie and Mrs. Tiggy-winkle with the
bundles of clothes!

All the way down the path little animals came out of the fern to meet
them; the very first that they met were Peter Rabbit and Benjamin Bunny!

[Illustration]

And she gave them their nice clean clothes; and all the little animals and
birds were so very much obliged to dear Mrs. Tiggy-winkle.

[Illustration]

So that at the bottom of the hill when they came to the stile, there was
nothing left to carry except Lucie's one little bundle.

[Illustration]

Lucie scrambled up the stile with the bundle in her hand; and then she
turned to say "Good-night," and to thank the washer-woman--But what a
_very_ odd thing! Mrs. Tiggy-winkle had not waited either for thanks or
for the washing bill!

She was running running running up the hill--and where was her white
frilled cap? and her shawl? and her gown--and her petticoat?

[Illustration]

And _how_ small she had grown--and _how_ brown--and covered with PRICKLES!

Why! Mrs. Tiggy-winkle was nothing but a HEDGEHOG.

       *       *       *       *       *

    (Now some people say that little Lucie had been asleep upon the
    stile--but then how could she have found three clean
    pocket-handkins and a pinny, pinned with a silver safety-pin?

    And besides--_I_ have seen that door into the back of the hill
    called Cat Bells--and besides _I_ am very well acquainted with
    dear Mrs. Tiggy-winkle!)


[Transcriber's Note: This book is heavily illustrated; references to the
illustrations have been removed from this text version. Please look for
the fully illustrated html version at https://www.gutenberg.org.]

THE TALE OF
MR. JEREMY FISHER

BY
BEATRIX POTTER

_Author of_
_"The Tale of Peter Rabbit," &c._

FREDERICK WARNE & CO., INC.
NEW YORK

COPYRIGHT, 1906
BY
FREDERICK WARNE & CO

FOR
STEPHANIE
FROM
COUSIN B.

Once upon a time there was a frog called Mr. Jeremy Fisher; he lived in a
little damp house amongst the buttercups at the edge of a pond.

The water was all slippy-sloppy in the larder and in the back passage.

But Mr. Jeremy liked getting his feet wet; nobody ever scolded him, and he
never caught a cold!

He was quite pleased when he looked out and saw large drops of rain,
splashing in the pond--

"I will get some worms and go fishing and catch a dish of minnows for my
dinner," said Mr. Jeremy Fisher. "If I catch more than five fish, I will
invite my friends Mr. Alderman Ptolemy Tortoise and Sir Isaac Newton. The
Alderman, however, eats salad."

Mr. Jeremy put on a macintosh, and a pair of shiny goloshes; he took his
rod and basket, and set off with enormous hops to the place where he kept
his boat.

The boat was round and green, and very like the other lily-leaves. It was
tied to a water-plant in the middle of the pond.

Mr. Jeremy took a reed pole, and pushed the boat out into open water. "I
know a good place for minnows," said Mr. Jeremy Fisher.

Mr. Jeremy stuck his pole into the mud and fastened the boat to it.

Then he settled himself cross-legged and arranged his fishing tackle. He
had the dearest little red float. His rod was a tough stalk of grass, his
line was a fine long white horse-hair, and he tied a little wriggling worm
at the end.

The rain trickled down his back, and for nearly an hour he stared at the
float.

"This is getting tiresome, I think I should like some lunch," said Mr.
Jeremy Fisher.

He punted back again amongst the water-plants, and took some lunch out of
his basket.

"I will eat a butterfly sandwich, and wait till the shower is over," said
Mr. Jeremy Fisher.

A great big water-beetle came up underneath the lily leaf and tweaked the
toe of one of his goloshes.

Mr. Jeremy crossed his legs up shorter, out of reach, and went on eating
his sandwich.

Once or twice something moved about with a rustle and a splash amongst
the rushes at the side of the pond.

"I trust that is not a rat," said Mr. Jeremy Fisher; "I think I had better
get away from here."

Mr. Jeremy shoved the boat out again a little way, and dropped in the
bait. There was a bite almost directly; the float gave a tremendous
bobbit!

"A minnow! a minnow! I have him by the nose!" cried Mr. Jeremy Fisher,
jerking up his rod.

But what a horrible surprise! Instead of a smooth fat minnow, Mr. Jeremy
landed little Jack Sharp the stickleback, covered with spines!

The stickleback floundered about the boat, pricking and snapping until he
was quite out of breath. Then he jumped back into the water.

And a shoal of other little fishes put their heads out, and laughed at
Mr. Jeremy Fisher.

And while Mr. Jeremy sat disconsolately on the edge of his boat--sucking
his sore fingers and peering down into the water--a _much_ worse thing
happened; a really _frightful_ thing it would have been, if Mr. Jeremy had
not been wearing a macintosh!

A great big enormous trout came up--ker-pflop-p-p-p! with a splash--and
it seized Mr. Jeremy with a snap, "Ow! Ow! Ow!"--and then it turned and
dived down to the bottom of the pond!

But the trout was so displeased with the taste of the macintosh, that in
less than half a minute it spat him out again; and the only thing it
swallowed was Mr. Jeremy's goloshes.

Mr. Jeremy bounced up to the surface of the water, like a cork and the
bubbles out of a soda water bottle; and he swam with all his might to the
edge of the pond.

He scrambled out on the first bank he came to, and he hopped home across
the meadow with his macintosh all in tatters.

"What a mercy that was not a pike!" said Mr. Jeremy Fisher. "I have lost
my rod and basket; but it does not much matter, for I am sure I should
never have dared to go fishing again!"

He put some sticking plaster on his fingers, and his friends both came to
dinner. He could not offer them fish, but he had something else in his
larder.

Sir Isaac Newton wore his black and gold waistcoat,

And Mr. Alderman Ptolemy Tortoise brought a salad with him in a string
bag.

And instead of a nice dish of minnows--they had a roasted grasshopper
with lady-bird sauce; which frogs consider a beautiful treat; but _I_
think it must have been nasty!

THE END


[Illustration]

THE TALE OF MR. TOD

BY

BEATRIX POTTER

_Author of "The Tale of Peter Rabbit," etc._

[Illustration]

FREDERICK WARNE & CO., INC. NEW YORK

COPYRIGHT, 1912
BY
FREDERICK WARNE & Co.

_Copyright renewed 1940_
(_All rights reserved_)

PRINTED AND BOUND IN THE USA
ROSE PRINTING CO INC

ISBN O 7232 0605 8

12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 (C)

FOR
FRANCIS WILLIAM OF ULVA
----SOMEDAY!

[Illustration]

THE TALE OF MR. TOD

I have made many books about well-behaved people. Now, for a change, I
am going to make a story about two disagreeable people, called Tommy
Brock and Mr. Tod.

Nobody could call Mr. Tod "nice." The rabbits could not bear him; they
could smell him half a mile off. He was of a wandering habit and he had
foxey whiskers; they never knew where he would be next.

[Illustration]

One day he was living in a stick-house in the coppice, causing terror to
the family of old Mr. Benjamin Bouncer. Next day he moved into a pollard
willow near the lake, frightening the wild ducks and the water rats.

In winter and early spring he might generally be found in an earth
amongst the rocks at the top of Bull Banks, under Oatmeal Crag.

He had half a dozen houses, but he was seldom at home.

The houses were not always empty when Mr. Tod moved _out_; because
sometimes Tommy Brock moved _in_; (without asking leave).

Tommy Brock was a short bristly fat waddling person with a grin; he
grinned all over his face. He was not nice in his habits. He ate wasp
nests and frogs and worms; and he waddled about by moonlight, digging
things up.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

His clothes were very dirty; and as he slept in the day-time, he always
went to bed in his boots. And the bed which he went to bed in, was
generally Mr. Tod's.

Now Tommy Brock did occasionally eat rabbit-pie; but it was only very
little young ones occasionally, when other food was really scarce. He
was friendly with old Mr. Bouncer; they agreed in disliking the wicked
otters and Mr. Tod; they often talked over that painful subject.

Old Mr. Bouncer was stricken in years. He sat in the spring sunshine
outside the burrow, in a muffler; smoking a pipe of rabbit tobacco.

He lived with his son Benjamin Bunny and his daughter-in-law Flopsy, who
had a young family. Old Mr. Bouncer was in charge of the family that
afternoon, because Benjamin and Flopsy had gone out.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

The little rabbit-babies were just old enough to open their blue eyes
and kick. They lay in a fluffy bed of rabbit wool and hay, in a shallow
burrow, separate from the main rabbit hole. To tell the truth--old Mr.
Bouncer had forgotten them.

He sat in the sun, and conversed cordially with Tommy Brock, who was
passing through the wood with a sack and a little spud which he used for
digging, and some mole traps. He complained bitterly about the
scarcity of pheasants' eggs, and accused Mr. Tod of poaching them. And
the otters had cleared off all the frogs while he was asleep in
winter--"I have not had a good square meal for a fortnight, I am living
on pig-nuts. I shall have to turn vegetarian and eat my own tail!" said
Tommy Brock.

[Illustration]

It was not much of a joke, but it tickled old Mr. Bouncer; because Tommy
Brock was so fat and stumpy and grinning.

So old Mr. Bouncer laughed; and pressed Tommy Brock to come inside, to
taste a slice of seed-cake and "a glass of my daughter Flopsy's cowslip
wine." Tommy Brock squeezed himself into the rabbit hole with alacrity.

[Illustration]

Then old Mr. Bouncer smoked another pipe, and gave Tommy Brock a cabbage
leaf cigar which was so very strong that it made Tommy Brock grin more
than ever; and the smoke filled the burrow. Old Mr. Bouncer coughed and
laughed; and Tommy Brock puffed and grinned.

And Mr. Bouncer laughed and coughed, and shut his eyes because of the
cabbage smoke....

When Flopsy and Benjamin came back--old Mr. Bouncer woke up. Tommy Brock
and all the young rabbit-babies had disappeared!

Mr. Bouncer would not confess that he had admitted anybody into the
rabbit hole. But the smell of badger was undeniable; and there were
round heavy footmarks in the sand. He was in disgrace; Flopsy wrung her
ears, and slapped him.

[Illustration]

Benjamin Bunny set off at once after Tommy Brock.

There was not much difficulty in tracking him; he had left his foot-mark
and gone slowly up the winding footpath through the wood. Here he had
rooted up the moss and wood sorrel. There he had dug quite a deep hole
for dog darnel; and had set a mole trap. A little stream crossed the
way. Benjamin skipped lightly over dry-foot; the badger's heavy steps
showed plainly in the mud.

The path led to a part of the thicket where the trees had been cleared;
there were leafy oak stumps, and a sea of blue hyacinths--but the smell
that made Benjamin stop, was _not_ the smell of flowers!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Mr. Tod's stick house was before him and, for once, Mr. Tod was at home.
There was not only a foxey flavour in proof of it--there was smoke
coming out of the broken pail that served as a chimney.

Benjamin Bunny sat up, staring; his whiskers twitched. Inside the stick
house somebody dropped a plate, and said something. Benjamin stamped his
foot, and bolted.

He never stopped till he came to the other side of the wood. Apparently
Tommy Brock had turned the same way. Upon the top of the wall, there
were again the marks of badger; and some ravellings of a sack had caught
on a briar.

Benjamin climbed over the wall, into a meadow. He found another mole
trap newly set; he was still upon the track of Tommy Brock. It was
getting late in the afternoon. Other rabbits were coming out to enjoy
the evening air. One of them in a blue coat by himself, was busily
hunting for dandelions.--"Cousin Peter! Peter Rabbit, Peter Rabbit!"
shouted Benjamin Bunny.

The blue coated rabbit sat up with pricked ears--

[Illustration]

"Whatever is the matter, Cousin Benjamin? Is it a cat? or John Stoat
Ferret?"

"No, no, no! He's bagged my family--Tommy Brock--in a sack--have you
seen him?"

"Tommy Brock? how many, Cousin Benjamin?"

"Seven, Cousin Peter, and all of them twins! Did he come this way?
Please tell me quick!"

[Illustration]

"Yes, yes; not ten minutes since ... he said they were _caterpillars_; I
did think they were kicking rather hard, for caterpillars."

"Which way? which way has he gone, Cousin Peter?"

"He had a sack with something 'live in it; I watched him set a mole
trap. Let me use my mind, Cousin Benjamin; tell me from the beginning."
Benjamin did so.

[Illustration]

"My Uncle Bouncer has displayed a lamentable want of discretion for his
years;" said Peter reflectively, "but there are two hopeful
circumstances. Your family is alive and kicking; and Tommy Brock has had
refreshment. He will probably go to sleep, and keep them for breakfast."
"Which way?" "Cousin Benjamin, compose yourself. I know very well which
way. Because Mr. Tod was at home in the stick-house he has gone to Mr.
Tod's other house, at the top of Bull Banks. I partly know, because he
offered to leave any message at Sister Cottontail's; he said he would be
passing." (Cottontail had married a black rabbit, and gone to live on
the hill).

Peter hid his dandelions, and accompanied the afflicted parent, who was
all of a twitter. They crossed several fields and began to climb the
hill; the tracks of Tommy Brock were plainly to be seen. He seemed to
have put down the sack every dozen yards, to rest.

"He must be very puffed; we are close behind him, by the scent. What a
nasty person!" said Peter.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

The sunshine was still warm and slanting on the hill pastures. Half way
up, Cottontail was sitting in her doorway, with four or five half-grown
little rabbits playing about her; one black and the others brown.

Cottontail had seen Tommy Brock passing in the distance. Asked whether
her husband was at home she replied that Tommy Brock had rested twice
while she watched him.

He had nodded, and pointed to the sack, and seemed doubled up with
laughing.--"Come away, Peter; he will be cooking them; come quicker!"
said Benjamin Bunny.

They climbed up and up;--"He was at home; I saw his black ears peeping
out of the hole." "They live too near the rocks to quarrel with their
neighbours. Come on, Cousin Benjamin!"

When they came near the wood at the top of Bull Banks, they went
cautiously. The trees grew amongst heaped up rocks; and there, beneath a
crag--Mr. Tod had made one of his homes. It was at the top of a steep
bank; the rocks and bushes overhung it. The rabbits crept up carefully,
listening and peeping.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This house was something between a cave, a prison, and a tumbledown
pig-stye. There was a strong door, which was shut and locked.

The setting sun made the window panes glow like red flame; but the
kitchen fire was not alight. It was neatly laid with dry sticks, as the
rabbits could see, when they peeped through the window.

Benjamin sighed with relief.

[Illustration]

But there were preparations upon the kitchen table which made him
shudder. There was an immense empty pie-dish of blue willow pattern, and
a large carving knife and fork, and a chopper.

At the other end of the table was a partly unfolded tablecloth, a plate,
a tumbler, a knife and fork, salt-cellar, mustard and a chair--in short,
preparations for one person's supper.

[Illustration]

No person was to be seen, and no young rabbits. The kitchen was empty
and silent; the clock had run down. Peter and Benjamin flattened their
noses against the window, and stared into the dusk.

Then they scrambled round the rocks to the other side of the house. It
was damp and smelly, and overgrown with thorns and briars.

The rabbits shivered in their shoes.

"Oh my poor rabbit babies! What a dreadful place; I shall never see them
again!" sighed Benjamin.

They crept up to the bedroom window. It was closed and bolted like the
kitchen. But there were signs that this window had been recently open;
the cobwebs were disturbed, and there were fresh dirty footmarks upon
the window-sill.

The room inside was so dark, that at first they could make out nothing;
but they could hear a noise--a slow deep regular snoring grunt. And as
their eyes became accustomed to the darkness, they perceived that
somebody was asleep on Mr. Tod's bed, curled up under the blanket.--"He
has gone to bed in his boots," whispered Peter.

[Illustration]

Benjamin, who was all of a twitter, pulled Peter off the window-sill.

Tommy Brock's snores continued, grunty and regular from Mr. Tod's bed.
Nothing could be seen of the young family.

The sun had set; an owl began to hoot in the wood. There were many
unpleasant things lying about, that had much better have been buried;
rabbit bones and skulls, and chickens' legs and other horrors. It was a
shocking place, and very dark.

They went back to the front of the house, and tried in every way to move
the bolt of the kitchen window. They tried to push up a rusty nail
between the window sashes; but it was of no use, especially without a
light.

[Illustration]

They sat side by side outside the window, whispering and listening.

In half an hour the moon rose over the wood. It shone full and clear and
cold, upon the house amongst the rocks, and in at the kitchen window.
But alas, no little rabbit babies were to be seen!

The moonbeams twinkled on the carving knife and the pie dish, and made a
path of brightness across the dirty floor.

The light showed a little door in a wall beside the kitchen
fireplace--a little iron door belonging to a brick oven, of that
old-fashioned sort that used to be heated with faggots of wood.

And presently at the same moment Peter and Benjamin noticed that
whenever they shook the window--the little door opposite shook in
answer. The young family were alive; shut up in the oven!

[Illustration]

Benjamin was so excited that it was a mercy he did not awake Tommy
Brock, whose snores continued solemnly in Mr. Tod's bed.

But there really was not very much comfort in the discovery. They could
not open the window; and although the young family was alive--the little
rabbits were quite incapable of letting themselves out; they were not
old enough to crawl.

After much whispering, Peter and Benjamin decided to dig a tunnel. They
began to burrow a yard or two lower down the bank. They hoped that they
might be able to work between the large stones under the house; the
kitchen floor was so dirty that it was impossible to say whether it was
made of earth or flags.

[Illustration]

They dug and dug for hours. They could not tunnel straight on account of
stones; but by the end of the night they were under the kitchen floor.
Benjamin was on his back, scratching upwards. Peter's claws were worn
down; he was outside the tunnel, shuffling sand away. He called out that
it was morning--sunrise; and that the jays were making a noise down
below in the woods.

Benjamin Bunny came out of the dark tunnel, shaking the sand from his
ears; he cleaned his face with his paws. Every minute the sun shone
warmer on the top of the hill. In the valley there was a sea of white
mist, with golden tops of trees showing through.

Again from the fields down below in the mist there came the angry cry of
a jay--followed by the sharp yelping bark of a fox!

Then those two rabbits lost their heads completely. They did the most
foolish thing that they could have done. They rushed into their short
new tunnel, and hid themselves at the top end of it, under Mr. Tod's
kitchen floor.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Mr. Tod was coming up Bull Banks, and he was in the very worst of
tempers. First he had been upset by breaking the plate. It was his own
fault; but it was a china plate, the last of the dinner service that had
belonged to his grandmother, old Vixen Tod. Then the midges had been
very bad. And he had failed to catch a hen pheasant on her nest; and it
had contained only five eggs, two of them addled. Mr. Tod had had an
unsatisfactory night.

[Illustration]

As usual, when out of humour, he determined to move house. First he
tried the pollard willow, but it was damp; and the otters had left a
dead fish near it. Mr. Tod likes nobody's leavings but his own.

He made his way up the hill; his temper was not improved by noticing
unmistakable marks of badger. No one else grubs up the moss so wantonly
as Tommy Brock.

[Illustration]

Mr. Tod slapped his stick upon the earth and fumed; he guessed where
Tommy Brock had gone to. He was further annoyed by the jay bird which
followed him persistently. It flew from tree to tree and scolded,
warning every rabbit within hearing that either a cat or a fox was
coming up the plantation. Once when it flew screaming over his head--Mr.
Tod snapped at it, and barked.

He approached his house very carefully, with a large rusty key. He
sniffed and his whiskers bristled. The house was locked up, but Mr. Tod
had his doubts whether it was empty. He turned the rusty key in the
lock; the rabbits below could hear it. Mr. Tod opened the door
cautiously and went in.

[Illustration]

The sight that met Mr. Tod's eyes in Mr. Tod's kitchen made Mr. Tod
furious. There was Mr. Tod's chair, and Mr. Tod's pie dish, and his
knife and fork and mustard and salt cellar and his table-cloth that he
had left folded up in the dresser--all set out for supper (or
breakfast)--without doubt for that odious Tommy Brock.

There was a smell of fresh earth and dirty badger, which fortunately
overpowered all smell of rabbit.

But what absorbed Mr. Tod's attention was a noise--a deep slow regular
snoring grunting noise, coming from his own bed.

He peeped through the hinges of the half-open bedroom door. Then he
turned and came out of the house in a hurry. His whiskers bristled and
his coat-collar stood on end with rage.

[Illustration]

For the next twenty minutes Mr. Tod kept creeping cautiously into the
house, and retreating hurriedly out again. By degrees he ventured
further in--right into the bedroom. When he was outside the house, he
scratched up the earth with fury. But when he was inside--he did not
like the look of Tommy Brock's teeth.

He was lying on his back with his mouth open, grinning from ear to ear.
He snored peacefully and regularly; but one eye was not perfectly shut.

Mr. Tod came in and out of the bedroom. Twice he brought in his
walking-stick, and once he brought in the coal-scuttle. But he thought
better of it, and took them away.

[Illustration]

When he came back after removing the coal-scuttle, Tommy Brock was lying
a little more sideways; but he seemed even sounder asleep. He was an
incurably indolent person; he was not in the least afraid of Mr. Tod; he
was simply too lazy and comfortable to move.

Mr. Tod came back yet again into the bedroom with a clothes line. He
stood a minute watching Tommy Brock and listening attentively to the
snores. They were very loud indeed, but seemed quite natural.

Mr. Tod turned his back towards the bed, and undid the window. It
creaked; he turned round with a jump. Tommy Brock, who had opened one
eye--shut it hastily. The snores continued.

[Illustration]

Mr. Tod's proceedings were peculiar, and rather uneasy, (because the bed
was between the window and the door of the bedroom). He opened the
window a little way, and pushed out the greater part of the clothes line
on to the window sill. The rest of the line, with a hook at the end,
remained in his hand.

Tommy Brock snored conscientiously. Mr. Tod stood and looked at him for
a minute; then he left the room again.

Tommy Brock opened both eyes, and looked at the rope and grinned. There
was a noise outside the window. Tommy Brock shut his eyes in a hurry.

Mr. Tod had gone out at the front door, and round to the back of the
house. On the way, he stumbled over the rabbit burrow. If he had had any
idea who was inside it, he would have pulled them out quickly.

[Illustration]

His foot went through the tunnel nearly upon the top of Peter Rabbit and
Benjamin, but fortunately he thought that it was some more of Tommy
Brock's work.

He took up the coil of line from the sill, listened for a moment, and
then tied the rope to a tree.

Tommy Brock watched him with one eye, through the window. He was
puzzled.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Mr. Tod fetched a large heavy pailful of water from the spring, and
staggered with it through the kitchen into his bedroom.

Tommy Brock snored industriously, with rather a snort.

Mr. Tod put down the pail beside the bed, took up the end of rope with
the hook--hesitated, and looked at Tommy Brock. The snores were almost
apoplectic; but the grin was not quite so big.

Mr. Tod gingerly mounted a chair by the head of the bedstead. His legs
were dangerously near to Tommy Brock's teeth.

He reached up and put the end of rope, with the hook, over the head of
the tester bed, where the curtains ought to hang.

(Mr. Tod's curtains were folded up, and put away, owing to the house
being unoccupied. So was the counterpane. Tommy Brock was covered with a
blanket only.) Mr. Tod standing on the unsteady chair looked down upon
him attentively; he really was a first prize sound sleeper!

It seemed as though nothing would waken him--not even the flapping rope
across the bed.

Mr. Tod descended safely from the chair, and endeavoured to get up again
with the pail of water. He intended to hang it from the hook, dangling
over the head of Tommy Brock, in order to make a sort of shower-bath,
worked by a string, through the window.

[Illustration]

But naturally being a thin-legged person (though vindictive and sandy
whiskered)--he was quite unable to lift the heavy weight to the level of
the hook and rope. He very nearly overbalanced himself.

The snores became more and more apoplectic. One of Tommy Brock's hind
legs twitched under the blanket, but still he slept on peacefully.

Mr. Tod and the pail descended from the chair without accident. After
considerable thought, he emptied the water into a wash-basin and jug.
The empty pail was not too heavy for him; he slung it up wobbling over
the head of Tommy Brock.

Surely there never was such a sleeper! Mr. Tod got up and down, down and
up on the chair.

As he could not lift the whole pailful of water at once, he fetched a
milk jug, and ladled quarts of water into the pail by degrees. The pail
got fuller and fuller, and swung like a pendulum. Occasionally a drop
splashed over; but still Tommy Brock snored regularly and never
moved,--except one eye.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

At last Mr. Tod's preparations were complete. The pail was full of
water; the rope was tightly strained over the top of the bed, and across
the window sill to the tree outside.

"It will make a great mess in my bedroom; but I could never sleep in
that bed again without a spring cleaning of some sort," said Mr. Tod.

[Illustration]

Mr. Tod took a last look at the badger and softly left the room. He went
out of the house, shutting the front door. The rabbits heard his
footsteps over the tunnel.

He ran round behind the house, intending to undo the rope in order to
let fall the pailful of water upon Tommy Brock--

"I will wake him up with an unpleasant surprise," said Mr. Tod.

The moment he had gone, Tommy Brock got up in a hurry; he rolled Mr.
Tod's dressing-gown into a bundle, put it into the bed beneath the pail
of water instead of himself, and left the room also--grinning immensely.

He went into the kitchen, lighted the fire and boiled the kettle; for
the moment he did not trouble himself to cook the baby rabbits.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

When Mr. Tod got to the tree, he found that the weight and strain had
dragged the knot so tight that it was past untying. He was obliged to
gnaw it with his teeth. He chewed and gnawed for more than twenty
minutes. At last the rope gave way with such a sudden jerk that it
nearly pulled his teeth out, and quite knocked him over backwards.

[Illustration]

Inside the house there was a great crash and splash, and the noise of a
pail rolling over and over.

But no screams. Mr. Tod was mystified; he sat quite still, and listened
attentively. Then he peeped in at the window. The water was dripping
from the bed, the pail had rolled into a corner.

In the middle of the bed under the blanket, was a wet flattened
_something_--much dinged in, in the middle where the pail had caught it
(as it were across the tummy). Its head was covered by the wet blanket
and it was _not snoring any longer_.

There was nothing stirring, and no sound except the drip, drop, drop
drip of water trickling from the mattress.

[Illustration]

Mr. Tod watched it for half an hour; his eyes glistened.

Then he cut a caper, and became so bold that he even tapped at the
window; but the bundle never moved.

Yes--there was no doubt about it--it had turned out even better than he
had planned; the pail had hit poor old Tommy Brock, and killed him
dead!

"I will bury that nasty person in the hole which he has dug. I will
bring my bedding out, and dry it in the sun," said Mr. Tod.

"I will wash the tablecloth and spread it on the grass in the sun to
bleach. And the blanket must be hung up in the wind; and the bed must be
thoroughly disinfected, and aired with a warming-pan; and warmed with a
hot-water bottle."

[Illustration]

"I will get soft soap, and monkey soap, and all sorts of soap; and soda
and scrubbing brushes; and persian powder; and carbolic to remove the
smell. I must have a disinfecting. Perhaps I may have to burn sulphur."

He hurried round the house to get a shovel from the kitchen--"First I
will arrange the hole--then I will drag out that person in the
blanket...."

He opened the door....

Tommy Brock was sitting at Mr. Tod's kitchen table, pouring out tea from
Mr. Tod's tea-pot into Mr. Tod's tea-cup. He was quite dry himself and
grinning; and he threw the cup of scalding tea all over Mr. Tod.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Then Mr. Tod rushed upon Tommy Brock, and Tommy Brock grappled with Mr.
Tod amongst the broken crockery, and there was a terrific battle all
over the kitchen. To the rabbits underneath it sounded as if the floor
would give way at each crash of falling furniture.

They crept out of their tunnel, and hung about amongst the rocks and
bushes, listening anxiously.

[Illustration]

Inside the house the racket was fearful. The rabbit babies in the oven
woke up trembling; perhaps it was fortunate they were shut up inside.

Everything was upset except the kitchen table.

And everything was broken, except the mantelpiece and the kitchen
fender. The crockery was smashed to atoms.

The chairs were broken, and the window, and the clock fell with a crash,
and there were handfuls of Mr. Tod's sandy whiskers.

The vases fell off the mantelpiece, the canisters fell off the shelf;
the kettle fell off the hob. Tommy Brock put his foot in a jar of
raspberry jam.

And the boiling water out of the kettle fell upon the tail of Mr. Tod.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

When the kettle fell, Tommy Brock, who was still grinning, happened to
be uppermost; and he rolled Mr. Tod over and over like a log, out at the
door.

Then the snarling and worrying went on outside; and they rolled over the
bank, and down hill, bumping over the rocks. There will never be any
love lost between Tommy Brock and Mr. Tod.

[Illustration]

As soon as the coast was clear, Peter Rabbit and Benjamin Bunny came out
of the bushes--

"Now for it! Run in, Cousin Benjamin! Run in and get them! while I watch
at the door."

But Benjamin was frightened--

"Oh; oh! they are coming back!"

"No they are not."

"Yes they are!"

"What dreadful bad language! I think they have fallen down the stone
quarry."

Still Benjamin hesitated, and Peter kept pushing him--

"Be quick, it's all right. Shut the oven door, Cousin Benjamin, so that
he won't miss them."

Decidedly there were lively doings in Mr. Tod's kitchen!

[Illustration]

At home in the rabbit hole, things had not been quite comfortable.

After quarrelling at supper, Flopsy and old Mr. Bouncer had passed a
sleepless night, and quarrelled again at breakfast. Old Mr. Bouncer
could no longer deny that he had invited company into the rabbit hole;
but he refused to reply to the questions and reproaches of Flopsy. The
day passed heavily.

Old Mr. Bouncer, very sulky, was huddled up in a corner, barricaded with
a chair. Flopsy had taken away his pipe and hidden the tobacco. She had
been having a complete turn out and spring-cleaning, to relieve her
feelings. She had just finished. Old Mr. Bouncer, behind his chair, was
wondering anxiously what she would do next.

[Illustration]

In Mr. Tod's kitchen, amongst the wreckage, Benjamin Bunny picked his
way to the oven nervously, through a thick cloud of dust. He opened the
oven door, felt inside, and found something warm and wriggling. He
lifted it out carefully, and rejoined Peter Rabbit.

"I've got them! Can we get away? Shall we hide, Cousin Peter?"

Peter pricked his ears; distant sounds of fighting still echoed in the
wood.

Five minutes afterwards two breathless rabbits came scuttering away down
Bull Banks, half carrying half dragging a sack between them, bumpetty
bump over the grass. They reached home safely and burst into the rabbit
hole.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Great was old Mr. Bouncer's relief and Flopsy's joy when Peter and
Benjamin arrived in triumph with the young family. The rabbit-babies
were rather tumbled and very hungry; they were fed and put to bed. They
soon recovered.

A long new pipe and a fresh supply of rabbit tobacco was presented to
Mr. Bouncer. He was rather upon his dignity; but he accepted.

[Illustration]

Old Mr. Bouncer was forgiven, and they all had dinner. Then Peter and
Benjamin told their story--but they had not waited long enough to be
able to tell the end of the battle between Tommy Brock and Mr. Tod.

THE END


[Illustration]

[Illustration]

    THE TALE OF

    THE FLOPSY BUNNIES

    BY

    BEATRIX POTTER

    _Author of
    "The Tale of Peter Rabbit," &c._

[Illustration]

    FREDERICK WARNE & CO., INC.
    NEW YORK

    1909

    FOR ALL LITTLE FRIENDS

    OF

    MR. MCGREGOR & PETER & BENJAMIN

[Illustration]

It is said that the effect of eating too much lettuce is "soporific."

_I_ have never felt sleepy after eating lettuces; but then _I_ am not a
rabbit.

They certainly had a very soporific effect upon the Flopsy Bunnies!

When Benjamin Bunny grew up, he married his Cousin Flopsy. They had a
large family, and they were very improvident and cheerful.

I do not remember the separate names of their children; they were
generally called the "Flopsy Bunnies."

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

As there was not always quite enough to eat,--Benjamin used to borrow
cabbages from Flopsy's brother, Peter Rabbit, who kept a nursery garden.

Sometimes Peter Rabbit had no cabbages to spare.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

When this happened, the Flopsy Bunnies went across the field to a rubbish
heap, in the ditch outside Mr. McGregor's garden.

Mr. McGregor's rubbish heap was a mixture. There were jam pots and paper
bags, and mountains of chopped grass from the mowing machine (which always
tasted oily), and some rotten vegetable marrows and an old boot or two.
One day--oh joy!--there were a quantity of overgrown lettuces, which had
"shot" into flower.

[Illustration]

The Flopsy Bunnies simply stuffed lettuces. By degrees, one after another,
they were overcome with slumber, and lay down in the mown grass.

Benjamin was not so much overcome as his children. Before going to sleep
he was sufficiently wide awake to put a paper bag over his head to keep
off the flies.

The little Flopsy Bunnies slept delightfully in the warm sun. From the
lawn beyond the garden came the distant clacketty sound of the mowing
machine. The bluebottles buzzed about the wall, and a little old mouse
picked over the rubbish among the jam pots.

(I can tell you her name, she was called Thomasina Tittlemouse, a
woodmouse with a long tail.)

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

She rustled across the paper bag, and awakened Benjamin Bunny.

The mouse apologized profusely, and said that she knew Peter Rabbit.

While she and Benjamin were talking, close under the wall, they heard a
heavy tread above their heads; and suddenly Mr. McGregor emptied out a
sackful of lawn mowings right upon the top of the sleeping Flopsy Bunnies!
Benjamin shrank down under his paper bag. The mouse hid in a jam pot.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

The little rabbits smiled sweetly in their sleep under the shower of
grass; they did not awake because the lettuces had been so soporific.

They dreamt that their mother Flopsy was tucking them up in a hay bed.

Mr. McGregor looked down after emptying his sack. He saw some funny little
brown tips of ears sticking up through the lawn mowings. He stared at them
for some time.

Presently a fly settled on one of them and it moved.

Mr. McGregor climbed down on to the rubbish heap--

"One, two, three, four! five! six leetle rabbits!" said he as he dropped
them into his sack. The Flopsy Bunnies dreamt that their mother was
turning them over in bed. They stirred a little in their sleep, but still
they did not wake up.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Mr. McGregor tied up the sack and left it on the wall.

He went to put away the mowing machine.

While he was gone, Mrs. Flopsy Bunny (who had remained at home) came
across the field.

She looked suspiciously at the sack and wondered where everybody was?

[Illustration]

Then the mouse came out of her jam pot, and Benjamin took the paper bag
off his head, and they told the doleful tale.

Benjamin and Flopsy were in despair, they could not undo the string.

But Mrs. Tittlemouse was a resourceful person. She nibbled a hole in the
bottom corner of the sack.

[Illustration]

The little rabbits were pulled out and pinched to wake them.

Their parents stuffed the empty sack with three rotten vegetable marrows,
an old blacking-brush and two decayed turnips.

[Illustration]

Then they all hid under a bush and watched for Mr. McGregor.

[Illustration]

Mr. McGregor came back and picked up the sack, and carried it off.

He carried it hanging down, as if it were rather heavy.

The Flopsy Bunnies followed at a safe distance.

[Illustration]

They watched him go into his house.

And then they crept up to the window to listen.

[Illustration]

Mr. McGregor threw down the sack on the stone floor in a way that would
have been extremely painful to the Flopsy Bunnies, if they had happened to
have been inside it.

They could hear him drag his chair on the flags, and chuckle--

"One, two, three, four, five, six leetle rabbits!" said Mr. McGregor.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

"Eh? What's that? What have they been spoiling now?" enquired Mrs.
McGregor.

"One, two, three, four, five, six leetle fat rabbits!" repeated Mr.
McGregor, counting on his fingers--"one, two, three--"

"Don't you be silly; what do you mean, you silly old man?"

"In the sack! one, two, three, four, five, six!" replied Mr. McGregor.

(The youngest Flopsy Bunny got upon the window-sill.)

Mrs. McGregor took hold of the sack and felt it. She said she could feel
six, but they must be _old_ rabbits, because they were so hard and all
different shapes.

"Not fit to eat; but the skins will do fine to line my old cloak."

"Line your old cloak?" shouted Mr. McGregor--"I shall sell them and buy
myself baccy!"

"Rabbit tobacco! I shall skin them and cut off their heads."

[Illustration]

Mrs. McGregor untied the sack and put her hand inside.

When she felt the vegetables she became very very angry. She said that Mr.
McGregor had "done it a purpose."

[Illustration]

And Mr. McGregor was very angry too. One of the rotten marrows came flying
through the kitchen window, and hit the youngest Flopsy Bunny.

It was rather hurt.

[Illustration]

Then Benjamin and Flopsy thought that it was time to go home.

[Illustration]

So Mr. McGregor did not get his tobacco, and Mrs. McGregor did not get her
rabbit skins.

[Illustration]

But next Christmas Thomasina Tittlemouse got a present of enough
rabbit-wool to make herself a cloak and a hood, and a handsome muff and a
pair of warm mittens.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

THE TALE OF THE FLOPSY BUNNIES

BY BEATRIX POTTER

F. WARNE & Co


E-text prepared by Robert Cicconetti, Ronald Holder, and the Project
Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading Team (https://www.pgdp.net)

THE TALE OF SAMUEL WHISKERS

Or, The Roly-Poly Pudding

by

BEATRIX POTTER

Author of "The Tale of Peter Rabbit" etc.

[Illustration]

IN REMEMBRANCE OF
"SAMMY,"
THE INTELLIGENT PINK-EYED REPRESENTATIVE
OF
A PERSECUTED (BUT IRREPRESSIBLE) RACE
AN AFFECTIONATE LITTLE FRIEND,
AND MOST ACCOMPLISHED
THIEF

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

FREDERICK WARNE

First published 1908
(Originally published in U.S.A. as _The Roly-Poly Pudding_)

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Once upon a time there was an old cat, called Mrs. Tabitha Twitchit, who
was an anxious parent. She used to lose her kittens continually, and
whenever they were lost they were always in mischief!

On baking day she determined to shut them up in a cupboard.

She caught Moppet and Mittens, but she could not find Tom.

Mrs. Tabitha went up and down all over the house, mewing for Tom
Kitten. She looked in the pantry under the staircase, and she searched
the best spare bedroom that was all covered up with dust sheets. She
went right upstairs and looked into the attics, but she could not find
him anywhere.

It was an old, old house, full of cupboards and passages. Some of the
walls were four feet thick, and there used to be queer noises inside
them, as if there might be a little secret staircase. Certainly there
were odd little jagged doorways in the wainscot, and things disappeared
at night--especially cheese and bacon.

Mrs. Tabitha became more and more distracted, and mewed dreadfully.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

While their mother was searching the house, Moppet and Mittens had got
into mischief.

The cupboard door was not locked, so they pushed it open and came out.

[Illustration]

They went straight to the dough which was set to rise in a pan before
the fire.

They patted it with their little soft paws--"Shall we make dear little
muffins?" said Mittens to Moppet.

[Illustration]

But just at that moment somebody knocked at the front door, and Moppet
jumped into the flour barrel in a fright.

[Illustration]

Mittens ran away to the dairy, and hid in an empty jar on the stone
shelf where the milk pans stand.

The visitor was a neighbour, Mrs. Ribby; she had called to borrow some
yeast.

Mrs. Tabitha came downstairs mewing dreadfully--"Come in, Cousin Ribby,
come in, and sit ye down! I'm in sad trouble, Cousin Ribby," said
Tabitha, shedding tears. "I've lost my dear son Thomas; I'm afraid the
rats have got him." She wiped her eyes with her apron.

"He's a bad kitten, Cousin Tabitha; he made a cat's cradle of my best
bonnet last time I came to tea. Where have you looked for him?"

"All over the house! The rats are too many for me. What a thing it is to
have an unruly family!" said Mrs. Tabitha Twitchit.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

"I'm not afraid of rats; I will help you to find him; and whip him too!
What is all that soot in the fender?"

[Illustration]

"The chimney wants sweeping--Oh, dear me, Cousin Ribby--now Moppet and
Mittens are gone!"

"They have both got out of the cupboard!"

[Illustration]

Ribby and Tabitha set to work to search the house thoroughly again.
They poked under the beds with Ribby's umbrella, and they rummaged in
cupboards. They even fetched a candle, and looked inside a clothes chest
in one of the attics. They could not find anything, but once they heard
a door bang and somebody scuttered downstairs.

"Yes, it is infested with rats," said Tabitha tearfully. "I caught seven
young ones out of one hole in the back kitchen, and we had them for
dinner last Saturday. And once I saw the old father rat--an enormous old
rat, Cousin Ribby. I was just going to jump upon him, when he showed his
yellow teeth at me and whisked down the hole."

"The rats get upon my nerves, Cousin Ribby," said Tabitha.

[Illustration]

Ribby and Tabitha searched and searched. They both heard a curious
roly-poly noise under the attic floor. But there was nothing to be seen.

[Illustration]

They returned to the kitchen. "Here's one of your kittens at least,"
said Ribby, dragging Moppet out of the flour barrel.

They shook the flour off her and set her down on the kitchen floor. She
seemed to be in a terrible fright.

"Oh! Mother, Mother," said Moppet, "there's been an old woman rat in the
kitchen, and she's stolen some of the dough!"

The two cats ran to look at the dough pan. Sure enough there were marks
of little scratching fingers, and a lump of dough was gone!

"Which way did she go, Moppet?"

But Moppet had been too much frightened to peep out of the barrel again.

Ribby and Tabitha took her with them to keep her safely in sight, while
they went on with their search.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

They went into the dairy. The first thing they found was Mittens, hiding
in an empty jar.

[Illustration]

They tipped up the jar, and she scrambled out.

"Oh, Mother, Mother!" said Mittens--

[Illustration]

"Oh! Mother, Mother, there has been an old man rat in the dairy--a
dreadful 'normous big rat, mother; and he's stolen a pat of butter and
the rolling-pin."

Ribby and Tabitha looked at one another.

"A rolling-pin and butter! Oh, my poor son Thomas!" exclaimed Tabitha,
wringing her paws.

"A rolling-pin?" said Ribby. "Did we not hear a roly-poly noise in the
attic when we were looking into that chest?"

Ribby and Tabitha rushed upstairs again. Sure enough the roly-poly noise
was still going on quite distinctly under the attic floor.

[Illustration]

"This is serious, Cousin Tabitha," said Ribby. "We must send for John
Joiner at once, with a saw."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Now this is what had been happening to Tom Kitten, and it shows how very
unwise it is to go up a chimney in a very old house, where a person does
not know his way, and where there are enormous rats.

Tom Kitten did not want to be shut up in a cupboard. When he saw that
his mother was going to bake, he determined to hide.

He looked about for a nice convenient place, and he fixed upon the
chimney.

The fire had only just been lighted, and it was not hot; but there was a
white choky smoke from the green sticks. Tom Kitten got upon the fender
and looked up. It was a big old-fashioned fire-place.

The chimney itself was wide enough inside for a man to stand up and walk
about. So there was plenty of room for a little Tom Cat.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

He jumped right up into the fire-place, balancing himself upon the iron
bar where the kettle hangs.

[Illustration]

Tom Kitten took another big jump off the bar, and landed on a ledge high
up inside the chimney, knocking down some soot into the fender.

[Illustration]

Tom Kitten coughed and choked with the smoke; and he could hear the
sticks beginning to crackle and burn in the fire-place down below. He
made up his mind to climb right to the top, and get out on the slates,
and try to catch sparrows.

"I cannot go back. If I slipped I might fall in the fire and singe my
beautiful tail and my little blue jacket."

The chimney was a very big old-fashioned one. It was built in the days
when people burnt logs of wood upon the hearth.

The chimney stack stood up above the roof like a little stone tower, and
the daylight shone down from the top, under the slanting slates that
kept out the rain.

[Illustration]

Tom Kitten was getting very frightened! He climbed up, and up, and up.

[Illustration]

Then he waded sideways through inches of soot. He was like a little
sweep himself.

It was most confusing in the dark. One flue seemed to lead into
another.

There was less smoke, but Tom Kitten felt quite lost.

He scrambled up and up; but before he reached the chimney top he came to
a place where somebody had loosened a stone in the wall. There were some
mutton bones lying about--

"This seems funny," said Tom Kitten. "Who has been gnawing bones up here
in the chimney? I wish I had never come! And what a funny smell? It is
something like mouse; only dreadfully strong. It makes me sneeze," said
Tom Kitten.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

He squeezed through the hole in the wall, and dragged himself along a
most uncomfortably tight passage where there was scarcely any light.

[Illustration]

He groped his way carefully for several yards; he was at the back of the
skirting-board in the attic, where there is a little mark * in the
picture.

[Illustration]

All at once he fell head over heels in the dark, down a hole, and
landed on a heap of very dirty rags.

When Tom Kitten picked himself up and looked about him--he found himself
in a place that he had never seen before, although he had lived all his
life in the house.

It was a very small stuffy fusty room, with boards, and rafters, and
cobwebs, and lath and plaster.

Opposite to him--as far away as he could sit--was an enormous rat.

"What do you mean by tumbling into my bed all covered with smuts?" said
the rat, chattering his teeth.

[Illustration]

"Please sir, the chimney wants sweeping," said poor Tom Kitten.

[Illustration]

"Anna Maria! Anna Maria!" squeaked the rat. There was a pattering noise
and an old woman rat poked her head round a rafter.

All in a minute she rushed upon Tom Kitten, and before he knew what was
happening--

His coat was pulled off, and he was rolled up in a bundle, and tied with
string in very hard knots.

Anna Maria did the tying. The old rat watched her and took snuff. When
she had finished, they both sat staring at him with their mouths open.

"Anna Maria," said the old man rat (whose name was Samuel
Whiskers),--"Anna Maria, make me a kitten dumpling roly-poly pudding for
my dinner."

"It requires dough and a pat of butter, and a rolling-pin," said Anna
Maria, considering Tom Kitten with her head on one side.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

"No," said Samuel Whiskers, "make it properly, Anna Maria, with
breadcrumbs."

[Illustration]

"Nonsense! Butter and dough," replied Anna Maria.

[Illustration]

The two rats consulted together for a few minutes and then went away.

Samuel Whiskers got through a hole in the wainscot, and went boldly down
the front staircase to the dairy to get the butter. He did not meet
anybody.

He made a second journey for the rolling-pin. He pushed it in front of
him with his paws, like a brewer's man trundling a barrel.

He could hear Ribby and Tabitha talking, but they were busy lighting the
candle to look into the chest.

They did not see him.

[Illustration]

Anna Maria went down by way of the skirting-board and a window shutter
to the kitchen to steal the dough.

[Illustration]

She borrowed a small saucer, and scooped up the dough with her paws.

She did not observe Moppet.

While Tom Kitten was left alone under the floor of the attic, he
wriggled about and tried to mew for help.

But his mouth was full of soot and cobwebs, and he was tied up in such
very tight knots, he could not make anybody hear him.

Except a spider, which came out of a crack in the ceiling and examined
the knots critically, from a safe distance.

It was a judge of knots because it had a habit of tying up unfortunate
blue-bottles. It did not offer to assist him.

Tom Kitten wriggled and squirmed until he was quite exhausted.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Presently the rats came back and set to work to make him into a
dumpling. First they smeared him with butter, and then they rolled him
in the dough.

"Will not the string be very indigestible, Anna Maria?" inquired Samuel
Whiskers.

[Illustration]

Anna Maria said she thought that it was of no consequence; but she
wished that Tom Kitten would hold his head still, as it disarranged the
pastry. She laid hold of his ears.

[Illustration]

Tom Kitten bit and spat, and mewed and wriggled; and the rolling-pin
went roly-poly, roly; roly, poly, roly. The rats each held an end.

"His tail is sticking out! You did not fetch enough dough, Anna Maria."

"I fetched as much as I could carry," replied Anna Maria.

"I do not think"--said Samuel Whiskers, pausing to take a look at Tom
Kitten--"I do _not_ think it will be a good pudding. It smells sooty."

Anna Maria was about to argue the point, when all at once there began to
be other sounds up above--the rasping noise of a saw; and the noise of a
little dog, scratching and yelping!

[Illustration]

The rats dropped the rolling-pin, and listened attentively.

"We are discovered and interrupted, Anna Maria; let us collect our
property--and other people's,--and depart at once."

"I fear that we shall be obliged to leave this pudding."

[Illustration]

"But I am persuaded that the knots would have proved indigestible,
whatever you may urge to the contrary."

"Come away at once and help me to tie up some mutton bones in a
counterpane," said Anna Maria. "I have got half a smoked ham hidden in
the chimney."

[Illustration]

So it happened that by the time John Joiner had got the plank up--there
was nobody under the floor except the rolling-pin and Tom Kitten in a
very dirty dumpling!

[Illustration]

But there was a strong smell of rats; and John Joiner spent the rest of
the morning sniffing and whining, and wagging his tail, and going round
and round with his head in the hole like a gimlet.

[Illustration]

Then he nailed the plank down again and put his tools in his bag, and
came downstairs.

The cat family had quite recovered. They invited him to stay to dinner.

The dumpling had been peeled off Tom Kitten, and made separately into a
bag pudding, with currants in it to hide the smuts.

They had been obliged to put Tom Kitten into a hot bath to get the
butter off.

John Joiner smelt the pudding; but he regretted that he had not time to
stay to dinner, because he had just finished making a wheel-barrow for
Miss Potter, and she had ordered two hen-coops.

And when I was going to the post late in the afternoon--I looked up the
lane from the corner, and I saw Mr. Samuel Whiskers and his wife on the
run, with big bundles on a little wheel-barrow, which looked very like
mine.

They were just turning in at the gate to the barn of Farmer Potatoes.

Samuel Whiskers was puffing and out of breath. Anna Maria was still
arguing in shrill tones.

She seemed to know her way, and she seemed to have a quantity of
luggage.

I am sure _I_ never gave her leave to borrow my wheel-barrow!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

They went into the barn, and hauled their parcels with a bit of string
to the top of the hay mow.

[Illustration]

After that, there were no more rats for a long time at Tabitha
Twitchit's.

[Illustration]

As for Farmer Potatoes, he has been driven nearly distracted. There are
rats, and rats, and rats in his barn! They eat up the chicken food, and
steal the oats and bran, and make holes in the meal bags.

And they are all descended from Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Whiskers--children
and grand-children and great great grand-children.

There is no end to them!

Moppet and Mittens have grown up into very good rat-catchers.

They go out rat-catching in the village, and they find plenty of
employment. They charge so much a dozen, and earn their living very
comfortably.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

They hang up the rats' tails in a row on the barn door, to show how many
they have caught--dozens and dozens of them.

[Illustration]

But Tom Kitten has always been afraid of a rat; he never durst face
anything that is bigger than--

[Illustration]

A Mouse.


[Illustration: Mrs. Tittlemouse & Bees]

THE TALE OF MRS. TITTLEMOUSE

By BEATRIX POTTER

Author of "The Tale of Peter Rabbit" etc.

[Illustration: Mrs. Tittlemouse & Butterfly]

FREDERICK WARNE

FREDERICK WARNE

Penguin Books Ltd, Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
Viking Penguin Inc., 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York 10010, U.S.A.
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2801 John Street, Markham, Ontario, Canada L3R 1B4
Penguin Books (N.Z.) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

First published 1910
This impression 1985
Universal Copyright Notice:
Copyright © 1910 by Frederick Warne & Co.
Copyright in all countries signatory to the Berne Convention

          All rights reserved. Without limiting the rights
          under copyright reserved above, no part of this
          publication may be reproduced, stored in or
          introduced into a retrieval system, or
          transmitted, in any form or by any means
          (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording
          or otherwise), without the prior written
          permission of both the copyright owner and the
          above publisher of this book.

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
William Clowes Limited, Beccles and London

NELLIE'S
LITTLE BOOK

[Illustration: Mrs. Tittlemouse at the Door]

Once upon a time there was a wood-mouse, and her name was Mrs.
Tittlemouse.

She lived in a bank under a hedge.

Such a funny house! There were yards and yards of sandy passages,
leading to storerooms and nut-cellars and seed-cellars, all amongst the
roots of the hedge.

[Illustration: In the pantry]

[Illustration: In bed]

There was a kitchen, a parlour, a pantry, and a larder.

Also, there was Mrs. Tittlemouse's bedroom, where she slept in a little
box bed!

Mrs. Tittlemouse was a most terribly tidy particular little mouse,
always sweeping and dusting the soft sandy floors.

Sometimes a beetle lost its way in the passages.

"Shuh! shuh! little dirty feet!" said Mrs. Tittlemouse, clattering her
dust-pan.

[Illustration: Shooing a beetle]

[Illustration: A ladybird]

And one day a little old woman ran up and down in a red spotty cloak.

"Your house is on fire, Mother Ladybird! Fly away home to your
children!"

Another day, a big fat spider came in to shelter from the rain.

"Beg pardon, is this not Miss Muffet's?"

"Go away, you bold bad spider! Leaving ends of cobweb all over my nice
clean house!"

[Illustration: Spider]

[Illustration: Out the window]

She bundled the spider out at a window.

He let himself down the hedge with a long thin bit of string.

Mrs. Tittlemouse went on her way to a distant storeroom, to fetch
cherry-stones and thistle-down seed for dinner.

All along the passage she sniffed, and looked at the floor.

"I smell a smell of honey; is it the cowslips outside, in the hedge? I
am sure I can see the marks of little dirty feet."

[Illustration: Marks of little feet]

[Illustration: Babbitty Bumble]

Suddenly round a corner, she met Babbitty Bumble--"Zizz, Bizz, Bizzz!"
said the bumble bee.

Mrs. Tittlemouse looked at her severely. She wished that she had a
broom.

"Good-day, Babbitty Bumble; I should be glad to buy some beeswax. But
what are you doing down here? Why do you always come in at a window, and
say Zizz, Bizz, Bizzz?" Mrs. Tittlemouse began to get cross.

"Zizz, Wizz, Wizzz!" replied Babbitty Bumble in a peevish squeak. She
sidled down a passage, and disappeared into a storeroom which had been
used for acorns.

Mrs. Tittlemouse had eaten the acorns before Christmas; the storeroom
ought to have been empty.

But it was full of untidy dry moss.

[Illustration: Full of moss]

[Illustration: Bees nest]

Mrs. Tittlemouse began to pull out the moss. Three or four other bees
put their heads out, and buzzed fiercely.

"I am not in the habit of letting lodgings; this is an intrusion!" said
Mrs. Tittlemouse. "I will have them turned out--" "Buzz! Buzz!
Buzzz!"--"I wonder who would help me?" "Bizz, Wizz, Wizzz!"

--"I will not have Mr. Jackson; he never wipes his feet."

Mrs. Tittlemouse decided to leave the bees till after dinner.

When she got back to the parlour, she heard some one coughing in a fat
voice; and there sat Mr. Jackson himself!

He was sitting all over a small rocking-chair, twiddling his thumbs and
smiling, with his feet on the fender.

He lived in a drain below the hedge, in a very dirty wet ditch.

[Illustration: Mr. Jackson]

[Illustration: Sitting and dripping]

"How do you do, Mr. Jackson? Deary me, you have got very wet!"

"Thank you, thank you, thank you, Mrs. Tittlemouse! I'll sit awhile and
dry myself," said Mr. Jackson.

He sat and smiled, and the water dripped off his coat tails. Mrs.
Tittlemouse went round with a mop.

He sat such a while that he had to be asked if he would take some
dinner?

First she offered him cherry-stones. "Thank you, thank you, Mrs.
Tittlemouse! No teeth, no teeth, no teeth!" said Mr. Jackson.

He opened his mouth most unnecessarily wide; he certainly had not a
tooth in his head.

[Illustration: Feeding Mr. Jackson]

[Illustration: Thistledown]

Then she offered him thistle-down seed--"Tiddly, widdly, widdly! Pouff,
pouff, puff!" said Mr. Jackson. He blew the thistle-down all over the
room.

"Thank you, thank you, thank you, Mrs. Tittlemouse! Now what I
really--_really_ should like--would be a little dish of honey!"

"I am afraid I have not got any, Mr. Jackson," said Mrs. Tittlemouse.

"Tiddly, widdly, widdly, Mrs. Tittlemouse!" said the smiling Mr.
Jackson, "I can _smell_ it; that is why I came to call."

Mr. Jackson rose ponderously from the table, and began to look into the
cupboards.

Mrs. Tittlemouse followed him with a dish-cloth, to wipe his large wet
footmarks off the parlour floor.

[Illustration: Wiping up footmarks]

[Illustration: Walking down the passage]

When he had convinced himself that there was no honey in the cupboards,
he began to walk down the passage.

"Indeed, indeed, you will stick fast, Mr. Jackson!"

"Tiddly, widdly, widdly, Mrs. Tittlemouse!"

First he squeezed into the pantry.

"Tiddly, widdly, widdly? no honey? no honey, Mrs. Tittlemouse?"

There were three creepy-crawly people hiding in the plate-rack. Two of
them got away; but the littlest one he caught.

[Illustration: Creepy-crawly people]

[Illustration: Butterfly tasting the sugar]

Then he squeezed into the larder. Miss Butterfly was tasting the sugar;
but she flew away out of the window.

"Tiddly, widdly, widdly, Mrs. Tittlemouse; you seem to have plenty of
visitors!"

"And without any invitation!" said Mrs. Thomasina Tittlemouse.

They went along the sandy passage--"Tiddly widdly--" "Buzz! Wizz! Wizz!"

He met Babbitty round a corner, and snapped her up, and put her down
again.

"I do not like bumble bees. They are all over bristles," said Mr.
Jackson, wiping his mouth with his coat-sleeve.

"Get out, you nasty old toad!" shrieked Babbitty Bumble.

"I shall go distracted!" scolded Mrs. Tittlemouse.

[Illustration: Confronting the Bee]

[Illustration: Shut into the nut-cellar]

She shut herself up in the nut-cellar while Mr. Jackson pulled out the
bees-nest. He seemed to have no objection to stings.

When Mrs. Tittlemouse ventured to come out--everybody had gone away.

But the untidiness was something dreadful--"Never did I see such a
mess--smears of honey; and moss, and thistledown--and marks of big and
little dirty feet--all over my nice clean house!"

She gathered up the moss and the remains of the beeswax.

Then she went out and fetched some twigs, to partly close up the front
door.

"I will make it too small for Mr. Jackson!"

[Illustration: Closing up the front door]

[Illustration: Too tired]

She fetched soft soap, and flannel, and a new scrubbing brush from the
storeroom. But she was too tired to do any more. First she fell asleep
in her chair, and then she went to bed.

"Will it ever be tidy again?" said poor Mrs. Tittlemouse.

Next morning she got up very early and began a spring cleaning which
lasted a fortnight.

She swept, and scrubbed, and dusted; and she rubbed up the furniture
with beeswax, and polished her little tin spoons.

[Illustration: Polishing]

When it was all beautifully neat and clean, she gave a party to five
other little mice, without Mr. Jackson.

He smelt the party and came up the bank, but he could not squeeze in at
the door.

[Illustration: The party]

[Illustration: Honey-dew through the window]

So they handed him out acorn-cupfuls of honey-dew through the window,
and he was not at all offended.

He sat outside in the sun, and said--"Tiddly, widdly, widdly! Your very
good health, Mrs. Tittlemouse!"

THE END

       *       *       *       *       *


[Illustration: BUTTER AND MILK FROM THE FARM]

THE TALE OF

THE PIE AND
THE PATTY-PAN

BY
BEATRIX POTTER

_Author of_
_"The Tale of Peter Rabbit," &c._

_Pussy-cat sits by the fire--how should she be fair?_
_In walks the little dog--says "Pussy are you there?_
_How do you do Mistress Pussy? Mistress Pussy, how do you do?"_
_"I thank you kindly, little dog. I fare as well as you!"_

                                         _Old Rhyme._

FREDERICK WARNE

[Illustration]

FREDERICK WARNE

Penguin Books Ltd, Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
Viking Penguin Inc., 40 West 23rd Street, New York, New York 10010, U.S.A.
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 2801 John Street, Markham, Ontario,
  Canada L3R 1B4
Penguin Books (N.Z.) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road, Auckland 10, New Zealand

First published 1905
This impression 1985

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
William Clowes Limited, Beccles and London

[Illustration]

Once upon a time there was a Pussy-cat called Ribby, who invited a
little dog called Duchess, to tea.

"Come in good time, my dear Duchess," said Ribby's letter, "and we
will have something so very nice. I am baking it in a pie-dish--a
pie-dish with a pink rim. You never tasted anything so good! And _you_
shall eat it all! _I_ will eat muffins, my dear Duchess!" wrote
Ribby.

Duchess read the letter and wrote an answer:--"I will come with much
pleasure at a quarter past four. But it is very strange. _I_ was just
going to invite you to come here, to supper, my dear Ribby, to eat
something _most delicious_.

"I will come very punctually, my dear Ribby," wrote Duchess; and then
at the end she added--"I hope it isn't mouse?"

[Illustration: THE INVITATION]

And then she thought that did not look quite polite; so she scratched
out "isn't mouse" and changed it to "I hope it will be fine," and
she gave her letter to the postman.

But she thought a great deal about Ribby's pie, and she read Ribby's
letter over and over again.

"I am dreadfully afraid it _will_ be mouse!" said Duchess to
herself--"I really couldn't, _couldn't_ eat mouse pie. And I shall have
to eat it, because it is a party. And _my_ pie was going to be veal
and ham. A pink and white pie-dish! and so is mine; just like Ribby's
dishes; they were both bought at Tabitha Twitchit's."

Duchess went into her larder and took the pie off a shelf and looked
at it.

[Illustration]

"It is all ready to put into the oven. Such lovely pie-crust; and I
put in a little tin patty-pan to hold up the crust; and I made a hole
in the middle with a fork to let out the steam--Oh I do wish I could
eat my own pie, instead of a pie made of mouse!"

Duchess considered and considered and read Ribby's letter again--

"A pink and white pie-dish--and _you_ shall eat it _all_. 'You' means
me--then Ribby is not going to even taste the pie herself? A pink and
white pie-dish! Ribby is sure to go out to buy the muffins.... Oh what
a good idea! Why shouldn't I rush along and put my pie into Ribby's
oven when Ribby isn't there?"

[Illustration]

Duchess was quite delighted with her own cleverness!

Ribby in the meantime had received Duchess's answer, and as soon as
she was sure that the little dog could come--she popped _her_ pie into
the oven. There were two ovens, one above the other; some other knobs
and handles were only ornamental and not intended to open. Ribby put
the pie into the lower oven; the door was very stiff.

"The top oven bakes too quickly," said Ribby to herself. "It is a pie
of the most delicate and tender mouse minced up with bacon. And I have
taken out all the bones; because Duchess did nearly choke herself with
a fish-bone last time I gave a party. She eats a little fast--rather
big mouthfuls. But a most genteel and elegant little dog; infinitely
superior company to Cousin Tabitha Twitchit."

[Illustration: THE PIE MADE OF MOUSE]

Ribby put on some coal and swept up the hearth. Then she went out
with a can to the well, for water to fill up the kettle.

Then she began to set the room in order, for it was the sitting-room
as well as the kitchen. She shook the mats out at the front-door and
put them straight; the hearthrug was a rabbit-skin. She dusted the
clock and the ornaments on the mantelpiece, and she polished and
rubbed the tables and chairs.

Then she spread a very clean white table-cloth, and set out her best
china tea-set, which she took out of a wall-cupboard near the
fireplace. The tea-cups were white with a pattern of pink roses; and
the dinner-plates were white and blue.

[Illustration]

When Ribby had laid the table she took a jug and a blue and white
dish, and went out down the field to the farm, to fetch milk and
butter.

When she came back, she peeped into the bottom oven; the pie looked
very comfortable.

Ribby put on her shawl and bonnet and went out again with a basket, to
the village shop to buy a packet of tea, a pound of lump sugar, and a
pot of marmalade.

And just at the same time, Duchess came out of _her_ house, at the
other end of the village.

[Illustration: THE VEAL AND HAM PIE]

Ribby met Duchess half-way down the street, also carrying a basket,
covered with a cloth. They only bowed to one another; they
did not speak, because they were going to have a party.

As soon as Duchess had got round the corner out of sight--she simply
ran! Straight away to Ribby's house!

[Illustration]

Ribby went into the shop and bought what she required, and came out,
after a pleasant gossip with Cousin Tabitha Twitchit.

[Illustration]

Cousin Tabitha was disdainful afterwards in conversation--

"A little _dog_ indeed! Just as if there were no CATS in Sawrey!
And a _pie_ for afternoon tea! The very idea!" said Cousin Tabitha
Twitchit.

Ribby went on to Timothy Baker's and bought the muffins. Then she went
home.

There seemed to be a sort of scuffling noise in the back passage, as
she was coming in at the front door.

"I trust that is not that Pie: the spoons are locked up, however,"
said Ribby.

But there was nobody there. Ribby opened the bottom oven door with
some difficulty, and turned the pie. There began to be a pleasing
smell of baked mouse!

[Illustration: WHERE IS THE PIE MADE OF MOUSE?]

Duchess in the meantime, had slipped out at the back door.

"It is a very odd thing that Ribby's pie was _not_ in the oven when I
put mine in! And I can't find it anywhere; I have looked all over the
house. I put _my_ pie into a nice hot oven at the top. I could not
turn any of the other handles; I think that they are all shams," said
Duchess, "but I wish I could have removed the pie made of mouse! I
cannot think what she has done with it? I heard Ribby coming and I had
to run out by the back door!"

[Illustration]

Duchess went home and brushed her beautiful black coat; and then she
picked a bunch of flowers in her garden as a present for Ribby; and
passed the time until the clock struck four.

Ribby--having assured herself by careful search that there was really
no one hiding in the cupboard or in the larder--went upstairs to
change her dress.

She put on a lilac silk gown, for the party, and an embroidered muslin
apron and tippet.

"It is very strange," said Ribby, "I did not _think_ I left that
drawer pulled out; has somebody been trying on my mittens?"

She came downstairs again, and made the tea, and put the teapot on the
hob. She peeped again into the _bottom_ oven, the pie had become a
lovely brown, and it was steaming hot.

[Illustration: READY FOR THE PARTY]

She sat down before the fire to wait for the little dog. "I am glad I
used the _bottom_ oven," said Ribby, "the top one would certainly have
been very much too hot. I wonder why that cupboard door was open? Can
there really have been someone in the house?"

Very punctually at four o'clock, Duchess started to go to the party.
She ran so fast through the village that she was too early, and she
had to wait a little while in the lane that leads down to Ribby's
house.

"I wonder if Ribby has taken _my_ pie out of the oven yet?" said
Duchess, "and whatever can have become of the other pie made of
mouse?"

[Illustration]

At a quarter past four to the minute, there came a most genteel little
tap-tappity. "Is Mrs. Ribston at home?" inquired Duchess in the porch.

"Come in! and how do you do, my dear Duchess?" cried Ribby. "I hope I
see you well?"

"Quite well, I thank you, and how do _you_ do, my dear Ribby?" said
Duchess. "I've brought you some flowers; what a delicious smell of
pie!"

[Illustration: DUCHESS IN THE PORCH]

"Oh, what lovely flowers! Yes, it is mouse and bacon!"

"Do not talk about food, my dear Ribby," said Duchess; "what a lovely
white tea-cloth!... Is it done to a turn? Is it still in the oven?"

"I think it wants another five minutes," said Ribby. "Just a shade
longer; I will pour out the tea, while we wait. Do you take sugar, my
dear Duchess?"

"Oh yes, please! my dear Ribby; and may I have a lump upon my nose?"

"With pleasure, my dear Duchess; how beautifully you beg! Oh, how
sweetly pretty!"

[Illustration]

Duchess sat up with the sugar on her nose and sniffed--

"How good that pie smells! I do love veal and ham--I mean to say mouse
and bacon--"

[Illustration]

She dropped the sugar in confusion, and had to go hunting under the
tea-table, so did not see which oven Ribby opened in order to get out
the pie.

Ribby set the pie upon the table; there was a very savoury smell.

Duchess came out from under the table-cloth munching sugar, and sat
up on a chair.

"I will first cut the pie for you; I am going to have muffin and
marmalade," said Ribby.

"Do you really prefer muffin? Mind the patty-pan!"

[Illustration]

"I beg your pardon?" said Ribby.

"May I pass you the marmalade?" said Duchess hurriedly.

The pie proved extremely toothsome, and the muffins light and hot.
They disappeared rapidly, especially the pie!

"I think"--(thought the Duchess to herself)--"I _think_ it would be
wiser if I helped myself to pie; though Ribby did not seem to notice
anything when she was cutting it. What very small fine pieces it has
cooked into! I did not remember that I had minced it up so fine; I
suppose this is a quicker oven than my own."

[Illustration]

"How fast Duchess is eating!" thought Ribby to herself, as she
buttered her fifth muffin.

[Illustration]

The pie-dish was emptying rapidly! Duchess had had four helps already,
and was fumbling with the spoon. "A little more bacon, my dear
Duchess?" said Ribby.

"Thank you, my dear Ribby; I was only feeling for the patty-pan."

[Illustration: WHERE IS THE PATTY-PAN?]

"The patty-pan? my dear Duchess?"

"The patty-pan that held up the pie-crust," said Duchess, blushing
under her black coat.

"Oh, I didn't put one in, my dear Duchess," said Ribby; "I don't think
that it is necessary in pies made of mouse."

Duchess fumbled with the spoon--"I can't find it!" she said anxiously.

"There isn't a patty-pan," said Ribby, looking perplexed.

"Yes, indeed, my dear Ribby; where can it have gone to?" said
Duchess.

[Illustration]

"There most certainly is not one, my dear Duchess. I disapprove of tin
articles in puddings and pies. It is most undesirable--(especially
when people swallow in lumps!)" she added in a lower voice.

Duchess looked very much alarmed, and continued to scoop the inside
of the pie-dish.

"My Great-aunt Squintina (grandmother of Cousin Tabitha
Twitchit)--died of a thimble in a Christmas plum-pudding. _I_ never
put any article of metal in _my_ puddings or pies."

Duchess looked aghast, and tilted up the pie-dish.

"I have only four patty-pans, and they are all in the cupboard."

Duchess set up a howl.

"I shall die! I shall die! I have swallowed a patty-pan! Oh, my dear
Ribby, I do feel so ill!"

"It is impossible, my dear Duchess; there was not a patty-pan."

Duchess moaned and whined and rocked herself about.

"Oh I feel so dreadful, I have swallowed a patty-pan!"

"There was _nothing_ in the pie," said Ribby severely.

"Yes there _was_, my dear Ribby, I am sure I have swallowed it!"

"Let me prop you up with a pillow, my dear Duchess; where do you think
you feel it?"

"Oh I do feel so ill _all over_ me, my dear Ribby; I have swallowed a
large tin patty-pan with a sharp scalloped edge!"

[Illustration]

"Shall I run for the doctor? I will just lock up the spoons!"

"Oh yes, yes! fetch Dr. Maggotty, my dear Ribby: he is a Pie himself,
he will certainly understand."

Ribby settled Duchess in an armchair before the fire, and went out and
hurried to the village to look for the doctor.

She found him at the smithy.

He was occupied in putting rusty nails into a bottle of ink, which he
had obtained at the post office.

"Gammon? ha! HA!" said he, with his head on one side.

Ribby explained that her guest had swallowed a patty-pan.

"Spinach? ha! HA!" said he, and accompanied her with alacrity.

[Illustration: DR. MAGGOTTY'S MIXTURE]

He hopped so fast that Ribby had to run. It was most conspicuous. All
the village could see that Ribby was fetching the doctor.

"I _knew_ they would over-eat themselves!" said Cousin Tabitha
Twitchit.

[Illustration]

But while Ribby had been hunting for the doctor--a curious thing had
happened to Duchess, who had been left by herself, sitting before the
fire, sighing and groaning and feeling very unhappy.

"How _could_ I have swallowed it! such a large thing as a patty-pan!"

She got up and went to the table, and felt inside the pie-dish again
with a spoon.

"No; there is no patty-pan, and I put one in; and nobody has eaten pie
except me, so I must have swallowed it!"

[Illustration]

She sat down again, and stared mournfully at the grate. The fire
crackled and danced, and something sizz-z-zled!

Duchess started! She opened the door of the _top_ oven; out came a
rich steamy flavour of veal and ham, and there stood a fine brown
pie,--and through a hole in the top of the pie-crust there was a
glimpse of a little tin patty-pan!

Duchess drew a long breath--

"Then I must have been eating MOUSE!... No wonder I feel ill.... But
perhaps I should feel worse if I had really swallowed a patty-pan!"
Duchess reflected--"What a very awkward thing to have to explain to
Ribby! I think I will put _my_ pie in the back-yard and say nothing
about it. When I go home, I will run round and take it away." She put
it outside the back-door, and sat down again by the fire, and shut her
eyes; when Ribby arrived with the doctor, she seemed fast asleep.

[Illustration]

"Gammon, ha, HA?" said the doctor.

"I am feeling very much better," said Duchess, waking up with a jump.

"I am truly glad to hear it! He has brought you a pill, my dear
Duchess!"

"I think I should feel _quite_ well if he only felt my pulse," said
Duchess, backing away from the magpie, who sidled up with something in
his beak.

"It is only a bread pill, you had much better take it; drink a little
milk, my dear Duchess!"

"Gammon? Gammon?" said the doctor, while Duchess coughed and choked.

"Don't say that again!" said Ribby, losing her temper--"Here, take
this bread and jam, and get out into the yard!"

[Illustration]

"Gammon and Spinach! ha ha HA!" shouted Dr. Maggotty triumphantly
outside the back door.

"I am feeling very much better my dear Ribby," said Duchess. "Do you
not think that I had better go home before it gets dark?"

"Perhaps it might be wise, my dear Duchess. I will lend you a nice
warm shawl, and you shall take my arm."

"I would not trouble you for worlds; I feel wonderfully better. One
pill of Dr. Maggotty--"

"Indeed it is most admirable, if it has cured you of a patty-pan! I
will call directly after breakfast to ask how you have slept."

Ribby and Duchess said goodbye affectionately, and Duchess started
home. Half-way up the lane she stopped and looked back; Ribby had gone
in and shut her door. Duchess slipped through the fence, and ran round
to the back of Ribby's house, and peeped into the yard.

Upon the roof of the pig-stye sat Dr. Maggotty and three jackdaws. The
jackdaws were eating pie-crust, and the magpie was drinking gravy out
of a patty-pan.

"Gammon, ha, HA!" he shouted when he saw Duchess's little black nose
peeping round the corner.

Duchess ran home feeling uncommonly silly!

When Ribby came out for a pailful of water to wash up the tea-things,
she found a pink and white pie-dish lying smashed in the
middle of the yard. The patty-pan was under the pump, where Dr.
Maggotty had considerately left it.

[Illustration: SO THERE REALLY _WAS_ A PATTY-PAN]

Ribby stared with amazement--"Did you ever see the like! so there
really _was_ a patty-pan?... But _my_ patty-pans are all in the
kitchen cupboard. Well I never did!... Next time I want to give a
party--I will invite Cousin Tabitha Twitchit!"

[Illustration]


E-text prepared by Robert Cicconetti, Jason Isbell, and the Project
Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading Team (https://www.pgdp.net)

THE TALE OF JOHNNY TOWN-MOUSE

By BEATRIX POTTER

Author of "The Tale of Peter Rabbit," &c.

Frederick Warne & Co., Inc.
New York

1918

TO AESOP IN THE SHADOWS

Johnny Town-mouse was born in a cupboard. Timmy Willie was born in a
garden. Timmy Willie was a little country mouse who went to town by
mistake in a hamper. The gardener sent vegetables to town once a week by
carrier; he packed them in a big hamper.

The gardener left the hamper by the garden gate, so that the carrier
could pick it up when he passed. Timmy Willie crept in through a hole in
the wicker-work, and after eating some peas--Timmy Willie fell fast
asleep.

He awoke in a fright, while the hamper was being lifted into the carrier's
cart. Then there was a jolting, and a clattering of horse's feet; other
packages were thrown in; for miles and miles--jolt--jolt--jolt! and
Timmy Willie trembled amongst the jumbled up vegetables.

At last the cart stopped at a house, where the hamper was taken out,
carried in, and set down. The cook gave the carrier sixpence; the back
door banged, and the cart rumbled away. But there was no quiet; there
seemed to be hundreds of carts passing. Dogs barked; boys whistled in
the street; the cook laughed, the parlour maid ran up and down-stairs;
and a canary sang like a steam engine.

Timmy Willie, who had lived all his life in a garden, was almost
frightened to death. Presently the cook opened the hamper and began to
unpack the vegetables. Out sprang the terrified Timmy Willie.

Up jumped the cook on a chair, exclaiming "A mouse! a mouse! Call the
cat! Fetch me the poker, Sarah!" Timmy Willie did not wait for Sarah
with the poker; he rushed along the skirting board till he came to a
little hole, and in he popped.

He dropped half a foot, and crashed into the middle of a mouse dinner
party, breaking three glasses.--"Who in the world is this?" inquired
Johnny Town-mouse. But after the first exclamation of surprise he
instantly recovered his manners.

With the utmost politeness he introduced Timmy Willie to nine other
mice, all with long tails and white neckties. Timmy Willie's own tail
was insignificant. Johnny Town-mouse and his friends noticed it; but
they were too well bred to make personal remarks; only one of them asked
Timmy Willie if he had ever been in a trap?

The dinner was of eight courses; not much of anything, but truly
elegant. All the dishes were unknown to Timmy Willie, who would have
been a little afraid of tasting them; only he was very hungry, and very
anxious to behave with company manners. The continual noise upstairs
made him so nervous, that he dropped a plate. "Never mind, they don't
belong to us," said Johnny.

"Why don't those youngsters come back with the dessert?" It should be
explained that two young mice, who were waiting on the others, went
skirmishing upstairs to the kitchen between courses. Several times they
had come tumbling in, squeaking and laughing; Timmy Willie learnt with
horror that they were being chased by the cat. His appetite failed, he
felt faint. "Try some jelly?" said Johnny Town-mouse.

"No? Would you rather go to bed? I will show you a most comfortable
sofa pillow."

The sofa pillow had a hole in it. Johnny Town-mouse quite honestly
recommended it as the best bed, kept exclusively for visitors. But the
sofa smelt of cat. Timmy Willie preferred to spend a miserable night
under the fender.

It was just the same next day. An excellent breakfast was provided--for
mice accustomed to eat bacon; but Timmy Willie had been reared on roots
and salad. Johnny Town-mouse and his friends racketted about under the
floors, and came boldly out all over the house in the evening. One
particularly loud crash had been caused by Sarah tumbling downstairs
with the tea-tray; there were crumbs and sugar and smears of jam to be
collected, in spite of the cat.

Timmy Willie longed to be at home in his peaceful nest in a sunny bank.
The food disagreed with him; the noise prevented him from sleeping. In a
few days he grew so thin that Johnny Town-mouse noticed it, and
questioned him. He listened to Timmy Willie's story and inquired about
the garden. "It sounds rather a dull place? What do you do when it
rains?"

"When it rains, I sit in my little sandy burrow and shell corn and
seeds from my Autumn store. I peep out at the throstles and blackbirds
on the lawn, and my friend Cock Robin. And when the sun comes out again,
you should see my garden and the flowers--roses and pinks and
pansies--no noise except the birds and bees, and the lambs in the
meadows."

"There goes that cat again!" exclaimed Johnny Town-mouse. When they had
taken refuge in the coal-cellar he resumed the conversation; "I confess
I am a little disappointed; we have endeavoured to entertain you,
Timothy William."

"Oh yes, yes, you have been most kind; but I do feel so ill," said Timmy
Willie.

"It may be that your teeth and digestion are unaccustomed to our food;
perhaps it might be wiser for you to return in the hamper."

"Oh? Oh!" cried Timmy Willie.

"Why of course for the matter of that we could have sent you back last
week," said Johnny rather huffily--"did you not know that the hamper
goes back empty on Saturdays?"

So Timmy Willie said good-bye to his new friends, and hid in the hamper
with a crumb of cake and a withered cabbage leaf; and after much
jolting, he was set down safely in his own garden.

Sometimes on Saturdays he went to look at the hamper lying by the gate,
but he knew better than to get in again. And nobody got out, though
Johnny Town-mouse had half promised a visit.

The winter passed; the sun came out again; Timmy Willie sat by his
burrow warming his little fur coat and sniffing the smell of violets and
spring grass. He had nearly forgotten his visit to town. When up the
sandy path all spick and span with a brown leather bag came Johnny
Town-mouse!

Timmy Willie received him with open arms. "You have come at the best of
all the year, we will have herb pudding and sit in the sun."

"H'm'm! it is a little damp," said Johnny Town-mouse, who was carrying
his tail under his arm, out of the mud.

"What is that fearful noise?" he started violently.

"That?" said Timmy Willie, "that is only a cow; I will beg a little
milk, they are quite harmless, unless they happen to lie down upon you.
How are all our friends?"

Johnny's account was rather middling. He explained why he was paying
his visit so early in the season; the family had gone to the sea-side
for Easter; the cook was doing spring cleaning, on board wages, with
particular instructions to clear out the mice. There were four kittens,
and the cat had killed the canary.

"They say we did it; but I know better," said Johnny Town-mouse.
"Whatever is that fearful racket?"

"That is only the lawn-mower; I will fetch some of the grass clippings
presently to make your bed. I am sure you had better settle in the
country, Johnny."

"H'm'm--we shall see by Tuesday week; the hamper is stopped while they
are at the sea-side."

"I am sure you will never want to live in town again," said Timmy
Willie.

But he did. He went back in the very next hamper of vegetables; he said
it was too quiet!!

One place suits one person, another place suits another person. For my
part I prefer to live in the country, like Timmy Willie.


THE TALE OF
TIMMY TIPTOES

[Illustration]

By
BEATRIX POTTER

Author of
"The Tale of Peter Rabbit," etc.

[Illustration]

FREDERICK WARNE & CO., INC.
NEW YORK

1911
BY
FREDERICK WARNE & Co.

PRINTED IN THE U.S.A. BY
PRINCETON POLYCHROME PRESS

BINDING BY
A. HOROWITZ & SON

FOR

MANY UNKNOWN LITTLE FRIENDS,

INCLUDING MONICA

[Illustration]

Once upon a time there was a little fat comfortable grey squirrel, called
Timmy Tiptoes. He had a nest thatched with leaves in the top of a tall
tree; and he had a little squirrel wife called Goody.

[Illustration]

Timmy Tiptoes sat out, enjoying the breeze; he whisked his tail and
chuckled--"Little wife Goody, the nuts are ripe; we must lay up a store
for winter and spring." Goody Tiptoes was busy pushing moss under the
thatch--"The nest is so snug, we shall be sound asleep all winter." "Then
we shall wake up all the thinner, when there is nothing to eat in
spring-time," replied prudent Timothy.

[Illustration]

When Timmy and Goody Tiptoes came to the nut thicket, they found other
squirrels were there already.

Timmy took off his jacket and hung it on a twig; they worked away quietly
by themselves.

[Illustration]

Every day they made several journeys and picked quantities of nuts. They
carried them away in bags, and stored them in several hollow stumps near
the tree where they had built their nest.

[Illustration]

When these stumps were full, they began to empty the bags into a hole high
up a tree, that had belonged to a wood-pecker; the nuts rattled
down--down--down inside.

"How shall you ever get them out again? It is like a money-box!" said
Goody.

"I shall be much thinner before spring-time, my love," said Timmy Tiptoes,
peeping into the hole.

[Illustration]

They did collect quantities--because they did not lose them! Squirrels who
bury their nuts in the ground lose more than half, because they cannot
remember the place.

The most forgetful squirrel in the wood was called Silvertail. He began to
dig, and he could not remember. And then he dug again and found some nuts
that did not belong to him; and there was a fight. And other squirrels
began to dig,--the whole wood was in commotion!

[Illustration]

Unfortunately, just at this time a flock of little birds flew by, from
bush to bush, searching for green caterpillars and spiders. There were
several sorts of little birds, twittering different songs.

The first one sang--"Who's bin digging-up _my_ nuts? Who's-been-digging-up
_my_ nuts?"

And another sang--"Little bita bread and-_no_-cheese! Little bit-a-bread
an'-_no_-cheese!"

[Illustration]

The squirrels followed and listened. The first little bird flew into the
bush where Timmy and Goody Tiptoes were quietly tying up their bags, and
it sang--"Who's-bin digging-up _my_ nuts? Who's been digging-up
_my_-nuts?"

Timmy Tiptoes went on with his work without replying; indeed, the little
bird did not expect an answer. It was only singing its natural song, and
it meant nothing at all.

[Illustration]

But when the other squirrels heard that song, they rushed upon Timmy
Tiptoes and cuffed and scratched him, and upset his bag of nuts. The
innocent little bird which had caused all the mischief, flew away in a
fright!

Timmy rolled over and over, and then turned tail and fled towards his
nest, followed by a crowd of squirrels shouting--"Who's-been digging-up
_my_-nuts?"

[Illustration]

They caught him and dragged him up the very same tree, where there was the
little round hole, and they pushed him in. The hole was much too small for
Timmy Tiptoes' figure. They squeezed him dreadfully, it was a wonder they
did not break his ribs. "We will leave him here till he confesses," said
Silvertail Squirrel, and he shouted into the hole--

"Who's-been-digging-up _my_-nuts?"

[Illustration]

Timmy Tiptoes made no reply; he had tumbled down inside the tree, upon
half a peck of nuts belonging to himself. He lay quite stunned and still.

[Illustration]

Goody Tiptoes picked up the nut bags and went home. She made a cup of tea
for Timmy; but he didn't come and didn't come.

Goody Tiptoes passed a lonely and unhappy night. Next morning she ventured
back to the nut-bushes to look for him; but the other unkind squirrels
drove her away.

She wandered all over the wood, calling--

"Timmy Tiptoes! Timmy Tiptoes! Oh, where is Timmy Tiptoes?"

[Illustration]

In the meantime Timmy Tiptoes came to his senses. He found himself tucked
up in a little moss bed, very much in the dark, feeling sore; it seemed to
be under ground. Timmy coughed and groaned, because his ribs hurted him.
There was a chirpy noise, and a small striped Chipmunk appeared with a
night light, and hoped he felt better?

It was most kind to Timmy Tiptoes; it lent him its night-cap; and the
house was full of provisions.

[Illustration]

The Chipmunk explained that it had rained nuts through the top of the
tree--"Besides, I found a few buried!" It laughed and chuckled when it
heard Timmy's story. While Timmy was confined to bed, it 'ticed him to eat
quantities--"But how shall I ever get out through that hole unless I thin
myself? My wife will be anxious!" "Just another nut--or two nuts; let me
crack them for you," said the Chipmunk. Timmy Tiptoes grew fatter and
fatter!

[Illustration]

Now Goody Tiptoes had set to work again by herself. She did not put any
more nuts into the woodpecker's hole, because she had always doubted how
they could be got out again. She hid them under a tree root; they rattled
down, down, down. Once when Goody emptied an extra big bagful, there was a
decided squeak; and next time Goody brought another bagful, a little
striped Chipmunk scrambled out in a hurry.

[Illustration]

"It is getting perfectly full-up down-stairs; the sitting-room is full,
and they are rolling along the passage; and my husband, Chippy Hackee, has
run away and left me. What is the explanation of these showers of nuts?"

"I am sure I beg your pardon; I did not know that anybody lived here,"
said Mrs. Goody Tiptoes; "but where is Chippy Hackee? My husband, Timmy
Tiptoes, has run away too." "I know where Chippy is; a little bird told
me," said Mrs. Chippy Hackee.

[Illustration]

She led the way to the woodpecker's tree, and they listened at the hole.

Down below there was a noise of nut crackers, and a fat squirrel voice and
a thin squirrel voice were singing together--

    "My little old man and I fell out,
     How shall we bring this matter about?
     Bring it about as well as you can,
     And get you gone, you little old man!"

[Illustration]

"You could squeeze in, through that little round hole," said Goody
Tiptoes. "Yes, I could," said the Chipmunk, "but my husband, Chippy
Hackee, bites!"

Down below there was a noise of cracking nuts and nibbling; and then the
fat squirrel voice and the thin squirrel voice sang--

    "For the diddlum day
     Day diddle dum di!
     Day diddle diddle dum day!"

[Illustration]

Then Goody peeped in at the hole, and called down--"Timmy Tiptoes! Oh fie,
Timmy Tiptoes!" And Timmy replied, "Is that you, Goody Tiptoes? Why,
certainly!"

He came up and kissed Goody through the hole; but he was so fat that he
could not get out.

Chippy Hackee was not too fat, but he did not want to come; he stayed down
below and chuckled.

[Illustration]

And so it went on for a fortnight; till a big wind blew off the top of the
tree, and opened up the hole and let in the rain.

Then Timmy Tiptoes came out, and went home with an umbrella.

[Illustration]

But Chippy Hackee continued to camp out for another week, although it was
uncomfortable.

[Illustration]

At last a large bear came walking through the wood. Perhaps he also was
looking for nuts; he seemed to be sniffing around.

[Illustration]

Chippy Hackee went home in a hurry!

[Illustration]

And when Chippy Hackee got home, he found he had caught a cold in his
head; and he was more uncomfortable still.

[Illustration]

And now Timmy and Goody Tiptoes keep their nut-store fastened up with a
little padlock.

[Illustration]

And whenever that little bird sees the Chipmunks, he
sings--"Who's-been-digging-up _my_-nuts? Who's been digging-up _my_-nuts?"
But nobody ever answers!

THE END


THE TALE OF GINGER AND PICKLES

DEDICATED

WITH VERY KIND REGARDS TO OLD MR. JOHN TAYLOR,

WHO "THINKS HE MIGHT PASS AS A DORMOUSE!" (
THREE YEARS IN BED AND NEVER A GRUMBLE!)

[Illustration]

THE TALE OF GINGER & PICKLES

BY BEATRIX POTTER

_Author of "The Tale of Peter Rabbit," &c._

[Illustration]

FREDERICK WARNE

1909 by Frederick Warne & Co.

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
William Clowes Limited, Beccles and London

[Illustration]

Once upon a time there was a village shop. The name over the window was
"Ginger and Pickles."

It was a little small shop just the right size for Dolls--Lucinda and Jane
Doll-cook always bought their groceries at Ginger and Pickles.

The counter inside was a convenient height for rabbits. Ginger and
Pickles sold red spotty pocket-handkerchiefs at a penny three farthings.

They also sold sugar, and snuff and galoshes.

In fact, although it was such a small shop it sold nearly
everything--except a few things that you want in a hurry--like bootlaces,
hair-pins and mutton chops.

Ginger and Pickles were the people who kept the shop. Ginger was a yellow
tom-cat, and Pickles was a terrier.

The rabbits were always a little bit afraid of Pickles.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

The shop was also patronized by mice--only the mice were rather afraid of
Ginger.

Ginger usually requested Pickles to serve them, because he said it made
his mouth water.

"I cannot bear," said he, "to see them going out at the door carrying
their little parcels."

"I have the same feeling about rats," replied Pickles, "but it would
never do to eat our own customers; they would leave us and go to Tabitha
Twitchit's."

"On the contrary, they would go nowhere," replied Ginger gloomily.

(Tabitha Twitchit kept the only other shop in the village. She did not
give credit.)

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Ginger and Pickles gave unlimited credit.

Now the meaning of "credit" is this--when a customer buys a bar of soap,
instead of the customer pulling out a purse and paying for it--she says
she will pay another time.

And Pickles makes a low bow and says, "With pleasure, madam," and it is
written down in a book.

The customers come again and again, and buy quantities, in spite of being
afraid of Ginger and Pickles.

But there is no money in what is called the "till."

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

The customers came in crowds every day and bought quantities, especially
the toffee customers. But there was always no money; they never paid for
as much as a pennyworth of peppermints.

But the sales were enormous, ten times as large as Tabitha Twitchit's.

[Illustration]

As there was always no money, Ginger and Pickles were obliged to eat
their own goods.

Pickles ate biscuits and Ginger ate a dried haddock.

They ate them by candle-light after the shop was closed.

[Illustration]

When it came to Jan. 1st there was still no money, and Pickles was unable
to buy a dog licence.

"It is very unpleasant, I am afraid of the police," said Pickles.

"It is your own fault for being a terrier; _I_ do not require a licence,
and neither does Kep, the Collie dog."

"It is very uncomfortable, I am afraid I shall be summoned. I have tried
in vain to get a licence upon credit at the Post Office;" said Pickles.
"The place is full of policemen. I met one as I was coming home."

"Let us send in the bill again to Samuel Whiskers, Ginger, he owes 22/9
for bacon."

"I do not believe that he intends to pay at all," replied Ginger.

[Illustration]

"And I feel sure that Anna Maria pockets things--Where are all the cream
crackers?"

"You have eaten them yourself," replied Ginger.

[Illustration]

Ginger and Pickles retired into the back parlour.

They did accounts. They added up sums and sums, and sums.

"Samuel Whiskers has run up a bill as long as his tail; he has had an
ounce and three-quarters of snuff since October."

"What is seven pounds of butter at 1/3, and a stick of sealing wax and
four matches?"

"Send in all the bills again to everybody 'with comp'ts,'" replied Ginger.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

After a time they heard a noise in the shop, as if something had been
pushed in at the door. They came out of the back parlour. There was an
envelope lying on the counter, and a policeman writing in a note-book!

Pickles nearly had a fit, he barked and he barked and made little rushes.

"Bite him, Pickles! bite him!" spluttered Ginger behind a sugar-barrel,
"he's only a German doll!"

The policeman went on writing in his notebook; twice he put his pencil in
his mouth, and once he dipped it in the treacle.

Pickles barked till he was hoarse. But still the policeman took no notice.
He had bead eyes, and his helmet was sewed on with stitches.

[Illustration]

At length on his last little rush--Pickles found that the shop was empty.
The policeman had disappeared.

But the envelope remained.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

"Do you think that he has gone to fetch a real live policeman? I am afraid
it is a summons," said Pickles.

"No," replied Ginger, who had opened the envelope, "it is the rates and
taxes, £3 19 11-3/4."

"This is the last straw," said Pickles, "let us close the shop."

They put up the shutters, and left. But they have not removed from the
neighbourhood. In fact some people wish they had gone further.

[Illustration]

Ginger is living in the warren. I do not know what occupation he pursues;
he looks stout and comfortable.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Pickles is at present a gamekeeper.

[Illustration]

The closing of the shop caused great inconvenience. Tabitha Twitchit
immediately raised the price of everything a half-penny; and she continued
to refuse to give credit.

Of course there are the trades-men's carts--the butcher, the fish-man and
Timothy Baker.

But a person cannot live on "seed wigs" and sponge-cake and
butter-buns--not even when the sponge-cake is as good as Timothy's!

[Illustration]

After a time Mr. John Dormouse and his daughter began to sell peppermints
and candles.

But they did not keep "self-fitting sixes"; and it takes five mice to
carry one seven inch candle.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Besides--the candles which they sell behave very strangely in warm
weather.

[Illustration]

And Miss Dormouse refused to take back the ends when they were brought
back to her with complaints.

And when Mr. John Dormouse was complained to, he stayed in bed, and would
say nothing but "very snug;" which is not the way to carry on a retail
business.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

So everybody was pleased when Sally Henny Penny sent out a printed poster
to say that she was going to re-open the shop--"Henny's Opening Sale!
Grand co-operative Jumble! Penny's penny prices! Come buy, come try, come
buy!"

The poster really was most 'ticing.

[Illustration]

There was a rush upon the opening day. The shop was crammed with
customers, and there were crowds of mice upon the biscuit canisters.

Sally Henny Penny gets rather flustered when she tries to count out
change, and she insists on being paid cash; but she is quite harmless.

[Illustration]

And she has laid in a remarkable assortment of bargains.

There is something to please everybody.


[Illustration]

THE TAILOR OF
GLOUCESTER

BY
BEATRIX POTTER

_Author of
"The Tale of Peter Rabbit," etc_

    "I'LL BE AT CHARGES FOR A LOOKING-GLASS,
     AND ENTERTAIN A SCORE OR TWO OF TAILORS"
                           _Richard III_

NEW YORK

FREDERICK WARNE & CO, INC

COPYRIGHT, 1903

BY

FREDERICK WARNE & Co.

COPYRIGHT RENEWED, 1931

[_All rights reserved_]

PRINTED IN THE U.S.A. BY PRINCETON POLYCHROME PRESS

ISBN O 7232 0594 9 (cloth) ISBN O-7232-6227-6 (paper)

12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20(C) F/

    _MY DEAR FREDA,_

    _Because you are fond of fairy-tales, and have been ill, I have
    made you a story all for yourself--a new one that nobody has
    read before._

    _And the queerest thing about it is--that I heard it in
    Gloucestershire, and that it is true--at least about the tailor,
    the waistcoat, and the_

    _"No more twist!"_

    _Christmas, 1901_

[Illustration]

THE TAILOR OF GLOUCESTER

In the time of swords and periwigs and full-skirted coats with flowered
lappets--when gentlemen wore ruffles, and gold-laced waistcoats of
paduasoy and taffeta--there lived a tailor in Gloucester.

He sat in the window of a little shop in Westgate Street, cross-legged on
a table, from morning till dark.

All day long while the light lasted he sewed and snippeted, piecing out
his satin and pompadour, and lutestring; stuffs had strange names, and
were very expensive in the days of the Tailor of Gloucester.

But although he sewed fine silk for his neighbours, he himself was very,
very poor--a little old man in spectacles, with a pinched face, old
crooked fingers, and a suit of thread-bare clothes.

He cut his coats without waste, according to his embroidered cloth; they
were very small ends and snippets that lay about upon the table--"Too
narrow breadths for nought--except waistcoats for mice," said the tailor.

[Illustration]

One bitter cold day near Christmastime the tailor began to make a coat--a
coat of cherry-coloured corded silk embroidered with pansies and roses,
and a cream coloured satin waistcoat--trimmed with gauze and green
worsted chenille--for the Mayor of Gloucester.

[Illustration]

The tailor worked and worked, and he talked to himself. He measured the
silk, and turned it round and round, and trimmed it into shape with his
shears; the table was all littered with cherry-coloured snippets.

"No breadth at all, and cut on the cross; it is no breadth at all; tippets
for mice and ribbons for mobs! for mice!" said the Tailor of Gloucester.

When the snow-flakes came down against the small leaded window-panes and
shut out the light, the tailor had done his day's work; all the silk and
satin lay cut out upon the table.

[Illustration]

There were twelve pieces for the coat and four pieces for the waistcoat;
and there were pocket flaps and cuffs, and buttons all in order. For the
lining of the coat there was fine yellow taffeta; and for the button-holes
of the waistcoat, there was cherry-coloured twist. And everything was
ready to sew together in the morning, all measured and sufficient--except
that there was wanting just one single skein of cherry-coloured twisted
silk.

The tailor came out of his shop at dark, for he did not sleep there at
nights; he fastened the window and locked the door, and took away the key.
No one lived there at night but little brown mice, and they run in and out
without any keys!

[Illustration]

For behind the wooden wainscots of all the old houses in Gloucester, there
are little mouse staircases and secret trap-doors; and the mice run from
house to house through those long narrow passages; they can run all over
the town without going into the streets.

But the tailor came out of his shop, and shuffled home through the snow.
He lived quite near by in College Court, next the doorway to College
Green; and although it was not a big house, the tailor was so poor he only
rented the kitchen.

He lived alone with his cat; it was called Simpkin.

[Illustration]

Now all day long while the tailor was out at work, Simpkin kept house by
himself; and he also was fond of the mice, though he gave them no satin
for coats!

"Miaw?" said the cat when the tailor opened the door. "Miaw?"

The tailor replied--"Simpkin, we shall make our fortune, but I am worn to
a ravelling. Take this groat (which is our last fourpence) and Simpkin,
take a china pipkin; buy a penn'orth of bread, a penn'orth of milk and a
penn'orth of sausages. And oh, Simpkin, with the last penny of our
fourpence buy me one penn'orth of cherry-coloured silk. But do not lose
the last penny of the fourpence, Simpkin, or I am undone and worn to a
thread-paper, for I have NO MORE TWIST."

[Illustration]

Then Simpkin again said, "Miaw?" and took the groat and the pipkin, and
went out into the dark.

The tailor was very tired and beginning to be ill. He sat down by the
hearth and talked to himself about that wonderful coat.

"I shall make my fortune--to be cut bias--the Mayor of Gloucester is to be
married on Christmas Day in the morning, and he hath ordered a coat and an
embroidered waistcoat--to be lined with yellow taffeta--and the taffeta
sufficeth; there is no more left over in snippets than will serve to make
tippets for mice----"

Then the tailor started; for suddenly, interrupting him, from the dresser
at the other side of the kitchen came a number of little noises--

_Tip tap, tip tap, tip tap tip!_

"Now what can that be?" said the Tailor of Gloucester, jumping up from his
chair. The dresser was covered with crockery and pipkins, willow pattern
plates, and tea-cups and mugs.

The tailor crossed the kitchen, and stood quite still beside the dresser,
listening, and peering through his spectacles. Again from under a tea-cup,
came those funny little noises--

_Tip tap, tip tap, Tip tap tip!_

"This is very peculiar," said the Tailor of Gloucester; and he lifted up
the tea-cup which was upside down.

[Illustration]

Out stepped a little live lady mouse, and made a curtsey to the tailor!
Then she hopped away down off the dresser, and under the wainscot.

The tailor sat down again by the fire, warming his poor cold hands, and
mumbling to himself----

"The waistcoat is cut out from peach-coloured satin--tambour stitch and
rose-buds in beautiful floss silk. Was I wise to entrust my last fourpence
to Simpkin? One-and-twenty button-holes of cherry-coloured twist!"

But all at once, from the dresser, there came other little noises:

_Tip tap, tip tap, tip tap tip!_

"This is passing extraordinary!" said the Tailor of Gloucester, and
turned over another tea-cup, which was upside down.

[Illustration]

Out stepped a little gentleman mouse, and made a bow to the tailor!

And then from all over the dresser came a chorus of little tappings, all
sounding together, and answering one another, like watch-beetles in an old
worm-eaten window-shutter--

_Tip tap, tip tap, tip tap tip_!

And out from under tea-cups and from under bowls and basins, stepped other
and more little mice who hopped away down off the dresser and under the
wainscot.

[Illustration]

The tailor sat down, close over the fire, lamenting--"One-and-twenty
button-holes of cherry-coloured silk! To be finished by noon of
Saturday: and this is Tuesday evening. Was it right to let loose those
mice, undoubtedly the property of Simpkin? Alack, I am undone, for I have
no more twist!"

The little mice came out again, and listened to the tailor; they took
notice of the pattern of that wonderful coat. They whispered to one
another about the taffeta lining, and about little mouse tippets.

And then all at once they all ran away together down the passage behind
the wainscot, squeaking and calling to one another, as they ran from house
to house; and not one mouse was left in the tailor's kitchen when Simpkin
came back with the pipkin of milk!

[Illustration]

Simpkin opened the door and bounced in, with an angry "G-r-r-miaw!" like a
cat that is vexed: for he hated the snow, and there was snow in his ears,
and snow in his collar at the back of his neck. He put down the loaf and
the sausages upon the dresser, and sniffed.

"Simpkin," said the tailor, "where is my twist?"

But Simpkin set down the pipkin of milk upon the dresser, and looked
suspiciously at the tea-cups. He wanted his supper of little fat mouse!

"Simpkin," said the tailor, "where is my TWIST?"

[Illustration]

But Simpkin hid a little parcel privately in the tea-pot, and spit and
growled at the tailor; and if Simpkin had been able to talk, he would have
asked: "Where is my MOUSE?"

"Alack, I am undone!" said the Tailor of Gloucester, and went sadly to
bed.

All that night long Simpkin hunted and searched through the kitchen,
peeping into cupboards and under the wainscot, and into the tea-pot where
he had hidden that twist; but still he found never a mouse!

Whenever the tailor muttered and talked in his sleep, Simpkin said
"Miaw-ger-r-w-s-s-ch!" and made strange horrid noises, as cats do at
night.

[Illustration]

For the poor old tailor was very ill with a fever, tossing and turning in
his four-post bed; and still in his dreams he mumbled--"No more twist! no
more twist!"

All that day he was ill, and the next day, and the next; and what should
become of the cherry-coloured coat? In the tailor's shop in Westgate
Street the embroidered silk and satin lay cut out upon the
table--one-and-twenty button-holes--and who should come to sew them, when
the window was barred, and the door was fast locked?

But that does not hinder the little brown mice; they run in and out
without any keys through all the old houses in Gloucester!

[Illustration]

Out of doors the market folks went trudging through the snow to buy their
geese and turkeys, and to bake their Christmas pies; but there would be no
Christmas dinner for Simpkin and the poor old Tailor of Gloucester.

The tailor lay ill for three days and nights; and then it was Christmas
Eve, and very late at night. The moon climbed up over the roofs and
chimneys, and looked down over the gateway into College Court. There were
no lights in the windows, nor any sound in the houses; all the city of
Gloucester was fast asleep under the snow.

And still Simpkin wanted his mice, and he mewed as he stood beside the
four-post bed.

[Illustration]

But it is in the old story that all the beasts can talk, in the night
between Christmas Eve and Christmas Day in the morning (though there are
very few folk that can hear them, or know what it is that they say).

When the Cathedral clock struck twelve there was an answer--like an echo
of the chimes--and Simpkin heard it, and came out of the tailor's door,
and wandered about in the snow.

From all the roofs and gables and old wooden houses in Gloucester came a
thousand merry voices singing the old Christmas rhymes--all the old songs
that ever I heard of, and some that I don't know, like Whittington's
bells.

[Illustration]

First and loudest the cocks cried out: "Dame, get up, and bake your pies!"

"Oh, dilly, dilly, dilly!" sighed Simpkin.

And now in a garret there were lights and sounds of dancing, and cats came
from over the way.

"Hey, diddle, diddle, the cat and the fiddle! All the cats in
Gloucester--except me," said Simpkin.

Under the wooden eaves the starlings and sparrows sang of Christmas pies;
the jack-daws woke up in the Cathedral tower; and although it was the
middle of the night the throstles and robins sang; the air was quite full
of little twittering tunes.

[Illustration]

But it was all rather provoking to poor hungry Simpkin!

Particularly he was vexed with some little shrill voices from behind a
wooden lattice. I think that they were bats, because they always have very
small voices--especially in a black frost, when they talk in their sleep,
like the Tailor of Gloucester.

They said something mysterious that sounded like--

    "Buz, quoth the blue fly, hum, quoth the bee,
     Buz and hum they cry, and so do we!"

and Simpkin went away shaking his ears as if he had a bee in his bonnet.

[Illustration]

From the tailor's shop in Westgate came a glow of light; and when Simpkin
crept up to peep in at the window it was full of candles. There was a
snippeting of scissors, and snappeting of thread; and little mouse voices
sang loudly and gaily--

            "Four-and-twenty tailors
             Went to catch a snail,
             The best man amongst them
             Durst not touch her tail,
             She put out her horns
             Like a little kyloe cow,
    Run, tailors, run! or she'll have you all e'en now!"

Then without a pause the little mouse voices went on again--

    "Sieve my lady's oatmeal,
     Grind my lady's flour,
     Put it in a chestnut,
     Let it stand an hour----"

[Illustration]

"Mew! Mew!" interrupted Simpkin, and he scratched at the door. But the
key was under the tailor's pillow, he could not get in.

The little mice only laughed, and tried another tune--

    "Three little mice sat down to spin,
     Pussy passed by and she peeped in.
     What are you at, my fine little men?
     Making coats for gentlemen.
     Shall I come in and cut off your threads?
     Oh, no, Miss Pussy, you'd bite off our heads!"

"Mew! Mew!" cried Simpkin. "Hey diddle dinketty?" answered the little
mice--

    "Hey diddle dinketty, poppetty pet!
     The merchants of London they wear scarlet;
     Silk in the collar, and gold in the hem,
     So merrily march the merchantmen!"

[Illustration]

They clicked their thimbles to mark the time, but none of the songs
pleased Simpkin; he sniffed and mewed at the door of the shop.

    "And then I bought
     A pipkin and a popkin,
     A slipkin and a slopkin,
     All for one farthing----

and upon the kitchen dresser!" added the rude little mice.

"Mew! scratch! scratch!" scuffled Simpkin on the window-sill; while the
little mice inside sprang to their feet, and all began to shout at once in
little twittering voices: "No more twist! No more twist!" And they barred
up the window shutters and shut out Simpkin.

But still through the nicks in the shutters he could hear the click of
thimbles, and little mouse voices singing--

[Illustration]

"No more twist! No more twist!"

Simpkin came away from the shop and went home, considering in his mind. He
found the poor old tailor without fever, sleeping peacefully.

Then Simpkin went on tip-toe and took a little parcel of silk out of the
tea-pot, and looked at it in the moonlight; and he felt quite ashamed of
his badness compared with those good little mice!

When the tailor awoke in the morning, the first thing which he saw upon
the patchwork quilt, was a skein of cherry-coloured twisted silk, and
beside his bed stood the repentant Simpkin!

[Illustration]

"Alack, I am worn to a ravelling," said the Tailor of Gloucester, "but I
have my twist!"

The sun was shining on the snow when the tailor got up and dressed, and
came out into the street with Simpkin running before him.

The starlings whistled on the chimney stacks, and the throstles and robins
sang--but they sang their own little noises, not the words they had sung
in the night.

"Alack," said the tailor, "I have my twist; but no more strength--nor
time--than will serve to make me one single button-hole; for this is
Christmas Day in the Morning! The Mayor of Gloucester shall be married by
noon--and where is his cherry-coloured coat?"

He unlocked the door of the little shop in Westgate Street, and Simpkin
ran in, like a cat that expects something.

But there was no one there! Not even one little brown mouse!

The boards were swept clean; the little ends of thread and the little silk
snippets were all tidied away, and gone from off the floor.

But upon the table--oh joy! the tailor gave a shout--there, where he had
left plain cuttings of silk--there lay the most beautifullest coat and
embroidered satin waistcoat that ever were worn by a Mayor of Gloucester.

[Illustration]

There were roses and pansies upon the facings of the coat; and the
waistcoat was worked with poppies and corn-flowers.

[Illustration]

Everything was finished except just one single cherry-coloured
button-hole, and where that button-hole was wanting there was pinned a
scrap of paper with these words--in little teeny weeny writing--

              NO MORE TWIST

And from then began the luck of the Tailor of Gloucester; he grew quite
stout, and he grew quite rich.

He made the most wonderful waistcoats for all the rich merchants of
Gloucester, and for all the fine gentlemen of the country round.

[Illustration]

Never were seen such ruffles, or such embroidered cuffs and lappets! But
his button-holes were the greatest triumph of it all.

The stitches of those button-holes were so neat--_so_ neat--I wonder how
they could be stitched by an old man in spectacles, with crooked old
fingers, and a tailor's thimble.

The stitches of those button-holes were so small--_so_ small--they looked
as if they had been made by little mice!

THE END


[Illustration]

[Illustration]

THE STORY OF MISS MOPPET

BY BEATRIX POTTER

_Author of "The Tale of Peter Rabbit," etc_

[Illustration]

FREDERICK WARNE

First published 1906

1906 by Frederick Warne & Co.

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
William Clowes Limited, Beccles and London

[Illustration]

This is a Pussy called Miss Moppet, she thinks she has heard a mouse!

This is the Mouse peeping out behind the cupboard, and making fun of Miss
Moppet. He is not afraid of a kitten.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

This is Miss Moppet jumping just too late; she misses the Mouse and hits
her own head.

She thinks it is a very hard cupboard!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

The Mouse watches Miss Moppet from the top of the cupboard.

Miss Moppet ties up her head in a duster, and sits before the fire.

[Illustration]

The Mouse thinks she is looking very ill. He comes sliding down the
bell-pull.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Miss Moppet looks worse and worse. The Mouse comes a little nearer.

[Illustration]

Miss Moppet holds her poor head in her paws, and looks at him through a
hole in the duster. The Mouse comes _very_ close.

And then all of a sudden--Miss Moppet jumps upon the Mouse!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

And because the Mouse has teased Miss Moppet--Miss Moppet thinks she will
tease the Mouse; which is not at all nice of Miss Moppet.

She ties him up in the duster, and tosses it about like a ball.

[Illustration]

But she forgot about that hole in the duster; and when she untied
it--there was no Mouse!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

He has wriggled out and run away; and he is dancing a jig on the top of
the cupboard!


THE STORY OF A FIERCE BAD RABBIT

[Illustration]

    THE STORY OF

    A FIERCE BAD RABBIT

    BY

    BEATRIX POTTER

    _Author of
    "The Tale of Peter Rabbit," etc._

    [Illustration]

    LONDON

    FREDERICK WARNE & CO., LTD.

    AND NEW YORK

    [_All rights reserved_]

    _Copyright in all countries
    signatory to the Berne Convention._

    FREDERICK WARNE & CO. LTD.,
    LONDON

    PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN

[Illustration]

THIS is a fierce bad Rabbit; look at his savage whiskers, and his claws
and his turned-up tail.

THIS is a nice gentle Rabbit. His mother has given him a carrot.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

THE bad Rabbit would like some carrot.

HE doesn't say "Please." He takes it!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

AND he scratches the good Rabbit very badly.

THE good Rabbit creeps away, and hides in a hole. It feels sad.

[Illustration]

THIS is a man with a gun.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

HE sees something sitting on a bench. He thinks it is a very funny
bird!

[Illustration]

HE comes creeping up behind the trees.

AND then he shoots--BANG!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

THIS is what happens--

BUT this is all he finds on the bench, when he rushes up with his gun.

[Illustration]

THE good Rabbit peeps out of its hole,

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

AND it sees the bad Rabbit tearing past--without any tail or whiskers!

    PRINTED FOR THE PUBLISHERS BY R. J. SKINNER LTD.,
    4 CARMELITE STREET, LONDON, E.C.4.
