THE TRAGICAL HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS

By Christopher Marlowe

From The Quarto of 1604

Edited by The Rev. Alexander Dyce

THE TRAGICALL HISTORY OF D. FAUSTUS.  AS IT HATH BENE ACTED
BY THE RIGHT HONORABLE THE EARLE OF NOTTINGHAM HIS SERUANTS.
WRITTEN BY CH. MARL.

In reprinting this edition, I have here and there amended the text
by means of the later 4tos,--1616, 1624, 1631.--Of 4to 1663, which
contains various comparatively modern alterations and additions,
I have made no use.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE.

     THE POPE.
     CARDINAL OF LORRAIN.
     THE EMPEROR OF GERMANY.
     DUKE OF VANHOLT.
     FAUSTUS.
     VALDES,    ] friends to FAUSTUS.
     CORNELIUS, ]
     WAGNER, servant to FAUSTUS.
     Clown.
     ROBIN.
     RALPH.
     Vintner.
     Horse-courser.
     A Knight.
     An Old Man.
     Scholars, Friars, and Attendants.

     DUCHESS OF VANHOLT

     LUCIFER.
     BELZEBUB.
     MEPHISTOPHILIS.
     Good Angel.
     Evil Angel.
     The Seven Deadly Sins.
     Devils.
     Spirits in the shapes of ALEXANDER THE GREAT, of his Paramour
          and of HELEN.

     Chorus.

THE TRAGICAL HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS

FROM THE QUARTO OF 1604.

          Enter CHORUS.

     CHORUS. Not marching now in fields of Thrasymene,
     Where Mars did mate[1] the Carthaginians;
     Nor sporting in the dalliance of love,
     In courts of kings where state is overturn'd;
     Nor in the pomp of proud audacious deeds,
     Intends our Muse to vaunt[2] her[3] heavenly verse:
     Only this, gentlemen,--we must perform
     The form of Faustus' fortunes, good or bad:
     To patient judgments we appeal our plaud,
     And speak for Faustus in his infancy.
     Now is he born, his parents base of stock,
     In Germany, within a town call'd Rhodes:
     Of riper years, to Wertenberg he went,
     Whereas[4] his kinsmen chiefly brought him up.
     So soon he profits in divinity,
     The fruitful plot of scholarism grac'd,
     That shortly he was grac'd with doctor's name,
     Excelling all whose sweet delight disputes
     In heavenly matters of theology;
     Till swoln with cunning,[5] of a self-conceit,
     His waxen wings did mount above his reach,
     And, melting, heavens conspir'd his overthrow;
     For, falling to a devilish exercise,
     And glutted now[6] with learning's golden gifts,
     He surfeits upon cursed necromancy;
     Nothing so sweet as magic is to him,
     Which he prefers before his chiefest bliss:
     And this the man that in his study sits.
          [Exit.]

          FAUSTUS discovered in his study.[7]

     FAUSTUS. Settle thy studies, Faustus, and begin
     To sound the depth of that thou wilt profess:
     Having commenc'd, be a divine in shew,
     Yet level at the end of every art,
     And live and die in Aristotle's works.
     Sweet Analytics, 'tis thou[8] hast ravish'd me!
     Bene disserere est finis logices.
     Is, to dispute well, logic's chiefest end?
     Affords this art no greater miracle?
     Then read no more; thou hast attain'd that[9] end:
     A greater subject fitteth Faustus' wit:
     Bid Economy[10] farewell, and[11] Galen come,
     Seeing, Ubi desinit philosophus, ibi incipit medicus:
     Be a physician, Faustus; heap up gold,
     And be eterniz'd for some wondrous cure:
     Summum bonum medicinae sanitas,
     The end of physic is our body's health.
     Why, Faustus, hast thou not attain'd that end?
     Is not thy common talk found aphorisms?
     Are not thy bills hung up as monuments,
     Whereby whole cities have escap'd the plague,
     And thousand desperate maladies been eas'd?
     Yet art thou still but Faustus, and a man.
     Couldst[12] thou make men[13] to live eternally,
     Or, being dead, raise them to life again,
     Then this profession were to be esteem'd.
     Physic, farewell!  Where is Justinian?

          [Reads.]
     Si una eademque res legatur[14] duobus, alter rem,
     alter valorem rei, &c.

     A pretty case of paltry legacies!

          [Reads.]
     Exhoereditare filium non potest pater, nisi, &c.[15]

     Such is the subject of the institute,
     And universal body of the law:[16]
     This[17] study fits a mercenary drudge,
     Who aims at nothing but external trash;
     Too servile[18] and illiberal for me.
     When all is done, divinity is best:
     Jerome's Bible, Faustus; view it well.

          [Reads.]
     Stipendium peccati mors est.
                                   Ha!
                                        Stipendium, &c.

     The reward of sin is death:  that's hard.

          [Reads.]
     Si peccasse negamus, fallimur, et nulla est in nobis veritas;

     If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and
     there's no truth in us.  Why, then, belike we must sin, and so
     consequently die:
     Ay, we must die an everlasting death.
     What doctrine call you this, Che sera, sera,[19]
     What will be, shall be?  Divinity, adieu!
     These metaphysics of magicians,
     And necromantic books are heavenly;
     Lines, circles, scenes,[20] letters, and characters;
     Ay, these are those that Faustus most desires.
     O, what a world of profit and delight,
     Of power, of honour, of omnipotence,
     Is promis'd to the studious artizan!
     All things that move between the quiet poles
     Shall be at my command:  emperors and kings
     Are but obeyed in their several provinces,
     Nor can they raise the wind, or rend the clouds;
     But his dominion that exceeds in this,
     Stretcheth as far as doth the mind of man;
     A sound magician is a mighty god:
     Here, Faustus, tire[21] thy brains to gain a deity.

          Enter WAGNER.[22]

     Wagner, commend me to my dearest friends,
     The German Valdes and Cornelius;
     Request them earnestly to visit me.

     WAGNER. I will, sir.
          [Exit.]

     FAUSTUS. Their conference will be a greater help to me
     Than all my labours, plod I ne'er so fast.

          Enter GOOD ANGEL and EVIL ANGEL.

     GOOD ANGEL. O, Faustus, lay that damned book aside,
     And gaze not on it, lest it tempt thy soul,
     And heap God's heavy wrath upon thy head!
     Read, read the Scriptures:--that is blasphemy.

     EVIL ANGEL. Go forward, Faustus, in that famous art
     Wherein all Nature's treasure[23] is contain'd:
     Be thou on earth as Jove[24] is in the sky,
     Lord and commander of these elements.[25]
          [Exeunt Angels.]

     FAUSTUS. How am I glutted with conceit of this!
     Shall I make spirits fetch me what I please,
     Resolve[26] me of all ambiguities,
     Perform what desperate enterprise I will?
     I'll have them fly to India for gold,
     Ransack the ocean for orient pearl,
     And search all corners of the new-found world
     For pleasant fruits and princely delicates;
     I'll have them read me strange philosophy,
     And tell the secrets of all foreign kings;
     I'll have them wall all Germany with brass,
     And make swift Rhine circle fair Wertenberg;
     I'll have them fill the public schools with silk,[27]
     Wherewith the students shall be bravely clad;
     I'll levy soldiers with the coin they bring,
     And chase the Prince of Parma from our land,
     And reign sole king of all the[28] provinces;
     Yea, stranger engines for the brunt of war,
     Than was the fiery keel at Antwerp's bridge,[29]
     I'll make my servile spirits to invent.

          Enter VALDES and CORNELIUS.

     Come, German Valdes, and Cornelius,
     And make me blest with your sage conference.
     Valdes, sweet Valdes, and Cornelius,
     Know that your words have won me at the last
     To practice magic and concealed arts:
     Yet not your words only,[30] but mine own fantasy,
     That will receive no object; for my head
     But ruminates on necromantic skill.
     Philosophy is odious and obscure;
     Both law and physic are for petty wits;
     Divinity is basest of the three,
     Unpleasant, harsh, contemptible, and vile:[31]
     'Tis magic, magic, that hath ravish'd me.
     Then, gentle friends, aid me in this attempt;
     And I, that have with concise syllogisms[32]
     Gravell'd the pastors of the German church,
     And made the flowering pride of Wertenberg
     Swarm to my problems, as the infernal spirits
     On sweet Musaeus when he came to hell,
     Will be as cunning[33] as Agrippa[34] was,
     Whose shadow[35] made all Europe honour him.

     VALDES. Faustus, these books, thy wit, and our experience,
     Shall make all nations to canonize us.
     As Indian Moors obey their Spanish lords,
     So shall the spirits[36] of every element
     Be always serviceable to us three;
     Like lions shall they guard us when we please;
     Like Almain rutters[37] with their horsemen's staves,
     Or Lapland giants, trotting by our sides;
     Sometimes like women, or unwedded maids,
     Shadowing more beauty in their airy brows
     Than have the[38] white breasts of the queen of love:
     From[39] Venice shall they drag huge argosies,
     And from America the golden fleece
     That yearly stuffs old Philip's treasury;
     If learned Faustus will be resolute.

     FAUSTUS. Valdes, as resolute am I in this
     As thou to live:  therefore object it not.

     CORNELIUS. The miracles that magic will perform
     Will make thee vow to study nothing else.
     He that is grounded in astrology,
     Enrich'd with tongues, well seen in[40] minerals,
     Hath all the principles magic doth require:
     Then doubt not, Faustus, but to be renowm'd,[41]
     And more frequented for this mystery
     Than heretofore the Delphian oracle.
     The spirits tell me they can dry the sea,
     And fetch the treasure of all foreign wrecks,
     Ay, all the wealth that our forefathers hid
     Within the massy entrails of the earth:
     Then tell me, Faustus, what shall we three want?

     FAUSTUS. Nothing, Cornelius.  O, this cheers my soul!
     Come, shew me some demonstrations magical,
     That I may conjure in some lusty grove,
     And have these joys in full possession.

     VALDES. Then haste thee to some solitary grove,
     And bear wise Bacon's and Albertus'[42] works,
     The Hebrew Psalter, and New Testament;
     And whatsoever else is requisite
     We will inform thee ere our conference cease.

     CORNELIUS. Valdes, first let him know the words of art;
     And then, all other ceremonies learn'd,
     Faustus may try his cunning[43] by himself.

     VALDES. First I'll instruct thee in the rudiments,
     And then wilt thou be perfecter than I.

     FAUSTUS. Then come and dine with me, and, after meat,
     We'll canvass every quiddity thereof;
     For, ere I sleep, I'll try what I can do:
     This night I'll conjure, though I die therefore.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter two SCHOLARS.[44]

     FIRST SCHOLAR. I wonder what's become of Faustus, that was wont
     to make our schools ring with sic probo.

     SECOND SCHOLAR. That shall we know, for see, here comes his boy.

          Enter WAGNER.

     FIRST SCHOLAR. How now, sirrah! where's thy master?

     WAGNER. God in heaven knows.

     SECOND SCHOLAR. Why, dost not thou know?

     WAGNER. Yes, I know; but that follows not.

     FIRST SCHOLAR. Go to, sirrah! leave your jesting, and tell us
     where he is.

     WAGNER. That follows not necessary by force of argument, that you,
     being licentiates, should stand upon:[45]  therefore acknowledge
     your error, and be attentive.

     SECOND SCHOLAR. Why, didst thou not say thou knewest?

     WAGNER. Have you any witness on't?

     FIRST SCHOLAR. Yes, sirrah, I heard you.

     WAGNER. Ask my fellow if I be a thief.

     SECOND SCHOLAR. Well, you will not tell us?

     WAGNER. Yes, sir, I will tell you:  yet, if you were not dunces,
     you would never ask me such a question; for is not he corpus
     naturale? and is not that mobile? then wherefore should you
     ask me such a question?  But that I am by nature phlegmatic,
     slow to wrath, and prone to lechery (to love, I would say),
     it were not for you to come within forty foot of the place
     of execution, although I do not doubt to see you both hanged
     the next sessions.  Thus having triumphed over you, I will set
     my countenance like a precisian, and begin to speak thus:--
     Truly, my dear brethren, my master is within at dinner,
     with Valdes and Cornelius, as this wine, if it could speak,
     would[46] inform your worships:  and so, the Lord bless you,
     preserve you, and keep you, my dear brethren, my dear brethren![47]
          [Exit.]

     FIRST SCHOLAR. Nay, then, I fear he is fallen into that damned art
     for which they two are infamous through the world.

     SECOND SCHOLAR. Were he a stranger, and not allied to me, yet should
     I grieve for him. But, come, let us go and inform the Rector,
     and see if he by his grave counsel can reclaim him.

     FIRST SCHOLAR. O, but I fear me nothing can reclaim him!

     SECOND SCHOLAR. Yet let us try what we can do.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter FAUSTUS to conjure.[48]

     FAUSTUS. Now that the gloomy shadow of the earth,
     Longing to view Orion's drizzling look,
     Leaps from th' antartic world unto the sky,
     And dims the welkin with her pitchy breath,
     Faustus, begin thine incantations,
     And try if devils will obey thy hest,
     Seeing thou hast pray'd and sacrific'd to them.
     Within this circle is Jehovah's name,
     Forward and backward anagrammatiz'd,[49]
     Th' abbreviated[50] names of holy saints,
     Figures of every adjunct to the heavens,
     And characters of signs and erring[51] stars,
     By which the spirits are enforc'd to rise:
     Then fear not, Faustus, but be resolute,
     And try the uttermost magic can perform.--
     Sint mihi dei Acherontis propitii!  Valeat numen triplex Jehovoe!
     Ignei, aerii, aquatani spiritus, salvete!  Orientis princeps
     Belzebub, inferni ardentis monarcha, et Demogorgon, propitiamus
     vos, ut appareat et surgat Mephistophilis, quod tumeraris:[52]
     per Jehovam, Gehennam, et consecratam aquam quam nunc spargo,
     signumque crucis quod nunc facio, et per vota nostra, ipse nunc
     surgat nobis dicatus[53] Mephistophilis!

          Enter MEPHISTOPHILIS.

     I charge thee to return, and change thy shape;
     Thou art too ugly to attend on me:
     Go, and return an old Franciscan friar;
     That holy shape becomes a devil best.
          [Exit MEPHISTOPHILIS.]

     I see there's virtue in my heavenly words:
     Who would not be proficient in this art?
     How pliant is this Mephistophilis,
     Full of obedience and humility!
     Such is the force of magic and my spells:
     No, Faustus, thou art conjuror laureat,
     That canst command great Mephistophilis:
     Quin regis Mephistophilis fratris imagine.

          Re-enter MEPHISTOPHILIS like a Franciscan friar.[54]

     MEPHIST. Now, Faustus, what wouldst thou have me do?

     FAUSTUS. I charge thee wait upon me whilst I live,
     To do whatever Faustus shall command,
     Be it to make the moon drop from her sphere,
     Or the ocean to overwhelm the world.

     MEPHIST. I am a servant to great Lucifer,
     And may not follow thee without his leave:
     No more than he commands must we perform.

     FAUSTUS. Did not he charge thee to appear to me?

     MEPHIST. No, I came hither[55] of mine own accord.

     FAUSTUS. Did not my conjuring speeches raise thee? speak.

     MEPHIST. That was the cause, but yet per accidens;[56]
     For, when we hear one rack the name of God,
     Abjure the Scriptures and his Saviour Christ,
     We fly, in hope to get his glorious soul;
     Nor will we come, unless he use such means
     Whereby he is in danger to be damn'd.
     Therefore the shortest cut for conjuring
     Is stoutly to abjure the Trinity,
     And pray devoutly to the prince of hell.

     FAUSTUS. So Faustus hath
     Already done; and holds this principle,
     There is no chief but only Belzebub;
     To whom Faustus doth dedicate himself.
     This word "damnation" terrifies not him,
     For he confounds hell in Elysium:
     His ghost be with the old philosophers!
     But, leaving these vain trifles of men's souls,
     Tell me what is that Lucifer thy lord?

     MEPHIST. Arch-regent and commander of all spirits.

     FAUSTUS. Was not that Lucifer an angel once?

     MEPHIST. Yes, Faustus, and most dearly lov'd of God.

     FAUSTUS. How comes it, then, that he is prince of devils?

     MEPHIST. O, by aspiring pride and insolence;
     For which God threw him from the face of heaven.

     FAUSTUS. And what are you that live with Lucifer?

     MEPHIST. Unhappy spirits that fell with Lucifer,
     Conspir'd against our God with Lucifer,
     And are for ever damn'd with Lucifer.

     FAUSTUS. Where are you damn'd?

     MEPHIST. In hell.

     FAUSTUS. How comes it, then, that thou art out of hell?

     MEPHIST. Why, this is hell, nor am I out of it:[57]
     Think'st thou that I, who saw the face of God,
     And tasted the eternal joys of heaven,
     Am not tormented with ten thousand hells,
     In being depriv'd of everlasting bliss?
     O, Faustus, leave these frivolous demands,
     Which strike a terror to my fainting soul!

     FAUSTUS. What, is great Mephistophilis so passionate
     For being deprived of the joys of heaven?
     Learn thou of Faustus manly fortitude,
     And scorn those joys thou never shalt possess.
     Go bear these[58] tidings to great Lucifer:
     Seeing Faustus hath incurr'd eternal death
     By desperate thoughts against Jove's[59] deity,
     Say, he surrenders up to him his soul,
     So he will spare him four and twenty[60] years,
     Letting him live in all voluptuousness;
     Having thee ever to attend on me,
     To give me whatsoever I shall ask,
     To tell me whatsoever I demand,
     To slay mine enemies, and aid my friends,
     And always be obedient to my will.
     Go and return to mighty Lucifer,
     And meet me in my study at midnight,
     And then resolve[61] me of thy master's mind.

     MEPHIST. I will, Faustus.
          [Exit.]

     FAUSTUS. Had I as many souls as there be stars,
     I'd give them all for Mephistophilis.
     By him I'll be great emperor of the world,
     And make a bridge thorough[62] the moving air,
     To pass the ocean with a band of men;
     I'll join the hills that bind the Afric shore,
     And make that country[63] continent to Spain,
     And both contributory to my crown:
     The Emperor shall not live but by my leave,
     Nor any potentate of Germany.
     Now that I have obtain'd what I desir'd,[64]
     I'll live in speculation of this art,
     Till Mephistophilis return again.
          [Exit.]

          Enter WAGNER[65] and CLOWN.

     WAGNER. Sirrah boy, come hither.

     CLOWN. How, boy! swowns, boy!  I hope you have seen many boys
     with such pickadevaunts[66] as I have:  boy, quotha!

     WAGNER. Tell me, sirrah, hast thou any comings in?

     CLOWN. Ay, and goings out too; you may see else.

     WAGNER. Alas, poor slave! see how poverty jesteth in his nakedness!
     the villain is bare and out of service, and so hungry, that I know
     he would give his soul to the devil for a shoulder of mutton,
     though it were blood-raw.

     CLOWN. How! my soul to the devil for a shoulder of mutton, though
     'twere blood-raw! not so, good friend:  by'r lady,[67] I had need
     have it well roasted, and good sauce to it, if I pay so dear.

     WAGNER. Well, wilt thou serve me, and I'll make thee go like
     Qui mihi discipulus?[68]

     CLOWN. How, in verse?

     WAGNER. No, sirrah; in beaten silk and staves-acre.[69]

     CLOWN. How, how, knaves-acre! ay, I thought that was all the land
     his father left him.  Do you hear?  I would be sorry to rob you of
     your living.

     WAGNER. Sirrah, I say in staves-acre.

     CLOWN. Oho, oho, staves-acre! why, then, belike, if I were your
     man, I should be full of vermin.[70]

     WAGNER. So thou shalt, whether thou beest with me or no.  But,
     sirrah, leave your jesting, and bind yourself presently unto me
     for seven years, or I'll turn all the lice about thee into
     familiars,[71] and they shall tear thee in pieces.

     CLOWN. Do you hear, sir? you may save that labour; they are too
     familiar with me already:  swowns, they are as bold with my flesh
     as if they had paid for their[72] meat and drink.

     WAGNER. Well, do you hear, sirrah? hold, take these guilders.
          [Gives money.]

     CLOWN. Gridirons! what be they?

     WAGNER. Why, French crowns.

     CLOWN. Mass, but for the name of French crowns, a man were as good
     have as many English counters.  And what should I do with these?

     WAGNER. Why, now, sirrah, thou art at an hour's warning, whensoever
     or wheresoever the devil shall fetch thee.

     CLOWN. No, no; here, take your gridirons again.

     WAGNER. Truly, I'll none of them.

     CLOWN. Truly, but you shall.

     WAGNER. Bear witness I gave them him.

     CLOWN. Bear witness I give them you again.

     WAGNER. Well, I will cause two devils presently to fetch thee
     away.--Baliol and Belcher!

     CLOWN. Let your Baliol and your Belcher come here, and I'll
     knock them, they were never so knocked since they were devils:
     say I should kill one of them, what would folks say?  "Do ye see
     yonder tall fellow in the round slop?[73] he has killed the devil."
     So I should be called Kill-devil all the parish over.

          Enter two DEVILS; and the CLOWN runs up and down crying.

     WAGNER. Baliol and Belcher,--spirits, away!
          [Exeunt DEVILS.]

     CLOWN. What, are they gone? a vengeance on them! they have vile[74]
     long nails.  There was a he-devil and a she-devil:  I'll tell you
     how you shall know them; all he-devils has horns, and all
     she-devils has clifts and cloven feet.

     WAGNER. Well, sirrah, follow me.

     CLOWN. But, do you hear? if I should serve you, would you teach
     me to raise up Banios and Belcheos?

     WAGNER. I will teach thee to turn thyself to any thing, to a dog,
     or a cat, or a mouse, or a rat, or any thing.

     CLOWN. How! a Christian fellow to a dog, or a cat, a mouse,
     or a rat! no, no, sir; if you turn me into any thing, let it be
     in the likeness of a little pretty frisking flea, that I may be
     here and there and every where:  O, I'll tickle the pretty wenches'
     plackets!  I'll be amongst them, i'faith.

     WAGNER. Well, sirrah, come.

     CLOWN. But, do you hear, Wagner?

     WAGNER. How!--Baliol and Belcher!

     CLOWN. O Lord!  I pray, sir, let Banio and Belcher go sleep.

     WAGNER. Villain, call me Master Wagner, and let thy left eye be
     diametarily fixed upon my right heel, with quasi vestigiis
     nostris[75] insistere.
          [Exit.]

     CLOWN. God forgive me, he speaks Dutch fustian.  Well, I'll follow
     him; I'll serve him, that's flat.
          [Exit.]

          FAUSTUS discovered in his study.

     FAUSTUS. Now, Faustus, must
     Thou needs be damn'd, and canst thou not be sav'd:
     What boots it, then, to think of God or heaven?
     Away with such vain fancies, and despair;
     Despair in God, and trust in Belzebub:
     Now go not backward; no, Faustus, be resolute:
     Why waver'st thou?  O, something soundeth in mine ears,
     "Abjure this magic, turn to God again!"
     Ay, and Faustus will turn to God again.
     To God? he loves thee not;
     The god thou serv'st is thine own appetite,
     Wherein is fix'd the love of Belzebub:
     To him I'll build an altar and a church,
     And offer lukewarm blood of new-born babes.

          Enter GOOD ANGEL and EVIL ANGEL.

     GOOD ANGEL. Sweet Faustus, leave that execrable art.

     FAUSTUS. Contrition, prayer, repentance--what of them?

     GOOD ANGEL. O, they are means to bring thee unto heaven!

     EVIL ANGEL. Rather illusions, fruits of lunacy,
     That make men foolish that do trust them most.

     GOOD ANGEL. Sweet Faustus, think of heaven and heavenly things.

     EVIL ANGEL. No, Faustus; think of honour and of[76] wealth.
          [Exeunt ANGELS.]

     FAUSTUS. Of wealth!
     Why, the signiory of Embden shall be mine.
     When Mephistophilis shall stand by me,
     What god can hurt thee, Faustus? thou art safe
     Cast no more doubts.--Come, Mephistophilis,
     And bring glad tidings from great Lucifer;--
     Is't not midnight?--come, Mephistophilis,
     Veni, veni, Mephistophile!

          Enter MEPHISTOPHILIS.

     Now tell me[77] what says Lucifer, thy lord?

     MEPHIST. That I shall wait on Faustus whilst he lives,[78]
     So he will buy my service with his soul.

     FAUSTUS. Already Faustus hath hazarded that for thee.

     MEPHIST. But, Faustus, thou must bequeath it solemnly,
     And write a deed of gift with thine own blood;
     For that security craves great Lucifer.
     If thou deny it, I will back to hell.

     FAUSTUS. Stay, Mephistophilis, and tell me, what good will my soul
     do thy lord?

     MEPHIST. Enlarge his kingdom.

     FAUSTUS. Is that the reason why[79] he tempts us thus?

     MEPHIST. Solamen miseris socios habuisse doloris.[80]

     FAUSTUS. Why,[81] have you any pain that torture[82] others!

     MEPHIST. As great as have the human souls of men.
     But, tell me, Faustus, shall I have thy soul?
     And I will be thy slave, and wait on thee,
     And give thee more than thou hast wit to ask.

     FAUSTUS. Ay, Mephistophilis, I give it thee.

     MEPHIST. Then, Faustus,[83] stab thine arm courageously,
     And bind thy soul, that at some certain day
     Great Lucifer may claim it as his own;
     And then be thou as great as Lucifer.

     FAUSTUS. [Stabbing his arm] Lo, Mephistophilis, for love of thee,
     I cut mine arm, and with my proper blood
     Assure my soul to be great Lucifer's,
     Chief lord and regent of perpetual night!
     View here the blood that trickles from mine arm,
     And let it be propitious for my wish.

     MEPHIST. But, Faustus, thou must
     Write it in manner of a deed of gift.

     FAUSTUS. Ay, so I will [Writes].  But, Mephistophilis,
     My blood congeals, and I can write no more.

     MEPHIST. I'll fetch thee fire to dissolve it straight.
          [Exit.]

     FAUSTUS. What might the staying of my blood portend?
     Is it unwilling I should write this bill?[84]
     Why streams it not, that I may write afresh?
     FAUSTUS GIVES TO THEE HIS SOUL:  ah, there it stay'd!
     Why shouldst thou not? is not thy soul shine own?
     Then write again, FAUSTUS GIVES TO THEE HIS SOUL.

          Re-enter MEPHISTOPHILIS with a chafer of coals.

     MEPHIST. Here's fire; come, Faustus, set it on.[85]

     FAUSTUS. So, now the blood begins to clear again;
     Now will I make an end immediately.
          [Writes.]

     MEPHIST. O, what will not I do to obtain his soul?
          [Aside.]

     FAUSTUS. Consummatum est; this bill is ended,
     And Faustus hath bequeath'd his soul to Lucifer.
     But what is this inscription[86] on mine arm?
     Homo, fuge:  whither should I fly?
     If unto God, he'll throw me[87] down to hell.
     My senses are deceiv'd; here's nothing writ:--
     I see it plain; here in this place is writ,
     Homo, fuge:  yet shall not Faustus fly.

     MEPHIST. I'll fetch him somewhat to delight his mind.
          [Aside, and then exit.]

          Re-enter MEPHISTOPHILIS with DEVILS, who give crowns
          and rich apparel to FAUSTUS, dance, and then depart.

     FAUSTUS. Speak, Mephistophilis, what means this show?

     MEPHIST. Nothing, Faustus, but to delight thy mind withal,
     And to shew thee what magic can perform.

     FAUSTUS. But may I raise up spirits when I please?

     MEPHIST. Ay, Faustus, and do greater things than these.

     FAUSTUS. Then there's enough for a thousand souls.
     Here, Mephistophilis, receive this scroll,
     A deed of gift of body and of soul:
     But yet conditionally that thou perform
     All articles prescrib'd between us both.

     MEPHIST. Faustus, I swear by hell and Lucifer
     To effect all promises between us made!

     FAUSTUS. Then hear me read them.  [Reads] ON THESE CONDITIONS
     FOLLOWING.  FIRST, THAT FAUSTUS MAY BE A SPIRIT IN FORM AND
     SUBSTANCE.  SECONDLY, THAT MEPHISTOPHILIS SHALL BE HIS SERVANT,
     AND AT HIS COMMAND.  THIRDLY, THAT MEPHISTOPHILIS SHALL DO FOR HIM,
     AND BRING HIM WHATSOEVER HE DESIRES.[88]  FOURTHLY, THAT HE SHALL
     BE IN HIS CHAMBER OR HOUSE INVISIBLE.  LASTLY, THAT HE SHALL APPEAR
     TO THE SAID JOHN FAUSTUS, AT ALL TIMES, IN WHAT FORM OR SHAPE
     SOEVER HE PLEASE.  I, JOHN FAUSTUS, OF WERTENBERG, DOCTOR, BY
     THESE PRESENTS, DO GIVE BOTH BODY AND SOUL TO LUCIFER PRINCE OF
     THE EAST, AND HIS MINISTER MEPHISTOPHILIS; AND FURTHERMORE GRANT
     UNTO THEM, THAT,[89] TWENTY-FOUR YEARS BEING EXPIRED, THE ARTICLES
     ABOVE-WRITTEN INVIOLATE, FULL POWER TO FETCH OR CARRY THE SAID
     JOHN FAUSTUS, BODY AND SOUL, FLESH, BLOOD, OR GOODS, INTO THEIR
     HABITATION WHERESOEVER.  BY ME, JOHN FAUSTUS.

     MEPHIST. Speak, Faustus, do you deliver this as your deed?

     FAUSTUS. Ay, take it, and the devil give thee good on't!

     MEPHIST. Now, Faustus, ask what thou wilt.

     FAUSTUS. First will I question with thee about hell.
     Tell me, where is the place that men call hell?

     MEPHIST. Under the heavens.

     FAUSTUS. Ay, but whereabout?

     MEPHIST. Within the bowels of these[90] elements,
     Where we are tortur'd and remain for ever:
     Hell hath no limits, nor is circumscrib'd
     In one self place; for where we are is hell,
     And where hell is, there[91] must we ever be:
     And, to conclude, when all the world dissolves,
     And every creature shall be purified,
     All places shall be hell that are[92] not heaven.

     FAUSTUS. Come, I think hell's a fable.

     MEPHIST. Ay, think so still, till experience change thy mind.

     FAUSTUS. Why, think'st thou, then, that Faustus shall be damn'd?

     MEPHIST. Ay, of necessity, for here's the scroll
     Wherein thou hast given thy soul to Lucifer.

     FAUSTUS. Ay, and body too:  but what of that?
     Think'st thou that Faustus is so fond[93] to imagine
     That, after this life, there is any pain?
     Tush, these are trifles and mere old wives' tales.

     MEPHIST. But, Faustus, I am an instance to prove the contrary,
     For I am damn'd, and am now in hell.

     FAUSTUS. How! now in hell!
     Nay, an this be hell, I'll willingly be damn'd here:
     What! walking, disputing, &c.[94]
     But, leaving off this, let me have a wife,[95]
     The fairest maid in Germany;
     For I am wanton and lascivious,
     And cannot live without a wife.

     MEPHIST. How! a wife!
     I prithee, Faustus, talk not of a wife.

     FAUSTUS. Nay, sweet Mephistophilis, fetch me one, for I will have
     one.

     MEPHIST. Well, thou wilt have one?  Sit there till I come:  I'll
     fetch thee a wife in the devil's name.
          [Exit.]

          Re-enter MEPHISTOPHILIS with a DEVIL drest like a WOMAN,
          with fire-works.

     MEPHIST. Tell me,[96] Faustus, how dost thou like thy wife?

     FAUSTUS. A plague on her for a hot whore!

     MEPHIST. Tut, Faustus,
     Marriage is but a ceremonial toy;
     If thou lovest me, think no[97] more of it.
     I'll cull thee out the fairest courtezans,
     And bring them every morning to thy bed:
     She whom thine eye shall like, thy heart shall have,
     Be she as chaste as was Penelope,
     As wise as Saba,[98] or as beautiful
     As was bright Lucifer before his fall.
     Hold, take this book, peruse it thoroughly:
          [Gives book.]

     The iterating[99] of these lines brings gold;
     The framing of this circle on the ground
     Brings whirlwinds, tempests, thunder, and lightning;
     Pronounce this thrice devoutly to thyself,
     And men in armour shall appear to thee,
     Ready to execute what thou desir'st.

     FAUSTUS. Thanks, Mephistophilis:  yet fain would I have a book
     wherein I might behold all spells and incantations, that I
     might raise up spirits when I please.

     MEPHIST. Here they are in this book.
          [Turns to them.]

     FAUSTUS. Now would I have a book where I might see all characters
     and planets of the heavens, that I might know their motions and
     dispositions.

     MEPHIST. Here they are too.
          [Turns to them.]

     FAUSTUS. Nay, let me have one book more,--and then I have done,--
     wherein I might see all plants, herbs, and trees, that grow upon
     the earth.

     MEPHIST. Here they be.

     FAUSTUS. O, thou art deceived.

     MEPHIST. Tut, I warrant thee.
          [Turns to them.]

     FAUSTUS. When I behold the heavens, then I repent,
     And curse thee, wicked Mephistophilis,
     Because thou hast depriv'd me of those joys.

     MEPHIST. Why, Faustus,
     Thinkest thou heaven is such a glorious thing?
     I tell thee, 'tis not half so fair as thou,
     Or any man that breathes on earth.

     FAUSTUS. How prov'st thou that?

     MEPHIST. 'Twas made for man, therefore is man more excellent.

     FAUSTUS. If it were made for man, 'twas made for me:
     I will renounce this magic and repent.

          Enter GOOD ANGEL and EVIL ANGEL.

     GOOD ANGEL. Faustus, repent; yet God will pity thee.

     EVIL ANGEL. Thou art a spirit; God cannot pity thee.

     FAUSTUS. Who buzzeth in mine ears I am a spirit?
     Be I a devil, yet God may pity me;
     Ay, God will pity me, if I repent.

     EVIL ANGEL. Ay, but Faustus never shall repent.
          [Exeunt ANGELS.]

     FAUSTUS. My heart's so harden'd, I cannot repent:
     Scarce can I name salvation, faith, or heaven,
     But fearful echoes thunder in mine ears,
     "Faustus, thou art damn'd!" then swords, and knives,
     Poison, guns, halters, and envenom'd steel
     Are laid before me to despatch myself;
     And long ere this I should have slain myself,
     Had not sweet pleasure conquer'd deep despair.
     Have not I made blind Homer sing to me
     Of Alexander's love and Oenon's death?
     And hath not he, that built the walls of Thebes
     With ravishing sound of his melodious harp,
     Made music with my Mephistophilis?
     Why should I die, then, or basely despair?
     I am resolv'd; Faustus shall ne'er repent.--
     Come, Mephistophilis, let us dispute again,
     And argue of divine astrology.[100]
     Tell me, are there many heavens above the moon
     Are all celestial bodies but one globe,
     As is the substance of this centric earth?

     MEPHIST. As are the elements, such are the spheres,
     Mutually folded in each other's orb,
     And, Faustus,
     All jointly move upon one axletree,
     Whose terminine is term'd the world's wide pole;
     Nor are the names of Saturn, Mars, or Jupiter
     Feign'd, but are erring[101] stars.

     FAUSTUS. But, tell me, have they all one motion, both situ et
     tempore?

     MEPHIST. All jointly move from east to west in twenty-four hours
     upon the poles of the world; but differ in their motion upon
     the poles of the zodiac.

     FAUSTUS. Tush,
     These slender trifles Wagner can decide:
     Hath Mephistophilis no greater skill?
     Who knows not the double motion of the planets?
     The first is finish'd in a natural day;
     The second thus; as Saturn in thirty years; Jupiter in twelve;
     Mars in four; the Sun, Venus, and Mercury in a year; the Moon in
     twenty-eight days.  Tush, these are freshmen's[102] suppositions.
     But, tell me, hath every sphere a dominion or intelligentia?

     MEPHIST. Ay.

     FAUSTUS. How many heavens or spheres are there?

     MEPHIST. Nine; the seven planets, the firmament, and the empyreal
     heaven.

     FAUSTUS. Well, resolve[103] me in this question; why have we not
     conjunctions, oppositions, aspects, eclipses, all at one time,
     but in some years we have more, in some less?

     MEPHIST. Per inoequalem motum respectu totius.

     FAUSTUS. Well, I am answered.  Tell me who made the world?

     MEPHIST. I will not.

     FAUSTUS. Sweet Mephistophilis, tell me.

     MEPHIST. Move me not, for I will not tell thee.

     FAUSTUS. Villain, have I not bound thee to tell me any thing?

     MEPHIST. Ay, that is not against our kingdom; but this is.  Think
     thou on hell, Faustus, for thou art damned.

     FAUSTUS. Think, Faustus, upon God that made the world.

     MEPHIST. Remember this.
          [Exit.]

     FAUSTUS. Ay, go, accursed spirit, to ugly hell!
     'Tis thou hast damn'd distressed Faustus' soul.
     Is't not too late?

          Re-enter GOOD ANGEL and EVIL ANGEL.

     EVIL ANGEL. Too late.

     GOOD ANGEL. Never too late, if Faustus can repent.

     EVIL ANGEL. If thou repent, devils shall tear thee in pieces.

     GOOD ANGEL. Repent, and they shall never raze thy skin.
          [Exeunt ANGELS.]

     FAUSTUS. Ah, Christ, my Saviour,
     Seek to save[104] distressed Faustus' soul!

          Enter LUCIFER, BELZEBUB, and MEPHISTOPHILIS.

     LUCIFER. Christ cannot save thy soul, for he is just:
     There's none but I have interest in the same.

     FAUSTUS. O, who art thou that look'st so terrible?

     LUCIFER. I am Lucifer,
     And this is my companion-prince in hell.

     FAUSTUS. O, Faustus, they are come to fetch away thy soul!

     LUCIFER. We come to tell thee thou dost injure us;
     Thou talk'st of Christ, contrary to thy promise:
     Thou shouldst not think of God:  think of the devil,
     And of his dam too.

     FAUSTUS. Nor will I henceforth:  pardon me in this,
     And Faustus vows never to look to heaven,
     Never to name God, or to pray to him,
     To burn his Scriptures, slay his ministers,
     And make my spirits pull his churches down.

     LUCIFER. Do so, and we will highly gratify thee.  Faustus, we are
     come from hell to shew thee some pastime:  sit down, and thou
     shalt see all the Seven Deadly Sins appear in their proper shapes.

     FAUSTUS. That sight will be as pleasing unto me,
     As Paradise was to Adam, the first day
     Of his creation.

     LUCIFER. Talk not of Paradise nor creation; but mark this show:
     talk of the devil, and nothing else.--Come away!

          Enter the SEVEN DEADLY SINS.[105]

     Now, Faustus, examine them of their several names and dispositions.

     FAUSTUS. What art thou, the first?

     PRIDE. I am Pride.  I disdain to have any parents.  I am like to
     Ovid's flea; I can creep into every corner of a wench; sometimes,
     like a perriwig, I sit upon her brow; or, like a fan of feathers,
     I kiss her lips; indeed, I do--what do I not?  But, fie, what a
     scent is here!  I'll not speak another word, except the ground
     were perfumed, and covered with cloth of arras.

     FAUSTUS. What art thou, the second?

     COVETOUSNESS. I am Covetousness, begotten of an old churl, in an
     old leathern bag:  and, might I have my wish, I would desire that
     this house and all the people in it were turned to gold, that I
     might lock you up in my good chest:  O, my sweet gold!

     FAUSTUS. What art thou, the third?

     WRATH. I am Wrath.  I had neither father nor mother:  I leapt out
     of a lion's mouth when I was scarce half-an-hour old; and ever
     since I have run up and down the world with this case[106]
     of rapiers, wounding myself when I had nobody to fight withal.
     I was born in hell; and look to it, for some of you shall be
     my father.

     FAUSTUS. What art thou, the fourth?

     ENVY. I am Envy, begotten of a chimney-sweeper and an oyster-wife.
     I cannot read, and therefore wish all books were burnt.  I am lean
     with seeing others eat.  O, that there would come a famine through
     all the world, that all might die, and I live alone! then thou
     shouldst see how fat I would be.  But must thou sit, and I stand?
     come down, with a vengeance!

     FAUSTUS. Away, envious rascal!--What art thou, the fifth?

     GLUTTONY. Who I, sir?  I am Gluttony.  My parents are all dead,
     and the devil a penny they have left me, but a bare pension, and
     that is thirty meals a-day and ten bevers,[107]--a small trifle
     to suffice nature.  O, I come of a royal parentage! my grandfather
     was a Gammon of Bacon, my grandmother a Hogshead of Claret-wine;
     my godfathers were these, Peter Pickle-herring and Martin
     Martlemas-beef; O, but my godmother, she was a jolly gentlewoman,
     and well-beloved in every good town and city; her name was Mistress
     Margery March-beer.  Now, Faustus, thou hast heard all my progeny;
     wilt thou bid me to supper?

     FAUSTUS. No, I'll see thee hanged:  thou wilt eat up all my victuals.

     GLUTTONY. Then the devil choke thee!

     FAUSTUS. Choke thyself, glutton!--What art thou, the sixth?

     SLOTH. I am Sloth.  I was begotten on a sunny bank, where I have
     lain ever since; and you have done me great injury to bring me
     from thence:  let me be carried thither again by Gluttony and
     Lechery.  I'll not speak another word for a king's ransom.

     FAUSTUS. What are you, Mistress Minx, the seventh and last?

     LECHERY. Who I, sir?  I am one that loves an inch of raw mutton
     better than an ell of fried stock-fish; and the first letter
     of my name begins with L.[108]

     FAUSTUS. Away, to hell, to hell![109]
          [Exeunt the SINS.]

     LUCIFER. Now, Faustus, how dost thou like this?

     FAUSTUS. O, this feeds my soul!

     LUCIFER. Tut, Faustus, in hell is all manner of delight.

     FAUSTUS. O, might I see hell, and return again,
     How happy were I then!

     LUCIFER. Thou shalt; I will send for thee at midnight.[110]
     In meantime take this book; peruse it throughly,
     And thou shalt turn thyself into what shape thou wilt.

     FAUSTUS. Great thanks, mighty Lucifer!
     This will I keep as chary as my life.

     LUCIFER. Farewell, Faustus, and think on the devil.

     FAUSTUS. Farewell, great Lucifer.
          [Exeunt LUCIFER and BELZEBUB.]

     Come, Mephistophilis.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter CHORUS.[111]

     CHORUS. Learned Faustus,
     To know the secrets of astronomy[112]
     Graven in the book of Jove's high firmament,
     Did mount himself to scale Olympus' top,
     Being seated in a chariot burning bright,
     Drawn by the strength of yoky dragons' necks.
     He now is gone to prove cosmography,
     And, as I guess, will first arrive at Rome,
     To see the Pope and manner of his court,
     And take some part of holy Peter's feast,
     That to this day is highly solemniz'd.
          [Exit.]

          Enter FAUSTUS and MEPHISTOPHILIS.[113]

     FAUSTUS. Having now, my good Mephistophilis,
     Pass'd with delight the stately town of Trier,[114]
     Environ'd round with airy mountain-tops,
     With walls of flint, and deep-entrenched lakes,
     Not to be won by any conquering prince;
     From Paris next,[115] coasting the realm of France,
     We saw the river Maine fall into Rhine,
     Whose banks are set with groves of fruitful vines;
     Then up to Naples, rich Campania,
     Whose buildings fair and gorgeous to the eye,
     The streets straight forth, and pav'd with finest brick,
     Quarter the town in four equivalents:
     There saw we learned Maro's golden tomb,
     The way he cut,[116] an English mile in length,
     Thorough a rock of stone, in one night's space;
     From thence to Venice, Padua, and the rest,
     In one of which a sumptuous temple stands,[117]
     That threats the stars with her aspiring top.
     Thus hitherto hath Faustus spent his time:
     But tell me now what resting-place is this?
     Hast thou, as erst I did command,
     Conducted me within the walls of Rome?

     MEPHIST. Faustus, I have; and, because we will not be unprovided,
     I have taken up his Holiness' privy-chamber for our use.

     FAUSTUS. I hope his Holiness will bid us welcome.

     MEPHIST.
     Tut, 'tis no matter; man; we'll be bold with his good cheer.
     And now, my Faustus, that thou mayst perceive
     What Rome containeth to delight thee with,
     Know that this city stands upon seven hills
     That underprop the groundwork of the same:
     Just through the midst[118] runs flowing Tiber's stream
     With winding banks that cut it in two parts;
     Over the which four stately bridges lean,
     That make safe passage to each part of Rome:
     Upon the bridge call'd Ponte[119] Angelo
     Erected is a castle passing strong,
     Within whose walls such store of ordnance are,
     And double cannons fram'd of carved brass,
     As match the days within one complete year;
     Besides the gates, and high pyramides,
     Which Julius Caesar brought from Africa.

     FAUSTUS. Now, by the kingdoms of infernal rule,
     Of Styx, of[120] Acheron, and the fiery lake
     Of ever-burning Phlegethon, I swear
     That I do long to see the monuments
     And situation of bright-splendent Rome:
     Come, therefore, let's away.

     MEPHIST. Nay, Faustus, stay:  I know you'd fain see the Pope,
     And take some part of holy Peter's feast,
     Where thou shalt see a troop of bald-pate friars,
     Whose summum bonum is in belly-cheer.

     FAUSTUS. Well, I'm content to compass then some sport,
     And by their folly make us merriment.
     Then charm me, that I[121]
     May be invisible, to do what I please,
     Unseen of any whilst I stay in Rome.
          [Mephistophilis charms him.]

     MEPHIST. So, Faustus; now
     Do what thou wilt, thou shalt not be discern'd.

          Sound a Sonnet.[122] Enter the POPE and the CARDINAL OF
          LORRAIN to the banquet, with FRIARS attending.

     POPE. My Lord of Lorrain, will't please you draw near?

     FAUSTUS. Fall to, and the devil choke you, an you spare!

     POPE. How now! who's that which spake?--Friars, look about.

     FIRST FRIAR. Here's nobody, if it like your Holiness.

     POPE. My lord, here is a dainty dish was sent me from the Bishop
     of Milan.

     FAUSTUS. I thank you, sir.
          [Snatches the dish.]

     POPE. How now! who's that which snatched the meat from me? will
     no man look?--My lord, this dish was sent me from the Cardinal
     of Florence.

     FAUSTUS. You say true; I'll ha't.
          [Snatches the dish.]

     POPE. What, again!--My lord, I'll drink to your grace.

     FAUSTUS. I'll pledge your grace.
          [Snatches the cup.]

     C. OF LOR. My lord, it may be some ghost, newly crept out of
     Purgatory, come to beg a pardon of your Holiness.

     POPE. It may be so.--Friars, prepare a dirge to lay the fury
     of this ghost.--Once again, my lord, fall to.
          [The POPE crosses himself.]

     FAUSTUS. What, are you crossing of yourself?
     Well, use that trick no more, I would advise you.
          [The POPE crosses himself again.]

     Well, there's the second time.  Aware the third;
     I give you fair warning.
          [The POPE crosses himself again, and FAUSTUS hits him a box
           of the ear; and they all run away.]

     Come on, Mephistophilis; what shall we do?

     MEPHIST. Nay, I know not:  we shall be cursed with bell, book,
     and candle.

     FAUSTUS. How! bell, book, and candle,--candle, book, and bell,--
     Forward and backward, to curse Faustus to hell!
     Anon you shall hear a hog grunt, a calf bleat, and an ass bray,
     Because it is Saint Peter's holiday.

          Re-enter all the FRIARS to sing the Dirge.

     FIRST FRIAR.
     Come, brethren, let's about our business with good devotion.

          They sing.

     CURSED BE HE THAT STOLE AWAY HIS HOLINESS' MEAT FROM THE
     TABLE!  maledicat Dominus!
     CURSED BE HE THAT STRUCK HIS HOLINESS A BLOW ON THE FACE!
     maledicat Dominus!
     CURSED BE HE THAT TOOK FRIAR SANDELO A BLOW ON THE PATE!
     maledicat Dominus!
     CURSED BE HE THAT DISTURBETH OUR HOLY DIRGE!  maledicat
     Dominus!
     CURSED BE HE THAT TOOK AWAY HIS HOLINESS' WINE!  maledicat
     Dominus?  ['?' sic]
          Et omnes Sancti!  Amen!

          [MEPHISTOPHILIS and FAUSTUS beat the FRIARS, and fling
           fire-works among them; and so exeunt.]

          Enter CHORUS.

     CHORUS. When Faustus had with pleasure ta'en the view
     Of rarest things, and royal courts of kings,
     He stay'd his course, and so returned home;
     Where such as bear his absence but with grief,
     I mean his friends and near'st companions,
     Did gratulate his safety with kind words,
     And in their conference of what befell,
     Touching his journey through the world and air,
     They put forth questions of astrology,
     Which Faustus answer'd with such learned skill
     As they admir'd and wonder'd at his wit.
     Now is his fame spread forth in every land:
     Amongst the rest the Emperor is one,
     Carolus the Fifth, at whose palace now
     Faustus is feasted 'mongst his noblemen.
     What there he did, in trial of his art,
     I leave untold; your eyes shall see['t] perform'd.
          [Exit.]

          Enter ROBIN[123] the Ostler, with a book in his hand.

     ROBIN. O, this is admirable! here I ha' stolen one of Doctor
     Faustus' conjuring-books, and, i'faith, I mean to search some
     circles for my own use.  Now will I make all the maidens in our
     parish dance at my pleasure, stark naked, before me; and so
     by that means I shall see more than e'er I felt or saw yet.

          Enter RALPH, calling ROBIN.

     RALPH. Robin, prithee, come away; there's a gentleman tarries
     to have his horse, and he would have his things rubbed and made
     clean:  he keeps such a chafing with my mistress about it; and
     she has sent me to look thee out; prithee, come away.

     ROBIN. Keep out, keep out, or else you are blown up, you are
     dismembered, Ralph:  keep out, for I am about a roaring piece
     of work.

     RALPH. Come, what doest thou with that same book? thou canst
     not read?

     ROBIN. Yes, my master and mistress shall find that I can read,
     he for his forehead, she for her private study; she's born to
     bear with me, or else my art fails.

     RALPH. Why, Robin, what book is that?

     ROBIN. What book! why, the most intolerable book for conjuring
     that e'er was invented by any brimstone devil.

     RALPH. Canst thou conjure with it?

     ROBIN. I can do all these things easily with it; first, I can
     make thee drunk with ippocras[124] at any tabern[125] in Europe
     for nothing; that's one of my conjuring works.

     RALPH. Our Master Parson says that's nothing.

     ROBIN. True, Ralph:  and more, Ralph, if thou hast any mind to
     Nan Spit, our kitchen-maid, then turn her and wind her to thy own
     use, as often as thou wilt, and at midnight.

     RALPH. O, brave, Robin! shall I have Nan Spit, and to mine own
     use?  On that condition I'll feed thy devil with horse-bread as
     long as he lives, of free cost.

     ROBIN. No more, sweet Ralph:  let's go and make clean our boots,
     which lie foul upon our hands, and then to our conjuring in the
     devil's name.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter ROBIN and RALPH[126] with a silver goblet.

     ROBIN. Come, Ralph:  did not I tell thee, we were for ever made
     by this Doctor Faustus' book? ecce, signum! here's a simple
     purchase[127] for horse-keepers:  our horses shall eat no hay as
     long as this lasts.

     RALPH. But, Robin, here comes the Vintner.

     ROBIN. Hush!  I'll gull him supernaturally.

          Enter VINTNER.

     Drawer,[128] I hope all is paid; God be with you!--Come, Ralph.

     VINTNER. Soft, sir; a word with you.  I must yet have a goblet paid
     from you, ere you go.

     ROBIN. I a goblet, Ralph, I a goblet!--I scorn you; and you are
     but a, &c.  I a goblet! search me.

     VINTNER. I mean so, sir, with your favour.
          [Searches ROBIN.]

     ROBIN. How say you now?

     VINTNER. I must say somewhat to your fellow.--You, sir!

     RALPH. Me, sir! me, sir! search your fill.  [VINTNER searches him.]
     Now, sir, you may be ashamed to burden honest men with a matter
     of truth.

     VINTNER. Well, tone[129] of you hath this goblet about you.

     ROBIN. You lie, drawer, 'tis afore me [Aside].--Sirrah you, I'll
     teach you to impeach honest men;--stand by;--I'll scour you for
     a goblet;--stand aside you had best, I charge you in the name of
     Belzebub.--Look to the goblet, Ralph [Aside to RALPH].

     VINTNER. What mean you, sirrah?

     ROBIN. I'll tell you what I mean.  [Reads from a book] Sanctobulorum
     Periphrasticon--nay, I'll tickle you, Vintner.--Look to the goblet,
     Ralph [Aside to RALPH].--[Reads] Polypragmos Belseborams framanto
     pacostiphos tostu, Mephistophilis, &c.

          Enter MEPHISTOPHILIS, sets squibs at their backs, and then
          exit.  They run about.

     VINTNER. O, nomine Domini! what meanest thou, Robin? thou hast no
     goblet.

     RALPH. Peccatum peccatorum!--Here's thy goblet, good Vintner.
          [Gives the goblet to VINTNER, who exit.]

     ROBIN. Misericordia pro nobis! what shall I do?  Good devil, forgive
     me now, and I'll never rob thy library more.

          Re-enter MEPHISTOPHILIS.

     MEPHIST. Monarch of Hell,[130] under whose black survey
     Great potentates do kneel with awful fear,
     Upon whose altars thousand souls do lie,
     How am I vexed with these villains' charms?
     From Constantinople am I hither come,
     Only for pleasure of these damned slaves.

     ROBIN. How, from Constantinople! you have had a great journey:
     will you take sixpence in your purse to pay for your supper, and
     be gone?

     MEPHIST. Well, villains, for your presumption, I transform thee
     into an ape, and thee into a dog; and so be gone!
          [Exit.]

     ROBIN. How, into an ape! that's brave:  I'll have fine sport with
     the boys; I'll get nuts and apples enow.

     RALPH. And I must be a dog.

     ROBIN. I'faith, thy head will never be out of the pottage-pot.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter EMPEROR,[131] FAUSTUS, and a KNIGHT, with ATTENDANTS.

     EMPEROR. Master Doctor Faustus,[132] I have heard strange report
     of thy knowledge in the black art, how that none in my empire
     nor in the whole world can compare with thee for the rare effects
     of magic:  they say thou hast a familiar spirit, by whom thou canst
     accomplish what thou list.  This, therefore, is my request, that
     thou let me see some proof of thy skill, that mine eyes may be
     witnesses to confirm what mine ears have heard reported:  and here
     I swear to thee, by the honour of mine imperial crown, that,
     whatever thou doest, thou shalt be no ways prejudiced or endamaged.

     KNIGHT. I'faith, he looks much like a conjurer.
          [Aside.]

     FAUSTUS. My gracious sovereign, though I must confess myself far
     inferior to the report men have published, and nothing answerable
     to the honour of your imperial majesty, yet, for that love and duty
     binds me thereunto, I am content to do whatsoever your majesty
     shall command me.

     EMPEROR. Then, Doctor Faustus, mark what I shall say.
     As I was sometime solitary set
     Within my closet, sundry thoughts arose
     About the honour of mine ancestors,
     How they had won[133] by prowess such exploits,
     Got such riches, subdu'd so many kingdoms,
     As we that do succeed,[134] or they that shall
     Hereafter possess our throne, shall
     (I fear me) ne'er attain to that degree
     Of high renown and great authority:
     Amongst which kings is Alexander the Great,
     Chief spectacle of the world's pre-eminence,
     The bright[135] shining of whose glorious acts
     Lightens the world with his reflecting beams,
     As when I hear but motion made of him,
     It grieves my soul I never saw the man:
     If, therefore, thou, by cunning of thine art,
     Canst raise this man from hollow vaults below,
     Where lies entomb'd this famous conqueror,
     And bring with him his beauteous paramour,
     Both in their right shapes, gesture, and attire
     They us'd to wear during their time of life,
     Thou shalt both satisfy my just desire,
     And give me cause to praise thee whilst I live.

     FAUSTUS. My gracious lord, I am ready to accomplish your request,
     so far forth as by art and power of my spirit I am able to perform.

     KNIGHT. I'faith, that's just nothing at all.
          [Aside.]

     FAUSTUS. But, if it like your grace, it is not in my ability[136]
     to present before your eyes the true substantial bodies of those
     two deceased princes, which long since are consumed to dust.

     KNIGHT. Ay, marry, Master Doctor, now there's a sign of grace in
     you, when you will confess the truth.
          [Aside.]

     FAUSTUS. But such spirits as can lively resemble Alexander and
     his paramour shall appear before your grace, in that manner that
     they both[137] lived in, in their most flourishing estate; which
     I doubt not shall sufficiently content your imperial majesty.

     EMPEROR. Go to, Master Doctor; let me see them presently.

     KNIGHT. Do you hear, Master Doctor? you bring Alexander and his
     paramour before the Emperor!

     FAUSTUS. How then, sir?

     KNIGHT. I'faith, that's as true as Diana turned me to a stag.

     FAUSTUS. No, sir; but, when Actaeon died, he left the horns for
     you.--Mephistophilis, be gone.
          [Exit MEPHISTOPHILIS.]

     KNIGHT. Nay, an you go to conjuring, I'll be gone.
          [Exit.]

     FAUSTUS. I'll meet with you anon for interrupting me so.
     --Here they are, my gracious lord.

          Re-enter MEPHISTOPHILIS with SPIRITS in the shapes of ALEXANDER
          and his PARAMOUR.

     EMPEROR. Master Doctor, I heard this lady, while she lived, had a
     wart or mole in her neck:  how shall I know whether it be so or no?

     FAUSTUS. Your highness may boldly go and see.

     EMPEROR. Sure, these are no spirits, but the true substantial
     bodies of those two deceased princes.
          [Exeunt Spirits.]

     FAUSTUS. Wilt please your highness now to send for the knight
     that was so pleasant with me here of late?

     EMPEROR. One of you call him forth.
          [Exit ATTENDANT.]

          Re-enter the KNIGHT with a pair of horns on his head.

     How now, sir knight! why, I had thought thou hadst been a bachelor,
     but now I see thou hast a wife, that not only gives thee horns,
     but makes thee wear them.  Feel on thy head.

     KNIGHT. Thou damned wretch and execrable dog,
     Bred in the concave of some monstrous rock,
     How dar'st thou thus abuse a gentleman?
     Villain, I say, undo what thou hast done!

     FAUSTUS. O, not so fast, sir! there's no haste:  but, good, are
     you remembered how you crossed me in my conference with the
     Emperor?  I think I have met with you for it.

     EMPEROR. Good Master Doctor, at my entreaty release him:  he hath
     done penance sufficient.

     FAUSTUS. My gracious lord, not so much for the injury he offered
     me here in your presence, as to delight you with some mirth, hath
     Faustus worthily requited this injurious knight; which being all
     I desire, I am content to release him of his horns:--and,
     sir knight, hereafter speak well of scholars.--Mephistophilis,
     transform him straight.[138]  [MEPHISTOPHILIS removes the horns.]
     --Now, my good lord, having done my duty, I humbly take my leave.

     EMPEROR. Farewell, Master Doctor:  yet, ere you go,
     Expect from me a bounteous reward.
          [Exeunt EMPEROR, KNIGHT, and ATTENDANTS.]

     FAUSTUS. Now, Mephistophilis,[139] the restless course
     That time doth run with calm and silent foot,
     Shortening my days and thread of vital life,
     Calls for the payment of my latest years:
     Therefore, sweet Mephistophilis, let us
     Make haste to Wertenberg.

     MEPHIST. What, will you go on horse-back or on foot[?]

     FAUSTUS. Nay, till I'm past this fair and pleasant green,
     I'll walk on foot.

          Enter a HORSE-COURSER.[140]

     HORSE-COURSER. I have been all this day seeking one Master Fustian:
     mass, see where he is!--God save you, Master Doctor!

     FAUSTUS. What, horse-courser! you are well met.

     HORSE-COURSER. Do you hear, sir?  I have brought you forty dollars
     for your horse.

     FAUSTUS. I cannot sell him so:  if thou likest him for fifty, take
     him.

     HORSE-COURSER. Alas, sir, I have no more!--I pray you, speak for
     me.

     MEPHIST. I pray you, let him have him:  he is an honest fellow,
     and he has a great charge, neither wife nor child.

     FAUSTUS. Well, come, give me your money [HORSE-COURSER gives
     FAUSTUS the money]:  my boy will deliver him to you.  But I must
     tell you one thing before you have him; ride him not into the
     water, at any hand.

     HORSE-COURSER. Why, sir, will he not drink of all waters?

     FAUSTUS. O, yes, he will drink of all waters; but ride him not
     into the water:  ride him over hedge or ditch, or where thou wilt,
     but not into the water.

     HORSE-COURSER. Well, sir.--Now am I made man for ever:  I'll not
     leave my horse for forty:[141]  if he had but the quality of
     hey-ding-ding, hey-ding-ding, I'd make a brave living on him:
     he has a buttock as slick as an eel [Aside].--Well, God b'wi'ye,
     sir:  your boy will deliver him me:  but, hark you, sir; if my horse
     be sick or ill at ease, if I bring his water to you, you'll tell
     me what it is?

     FAUSTUS. Away, you villain! what, dost think I am a horse-doctor?
          [Exit HORSE-COURSER.]

     What art thou, Faustus, but a man condemn'd to die?
     Thy fatal time doth draw to final end;
     Despair doth drive distrust into[142] my thoughts:
     Confound these passions with a quiet sleep:
     Tush, Christ did call the thief upon the Cross;
     Then rest thee, Faustus, quiet in conceit.
          [Sleeps in his chair.]

          Re-enter HORSE-COURSER, all wet, crying.

     HORSE-COURSER. Alas, alas!  Doctor Fustian, quoth a? mass, Doctor
     Lopus[143] was never such a doctor:  has given me a purgation, has
     purged me of forty dollars; I shall never see them more.  But yet,
     like an ass as I was, I would not be ruled by him, for he bade me
     I should ride him into no water:  now I, thinking my horse had had
     some rare quality that he would not have had me know of,[144] I,
     like a venturous youth, rid him into the deep pond at the town's
     end.  I was no sooner in the middle of the pond, but my horse
     vanished away, and I sat upon a bottle of hay, never so near
     drowning in my life.  But I'll seek out my doctor, and have my
     forty dollars again, or I'll make it the dearest horse!--O,
     yonder is his snipper-snapper.--Do you hear? you, hey-pass,[145]
     where's your master?

     MEPHIST. Why, sir, what would you? you cannot speak with him.

     HORSE-COURSER. But I will speak with him.

     MEPHIST. Why, he's fast asleep:  come some other time.

     HORSE-COURSER. I'll speak with him now, or I'll break his
     glass-windows about his ears.

     MEPHIST. I tell thee, he has not slept this eight nights.

     HORSE-COURSER. An he have not slept this eight weeks, I'll
     speak with him.

     MEPHIST. See, where he is, fast asleep.

     HORSE-COURSER. Ay, this is he.--God save you, Master Doctor,
     Master Doctor, Master Doctor Fustian! forty dollars, forty dollars
     for a bottle of hay!

     MEPHIST. Why, thou seest he hears thee not.

     HORSE-COURSER. So-ho, ho! so-ho, ho!  [Hollows in his ear.]  No,
     will you not wake?  I'll make you wake ere I go.  [Pulls FAUSTUS
     by the leg, and pulls it away.]  Alas, I am undone! what shall
     I do?

     FAUSTUS. O, my leg, my leg!--Help, Mephistophilis! call the
     officers.--My leg, my leg!

     MEPHIST. Come, villain, to the constable.

     HORSE-COURSER. O Lord, sir, let me go, and I'll give you forty
     dollars more!

     MEPHIST. Where be they?

     HORSE-COURSER. I have none about me:  come to my ostry,[146]
     and I'll give them you.

     MEPHIST. Be gone quickly.
          [HORSE-COURSER runs away.]

     FAUSTUS. What, is he gone? farewell he!  Faustus has his leg again,
     and the Horse-courser, I take it, a bottle of hay for his labour:
     well, this trick shall cost him forty dollars more.

          Enter WAGNER.

     How now, Wagner! what's the news with thee?

     WAGNER. Sir, the Duke of Vanholt doth earnestly entreat your
     company.

     FAUSTUS. The Duke of Vanholt! an honourable gentleman, to whom
     I must be no niggard of my cunning.[147]--Come, Mephistophilis,
     let's away to him.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter the DUKE OF VANHOLT, the DUCHESS, and FAUSTUS.[148]

     DUKE. Believe me, Master Doctor, this merriment hath much pleased
     me.

     FAUSTUS. My gracious lord, I am glad it contents you so well.
     --But it may be, madam, you take no delight in this.  I have heard
     that great-bellied women do long for some dainties or other:  what
     is it, madam? tell me, and you shall have it.

     DUCHESS. Thanks, good Master Doctor:  and, for I see your courteous
     intent to pleasure me, I will not hide from you the thing my heart
     desires; and, were it now summer, as it is January and the dead
     time of the winter, I would desire no better meat than a dish
     of ripe grapes.

     FAUSTUS. Alas, madam, that's nothing!--Mephistophilis, be gone.
     [Exit MEPHISTOPHILIS.] Were it a greater thing than this, so it
     would content you, you should have it.

          Re-enter MEPHISTOPHILIS with grapes.

     Here they be, madam:  wilt please you taste on them?

     DUKE. Believe me, Master Doctor, this makes me wonder above the
     rest, that being in the dead time of winter and in the month of
     January, how you should come by these grapes.

     FAUSTUS. If it like your grace, the year is divided into two
     circles over the whole world, that, when it is here winter with
     us, in the contrary circle it is summer with them, as in India,
     Saba,[149] and farther countries in the east; and by means of a
     swift spirit that I have, I had them brought hither, as you see.
     --How do you like them, madam? be they good?

     DUCHESS. Believe me, Master Doctor, they be the best grapes that
     e'er I tasted in my life before.

     FAUSTUS. I am glad they content you so, madam.

     DUKE. Come, madam, let us in, where you must well reward this
     learned man for the great kindness he hath shewed to you.

     DUCHESS. And so I will, my lord; and, whilst I live, rest
     beholding[150] for this courtesy.

     FAUSTUS. I humbly thank your grace.

     DUKE. Come, Master Doctor, follow us, and receive your reward.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter WAGNER.[151]

     WAGNER. I think my master means to die shortly,
     For he hath given to me all his goods:[152]
     And yet, methinks, if that death were near,
     He would not banquet, and carouse, and swill
     Amongst the students, as even now he doth,
     Who are at supper with such belly-cheer
     As Wagner ne'er beheld in all his life.
     See, where they come! belike the feast is ended.
          [Exit.]

          Enter FAUSTUS with two or three SCHOLARS, and MEPHISTOPHILIS.

     FIRST SCHOLAR. Master Doctor Faustus, since our conference about
     fair ladies, which was the beautifulest in all the world, we have
     determined with ourselves that Helen of Greece was the admirablest
     lady that ever lived:  therefore, Master Doctor, if you will do us
     that favour, as to let us see that peerless dame of Greece, whom
     all the world admires for majesty, we should think ourselves much
     beholding unto you.

     FAUSTUS. Gentlemen,
     For that I know your friendship is unfeign'd,
     And Faustus' custom is not to deny
     The just requests of those that wish him well,
     You shall behold that peerless dame of Greece,
     No otherways for pomp and majesty
     Than when Sir Paris cross'd the seas with her,
     And brought the spoils to rich Dardania.
     Be silent, then, for danger is in words.
          [Music sounds, and HELEN passeth over the stage.[153]]

     SECOND SCHOLAR. Too simple is my wit to tell her praise,
     Whom all the world admires for majesty.

     THIRD SCHOLAR. No marvel though the angry Greeks pursu'd
     With ten years' war the rape of such a queen,
     Whose heavenly beauty passeth all compare.

     FIRST SCHOLAR. Since we have seen the pride of Nature's works,
     And only paragon of excellence,
     Let us depart; and for this glorious deed
     Happy and blest be Faustus evermore!

     FAUSTUS. Gentlemen, farewell:  the same I wish to you.
          [Exeunt SCHOLARS.]

          Enter an OLD MAN.[154]

     OLD MAN. Ah, Doctor Faustus, that I might prevail
     To guide thy steps unto the way of life,
     By which sweet path thou mayst attain the goal
     That shall conduct thee to celestial rest!
     Break heart, drop blood, and mingle it with tears,
     Tears falling from repentant heaviness
     Of thy most vile[155] and loathsome filthiness,
     The stench whereof corrupts the inward soul
     With such flagitious crimes of heinous sin[156]
     As no commiseration may expel,
     But mercy, Faustus, of thy Saviour sweet,
     Whose blood alone must wash away thy guilt.

     FAUSTUS. Where art thou, Faustus? wretch, what hast thou done?
     Damn'd art thou, Faustus, damn'd; despair and die!
     Hell calls for right, and with a roaring voice
     Says, "Faustus, come; thine hour is almost[157] come;"
     And Faustus now[158] will come to do thee right.
          [MEPHISTOPHILIS gives him a dagger.]

     OLD MAN. Ah, stay, good Faustus, stay thy desperate steps!
     I see an angel hovers o'er thy head,
     And, with a vial full of precious grace,
     Offers to pour the same into thy soul:
     Then call for mercy, and avoid despair.

     FAUSTUS. Ah, my sweet friend, I feel
     Thy words to comfort my distressed soul!
     Leave me a while to ponder on my sins.

     OLD MAN. I go, sweet Faustus; but with heavy cheer,
     Fearing the ruin of thy hopeless soul.
          [Exit.]

     FAUSTUS. Accursed Faustus, where is mercy now?
     I do repent; and yet I do despair:
     Hell strives with grace for conquest in my breast:
     What shall I do to shun the snares of death?

     MEPHIST. Thou traitor, Faustus, I arrest thy soul
     For disobedience to my sovereign lord:
     Revolt, or I'll in piece-meal tear thy flesh.

     FAUSTUS. Sweet Mephistophilis, entreat thy lord
     To pardon my unjust presumption,
     And with my blood again I will confirm
     My former vow I made to Lucifer.

     MEPHIST. Do it, then, quickly,[159] with unfeigned heart,
     Lest greater danger do attend thy drift.

     FAUSTUS. Torment, sweet friend, that base and crooked age,
     That durst dissuade me from thy Lucifer,
     With greatest torments that our hell affords.

     MEPHIST. His faith is great; I cannot touch his soul;
     But what I may afflict his body with
     I will attempt, which is but little worth.

     FAUSTUS. One thing, good servant,[160] let me crave of thee,
     To glut the longing of my heart's desire,--
     That I might have unto my paramour
     That heavenly Helen which I saw of late,
     Whose sweet embracings may extinguish clean
     Those[161] thoughts that do dissuade me from my vow,
     And keep mine oath I made to Lucifer.

     MEPHIST. Faustus, this,[162] or what else thou shalt desire,
     Shall be perform'd in twinkling of an eye.

          Re-enter HELEN.

     FAUSTUS. Was this the face that launch'd a thousand ships,
     And burnt the topless[163] towers of Ilium--
     Sweet Helen, make me immortal with a kiss.--
          [Kisses her.]
     Her lips suck forth my soul:  see, where it flies!--
     Come, Helen, come, give me my soul again.
     Here will I dwell, for heaven is[164] in these lips,
     And all is dross that is not Helena.
     I will be Paris, and for love of thee,
     Instead of Troy, shall Wertenberg be sack'd;
     And I will combat with weak Menelaus,
     And wear thy colours on my plumed crest;
     Yea, I will wound Achilles in the heel,
     And then return to Helen for a kiss.
     O, thou art fairer than the evening air
     Clad in the beauty of a thousand stars;
     Brighter art thou than flaming Jupiter
     When he appear'd to hapless Semele;
     More lovely than the monarch of the sky
     In wanton Arethusa's azur'd arms;
     And none but thou shalt[165] be my paramour!
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter the OLD MAN.[166]

     OLD MAN. Accursed Faustus, miserable man,
     That from thy soul exclud'st the grace of heaven,
     And fly'st the throne of his tribunal-seat!

          Enter DEVILS.

     Satan begins to sift me with his pride:
     As in this furnace God shall try my faith,
     My faith, vile hell, shall triumph over thee.
     Ambitious fiends, see how the heavens smile
     At your repulse, and laugh your state to scorn!
     Hence, hell! for hence I fly unto my God.
          [Exeunt,--on one side, DEVILS, on the other, OLD MAN.]

          Enter FAUSTUS,[167] with SCHOLARS.

     FAUSTUS. Ah, gentlemen!

     FIRST SCHOLAR. What ails Faustus?

     FAUSTUS. Ah, my sweet chamber-fellow, had I lived with thee,
     then had I lived still! but now I die eternally.  Look, comes
     he not? comes he not?

     SECOND SCHOLAR. What means Faustus?

     THIRD SCHOLAR. Belike he is grown into some sickness by being
     over-solitary.

     FIRST SCHOLAR. If it be so, we'll have physicians to cure him.
     --'Tis but a surfeit; never fear, man.

     FAUSTUS. A surfeit of deadly sin, that hath damned both body
     and soul.

     SECOND SCHOLAR. Yet, Faustus, look up to heaven; remember God's
     mercies are infinite.

     FAUSTUS. But Faustus' offence can ne'er be pardoned:  the serpent
     that tempted Eve may be saved, but not Faustus.  Ah, gentlemen,
     hear me with patience, and tremble not at my speeches!  Though
     my heart pants and quivers to remember that I have been a student
     here these thirty years, O, would I had never seen Wertenberg,
     never read book! and what wonders I have done, all Germany can
     witness, yea, all the world; for which Faustus hath lost both
     Germany and the world, yea, heaven itself, heaven, the seat of
     God, the throne of the blessed, the kingdom of joy; and must
     remain in hell for ever, hell, ah, hell, for ever!  Sweet friends,
     what shall become of Faustus, being in hell for ever?

     THIRD SCHOLAR. Yet, Faustus, call on God.

     FAUSTUS. On God, whom Faustus hath abjured! on God, whom Faustus
     hath blasphemed!  Ah, my God, I would weep! but the devil draws in
     my tears.  Gush forth blood, instead of tears! yea, life and soul!
     O, he stays my tongue!  I would lift up my hands; but see, they
     hold them, they hold them!

     ALL. Who, Faustus?

     FAUSTUS. Lucifer and Mephistophilis.  Ah, gentlemen, I gave them
     my soul for my cunning![168]

     ALL. God forbid!

     FAUSTUS. God forbade it, indeed; but Faustus hath done it:  for
     vain pleasure of twenty-four years hath Faustus lost eternal joy
     and felicity.  I writ them a bill with mine own blood:  the date
     is expired; the time will come, and he will fetch me.

     FIRST SCHOLAR. Why did not Faustus tell us of this before,[169]
     that divines might have prayed for thee?

     FAUSTUS. Oft have I thought to have done so; but the devil
     threatened to tear me in pieces, if I named God, to fetch both
     body and soul, if I once gave ear to divinity:  and now 'tis too
     late.  Gentlemen, away, lest you perish with me.

     SECOND SCHOLAR. O, what shall we do to save[170] Faustus?

     FAUSTUS. Talk not of me, but save yourselves, and depart.

     THIRD SCHOLAR. God will strengthen me; I will stay with Faustus.

     FIRST SCHOLAR. Tempt not God, sweet friend; but let us into the
     next room, and there pray for him.

     FAUSTUS. Ay, pray for me, pray for me; and what noise soever
     ye hear,[171] come not unto me, for nothing can rescue me.

     SECOND SCHOLAR. Pray thou, and we will pray that God may have
     mercy upon thee.

     FAUSTUS. Gentlemen, farewell:  if I live till morning, I'll visit
     you; if not, Faustus is gone to hell.

     ALL. Faustus, farewell.
          [Exeunt SCHOLARS.--The clock strikes eleven.]

     FAUSTUS. Ah, Faustus,
     Now hast thou but one bare hour to live,
     And then thou must be damn'd perpetually!
     Stand still, you ever-moving spheres of heaven,
     That time may cease, and midnight never come;
     Fair Nature's eye, rise, rise again, and make
     Perpetual day; or let this hour be but
     A year, a month, a week, a natural day,
     That Faustus may repent and save his soul!
     O lente,[172] lente currite, noctis equi!
     The stars move still, time runs, the clock will strike,
     The devil will come, and Faustus must be damn'd.
     O, I'll leap up to my God!--Who pulls me down?--
     See, see, where Christ's blood streams in the firmament!
     One drop would save my soul, half a drop:  ah, my Christ!--
     Ah, rend not my heart for naming of my Christ!
     Yet will I call on him:  O, spare me, Lucifer!--
     Where is it now? 'tis gone:  and see, where God
     Stretcheth out his arm, and bends his ireful brows!
     Mountains and hills, come, come, and fall on me,
     And hide me from the heavy wrath of God!
     No, no!
     Then will I headlong run into the earth:
     Earth, gape!  O, no, it will not harbour me!
     You stars that reign'd at my nativity,
     Whose influence hath allotted death and hell,
     Now draw up Faustus, like a foggy mist.
     Into the entrails of yon labouring cloud[s],
     That, when you[173] vomit forth into the air,
     My limbs may issue from your smoky mouths,
     So that my soul may but ascend to heaven!
          [The clock strikes the half-hour.]
     Ah, half the hour is past! 'twill all be past anon
     O God,
     If thou wilt not have mercy on my soul,
     Yet for Christ's sake, whose blood hath ransom'd me,
     Impose some end to my incessant pain;
     Let Faustus live in hell a thousand years,
     A hundred thousand, and at last be sav'd!
     O, no end is limited to damned souls!
     Why wert thou not a creature wanting soul?
     Or why is this immortal that thou hast?
     Ah, Pythagoras' metempsychosis, were that true,
     This soul should fly from me, and I be chang'd
     Unto some brutish beast![174] all beasts are happy,
     For, when they die,
     Their souls are soon dissolv'd in elements;
     But mine must live still to be plagu'd in hell.
     Curs'd be the parents that engender'd me!
     No, Faustus, curse thyself, curse Lucifer
     That hath depriv'd thee of the joys of heaven.
          [The clock strikes twelve.]
     O, it strikes, it strikes!  Now, body, turn to air,
     Or Lucifer will bear thee quick to hell!
          [Thunder and lightning.]
     O soul, be chang'd into little water-drops,
     And fall into the ocean, ne'er be found!

          Enter DEVILS.

     My God, my god, look not so fierce on me!
     Adders and serpents, let me breathe a while!
     Ugly hell, gape not! come not, Lucifer!
     I'll burn my books!--Ah, Mephistophilis!
          [Exeunt DEVILS with FAUSTUS.]  [175]

          Enter CHORUS.

     CHORUS. Cut is the branch that might have grown full straight,
     And burned is Apollo's laurel-bough,
     That sometime grew within this learned man.
     Faustus is gone:  regard his hellish fall,
     Whose fiendful fortune may exhort the wise,
     Only to wonder at unlawful things,
     Whose deepness doth entice such forward wits
     To practice more than heavenly power permits.
          [Exit.]

     Terminat hora diem; terminat auctor opus.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: mate-- i.e. confound, defeat.]

[Footnote 2: vaunt-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "daunt."]

[Footnote 3: her-- All the 4tos "his."]

[Footnote 4: Whereas-- i.e. where.]

[Footnote 5: cunning-- i.e. knowledge.]

[Footnote 6: So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "more."]

[Footnote 7: FAUSTUS discovered in his study-- Most probably, the Chorus,
before going out, drew a curtain, and discovered Faustus sitting.
In B. Barnes's DIVILS CHARTER, 1607, we find; "SCEN. VLTIMA.
ALEXANDER VNBRACED BETWIXT TWO CARDINALLS in his study LOOKING
VPON A BOOKE, whilst a groome draweth the Curtaine."  Sig. L 3.]

[Footnote 8: Analytics, 'tis thou, &c.-- Qy. "Analytic"? (but such
phraseology was not uncommon).]

[Footnote 9: So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "the" (the printer
having mistaken "yt" for "ye").]

[Footnote 10: So the later 4tos (with various spelling).--2to 1604
"Oncaymaeon."]

[Footnote 11: and-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 12: Couldst-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "Wouldst."]

[Footnote 13: men-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "man."]

[Footnote 14: legatur-- All the 4tos "legatus."]

[Footnote 15: &c.-- So two of the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 16: law-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "Church."]

[Footnote 17: This-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "His."]

[Footnote 18: Too servile-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "The deuill."]

[Footnote 19: Che sera, sera-- Lest it should be thought that I am wrong
in not altering the old spelling here, I may quote from Panizzi's
very critical edition of the ORLANDO FURIOSO,
     "La satisfazion ci SERA pronta."  C. xviii. st. 67.]

[Footnote 20: scenes-- "And sooner may a gulling weather-spie
              By drawing forth heavens SCEANES tell certainly," &c.
                   Donne's FIRST SATYRE,--p. 327, ed. 1633.]

[Footnote 21: tire-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "trie."]

[Footnote 22: Enter WAGNER, &c.-- Perhaps the proper arrangement is,]
     "Wagner!
      Enter WAGNER.
      Commend me to my dearest friends," &c.]

[Footnote 23: treasure-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "treasury."]

[Footnote 24: Jove-- So again, p. 84, first col.,[See Note 59]
:
     "Seeing Faustus hath incurr'd eternal death
      By desperate thoughts against JOVE'S deity," &c.:
and I may notice that Marlowe is not singular in applying the name
JOVE to the God of Christians:]
     "Beneath our standard of JOUES powerfull sonne [i.e. Christ--".
          MIR. FOR MAGISTRATES, p. 642, ed. 1610.
     "But see the judgement of almightie JOUE," &c.
          Id. p. 696.
     "O sommo GIOVE per noi crocifisso," &c.
          Pulci,--MORGANTE MAG. C. ii. st. 1.]

[Footnote 25: these elements-- So again, "Within the bowels of THESE
elements," &c., p. 87, first col,[See Note 90----"THESE" being
equivalent to THE.  (Not unfrequently in our old writers THESE
is little more than redundant.)]

[Footnote 26: resolve-- i.e. satisfy, inform.]

[Footnote 27: silk-- All the 4tos "skill" (and so the modern editors!).]

[Footnote 28: the-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "our."]

[Footnote 29: the fiery keel at Antwerp's bridge-- During the blockade
of Antwerp by the Prince of Parma in 1585, "They of Antuerpe
knowing that the bridge and the Stocadoes were finished,
made a great shippe, to be a meanes to breake all this worke
of the prince of Parmaes:  this great shippe was made of masons
worke within, in the manner of a vaulted caue:  vpon the hatches
there were layed myll-stones, graue-stones, and others of great
weight; and within the vault were many barrels of powder, ouer
the which there were holes, and in them they had put matches,
hanging at a thred, the which burning vntill they came vnto
the thred, would fall into the powder, and so blow vp all.
And for that they could not haue any one in this shippe to
conduct it, Lanckhaer, a sea captaine of the Hollanders, being
then in Antuerpe, gaue them counsell to tye a great beame at the
end of it, to make it to keepe a straight course in the middest
of the streame.  In this sort floated this shippe the fourth of
Aprill, vntill that it came vnto the bridge; where (within a
while after) the powder wrought his effect, with such violence,
as the vessell, and all that was within it, and vpon it, flew in
pieces, carrying away a part of the Stocado and of the bridge.
The marquesse of Roubay Vicont of Gant, Gaspar of Robles lord of
Billy, and the Seignior of Torchies, brother vnto the Seignior
of Bours, with many others, were presently slaine; which were
torne in pieces, and dispersed abroad, both vpon the land and vpon
the water."  Grimeston's GENERALL HISTORIE OF THE NETHERLANDS,
p. 875, ed. 1609.]

[Footnote 30: only-- Qy. "alone"?  (This line is not in the later 4tos.)]

[Footnote 31: vile-- Old ed. "vild":  but see note ||, p. 68.--(This line
is not in the later 4tos.)

    [Note || from page 68 (The Second Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):]

     Vile-- The 8vo "Vild"; the 4to "Wild" (Both eds. a little
     before, have "VILE monster, born of some infernal hag", and,
     a few lines after, "To VILE and ignominious servitude":--the
     fact is, our early writers (or rather transcribers), with
     their usual inconsistency of spelling, give now the one form,
     and now the other:  compare the folio SHAKESPEARE, 1623,
     where we sometimes find "vild" and sometimes "VILE.")--]

[Footnote 32: concise syllogisms-- Old ed. "Consissylogismes."]

[Footnote 33: cunning-- i.e. knowing, skilful.]

[Footnote 34: Agrippa-- i.e. Cornelius Agrippa.]

[Footnote 35: shadow-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "shadowes."]

[Footnote 36: spirits-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "subiects."]

[Footnote 37: Almain rutters-- See note †, p. 43.]

    [Note † from p. 43. (The Second Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

     Almains, Rutters-- Rutters are properly--German troopers
     (reiter, reuter).  In the third speech after the present one
     this line is repeated VERBATIM:  but in the first scene of
     our author's FAUSTUS we have,
         "Like ALMAIN RUTTERS with their horsemen's staves."--]

[Footnote 38: have the-- So two of the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "in their."]

[Footnote 39: From-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "For."]

[Footnote 40: in-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 41: renowm'd-- See note ||, p. 11.]

    [Note || from p. 11. (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

     renowmed-- i.e. renowned.--So the 8vo.--The 4to "renowned."
     --The form "RENOWMED" (Fr. RENOMME) occurs repeatedly
     afterwards in this play, according to the 8vo.  It is
     occasionally found in writers posterior to Marlowe's
     time.  e.g.
       "Of Constantines great towne RENOUM'D in vaine."
            Verses to King James, prefixed to Lord Stirling's
            MONARCHICKE TRAGEDIES, ed. 1607.--]

[Footnote 42: Albertus'-- i.e. Albertus Magnus.--The correction of I. M.
in Gent. Mag. for Jan. 1841.--All the 4tos "Albanus."]

[Footnote 43: cunning-- i.e. skill.]

[Footnote 44: Enter two SCHOLARS-- Scene, perhaps, supposed to be before
Faustus's house, as Wagner presently says, "My master is within
at dinner."]

[Footnote 45: upon-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "vpon't."]

[Footnote 46: speak, would-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "speake, IT would."]

[Footnote 47: my dear brethren-- This repetition (not found in the later 4tos)
is perhaps an error of the original compositor.]

[Footnote 48: Enter FAUSTUS to conjure-- The scene is supposed to be a grove;
see p. 81, last line of sec. col.
   [Page 81, second column, last line:
    "VALDES. Then haste thee to some solitary grove,"--]

[Footnote 49: anagrammatiz'd-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "and
Agramithist."]

[Footnote 50: Th' abbreviated-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "The breuiated."]

[Footnote 51: erring-- i.e. wandering.]

[Footnote 52: surgat Mephistophilis, quod tumeraris-- The later 4tos have
"surgat Mephistophilis DRAGON, quod tumeraris."--There is a
corruption here, which seems to defy emendation.  For "quod
TUMERARIS," Mr. J. Crossley, of Manchester, would read (rejecting
the word "Dragon") "quod TU MANDARES" (the construction being
"quod tu mandares ut Mephistophilis appareat et surgat"):  but the
"tu" does not agree with the preceding "vos."--The Revd. J. Mitford
proposes "surgat Mephistophilis, per Dragon (or Dagon) quod NUMEN
EST AERIS."]

[Footnote 53: dicatus-- So two of the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "dicatis."]

[Footnote 54: Re-enter Mephistophilis, &c.-- According to THE HISTORY OF
DR. FAUSTUS, on which this play is founded, Faustus raises
Mephistophilis in "a thicke wood neere to Wittenberg, called
in the German tongue Spisser Wolt.....  Presently, not three
fathom above his head, fell a flame in manner of a lightning,
and changed itselfe into a globe.....  Suddenly the globe opened,
and sprung up in the height of a man; so burning a time, in the
end it converted to the shape of a fiery man[?-- This pleasant
beast ran about the circle a great while, and, lastly, appeared
in the manner of a Gray Fryer, asking Faustus what was his
request?" Sigs. A 2, A 3, ed. 1648.  Again; "After Doctor Faustus
had made his promise to the devill, in the morning betimes he
called the spirit before him, and commanded him that he should
alwayes come to him like a fryer after the order of Saint Francis,
with a bell in his hand like Saint Anthony, and to ring it once
or twice before he appeared, that he might know of his certaine
coming."  Id. Sig. A 4.]

[Footnote 55: came hither-- So two of the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "came
NOW hither."]

[Footnote 56: accidens-- So two of the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "accident."]

[Footnote 57: Why, this is hell, nor am I out of it-- Compare Milton,
Par. Lost, iv. 75;
    "Which way I fly is hell; myself am hell."]

[Footnote 58: these-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "those."]

[Footnote 59: Jove's-- See note ‡, p. 80. [i.e. Note 24]
: ]

[Footnote 60: four and twenty-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "24."]

[Footnote 61: resolve-- i.e. satisfy, inform.]

[Footnote 62: thorough-- So one of the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "through."]

[Footnote 63: country-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "land."]

[Footnote 64: desir'd-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "desire."]

[Footnote 65: Enter WAGNER, &c.-- Scene, a street most probably.]

[Footnote 66: pickadevaunts-- i.e. beards cut to a point.]

[Footnote 67: by'r lady-- i.e. by our Lady.]

[Footnote 68: Qui mihi discipulus-- The first words of W. Lily's
AD DISCIPULOS CARMEN DE MORIBUS,

    "Qui mihi discipulus, puer, es, cupis atque doceri,
          Huc ades," &c.]

[Footnote 69: staves-acre-- A species of larkspur.]

[Footnote 70: vermin-- Which the seeds of staves-acre were used to destroy.]

[Footnote 71: familiars-- i.e. attendant-demons.]

[Footnote 72: their-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "my."]

[Footnote 73: slop-- i.e. wide breeches.]

[Footnote 74: vile-- Old ed. "vild."  See note || p. 68.

    [Note || from page 68 (The Second Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

     Vile-- The 8vo "Vild"; the 4to "Wild" (Both eds. a little
     before, have "VILE monster, born of some infernal hag", and,
     a few lines after, "To VILE and ignominious servitude":--the
     fact is, our early writers (or rather transcribers), with
     their usual inconsistency of spelling, give now the one form,
     and now the other:  compare the folio SHAKESPEARE, 1623,
     where we sometimes find "vild" and sometimes "VILE.")]

[Footnote 75: vestigiis nostris-- All the 4tos "vestigias nostras."]

[Footnote 76: of-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 77: me-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 78: he lives-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "I liue."]

[Footnote 79: why-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 80: Solamen miseris, &c.-- An often-cited line of modern Latin
poetry:  by whom it was written I know not.]

[Footnote 81: Why-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 82: torture-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "tortures."]

[Footnote 83: Faustus-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 84: Bill-- i.e. writing, deed.]

[Footnote 85: Here's fire; come, Faustus, set it on-- This would not
be intelligible without the assistance of THE HISTORY OF
DR. FAUSTUS, the sixth chapter of which is headed,--"How Doctor
Faustus set his blood in a saucer on warme ashes, and writ as
followeth."  Sig. B, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 86: But what is this inscription, &c.-- "He [Faustus-- tooke
a small penknife and prickt a veine in his left hand; and for
certainty thereupon were seen on his hand these words written,
as if they had been written with blood, O HOMO, FUGE."
THE HISTORY OF DR. FAUSTUS, Sig. B, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 87: me-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "thee."]

[Footnote 88: he desires-- Not in any of the four 4tos.  In the tract
just cited, the "3d Article" stands thus,--"That Mephostophiles
should bring him any thing, and doe for him whatsoever."  Sig. A 4,
ed. 1648.  A later ed. adds "he desired."  Marlowe, no doubt,
followed some edition of the HISTORY in which these words,
or something equivalent to them, had been omitted by mistake.
(2to 1661, which I consider as of no authority, has "he
requireth.")]

[Footnote 89: that, &c.-- So all the 4tos, ungrammatically.]

[Footnote 90: these-- See note §, p. 80.[i.e. Note 25]
: ]

[Footnote 91: there-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 92: are-- So two of the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "is."]

[Footnote 93: fond-- i.e. foolish.]

[Footnote 94: What! walking, disputing, &c.-- The later 4tos have "What,
SLEEPING, EATING, walking, AND disputing!" But it is evident
that this speech is not given correctly in any of the old eds.]

[Footnote 95: let me have a wife, &c.-- The ninth chapter of THE HISTORY
OF DR. FAUSTUS narrates "How Doctor Faustus would have married,
and how the Devill had almost killed him for it," and concludes
as follows.  "It is no jesting [said Mephistophilis-- with us:
hold thou that which thou hast vowed, and we will peforme as we
have promised; and more shall that, thou shalt have thy hearts
desire of what woman soever thou wilt, be she alive or dead,
and so long as thou wilt thou shalt keep her by thee.--These
words pleased Faustus wonderfull well, and repented himself that
he was so foolish to wish himselfe married, that might have any
woman in the whole city brought him at his command; the which
he practised and persevered in a long time."  Sig. B 3, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 96: me-- Not in 4to 1604.  (This line is wanting in the later 4tos.)]

[Footnote 97: no-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 98: Saba-- i.e. Sabaea--the Queen of Sheba.]

[Footnote 99: iterating-- i.e. reciting, repeating.]

[Footnote 100: And argue of divine astrology, &c.-- In THE HISTORY OF
DR. FAUSTUS, there are several tedious pages on the subject;
but our dramatist, in the dialogue which follows, has no
particular obligations to them.]

[Footnote 101: erring-- i.e. wandering.]

[Footnote 102: freshmen's-- "A Freshman, tiro, novitius." Coles's DICT.
Properly, a student during his first term at the university.]

[Footnote 103: resolve-- i.e. satisfy, inform.]

[Footnote 104: Seek to save-- Qy. "Seek THOU to save"?  But see note ||,
p. 18.]

    [Note ||, from page 18 (The First Part of Tamburlaine The
     Great):

     Barbarous-- Qy. "O Barbarous"? in the next line but one,
     "O treacherous"? and in the last line of the speech,
     "O bloody"?  But we occasionally find in our early dramatists
     lines which are defective in the first syllable; and in some
     of these instances at least it would almost seem that nothing
     has been omitted by the transcriber or printer.--]

[Footnote 105: Enter the SEVEN DEADLY SINS-- In THE HISTORY OF DR. FAUSTUS,
Lucifer amuses Faustus, not by calling up the Seven Deadly Sins,
but by making various devils appear before him, "one after another,
in forme as they were in hell."  "First entered Beliall in forme
of a beare," &c.--"after him came Beelzebub, in curled haire of
a horseflesh colour," &c.--"then came Astaroth, in the forme of
a worme," &c. &c.  During this exhibition, "Lucifer himselfe sate
in manner of a man all hairy, but of browne colour, like a
squirrell, curled, and his tayle turning upward on his backe as
the squirrels use:  I think he could crack nuts too like a
squirrell."  Sig. D, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 106: case-- i.e. couple.]

[Footnote 107: bevers-- i.e. refreshments between meals.]

[Footnote 108: L.-- All the 4tos "Lechery."--Here I have made the alteration
recommended by Mr. Collier in his Preface to COLERIDGE'S SEVEN
LECTURES ON SHAKESPEARE AND MILTON, p. cviii.]

[Footnote 109: Away, to hell, to hell-- In 4to 1604, these words stand
on a line by themselves, without a prefix.  (In the later 4tos,
the corresponding passage is as follows;
    "------ begins with Lechery.

     LUCIFER. Away to hell, away!  On, piper!  [Exeunt the SINS.
     FAUSTUS. O, how this sight doth delight my soul!" &c.)]

[Footnote 110: I will send for thee at midnight-- In THE HISTORY OF DR.
FAUSTUS, we have a particular account of Faustus's visit
to the infernal regions, Sig. D 2, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 111: Enter CHORUS-- Old ed. "Enter WAGNER solus."  That these
lines belong to the Chorus would be evident enough, even if we
had no assistance here from the later 4tos.--The parts of Wagner
and of the Chorus were most probably played by the same actor:
and hence the error.]

[Footnote 112: Learned Faustus,
      To know the secrets of astronomy, &c.-- See the 21st chapter
of THE HISTORY OF DR. FAUSTUS,--"How Doctor Faustus was carried
through the ayre up to the heavens, to see the whole world,
and how the sky and planets ruled," &c.]

[Footnote 113: Enter FAUSTUS and MEPHISTOPHILIS-- Scene, the Pope's
privy-chamber.]

[Footnote 114: Trier-- i.e. Treves or Triers.]

[Footnote 115: From Paris next, &c.-- This description is from THE HISTORY
OF DR. FAUSTUS; "He came from Paris to Mentz, where the river
of Maine falls into the Rhine:  notwithstanding he tarried not
long there, but went into Campania, in the kingdome of Neapol,
in which he saw an innumerable sort of cloysters, nunries, and
churches, and great houses of stone, the streets faire and large,
and straight forth from one end of the towne to the other as a
line; and all the pavement of the city was of bricke, and the
more it rained into the towne, the fairer the streets were:
there saw he the tombe of Virgill, and the highway that he cu[t]
through the mighty hill of stone in one night, the whole length
of an English mile," &c. Sig. E 2, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 116: The way he cut, &c.-- During the middle ages Virgil was
regarded as a great magician, and much was written concerning
his exploits in that capacity.  The LYFE OF VIRGILIUS, however,
(see Thoms's EARLY PROSE ROMANCES, vol. ii.,) makes no mention
of the feat in question.  But Petrarch speaks of it as follows.
"Non longe a Puteolis Falernus collis attollitur, famoso palmite
nobilis.  Inter Falernum et mare mons est saxeus, hominum manibus
confossus, quod vulgus insulsum a Virgilio magicis cantaminibus
factum putant:  ita clarorum fama hominum, non veris contenta
laudibus, saepe etiam fabulis viam facit.  De quo cum me olim
Robertus regno clarus, sed praeclarus ingenio ac literis, quid
sentirem, multis astantibus, percunctatus esset, humanitate fretus
regia, qua non reges modo sed homines vicit, jocans nusquam me
legisse magicarium fuisse Virgilium respondi:  quod ille severissimae
nutu frontis approbans, non illic magici sed ferri vestigia
confessus est.  Sunt autem fauces excavati montis angustae sed
longissimae atque atrae:  tenebrosa inter horrifica semper nox:
publicum iter in medio, mirum et religioni proximum, belli quoque
immolatum temporibus, sic vero populi vox est, et nullis unquam
latrociniis attentatum, patet:  Criptam Neapolitanam dicunt, cujus
et in epistolis ad Lucilium Seneca mentionem fecit.  Sub finem fusci
tramitis, ubi primo videri coelum incipit, in aggere edito, ipsius
Virgilii busta visuntur, pervetusti operis, unde haec forsan ab
illo perforati montis fluxit opinio."  ITINERARIUM SYRIACUM,--OPP.
p. 560, ed. Bas.]

[Footnote 117: From thence to Venice, Padua, and the rest,
      In one of which a sumptuous temple stands, &c.-- So the
later 4tos.--2to 1604 "In MIDST of which," &c.--THE HISTORY
OF DR. FAUSTUS shews WHAT "sumptuous temple" is meant:  "From
thence he came to Venice....He wondred not a little at the
fairenesse of S. Marks Place, and the sumptuous church standing
thereon, called S. Marke, how all the pavement was set with
coloured stones, and all the rood or loft of the church double
gilded over."  Sig. E 2, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 118: Just through the midst, &c.-- This and the next line are
not in 4to 1604.  I have inserted them from the later 4tos, as
being absolutely necessary for the sense.]

[Footnote 119: Ponte-- All the 4tos "Ponto."]

[Footnote 120: of-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 121: Then charm me, that I, &c.-- A corrupted passage.--Compare
THE HISTORY OF DR. FAUSTUS, Sig. E 3, ed. 1648; where, however,
the Cardinal, whom the Pope entertains, is called the Cardinal
of PAVIA.]

[Footnote 122: Sonnet-- Variously written, SENNET, SIGNET, SIGNATE, &c.--A
particular set of notes on the trumpet, or cornet, different from
a flourish.  See Nares's GLOSS. in V. SENNET.]

[Footnote 123: Enter ROBIN, &c.-- Scene, near an inn.]

[Footnote 124: ippocras-- Or HIPPOCRAS,--a medicated drink composed of wine
(usually red) with spices and sugar.  It is generally supposed to
have been so called from HIPPOCRATES (contracted by our earliest
writers to HIPPOCRAS); perhaps because it was strained,--the woollen
bag used by apothecaries to strain syrups and decoctions for
clarification being termed HIPPOCRATES' SLEEVE.]

[Footnote 125: tabern-- i.e. tavern.]

[Footnote 126:      [Exeunt.
      Enter ROBIN and RALPH, &c.-- A scene is evidently wanting
after the Exeunt of Robin and Ralph.]

[Footnote 127: purchase-- i.e. booty--gain, acquisition.]

[Footnote 128: Drawer-- There is an inconsistency here:  the Vintner
cannot properly be addressed as "Drawer."  The later 4tos are
also inconsistent in the corresponding passage:  Dick says, "THE
VINTNER'S BOY follows us at the hard heels," and immediately
the "VINTNER" enters.]

[Footnote 129: tone-- i.e. the one.]

[Footnote 130: MEPHIST-- Monarch of hell, &c.-- Old ed. thus:--]

    "MEPHIST. Vanish vilaines, th' one like an Ape, an other like
     a Beare, the third an Asse, for doing this enterprise.

     Monarch of hell, vnder whose blacke suruey," &c.

What follows, shews that the words which I have omitted ought
to have no place in the text; nor is there any thing equivalent
to them in the corresponding passage of the play as given in
the later 4tos.]

[Footnote 131: Enter EMPEROR, &c.-- Scene--An apartment in the Emperor's
Palace.  According to THE HISTORY OF DR. FAUSTUS, the Emperor
"was personally, with the rest of the nobles and gentlemen, at
the towne of Inzbrack, where he kept his court."  Sig. G, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 132: Master Doctor Faustus, &c-- The greater part of this scene
is closely borrowed from the history just cited:  e.g. "Faustus,
I have heard much of thee, that thou art excellent in the black art,
and none like thee in mine empire; for men say that thou hast a
familiar spirit with thee, and that thou canst doe what thou list;
it is therefore (said the Emperor) my request of thee, that thou
let me see a proofe of thy experience:  and I vow unto thee, by
the honour of my emperiall crowne, none evill shall happen unto
thee for so doing," &c.  Ibid.]

[Footnote 133: won-- May be right:  but qy. "done"?]

[Footnote 134: As we that do succeed, &c.-- A corrupted passage (not found
in the later 4tos).]

[Footnote 135: The bright, &c.-- See note ||, p. 18.]

    [Note ||, from page 18 (The First Part of Tamburlaine The
     Great):

     Barbarous-- Qy. "O Barbarous"? in the next line but one,
     "O treacherous"? and in the last line of the speech,
     "O bloody"?  But we occasionally find in our early dramatists
     lines which are defective in the first syllable; and in
     some of these instances at least it would almost seem that
     nothing has been omitted by the transcriber or printer.--]

[Footnote 136: But, if it like your grace, it is not in my ability, &c.]
"D. Faustus answered, My most excellent lord, I am ready to
accomplish your request in all things, so farre forth as I and
my spirit are able to performe:  yet your majesty shall know that
their dead bodies are not able substantially to be brought before
you; but such spirits as have seene Alexander and his Paramour
alive shall appeare unto you, in manner and form as they both
lived in their most flourishing time; and herewith I hope to
please your Imperiall Majesty.  Then Faustus went a little aside
to speake to his spirit; but he returned againe presently, saying,
Now, if it please your Majesty, you shall see them; yet, upon this
condition, that you demand no question of them, nor speake unto
them; which the Emperor agreed unto.  Wherewith Doctor Faustus opened
the privy-chamber doore, where presently entered the great and mighty
emperor Alexander Magnus, in all things to looke upon as if he
had beene alive; in proportion, a strong set thicke man, of a
middle stature, blacke haire, and that both thicke and curled,
head and beard, red cheekes, and a broad face, with eyes like
a basiliske; he had a compleat harnesse (i.e. suit of armour)
burnished and graven, exceeding rich to look upon:  and so,
passing towards the Emperor Carolus, he made low and reverend
courtesie:  whereat the Emperour Carolus would have stood up to
receive and greet him with the like reverence; but Faustus tooke
hold on him, and would not permit him to doe it.  Shortly after,
Alexander made humble reverence, and went out againe; and comming
to the doore, his paramour met him.  She comming in made the Emperour
likewise reverence:  she was cloathed in blew velvet, wrought and
imbroidered with pearls and gold; she was also excellent faire,
like milke and blood mixed, tall and slender, with a face round
as an apple.  And thus passed [she-- certaine times up and downe
the house; which the Emperor marking, said to himselfe, Now have
I seene two persons which my heart hath long wished to behold;
and sure it cannot otherwise be (said he to himselfe) but that
the spirits have changed themselves into these formes, and have
but deceived me, calling to minde the woman that raised the prophet
Samuel:  and for that the Emperor would be the more satisfied in
the matter, he said, I have often heard that behind, in her neck,
she had a great wart or wen; wherefore he tooke Faustus by the
hand without any words, and went to see if it were also to be
seene on her or not; but she, perceiving that he came to her,
bowed downe her neck, when he saw a great wart; and hereupon she
vanished, leaving the Emperor and the rest well contented."
THE HISTORY OF DR. FAUSTUS, Sig. G, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 137: both-- Old ed. "best."]

[Footnote 138: Mephistophilis, transform him straight-- According to THE
HISTORY OF DR. FAUSTUS, the knight was not present during Faustus's
"conference" with the Emperor; nor did he offer the doctor any
insult by doubting his skill in magic.  We are there told that
Faustus happening to see the knight asleep, "leaning out of a
window of the great hall," fixed a huge pair of hart's horns on
his head; "and, as the knight awaked, thinking to pull in his head,
he hit his hornes against the glasse, that the panes thereof flew
about his eares:  thinke here how this good gentleman was vexed,
for he could neither get backward nor forward."  After the emperor
and the courtiers, to their great amusement, had beheld the poor
knight in this condition, Faustus removed the horns.  When Faustus,
having taken leave of the emperor, was a league and a half from
the city, he was attacked in a wood by the knight and some of his
companions:  they were in armour, and mounted on fair palfreys;
but the doctor quickly overcame them by turning all the bushes
into horsemen, and "so charmed them, that every one, knight and
other, for the space of a whole moneth, did weare a paire of
goates hornes on their browes, and every palfry a paire of oxe
hornes on his head; and this was their penance appointed by
Faustus."  A second attempt of the knight to revenge himself on
Faustus proved equally unsuccessful.  Sigs. G 2, I 3, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 139: FAUSTUS. Now Mephistophilis, &c.-- Here the scene is supposed
to be changed to the "fair and pleasant green" which Faustus
presently mentions.]

[Footnote 140: Horse-courser-- i.e. Horse-dealer.--We are now to suppose the
scene to be near the home of Faustus, and presently that it is the
interior of his house, for he falls asleep in his chair.--"How
Doctor Faustus deceived a Horse-courser" is related in a short
chapter (the 34th) of THE HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS:  "After this
manner he served a horse-courser at a faire called Pheiffering," &c.]

[Footnote 141: for forty-- Qy. "for TWICE forty DOLLARS"?]

[Footnote 142: into-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "vnto."]

[Footnote 143: Doctor Lopus-- i.e. Doctor Lopez, domestic physician
to Queen Elizabeth, who was put to death for having received
a bribe from the court of Spain to destroy her.  He is frequently
mentioned in our early dramas:  see my note on Middleton's WORKS,
iv. 384.]

[Footnote 144: know of-- The old ed. has "KNOWNE of"; which perhaps is right,
meaning--acquainted with.]

[Footnote 145: hey-pass-- Equivalent to--juggler.]

[Footnote 146: ostry-- i.e. inn,--lodging.]

[Footnote 147: cunning-- i.e. skill.]

[Footnote 148:      [Exeunt.
      Enter the DUKE OF VANHOLT, the DUCHESS, and FAUSTUS-- Old ed.;

           "Exeunt.
      Enter to them the DUKE, the DUTCHESS, the DUKE speakes."

In the later 4tos a scene intervenes between the "Exeunt" of
Faustus, Mephistophilis, and Wagner, and the entrance of the Duke
of Vanholt, &c.--We are to suppose that Faustus is now at the court
of the Duke of Vanholt:  this is plain, not only from the later 4tos,
--in which Wagner tells Faustus that the Duke "hath sent some of
his men to attend him, with provision fit for his journey,"--but
from THE HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS, the subjoined portion of which
is closely followed in the present scene.  "Chap. xxxix. HOW DOCTOR
FAUSTUS PLAYED A MERRY JEST WITH THE DUKE OF ANHOLT IN HIS COURT.
Doctor Faustus on a time went to the Duke of Anholt, who welcommed
him very courteously; this was the moneth of January; where sitting
at the table, he perceived the dutchess to be with child; and
forbearing himselfe untill the meat was taken from the table,
and that they brought in the banqueting dishes [i.e. the dessert--,
Doctor Faustus said to the dutchesse, Gratious lady, I have alwayes
heard that great-bellied women doe alwayes long for some dainties;
I beseech therefore your grace, hide not your minde from me, but
tell me what you desire to eat.  She answered him, Doctor Faustus,
now truly I will not hide from you what my heart doth most desire;
namely, that, if it were now harvest, I would eat my bellyfull of
grapes and other dainty fruit.  Doctor Faustus answered hereupon,
Gracious lady, this is a small thing for me to doe, for I can doe
more than this.  Wherefore he tooke a plate, and set open one of
the casements of the window, holding it forth; where incontinent
he had his dish full of all manner of fruit, as red and white
grapes, peares, and apples, the which came from out of strange
countries:  all these he presented the dutchesse, saying, Madam,
I pray you vouchsafe to taste of this dainty fruit, the which
came from a farre countrey, for there the summer is not yet ended.
The dutchesse thanked Faustus highly, and she fell to her fruit
with full appetite.  The Duke of Anholt notwithstanding could not
withhold to ask Faustus with what reason there were such young
fruit to be had at that time of the yeare.  Doctor Faustus told
him, May it please your grace to understand that the year is
divided into two circles of the whole world, that when with us it
is winter, in the contrary circle it is notwithstanding summer;
for in India and Saba there falleth or setteth the sunne, so that
it is so warm that they have twice a yeare fruit; and, gracious
lord, I have a swift spirit, the which can in the twinkling of
an eye fulfill my desire in any thing; wherefore I sent him into
those countries, who hath brought this fruit as you see:  whereat
the duke was in great admiration."]

[Footnote 149: Saba-- i.e. Sabaea.]

[Footnote 150: beholding-- i.e. beholden.]

[Footnote 151: Enter WAGNER-- Scene, a room in the house of Faustus.]

[Footnote 152: he hath given to me all his goods-- Compare chap. lvi. of
THE HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS,--"How Doctor Faustus made his will,
in which he named his servant Wagner to be his heire."]

[Footnote 153: HELEN passeth over the stage-- In THE HISTORY OF DOCTOR
FAUSTUS we have the following description of Helen.  "This lady
appeared before them in a most rich gowne of purple velvet, costly
imbrodered; her haire hanged downe loose, as faire as the beaten
gold, and of such length that it reached downe to her hammes;
having most amorous cole-black eyes, a sweet and pleasant round
face, with lips as red as a cherry; her cheekes of a rose colour,
her mouth small, her neck white like a swan; tall and slender of
personage; in summe, there was no imperfect place in her:  she
looked round about with a rolling hawkes eye, a smiling and
wanton countenance, which neere-hand inflamed the hearts of all
the students; but that they perswaded themselves she was a spirit,
which made them lightly passe away such fancies."  Sig. H 4, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 154: Enter an OLD MAN-- See chap. xlviii of THE HISTORY OF DOCTOR
FAUSTUS,--"How an old man, the neighbour of Faustus, sought to
perswade him to amend his evil life and to fall into repentance,"
--according to which history, the Old Man's exhortation is delivered
at his own house, whither he had invited Faustus to supper.]

[Footnote 155: vild-- Old ed. "vild."  See note ||, p. 68.

    [Note || from page 68 (The Second Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

     Vile-- The 8vo "Vild"; the 4to "Wild" (Both eds. a little
     before, have "VILE monster, born of some infernal hag", and,
     a few lines after, "To VILE and ignominious servitude":--the
     fact is, our early writers (or rather transcribers), with
     their usual inconsistency of spelling, give now the one form,
     and now the other:  compare the folio SHAKESPEARE, 1623,
     where we sometimes find "vild" and sometimes "VILE.")--]

[Footnote 156: sin-- Old ed. "sinnes" (This is not in the later 4tos).]

[Footnote 157: almost-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 158: now-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 159: MEPHIST. Do it, then, quickly, &c.-- After this speech,
most probably, there ought to be a stage-direction, "FAUSTUS
STABS HIS ARM, AND WRITES ON A PAPER WITH HIS BLOOD.  Compare
THE HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS, chap. xlix,--"How Doctor Faustus
wrote the second time with his owne blood, and gave it to the
Devill."]

[Footnote 160: One thing, good servant, &c.-- "To the end that this miserable
Faustus might fill the lust of his flesh and live in all manner
of voluptuous pleasure, it came in his mind, after he had slept
his first sleepe, and in the 23 year past of his time, that he
had a great desire to lye with faire Helena of Greece, especially
her whom he had seen and shewed unto the students at Wittenberg:
wherefore he called unto his spirit Mephostophiles, commanding him
to bring to him the faire Helena; which he also did.  Whereupon he
fell in love with her, and made her his common concubine and
bed-fellow; for she was so beautifull and delightfull a peece,
that he could not be one houre from her, if he should therefore
have suffered death, she had so stoln away his heart:  and, to
his seeming, in time she was with childe, whom Faustus named
Justus Faustus.  The childe told Doctor Faustus many things which
were don in forraign countrys; but in the end, when Faustus lost
his life, the mother and the childe vanished away both together."
THE HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS, Sig. I 4, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 161: Those-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "These."]

[Footnote 162: Faustus, this-- Qy. "This, Faustus"?]

[Footnote 163: topless-- i.e. not exceeded in height by any.]

[Footnote 164: is-- So the later 4tos.--2to 1604 "be."]

[Footnote 165: shalt-- So all the 4tos; and so I believe Marlowe wrote,
though the grammar requires "shall."]

[Footnote 166: Enter the OLD MAN-- Scene, a room in the Old Man's house.
--In THE HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS the Old Man makes himself very
merry with the attempts of the evil powers to hurt him.  "About
two dayes after that he had exhorted Faustus, as the poore man
lay in his bed, suddenly there was a mighty rumbling in the
chamber, the which he was never wont to heare, and he heard as
it had beene the groaning of a sow, which lasted long:  whereupon
the good old man began to jest and mocke, and said, Oh, what a
barbarian cry is this?  Oh faire bird, what foul musicke is this?
A[h--, faire angell, that could not tarry two dayes in his place!
beginnest thou now to runne into a poore mans house, where thou
hast no power, and wert not able to keepe thy owne two dayes?
With these and such like words the spirit departed," &c.
Sig. I 2, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 167: Enter Faustus, &c.-- Scene, a room in the house of Faustus.]

[Footnote 168: cunning-- i.e. knowledge, skill.]

[Footnote 169: Why did not Faustus tell us of this before, &c.-- "Wherefore
one of them said unto him, Ah, friend Faustus, what have you done
to conceale this matter so long from us?  We would, by the helpe
of good divines and the grace of God, have brought you out of this
net, and have torne you out of the bondage and chaines of Satan;
whereas now we feare it is too late, to the utter ruine both of
your body and soule.  Doctor Faustus answered, I durst never doe
it, although I often minded to settle my life [myself?-- to godly
people to desire counsell and helpe; and once mine old neighbour
counselled me that I should follow his learning and leave all my
conjurations:  yet, when I was minded to amend and to follow that
good mans counsell, then came the Devill and would have had me
away, as this night he is like to doe, and said, so soone as I
turned againe to God, he would dispatch me altogether."  THE
HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS, Sig. K 3, ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 170: save-- So the later 4tos.--Not in 4to 1604.]

[Footnote 171: and what noise soever ye hear, &c.-- "Lastly, to knit up
my troubled oration, this is my friendly request, that you would
go to rest, and let nothing trouble you; also, if you chance heare
any noyse or rumbling about the house, be not therewith afraid,
for there shall no evill happen unto you," &c.  THE HISTORY OF
DOCTOR FAUSTUS, ubi supra.]

[Footnote 172: O lente, &c.
     "At si, quem malles, Cephalum complexa teneres,
     Clamares, LENTE CURRITE, NOCTIS EQUI."
          Ovid,--AMOR. i. xiii. 39.]

[Footnote 173: That, when you, &c.-- So all the old eds.; and it is certain
that awkward changes of person are sometimes found in passages
of our early poets:  but qy.,

    "That, when THEY vomit forth into the air,
     My limbs may issue from THEIR smoky mouths," &c.?]

[Footnote 174:          and I be chang'd
      Unto some brutish beast-- "Now, thou Faustus, damned wretch,
how happy wert thou, if, as an unreasonable beast, thou mightest
dye without [a-- soule! so shouldst thou not feele any more doubts,"
&c.  THE HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS, Sig. K. ed. 1648.]

[Footnote 175: Exeunt DEVILS with FAUSTUS-- In THE HISTORY OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS,
his "miserable and lamentable end" is described as follows:  it
took place, we are informed, at "the village called Rimlich,
halfe a mile from Wittenberg."--"The students and the other that
were there, when they had prayed for him, they wept, and so went
forth; but Faustus tarried in the hall; and when the gentlemen
were laid in bed, none of them could sleepe, for that they att[e--nded
to heare if they might be privy of his end.  It happened that
betweene twelve and one a clocke at midnight, there blew a mighty
storme of winde against the house, as though it would have blowne
the foundation thereof out of his place.  Hereupon the students
began to feare and goe out of their beds, comforting one another;
but they would not stirre out of the chamber; and the host of
the house ran out of doores, thinking the house would fall.  The
students lay neere unto the hall wherein Doctor Faustus lay, and
they heard a mighty noyse and hissing, as if the hall had beene
full of snakes and adders.  With that, the hall-doore flew open,
wherein Doctor Faustus was, that he began to cry for helpe,
saying, Murther, murther! but it came forth with halfe a voyce,
hollowly:  shortly after, they heard him no more.  But when it was
day, the students, that had taken no rest that night, arose and
went into the hall, in the which they left Doctor Faustus; where
notwithstanding they found not Faustus, but all the hall lay
sprinkled with blood, his braines cleaving to the wall, for the
devill had beaten him from one wall against another; in one corner
lay his eyes, in another his teeth; a pittifull and fearefull
sight to behold.  Then began the students to waile and weepe for
him, and sought for his body in many places.  Lastly, they came
into the yard, where they found his body lying on the horse-dung,
most monstrously torne and fearefull to behold, for his head and
all his joynts were dashed in peeces.  The fore-named students and
masters that were at his death, have obtained so much, that they
buried him in the village where he was so grievously tormented.
After the which they returned to Wittenberg; and comming into the
house of Faustus, they found the servant of Faustus very sad,
unto whom they opened all the matter, who tooke it exceeding
heavily.  There found they also this history of Doctor Faustus
noted and of him written, as is before declared, all save only
his end, the which was after by the students thereto annexed;
further, what his servant had noted thereof, was made in another
booke.  And you have heard that he held by him in his life the
spirit of faire Helena, the which had by him one sonne, the which
he named Justus Faustus:  even the same day of his death they
vanished away, both mother and sonne.  The house before was so
darke that scarce any body could abide therein.  The same night
Doctor Faustus appeared unto his servant lively, and shewed unto
him many secret things, the which he had done and hidden in his
lifetime.  Likewise there were certaine which saw Doctor Faustus
looke out of the window by night, as they passed by the house."
Sig. K 3, ed. 1648.]

Original Comments on the preparation of the E-Text:

SQUARE BRACKETS:

The square brackets, i.e. [ ] are copied from the printed book,
without change.  The open [Exit brackets use in the book have
been closed [by mh].

For this E-Text version of the book, the footnotes have been
consolidated at the end of the play.

Numbering of the footnotes has been changed, and each footnote
is given a unique identity in the form [XXX].

CHANGES TO THE TEXT:

Character names were expanded.  For Example, SECOND SCHOLAR was
SEC. SCHOL.


Produced by Gustavo Daniel Queipo

EDWARD THE SECOND

By Christopher Marlowe

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

KING EDWARD THE SECOND.
PRINCE EDWARD, _his son, afterwards_ KING EDWARD THE THIRD.
KENT, _brother to_ KING EDWARD THE SECOND.
GAVESTON.
ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY.
BISHOP OF COVENTRY.
BISHOP OF WINCHESTER.
WARWICK.
LANCASTER.
PEMBROKE.
ARUNDER.
LEICESTER.
BERKELEY.
MORTIMER _the elder._
MORTIMER _the younger, his nephew._
SPENSER _the elder._
SPENSER _the younger, his son._
BALDOCK.
BAUMONT.
TRUSSEL.
GURNEY.
MATREVIS.
LIGHTBORN.
SIR JOHN OF HAINAULT.
LEVUNE.
RICE AP HOWEL.
ABBOT.
MONKS.
HERALD.
LORDS, POOR MEN, JAMES, MOWER, CHAMPION,
   MESSENGERS, SOLDIERS, _and_ ATTENDANTS.

QUEEN ISABELLA, _wife to_ KING EDWARD THE SECOND.
NIECE _to_ KING EDWARD THE SECOND, _daughter to
   the _DUKE OF GLOCESTER._
LADIES.

           _Enter_ GAVESTON, _reading a letter._

_Gav. My father is deceas'd.  Come, Gaveston,
   And share the kingdom with thy dearest friend._
   Ah, words that make me surfeit with delight!
   What greater bliss can hap to Gaveston
   Than live and be the favourite of a king!
   Sweet prince, I come! these, thy amorous lines
   Might have enforc'd me to have swum from France,
   And, like Leander, gasp'd upon the sand,
   So thou wouldst smile, and take me in thine arms.
   The sight of London to my exil'd eyes
   Is as Elysium to a new-come soul:
   Not that I love the city or the men,
   But that it harbours him I hold so dear,--
   The king, upon whose bosom let me lie,
   And with the world be still at enmity.
   What need the arctic people love star-light,
   To whom the sun shines both by day and night?
   Farewell base stooping to the lordly peers!
   My knee shall bow to none but to the king.
   As for the multitude, that are but sparks,
   Rak'd up in embers of their poverty,--
   _Tanti,_--I'll fawn first on the wind,
   That glanceth at my lips, and flieth away.

                _Enter three_ Poor Men.

   But how now! what are these?
_Poor Men._ Such as desire your worship's service.
_Gav._ What canst thou do?
_First P. Man._ I can ride.
_Gav._ But I have no horse.--What art thou?
_Sec. P. Man._ A traveller.
_Gav._ Let me see; thou wouldst do well
   To wait at my trencher, and tell me lies at dinner-time;
   And, as I like your discoursing, I'll have you.--
   And what art thou?
_Third P. Man._ A soldier, that hath serv'd against the Scot.
_Gav._ Why, there are hospitals for such as you:
   I have no war; and therefore, sir, be gone.
_Third P. Man._ Farewell, and perish by a soldier's hand,
   That wouldst reward them with an hospital!
_Gav._ Ay, ay, these words of his move me as much
   As if a goose should play the porcupine,
   And dart her plumes, thinking to pierce my breast.
   But yet it is no pain to speak men fair;
   I'll flatter these, and make them live in hope.--            [_Aside._
   You know that I came lately out of France,
   And yet I have not view'd my lord the king:
   If I speed well, I'll entertain you all.
_All._ We thank your worship.
_Gav._ I have some business: leave me to myself.
_All._ We will wait here about the court.
_Gav._ Do.                                            [_Exeunt Poor Men._
            These are not men for me;
   I must have wanton poets, pleasant wits,
   Musicians, that with touching of a string
   May draw the pliant king which way I please:
   Music and poetry is his delight;
   Therefore I'll have Italian masks by night,
   Sweet speeches, comedies, and pleasing shows;
   And in the day, when he shall walk abroad,
   Like sylvan nymphs my pages shall be clad;
   My men, like satyrs grazing on the lawns,
   Shall with their goat-feet dance the antic hay;
   Sometime a lovely boy in Dian's shape,
   With hair that gilds the water as it glides
   Crownets of pearl about his naked arms,
   And in his sportful hands an olive-tree,
   To hide those parts which men delight to see,
   Shall bathe him in a spring; and there, hard by,
   One like Actæon, peeping through the grove,
   Shall by the angry goddess be transform'd,
   And running in the likeness of an hart,
   By yelping hounds pull'd down, shall semm to die:
   Such things as these best please his majesty.--
   Here comes my lord the king, and the nobles,
   From the parliament.  I'll stand aside.                    [_Retires._

_Enter_ KING EDWARD, KENT, LANCASTER, _the elder_ MORTIMER,
      _the younger_ MORTIMER, WARWICK, PEMBROKE, _and_
      Attendants.

_K. Edw._ Lancaster!
_Lan._ My lord?
_Gav._ That Earl of Lancaster do I abhor.                       [_Aside._
_K. Edw._ Will you not grant me this?--In spite of them
   I'll have my will; and these two Mortimers,
   That cross me thus, shall know I am displeased.              [_Aside._
_E. Mor._ If you love us, my lord, hate Gaveston.
_Gav._ That villain Mortimer! I'll be his death.                [_Aside._
__Y. Mor._ Mine uncle here, this earl, and I myself,
   Were sworn to your father at his death,
   That he should ne'er return into the realm:
   And now, my lord, ere I will break my oath,
   This sword of mine, that should offend your foes,
   Shall sleep within the scabbard at thy need,
   And underneath thy banners march who will,
   For Mortimer will hang his armour up.
_Gav. Mort dieu!_                                               [_Aside._
_K. Edw._ Well, Mortimer, I'll make thee rue these words:
   Beseems it thee to contradict thy king?
   Frown'st thou thereat, aspiring Lancaster?
   The sword shall plane the furrows of thy brows,
   And hew these knees that now are grown so stiff.
   I will have Gaveston; and you shall know
   What danger 'tis to stand against your king.
_Gav._ Well done, Ned!                                          [_Aside._
_Lan._ My lord, why do you thus incense your peers,
   That naturally would love and honour you,
   But for that base and obscure Gaveston?
   Four earldoms have I, besides Lancaster,--
   Derby, Salisbury, Lincoln, Leicester;
   These will I sell, to give my soldiers pay,
   Ere Gaveston shall stay within the realm:
   Therefore, if he be come, expel him straight.
_Kent._ Barons and earls, your pride hath made me mute;
   But know I'll speak, and to the proof, I hope.
   I do remember, in my father's days,
   Lord Percy of the North, being highly mov'd,
   Brav'd Mowbray in presence of the king;
   For which, had not his highness lov'd him well,
   He should have lost his head; but with his look
   Th' undaunted spirit of Percy was appeas'd,
   And Mowbray and he were reconcil'd:
   Yet dare you brave the king unto his face.--
   Brother, revenge it, and let these their heads
   Preach upon poles, for trespass of their tongues.
_War._ O, our heads!
_K. Edw._ Ay, yours; and therefore I would wish you grant.
_War._ Bridle thy anger, gentle Mortimer.
_Y. Mor._ I cannot, nor I will not; I must speak.--
   Cousin, our hands I hope shall fence our heads,
   And strike off his that makes you threaten us.--
   Come, uncle, let us leave the brain-sick king,
   And henceforth parley with our naked swords.
_E. Mor._ Wiltshire hath men enough to save our heads.
_War._ All Warwickshire will leave him for my sake.
_Lan._ And northward Lancaster hath many friends.--
   Adieu, my lord; and either change your mind,
   Or look to see the throne, where you should sit,
   To float in blood, and at thy wanton head
   The glozing head of thy base minion thrown.
       [_Exeunt all except King Edward, Kent, Gaveston,
          and attendants._
_K. Edw._ I cannot brook these haughty menaces:
   Am I a king, and must be over-rul'd!--
   Brother, display my ensigns in the field:
   I'll bandy with the barons and the earls,
   And either die or live with Gaveston.
_Gav._ I can no longer keep me from my lord.            [_Comes forward._
_K. Edw._ What, Gaveston! welcome!  Kiss not my hand:
   Embrace me, Gaveston, as I do thee.
   Why shouldst thou kneel? know'st thou not who I am?
   Thy friend, thyself, another Gaveston:
   Not Hylas was more mourned for of Hercules
   Than thou hast been of me since thy exile.
_Gav._ And, since I went from hence, no soul in hell
   Hath felt more torment than poor Gaveston.
_K. Edw._ I know it.--Brother, welcome home my friend.--
   Now let the treacherous Mortimers conspire,
   And that high-minded Earl of Lancaster:
   I have my wish, in that I joy thy sight;
   And sooner shall the sea o'erwhelm my land
   Than bear the ship that shall transport thee hence.
   I here create thee Lord High-chamberlain,
   Chief Secretary to the state and me,
   Earl of Cornwall, King and Lord of Man.
_Gav._ My lord, these titles far exceed my worth.
_Kent._ Brother, the least of these may well suffice
   For one of greater birth than Gaveston.
_K. Edw._ Cease, brother, for I cannot brook these words.--
   Thy worth, sweet friend, is far above my gifts:
   Therefore, to equal it, receive my heart.
   If for these dignities thou be envied,
   I'll give thee more; for, but to honour thee,
   Is Edward pleas'd with kingly regiment.
   Fear'st thou thy person? thou shalt have a guard:
   Wantest thou gold? go to my treasury:
   Wouldst thou be lov'd and fear'd? receive my seal,
   Save or condemn, and in our name command
   What so thy mind affects, or fancy likes.
_Gav._ It shall suffice me to enjoy your love;
   Which whiles I have, I think myself as great
   As Cæsar riding in the Roman street,
   With captive kings at his triumphant car.

              _Enter the_ BISHOP OF COVENTRY.

_K. Edw._ Whither goes my Lord of Coventry so fast?
_Bish. of Cov._ To celebrate your father's exequies.
   But is that wicked Gaveston return'd?
_K. Edw._ Ay, priest, and lives to be reveng'd on thee,
   That wert the only cause of his exile.
_Gav._ 'Tis true; and, but for reverence of these robes,
   Thou shouldst not plod one foot beyond this place.
_Bish. of Cov._ I did no more than I was bound to do:
   And, Gaveston, unless thou be reclaim'd,
   As then I did incense the parliament,
   So will I now, and thou shalt back to France.
_Gav._ Saving your reverence, you must pardon me.
_K. Edw._ Throw off his golden mitre, rend his stole,
   And in the channel christen him anew.
_Kent._ Ay, brother, lay not violent hands on him!
   For he'll complain unto the see of Rome.
_Gav._ Let him complain unto the see of hell:
   I'll be reveng'd on him for my exile.
_K. Edw._ No, spare his life, but seize upon his goods:
   Be thou lord bishop, and receive his rents,
   And make him serve thee as thy chaplain:
   I give him thee; here, use him as thou wilt.
_Gav._ He shall to prison, and there die in bolts.
_K. Edw._ Ay, to the Tower, the Fleet, or where thou wilt.
_Bish. of Cov._ For this offence be thou accurs'd of God!
_K. Edw._ Who's there?  Convey this priest to the Tower.
_Bish. of Cov._ True, true.
_K. Edw._ But, in the meantime, Gaveston, away,
   And take possession of his house and goods.
   Come, follow me, and thou shalt have my guard
   To see it done, and bring thee safe again.
_Gav._ What should a priest do with so fair a house?
   A prison may beseem his holiness.                           [_Exeunt._

 _Enter, on one side, the elder_ MORTIMER, _and the younger_
   MORTIMER; _on the other,_ WARWICK, _and_ LANCASTER.

_War._ 'Tis true, the bishop is in the Tower,
   And goods and body given to Gaveston.
_Lan._ What, will they tyrannise upon the church?
   Ah, wicked King! accursed Gaveston!
   This ground, which is corrupted with their steps,
   Shall be their timeless sepulchre or mine.
_Y. Mor._ Well, let that peevish Frenchman guard him sure;
   Unless his breast be sword-proof, he shall die.
_E. Mor._ How now! why droops the Earl of Lancaster?
_Y. Mor._ Wherefore is Guy of Warwick discontent?
_Lan._ That villain Gaveston is made an earl.
_E. Mor._ An earl!
_War._ Ay, and besides Lord-chamberlain of the realm,
   And Secretary too, and Lord of Man.
_E. Mor._ We may not nor we will not suffer this.
_Y. Mor._ Why post we not from hence to levy men?
_Lan._ "My Lord of Cornwall" now at every word;
   And happy is the man whom he vouchsafes,
   For vailing of his bonnet, one good look.
   Thus, arm in arm, the king and he doth march:
   Nay, more, the guard upon his lordship waits,
   And all the court begins to flatter him.
_War._ Thus leaning on the shoulder of the king,
   He nods, and scorns, and smiles at those that pass.
_E. Mor._ Doth no man take exceptions at the slave?
_Lan._ All stomach him, but none dare speak a word.
_Y. Mor._ Ah, that bewrays their baseness, Lancaster!
   Were all the earls and barons of my mind,
   We'd hale him from the bosom of the king,
   And at the court-gate hang the peasant up,
   Who, swoln with venom of ambitious pride,
   Will be the ruin of the realm and us.
_War._ Here comes my Lord of Canterbury's grace.
_Lan._ His countenance bewrays he is displeas'd.

    _Enter the_ ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY, _and an_
                     Attendant.

_Archb. of Cant._ First, were his sacred garments rent and torn;
   Then laid they violent hands upon him; next,
   Himself imprison'd, and his goods asseiz'd:
   This certify the Pope: away, take horse.            [_Exit Attendant._
_Lan._ My lord, will you take arms against the king?
_Archb. of Cant._ What need I?  God himself is up in arms
   When violence is offer'd to the church.
_Y. Mor._ Then will you join with us, that be his peers,
   To banish or behead that Gaveston?
_Archb. of Cant._ What else, my lords? for it concerns me near;
   The bishoprick of Coventry is his.

                   _Enter_ QUEEN ISABELLA.

_Y. Mor._ Madam, whither walks your majesty so fast?
_Q. Isab._ Unto the forest, gentle Mortimer,
   To live in grief and baleful discontent;
   For now my lord the king regards me not,
   But dotes upon the love of Gaveston:
   He claps his cheeks, and hangs about his neck,
   Smiles in his face, and whispers in his ears;
   And, when I come, he frowns, as who should say,
   "Go whither thou wilt, seeing I have Gaveston."
_E. Mor._ Is it not strange that he is thus bewitch'd?
_Y. Mor._ Madam, return unto the court again:
   That sly inveigling Frenchman we'll exile,
   Or lose our lives; and yet, ere that day come,
   The king shall lose his crown; for we have power,
   And courage too, to be reveng'd at full.
_Archb. of Cant._ But yet lift not your swords against the king.
_Lan._ No; but we will lift Gaveston from hence.
_War._ And war must be the means, or he'll stay still.
_Q. Isab._ Then let him stay; for, rather than my lord
   Shall be oppress'd with civil mutinies,
   I will endure a melancholy life,
   And let him frolic with his minion.
_Archb. of Cant._ My lords, to ease all this, but hear me speak:
   We and the rest, that are his counsellors,
   Will meet, and with a general consent
   Confirm his banishment with our hands and seals.
_Lan._ What we confirm the king will frustrate.
_Y. Mor._ Then may we lawfully revolt from him.
_War._ But say, my lord, where shall this meeting be?
_Archb. of Cant._ At the New Temple.
_Y. Mor._ Content.
_Archb. of Cant._ And, in the meantime, I'll entreat you all
   To cross to Lambeth, and there stay with me.
_Lan._ Come, then, let's away.
_Y. Mor._ Madam, farewell.
_Q. Isab._ Farewell, sweet Mortimer, and, for my sake,
   Forbear to levy arms against the king.
_Y. Mor._ Ay, if words will serve; if not, I must.             [_Exeunt._

               _Enter_ GAVESTON _and_ KENT.

_Gav._ Edmund, the mighty prince of Lancaster,
   That hath more earldoms than an ass can bear,
   And both the Mortimers, two goodly men,
   With Guy of Warwick, that redoubted knight,
   Are gone towards Lambeth: there let them remain.                 [_Exeunt._

_Enter_ LANCASTER, WARWICK, PEMBROKE, _the elder_
    MORTIMER, _the younger_ MORTIMER, _the_ ARCHBISHOP
    OF CANTERBURY, _and_ Attendants.

_Lan._ Here is the form of Gaveston's exile;
   May it please your lordship to subscribe your name.
_Archb. of Cant._ Give me the paper.
                            [_He subscribes, as the others do after him._
_Lan._ Quick, quick, my lord; I long to write my name.
_War._ But I long more to see him banish'd hence.
_Y. Mor._ The name of Mortimer shall fright the king,
   Unless he be declin'd from that base peasant.

    _Enter_ KING EDWARD, GAVESTON, _and_ KENT.

_K. Edw._ What, are you mov'd that Gaveston sits here?
   It is our pleasure; we will have it so.
_Lan._ Your grace doth well to place him by your side,
   For nowhere else the new earl is so safe.
_E. Mor._ What man of noble birth can brook this sight?
   _Quam male conveniunt!--_
   See, what a scornful look the peasant casts!
_Pem._ Can kingly lions fawn on creeping ants?
_War._ Ignoble vassal, that, like Phaeton,
   Aspir'st unto the guidance of the sun!
_Y. Mor._ Their downfall is at hand, their forces down:
   We will not thus be fac'd and over-peer'd.
_K. Edw._ Lay hands on that traitor Mortimer!
_E. Mor._ Lay hands on that traitor Gaveston!
_Kent._ Is this the duty that you owe your king?
_War._ We know our duties; let him know his peers.
_K. Edw._ Whither will you bear him? stay, or ye shall die.
_E. Mor._ We are no traitors; therefore threaten not.
_Gav._ No, threaten not, my lord, but pay them home.
   Were I a king--
_Y. Mor._ Thou, villain! wherefore talk'st thou of a king,
   That hardly art a gentleman by birth?
_K. Edw._ Were he a peasant, being my minion,
   I'll make the proudest of you stoop to him.
_Lan._ My lord--you may not thus disparage us.--
   Away, I say, with hateful Gaveston!
_E. Mor._ And with the Earl of Kent that favours him.
                                   [_Attendants remove Gaveston and Kent._
_K. Edw._ Nay, then, lay violent hands upon your king:
   Here, Mortimer, sit thou in Edward's throne;
   Warwick and Lancaster, wear you my crown.
   Was ever king thus over-rul'd as I?
_Lan._ Learn, then, to rule us better, and the realm.
_Y. Mor._ What we have done, our heart-blood shall maintain.
_War._ Think you that we can brook this upstart['s] pride?
_K. Edw._ Anger and wrathful fury stops my speech.
_Archb. of Cant._ Why are you not mov'd? be patient, my lord,
   And see what we your counsellors have done.
_Y. Mor._ My lords, now let us all be resolute,
   And either have our wills, or lose our lives.
_K. Edw._ Meet you for this, proud over-daring peers!
   Ere my sweet Gaveston shall part from me,
   This isle shall fleet upon the ocean,
   And wander to the unfrequented Inde.
_Archb. of Cant._ You know that I am legate to the Pope:
   On your allegiance to the see of Rome,
   Subscribe, as we have done, to his exile.
_Y. Mor._ Curse him, if he refuse; and then may we
   Depose him, and elect another king.
_K. Edw._ Ay, there it goes! but yet I will not yield:
   Curse me, depose me, do the worst you can.
_Lan._ Then linger not, my lord, but do it straight.
_Archb. of Cant._ Remember how the bishop was abus'd:
   Either banish him that was the cause thereof,
   Or I will presently discharge these lords
   Of duty and allegiance due to thee.
_K. Edw._ It boots me not to threat; I must speak fair:
   The legate of the Pope will be obey'd.--                     [_Aside._
   My lord, you shall be Chancellor of the realm;
   Thou, Lancaster, High-Admiral of our fleet;
   Young Mortimer and his uncle shall be earls;
   And you, Lord Warwick, President of the North;
   And thou of Wales.  If this content you not,
   Make several kingdoms of this monarchy,
   And share it equally amongst you all,
   So I may have some nook or corner left,
   To frolic with my dearest Gaveston.
_Archb. of Cant._ Nothing shall alter us; we are resolv'd.
_Lan._ Come, come, subscribe.
_Y. Mor._ Why should you love him whom the world hates so?
_K. Edw._ Because he loves me more than all the world.
   Ah, none but rude and savage-minded men
   Would seek the ruin of my Gaveston!
   You that be noble-born should pity him.
_War._ You that are princely-born should shake him off:
   For shame, subscribe, and let the clown depart.
_E. Mor._ Urge him, my lord.
_Archb. of Cant._ Are you content to banish him the realm?
_K. Edw._ I see I must, and therefore am content:
   Instead of ink, I'll write it with my tears.            [_Subscribes._
_Y. Mor._ The king is love-sick for his minion.
_K. Edw._ 'Tis done: and now, accursed hand, fall off!
_Lan._ Give it me: I'll have it publish'd in the streets.
_Y. Mor._ I'll see him presently despatch'd away.
_Archb. of Cant._ Now is my heart at ease.
_War._ And so is mine.
_Pem._ This will be good news to the common sort.
_E. Mor._ Be it or no, he shall not linger here.
                                        [_Exeunt all except King Edward._
_K. Edw._ How fast they run to banish him I love!
   They would not stir, were it to do me good.
   Why should a king be subject to a priest?
   Proud Rome, that hatchest such imperial grooms,
   With these thy superstitious taper-lights,
   Wherewith thy antichristian churches blaze,
   I'll fire thy crazed buildings, and enforce
   The papal towers to kiss the lowly ground,
   With slaughter'd priests make Tiber's channel swell,
   And banks rais'd higher with their sepulchres!
   As for the peers, that back the clergy thus,
   If I be king, not one of them shall live.

                  _Re-enter_ GAVESTON.

_Gav._ My lord, I hear it whisper'd everywhere,
   That I am banish'd and must fly the land.
_K. Edw._ 'Tis true, sweet Gaveston: O were it false!
   The legate of the Pope will have it so,
   And thou must hence, or I shall be depos'd.
   But I will reign to be reveng'd of them;
   And therefore, sweet friend, take it patiently.
   Live where thou wilt, I'll send thee gold enough;
   And long thou shalt not stay; or, if thou dost,
   I'll come to thee; my love shall ne'er decline.
_Gav._ Is all my hope turn'd to this hell of grief?
_K. Edw._ Rend not my heart with thy too-piercing words:
   Thou from this land, I from myself am banish'd.
_Gav._ To go from hence grieves not poor Gaveston;
   But to forsake you, in whose gracious looks
   The blessedness of Gaveston remains;
   For nowhere else seeks he felicity.
_K. Edw._ And only this torments my wretched soul,
   That, whether I will or no, thou must depart.
   Be governor of Ireland in my stead,
   And there abide till fortune call thee home.
   Here, take my picture, and let me wear thine:
                                               [_They exchange pictures._
   O, might I keep thee here, as I do this,
   Happy were I! but now most miserable.
_Gav._ 'Tis something to be pitied of a king.
_K. Edw._ Thou shalt not hence; I'll hide thee, Gaveston.
_Gav._ I shall be found, and then 'twill grieve me more.
_K. Edw._ Kind words and mutual talk makes our grief greater:
   Therefore, with dumb embracement, let us part,
   Stay, Gaveston; I cannot leave thee thus.
_Gav._ For every look, my love drops down a tear:
   Seeing I must go, do not renew my sorrow.
_K. Edw._ The time is little that thou hast to stay,
   And, therefore, give me leave to look my fill.
   But, come, sweet friend; I'll bear thee on thy way.
_Gav._ The peers will frown.
_K. Edw._ I pass not for their anger.  Come, let's go:
   O, that we might as well return as go!

               _Enter_ QUEEN ISABELLA.

_Q. Isab._ Whither goes my lord?
_K. Edw._ Fawn not on me, French strumpet; get thee gone!
_Q. Isab._ On whom but on my husband should I fawn?
_Gav._ On Mortimer; with whom, ungentle queen,--
   I judge no more--judge you the rest, my lord.
_Q. Isab._ In saying this, thou wrong'st me, Gaveston:
   Is't not enough that thou corrupt'st my lord,
   And art a bawd to his affections,
   But thou must call mine honour thus in question?
_Gav._ I mean not so; your grace must pardon me.
_K. Edw._ Thou art too familiar with that Mortimer,
   And by thy means is Gaveston exil'd:
   But I would wish thee reconcile the lords,
   Or thou shalt ne'er be reconcil'd to me.
_Q. Isab._ Your highness knows, it lies not in my power.
_K. Edw._ Away, then! touch me not.--Come, Gaveston.
_Q. Isab._ Villain, 'tis thou that robb'st me of my lord.
_Gav._ Madam, 'tis you that rob me of my lord.
_K. Edw._ Speak not unto her: let her droop and pine.
_Q. Isab._ Wherein, my lord, have I deserv'd these words?
   Witness the tears that Isabella sheds,
   Witness this heart, that, sighing for thee, breaks,
   How dear my lord is to poor Isabel!
_K. Edw._ And witness heaven how dear thou art to me:
   There weep; for, till my Gaveston be repeal'd,
   Assure thyself thou com'st not in my sight.
                                      [_Exeunt King Edward and Gaveston._
_Q. Isab._ O miserable and distressed queen!
   Would, when I left sweet France, and was embarked,
   That charming Circe, walking on the waves,
   Had chang'd my shape! or at the marriage-day
   The cup of Hymen had been full of poison!
   Or with those arms, that twin'd about my neck,
   I had been stifled, and not liv'd to see
   The king my lord thus to abandon me!
   Like frantic Juno, will I fill the earth
   With ghastly murmur of my sighs and cries;
   For never doted Jove on Ganymede
   So much as he on cursed Gaveston:
   But that will more exasperate his wrath;
   I must entreat him, I must speak him fair,
   And be a means to call home Gaveston:
   And yet he'll ever dote on Gaveston;
   And so am I for ever miserable.

  _Re-enter_ LANCASTER, WARWICK, PEMBROKE, _the elder_
       MORTIMER, _and the younger_ MORTIMER.

_Lan._ Look, where the sister of the king of France
   Sits wringing of her hands and beats her breast!
_War._ The king, I fear, hath ill-treated her.
_Pem._ Hard is the heart that injures such a saint.
_Y. Mor._ I know 'tis 'long of Gaveston she weeps.
_E. Mor._ Why, he is gone.
_Y. Mor._ Madam, how fares your grace?
_Q. Isab._ Ah, Mortimer, now breaks the king's hate forth,
   And he confesseth that he loves me not!
_Y. Mor._ Cry quittance, madam, then, and love not him.
_Q. Isab._ No, rather will I die a thousand deaths:
   And yet I love in vain; he'll ne'er love me.
_Lan._ Fear ye not, madam; now his minion's gone,
   His wanton humour will be quickly left.
_Q. Isab._ O, never, Lancaster! I am enjoin'd,
   To sue unto you all for his repeal:
   This wills my lord, and this must I perform,
   Or else be banish'd from his highness' presence.
_Lan._ For his repeal, madam! he comes not back,
   Unless the sea cast up his shipwreck'd body.
_War._ And to behold so sweet a sight as that,
   There's none here but would run his horse to death.
_Y. Mor._ But, madam, would you have us call him home?
_Q. Isab._ Ay, Mortimer, for, till he be restor'd,
   The angry king hath banish'd me the court;
   And, therefore, as thou lov'st and tender'st me,
   Be thou my advocate unto these peers.
_Y. Mor._ What, would you have me plead for Gaveston?
_E. Mor._ Plead for him that will, I am resolv'd.
_Lan._ And so am I, my lord: dissuade the queen.
_Q. Isab._ O, Lancaster, let him dissuade the king!
   For 'tis against my will he should return.
_War._ Then speak not for him; let the peasant go.
_Q. Isab._ 'Tis for myself I speak, and not for him.
_Pem._ No speaking will prevail; and therefore cease.
_Y. Mor._ Fair queen, forbear to angle for the fish
   Which, being caught, strikes him that takes it dead;
   I mean that vile torpedo, Gaveston,
   That now, I hope, floats on the Irish seas.
_Q. Isab._ Sweet Mortimer, sit down by me a while,
   And I will tell thee reasons of such weight
   As thou wilt soon subscribe to his repeal.
_Y. Mor._ It is impossible: but speak your mind.
_Q. Isab._ Then, thus;--but none shall hear it but ourselves.
                                               [_Talks to Y. Mor. apart._
_Lan._ My lords, albeit the queen win Mortimer,
   Will you be resolute and hold with me?
_E. Mor._ Not I, against my nephew.
_Pem._ Fear not; the queen's words cannot alter him.
_War._ No? do but mark how earnestly she pleads!
_Lan._ And see how coldly his looks make denial!
_War._ She smiles: now, for my life, his mind is chang'd!
_Lan._ I'll rather lose his friendship, I, than grant.
_Y. Mor._ Well, of necessity it must be so.--
   My lords, that I abhor base Gaveston
   I hope your honours make no question.
   And therefore, though I plead for his repeal,
   'Tis not for his sake, but to our avail;
   Nay, for the realm's behoof, and for the king's.
_Lan._ Fie, Mortimer, dishonour not thyself!
   Can this be true, 'twas good to banish him?
   And is this true, to call him home again?
   Such reasons make white black, and dark night day.
_Y. Mor._ My Lord of Lancaster, mark the respect.
_Lan._ In no respect can contraries be true.
_Q. Isab._ Yet, good my lord, hear what he can allege.
_War._ All that he speaks is nothing; we are resolv'd.
_Y. Mor._ Do you not wish that Gaveston were dead?
_Pem._ I would he were!
_Y. Mor._ Why, then, my lord, give me but leave to speak.
_E. Mor._ But, nephew, do not play the sophister.
_Y. Mor._ This which I urge is of a burning zeal
   To mend the king and do our country good.
   Know you not Gaveston hath store of gold,
   Which may in Ireland purchase him such friends
   As he will front the mightiest of us all?
   And whereas he shall live and be belov'd,
   'Tis hard for us to work his overthrow.
_War._ Mark you but that, my lord of Lancaster.
_Y. Mor._ But, were he here, detested as he is,
   How easily might some base slave be suborn'd
   To greet his lordship with a poniard,
   And none so much as blame the murderer,
   But rather praise him for that brave attempt,
   And in the chronicle enrol his name
   For purging of the realm of such a plague!
_Pem._ He saith true.
_Lan._ Ay, but how chance this was not done before?
_Y. Mor._ Because, my lords, it was not thought upon.
   Nay, more, when he shall know it lies in us
   To banish him, and then to call him home,
   'Twill make him vail the top flag of his pride,
   And fear to offend the meanest nobleman.
_E. Mor._ But how if he do not, nephew?
_Y. Mor._ Then may we with some colour rise in arms;
   For, howsoever we have borne it out,
   'Tis treason to be up against the king;
   So shall we have the people of our side,
   Which, for his father's sake, lean to the king,
   But cannot brook a night-grown mushroom,
   Such a one as my Lord of Cornwall is,
   Should bear us down of the nobility:
   And, when the commons and the nobles join,
   'Tis not the king can buckler Gaveston;
   We'll pull him from the strongest hold he hath.
   My lords, if to perform this I be slack,
   Think me as base a groom as Gaveston.
_Lan._ On that condition Lancaster will grant.
_War._ And so will Pembroke and I.
_E. Mor._ And I.
_Y. Mor._ In this I count me highly gratified,
   And Mortimer will rest at your command.
_Q. Isab._ And when this favour Isabel forgets,
   Then let her live abandon'd and forlorn.--
   But see, in happy time, my lord the king,
   Having brought the Earl of Cornwall on his way,
   Is new return'd.  This news will glad him much:
   Yet not so much as me; I love him more
   Than he can Gaveston: would he lov'd me
   But half so much! then were I treble-blest.

           _Re-enter_ KING EDWARD, _mourning._

_K. Edw._ He's gone, and for his absence thus I mourn:
   Did never sorrow go so near my heart
   As doth the want of my sweet Gaveston;
   And, could my crown's revenue bring him back,
   I would freely give it to his enemies,
   And think I gain'd, having bought so dear a friend.
_Q. Isab._ Hark, how he harps upon his minion!
_K. Edw._ My heart is as an anvil unto sorrow,
   Which beats upon it like the Cyclops' hammers,
   And with the noise turns up my giddy brain,
   And makes me frantic for my Gaveston.
   Ah, had some bloodless Fury rose from hell,
   And with my kingly sceptre struck me dead,
   When I was forc'd to leave my Gaveston!
_Lan. Diablo,_ what passions call you these?
_Q. Isab._ My gracious lord, I come to bring you news.
_K. Edw._ That you have parled with your Mortimer?
_Q. Isab._ That Gaveston, my lord, shall be repeal'd.
_K. Edw._ Repeal'd! the news is too sweet to be true.
_Q. Isab._ But will you love me, if you find it so?
_K. Edw._ If it be so, what will not Edward do?
_Q. Isab._ For Gaveston, but not for Isabel.
_K. Edw._ For thee, fair queen, if thou lov'st Gaveston;
   I'll hang a golden tongue about thy neck,
   Seeing thou hast pleaded with so good success.
_Q. Isab._ No other jewels hang about my neck
   Than these, my lord; nor let me have more wealth
   Than I may fetch from this rich treasury.
   O, how a kiss revives poor Isabel!
_K. Edw._ Once more receive my hand; and let this be
   A second marriage 'twixt thyself and me.
_Q. Isab._ And may it prove more happy than the first!
   My gentle lord, bespeak these nobles fair,
   That wait attendance for a gracious look,
   And on their knees salute your majesty.
_K. Edw._ Courageous Lancaster, embrace thy king;
   And, as gross vapours perish by the sun,
   Even so let hatred with thy sovereign's smile:
   Live thou with me as my companion.
_Lan._ This salutation overjoys my heart.
_K. Edw._ Warwick shall be my chiefest counsellor:
   These silver hairs will more adorn my court
   Than gaudy silks or rich embroidery.
   Chide me, sweet Warwick, if I go astray.
_War._ Slay me, my lord, when I offend your grace.
_K. Edw._ In solemn triumphs and in public shows
   Pembroke shall bear the sword before the king.
_Pem._ And with this sword Pembroke will fight for you.
_K. Edw._ But wherefore walks young Mortimer aside?
   Be thou commander of our royal fleet;
   Or, if that lofty office like thee not,
   I make thee here Lord Marshal of the realm.
_Y. Mor._ My lord, I'll marshal so your enemies,
   As England shall be quiet, and you safe.
_K. Edw._ And as for you, Lord Mortimer of Chirke,
   Whose great achievements in our foreign war
   Deserve no common place nor mean reward,
   Be you the general of the levied troops
   That now are ready to assail the Scots.
_E. Mor._ In this your grace hath highly honour'd me,
   For with my nature war doth best agree.
_Q. Isab._ Now is the king of England rich and strong,
   Having the love of his renowmed peers.
_K. Edw._ Ay, Isabel, ne'er was my heart so light.--
   Clerk of the crown, direct our warrant forth,
   For Gaveston, to Ireland!

              _Enter_ BEAUMONT _with warrant._

                               Beaumont, fly
   As fast as Iris or Jove's Mercury.
_Beau._ It shall be done, my gracious lord.                      [_Exit._
_K. Edw._ Lord Mortimer, we leave you to your charge.
   Now let us in, and feast it royally.
   Against our friend the Earl of Cornwall comes
   We'll have a general tilt and tournament;
   And then his marriage shall be solemnis'd;
   For wot you not that I have made him sure
   Unto our cousin, the Earl of Glocester's heir?
_Lan._ Such news we hear, my lord.
_K. Edw._ That day, if not for him, yet for my sake,
   Who in the triumph will be challenger,
   Spare for no cost; we will requite your love.
_War._ In this or aught your highness shall command us.
_K. Edw._ Thanks, gentle Warwick.  Come, lets in and revel.
                           [_Exeunt all except the elder Mortimer and the
                              younger Mortimer._
_E. Mor._ Nephew, I must to Scotland; thou stay'st here.
   Leave now to oppose thyself against the king:
   Thou seest by nature he is mild and calm;
   And, seeing his mind so dotes on Gaveston,
   Let him without controlment have his will.
   The mightiest kings have had their minions;
   Great Alexander lov'd Hephæstion,
   The conquering Hercules for Hylas wept,
   And for Patroclus stern Achilles droop'd
   And not kings only, but the wisest men;
   The Roman Tully lov'd Octavius,
   Grave Socrates wild Alcibiades.
   Then let his grace, whose youth is flexible,
   And promiseth as much as we can wish,
   Freely enjoy that vain light-headed earl;
   For riper years will wean him from such toys.
_Y. Mor._ Uncle, his wanton humour grieves not me;
   But this I scorn, that one so basely-born
   Should by his sovereign's favour grow so pert,
   And riot it with the treasure of the realm,
   While soldiers mutiny for want of pay.
   He wears a lord's revenue on his back,
   And, Midas-like, he jets it in the court,
   With base outlandish cullions at his heels,
   Whose proud fantastic liveries make such show
   As if that Proteus, god of shapes, appear'd.
   I have not seen a dapper Jack so brisk:
   He wears a short Italian hooded cloak,
   Larded with pearl, and in his Tuscan cap
   A jewel of more value than the crown.
   While others walk below, the king and he,
   From out a window, laugh at such as we,
   And flout our train, and jest at our attire.
   Uncle, 'tis this that makes me impatient.
_E. Mor._ But, nephew, now you see the king is chang'd.
_Y. Mor._ Then so I am, and live to do him service:
   But, whiles I have a sword, a hand, a heart,
   I will not yield to any such upstart.
   You know my mind: come, uncle, let's away.                  [_Exeunt._

        _Enter the younger_ SPENSER _and_ BALDOCK.

_Bald._ Spenser,
   Seeing that our lord the Earl of Glocester's dead,
   Which of the nobles dost thou mean to serve?
_Y. Spen._ Not Mortimer, nor any of his side,
   Because the king and he are enemies.
   Baldock, learn this of me: a factious lord
   Shall hardly do himself good, much less us;
   But he that hath the favour of a king
   May with one word advance us while we live.
   The liberal Earl of Cornwall is the man
   On whose good fortune Spenser's hope depends.
_Bald._ What, mean you, then, to be his follower?
_Y. Spen._ No, his companion; for he loves me well,
   And would have once preferr'd me to the king.
_Bald._ But he is banish'd; there's small hope of him.
_Y. Spen._ Ay, for a while; but, Baldock, mark the end.
   A friend of mine told me in secrecy
   That he's repeal'd and sent for back again;
   And even now a post came from the court
   With letters to our lady from the king;
   And, as she read, she smil'd; which makes me think
   It is about her lover Gaveston.
_Bald._ 'Tis like enough; for, since he was exil'd,
   She neither walks abroad nor comes in sight.
   But I had thought the match had been broke off,
   And that his banishment had chang'd her mind.
_Y. Spen._ Our lady's first love is not wavering;
   My life for thine, she will have Gaveston.
_Bald._ Then hope I by her means to be preferr'd,
   Having read unto her since she was a child.
_Y. Spen._ Then, Baldock, you must cast the scholar off,
   And learn to court it like a gentleman.
   'Tis not a black coat and a little band,
   A velvet-cap'd cloak, fac'd before with serge,
   And smelling to a nosegay all the day,
   Or holding of a napkin in your hand,
   Or saying a long grace at a table's end,
   Or making low legs to a nobleman,
   Or looking downward, with your eye-lids close,
   And saying, "Truly, an't may please your honour,"
   Can get you any favour with great men:
   You must be proud, bold, pleasant, resolute,
   And now and then stab, as occasion serves.
_Bald._ Spenser, thou know'st I hate such formal toys,
   And use them but of mere hypocrisy.
   Mine old lord, whiles he liv'd, was so precise,
   That he would take exceptions at my buttons,
   And, being like pins' heads, blame me for the bigness;
   Which made me curate-like in mine attire,
   Though inwardly licentious enough,
   And apt for any kind of villany.
   I am none of these common pedants, I,
   That cannot speak without _propterea quod._
_Y. Spen._ But one of those that saith _quando-quidem,_
   And hath a special gift to form a verb.
_Bald._ Leave off this jesting; here my lady comes.

               _Enter_ KING EDWARD'S Niece.

_Niece._ The grief for his exile was not so much
   As is the joy of his returning home.
   This letter came from my sweet Gaveston:
   What need'st thou, love, thus to excuse thyself?
   I know thou couldst not come and visit me.                   [_Reads._
   _I will not long be from thee, though I die;--_
   This argues the entire love of my lord;--                    [_Reads._
   _When I forsake thee, death seize on my heart!--_
   But stay thee here where Gaveston shall sleep.
                                       [_Puts the letter into her bosom._
   Now to the letter of my lord the king:
   He wills me to repair unto the court,
   And meet my Gaveston: why do I stay,
   Seeing that he talks thus of my marriage day?--
   Who's there?  Baldock!
   See that my coach be ready; I must hence.
_Bald._ It shall be done, madam.
_Niece._ And meet me at the park-pale presently          [_Exit Baldock._
   Spenser, stay you, and bear me company,
   For I have joyful news to tell thee of;
   My lord of Cornwall is a-coming over,
   And will be at the court as soon as we.
_Y. Spen._ I knew the king would have him home again.
_Niece._ If all things sort out, as I hope they will,
   Thy service, Spenser, shall be thought upon.
_Y. Spen._ I humbly thank your ladyship.
_Niece._ Come, lead the way: I long till I am there.           [_Exeunt._

_Enter_ KING EDWARD, QUEEN ISABELLA, KENT, LANCASTER,
     _the younger_ MORTIMER, WARWICK, PEMBROKE, _and_
     Attendants.

_K. Edw._ The wind is good; I wonder why he stays:
   I fear me he is wreck'd upon the sea.
_Q. Isab._ Look, Lancaster, how passionate he is,
   And still his mind runs on his minion!
_Lan._ My lord,--
_K. Edw._ How now! what news? is Gaveston arriv'd?
_Y. Mor._ Nothing but Gaveston! what means your grace?
   You have matters of more weight to think upon:
   The King of France sets foot in Normandy.
_K. Edw._ A trifle! we'll expel him when we please.
   But tell me, Mortimer, what's thy device
   Against the stately triumph we decreed?
_Y. Mor._ A homely one, my lord, not worth the telling.
_K. Edw._ Pray thee, let me know it.
_Y. Mor._ But, seeing you are so desirous, thus it is;
   A lofty cedar tree, fair flourishing,
   On whose top branches kingly eagles perch,
   And by the bark a canker creeps me up,
   And gets unto the highest bough of all;
   The motto, _Æque tandem._
_K. Edw._ And what is yours, my Lord of Lancaster?
_Lan._ My lord, mine's more obscure than Mortimer's.
   Pliny reports, there is a flying-fish
   Which all the other fishes deadly hate,
   And therefore, being pursu'd, it takes the air:
   No sooner is it up, but there's a fowl
   That seizeth it: this fish, my lord, I bear;
   The motto this, _Undique mors est._
_Kent._ Proud Mortimer! ungentle Lancaster!
   Is this the love you bear your sovereign?
   Is this the fruit your reconcilement bears?
   Can you in words make show of amity,
   And in your shields display your rancorous minds?
   What call you this but private libelling
   Against the Earl of Cornwall and my brother?
_Q. Isab._ Sweet husband, be content; they all love you.
_K. Edw._ They love me not that hate my Gaveston.
   I am that cedar; shake me not too much;
   And you the eagles; soar ye ne'er so high,
   I have the jesses that will pull you down;
   And _Æque tandem_ shall that canker cry
   Unto the proudest peer of Britainy.
   Thou that compar'st him to a flying-fish,
   And threaten'st death whether he rise or fall,
   'Tis not the hugest monster of the sea,
   Nor foulest harpy, that shall swallow him.
_Y. Mor._ If in his absence thus he favours him,
   What will he do whenas he shall be present?
_Lan._ That shall we see: look, where his lordship come!

                   _Enter_ GAVESTON.

_K. Edw._ My Gaveston!
   Welcome to Tynmouth! welcome to thy friend!
   Thy absence made me droop and pine away;
   For, as the lovers of fair Danaë,
   When she was lock'd up in a brazen tower,
   Desir'd her more, and wax'd outrageous,
   So did it fare with me: and now thy sight
   Is sweeter far than was thy parting hence
   Bitter and irksome to my sobbing heart.
_Gav._ Sweet lord and king, your speech preventeth mine;
   Yet have I words left to express my joy:
   The shepherd, nipt with biting winter's rage,
   Frolics not more to see the painted spring
   Than I do to behold your majesty.
_K. Edw._ Will none of you salute my Gaveston?
_Lan._ Salute him! yes.--Welcome, Lord Chamberlain!
_Y. Mor._ Welcome is the good Earl of Cornwall!
_War._ Welcome, Lord Governor of the Isle of Man!
_Pem._ Welcome, Master Secretary!
_Kent._ Brother, do you hear them?
_K. Edw._ Still will these earls and barons use me thus?
_Gav._ My lord, I cannot brook these injuries.
_Q. Isab._ Ay me, poor soul, when these begin to jar!           [_Aside._
_K. Edw._ Return it to their throats; I'll be thy warrant.
_Gav._ Base, leaden earls, that glory in your birth,
   Go sit at home, and eat your tenants' beef;
   And come not here to scoff at Gaveston,
   Whose mounting thoughts did never creep so low
   As to bestow a look on such as you.
_Lan._ Yet I disdain not to do this for you.
                         [_Draws his sword, and offers to stab Gaveston._
_K. Edw._ Treason! treason! where's the traitor?
_Pem._ Here, here!
_K. Edw._ Convey hence Gaveston; they'll murder him.
_Gav._ The life of thee shall salve this foul disgrace.
_Y. Mor._ Villain, thy life! unless I miss mine aim.  [_Wounds Gaveston._
_Q. Isab._ Ah, furious Mortimer, what hast thou done.
_Y. Mor._ No more than I would answer, were he slain.
                                        [_Exit Gaveston with Attendants._
_K. Edw._ Yes, more than thou canst answer, though he live:
   Dear shall you both abide this riotous deed:
   Out of my presence! come not near the court.
_Y. Mor._ I'll not be barr'd the court for Gaveston.
_Lan._ We'll hale him by the ears unto the block.
_K. Edw._ Look to your own heads; his is sure enough.
_War._ Look to your own crown, if you back him thus.
_Kent._ Warwick, these words do ill beseem thy years.
_K. Edw._ Nay, all of them conspire to cross me thus:
   But, if I live, I'll tread upon their heads
   That think with high looks thus to tread me down.
   Come, Edmund, let's away, and levy men:
   'Tis war that must abate these barons' pride.
                         [_Exeunt King Edward, Queen Isabella, and Kent._
_War._ Let's to our castles, for the king is mov'd.
_Y. Mor._ Mov'd may he be, and perish in his wrath!
_Lan._ Cousin, it is no dealing with him now;
   He means to make us stoop by force of arms:
   And therefore let us jointly here protest
   To prosecute that Gaveston to the death.
_Y. Mor._ By heaven, the abject villain shall not live!
_War._ I'll have his blood, or die in seeking it.
_Pem._ The like oath Pembroke takes.
_Lan._ And so doth Lancaster.
   Now send our heralds to defy the king;
   And make the people swear to put him down.

                     _Enter a_ Messenger.

_Y. Mor._ Letters! from whence?
_Mes._ From Scotland, my lord.             [_Giving letters to Mortimer._
_Lan._ Why, how now, cousin! how fare all our friends?
_Y. Mor._ My uncle's taken prisoner by the Scots.
_Lan._ We'll have him ransom'd, man: be of good cheer.
_Y. Mor._ They rate his ransom at five thousand pound.
   Who should defray the money but the king,
   Seeing he is taken prisoner in his wars?
   I'll to the king.
_Lan._ Do, cousin, and I'll bear thee company.
_War._ Meantime my Lord of Pembroke and myself
   Will to Newcastle here, and gather head.
_Y. Mor._ About it, then, and we will follow you.
_Lan._ Be resolute and full of secrecy.
_War._ I warrant you.                              [_Exit with Pembroke._
_Y. Mor._ Cousin, an if he will not ransom him,
   I'll thunder such a peal into his ears
   As never subject did unto his king.
_Lan._ Content; I'll bear my part.--Hollo! who's there?

                       _Enter_ Guard.

_Y. Mor._ Ay, marry, such a guard as this doth well.
_Lan._ Lead on the way.
_Guard._ Whither will your lordships?
_Y. Mor._ Whither else but to the king?
_Guard._ His highness is dispos'd to be alone.
_Lan._ Why, so he may; but we will speak to him.
_Guard._ You may not in, my lord.
_Y. Mor._ May we not?

           _Enter_ KING EDWARD _and_ KENT.

_K. Edw._ How now!
   What noise is this? who have we here? is't you?              [_Going._
_Y. Mor._ Nay, stay, my lord; I come to bring you news;
   Mine uncle's taken prisoner by the Scots.
_K. Edw._ Then ransom him.
_Lan._ 'Twas in your wars; you should ransom him.
_Y. Mor._ And you will ransom him, or else--
_Kent._ What, Mortimer, you will not threaten him?
_K. Edw._ Quiet yourself; you shall have the broad seal,
   To gather for him th[o]roughout the realm.
_Lan._ Your minion Gaveston hath taught you this.
_Y. Mor._ My lord, the family of the Mortimers
   Are not so poor, but, would they sell their land,
   'Twould levy men enough to anger you.
   We never beg, but use such prayers as these.
_K. Edw._ Shall I still be haunted thus?
_Y. Mor._ Nay, now you are here alone, I'll speak my mind.
_Lan._ And so will I; and then, my lord, farewell.
_Y. Mor._ The idle triumphs, masks, lascivious shows,
   And prodigal gifts bestow'd on Gaveston,
   Have drawn thy treasury dry, and made thee weak;
   The murmuring commons, overstretched, break.
_Lan._ Look for rebellion, look to be depos'd:
   Thy garrisons are beaten out of France,
   And, lame and poor, lie groaning at the gates;
   The wild Oneil, with swarms of Irish kerns,
   Lives uncontroll'd within the English pale;
   Unto the walls of York the Scots make road,
   And, unresisted, drive away rich spoils.
_Y. Mor._ The haughty Dane commands the narrow seas,
   While in the harbour ride thy ships unrigg'd.
_Lan._ What foreign prince sends thee ambassadors?
_Y. Mor._ Who loves thee, but a sort of flatterers?
_Lan._ Thy gentle queen, sole sister to Valois,
   Complains that thou hast left her all forlorn.
_Y. Mor._ Thy court is naked, being bereft of those
   That make a king seem glorious to the world,
   I mean the peers, whom thou shouldst dearly love;
   Libels are cast against thee in the street;
   Ballads and rhymes made of thy overthrow.
_Lan._ The northern borderers, seeing their houses burnt,
   Their wives and children slain, run up and down,
   Cursing the name of thee and Gaveston.
_Y. Mor._ When wert thou in the field with banner spread,
   But once? and then thy soldiers march'd like players,
   With garish robes, not armour; and thyself,
   Bedaub'd with gold, rode laughing at the rest,
   Nodding and shaking of thy spangled crest,
   Where women's favours hung like labels down.
_Lan._ And thereof came it that the fleering Scots,
   To England's high disgrace, have made this jig;
   _Maids of England, sore may you mourn,
   For your lemans you have lost at Bannocksbourn,--
   With a heave and a ho!
   What weeneth the king of England
   So soon to have won Scotland!--
   With a rombelow!_
_Y. Mor._ Wigmore shall fly, to set my uncle free.
_Lan._ And, when 'tis gone, our swords shall purchase more.
   If you be mov'd, revenge it as you can:
   Look next to see us with our ensigns spread.  [_Exit with Y. Mortimer._
_K. Edw._ My swelling heart for very anger breaks:
   How oft have I been baited by these peers,
   And dare not be reveng'd, for their power is great!
   Yet, shall the crowning of these cockerels
   Affright a lion?  Edward, unfold thy paws,
   And let their lives'-blood slake thy fury's hunger.
   If I be cruel and grow tyrannous,
   Now let them thank themselves, and rue too late.
_Kent._ My lord, I see your love to Gaveston
   Will be the ruin of the realm and you,
   For now the wrathful nobles threaten wars;
   And therefore, brother, banish him for ever.
_K. Edw._ Art thou an enemy to my Gaveston?
_Kent._ Ay; and it grieves me that I favour'd him.
_K. Edw._ Traitor, be gone! whine thou with Mortimer.
_Kent._ So will I, rather than with Gaveston.
_K. Edw._ Out of my sight, and trouble me no more!
_Kent._ No marvel though thou scorn thy noble peers,
   When I thy brother am rejected thus.
_K. Edw._ Away!                                             [_Exit Kent._
   Poor Gaveston, thou hast no friend but me!
   Do what they can, we'll live in Tynmouth here;
   And, so I walk with him about the walls,
   What care I though the earls begirt us round?
   Here comes she that is cause of all these jars.

_Enter_ QUEEN ISABELLA, _with_ EDWARD'S NIECE, _two_ Ladies,
       GAVESTON, BALDOCK, _and the younger_ SPENSER.

_Q. Isab._ My lord, 'tis thought the earls are up in arms.
_K. Edw._ Ay, and 'tis likewise thought you favour 'em.
_Q. Isab._ Thus do you still suspect me without cause.
_Niece._ Sweet uncle, speak more kindly to the queen.
_Gav._ My lord, dissemble with her; speak her fair.
_K. Edw._ Pardon me, sweet; I forgot myself.
_Q. Isab._ Your pardon is quickly got of Isabel.
_K. Edw._ The younger Mortimer is grown so brave,
   That to my face he threatens civil wars.
_Gav._ Why do you not commit him to the Tower?
_K. Edw._ I dare not, for the people love him well.
_Gav._ Why, then, we'll have him privily made away.
_K. Edw._ Would Lancaster and he had both carous'd
   A bowl of poison to each other's health!
   But let them go, and tell me what are these.
_Niece._ Two of my father's servants whilst he liv'd:
   May't please your grace to entertain them now.
_K. Edw._ Tell me, where wast thou born? what is thine arms?
_Bald._ My name is Baldock, and my gentry
   I fetch from Oxford, not from heraldry.
_K. Edw._ The fitter art thou, Baldock, for my turn.
   Wait on me, and I'll see thou shalt not want.
_Bald._ I humbly thank your majesty.
_K. Edw._ Knowest thou him, Gaveston.
_Gav._ Ay, my lord;
   His name is Spenser; he is well allied:
   For my sake let him wait upon your grace;
   Scarce shall you find a man of more desert.
_K. Edw._ Then, Spenser, wait upon me for his sake:
   I'll grace thee with a higher style ere long.
_Y. Spen._ No greater titles happen unto me
   Than to be favour'd of your majesty!
_K. Edw._ Cousin, this day shall be your marriage feast:--
   And, Gaveston, think that I love thee well,
   To wed thee to our niece, the only heir
   Unto the Earl of Glocester late deceas'd.
_Gav._ I know, my lord, many will stomach me;
   But I respect neither their love nor hate.
_K. Edw._ The headstrong barons shall not limit me;
   He that I list to favour shall be great.
   Come, let's away; and, when the marriage ends,
   Have at the rebels and their complices!                     [_Exeunt._

      _Enter_ KENT, LANCASTER, _the younger_ MORTIMER,
              WARWICK, PEMBROKE, _and others._

_Kent._ My lords, of love to this our native land,
   I come to join with you, and leave the king;
   And in your quarrel, and the realm's behoof,
   Will be the first that shall adventure life.
_Lan._ I fear me, you are sent of policy,
   To undermine us with a show of love.
_War._ He is your brother; therefore have we cause
   To cast the worst, and doubt of your revolt.
_Kent._ Mine honour shall be hostage of my truth:
   If that will not suffice, farewell, my lords.
_Y. Mor._ Stay, Edmund: never was Plantagenet
   False of his word; and therefore trust we thee.
_Pem._ But what's the reason you should leave him now?
_Kent._ I have inform'd the Earl of Lancaster.
_Lan._ And it sufficeth.  Now, my lords, know this,
   That Gaveston is secretly arriv'd,
   And here in Tynmouth frolics with the king.
   Let us with these our followers scale the walls,
   And suddenly surprise them unawares.
_Y. Mor._ I'll give the onset.
_War._ And I'll follow thee.
_Y. Mor._ This tatter'd ensign of my ancestors,
   Which swept the desert shore of that Dead Sea
   Whereof we got the name of Mortimer,
   Will I advance upon this castle ['s] walls--
   Drums, strike alarum, raise them from their sport,
   And ring aloud the knell of Gaveston!
_Lan._ None be so hardy as to touch the king;
   But neither spare you Gaveston nor his friends.             [_Exeunt._

   _Enter, severally_ KING EDWARD _and the younger_
                        SPENSER.

_K. Edw._ O, tell me, Spenser, where is Gaveston?
_Y. Spen._ I fear me he is slain, my gracious lord.
_K. Edw._ No, here he comes; now let them spoil and kill.

     _Enter_ QUEEN ISABELLA, KING EDWARD'S Niece,
                GAVESTON, _and_ Nobles.

   Fly, fly, my lords; the earls have got the hold;
   Take shipping, and away to Scarborough:
   Spenser and I will post away by land.
_Gav._ O, stay, my lord! they will not injure you.
_K. Edw._ I will not trust them.  Gaveston, away!
_Gav._ Farewell, my lord.
_K. Edw._ Lady, farewell.
_Niece._ Farewell, sweet uncle, till we meet again.
_K. Edw._ Farewell, sweet Gaveston; and farewell, niece.
_Q. Isab._ No farewell to poor Isabel thy queen?
_K. Edw._ Yes, yes, for Mortimer your lover's sake.
_Q. Isab._ Heavens can witness, I love none but you.
                                     [_Exeunt all except Queen Isabella._
   From my embracements thus he breaks away.
   O, that mine arms could close this isle about,
   That I might pull him to me where I would!
   Or that these tears, that drizzle from mine eyes,
   Had power to mollify his stony heart,
   That, when I had him, we might never part!

_Enter_ LANCASTER, WARWICK, _the younger_ MORTIMER, _and
                 others.  Alarums within._

_Lan._ I wonder how he scap'd.
_Y. Mor._ Who's this? the queen!
_Q. Isab._ Ay, Mortimer, the miserable queen,
   Whose pining heart her inward sighs have blasted,
   And body with continual mourning wasted:
   These hands are tir'd with haling of my lord
   From Gaveston, from wicked Gaveston;
   And all in vain; for, when I speak him fair,
   He turns away, and smiles upon his minion.
_Y. Mor._ Cease to lament, and tell us where's the king?
_Q. Isab._ What would you with the king? is't him you seek?
_Lan._ No, madam, but that cursed Gaveston:
   Far be it from the thought of Lancaster
   To offer violence to his sovereign!
   We would but rid the realm of Gaveston:
   Tell us where he remains, and he shall die.
_Q. Isab._ He's gone by water unto Scarborough:
   Pursue him quickly, and he cannot scape;
   The king hath left him, and his train is small.
_War._ Forslow no time, sweet Lancaster; let's march.
_Y. Mor._ How comes it that the king and he is parted?
_Q. Isab._ That thus your army, going several ways,
   Might be of lesser force, and with the power
   That he intendeth presently to raise,
   Be easily suppress'd: therefore be gone.
_Y. Mor._ Here in the river rides a Flemish hoy:
   Let's all aboard, and follow him amain.
_Lan._ The wind that bears him hence will fill our sails;
   Come, come, aboard! 'tis but an hour's sailing.
_Y. Mor._ Madam, stay you within this castle here.
_Q. Isab._ No, Mortimer; I'll to my lord the king.
_Y. Mor._ Nay, rather sail with us to Scarborough.
_Q. Isab._ You know the king is so suspicious
   As, if he hear I have but talk'd with you,
   Mine honour will be call'd in question;
   And therefore, gentle Mortimer, be gone.
_Y. Mor._ Madam, I cannot stay to answer you:
   But think of Mortimer as he deserves.
                                     [_Exeunt all except Queen Isabella._
_Q. Isab._ So well hast thou deserv'd, sweet Mortimer,
   As Isabel could live with thee for ever.
   In vain I look for love at Edward's hand,
   Whose eyes are fix'd on none but Gaveston.
   Yet once more I'll importune him with prayer:
   If he be strange, and not regard my words,
   My son and I will over into France,
   And to the king my brother there complain
   How Gaveston hath robb'd me of his love:
   But yet, I hope, my sorrows will have end,
   And Gaveston this blessed day be slain.                       [_Exit._

                   _Enter_ GAVESTON, _pursued._

_Gav._ Yet, lusty lords, I have escap'd your hands,
   Your threats, your 'larums, and your hot pursuits;
   And, though divorced from King Edward's eyes,
   Yet liveth Pierce of Gaveston unsurpris'd,
   Breathing in hope (malgrado all your beards,
   That muster rebels thus against your king)
   To see his royal sovereign once again.

_Enter_ WARWICK, LANCASTER, PEMBROKE, _the younger_
     MORTIMER, Soldiers, JAMES _and other_ Attendants _of_
     PENBROKE.

_War._ Upon him, soldiers! take away his weapons!
_Y. Mor._ Thou proud disturber of thy country's peace,
   Corrupter of thy king, cause of these broils,
   Base flatterer, yield! and, were it not for shame,
   Shame and dishonour to a soldier's name,
   Upon my weapon's point here shouldst thou fall,
   And welter in thy gore.
_Lan._ Monster of men,
   That, like the Greekish strumpet, train'd to arms
   And bloody wars so many valiant knights,
   Look for no other fortune, wretch, than death!
   King Edward is not here to buckler thee.
_War._ Lancaster, why talk'st thou to the slave?--
   Go, soldiers, take him hence; for, by my sword,
   His head shall off.--Gaveston, short warning
   Shall serve thy turn: it is our country's cause
   That here severely we will execute
   Upon thy person.--Hang him at a bough.
_Gav._ My lord,--
_War._ Soldiers, have him away.--
   But, for thou wert the favourite of a king,
   Thou shalt have so much honour at our hands.
_Gav._ I thank you all, my lords: then I perceive
   That heading is one, and hanging is the other,
   And death is all.

                    _Enter_ ARUNDEL.

_Lan._ How now, my Lord of Arundel!
_Arun._ My lords, King Edward greets you all by me.
_War._ Arundel, say your message.
_Arun._ His majesty, hearing that you had taken Gaveston,
   Entreateth you by me, yet but he may
   See him before he dies; for why, he says,
   And sends you word, he knows that die he shall;
   And, if you gratify his grace so far,
   He will be mindful of the courtesy.
_War._ How now!
_Gav._ Renowmed Edward, how thy name
   Revives poor Gaveston!
_War._ No, it needeth not:
   Arundel, we will gratify the king
   In other matters; he must pardon us in this.--
   Soldiers, away with him!
_Gav._ Why, my Lord of Warwick,
   Will now these short delays beget my hopes?
   I know it, lords, it is life you aim at,
   Yet grant King Edward this.
_Y. Mor._ Shalt thou appoint
   What we shall grant?--Soldiers, away with him!--
   Thus we'll gratify the king;
   We'll send his head by thee; let him bestow
   His tears on that, for that is all he gets
   Of Gaveston, or else his senseless trunk.
_Lan._ Not so, my lord, lest he bestow more cost
   In burying him than he hath ever earn'd.
_Arun._ My lords, it is his majesty's request,
   And in the honour of a king he swears,
   He will but talk with him, and send him back.
_War._ When, can you tell?  Arundel, no; we wot
   He that the care of his realm remits,
   And drives his nobles to these exigents
   For Gaveston, will, if he seize him once,
   Violate any promise to possess him.
_Arun._ Then, if you will not trust his grace in keep,
   My lords, I will be pledge for his return.
_Y. Mor._ 'Tis honourable in thee to offer this;
   But, for we know thou art a noble gentleman,
   We will not wrong thee so,
   To make away a true man for a thief.
_Gav._ How mean'st thou, Mortimer? that is over-base.
_Y. Mor._ Away, base groom, robber of king's renown!
   Question with thy companions and mates.
_Pem._ My Lord Mortimer, and you, my lords, each one,
   To gratify the king's request therein,
   Touching the sending of this Gaveston,
   Because his majesty so earnestly
   Desires to see the man before his death,
   I will upon mine honour undertake
   To carry him, and bring him back again;
   Provided this, that you, my Lord of Arundel,
   Will join with me.
_War._ Pembroke, what wilt thou do?
   Cause yet more bloodshed? is it not enough
   That we have taken him, but must we now
   Leave him on "Had I wist," and let him go?
_Pem._ My lords, I will not over-woo your honours:
   But, if you dare trust Pembroke with the prisoner,
   Upon mine oath, I will return him back.
_Arun._ My Lord of Lancaster, what say you in this?
_Lan._ Why, I say, let him go on Pembroke's word.
_Pem._ And you, Lord Mortimer?
_Y. Mor._ How say you, my Lord of Warwick?
_War._ Nay, do your pleasures: I know how 'twill prove.
_Pem._ Then give him me.
_Gav._ Sweet sovereign, yet I come
   To see thee ere I die!
_War._ Yet not perhaps,
   If Warwick's wit and policy prevail.                         [_Aside._
_Y. Mor._ My Lord of Pembroke, we deliver him you:
   Return him on your honour.--Sound, away!
                   [_Exeunt all except Pembroke, Arundel, Gaveston, James
                       and other attendants of Pembroke._
_Pem._ My lord, you shall go with me:
   My house is not far hence; out of the way
   A little; but our men shall go along.
   We that have pretty wenches to our wives,
   Sir, must not come so near to balk their lips.
_Arun._ 'Tis very kindly spoke, my Lord of Pembroke:
   Your honour hath an adamant of power
   To draw a prince.
_Pem._ So, my lord.--Come hither, James:
   I do commit this Gaveston to thee;
   Be thou this night his keeper; in the morning
   We will discharge thee of thy charge: be gone.
_Gav._ Unhappy Gaveston, whither go'st thou now?
                     [_Exit with James and other Attendants of Pembroke._
_Horse-boy._ My lord, we'll quickly be at Cobham.              [_Exeunt._

  _Enter_ GAVESTON _mourning,_ JAMES _and other_ Attendants
                        _of_ PEMBROKE.

_Gav._ O treacherous Warwick, thus to wrong thy friend!
_James._ I see it is your life these arms pursue.
_Gav._ Weaponless must I fall, and die in bands?
   O, must this day be period of my life,
   Centre of all my bliss?  And ye be men,
   Speed to the king.

             _Enter_ WARWICK _and_ Soldiers.

_War._ My Lord of Pembroke's men,
   Strive you no longer: I will have that Gaveston.
_James._ Your lordship doth dishonour to yourself,
   And wrong our lord, your honourable friend.
_War._ No, James, it is my country's cause I follow.--
   Go, take the villain: soldiers, come away;
   We'll make quick work.--Commend me to your master,
   My friend, and tell him that I watch'd it well.--
   Come, let thy shadow parley with King Edward.
_Gav._ Treacherous earl, shall I not see the king?
_War._ The king of heaven perhaps, no other king.--
   Away!                    [_Exeunt Warwick and Soldiers with Gaveston._
_James._ Come, fellows: it booted not for us to strive:
   We will in haste go certify our lord.                       [_Exeunt._

_Enter_ KING EDWARD, _the younger_ SPENSER, BALDOCK, Noblemen
  _of the king's side, and_ Soldiers _with drums and fifes._

_K. Edw._ I long to hear an answer from the barons
   Touching my friend, my dearest Gaveston.
   Ah, Spenser, not the riches of my realm
   Can ransom him! ah, he is mark'd to die!
   I know the malice of the younger Mortimer;
   Warwick I know is rough, and Lancaster
   Inexorable; and I shall never see
   My lovely Pierce of Gaveston again:
   The barons overbear with me their pride.
_Y. Spen._ Were I King Edward, England's sovereign,
   Son to the lovely Eleanor of Spain,
   Great Edward Longshanks' issue, would I bear
   These braves, this rage, and suffer uncontroll'd
   These barons thus to beard me in my land,
   In mine own realm?  My lord, pardon my speech:
   Did you retain your father's magnanimity,
   Did you regard the honour of your name,
   You would not suffer thus your majesty
   Be counterbuff'd of your nobility.
   Strike off their heads, and let them preach on poles:
   No doubt, such lessons they will teach the rest,
   As by their preachments they will profit much,
   And learn obedience to their lawful king.
_K. Edw._ Yes, gentle Spenser, we have been too mild,
   Too kind to them; but now have drawn our sword,
   And, if they send me not my Gaveston,
   We'll steel it on their crest[s], and poll their tops.
_Bald._ This haught resolve becomes your majesty,
   Not to be tied to their affection,
   As though your highness were a school-boy still,
   And must be aw'd and govern'd like a child.

    _Enter the elder_ SPENSER _with his truncheon, and_
                       Soldiers.

_E. Spen._ Long live my sovereign, the noble Edward,
   In peace triumphant, fortunate in wars!
_K. Edw._ Welcome, old man: com'st thou in Edward's aid?
   Then tell thy prince of whence and what thou art.
_E. Spen._ Low, with a band of bow-men and of pikes,
   Brown bills and targeteers, four hundred strong,
   Sworn to defend King Edward's royal right,
   I come in person to your majesty,
   Spenser, the father of Hugh Spenser there,
   Bound to your highness everlastingly
   For favour done, in him, unto us all.
_K. Edw._ Thy father, Spenser?
_Y. Spen._ True, an it like your grace,
   That pours, in lieu of all your goodness shown,
   His life, my lord, before your princely feet.
_K. Edw._ Welcome ten thousand times, old man, again!
   Spenser, this love, this kindness to thy king,
   Argues thy noble mind and disposition.
   Spenser, I here create thee Earl of Wiltshire,
   And daily will enrich thee with our favour,
   That, as the sunshine, shall reflect o'er thee.
   Beside, the more to manifest our love,
   Because we hear Lord Bruce doth sell his land,
   And that the Mortimers are in hand withal,
   Thou shalt have crowns of us t'outbid the barons;
   And, Spenser, spare them not, lay it on.--
   Soldiers, a largess, and thrice-welcome all!
_Y. Spen._ My lord, here comes the queen.

     _Enter_ QUEEN ISABELLA, PRINCE EDWARD, _and_
                       LEVUNE.

_K. Edw._ Madam, what news?
_Q. Isab._ News of dishonour, lord, and discontent.
   Our friend Levune, faithful and full of trust,
   Informeth us, by letters and by words,
   That Lord Valois our brother, King of France,
   Because your highness hath been slack in homage,
   Hath seized Normandy into his hands:
   These be the letters, this the messenger.
_K. Edw._ Welcome, Levune.--Tush, Sib, if this be all,
   Valois and I will soon be friends again.--
   But to my Gaveston: shall I never see,
   Never behold thee now!--Madam, in this matter
   We will employ you and your little son;
   You shall go parley with the King of France.--
   Boy, see you bear you bravely to the king,
   And do your message with a majesty.
_P. Edw._ Commit not to my youth things of more weight
   Than fits a prince so young as I to bear;
   And fear not, lord and father,--heaven's great beams
   On Atlas' shoulder shall not lie more safe
   Than shall your charge committed to my trust.
_Q. Isab._ Ah, boy, this towardness makes thy mother fear
   Thou art not mark'd to many days on earth!
_K. Edw._ Madam, we will that you with speed be shipp'd,
   And this our son; Levune shall follow you
   With all the haste we can despatch him hence.
   Choose of our lords to bear you company;
   And go in peace; leave us in wars at home.
_Q. Isab._ Unnatural wars, where subjects brave their king:
   God end them once!--My lord, I take my leave,
   To make my preparation for France.         [_Exit with Prince Edward._

                   _Enter_ ARUNDEL.

_K. Edw._ What, Lord Arundel, dost thou come alone?
_Arun._ Yea, my good lord, for Gaveston is dead.
_K. Edw._ Ah, traitors, have they put my friend to death?
   Tell me, Arundel, died he ere thou cam'st,
   Or didst thou see my friend to take his death?
_Arun._ Neither, my lord; for, as he was surpris'd,
   Begirt with weapons and with enemies round,
   I did your highness' message to them all,
   Demanding him of them, entreating rather,
   And said, upon the honour of my name,
   That I would undertake to carry him
   Unto your highness, and to bring him back.
_K. Edw._ And, tell me, would the rebels deny me that?
_Y. Spen._ Proud recreants!
_K. Edw._ Yea, Spenser, traitors all!
_Arun._ In found them at the first inexorable;
   The Earl of Warwick would not bide the hearing,
   Mortimer hardly; Pembroke and Lancaster
   Spake least; and when they flatly had denied,
   Refusing to receive me pledge for him,
   The Earl of Pembroke mildly thus bespake;
   "My lord, because our sovereign sends for him,
   And promiseth he shall be safe return'd,
   I will this undertake, to have him hence,
   And see him re-deliver'd to your hands."
_K. Edw._ Well, and how fortunes [it] that he came not?
_Y. Spen._ Some treason or some villany was cause.
_Arun._ The Earl of Warwick seiz'd him on his way;
   For, being deliver'd unto Pembroke's men,
   Their lord rode home, thinking his prisoner safe;
   But, ere he came, Warwick in ambush lay,
   And bare him to his death; and in a trench
   Strake off his head, and march'd unto the camp.
_Y. Spen._ A bloody part, flatly 'gainst law of arms!
_K. Edw._ O, shall I speak, or shall I sigh and die!
_Y. Spen._ My lord, refer your vengeance to the sword
   Upon these barons; hearten up your men;
   Let them not unreveng'd murder your friends:
   Advance your standard, Edward, in the field,
   And march to fire them from their starting-holes.
_K. Edw._ [_kneeling._] By earth, the common mother of us all,
   By heaven, and all the moving orbs thereof,
   By this right hand, and by my father's sword,
   And all the honours 'longing to my crown,
   I will have heads and lives for him as many
   As I have manors, castles, towns, and towers!--              [_Rises._
   Treacherous Warwick! traitorous Mortimer!
   If I be England's king, in lakes of gore
   Your headless trunks, your bodies will I trail,
   That you may drink your fill, and quaff in blood,
   And stain my royal standard with the same,
   That so my bloody colours may suggest
   Remembrance of revenge immortally
   On your accursed traitorous progeny,
   You villains that have slain my Gaveston!--
   And in this place of honour and of trust,
   Spenser, sweet Spenser, I adopt thee here;
   And merely of our love we do create thee
   Earl of Glocester and Lord Chamberlain,
   Despite of times, despite of enemies.
_Y. Spen._ My lord, here's a messenger from the barons
   Desires access unto your majesty.
_K. Edw._ Admit him near.

             _Enter_ Herald _with his coat of arms._

_Her._ Long live King Edward, England's lawful lord!
_K. Edw._ So wish not they, I wis, that sent thee hither:
   Thou com'st from Mortimer and his complices:
   A ranker rout of rebels never was.
   Well, say thy message.
_Her._ The barons, up in arms, by me salute
   Your highness with long life and happiness;
   And bid me say, as plainer to your grace,
   That if without effusion of blood
   You will this grief have ease and remedy,
   That from your princely person you remove
   This Spenser, as a putrifying branch
   That deads the royal vine, whose golden leaves
   Empale your princely head, your diadem;
   Whose brightness such pernicious upstarts dim,
   Say they, and lovingly advise your grace
   To cherish virtue and nobility,
   And have old servitors in high esteem,
   And shake off smooth dissembling flatterers:
   This granted, they, their honours, and their lives,
   Are to your highness vow'd and consecrate.
_Y. Spen._ Ah, traitors, will they still display their pride?
_K. Edw._ Away! tarry no answer, but be gone!--
   Rebels, will they appoint their sovereign
   His sports, his pleasures, and his company?--
   Yet, ere thou go, see how I do divorce      [_Embraces young Spenser._
   Spenser from thee.  Now get thee to thy lords,
   And tell them I will come to chastise them
   For murdering Gaveston: hie thee, get thee gone!
   Edward, with fire and sword, follows at thy heels.     [_Exit Herald._
   My lord[s], perceive you how these rebels swell?--
   Soldiers, good hearts! defend your sovereign's right,
   For, now, even now, we march to make them stoop.
   Away!

                      [_Exeunt. Alarums, excursions, a great fight, and a
                            retreat sounded, within._

   _Re-enter_ KING EDWARD, _the elder_ SPENSER, _the younger_
     SPENSER, BALDOCK, _and_ Noblemen _of the king's side._

_K. Edw._ Why do we sound retreat? upon them, lords!
   This day I shall your vengeance with my sword
   On those proud rebels that are up in arms,
   And do confront and countermand their king.
_Y. Spen._ I doubt it not, my lord; right will prevail.
_E. Spen._ 'Tis not amiss, my liege, for either part
   To breathe a while; our men, with sweat and dust
   All chok'd well near, begin to faint for heat;
   And this retire refresheth horse and man.
_Y. Spen._ Here come the rebels.

   _Enter the younger_ MORTIMER, LANCASTER, WARWICK,
                 PEMBROKE, _and others._

_Y. Mor._ Look, Lancaster, yonder is Edward
   Among his flatterers.
_Lan._And there let him be,
   Till he pay dearly for their company.
_War._ And shall, or Warwick's sword shall smite in vain.
_K. Edw._ What, rebels, do you shrink and sound retreat?
_Y. Mor._ No, Edward, no; thy flatterers faint and fly.
_Lan._ They'd best betimes forsake thee and their trains,
   For they'll betray thee, traitors as they are.
_Y. Spen._ Traitor on thy face, rebellious Lancaster!
_Pem._ Away, base upstart! brav'st thou nobles thus?
_E. Spen._ A noble attempt and honourable deed,
   Is it not, trow ye, to assemble aid
   And levy arms against your lawful king?
_K. Edw._ For which, ere long, their heads shall satisfy
   T' appease the wrath of their offended king.
_Y. Mor._ Then, Edward, thou wilt fight it to the last,
   And rather bathe thy sword in subjects' blood
   Than banish that pernicious company?
_K. Edw._ Ay, traitors all, rather than thus be brav'd,
   Make England's civil towns huge heaps of stones,
   And ploughs to go about our palace-gates.
_War._ A desperate and unnatural resolution!--
   Alarum to the fight!
   Saint George for England, and the barons' right!
_K. Edw._ Saint George for England, and King Edward's right!
                           [_Alarums.  Exeunt the two parties severally._

   _Enter_ KING EDWARD _and his followers, with the_ Barons
                     _and_ KENT _captive._

_K. Edw._ Now, lusty lords, now not by chance of war,
   But justice of the quarrel and the cause,
   Vail'd is your pride: methinks you hang the heads
   But we'll advance them, traitors: now 'tis time
   To be aveng'd on you for all your braves,
   And for the murder of my dearest friend,
   To whom right well you knew our soul was knit,
   Good Pierce of Gaveston, my sweet favourite:
   Ah, rebels, recreants, you made him away!
_Kent._ Brother, in regard of thee and of thy land,
   Did they remove that flatterer from thy throne.
_K. Edw._ So, sir, you have spoke: away, avoid our presence!
                                                            [_Exit Kent._
   Accursed wretches, was't in regard of us,
   When we had sent our messenger to request
   He might be spar'd to come to speak with us,
   And Pembroke undertook for his return,
   That thou, proud Warwick, watch'd the prisoner,
   Poor Pierce, and headed him 'gainst law of arms?
   For which thy head shall overlook the rest
   As much as thou in rage outwent'st the rest.
_War._ Tyrant, I scorn thy threats and menaces;
   It is but temporal that thou canst inflict.
_Lan._ The worst is death; and better die to live
   Than live in infamy under such a king.
_K. Edw._ Away with them, my lord of Winchester!
   These lusty leaders, Warwick and Lancaster,
   I charge you roundly, off with both their heads!
   Away!
_War._ Farewell, vain world!
_Lan._ Sweet Mortimer, farewell!
_Y. Mor._ England, unkind to thy nobility,
   Groan for this grief! behold how thou art maim'd!
_K. Edw._ Go, take that haughty Mortimer to the Tower;
   There see him safe bestow'd; and, for the rest,
   Do speedy execution on them all.
   Be gone!
_Y. Mor._ What, Mortimer, can ragged stony walls
   Immure thy virtue that aspires to heaven?
   No, Edward, England's scourge, it may not be;
   Mortimer's hope surmounts his fortune far.
                                       [_The captive Barons are led off._
_K. Edw._ Sound, drums and trumpets!  March with me, my friends.
   Edward this day hath crown'd him king anew.
                                 [_Exeunt all except the younger Spenser,
                                     Levune and Baldock._
_Y. Spen._ Levune, the trust that we repose in thee
   Begets the quiet of King Edward's land:
   Therefore be gone in haste, and with advice
   Bestow that treasure on the lords of France,
   That, therewith all enchanted, like the guard
   That suffer'd Jove to pass in showers of gold
   To Danaë, all aid may be denied
   To Isabel the queen, that now in France
   Makes friends, to cross the seas with her young son,
   And step into his father's regiment.
_Levune._ That's it these barons and the subtle queen
   Long levell'd at.
_Bal._ Yea, but, Levune, thou seest,
   These barons lay their heads on blocks together:
   What they intend, the hangman frustrates clean.
_Levune._ Have you no doubt, my lords, I'll clap so close
   Among the lords of France with England's gold,
   That Isabel shall make her plaints in vain,
   And France shall be obdurate with her tears.
_Y. Spen._ Then make for France amain; Levune, away!
   Proclaim King Edward's wars and victories.                  [_Exeunt._

                        _Enter_ KENT.

_Kent._ Fair blows the wind for France: blow, gentle gale,
   Till Edmund be arriv'd for England's good!
   Nature, yield to my country's cause in this!
   A brother? no, a butcher of thy friends!
   Proud Edward, dost thou banish me thy presence?
   But I'll to France, and cheer the wronged queen,
   And certify what Edward's looseness is.
   Unnatural king, to slaughter nobleman
   And cherish flatterers!  Mortimer, I stay
   Thy sweet escape.  Stand gracious, gloomy night,
   To his device!

          _Enter the younger_ MORTIMER _disguised._

_Y. Mor._ Holla! who walketh there?
   Is't you, my lord?
_Kent._ Mortimer, 'tis I.
   But hath thy portion wrought so happily?
_Y. Mor._ It hath, my lord: the warders all asleep,
   I thank them, gave me leave to pass in peace.
   But hath your grace got shipping unto France?
_Kent._ Fear it not.                                           [_Exeunt._

      _Enter_ QUEEN ISABELLA _and_ PRINCE EDWARD.

_Q. Isab._ Ah, boy, our friends do fail us all in France!
   The lords are cruel, and the king unkind.
   What shall we do?
_P. Edw._ Madam, return to England,
   And please my father well; and then a fig
   For all my uncle's friendship here in France!
   I warrant you, I'll win his highness quickly;
   'A loves me better than a thousand Spensers.
_Q. Isab._ Ah, boy, thou art deceiv'd, at least in this,
   To think that we can yet be tun'd together!
   No, no, we jar too far.--Unkind Valois!
   Unhappy Isabel, when France rejects,
   Whither, O, whither dost thou bend thy steps?

               _Enter_ SIR JOHN OF HAINAULT.

_Sir J._ Madam, what cheer?
_Q. Isab._ Ah, good Sir John of Hainault,
   Never so cheerless nor so far distrest!
_Sir J._ I hear, sweet lady, of the king's unkindness:
   But droop not, madam; noble minds contemn
   Despair.  Will your grace with me to Hainault,
   And there stay time's advantage with your son?--
   How say you, my lord! will you go with your friends,
   And shake off all our fortunes equally?
_P. Edw._ So pleaseth the queen my mother, me it likes:
   The king of England, not the court of France,
   Shall have me from my gracious mother's side,
   Till I be strong enough to break a staff;
   And then have at the proudest Spenser's head!
_Sir J._ Well said, my lord!
_Q. Isab._ O my sweet heart, how do I moan thy wrongs,
   Yet triumph in the hope of thee, my joy!--
   Ah, sweet Sir John, even to the utmost verge
   Of Europe, on the shore of Tanais,
   Will we with thee to Hainault--so we will:
   The marquis is a noble gentleman;
   His grace, I dare presume, will welcome me.--
   But who are these?

         _Enter_ KENT _and the younger_ MORTIMER.

_Kent._ Madam, long may you live,
   Much happier than your friends in England do!
_Q. Isab._ Lord Edmund and Lord Mortimer alive!
   Welcome to France! the news was here, my lord,
   That you were dead, or very near your death.
_Y. Mor._ Lady, the last was truest of the twain:
   But Mortimer, reserv'd for better hap,
   Hath shaken off the thraldom of the Tower,
   And lives t' advance your standard, good my lord.
_P. Edw._ How mean you, and the king my father lives?
   No, my Lord Mortimer, not I, I trow.
_Q. Isab._ Not, son! Why not?  I would it were no worse!--
   But, gentle lords, friendless we are in France.
_Y. Mor._ Monsieur Le Grand, a noble friend of yours,
   Told us, at our arrival, all the news,--
   How hard the nobles, how unkind the king
   Hath show'd himself: but, madam, right makes room
   Where weapons want; and, though a many friends
   Are made away, as Warwick, Lancaster,
   And others of our part and faction,
   Yet have we friends, assure your grace, in England,
   Would cast up caps, and clap their hands for joy,
   To see us there, appointed for our foes.
_Kent._ Would all were well, and Edward well reclaim'd,
   For England's honour, peace, and quietness!
_Y. Mor._ But by the sword, my lord, 't must be deserv'd:
   The king will ne'er forsake his flatterers.
_Sir J._ My lords of England, sith th' ungentle king
   Of France refuseth to give aid of arms
   To this distressed queen, his sister, here,
   Go you with her to Hainault: doubt ye not
   We will find comfort, money, men, and friends,
   Ere long to bid the English king a base.--
   How say'st, young prince, what think you of the match?
_P. Edw._ I think King Edward will outrun us all.
_Q. Isab._ Nay, son, not so; and you must not discourage
   Your friends that are so forward in your aid.
_Kent._ Sir John of Hainault, pardon us, I pray:
   These comforts that you give our woful queen
   Bind us in kindness all at your command.
_Q. Isab._ Yea, gentle brother:--and the God of heaven
   Prosper your happy motion, good Sir John!
_Y. Mor._ This noble gentleman, forward in arms,
   Was born, I see, to be our anchor-hold.--
   Sir John of Hainault, be it thy renown,
   That England's queen and nobles in distress
   Have been by thee restor'd and comforted.
_Sir J._ Madam, along; and you, my lord[s], with me,
   That England's peers may Hainault's welcome see.            [_Exeunt._

   _Enter_ KING EDWARD, ARUNDEL, _the elder_ SPENSER, _the
               younger_ SPENSER, _and others._

_K. Edw._ Thus, after many threats of wrathful war,
   Triumpheth England's Edward with his friends,
   And triumph Edward with his friends uncontroll'd!--
   My Lord of Glocester, do you hear the news?
_Y. Spen._ What news, my lord?
_K. Edw._ Why, man, they say there is great execution
   Done through the realm.--My Lord of Arundel,
   You have the note, have you not?
_Arun._From the Lieutenant of the Tower, my lord.
_K. Edw._ I pray, let us see it.          [_Takes the note from Arundel._
   --What have we there?--
   Read it, Spenser.
                             [_Gives the note to young Spenser, who reads
                                 their names._
   Why, so: they bark'd apace a month ago;
   Now, on my life, they'll neither bark nor bite.
   Now, sirs, the news from France?  Glocester, I trow,
   The lords of France love England's gold so well
   As Isabella gets no aid from thence.
   What now remains? have you proclaim'd, my lord,
   Reward for them can bring in Mortimer?
_Y. Spen._ My lord, we have; and, if he be in England,
   'A will be had ere long, I doubt it not.
_K. Edw._ If, dost thou say?  Spenser, as true as death,
   He is in England's ground: our port-masters
   Are not so careless of their king's command.

                  _Enter a_ Messenger.

   How now! what news with thee? from whence come these?
_Mess._ Letters, my lord, and tidings forth of France:
   To you, my Lord of Glocester, from Levune.
                                       [_Gives letters to young Spenser._
_K. Edw._ Read.
_Y. Spen._ [reading.] _My duty to your honour promised, etc., I
   have, according to instructions in that behalf, dealt with the
   King of France and his lords, and effected that the queen, all
   discontented and discomforted, is gone: whither, if you ask,
   with Sir John of Hainault, brother to the marquis, into
   Flanders.  With them are gone Lord Edmund and the Lord
   Mortimer, having in their company divers of your nation,
   and others; and, as constant report goeth, they intend to
   give King Edward battle in England, sooner than he can
   look for them.  This is all the news of import.
                           Your honour's in all service, Levune._
_K. Edw._ Ah, villains, hath that Mortimer escap'd?
   With him is Edmund gone associate?
   And will Sir John of Hainault lead the round?
   Welcome, o' God's name, madam, and your son!
   England shall welcome you and all your rout.
   Gallop apace, bright Phbus, through the sky;
   And, dusky Night, in rusty iron car,
   Between you both shorten the time, I pray,
   That I may see that most desired day,
   When we may meet these traitors in the field!
   Ah, nothing grieves me, but my little boy
   Is thus misled to countenance their ills!
   Come, friends, to Bristow, there to make us strong:
   And, winds, as equal be to bring them in,
   As you injurious were to bear them forth!                   [_Exeunt._

   _Enter_ QUEEN ISABELLA, PRINCE EDWARD, KENT, _the
     younger_ MORTIMER, _and_ SIR JOHN OF HAINAULT.

_Q. Isab._ Now, lords, our loving friends and countrymen,
   Welcome to England all, with prosperous winds!
   Our kindest friends in Belgia have we left,
   To cope with friends at home; a heavy case
   When force to force is knit, and sword and glaive
   In civil broils make kin and countrymen
   Slaughter themselves in others, and their sides
   With their own weapons gor'd!  But what's the help?
   Misgovern'd kings are cause of all this wreck;
   And, Edward, thou art one among them all,
   Whose looseness hath betray'd thy land to spoil,
   Who made the channel overflow with blood
   Of thine own people: patron shouldst thou be;
   But thou--
_Y. Mor._ Nay, madam, if you be a warrior,
   You must not grow so passionate in speeches.--
   Lords, sith that we are, by sufferance of heaven,
   Arriv'd and armed in this prince's right,
   Here for our country's cause swear we to him
   All homage, fealty, and forwardness;
   And for the open wrongs and injuries
   Edward hath done to us, his queen, and land,
   We come in arms to wreck it with the sword;
   That England's queen in peace may repossess
   Her dignities and honours; and withal
   We may remove these flatterers from the king
   That havock England's wealth and treasury.
_Sir J._ Sound trumpets, my lord, and forward let us march.
   Edward will think we come to flatter him.
_Kent._ I would he never had been flatter'd more!              [_Exeunt._

_Enter_ KING EDWARD, BALDOCK, _and the younger_ SPENSER.

_Y. Spen._ Fly, fly, my lord! the queen is overstrong;
   Her friends do multiply, and yours do fail.
   Shape we our course to Ireland, there to breathe.
_K. Edw._ What, was I born to fly and run away,
   And leave the Mortimers conquerors behind?
   Give me my horse, and let's reinforce our troops.
   And in this bed of honour die with fame.
_Bald._ O, no, my lord! this princely resolution
   Fits not the time: away! we are pursu'd.                    [_Exeunt._

          _Enter_ KENT, _with a sword and target._

_Kent._ This way he fled; but I am come too late.
   Edward, alas, my heart relents for thee!
   Proud traitor, Mortimer, why dost thou chase
   Thy lawful king, thy sovereign, with thy sword?
   Vile wretch, and why hast thou, of all unkind,
   Borne arms against thy brother and thy king?
   Rain showers of vengeance on my cursed head,
   Thou God, to whom in justice it belongs
   To punish this unnatural revolt!
   Edward, this Mortimer aims at thy life:
   O, fly him, then!  But, Edmund, calm this rage;
   Dissemble, or thou diest; for Mortimer
   And Isabel do kiss, while they conspire:
   And yet she bears a face of love, forsooth:
   Fie on that love that hatcheth death and hate!
   Edmund, away! Bristow to Longshanks' blood
   Is false; be not found single for suspect:
   Proud Mortimer pries near into thy walks.

  _Enter_ QUEEN ISABELLA, PRINCE EDWARD, _the younger_
       MORTIMER, _and_ SIR JOHN JOHN OF HAINAULT.

_Q. Isab._ Successful battle gives the God of kings
   To them that fight in right, and fear in wrath,
   Since, then, successfully we have prevail'd,
   Thanked be heaven's great architect, and you!
   Ere farther we proceed, my noble lords,
   We here create our well-beloved son,
   Of love and care unto his royal person,
   Lord Warden of the realm; and, sith the Fates
   Have made his father so infortunate,
   Deal you, my lords, in this, my loving lords,
   As to your wisdoms fittest seems in all.
_Kent._ Madam, without offence if I may ask
   How will you deal with Edward in his fall?
_P. Edw._ Tell me, good uncle, what Edward do you mean?
_Kent._ Nephew, your father; I dare not call him king.
_Y. Mor._ My Lord of Kent, what needs these questions?
   'Tis not in her controlment nor in ours;
   But as the realm and parliament shall please,
   So shall your brother be disposed of.--
   I like not this relenting mood in Edmund:
   Madam, 'tis good to look to him betimes.        [_Aside to the Queen._
_Q. Isab._ My lord, the Mayor of Bristow knows our mind.
_Y. Mor._ Yea, madam; and they scape not easily
   That fled the field.
_Q. Isab._ Baldock is with the king:
   A goodly chancellor, is he not, my lord?
_Sir J._ So are the Spensers, the father and the son.
_Y. Mor._ This Edward is the ruin of the realm.

  _Enter_ RICE AP HOWEL _with the elder_ SPENSER _prisoner,
                      and_ Attendants.

_Rice._ God save Queen Isabel and her princely son!
   Madam, the Mayor and citizens of Bristow,
   In sign of love and duty to this presence,
   Present by me this traitor to the state,
   Spenser, the father to that wanton Spenser,
   That, like the lawless Catiline of Rome,
   Revell'd in England's wealth and treasury.
_Isab._ We thank you all.
_Y. Mor._ Your loving care in this
   Deserveth princely favours and rewards.
   But where's the king and the other Spenser fled?
_Rice._ Spenser the son, created Earl of Glocester,
   Is with that smooth-tongu'd scholar Baldock gone,
   And shipp'd but late for Ireland with the king.
_Y. Mor._ Some whirlwind fetch them back, or sink them all!--   [_Aside._
   They shall be started thence, I doubt it not.
_P. Edw._ Shall I not see the king my father yet?
_Kent._ Unhappy Edward, chas'd from England's bounds!           [_Aside._
_Sir J._ Madam, what resteth? why stand you in a muse?
_Q. Isab._ I rue my lord's ill-fortune: but, alas,
   Care of my country call'd me to this war!
_Y. Mor._ Madam, have done with care and sad complaint:
   Your king hath wrong'd your country and himself,
   And we must seek to right it as we may.--
   Meanwhile have hence this rebel to the block.
_E. Spen._ Rebel is he that fights against the prince:
   So fought not they that fought in Edward's right.
_Y. Mor._ Take him away; he prates.
                             [_Exeunt Attendants with the elder Spenser._
                                     You, Rice ap Howel,
   Shall do good service to her majesty,
   Being of countenance in your country here,
   To follow these rebellious runagates.--
   We in mean while, madam, must take advice.
   How Baldock, Spenser, and their complices,
   May in their fall be follow'd to their end.                 [_Exeunt._

   _Enter the_ Abbot, Monks, KING EDWARD, _the younger_
   SPENSER, _and_ BALDOCK (_the three latter disguised_).

_Abbot._ Have you no doubt, my lord; have you no fear:
   As silent and as careful we will be
   To keep your royal person safe with us,
   Free from suspect, and fell invasion
   Of such as have your majesty in chase,
   Yourself, and those your chosen company,
   As danger of this stormy time requires.
_K. Edw._ Father, thy face should harbour no deceit.
   O, hadst thou ever been a king, thy heart,
   Pierc'd deeply with sense of my distress,
   Could not but take compassion of my state!
   Stately and proud in riches and in train,
   Whilom I was, powerful and full of pomp:
   But what is he whom rule and empery
   Have not in life or death made miserable?--
   Come, Spenser,--come, Baldock,--come, sit down by me;
   Make trial now of that philosophy
   That in our famous nurseries of arts
   Thou suck'dst from Plato and from Aristotle.--
   Father, this life contemplative is heaven:
   O, that I might this life in quiet lead!
   But we, alas, are chas'd!--and you, my friends,
   Your lives and my dishonour they pursue.--
   Yet, gentle monks, for treasure, gold, nor fee,
   Do you betray us and our company.
_First Monk._ Your grace may sit secure, if none but we
   Do wot of your abode.
_Y. Spen._ Not one alive: but shrewdly I suspect
   A gloomy fellow in a mead below;
   'A gave a long look after us, my lord;
   And all the land, I know, is up in arms,
   Arms that pursue our lives with deadly hate.
_Bald._ We were embark'd for Ireland; wretched we,
   With awkward winds and with sore tempests driven,
   To fall on shore, and here to pine in fear
   Of Mortimer and his confederates!
_K. Edw._ Mortimer! who talks of Mortimer?
   Who wounds me with the name of Mortimer,
   That bloody man?--Good father, on thy lap
   Lay I this head, laden with mickle care.
   O, might I never ope these eyes again,
   Never again lift up this drooping head,
   O, never more lift up this dying heart!
_Y. Spen._ Look up, my lord.--Baldock, this drowsiness
   Betides no good; here even we are betray'd.

   _Enter, with Welsh hooks,_ RICE AP HOWEL, _a_ Mower,
                    _and_ LEICESTER.

_Mow._ Upon my life, these be the men ye seek.
_Rice._ Fellow, enough.--My lord, I pray, be short;
   A fair commission warrants what we do.
_Leices._ The queen's commission, urg'd by Mortimer:
   What cannot gallant Mortimer with the queen?--
   Alas, see where he sits, and hopes unseen
   T'escape their hands that seek to reave his life!
   Too true it is, _Quem dies vidit veniens superbum,
   Hunc dies vidit fugiens jacentem._
   But, Leicester, leave to grow so passionate.--
   Spenser and Baldock, by no other names,
   I arrest you of high treason here.
   Stand not on titles, but obey th' arrest:
   'Tis in the name of Isabel the queen.--
   My lord, why droop you thus?
_K. Edw._ O day, the last of all my bliss on earth!
   Centre of all misfortune!  O my stars,
   Why do you lour unkindly on a king?
   Comes Leicester, then, in Isabella's name,
   To take my life, my company from me?
   Here, man, rip up this panting breast of mine,
   And take my heart in rescue of my friends.
_Rice._ Away with them!
_Y. Spen._ It may become thee yet
   To let us take our farewell of his grace.
_Abbott._ My heart with pity earns to see this sight;
   A king to bear these words and proud commands!               [_Aside._
_K. Edw._ Spenser, ah, sweet Spenser, thus, then, must we part?
_Y. Spen._ We must, my lord; so will the angry heavens.
_K. Edw._ Nay, so will hell and cruel Mortimer:
   The gentle heavens have not to do in this.
_Bald._ My lord, it is in vain to grieve or storm.
   Here humbly of your grace we take our leaves:
   Our lots are cast; I fear me, so is thine.
_K. Edw._ In heaven we may, in earth ne'er shall we meet:--
   And, Leicester, say, what shall become of us?
_Leices._ Your majesty must go to Killingworth.
_K. Edw._ Must! it is somewhat hard when kings must go.
_Leices._ Here is a litter ready for your grace,
   That waits your pleasure, and the day grows old.
_Rice._ As good be gone, as stay and be benighted.
_K. Edw._ A litter hast thou? lay me in a hearse,
   And to the gates of hell convey me hence;
   Let Pluto's bells ring out my fatal knell,
   And hags howl for my death at Charon's shore;
   For friends hath Edward none but these,
   And these must die under a tyrant's sword.
_Rice._ My lord, be going: care not for these;
   For we shall see them shorter by the heads.
_K. Edw._ Well, that shall be shall be: part we must;
   Sweet Spenser, gentle Baldock, part we must.--
   Hence, feigned weeds! unfeigned are my woes.--
                                            [_Throwing off his disguise._
   Father, farewell.--Leicester, thou stay'st for me;
   And go I must.--Life, farewell, with my friends!
                                     [_Exeunt King Edward and Leicester._
_Y. Spen._ O, is he gone?  is noble Edward gone?
   Parted from hence, never to see us more!
   Rend, sphere of heaven! and, fire, forsake thy orb!
   Earth, melt to air! gone is my sovereign,
   Gone, gone, alas, never to make return!
_Bald._ Spenser, I see our souls are fleeting hence;
   We are depriv'd the sunshine of our life.
   Make for a new life, man; throw up thy eyes
   And heart and hand to heaven's immortal throne;
   Pay nature's debt with cheerful countenance;
   Reduce we all our lessons unto this,--
   To die, sweet Spenser, therefore live we all;
   Spenser, all live to die, and rise to fall.
_Rice._ Come, come, keep these preachments till you come to
   the place appointed.  You, and such as you are, have
   made wise work in England.  Will your lordships away?
_Mow._ Your lordship I trust will remember me?
_Rice._ Remember thee, fellow! what else?  Follow me to
   the town.                                                   [_Exeunt._

    _Enter_ KING EDWARD, LEICESTER, _the_ BISHOP OF
               WINCHESTER, _and_ TRUSSEL.

_Leices._ Be patient, good my lord, cease to lament;
   Imagine Killingworth Castle were your court,
   And that you lay for pleasure here a space,
   Not of compulsion or necessity.
_K. Edw._ Leicester, if gentle words might comfort me,
   Thy speeches long ago had eas'd my sorrows,
   For kind and loving hast thou always been.
   The griefs of private men are soon allay'd;
   But not of kings.  The forest deer, being struck,
   Runs to an herb that closeth up the wounds:
   But when the imperial lion's flesh is gor'd,
   He rends and tears it with his wrathful paw,
   [And], highly scorning that the lowly earth
   Should drink his blood, mounts up to the air:
   And so it fares with me, whose dauntless mind
   Th' ambitious Mortimer would seek to curb,
   And that unnatural queen, false Isabel,
   That thus hath pent and mew'd me in a prison
   For such outrageous passions cloy my soul,
   As with the wings of rancour and disdain
   Full oft[ten] am I soaring up to heaven,
   To plain me to the gods against them both.
   But when I call to mind I am a king,
   Methinks I should revenge me of my wrongs,
   That Mortimer and Isabel have done.
   But what are kings, when regiment is gone,
   But perfect shadows in a sunshine day?
   My nobles rule; I bear the name of king,
   I wear the crown; but am controll'd by them,
   By Mortimer, and my unconstant queen,
   Who spots my nuptial bed with infamy;
   Whilst I am lodg'd within this cave of care,
   Where sorrow at my elbow still attends,
   To company my heart with sad laments,
   That bleeds within me for this strange exchange.
   But tell me, must I now resign my crown,
   To make usurping Mortimer a king?
_Bish. of Win._ Your grace mistakes; it is for England's good,
   And princely Edward's right, we crave the crown.
_K. Edw._ No, 'tis for Mortimer, not Edward's head
   For he's a lamb, emcompassed by wolves,
   Which in a moment will abridge his life.
   But, if proud Mortimer do wear this crown,
   Heavens turn it to a blaze of quenchless fire!
   Or, like the snaky wreath of Tisiphon,
   Engirt the temples of his hateful head!
   So shall not England's vine be perished,
   But Edward's name survive, though Edward dies.
_Leices._ My lord, why waste you thus the time away?
   They stay your answer: will you yield your crown?
_K. Edw._ Ah, Leicester, weigh how hardly I can brook
   To lose my crown and kingdom without cause;
   To give ambitious Mortimer my right,
   That, like a mountain, overwhelms my bliss;
   In which extreme my mind here murder'd is!
   But that the heavens appoint I must obey.--
   Here, take my crown; the life of Edward too:  [_Taking off the crown._
   Two kings in England cannot reign at once.
   But stay a while: let me be king till night,
   That I may gaze upon this glittering crown;
   So shall my eyes receive their last content,
   My head, the latest honour due to it,
   And jointly both yield up their wished right.
   Continue ever, thou celestial sun;
   Let never silent night possess this clime;
   Stand still, you watches of the element;
   All times and seasons, rest you at a stay,
   That Edward may be still fair England's king!
   But day's bright beams doth vanish fast away,
   And needs I must resign my wished crown.
   Inhuman creatures, nurs'd with tiger's milk,
   Why gape you for your sovereign's overthrow?
   My diadem, I mean, and guiltless life.
   See, monsters, see! I'll wear my crown again.
                                                 [_Putting on the crown._
   What, fear you not the fury of your king?--
   But, hapless Edward, thou art fondly led;
   They pass not for thy frowns as late they did,
   But seek to make a new-elected king;
   Which fills my mind with strange despairing thoughts,
   Which thoughts are martyred with endless torments;
   And in this torment comfort find I none,
   But that I feel the crown upon my head;
   And therefore let me wear it yet a while.
_Trus._ My, lord, the parliament must have present news;
   And therefore say, will you resign or no?
                                                      [_The king rageth._
_K. Edw._ I'll not resign, but, whilst I live, [be king].
   Traitors, be gone, and join you with Mortimer.
   Elect, conspire, install, do what you will:
   Their blood and yours shall seal these treacheries.
_Bish. of Win._ This answer we'll return; and so, farewell.
                                                   [_Going with Trussel._
_Leices._ Call them again, my lord, and speak them fair;
   For, if they go, the prince shall lose his right.
_K. Edw._ Call thou them back; I have no power to speak.
_Leices._ My lord, the king is willing to resign.
_Bish. of Win._ If he be not, let him choose.
_K. Edw._ O, would I might! but heavens and earth conspire
   To make me miserable.  Here, receive my crown.
   Receive it? no, these innocent hands of mine
   Shall not be guilty of so foul a crime;
   He of you all that most desires my blood,
   And will be call'd the murderer of a king,
   Take it.  What, are you mov'd? pity you me?
   Then send for unrelenting Mortimer,
   And Isabel, whose eyes being turn'd to steel
   Will sooner sparkle fire than shed a tear.
   Yet stay; for, rather than I'll look on them,
   Here, here! [_Gives the crown._]--Now, sweet God of heaven,
   Make me despise this transitory pomp,
   And sit fot aye enthronised in heaven!
   Come, death, and with thy fingers close my eyes,
   Or, if I live, let me forget myself!
_Bish. of Win._ My lord,--
_K. Edw._ Call me not lord; away, out of my sight!
   Ah, pardon me! grief makes me lunatic.
   Let not that Mortimer protect my son;
   More safety there is in a tiger's jaws
   Than his embracements.  Bear this to the queen,
   Wet with my tears, and dried again with sighs:
                                                 [_Gives a handkerchief._
   If with the sight thereof she be not mov'd,
   Return it back, and dip it in my blood.
   Commend me to my son, and bid him rule
   Better than I: yet how have I transgress'd,
   Unless it be with too much clemency?
_Trus._ And thus, most humbly do we take our leave.
_K. Edw._ Farewell.
                   [_Exeunt the Bishop of Winchester and Trussel with the
                      crown._
                     I know the next news that they bring
   Will be my death; and welcome shall it be:
   To wretched men death is felicity.
_Leices._ Another post! what news brings he?

   _Enter_ BERKELEY, _who gives a paper to_ LEICESTER.

_K. Edw._ Such news as I expect.--Come, Berkeley, come,
   And tell thy message to my naked breast.
_Berk._ My lord, think not a thought so villanous
   Can harbour in a man of noble birth.
   To do your highness service and devoir,
   And save you from your foes, Berkeley would die.
_Leices._ My lord, the council of the queen command
   That I resign my charge.
_K. Edw._ And who must keep me now?  Must you, my lord?
_Berk._ Ay, my most gracious lord; so 'tis decreed.
_K. Edw._ [_Taking the paper._]  By Mortimer, whose name is written here!
   Well may I rent his name that rends my heart.             [_Tears it._
   This poor revenge hath something eas'd my mind:
   So may his limbs be torn as is this paper!
   Hear me, immortal Jove, and grant it too!
_Berk._ Your grace must hence with me to Berkeley straight.
_K. Edw._ Whither you will: all places are alike,
   And every earth is fit for burial.
_Leices._ Favour him, my lord, as much as lieth in you.
_Berk._ Even so betide my soul as I use him!
_K. Edw._ Mine enemy hath pitied my estate,
   And that's the cause that I am now remov'd.
_Berk._ And thinks your grace that Berkeley will be cruel?
_K. Edw._ I know not; but of this am I assur'd,
   That death ends all, and I can die but once.--
   Leicester, farewell.
_Leices._ Not yet, my lord; I'll bear you on your way.         [_Exeunt._

   _Enter_ QUEEN ISABELLA _and the younger_ MORTIMER.

_Y. Mor._ Fair Isabel, now have we our desire;
   The proud corrupters of the light-brain'd king
   Have done their homage to the lofty gallows,
   And he himself lies in captivity.
   Be rul'd by me, and we will rule the realm:
   In any case take heed of childish fear,
   For now we hold an old wolf by the ears,
   That, if he slip, will seize upon us both,
   And gripe the sorer, being grip'd himself.
   Think therefore, madam, that imports us much
   To erect your son with all the speed we may,
   And that I be protector over him:
   For our behoof, 'twill bear the greater sway
   Whenas a king's name shall be under-writ.
_Q. Isab._ Sweet Mortimer, the life of Isabel,
   Be thou persuaded that I love thee well;
   And therefore, so the prince my son be safe,
   Whom I esteem as dear as these mine eyes,
   Conclude against his father what thou wilt,
   And I myself will willingly subscribe.
_Y. Mor._ First would I hear news he were depos'd,
   And then let me alone to handle him.

                   _Enter_ Messenger.

   Letters! from whence?
_Mess._ From Killingworth, my lord?
_Q. Isab._ How fares my lord the king?
_Mess._ In health, madam, but full of pensiveness.
_Q. Isab._ Alas, poor soul, would I could ease his grief!

     _Enter the_ BISHOP OF WINCHESTER _with the crown._

   Thanks, gentle Winchester.--
                               Sirrah, be gone.        [_Exit Messenger._
_Bish. of Win._ The king hath willingly resign'd his crown.
_Q. Isab._ O, happy news! send for the prince my son.
_Bish. of Win._ Further, or this letter was seal'd, Lord Berkeley came,
   So that he now is gone from Killingworth;
   And we have heard that Edmund laid a plot
   To set his brother free; nor more but so.
   The Lord of Berkeley is so pitiful
   As Leicester that had charge of him before.
_Q. Isab._ Then let some other be his guardian.
_Y. Mor._ Let me alone; here is the privy-seal,--
                                                [_Exit the Bish. of Win._
   Who's there?  Call hither, Gurney and Matrevis.--
                                                 [_To Attendants within._
   To dash the heavy-headed Edmund's drift,
   Berkeley shall be discharg'd, the king remov'd,
   And none but we shall know where he lieth.
_Q. Isab._ But, Mortimer, as long as he survives,
   What safety rests for us or for my son?
_Y. Mor._ Speak, shall he presently be despatch'd and die?
_Q. Isab._ I would he were, so 'twere not by my means!

               _Enter_ MATREVIS _and_ GURNEY.

_Y. Mor._ Enough.--Matrevis, write a letter presently
   Unto the Lord of Berkeley from ourself,
   That he resign the king to thee and Gurney;
   And, when 'tis done, we will subscribe our name.
_Mat._ It shall be done, my lord.                              [_Writes._
_Y. Mor._ Gurney,--
_Gur._ My lord?
_Y. Mor._ As thou intend'st to rise by Mortimer,
   Who now makes Fortune's wheel turn as he please,
   Seek all the means thou canst to make him droop,
   And neither give him kind word nor good look.
_Gur._ I warrant you, my lord.
_Y. Mor._ And this above the rest: because we hear
   That Edmund casts to work his liberty,
   Remove him still from place to place by night,
   Till at the last he come to Killingworth,
   And then from thence to Berkeley back again;
   And by the way, to make him fret the more,
   Speak curstly to him; and in any case
   Let no man comfort him, if he chance to weep,
   But amplify his grief with bitter words.
_Mat._ Fear not, my lord; we'll do as you command.
_Y. Mor._ So, now away! post thitherwards amain.
_Q. Isab._ Whither goes this letter? to my lord the king?
   Commend me humbly to his majesty,
   And tell him that I labour all in vain
   To ease his grief and work his liberty;
   And bear him this as witness of my love.                [_Gives ring._
_Mat._ I will, madam.                                [_Exit with Gurney._
_Y. Mor._ Finely dissembled! do so still, sweet queen.
   Here comes the young prince with the Earl of Kent.
_Q. Isab._ Something he whispers in his childish ears.
_Y. Mor._ If he have such access unto the prince,
   Our plots and stratagems will soon be dash'd.
_Q. Isab._ Use Edmund friendly, as if all were well.

   _Enter_ PRINCE EDWARD, _and_ KENT _talking with him._

_Y. Mor._ How fares my honourable Lord of Kent?
_Kent._ In health, sweet Mortimer.--How fares your grace?
_Q. Isab._ Well, if my lord your brother were enlarg'd.
_Kent._ I hear of late he hath depos'd himself.
_Q. Isab._ The more my grief.
_Y. Mor._ And mine.
_Kent._ Ah, they do dissemble!                                  [_Aside._
_Q. Isab._ Sweet son, come hither; I must talk with thee.
_Y. Mor._ You, being his uncle and the next of blood,
   Do look to be protector o'er the prince.
_Kent._ Not I, my lord: who should protect the son,
   But she that gave him life?  I mean the queen.
_P. Edw._ Mother, persuade me not to wear the crown:
   Let him be king; I am too young to reign.
_Q. Isab._ But be content, seeing 'tis his highness' pleasure.
_P. Edw._ Let me but see him first, and then I will.
_Kent._ Ay, do, sweet nephew.
_Q. Isab._ Brother, you know it is impossible.
_P. Edw._ Why, is he dead?
_Q. Isab._ No, God forbid!
_Kent._ I would those words proceeded from your heart!
_Y. Mor._ Inconstant Edmund, dost thou favour him,
   That wast a cause of his imprisonment?
_Kent._ The more cause now have I to make amends.
_Y. Mor._ [_aside to_ Q. ISAB.]
   I tell thee, 'tis not meet that one so false
   Should come about the person of a prince.--
   My lord, he hath betray'd the king his brother,
   And therefore trust him not.
_P. Edw._ But he repents, and sorrows for it now.
_Q. Isab._ Come, son, and go with this gentle lord and me.
_P. Edw._ With you I will, but not with Mortimer.
_Y. Mor._ Why, youngling, 'sdain'st thou so of Mortimer?
   Then I will carry thee by force away.
_P. Edw._ Help, uncle Kent! Mortimer will wrong me.
_Q. Isab._ Brother Edmund, strive not; we are his friends;
   Isabel is nearer than the Earl of Kent.
_Kent._ Sister, Edward is my charge; redeem him.
_Q. Isab._ Edward is my son, and I will keep him.
_Kent._ Mortimer shall know that he hath wronged me.
   Hence will I haste to Killingworth Castle,
   And rescue aged Edward from his foes,
   To be reveng'd on Mortimer and thee.                         [_Aside._
                 [_Exeunt, on the one side, Queen Isabella, Prince Edward
                    and the younger Mortimer; on other other, Kent._

       _Enter_ MATREVIS, GURNEY, _and_ Soldiers, _with_
                         KING EDWARD.

_Mat._ My lord, be not pensive; we are your friends:
   Men are ordain'd to live in misery;
   Therefore, come; dalliance dangereth our lives.
_K. Edw._ Friends, whither must unhappy Edward go?
   Will hateful Mortimer appoint no rest?
   Must I be vexed like the nightly bird,
   Whose sight is loathsome to all winged fowls?
   When will the fury of his mind assuage?
   When will his heart be satisfied with blood?
   If mine will serve, unbowel straight this breast,
   And give my heart to Isabel and him:
   It is the chiefest mark they level at.
_Gur._Not so, my liege: the queen hath given this charge,
   To keep your grace in safety:
   Your passions make your dolours to increase.
_K. Edw._ This usage makes my misery increase.
   But can my air of life continue long,
   When all my senses are annoy'd with stench?
   Within a dungeon England's king is kept,
   Where I am starv'd for want of sustenance;
   My daily diet is heart-breaking sobs,
   That almost rent the closet of my heart:
   Thus lives old Edward not reliev'd by any,
   And so must die, though pitied by many.
   O, water, gentle friends, to cool my thirst,
   And clear my body from foul excrements!
_Mat._ Here's channel-water, as our charge is given:
   Sit down, for we'll be barbers to your grace.
_K. Edw._ Traitors, away! what, will you murder me,
   Of choke your sovereign with puddle-water?
_Gur._ No, but wash your face, and shave away your beard,
   Lest you be known, and so be rescued.
_Mat._ Why strive you thus? your labour is in vain.
_K. Edw._ The wren may strive against the lion's strength,
   But all in vain: so vainly do I strive
   To seek for mercy at a tyrant's hand.
                   [_They wash him with puddle-water, and shave his beard
                     away._
   Immortal powers, that know the painful cares
   That wait upon my poor distressed soul,
   O, level all your looks upon these daring men
   That wrong their liege and sovereign, England's king!
   O Gaveston, it is for thee that I am wrong'd!
   For me both thou and both the Spensers died;
   And for your sakes a thousand wrongs I'll take.
   The Spensers' ghosts, wherever they remain,
   Wish well to mine; then, tush, for them I'll die.
_Mat._ 'Twixt theirs and yours shall be no enmity.
   Come, come, away!  Now put the torches out:
   We'll enter in by darkness to Killingworth.
_Gur._ How now! who comes there?

                         _Enter_ KENT.

_Mat._ Guard the king sure: it is the Earl of Kent.
_K. Edw._ O gentle brother, help to rescue me!
_Mat._ Keep them asunder; thrust in the king.
_Kent._ Soldiers, let me but talk to him one word.
_Gur._ Lay hands upon the earl for his assault.
_Kent._ Lay down your weapons, traitors! yield the king!
_Mat._ Edmund, yield thou thyself, or thou shalt die.
_Kent._ Base villains, wherefore do you gripe me thus?
_Gur._ Bind him, and so convey him to the court.
_Kent._ Where is the court but here? here is the king
   And I will visit him: why stay you me?
_Mat._ The court is where Lord Mortimer remains:
   Thither shall your honour go; and so, farewell.
                          [_Exeunt Matrevis and Gurney with King Edward._
_Kent._ O, miserable is that common-weal,
   Where lords keep courts, and kings are lock'd in prison!
_First Sold._ Wherefore stay we? on, sirs, to the court!
_Kent._ Ay, lead me whither you will, even to my death,
   Seeing that my brother cannot be releas'd.                  [_Exeunt._

             _Enter the younger_ MORTIMER.

_Y. Mor._ The king must die, or Mortimer goes down;
   The commons now begin to pity him:
   Yet he that is the cause of Edward's death,
   Is sure to pay for it when his son's of age;
   And therefore will I do it cunningly.
   This letter, written by a friend of ours,
   Contains his death, yet bids then save his life;
                                                                [_Reads._
   _Edwardum occidere nolite timere, bonum est,
   Fear not to kill the king, 'tis good he die:_
   But read it thus, and that's another sense;
   _Edwardum occidere nolite, timere bonum est,
   Kill not the king, 'tis good to fear the worst._
   Unpointed as it is, thus shall it go.
   That, being dead, if it chance to be found,
   Matrevis and the rest may bear the blame,
   And we be quit that caus'd it to be done.
   Within this room is lock'd the messenger
   That shall convey it, and perform the rest;
   And, by a secret token that he bears,
   Shall he be murder'd when the deed is done.--
   Lightborn, come forth!

                    _Enter_ LIGHTBORN.

                           Art thou so resolute as thou wast?
_Light._ What else, my lord? and far more resolute.
_Y. Mor._ And hast thou cast how to accomplish it?
_Light._ Ay, ay; and none shall know which way he died.
_Y. Mor._ But at his looks, Lightborn, thou wilt relent.
_Light._ Relent! ha, ha! I use much to relent.
_Y. Mor._ Well, do it bravely, and be secret.
_Light._ You shall not need to give instructions;
   'Tis not the first time I have kill'd a man:
   I learn'd in Naples how to poison flowers;
   To strangle with a lawn thrust down the throat;
   To pierce the wind pipe with a needle's point;
   Or, whilst one is asleep, to take a quill,
   And blow a little powder in his ears;
   Or open his mouth, and pour quick-silver down.
   But yet I have a braver way than these.
_Y. Mor._ What's that?
_Light._ Nay, you shall pardon me; none shall know my tricks.
_Y. Mor._ I care not how it is, so it be not spied.
   Deliver this to Gurney and Matrevis:                  [_Gives letter._
   At every ten-mile end thou hast a horse:
   Take this [_Gives money_]: away, and never see me more!
_Light._ No?
_Y. Mor._ No; unless thou bring me news of Edward's death.
_Light._ That will I quickly do.  Farewell, my lord.             [_Exit._
_Y. Mor._ The prince I rule, the queen do I command,
   And with a lowly congé to the ground
   The proudest lords salute me as I pass;
   I seal, I cancel, I do what I will.
   Fear'd am I more than lov'd;--let me be fear'd,
   And, when I frown, make all the court look pale.
   I view the prince with Aristarchus' eyes,
   Whose looks were as a breeching to a boy.
   They thrust upon me the protectorship,
   And sue to me for that that I desire;
   While at the council-table, grave enough,
   And not unlike a bashful puritan,
   First I complain of imbecility,
   Saying it is _onus quam gravissimum;_
   Till, being interrupted by my friends,
   _Suscepi_ that _provinciam_, as they term it;
   And, to conclude, I am Protector now.
   Now all is sure: the queen and Mortimer
   Shall rule the realm, the king; and none rule us.
   Mine enemies will I plague, my friends advance;
   And what I list command who dare control?
   _Major sum quàm cui possit fortuna nocere:_
   And that this be the coronation-day,
   It pleaseth me and Isabel the queen.               [_Trumpets within._
   The trumpets sound; I must go take my place.

  _Enter_ KING EDWARD THE THIRD, QUEEN ISABELLA, _the_
    ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY, Champion, _and_ Nobles.

_Archb. of Cant._ Long live King Edward, by the grace of God
   King of England and Lord of Ireland!
_Cham._ If any Christian, Heathen, Turk, or Jew,
   Dares but affirm that Edward's not true king,
   And will avouch his saying with the sword,
   I am the Champion that will combat him.
_Y. Mor._ None comes: sound, trumpets!                       [_Trumpets._
_K. Edw. Third._ Champion, here's to thee.                [_Gives purse._
_Q. Isab._ Lord Mortimer, now take him to your charge.

            _Enter_ Soldiers _with_ KENT _prisoner._

_Y. Mor._ What traitor have we there with blades and bills?
_First Sold._ Edmund the Earl of Kent.
_K. Edw. Third._ What hath he done?
_First Sold._ 'A would have taken the king away perforce,
   As we were bringing him to Killingworth.
_Y. Mor._ Did you attempt his rescue, Edmund? speak.
_Kent._ Mortimer, I did: he is our king,
   And thou compell'st this prince to wear the crown.
_Y. Mor._ Strike off his head: he shall have martial law.
_Kent._ Strike off my head! base traitor, I defy thee!
_K. Edw. Third._ My lord, he is my uncle, and shall live.
_Y. Mor._ My lord, he is your enemy, and shall die.
_Kent._ Stay, villains!
_K. Edw. Third._ Sweet mother, if I cannot pardon him,
   Entreat my Lord Protector for his life.
_Q. Isab._ Son, be content: I dare not speak a word.
_K. Edw. Third._ Nor I; and yet methinks I should command:
   But, seeing I cannot, I'll entreat for him.--
   My lord, if you will let my uncle live,
   I will requite it when I come to age.
_Y. Mor._ 'Tis for your highness' good and for the realm's.--
   How often shall I bid you bear him hence?
_Kent._ Art thou king? must I die at thy command?
_Y. Mor._ At our command.--Once more, away with him!
_Kent._ Let me but stay and speak; I will not go:
   Either my brother or his son is king,
   And none of both them thirst for Edmund's blood:
   And therefore, soldiers, whither will you hale me?
                [_Soldiers hale Kent away, and carry him to be beheaded._
_K. Edw. Third._ What safety may I look for at his hands,
   If that my uncle shall be murder'd thus?
_Q. Isab._ Fear not, sweet boy; I'll guard thee from thy foes:
   Had Edmund liv'd, he would have sought thy death.
   Come, son, we'll ride a-hunting in the park.
_K. Edw. Third._ And shall my uncle Edmund ride with us?
_Q. Isab._ He is a traitor; think not on him: come.            [_Exeunt._

               _Enter_ MATREVIS _and_ GURNEY.

_Mat._ Gurney, I wonder the king dies not,
   Being in a vault up to the knees in water,
   To which the channels of the castle run,
   From whence a damp continually ariseth,
   That were enough to poison any man,
   Much more a king, brought up so tenderly.
_Gur._ And so do I, Matrevis: yesternight
   I open'd but the door to throw him meat,
   And I was almost stifled with the savour.
_Mat._ He hath a body able to endure
   More than we can inflict: and therefore now
   Let us assail his mind another while.
_Gur._ Send for him out thence, and I will anger him.
_Mat._ But stay; who's this?

                 _Enter_ LIGHTBORN.

_Light._ My Lord Protector greets you.                   [_Gives letter._
_Gur._ What's there?  I know not how to construe it.
_Mat._ Gurney, it was left unpointed for the nonce;
   _Edwardum occidere nolite timere,_
   That's his meaning.
_Light._ Know you this token?  I must have the king.      [_Gives token._
_Mat._ Ay, stay a while; thou shalt have answer straight.--
   This villain's sent to make away the king.
_Gur._ I thought as much.
_Mat._ And, when the murder's done,
   See how he must be handled for his labour,--
   _Pereat iste!_  Let him have the king;
   What else?--Here is the keys, this is the lake:
   Do as you are commanded by my lord.
_Light._ I know what I must do.  Get you away:
   Yet be not far off; I shall need your help:
   See that in the next room I have a fire,
   And get me a spit, and let it be red-hot.
_Mat._ Very well.
_Gur._ Need you anything besides?
_Light._ What else? a table and a feather-bed.
_Gur._ That's all?
_Light._ Ay, ay: so, when I call you, bring it in.
_Mat._ Fear not thou that.
_Gur._ Here's a light to go into the dungeon.
                [_Gives light to Lightborn, and then exit with Matrevis._
_Light._ So, now.
   Must I about this gear: ne'er was there any
   So finely handled as this king shall be.--
   Foh, here's a place indeed with all my heart!
_K. Edw._ Who's there? what light is that? wherefore com'st thou?
_Light._ To comfort you, and bring you joyful news.
_K. Edw._ Small comfort finds poor Edward in thy looks:
   Villain, I know thou com'st to murder me.
_Light._ To murder you, my most gracious lord?
   Far is it from my heart to do you harm.
   The queen sent me to see how you were us'd,
   For she relents at this your misery:
   And what eye can refrain from shedding tears,
   To see a king in this most piteous state?
_K. Edw._ Weep'st thou already? list a while to me,
   And then thy heart, were it as Gurney's is,
   Or as Matrevis', hewn from the Caucasus,
   Yet will it melt ere I have done my tale.
   This dungeon where they keep me is the sink
   Wherein the filth of all the castle falls.
_Light._ O villains!
_K. Edw._ And there, in mire and puddle, have I stood
   This ten days' space; and, lest that I should sleep,
   One plays continually upon a drum;
   They give me bread and water, being a king;
   So that, for want of sleep and sustenance,
   My mind's distemper'd, and my body's numb'd,
   And whether I have limbs or no I know not.
   O, would my blood dropp'd out from every vein,
   As doth this water from my tatter'd robes!
   Tell Isabel the queen, I look'd not thus,
   When for her sake I ran at tilt in France,
   And there unhors'd the Duke of Cleremont.
_Light._ O, speak no more, my lord! this breaks my heart.
   Lie on this bed, and rest yourself a while.
_K. Edw._ These looks of thine can harbour naught but death;
   I see my tragedy written in thy brows.
   Yet stay a while; forbear thy bloody hand,
   And let me see the stroke before it comes,
   That even then when I shall lose my life,
   My mind may be more steadfast on my God.
_Light._ What means your highness to mistrust me thus?
_K. Edw._ What mean'st thou to dissemble with me thus?
_Light._ These hands were never stain'd with innocent blood,
   Nor shall they now be tainted with a king's.
_K. Edw._ Forgive my thought for having such a thought.
   One jewel have I left; receive thou this:              [_Gives jewel._
   Still fear I, and I know not what's the cause,
   But every joint shakes as I give it thee.
   O, if thou harbour'st murder in thy heart,
   Let this gift change thy mind, and save thy soul!
   Know that I am a king: O, at that name
   I feel a hell of grief! where is my crown?
   Gone, gone! and do I [still] remain alive?
_Light._ You're overwatch'd, my lord: lie down and rest.
_K. Edw._ But that grief keeps me waking, I should sleep;
   For not these ten days have these eye-lids clos'd.
   Now, as I speak, they fall; and yet with fear
   Open again.  O, wherefore sitt'st thou here?
_Light._ If you mistrust me, I'll be gone, my lord.
_K. Edw._ No, no; for, if thou mean'st to murder me,
   Thou wilt return again; and therefore stay.                 [_Sleeps._
_Light._ He sleeps.
_K. Edw._ [_waking_] O, let me not die yet!  O, stay a while!
_Light._ How now, my lord!
_K. Edw._ Something still buzzeth in mine ears,
   And tells me, if I sleep, I never wake:
   This fear is that which makes me tremble thus;
   And therefore tell me, wherefore art thou come?
_Light._ To rid thee of thy life.--Matrevis, come!

              _Enter_ MATREVIS _and_ GURNEY.

_K. Edw._ I am too weak and feeble to resist.--
   Assist me, sweet God, and receive my soul!
_Light._ Run for the table.
_K. Edw._ O, spare me, or despatch me in a trice!
                   [_Matrevis brings in a table.  King Edward is murdered
                       by holding him down on the bed with the table, and
                       stamping on it._
_Light._ So, lay the table down, and stamp on it,
   But not too hard, lest that you bruise his body.
_Mat._ I fear me that this cry will raise the town,
   And therefore let us take horse and away.
_Light._ Tell me, sirs, was it not bravely done?
_Gur._ Excellent well: take this for thy reward.
                                            [_Stabs Lightborn, who dies._
   Come, let us cast the body in the moat,
   And bear the king's to Mortimer our lord:
   Away!                                       [_Exeunt with the bodies._

         _Enter the younger_ MORTIMER _and_ MATREVIS.

_Y. Mor._ Is't done, Matrevis, and the murderer dead?
_Mat._ Ay, my good lord: I would it were undone!
_Y. Mor._ Matrevis, if thou now grow'st penitent,
   I'll be thy ghostly father; therefore choose,
   Whether thou wilt be secret in this,
   Or else die by the hand of Mortimer.
_Mat._ Gurney, my lord, is fled, and will, I fear,
   Betray us both; therefore let me fly.
_Y. Mor._ Fly to the savages!
_Mat._ I humbly thank your honour.                               [_Exit._
_Y. Mor._ As for myself, I stand as Jove's huge tree,
   And others are but shrubs compar'd to me:
   All tremble at my name, and I fear none:
   Let's see who dare impeach me for his death!

                  _Enter_ QUEEN ISABELLA.

_Q. Isab._ Ah, Mortimer, the king my son hath news,
   His father's dead, and we have murder'd him!
_Y. Mor._ What if he have? the king is yet a child.
_Q. Isab._ Ay, but he tears his hair, and wrings his hands,
   And vows to be reveng'd upon us both.
   Into the council-chamber he is gone,
   To crave the aid and succour of his peers.
   Ay me, see where he comes, and they with him!
   Now, Mortimer, begins our tragedy.

   _Enter_ KING EDWARD THE THIRD, Lords, _and_ Attendants.

_First Lord._ Fear not, my lord; know that you are a king.
_K. Edw. Third._ Villain!--
_Y. Mor._ Ho, now, my lord!
_K. Edw. Third._ Think not that I am frighted with thy words:
   My father's murder'd through thy treachery;
   And thou shalt die, and on his mournful hearse
   Thy hateful and accursed head shall lie,
   To witness to the world that by thy means
   His kingly body was too soon interr'd.
_Q. Isab._ Weep not, sweet son.
_K. Edw. Third._ Forbid not me to weep; he was my father;
   And had you lov'd him half so well as I,
   You could not bear his death thus patiently:
   But you, I fear, conspir'd with Mortimer.
_First Lord._ Why speak you not unto my lord the king?
_Y. Mor._ Because I think scorn to be accus'd.
   Who is the man dares say I murder'd him?
_K. Edw. Third._ Traitor, in me my loving father speaks,
   And plainly saith, 'twas thou that murder'dst him.
_Y. Mor._ But hath your grace no other proof than this?
_K. Edw. Third._ Yes, if this be the hand of Mortimer.
                                                       [_Showing letter._
_Y. Mor._ False Gurney hath betray'd me and himself.
                                              [_Aside to Queen Isabella._
_Q. Isab._ I fear'd as much: murder can not be hid.
_Y. Mor._ It is my hand; what gather you by this?
_K. Edw. Third._ That thither thou didst send a murderer.
_Y. Mor._ What murderer? bring forth the man I sent.
_K. Edw. Third._ Ah, Mortimer, thou know'st that he is slain!
   And so shalt thou be too.--Why stays he here?
   Bring him unto a hurdle, drag him forth;
   Hang him, I say, and set his quarters up:
   And bring his head back presently to me.
_Q. Isab._ For my sake, sweet son, pity Mortimer!
_Y. Mor._ Madam, entreat not: I will rather die
   Than sue for life unto a paltry boy.
_K. Edw. Third._ Hence with the traitor, with the murderer!
_Y. Mor._ Base Fortune, now I see, that in thy wheel
   There is a point, to which when men aspire,
   They tumble headlong down: that point I touch'd,
   And, seeing there was no place to mount up higher,
   Why should I grieve at my declining fall?--
   Farewell, fair queen: weep not for Mortimer,
   That scorns the world, and, as a traveller,
   Goes to discover countries yet unknown.
_K. Edw. Third._ What, suffer you the traitor to delay?
                           [_Exit the younger Mortimer with First Lord and
                              some of the Attendants._
_Q. Isab._ As thou receivest thy life from me,
   Spill not the blood of gentle Mortimer!
_K. Edw. Third._ This argues that you spilt my father's blood,
   Else would you not entreat for Mortimer.
_Q. Isab._ I spill his blood! no.
_K. Edw. Third._ Ay, madam, you; for so the rumour runs.
_Q. Isab._ That rumour is untrue: for loving thee,
   Is this report rais'd on poor Isabel.
_K. Edw. Third._ I do not think her so unnatural.
_Sec. Lord._ My lord, I fear me it will prove too true.
_K. Edw. Third._ Mother, you are suspected for his death
   And therefore we commit you to the Tower,
   Till further trial may be made thereof.
   If you be guilty, though I be your son,
   Think not to find me slack or pitiful.
_Q. Isab._ Nay, to my death; for too long have I liv'd,
   Whenas my son thinks to abridge my days.
_K. Edw. Third._ Away with her! her words enforce these tears,
   And I shall pity her, if she speak again.
_Q. Isab._ Shall I not mourn for my beloved lord?
   And with the rest accompany him to his grave.
_Sec. Lord._ Thus, madam, 'tis the king's will you shall hence.
_Q. Isab._ He hath forgotten me: stay; I am his mother.
_Sec. Lord._ That boots not; therefore, gentle madam, go.
_Q. Isab._ Then come, sweet death, and rid me of this grief!
                     [_Exit with Second Lord and some of the Attendants._

     _Re-enter_ First Lord, _with the head of the younger_
                           MORTIMER.

_First Lord._ My lord, here is the head of Mortimer.
_K. Edw. Third._ Go fetch my father's hearse, where it shall lie;
   And bring my funeral robes.                      [_Exeunt Attendants._
                                Accursed head,
   Could I have rul'd thee then, as I do now,
   Thou hadst not hatch'd this monstrous treachery!--
   Here comes the hearse: help me to mourn, my lords.

   _Re-enter_ Attendants, _with the hearse and funeral robes._

   Sweet father, here unto thy murder'd ghost
   I offer up the wicked traitor's head;
   And let these tears, distilling from mine eyes,
   Be witness of my grief and innocency.                       [_Exeunt._


Produced by Gary R. Young

TAMBURLAINE THE GREAT,

IN TWO PARTS.

This is Part I.

By Christopher Marlowe

Edited By The Rev. Alexander Dyce.

TRANSCRIBER'S COMMENTS ON THE PREPARATION OF THE E-TEXT:

SQUARE BRACKETS:

The square brackets, i.e. [ ] are copied from the printed book,
without change, except that the stage directions usually do not
have closing brackets.  These have been added.

FOOTNOTES:

For this E-Text version of the book, the footnotes have been
consolidated at the end of the play.

Numbering of the footnotes has been changed, and each footnote
is given a unique identity in the form [XXX].

CHANGES TO THE TEXT:

Character names were expanded.  For Example, TAMBURLAINE was
TAMB., ZENOCRATE was ZENO., etc.

GREEK:
One word, appearing in note 115, was printed in Greek Characters.
This word has been transliterated as <<deiktikos>>.

  Tamburlaine the Great.  Who, from a Scythian Shephearde
  by his rare and woonderfull Conquests, became a most
  puissant and mightye Monarque.  And (for his tyranny,
  and terrour in Warre) was tearmed, The Scourge of God.
  Deuided into two Tragicall Discourses, as they were
  sundrie times shewed vpon Stages in the Citie of London.
  By the right honorable the Lord Admyrall, his seruauntes.
  Now first, and newlie published.  London.  Printed by
  Richard Ihones:  at the signe of the Rose and Crowne
  neere Holborne Bridge.  1590.  4to.

The above title-page is pasted into a copy of the FIRST PART OF
TAMBURLAINE in the Library at Bridge-water House; which copy,
excepting that title-page and the Address to the Readers, is the
impression of 1605.  I once supposed that the title-pages which
bear the dates 1605 and 1606 (see below) had been added to the
4tos of the TWO PARTS of the play originally printed in 1590;
but I am now convinced that both PARTS were really reprinted,
THE FIRST PART in 1605, and THE SECOND PART in 1606, and that
nothing remains of the earlier 4tos, except the title-page and
the Address to the Readers, which are preserved in the Bridge-
water collection.

In the Bodleian Library, Oxford, is an 8vo edition of both PARTS
OF TAMBURLAINE, dated 1590:  the title-page of THE FIRST PART
agrees verbatim with that given above; the half-title-page of
THE SECOND PART is as follows;

  The Second Part of The bloody Conquests of mighty
  Tamburlaine.  With his impassionate fury, for the death
  of his Lady and loue faire Zenocrate; his fourme of
  exhortacion and discipline to his three sons, and the
  maner of his own death.

In the Garrick Collection, British Museum, is an 8vo edition of
both PARTS dated 1592:  the title-page of THE FIRST PART runs
thus;

  Tamburlaine the Great.  Who, from a Scythian Shepheard,
  by his rare and wonderfull Conquestes, became a most
  puissant and mightie Mornarch [sic]:  And (for his
  tyrannie, and terrour in warre) was tearmed, The Scourge
  of God.  The first part of the two Tragicall discourses,
  as they were sundrie times most stately shewed vpon
  Stages in the Citie of London.  By the right honorable
  the Lord Admirall, his seruauntes.  Now newly published.
  Printed by Richard Iones, dwelling at the signe of the
  Rose and Crowne neere Holborne Bridge.

The half-title-page of THE SECOND PART agrees exactly with that
already given.  Perhaps the 8vo at Oxford and that in the British
Museum (for I have not had an opportunity of comparing them) are
the same impression, differing only in the title-pages.

Langbaine (ACCOUNT OF ENGL. DRAM. POETS, p. 344) mentions an 8vo
dated 1593.

The title-pages of the latest impressions of THE TWO PARTS are
as follows;

  Tamburlaine the Greate.  Who, from the state of a
  Shepheard in Scythia, by his rare and wonderfull
  Conquests, became a most puissant and mighty Monarque.
  London Printed for Edward White, and are to be solde
  at the little North doore of Saint Paules-Church, at
  the signe of the Gunne, 1605.  4to.

  Tamburlaine the Greate.  With his impassionate furie,
  for the death of his Lady and Loue fair Zenocrate:  his
  forme of exhortation and discipline to his three Sonnes,
  and the manner of his owne death.  The second part.
  London Printed by E. A. for Ed. White, and are to be
  solde at his Shop neere the little North doore of Saint
  Paules Church at the Signe of the Gun.  1606.  4to.

The text of the present edition is given from the 8vo of 1592,
collated with the 4tos of 1605-6.

TO THE GENTLEMEN-READERS [1] AND OTHERS THAT TAKE PLEASURE
IN READING HISTORIES. [2]

Gentlemen and courteous readers whosoever:  I have here published
in print, for your sakes, the two tragical discourses of the
Scythian shepherd Tamburlaine, that became so great a conqueror
and so mighty a monarch.  My hope is, that they will be now no
less acceptable unto you to read after your serious affairs and
studies than they have been lately delightful for many of you to
see when the same were shewed in London upon stages.  I have
purposely omitted and left out some fond [3] and frivolous
gestures,
digressing, and, in my poor opinion, far unmeet for the matter,
which I thought might seem more tedious unto the wise than any
way else to be regarded, though haply they have been of some
vain-conceited fondlings greatly gaped at, what time they were
shewed upon the stage in their graced deformities:  nevertheless
now to be mixtured in print with such matter of worth, it would
prove a great disgrace to so honourable and stately a history.
Great folly were it in me to commend unto your wisdoms either the
eloquence of the author that writ them or the worthiness of the
matter itself.  I therefore leave unto your learned censures [4]
both the one and the other, and myself the poor printer of them
unto your most courteous and favourable protection; which if you
vouchsafe to accept, you shall evermore bind me to employ what
travail and service I can to the advancing and pleasuring of your
excellent degree.
     Yours, most humble at commandment,
          R[ichard] J[ones], printer.

THE FIRST PART OF TAMBURLAINE THE GREAT.

THE PROLOGUE.

      From jigging veins of rhyming mother-wits,
      And such conceits as clownage keeps in pay,
      We'll lead you to the stately tent of war,
      Where you shall hear the Scythian Tamburlaine
      Threatening the world with high astounding terms,
      And scourging kingdoms with his conquering sword.
      View but his picture in this tragic glass,
      And then applaud his fortunes as you please.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE.

     MYCETES, king of Persia.
     COSROE, his brother.
     MEANDER,     ]
     THERIDAMAS,  ]
     ORTYGIUS,    ] Persian lords.
     CENEUS,      ]
     MENAPHON,    ]
     TAMBURLAINE, a Scythian shepherd.
     TECHELLES,   ]
     USUMCASANE,  ] his followers.
     BAJAZETH, emperor of the Turks.
     KING OF FEZ.
     KING OF MOROCCO.
     KING OF ARGIER.
     KING OF ARABIA.
     SOLDAN OF EGYPT.
     GOVERNOR OF DAMASCUS.
     AGYDAS,      ]
     MAGNETES,    ] Median lords.
     CAPOLIN, an Egyptian.
     PHILEMUS, Bassoes, Lords, Citizens, Moors, Soldiers, and
     Attendants.

     ZENOCRATE, daughter to the Soldan of Egypt.
     ANIPPE, her maid.
     ZABINA, wife to BAJAZETH.
     EBEA, her maid.
     Virgins of Damascus.

THE FIRST PART OF TAMBURLAINE THE GREAT.

ACT I.

SCENE I.

          Enter MYCETES, COSROE, MEANDER, THERIDAMAS, ORTYGIUS,
          CENEUS, MENAPHON, with others.

     MYCETES. Brother Cosroe, I find myself agriev'd;
     Yet insufficient to express the same,
     For it requires a great and thundering speech:
     Good brother, tell the cause unto my lords;
     I know you have a better wit than I.

     COSROE. Unhappy Persia,--that in former age
     Hast been the seat of mighty conquerors,
     That, in their prowess and their policies,
     Have triumph'd over Afric, [5] and the bounds
     Of Europe where the sun dares scarce appear
     For freezing meteors and congealed cold,--
     Now to be rul'd and govern'd by a man
     At whose birth-day Cynthia with Saturn join'd,
     And Jove, the Sun, and Mercury denied
     To shed their [6] influence in his fickle brain!
     Now Turks and Tartars shake their swords at thee,
     Meaning to mangle all thy provinces.

     MYCETES. Brother, I see your meaning well enough,
     And through [7] your planets I perceive you think
     I am not wise enough to be a king:
     But I refer me to my noblemen,
     That know my wit, and can be witnesses.
     I might command you to be slain for this,--
     Meander, might I not?

     MEANDER. Not for so small a fault, my sovereign lord.

     MYCETES. I mean it not, but yet I know I might.--
     Yet live; yea, live; Mycetes wills it so.--
     Meander, thou, my faithful counsellor,
     Declare the cause of my conceived grief,
     Which is, God knows, about that Tamburlaine,
     That, like a fox in midst of harvest-time,
     Doth prey upon my flocks of passengers;
     And, as I hear, doth mean to pull my plumes:
     Therefore 'tis good and meet for to be wise.

     MEANDER. Oft have I heard your majesty complain
     Of Tamburlaine, that sturdy Scythian thief,
     That robs your merchants of Persepolis
     Trading by land unto the Western Isles,
     And in your confines with his lawless train
     Daily commits incivil [8] outrages,
     Hoping (misled by dreaming prophecies)
     To reign in Asia, and with barbarous arms
     To make himself the monarch of the East:
     But, ere he march in Asia, or display
     His vagrant ensign in the Persian fields,
     Your grace hath taken order by Theridamas,
     Charg'd with a thousand horse, to apprehend
     And bring him captive to your highness' throne.

     MYCETES. Full true thou speak'st, and like thyself, my lord,
     Whom I may term a Damon for thy love:
     Therefore 'tis best, if so it like you all,
     To send my thousand horse incontinent [9]
     To apprehend that paltry Scythian.
     How like you this, my honourable lords?
     Is it not a kingly resolution?

     COSROE. It cannot choose, because it comes from you.

     MYCETES. Then hear thy charge, valiant Theridamas,
     The chiefest [10] captain of Mycetes' host,
     The hope of Persia, and the very legs
     Whereon our state doth lean as on a staff,
     That holds us up and foils our neighbour foes:
     Thou shalt be leader of this thousand horse,
     Whose foaming gall with rage and high disdain
     Have sworn the death of wicked Tamburlaine.
     Go frowning forth; but come thou smiling home,
     As did Sir Paris with the Grecian dame:
     Return with speed; time passeth swift away;
     Our life is frail, and we may die to-day.

     THERIDAMAS. Before the moon renew her borrow'd light,
     Doubt not, my lord and gracious sovereign,
     But Tamburlaine and that Tartarian rout [11]
     Shall either perish by our warlike hands,
     Or plead for mercy at your highness' feet.

     MYCETES. Go, stout Theridamas; thy words are swords,
     And with thy looks thou conquerest all thy foes.
     I long to see thee back return from thence,
     That I may view these milk-white steeds of mine
     All loaden with the heads of killed men,
     And, from their knees even to their hoofs below,
     Besmear'd with blood that makes a dainty show.

     THERIDAMAS. Then now, my lord, I humbly take my leave.

     MYCETES. Theridamas, farewell ten thousand times.

          [Exit THERIDAMAS.]

     Ah, Menaphon, why stay'st thou thus behind,
     When other men press [12] forward for renown?
     Go, Menaphon, go into Scythia,
     And foot by foot follow Theridamas.

     COSROE. Nay, pray you, [13] let him stay; a greater [task]
     Fits Menaphon than warring with a thief:
     Create him pro-rex of all [14] Africa,
     That he may win the Babylonians' hearts,
     Which will revolt from Persian government,
     Unless they have a wiser king than you.

     MYCETES. Unless they have a wiser king than you!
     These are his words; Meander, set them down.

     COSROE. And add this to them,--that all Asia
     Lament to see the folly of their king.

     MYCETES. Well, here I swear by this my royal seat--

     COSROE. You may do well to kiss it, then.

     MYCETES. Emboss'd with silk as best beseems my state,
     To be reveng'd for these contemptuous words!
     O, where is duty and allegiance now?
     Fled to the Caspian or the Ocean main?
     What shall I call thee? brother? no, a foe;
     Monster of nature, shame unto thy stock,
     That dar'st presume thy sovereign for to mock!--
     Meander, come:  I am abus'd, Meander.

          [Exeunt all except COSROE and MENAPHON.]

     MENAPHON. How now, my lord! what, mated [15] and amaz'd
     To hear the king thus threaten like himself!

     COSROE. Ah, Menaphon, I pass not [16] for his threats!
     The plot is laid by Persian noblemen
     And captains of the Median garrisons
     To crown me emperor of Asia:
     But this it is that doth excruciate
     The very substance of my vexed soul,
     To see our neighbours, that were wont to quake
     And tremble at the Persian monarch's name,
     Now sit and laugh our regiment [17] to scorn;
     And that which might resolve [18] me into tears,
     Men from the farthest equinoctial line
     Have swarm'd in troops into the Eastern India,
     Lading their ships [19] with gold and precious stones,
     And made their spoils from all our provinces.

     MENAPHON. This should entreat your highness to rejoice,
     Since Fortune gives you opportunity
     To gain the title of a conqueror
     By curing of this maimed empery.
     Afric and Europe bordering on your land,
     And continent to your dominions,
     How easily may you, with a mighty host,
     Pass [20] into Graecia, as did Cyrus once,
     And cause them to withdraw their forces home,
     Lest you [21] subdue the pride of Christendom!

          [Trumpet within.]

     COSROE. But, Menaphon, what means this trumpet's sound?

     MENAPHON. Behold, my lord, Ortygius and the rest
     Bringing the crown to make you emperor!

          Re-enter ORTYGIUS and CENEUS, [22] with others, bearing a
          crown.

     ORTYGIUS. Magnificent and mighty prince Cosroe,
     We, in the name of other Persian states [23]
     And commons of this mighty monarchy,
     Present thee with th' imperial diadem.

     CENEUS. The warlike soldiers and the gentlemen,
     That heretofore have fill'd Persepolis
     With Afric captains taken in the field,
     Whose ransom made them march in coats of gold,
     With costly jewels hanging at their ears,
     And shining stones upon their lofty crests,
     Now living idle in the walled towns,
     Wanting both pay and martial discipline,
     Begin in troops to threaten civil war,
     And openly exclaim against their [24] king:
     Therefore, to stay all sudden mutinies,
     We will invest your highness emperor;
     Whereat the soldiers will conceive more joy
     Than did the Macedonians at the spoil
     Of great Darius and his wealthy host.

     COSROE. Well, since I see the state of Persia droop
     And languish in my brother's government,
     I willingly receive th' imperial crown,
     And vow to wear it for my country's good,
     In spite of them shall malice my estate.

     ORTYGIUS. And, in assurance of desir'd success,
     We here do crown thee monarch of the East [;]
     Emperor of Asia and Persia; [25]
     Great lord of Media and Armenia;
     Duke of Africa and Albania,
     Mesopotamia and of Parthia,
     East India and the late-discover'd isles;
     Chief lord of all the wide vast Euxine Sea,
     And of the ever-raging [26] Caspian Lake.

     ALL. [27] Long live Cosroe, mighty emperor!

     COSROE. And Jove may [28] never let me longer live
     Than I may seek to gratify your love,
     And cause the soldiers that thus honour me
     To triumph over many provinces!
     By whose desires of discipline in arms
     I doubt not shortly but to reign sole king,
     And with the army of Theridamas
     (Whither we presently will fly, my lords,)
     To rest secure against my brother's force.

     ORTYGIUS. We knew, [29] my lord, before we brought the crown,
     Intending your investion so near
     The residence of your despised brother,
     The lords [30] would not be too exasperate
     To injury [31] or suppress your worthy title;
     Or, if they would, there are in readiness
     Ten thousand horse to carry you from hence,
     In spite of all suspected enemies.

     COSROE. I know it well, my lord, and thank you all.

     ORTYGIUS. Sound up the trumpets, then.

          [Trumpets sounded.]

     ALL. [32] God save the king!

          [Exeunt.]

SCENE II.

          Enter TAMBURLAINE leading ZENOCRATE, TECHELLES, USUMCASANE,
          AGYDAS, MAGNETES, LORDS, and SOLDIERS loaden with treasure.

     TAMBURLAINE. Come, lady, let not this appal your thoughts;
     The jewels and the treasure we have ta'en
     Shall be reserv'd, and you in better state
     Than if you were arriv'd in Syria,
     Even in the circle of your father's arms,
     The mighty Soldan of Aegyptia.

     ZENOCRATE. Ah, shepherd, pity my distressed plight!
     (If, as thou seem'st, thou art so mean a man,)
     And seek not to enrich thy followers
     By lawless rapine from a silly maid,
     Who, travelling [33] with these Median lords
     To Memphis, from my uncle's country of Media,
     Where, all my youth, I have been governed,
     Have pass'd the army of the mighty Turk,
     Bearing his privy-signet and his hand
     To safe-conduct us thorough [34] Africa.

     MAGNETES. And, since we have arriv'd in Scythia,
     Besides rich presents from the puissant Cham,
     We have his highness' letters to command
     Aid and assistance, if we stand in need.

     TAMBURLAINE. But now you see these letters and commands
     Are countermanded by a greater man;
     And through my provinces you must expect
     Letters of conduct from my mightiness,
     If you intend to keep your treasure safe.
     But, since I love to live at liberty,
     As easily may you get the Soldan's crown
     As any prizes out of my precinct;
     For they are friends that help to wean my state
     Till men and kingdoms help to strengthen it,
     And must maintain my life exempt from servitude.--
     But, tell me, madam, is your grace betroth'd?

     ZENOCRATE. I am, my lord,--for so you do import.

     TAMBURLAINE. I am a lord, for so my deeds shall prove;
     And yet a shepherd by my parentage.
     But, lady, this fair face and heavenly hue
     Must grace his bed that conquers Asia,
     And means to be a terror to the world,
     Measuring the limits of his empery
     By east and west, as Phoebus doth his course.--
     Lie here, ye weeds, that I disdain to wear!
     This complete armour and this curtle-axe
     Are adjuncts more beseeming Tamburlaine.--
     And, madam, whatsoever you esteem
     Of this success, and loss unvalued, [35]
     Both may invest you empress of the East;
     And these that seem but silly country swains
     May have the leading of so great an host
     As with their weight shall make the mountains quake,
     Even as when windy exhalations,
     Fighting for passage, tilt within the earth.

     TECHELLES. As princely lions, when they rouse themselves,
     Stretching their paws, and threatening herds of beasts,
     So in his armour looketh Tamburlaine.
     Methinks I see kings kneeling at his feet,
     And he with frowning brows and fiery looks
     Spurning their crowns from off their captive heads.

     USUMCASANE. And making thee and me, Techelles, kings,
     That even to death will follow Tamburlaine.

     TAMBURLAINE. Nobly resolv'd, sweet friends and followers!
     These lords perhaps do scorn our estimates,
     And think we prattle with distemper'd spirits:
     But, since they measure our deserts so mean,
     That in conceit [36] bear empires on our spears,
     Affecting thoughts coequal with the clouds,
     They shall be kept our forced followers
     Till with their eyes they view us emperors.

     ZENOCRATE. The gods, defenders of the innocent.
     Will never prosper your intended drifts,
     That thus oppress poor friendless passengers.
     Therefore at least admit us liberty,
     Even as thou hop'st to be eternized
     By living Asia's mighty emperor.

     AGYDAS. I hope our lady's treasure and our own
     May serve for ransom to our liberties:
     Return our mules and empty camels back,
     That we may travel into Syria,
     Where her betrothed lord, Alcidamus,
     Expects the arrival of her highness' person.

     MAGNETES. And wheresoever we repose ourselves,
     We will report but well of Tamburlaine.

     TAMBURLAINE. Disdains Zenocrate to live with me?
     Or you, my lords, to be my followers?
     Think you I weigh this treasure more than you?
     Not all the gold in India's wealthy arms
     Shall buy the meanest soldier in my train.
     Zenocrate, lovelier than the love of Jove,
     Brighter than is the silver Rhodope, [37]
     Fairer than whitest snow on Scythian hills,
     Thy person is more worth to Tamburlaine
     Than the possession of the Persian crown,
     Which gracious stars have promis'd at my birth.
     A hundred Tartars shall attend on thee,
     Mounted on steeds swifter than Pegasus;
     Thy garments shall be made of Median silk,
     Enchas'd with precious jewels of mine own,
     More rich and valurous [38] than Zenocrate's;
     With milk-white harts upon an ivory sled
     Thou shalt be drawn amidst the frozen pools, [39]
     And scale the icy mountains' lofty tops,
     Which with thy beauty will be soon resolv'd: [40]
     My martial prizes, with five hundred men,
     Won on the fifty-headed Volga's waves,
     Shall we all offer [41] to Zenocrate,
     And then myself to fair Zenocrate.

     TECHELLES. What now! in love?

     TAMBURLAINE. Techelles, women must be flattered:
     But this is she with whom I am in [42] love.

          Enter a SOLDIER.

     SOLDIER. News, news!

     TAMBURLAINE. How now! what's the matter?

     SOLDIER. A thousand Persian horsemen are at hand,
     Sent from the king to overcome us all.

     TAMBURLAINE. How now, my lords of Egypt, and Zenocrate!
     Now must your jewels be restor'd again,
     And I, that triumph'd [43] so, be overcome?
     How say you, lordings? is not this your hope?

     AGYDAS. We hope yourself will willingly restore them.

     TAMBURLAINE. Such hope, such fortune, have the thousand horse.
     Soft ye, my lords, and sweet Zenocrate!
     You must be forced from me ere you go.--
     A thousand horsemen! we five hundred foot!
     An odds too great for us to stand against.
     But are they rich? and is their armour good!

     SOLDIER. Their plumed helms are wrought with beaten gold,
     Their swords enamell'd, and about their necks
     Hang massy chains of gold down to the waist;
     In every part exceeding brave [44] and rich.

     TAMBURLAINE. Then shall we fight courageously with them?
     Or look you I should play the orator?

     TECHELLES. No; cowards and faint-hearted runaways
     Look for orations when the foe is near:
     Our swords shall play the orators for us.

     USUMCASANE. Come, let us meet them at the mountain-top, [45]
     And with a sudden and an hot alarum
     Drive all their horses headlong down the hill.

     TECHELLES. Come, let us march.

     TAMBURLAINE. Stay, Techelles; ask a parle first.

          The SOLDIERS enter.

     Open the mails, [46] yet guard the treasure sure:
     Lay out our golden wedges to the view,
     That their reflections may amaze the Persians;
     And look we friendly on them when they come:
     But, if they offer word or violence,
     We'll fight, five hundred men-at-arms to one,
     Before we part with our possession;
     And 'gainst the general we will lift our swords,
     And either lance [47] his greedy thirsting throat,
     Or take him prisoner, and his chain shall serve
     For manacles till he be ransom'd home.

     TECHELLES. I hear them come:  shall we encounter them?

     TAMBURLAINE. Keep all your standings, and not stir a foot:
     Myself will bide the danger of the brunt.

          Enter THERIDAMAS with others.

     THERIDAMAS. Where is this [48] Scythian Tamburlaine?

     TAMBURLAINE. Whom seek'st thou, Persian?  I am Tamburlaine.

     THERIDAMAS. Tamburlaine!
     A Scythian shepherd so embellished
     With nature's pride and richest furniture!
     His looks do menace heaven and dare the gods;
     His fiery eyes are fix'd upon the earth,
     As if he now devis'd some stratagem,
     Or meant to pierce Avernus' darksome vaults [49]
     To pull the triple-headed dog from hell.

     TAMBURLAINE. Noble and mild this Persian seems to be,
     If outward habit judge the inward man.

     TECHELLES. His deep affections make him passionate.

     TAMBURLAINE. With what a majesty he rears his looks!--
     In thee, thou valiant man of Persia,
     I see the folly of thy [50] emperor.
     Art thou but captain of a thousand horse,
     That by characters graven in thy brows,
     And by thy martial face and stout aspect,
     Deserv'st to have the leading of an host?
     Forsake thy king, and do but join with me,
     And we will triumph over all the world:
     I hold the Fates bound fast in iron chains,
     And with my hand turn Fortune's wheel about;
     And sooner shall the sun fall from his sphere
     Than Tamburlaine be slain or overcome.
     Draw forth thy sword, thou mighty man-at-arms,
     Intending but to raze my charmed skin,
     And Jove himself will stretch his hand from heaven
     To ward the blow, and shield me safe from harm.
     See, how he rains down heaps of gold in showers,
     As if he meant to give my soldiers pay!
     And, as a sure and grounded argument
     That I shall be the monarch of the East,
     He sends this Soldan's daughter rich and brave, [51]
     To be my queen and portly emperess.
     If thou wilt stay with me, renowmed [52] man,
     And lead thy thousand horse with my conduct,
     Besides thy share of this Egyptian prize,
     Those thousand horse shall sweat with martial spoil
     Of conquer'd kingdoms and of cities sack'd:
     Both we will walk upon the lofty cliffs; [53]
     And Christian merchants, [54] that with Russian stems [55]
     Plough up huge furrows in the Caspian Sea,
     Shall vail [56] to us as lords of all the lake;
     Both we will reign as consuls of the earth,
     And mighty kings shall be our senators.
     Jove sometime masked in a shepherd's weed;
     And by those steps that he hath scal'd the heavens
     May we become immortal like the gods.
     Join with me now in this my mean estate,
     (I call it mean, because, being yet obscure,
     The nations far-remov'd admire me not,)
     And when my name and honour shall be spread
     As far as Boreas claps his brazen wings,
     Or fair Bootes [57] sends his cheerful light,
     Then shalt thou be competitor [58] with me,
     And sit with Tamburlaine in all his majesty.

     THERIDAMAS. Not Hermes, prolocutor to the gods,
     Could use persuasions more pathetical.

     TAMBURLAINE. Nor are Apollo's oracles more true
     Than thou shalt find my vaunts substantial.

     TECHELLES. We are his friends; and, if the Persian king
     Should offer present dukedoms to our state,
     We think it loss to make exchange for that
     We are assur'd of by our friend's success.

     USUMCASANE. And kingdoms at the least we all expect,
     Besides the honour in assured conquests,
     Where kings shall crouch unto our conquering swords,
     And hosts of soldiers stand amaz'd at us,
     When with their fearful tongues they shall confess,
     These are the men that all the world admires.

     THERIDAMAS. What strong enchantments tice my yielding soul
     To these [59] resolved, noble Scythians!
     But shall I prove a traitor to my king?

     TAMBURLAINE. No; but the trusty friend of Tamburlaine.

     THERIDAMAS. Won with thy words, and conquer'd with thy looks,
     I yield myself, my men, and horse to thee,
     To be partaker of thy good or ill,
     As long as life maintains Theridamas.

     TAMBURLAINE. Theridamas, my friend, take here my hand,
     Which is as much as if I swore by heaven,
     And call'd the gods to witness of my vow.
     Thus shall my heart be still combin'd with thine
     Until our bodies turn to elements,
     And both our souls aspire celestial thrones.--
     Techelles and Casane, welcome him.

     TECHELLES. Welcome, renowmed [60] Persian, to us all!

     USUMCASANE. Long may Theridamas remain with us!

     TAMBURLAINE. These are my friends, in whom I more rejoice
     Than doth the king of Persia in his crown;
     And, by the love of Pylades and Orestes,
     Whose statues [61] we adore in Scythia,
     Thyself and them shall never part from me
     Before I crown you kings [62] in Asia.
     Make much of them, gentle Theridamas,
     And they will never leave thee till the death.

     THERIDAMAS. Nor thee nor them, [63] thrice-noble Tamburlaine,
     Shall want my heart to be with gladness pierc'd,
     To do you honour and security.

     TAMBURLAINE. A thousand thanks, worthy Theridamas.--
     And now, fair madam, and my noble lords,
     If you will [64] willingly remain with me,
     You shall have honours as your merits be;
     Or else you shall be forc'd with slavery.

     AGYDAS. We yield unto thee, happy Tamburlaine.

     TAMBURLAINE. For you, then, madam, I am out of doubt.

     ZENOCRATE. I must be pleas'd perforce,--wretched Zenocrate!

          [Exeunt.]

ACT II.

SCENE I.

          Enter COSROE, MENAPHON, ORTYGIUS, and CENEUS, with SOLDIERS.

     COSROE. Thus far are we towards Theridamas,
     And valiant Tamburlaine, the man of fame,
     The man that in the forehead of his fortune
     Bears figures of renown and miracle.
     But tell me, that hast seen him, Menaphon,
     What stature wields he, and what personage?

     MENAPHON. Of stature tall, and straightly fashioned,
     Like his desire, lift upwards and divine;
     So large of limbs, his joints so strongly knit,
     Such breadth of shoulders as might mainly bear
     Old Atlas' burden; 'twixt his manly pitch, [65]
     A pearl more worth than all the world is plac'd,
     Wherein by curious sovereignty of art
     Are fix'd his piercing instruments of sight,
     Whose fiery circles bear encompassed
     A heaven of heavenly bodies in their spheres,
     That guides his steps and actions to the throne
     Where honour sits invested royally;
     Pale of complexion, wrought in him with passion,
     Thirsting with sovereignty and [66] love of arms;
     His lofty brows in folds do figure death,
     And in their smoothness amity and life;
     About them hangs a knot of amber hair,
     Wrapped in curls, as fierce Achilles' was,
     On which the breath of heaven delights to play,
     Making it dance with wanton majesty;
     His arms and fingers long and sinewy, [67]
     Betokening valour and excess of strength;--
     In every part proportion'd like the man
     Should make the world subdu'd [68] to Tamburlaine.

     COSROE. Well hast thou pourtray'd in thy terms of life
     The face and personage of a wondrous man:
     Nature doth strive with Fortune [69] and his stars
     To make him famous in accomplish'd worth;
     And well his merits shew him to be made
     His fortune's master and the king of men,
     That could persuade, at such a sudden pinch,
     With reasons of his valour and his life,
     A thousand sworn and overmatching foes.
     Then, when our powers in points of swords are join'd,
     And clos'd in compass of the killing bullet,
     Though strait the passage and the port [70] be made
     That leads to palace of my brother's life,
     Proud is [71] his fortune if we pierce it not;
     And, when the princely Persian diadem
     Shall overweigh his weary witless head,
     And fall, like mellow'd fruit, with shakes of death,
     In fair [72] Persia noble Tamburlaine
     Shall be my regent, and remain as king.

     ORTYGIUS. In happy hour we have set the crown
     Upon your kingly head, that seeks our honour
     In joining with the man ordain'd by heaven
     To further every action to the best.

     CENEUS. He that with shepherds and a little spoil
     Durst, in disdain of wrong and tyranny,
     Defend his freedom 'gainst a monarchy,
     What will he do supported by a king,
     Leading a troop of gentlemen and lords,
     And stuff'd with treasure for his highest thoughts!

     COSROE. And such shall wait on worthy Tamburlaine.
     Our army will be forty thousand strong,
     When Tamburlaine and brave Theridamas
     Have met us by the river Araris;
     And all conjoin'd to meet the witless king,
     That now is marching near to Parthia,
     And, with unwilling soldiers faintly arm'd,
     To seek revenge on me and Tamburlaine;
     To whom, sweet Menaphon, direct me straight.

     MENAPHON. I will, my lord.

          [Exeunt.]

SCENE II.

          Enter MYCETES, MEANDER, with other LORDS; and SOLDIERS.

     MYCETES. Come, my Meander, let us to this gear.
     I tell you true, my heart is swoln with wrath
     On this same thievish villain Tamburlaine,
     And of [73] that false Cosroe, my traitorous brother.
     Would it not grieve a king to be so abus'd,
     And have a thousand horsemen ta'en away?
     And, which is worse, [74] to have his diadem
     Sought for by such scald knaves as love him not?
     I think it would:  well, then, by heavens I swear,
     Aurora shall not peep out of her doors,
     But I will have Cosroe by the head,
     And kill proud Tamburlaine with point of sword.
     Tell you the rest, Meander:  I have said.

     MEANDER. Then, having pass'd Armenian deserts now,
     And pitch'd our tents under the Georgian hills,
     Whose tops are cover'd with Tartarian thieves,
     That lie in ambush, waiting for a prey,
     What should we do but bid them battle straight,
     And rid the world of those detested troops?
     Lest, if we let them linger here a while,
     They gather strength by power of fresh supplies.
     This country swarms with vile outragious men
     That live by rapine and by lawless spoil,
     Fit soldiers for the [75] wicked Tamburlaine;
     And he that could with gifts and promises
     Inveigle him that led a thousand horse,
     And make him false his faith unto his [76] king,
     Will quickly win such as be [77] like himself.
     Therefore cheer up your minds; prepare to fight:
     He that can take or slaughter Tamburlaine,
     Shall rule the province of Albania;
     Who brings that traitor's head, Theridamas,
     Shall have a government in Media,
     Beside [78] the spoil of him and all his train:
     But, if Cosroe (as our spials say,
     And as we know) remains with Tamburlaine,
     His highness' pleasure is that he should live,
     And be reclaim'd with princely lenity.

          Enter a SPY.

     SPY. An hundred horsemen of my company,
     Scouting abroad upon these champion [79] plains,
     Have view'd the army of the Scythians;
     Which make report it far exceeds the king's.

     MEANDER. Suppose they be in number infinite,
     Yet being void of martial discipline,
     All running headlong, greedy after [80] spoils,
     And more regarding gain than victory,
     Like to the cruel brothers of the earth,
     Sprung [81] of the teeth of [82] dragons venomous,
     Their careless swords shall lance [83] their fellows' throats,
     And make us triumph in their overthrow.

     MYCETES. Was there such brethren, sweet Meander, say,
     That sprung of teeth of dragons venomous?

     MEANDER. So poets say, my lord.

     MYCETES. And 'tis a pretty toy to be a poet.
     Well, well, Meander, thou art deeply read;
     And having thee, I have a jewel sure.
     Go on, my lord, and give your charge, I say;
     Thy wit will make us conquerors to-day.

     MEANDER. Then, noble soldiers, to entrap these thieves
     That live confounded in disorder'd troops,
     If wealth or riches may prevail with them,
     We have our camels laden all with gold,
     Which you that be but common soldiers
     Shall fling in every corner of the field;
     And, while the base-born Tartars take it up,
     You, fighting more for honour than for gold,
     Shall massacre those greedy-minded slaves;
     And, when their scatter'd army is subdu'd,
     And you march on their slaughter'd carcasses,
     Share equally the gold that bought their lives,
     And live like gentlemen in Persia.
     Strike up the [84] drum, and march courageously:
     Fortune herself doth sit upon our crests.

     MYCETES. He tells you true, my masters; so he does.--
     Drums, why sound ye not when Meander speaks?

          [Exeunt, drums sounding.]

SCENE III.

          Enter COSROE, TAMBURLAINE, THERIDAMAS, TECHELLES,
     USUMCASANE,
          and ORTYGIUS, with others.

     COSROE. Now, worthy Tamburlaine, have I repos'd
     In thy approved fortunes all my hope.
     What think'st thou, man, shall come of our attempts?
     For, even as from assured oracle,
     I take thy doom for satisfaction.

     TAMBURLAINE. And so mistake you not a whit, my lord;
     For fates and oracles [of] heaven have sworn
     To royalize the deeds of Tamburlaine,
     And make them blest that share in his attempts:
     And doubt you not but, if you favour me,
     And let my fortunes and my valour sway
     To some [85] direction in your martial deeds,
     The world will [86] strive with hosts of men-at-arms
     To swarm unto the ensign I support.
     The host of Xerxes, which by fame is said
     To drink the mighty Parthian Araris,
     Was but a handful to that we will have:
     Our quivering lances, shaking in the air,
     And bullets, like Jove's dreadful thunderbolts,
     Enroll'd in flames and fiery smouldering mists,
     Shall threat the gods more than Cyclopian wars;
     And with our sun-bright armour, as we march,
     We'll chase the stars from heaven, and dim their eyes
     That stand and muse at our admired arms.

     THERIDAMAS. You see, my lord, what working words he hath;
     But, when you see his actions top [87] his speech,
     Your speech will stay, or so extol his worth
     As I shall be commended and excus'd
     For turning my poor charge to his direction:
     And these his two renowmed [88] friends, my lord,
     Would make one thirst [89] and strive to be retain'd
     In such a great degree of amity.

     TECHELLES. With duty and [90] with amity we yield
     Our utmost service to the fair [91] Cosroe.

     COSROE. Which I esteem as portion of my crown.
     Usumcasane and Techelles both,
     When she [92] that rules in Rhamnus' [93] golden gates,
     And makes a passage for all prosperous arms,
     Shall make me solely emperor of Asia,
     Then shall your meeds [94] and valours be advanc'd
     To rooms of honour and nobility.

     TAMBURLAINE. Then haste, Cosroe, to be king alone,
     That I with these my friends and all my men
     May triumph in our long-expected fate.
     The king, your brother, is now hard at hand:
     Meet with the fool, and rid your royal shoulders
     Of such a burden as outweighs the sands
     And all the craggy rocks of Caspia.

          Enter a MESSENGER.

     MESSENGER. My lord,
     We have discovered the enemy
     Ready to charge you with a mighty army.

     COSROE. Come, Tamburlaine; now whet thy winged sword,
     And lift thy lofty arm into [95] the clouds,
     That it may reach the king of Persia's crown,
     And set it safe on my victorious head.

     TAMBURLAINE. See where it is, the keenest curtle-axe
     That e'er made passage thorough Persian arms!
     These are the wings shall make it fly as swift
     As doth the lightning or the breath of heaven,
     And kill as sure [96] as it swiftly flies.

     COSROE. Thy words assure me of kind success:
     Go, valiant soldier, go before, and charge
     The fainting army of that foolish king.

     TAMBURLAINE. Usumcasane and Techelles, come:
     We are enow to scare the enemy,
     And more than needs to make an emperor.

          [Exeunt to the battle.]

SCENE IV.

          Enter MYCETES with his crown in his hand. [97]

     MYCETES. Accurs'd be he that first invented war!
     They knew not, ah, they knew not, simple men,
     How those were [98] hit by pelting cannon-shot
     Stand staggering [99] like a quivering aspen-leaf
     Fearing the force of Boreas' boisterous blasts!
     In what a lamentable case were I,
     If nature had not given me wisdom's lore!
     For kings are clouts that every man shoots at,
     Our crown the pin [100] that thousands seek to cleave:
     Therefore in policy I think it good
     To hide it close; a goodly stratagem,
     And far from any man that is a fool:
     So shall not I be known; or if I be,
     They cannot take away my crown from me.
     Here will I hide it in this simple hole.

          Enter TAMBURLAINE.

     TAMBURLAINE. What, fearful coward, straggling from the camp,
     When kings themselves are present in the field?

     MYCETES. Thou liest.

     TAMBURLAINE. Base villain, darest thou give me [101] the lie?

     MYCETES. Away! I am the king; go; touch me not.
     Thou break'st the law of arms, unless thou kneel,
     And cry me "mercy, noble king!"

     TAMBURLAINE. Are you the witty king of Persia?

     MYCETES. Ay, marry, [102] am I:  have you any suit to me?

     TAMBURLAINE. I would entreat you to speak but three wise words.

     MYCETES. So I can when I see my time.

     TAMBURLAINE. Is this your crown?

     MYCETES. Ay:  didst thou ever see a fairer?

     TAMBURLAINE. You will not sell it, will you?

     MYCETES. Such another word, and I will have thee executed.  Come,
     give it me.

     TAMBURLAINE. No; I took it prisoner.

     MYCETES. You lie; I gave it you.

     TAMBURLAINE. Then 'tis mine.

     MYCETES. No; I mean I let you keep it.

     TAMBURLAINE. Well, I mean you shall have it again.
     Here, take it for a while:  I lend it thee,
     Till I may see thee hemm'd with armed men;
     Then shalt thou see me pull it from thy head:
     Thou art no match for mighty Tamburlaine.

          [Exit.]

     MYCETES. O gods, is this Tamburlaine the thief?
     I marvel much he stole it not away.

          [Trumpets within sound to the battle:  he runs out.]

SCENE V.

          Enter COSROE, TAMBURLAINE, MENAPHON, MEANDER, ORTYGIUS,
          THERIDAMAS, TECHELLES, USUMCASANE, with others.

     TAMBURLAINE. Hold thee, Cosroe; wear two imperial crowns;
     Think thee invested now as royally,
     Even by the mighty hand of Tamburlaine,
     As if as many kings as could encompass thee
     With greatest pomp had crown'd thee emperor.

     COSROE. So do I, thrice-renowmed man-at-arms; [103]
     And none shall keep the crown but Tamburlaine:
     Thee do I make my regent of Persia,
     And general-lieutenant of my armies.--
     Meander, you, that were our brother's guide,
     And chiefest [104] counsellor in all his acts,
     Since he is yielded to the stroke of war,
     On your submission we with thanks excuse,
     And give you equal place in our affairs.

     MEANDER. Most happy [105] emperor, in humblest terms
     I vow my service to your majesty,
     With utmost virtue of my faith and duty.

     COSROE. Thanks, good Meander.--Then, Cosroe, reign,
     And govern Persia in her former pomp.
     Now send embassage to thy neighbour kings,
     And let them know the Persian king is chang'd,
     From one that knew not what a king should do,
     To one that can command what 'longs thereto.
     And now we will to fair Persepolis
     With twenty thousand expert soldiers.
     The lords and captains of my brother's camp
     With little slaughter take Meander's course,
     And gladly yield them to my gracious rule.--
     Ortygius and Menaphon, my trusty friends,
     Now will I gratify your former good,
     And grace your calling with a greater sway.

     ORTYGIUS. And as we ever aim'd [106] at your behoof,
     And sought your state all honour it [107] deserv'd,
     So will we with our powers and our [108] lives
     Endeavour to preserve and prosper it.

     COSROE. I will not thank thee, sweet Ortygius;
     Better replies shall prove my purposes.--
     And now, Lord Tamburlaine, my brother's camp
     I leave to thee and to Theridamas,
     To follow me to fair Persepolis;
     Then will we [109] march to all those Indian mines
     My witless brother to the Christians lost,
     And ransom them with fame and usury:
     And, till thou overtake me, Tamburlaine,
     (Staying to order all the scatter'd troops,)
     Farewell, lord regent and his happy friends.
     I long to sit upon my brother's throne.

     MEANDER. Your majesty shall shortly have your wish,
     And ride in triumph through Persepolis.

          [Exeunt all except TAMBURLAINE, THERIDAMAS, TECHELLES, and
          USUMCASANE.]

     TAMBURLAINE. And ride in triumph through Persepolis!--
     Is it not brave to be a king, Techelles?--
     Usumcasane and Theridamas,
     Is it not passing brave to be a king,
     And ride in triumph through Persepolis?

     TECHELLES. O, my lord, it is sweet and full of pomp!

     USUMCASANE. To be a king is half to be a god.

     THERIDAMAS. A god is not so glorious as a king:
     I think the pleasure they enjoy in heaven,
     Cannot compare with kingly joys in [110] earth;--
     To wear a crown enchas'd with pearl and gold,
     Whose virtues carry with it life and death;
     To ask and have, command and be obey'd;
     When looks breed love, with looks to gain the prize,--
     Such power attractive shines in princes' eyes.

     TAMBURLAINE. Why, say, Theridamas, wilt thou be a king?

     THERIDAMAS. Nay, though I praise it, I can live without it.

     TAMBURLAINE. What say my other friends? will you be kings?

     TECHELLES. I, if I could, with all my heart, my lord.

     TAMBURLAINE. Why, that's well said, Techelles:  so would I;--
     And so would you, my masters, would you not?

     USUMCASANE. What, then, my lord?

     TAMBURLAINE. Why, then, Casane, [111] shall we wish for aught
     The world affords in greatest novelty,
     And rest attemptless, faint, and destitute?
     Methinks we should not.  I am strongly mov'd,
     That if I should desire the Persian crown,
     I could attain it with a wondrous ease:
     And would not all our soldiers soon consent,
     If we should aim at such a dignity?

     THERIDAMAS. I know they would with our persuasions.

     TAMBURLAINE. Why, then, Theridamas, I'll first assay
     To get the Persian kingdom to myself;
     Then thou for Parthia; they for Scythia and Media;
     And, if I prosper, all shall be as sure
     As if the Turk, the Pope, Afric, and Greece,
     Came creeping to us with their crowns a-piece. [112]

     TECHELLES. Then shall we send to this triumphing king,
     And bid him battle for his novel crown?

     USUMCASANE. Nay, quickly, then, before his room be hot.

     TAMBURLAINE. 'Twill prove a pretty jest, in faith, my friends.

     THERIDAMAS. A jest to charge on twenty thousand men!
     I judge the purchase [113] more important far.

     TAMBURLAINE. Judge by thyself, Theridamas, not me;
     For presently Techelles here shall haste
     To bid him battle ere he pass too far,
     And lose more labour than the gain will quite: [114]
     Then shalt thou see this [115] Scythian Tamburlaine
     Make but a jest to win the Persian crown.--
     Techelles, take a thousand horse with thee,
     And bid him turn him [116] back to war with us,
     That only made him king to make us sport:
     We will not steal upon him cowardly,
     But give him warning and [117] more warriors:
     Haste thee, Techelles; we will follow thee.

          [Exit TECHELLES.]

     What saith Theridamas?

     THERIDAMAS. Go on, for me.

          [Exeunt.]

SCENE VI.

          Enter COSROE, MEANDER, ORTYGIUS, and MENAPHON, with
          SOLDIERS.

     COSROE. What means this devilish shepherd, to aspire
     With such a giantly presumption,
     To cast up hills against the face of heaven,
     And dare the force of angry Jupiter?
     But, as he thrust them underneath the hills,
     And press'd out fire from their burning jaws,
     So will I send this monstrous slave to hell,
     Where flames shall ever feed upon his soul.

     MEANDER. Some powers divine, or else infernal, mix'd
     Their angry seeds at his conception;
     For he was never sprung [118] of human race,
     Since with the spirit of his fearful pride,
     He dares [119] so doubtlessly resolve of rule,
     And by profession be ambitious.

     ORTYGIUS. What god, or fiend, or spirit of the earth,
     Or monster turned to a manly shape,
     Or of what mould or mettle he be made,
     What star or fate [120] soever govern him,
     Let us put on our meet encountering minds;
     And, in detesting such a devilish thief,
     In love of honour and defence of right,
     Be arm'd against the hate of such a foe,
     Whether from earth, or hell, or heaven he grow.

     COSROE. Nobly resolv'd, my good Ortygius;
     And, since we all have suck'd one wholesome air,
     And with the same proportion of elements
     Resolve, [121] I hope we are resembled,
     Vowing our loves to equal death and life.
     Let's cheer our soldiers to encounter him,
     That grievous image of ingratitude,
     That fiery thirster after sovereignty,
     And burn him in the fury of that flame
     That none can quench but blood and empery.
     Resolve, my lords and loving soldiers, now
     To save your king and country from decay.
     Then strike up, drum; and all the stars that make
     The loathsome circle of my dated life,
     Direct my weapon to his barbarous heart,
     That thus opposeth him against the gods,
     And scorns the powers that govern Persia!

          [Exeunt, drums sounding.]

SCENE VII.

          Alarms of battle within.  Then enter COSROE wounded,
          TAMBURLAINE, THERIDAMAS, TECHELLES, USUMCASANE, with others.

     COSROE. Barbarous [122] and bloody Tamburlaine,
     Thus to deprive me of my crown and life!--
     Treacherous and false Theridamas,
     Even at the morning of my happy state,
     Scarce being seated in my royal throne,
     To work my downfall and untimely end!
     An uncouth pain torments my grieved soul;
     And death arrests the organ of my voice,
     Who, entering at the breach thy sword hath made,
     Sacks every vein and artier [123] of my heart.--
     Bloody and insatiate Tamburlaine!

     TAMBURLAINE. The thirst of reign and sweetness of a crown,
     That caus'd the eldest son of heavenly Ops
     To thrust his doting father from his chair,
     And place himself in the empyreal heaven,
     Mov'd me to manage arms against thy state.
     What better precedent than mighty Jove?
     Nature, that fram'd us of four elements
     Warring within our breasts for regiment, [124]
     Doth teach us all to have aspiring minds:
     Our souls, whose faculties can comprehend
     The wondrous architecture of the world,
     And measure every wandering planet's course,
     Still climbing after knowledge infinite,
     And always moving as the restless spheres,
     Will us to wear ourselves, and never rest,
     Until we reach the ripest fruit [125] of all,
     That perfect bliss and sole felicity,
     The sweet fruition of an earthly crown.

     THERIDAMAS. And that made me to join with Tamburlaine;
     For he is gross and like the massy earth
     That moves not upwards, nor by princely deeds
     Doth mean to soar above the highest sort.

     TECHELLES. And that made us, the friends of Tamburlaine,
     To lift our swords against the Persian king.

     USUMCASANE. For as, when Jove did thrust old Saturn down,
     Neptune and Dis gain'd each of them a crown,
     So do we hope to reign in Asia,
     If Tamburlaine be plac'd in Persia.

     COSROE. The strangest men that ever nature made!
     I know not how to take their tyrannies.
     My bloodless body waxeth chill and cold,
     And with my blood my life slides through my wound;
     My soul begins to take her flight to hell,
     And summons all my senses to depart:
     The heat and moisture, which did feed each other,
     For want of nourishment to feed them both,
     Are [126] dry and cold; and now doth ghastly Death
     With greedy talents [127] gripe my bleeding heart,
     And like a harpy [128] tires on my life.--
     Theridamas and Tamburlaine, I die:
     And fearful vengeance light upon you both!

          [Dies.--TAMBURLAINE takes COSROE'S crown, and puts it on
          his own head.]

     TAMBURLAINE. Not all the curses which the [129] Furies breathe
     Shall make me leave so rich a prize as this.
     Theridamas, Techelles, and the rest,
     Who think you now is king of Persia?

     ALL. Tamburlaine!  Tamburlaine!

     TAMBURLAINE. Though Mars himself, the angry god of arms,
     And all the earthly potentates conspire
     To dispossess me of this diadem,
     Yet will I wear it in despite of them,
     As great commander of this eastern world,
     If you but say that Tamburlaine shall reign.

     ALL. Long live Tamburlaine, and reign in Asia!

     TAMBURLAINE. So; now it is more surer on my head
     Than if the gods had held a parliament,
     And all pronounc'd me king of Persia.

          [Exeunt.]

ACT III.

SCENE I.

          Enter BAJAZETH, the KINGS OF FEZ, MOROCCO, and ARGIER, with
          others, in great pomp.

     BAJAZETH. Great kings of Barbary, and my portly bassoes, [130]
     We hear the Tartars and the eastern thieves,
     Under the conduct of one Tamburlaine,
     Presume a bickering with your emperor,
     And think to rouse us from our dreadful siege
     Of the famous Grecian Constantinople.
     You know our army is invincible;
     As many circumcised Turks we have,
     And warlike bands of Christians renied, [131]
     As hath the ocean or the Terrene [132] sea
     Small drops of water when the moon begins
     To join in one her semicircled horns:
     Yet would we not be brav'd with foreign power,
     Nor raise our siege before the Grecians yield,
     Or breathless lie before the city-walls.

     KING OF FEZ. Renowmed [133] emperor and mighty general,
     What, if you sent the bassoes of your guard
     To charge him to remain in Asia,
     Or else to threaten death and deadly arms
     As from the mouth of mighty Bajazeth?

     BAJAZETH. Hie thee, my basso, [134] fast to Persia;
     Tell him thy lord, the Turkish emperor,
     Dread lord of Afric, Europe, and Asia,
     Great king and conqueror of Graecia,
     The ocean, Terrene, and the Coal-black sea,
     The high and highest monarch of the world,
     Wills and commands, (for say not I entreat,)
     Not [135] once to set his foot in [136] Africa,
     Or spread [137] his colours in Graecia,
     Lest he incur the fury of my wrath:
     Tell him I am content to take a truce,
     Because I hear he bears a valiant mind:
     But if, presuming on his silly power,
     He be so mad to manage arms with me,
     Then stay thou with him,--say, I bid thee so;
     And if, before the sun have measur'd heaven [138]
     With triple circuit, thou regreet us not,
     We mean to take his morning's next arise
     For messenger he will not be reclaim'd,
     And mean to fetch thee in despite of him.

     BASSO. Most great and puissant monarch of the earth,
     Your basso will accomplish your behest,
     And shew your pleasure to the Persian,
     As fits the legate of the stately Turk.

          [Exit.]

     KING OF ARGIER. They say he is the king of Persia;
     But, if he dare attempt to stir your siege,
     'Twere requisite he should be ten times more,
     For all flesh quakes at your magnificence.

     BAJAZETH. True, Argier; and tremble[s] at my looks.

     KING OF MOROCCO. The spring is hinder'd by your smothering host;
     For neither rain can fall upon the earth,
     Nor sun reflex his virtuous beams thereon,
     The ground is mantled with such multitudes.

     BAJAZETH. All this is true as holy Mahomet;
     And all the trees are blasted with our breaths.

     KING OF FEZ. What thinks your greatness best to be achiev'd
     In pursuit of the city's overthrow?

     BAJAZETH. I will the captive pioners [139] of Argier
     Cut off the water that by leaden pipes
     Runs to the city from the mountain Carnon;
     Two thousand horse shall forage up and down,
     That no relief or succour come by land;
     And all the sea my galleys countermand:
     Then shall our footmen lie within the trench,
     And with their cannons, mouth'd like Orcus' gulf,
     Batter the walls, and we will enter in;
     And thus the Grecians shall be conquered.

          [Exeunt.]

SCENE II.

          Enter ZENOCRATE, AGYDAS, ANIPPE, with others.

     AGYDAS. Madam Zenocrate, may I presume
     To know the cause of these unquiet fits
     That work such trouble to your wonted rest?
     'Tis more than pity such a heavenly face
     Should by heart's sorrow wax so wan and pale,
     When your offensive rape by Tamburlaine
     (Which of your whole displeasures should be most)
     Hath seem'd to be digested long ago.

     ZENOCRATE. Although it be digested long ago,
     As his exceeding favours have deserv'd,
     And might content the Queen of Heaven, as well
     As it hath chang'd my first-conceiv'd disdain;
     Yet since a farther passion feeds my thoughts
     With ceaseless [140] and disconsolate conceits, [141]
     Which dye my looks so lifeless as they are,
     And might, if my extremes had full events,
     Make me the ghastly counterfeit [142] of death.

     AGYDAS. Eternal heaven sooner be dissolv'd,
     And all that pierceth Phoebus' silver eye,
     Before such hap fall to Zenocrate!

     ZENOCRATE. Ah, life and soul, still hover in his [143] breast,
     And leave my body senseless as the earth,
     Or else unite you [144] to his life and soul,
     That I may live and die with Tamburlaine!

          Enter, behind, TAMBURLAINE, with TECHELLES, and others.

     AGYDAS. With Tamburlaine!  Ah, fair Zenocrate,
     Let not a man so vile and barbarous,
     That holds you from your father in despite,
     And keeps you from the honours of a queen,
     (Being suppos'd his worthless concubine,)
     Be honour'd with your love but for necessity!
     So, now the mighty Soldan hears of you,
     Your highness needs not doubt but in short time
     He will, with Tamburlaine's destruction,
     Redeem you from this deadly servitude.

     ZENOCRATE. Leave [145] to wound me with these words,
     And speak of Tamburlaine as he deserves:
     The entertainment we have had of him
     Is far from villany or servitude,
     And might in noble minds be counted princely.

     AGYDAS. How can you fancy one that looks so fierce,
     Only dispos'd to martial stratagems?
     Who, when he shall embrace you in his arms,
     Will tell how many thousand men he slew;
     And, when you look for amorous discourse,
     Will rattle forth his facts [146] of war and blood,
     Too harsh a subject for your dainty ears.

     ZENOCRATE. As looks the sun through Nilus' flowing stream,
     Or when the Morning holds him in her arms,
     So looks my lordly love, fair Tamburlaine;
     His talk much [147] sweeter than the Muses' song
     They sung for honour 'gainst Pierides, [148]
     Or when Minerva did with Neptune strive:
     And higher would I rear my estimate
     Than Juno, sister to the highest god,
     If I were match'd with mighty Tamburlaine.

     AGYDAS. Yet be not so inconstant in your love,
     But let the young Arabian [149] live in hope,
     After your rescue to enjoy his choice.
     You see, though first the king of Persia,
     Being a shepherd, seem'd to love you much,
     Now, in his majesty, he leaves those looks,
     Those words of favour, and those comfortings,
     And gives no more than common courtesies.

     ZENOCRATE. Thence rise the tears that so distain my cheeks,
     Fearing his love [150] through my unworthiness.

          [TAMBURLAINE goes to her, and takes her away lovingly by
          the hand, looking wrathfully on AGYDAS, and says nothing.
          Exeunt all except AGYDAS.]

     AGYDAS. Betray'd by fortune and suspicious love,
     Threaten'd with frowning wrath and jealousy,
     Surpris'd with fear of [151] hideous revenge,
     I stand aghast; but most astonied
     To see his choler shut in secret thoughts,
     And wrapt in silence of his angry soul:
     Upon his brows was pourtray'd ugly death;
     And in his eyes the fury [152] of his heart,
     That shone [153] as comets, menacing revenge,
     And cast a pale complexion on his cheeks.
     As when the seaman sees the Hyades
     Gather an army of Cimmerian clouds,
     (Auster and Aquilon with winged steeds,
     All sweating, tilt about the watery heavens,
     With shivering spears enforcing thunder-claps,
     And from their shields strike flames of lightning,)
     All-fearful folds his sails, and sounds the main,
     Lifting his prayers to the heavens for aid
     Against the terror of the winds and waves;
     So fares Agydas for the late-felt frowns,
     That send [154] a tempest to my daunted thoughts,
     And make my soul divine her overthrow.

          Re-enter TECHELLES with a naked dagger, and USUMCASANE.

     TECHELLES. See you, Agydas, how the king salutes you!
     He bids you prophesy what it imports.

     AGYDAS. I prophesied before, and now I prove
     The killing frowns of jealousy and love.
     He needed not with words confirm my fear,
     For words are vain where working tools present
     The naked action of my threaten'd end:
     It says, Agydas, thou shalt surely die,
     And of extremities elect the least;
     More honour and less pain it may procure,
     To die by this resolved hand of thine
     Than stay the torments he and heaven have sworn.
     Then haste, Agydas, and prevent the plagues
     Which thy prolonged fates may draw on thee:
     Go wander free from fear of tyrant's rage,
     Removed from the torments and the hell
     Wherewith he may excruciate thy soul;
     And let Agydas by Agydas die,
     And with this stab slumber eternally.

          [Stabs himself.]

     TECHELLES. Usumcasane, see, how right the man
     Hath hit the meaning of my lord the king!

     USUMCASANE. Faith, and, Techelles, it was manly done;
     And, since he was so wise and honourable,
     Let us afford him now the bearing hence,
     And crave his triple-worthy burial.

     TECHELLES. Agreed, Casane; we will honour him.

          [Exeunt, bearing out the body.]

SCENE III.

          Enter TAMBURLAINE, TECHELLES, USUMCASANE, THERIDAMAS,
          a BASSO, ZENOCRATE, ANIPPE, with others.

     TAMBURLAINE. Basso, by this thy lord and master knows
     I mean to meet him in Bithynia:
     See, how he comes! tush, Turks are full of brags,
     And menace [155] more than they can well perform.
     He meet me in the field, and fetch [156] thee hence!
     Alas, poor Turk! his fortune is too weak
     T' encounter with the strength of Tamburlaine:
     View well my camp, and speak indifferently;
     Do not my captains and my soldiers look
     As if they meant to conquer Africa?

     BASSO. Your men are valiant, but their number few,
     And cannot terrify his mighty host:
     My lord, the great commander of the world,
     Besides fifteen contributory kings,
     Hath now in arms ten thousand janizaries,
     Mounted on lusty Mauritanian steeds,
     Brought to the war by men of Tripoly;
     Two hundred thousand footmen that have serv'd
     In two set battles fought in Graecia;
     And for the expedition of this war,
     If he think good, can from his garrisons
     Withdraw as many more to follow him.

     TECHELLES. The more he brings, the greater is the spoil;
     For, when they perish by our warlike hands,
     We mean to set [157] our footmen on their steeds,
     And rifle all those stately janizars.

     TAMBURLAINE. But will those kings accompany your lord?

     BASSO. Such as his highness please; but some must stay
     To rule the provinces he late subdu'd.

     TAMBURLAINE. [To his OFFICERS]
     Then fight courageously:  their crowns are yours;
     This hand shall set them on your conquering heads,
     That made me emperor of Asia.

     USUMCASANE. Let him bring millions infinite of men,
     Unpeopling Western Africa and Greece,
     Yet we assure us of the victory.

     THERIDAMAS. Even he, that in a trice vanquish'd two kings
     More mighty than the Turkish emperor,
     Shall rouse him out of Europe, and pursue
     His scatter'd army till they yield or die.

     TAMBURLAINE. Well said, Theridamas! speak in that mood;
     For WILL and SHALL best fitteth Tamburlaine,
     Whose smiling stars give him assured hope
     Of martial triumph ere he meet his foes.
     I that am term'd the scourge and wrath of God,
     The only fear and terror of the world,
     Will first subdue the Turk, and then enlarge
     Those Christian captives which you keep as slaves,
     Burdening their bodies with your heavy chains,
     And feeding them with thin and slender fare;
     That naked row about the Terrene [158] sea,
     And, when they chance to rest or breathe [159] a space,
     Are punish'd with bastones [160] so grievously
     That they [161] lie panting on the galleys' side,
     And strive for life at every stroke they give.
     These are the cruel pirates of Argier,
     That damned train, the scum of Africa,
     Inhabited with straggling runagates,
     That make quick havoc of the Christian blood:
     But, as I live, that town shall curse the time
     That Tamburlaine set foot in Africa.

          Enter BAJAZETH, BASSOES, the KINGS OF FEZ, MOROCCO,
          and ARGIER; ZABINA and EBEA.

     BAJAZETH. Bassoes and janizaries of my guard,
     Attend upon the person of your lord,
     The greatest potentate of Africa.

     TAMBURLAINE. Techelles and the rest, prepare your swords;
     I mean t' encounter with that Bajazeth.

     BAJAZETH. Kings of Fez, Morocco, [162] and Argier,
     He calls me Bajazeth, whom you call lord!
     Note the presumption of this Scythian slave!--
     I tell thee, villain, those that lead my horse
     Have to their names titles [163] of dignity;
     And dar'st thou bluntly call me Bajazeth?

     TAMBURLAINE. And know, thou Turk, that those which lead my horse
     Shall lead thee captive thorough Africa;
     And dar'st thou bluntly call me Tamburlaine?

     BAJAZETH. By Mahomet my kinsman's sepulchre,
     And by the holy Alcoran I swear,
     He shall be made a chaste and lustless eunuch,
     And in my sarell [164] tend my concubines;
     And all his captains, that thus stoutly stand,
     Shall draw the chariot of my emperess,
     Whom I have brought to see their overthrow!

     TAMBURLAINE. By this my sword that conquer'd Persia,
     Thy fall shall make me famous through the world!
     I will not tell thee how I'll [165] handle thee,
     But every common soldier of my camp
     Shall smile to see thy miserable state.

     KING OF FEZ. What means the [166] mighty Turkish emperor,
     To talk with one so base as Tamburlaine?

     KING OF MOROCCO. Ye Moors and valiant men of Barbary.
     How can ye suffer these indignities?

     KING OF ARGIER. Leave words, and let them feel your lances'
     points,
     Which glided through the bowels of the Greeks.

     BAJAZETH. Well said, my stout contributory kings!
     Your threefold army and my hugy [167] host
     Shall swallow up these base-born Persians.

     TECHELLES. Puissant, renowm'd, [168] and mighty Tamburlaine,
     Why stay we thus prolonging of [169] their lives?

     THERIDAMAS. I long to see those crowns won by our swords,
     That we may rule [170] as kings of Africa.

     USUMCASANE. What coward would not fight for such a prize?

     TAMBURLAINE. Fight all courageously, and be you kings:
     I speak it, and my words are oracles.

     BAJAZETH. Zabina, mother of three braver [171] boys
     Than Hercules, that in his infancy
     Did pash [172] the jaws of serpents venomous;
     Whose hands are made to gripe a warlike lance,
     Their shoulders broad for complete armour fit,
     Their limbs more large and of a bigger size
     Than all the brats y-sprung [173] from Typhon's loins;
     Who, when they come unto their father's age,
     Will batter turrets with their manly fists;--
     Sit here upon this royal chair of state,
     And on thy head wear my imperial crown,
     Until I bring this sturdy Tamburlaine
     And all his captains bound in captive chains.

     ZABINA. Such good success happen to Bajazeth!

     TAMBURLAINE. Zenocrate, the loveliest maid alive,
     Fairer than rocks of pearl and precious stone,
     The only paragon of Tamburlaine;
     Whose eyes are brighter than the lamps of heaven,
     And speech more pleasant than sweet harmony;
     That with thy looks canst clear the darken'd sky,
     And calm the rage of thundering Jupiter;
     Sit down by her, adorned with my crown,
     As if thou wert the empress of the world.
     Stir not, Zenocrate, until thou see
     Me march victoriously with all my men,
     Triumphing over him and these his kings,
     Which I will bring as vassals to thy feet;
     Till then, take thou my crown, vaunt of my worth,
     And manage words with her, as we will arms.

     ZENOCRATE. And may my love, the king of Persia,
     Return with victory and free from wound!

     BAJAZETH. Now shalt thou feel the force of Turkish arms,
     Which lately made all Europe quake for fear.
     I have of Turks, Arabians, Moors, and Jews,
     Enough to cover all Bithynia:
     Let thousands die; their slaughter'd carcasses
     Shall serve for walls and bulwarks to the rest;
     And as the heads of Hydra, so my power,
     Subdu'd, shall stand as mighty as before:
     If they should yield their necks unto the sword,
     Thy soldiers' arms could not endure to strike
     So many blows as I have heads for them. [174]
     Thou know'st not, foolish-hardy Tamburlaine,
     What 'tis to meet me in the open field,
     That leave no ground for thee to march upon.

     TAMBURLAINE. Our conquering swords shall marshal us the way
     We use to march upon the slaughter'd foe,
     Trampling their bowels with our horses' hoofs,
     Brave horses bred on the [175] white Tartarian hills
     My camp is like to Julius Caesar's host,
     That never fought but had the victory;
     Nor in Pharsalia was there such hot war
     As these, my followers, willingly would have.
     Legions of spirits, fleeting in the air,
     Direct our bullets and our weapons' points,
     And make your strokes to wound the senseless light; [176]
     And when she sees our bloody colours spread,
     Then Victory begins to take her flight,
     Resting herself upon my milk-white tent.--
     But come, my lords, to weapons let us fall;
     The field is ours, the Turk, his wife, and all.

          [Exit with his followers.]

     BAJAZETH. Come, kings and bassoes, let us glut our swords,
     That thirst to drink the feeble Persians' blood.

          [Exit with his followers.]

     ZABINA. Base concubine, must thou be plac'd by me
     That am the empress of the mighty Turk?

     ZENOCRATE. Disdainful Turkess, and unreverend boss, [177]
     Call'st thou me concubine, that am betroth'd
     Unto the great and mighty Tamburlaine?

     ZABINA. To Tamburlaine, the great Tartarian thief!

     ZENOCRATE. Thou wilt repent these lavish words of thine
     When thy great basso-master and thyself
     Must plead for mercy at his kingly feet,
     And sue to me to be your advocate. [178]

     ZABINA. And sue to thee!  I tell thee, shameless girl,
     Thou shalt be laundress to my waiting-maid.--
     How lik'st thou her, Ebea? will she serve?

     EBEA. Madam, she thinks perhaps she is too fine;
     But I shall turn her into other weeds,
     And make her dainty fingers fall to work.

     ZENOCRATE. Hear'st thou, Anippe, how thy drudge doth talk?
     And how my slave, her mistress, menaceth?
     Both for their sauciness shall be employ'd
     To dress the common soldiers' meat and drink;
     For we will scorn they should come near ourselves.

     ANIPPE. Yet sometimes let your highness send for them
     To do the work my chambermaid disdains.

          [They sound to the battle within.]

     ZENOCRATE. Ye gods and powers that govern Persia,
     And made my lordly love her worthy king,
     Now strengthen him against the Turkish Bajazeth,
     And let his foes, like flocks of fearful roes
     Pursu'd by hunters, fly his angry looks,
     That I may see him issue conqueror!

     ZABINA. Now, Mahomet, solicit God himself,
     And make him rain down murdering shot from heaven,
     To dash the Scythians' brains, and strike them dead,
     That dare [179] to manage arms with him
     That offer'd jewels to thy sacred shrine
     When first he warr'd against the Christians!

          [They sound again to the battle within.]

     ZENOCRATE. By this the Turks lie weltering in their blood,
     And Tamburlaine is lord of Africa.

     ZABINA. Thou art deceiv'd.  I heard the trumpets sound
     As when my emperor overthrew the Greeks,
     And led them captive into Africa.
     Straight will I use thee as thy pride deserves;
     Prepare thyself to live and die my slave.

     ZENOCRATE. If Mahomet should come from heaven and swear
     My royal lord is slain or conquered,
     Yet should he not persuade me otherwise
     But that he lives and will be conqueror.

          Re-enter BAJAZETH, pursued by TAMBURLAINE. [180]

     TAMBURLAINE. Now, king of bassoes, who is conqueror?

     BAJAZETH. Thou, by the fortune of this damned foil. [181]

     TAMBURLAINE. Where are your stout contributory kings?

          Re-enter TECHELLES, THERIDAMAS, and USUMCASANE.

     TECHELLES. We have their crowns; their bodies strow the field.

     TAMBURLAINE. Each man a crown! why, kingly fought, i'faith.
     Deliver them into my treasury.

     ZENOCRATE. Now let me offer to my gracious lord
     His royal crown again so highly won.

     TAMBURLAINE. Nay, take the Turkish crown from her, Zenocrate,
     And crown me emperor of Africa.

     ZABINA. No, Tamburlaine; though now thou gat [182] the best,
     Thou shalt not yet be lord of Africa.

     THERIDAMAS. Give her the crown, Turkess, you were best.

          [Takes it from her.]

     ZABINA. Injurious villains, thieves, runagates,
     How dare you thus abuse my majesty?

     THERIDAMAS. Here, madam, you are empress; she is none.

          [Gives it to ZENOCRATE.]

     TAMBURLAINE. Not now, Theridamas; her time is past:
     The pillars, that have bolster'd up those terms,
     Are faln in clusters at my conquering feet.

     ZABINA. Though he be prisoner, he may be ransom'd.

     TAMBURLAINE. Not all the world shall ransom Bajazeth.

     BAJAZETH. Ah, fair Zabina! we have lost the field;
     And never had the Turkish emperor
     So great a foil by any foreign foe.
     Now will the Christian miscreants be glad,
     Ringing with joy their superstitious bells,
     And making bonfires for my overthrow:
     But, ere I die, those foul idolaters
     Shall make me bonfires with their filthy bones;
     For, though the glory of this day be lost,
     Afric and Greece have garrisons enough
     To make me sovereign of the earth again.

     TAMBURLAINE. Those walled garrisons will I subdue,
     And write myself great lord of Africa:
     So from the East unto the furthest West
     Shall Tamburlaine extend his puissant arm.
     The galleys and those pilling [183] brigandines,
     That yearly sail to the Venetian gulf,
     And hover in the Straits for Christians' wreck,
     Shall lie at anchor in the Isle Asant,
     Until the Persian fleet and men-of-war,
     Sailing along the oriental sea,
     Have fetch'd about the Indian continent,
     Even from Persepolis to Mexico,
     And thence unto the Straits of Jubalter;
     Where they shall meet and join their force in one.
     Keeping in awe the Bay of Portingale,
     And all the ocean by the British [184] shore;
     And by this means I'll win the world at last.

     BAJAZETH. Yet set a ransom on me, Tamburlaine.

     TAMBURLAINE. What, think'st thou Tamburlaine esteems thy gold?
     I'll make the kings of India, ere I die,
     Offer their mines, to sue for peace, to me,
     And dig for treasure to appease my wrath.--
     Come, bind them both, and one lead in the Turk;
     The Turkess let my love's maid lead away,

          [They bind them.]

     BAJAZETH. Ah, villains, dare you touch my sacred arms?--
     O Mahomet!  O sleepy Mahomet!

     ZABINA. O cursed Mahomet, that mak'st us thus
     The slaves to Scythians rude and barbarous!

     TAMBURLAINE. Come, bring them in; and for this happy conquest
     Triumph, and solemnize a martial [185] feast.

          [Exeunt.]

ACT IV.

SCENE I.

          Enter the SOLDAN OF EGYPT, CAPOLIN, LORDS, and a MESSENGER.

     SOLDAN. Awake, ye men of Memphis! [186] hear the clang
     Of Scythian trumpets; hear the basilisks, [187]
     That, roaring, shake Damascus' turrets down!
     The rogue of Volga holds Zenocrate,
     The Soldan's daughter, for his concubine,
     And, with a troop of thieves and vagabonds,
     Hath spread his colours to our high disgrace,
     While you, faint-hearted base Egyptians,
     Lie slumbering on the flowery banks of Nile,
     As crocodiles that unaffrighted rest
     While thundering cannons rattle on their skins.

     MESSENGER. Nay, mighty Soldan, did your greatness see
     The frowning looks of fiery Tamburlaine,
     That with his terror and imperious eyes
     Commands the hearts of his associates,
     It might amaze your royal majesty.

     SOLDAN. Villain, I tell thee, were that Tamburlaine
     As monstrous [188] as Gorgon prince of hell,
     The Soldan would not start a foot from him.
     But speak, what power hath he?

     MESSENGER. Mighty lord,
     Three hundred thousand men in armour clad,
     Upon their prancing steeds, disdainfully
     With wanton paces trampling on the ground;
     Five hundred thousand footmen threatening shot,
     Shaking their swords, their spears, and iron bills,
     Environing their standard round, that stood
     As bristle-pointed as a thorny wood;
     Their warlike engines and munition
     Exceed the forces of their martial men.

     SOLDAN. Nay, could their numbers countervail the stars,
     Or ever-drizzling [189] drops of April showers,
     Or wither'd leaves that autumn shaketh down,
     Yet would the Soldan by his conquering power
     So scatter and consume them in his rage,
     That not a man should [190] live to rue their fall.

     CAPOLIN. So might your highness, had you time to sort
     Your fighting men, and raise your royal host;
     But Tamburlaine by expedition
     Advantage takes of your unreadiness.

     SOLDAN. Let him take all th' advantages he can:
     Were all the world conspir'd to fight for him,
     Nay, were he devil, [191] as he is no man,
     Yet in revenge of fair Zenocrate,
     Whom he detaineth in despite of us,
     This arm should send him down to Erebus,
     To shroud his shame in darkness of the night.

     MESSENGER. Pleaseth your mightiness to understand,
     His resolution far exceedeth all.
     The first day when he pitcheth down his tents,
     White is their hue, and on his silver crest
     A snowy feather spangled-white he bears,
     To signify the mildness of his mind,
     That, satiate with spoil, refuseth blood:
     But, when Aurora mounts the second time,
     As red as scarlet is his furniture;
     Then must his kindled wrath be quench'd with blood,
     Not sparing any that can manage arms:
     But, if these threats move not submission,
     Black are his colours, black pavilion;
     His spear, his shield, his horse, his armour, plumes,
     And jetty feathers, menace death and hell;
     Without respect of sex, degree, or age,
     He razeth all his foes with fire and sword.

     SOLDAN. Merciless villain, peasant, ignorant
     Of lawful arms or martial discipline!
     Pillage and murder are his usual trades:
     The slave usurps the glorious name of war.
     See, Capolin, the fair Arabian king, [192]
     That hath been disappointed by this slave
     Of my fair daughter and his princely love,
     May have fresh warning to go war with us,
     And be reveng'd for her disparagement.

          [Exeunt.]

SCENE II.

          Enter TAMBURLAINE, TECHELLES, THERIDAMAS, USUMCASANE,
          ZENOCRATE, ANIPPE, two MOORS drawing BAJAZETH in a cage,
          and ZABINA following him.

     TAMBURLAINE. Bring out my footstool.

          [They take BAJAZETH out of the cage.]

     BAJAZETH. Ye holy priests of heavenly Mahomet,
     That, sacrificing, slice and cut your flesh,
     Staining his altars with your purple blood,
     Make heaven to frown, and every fixed star
     To suck up poison from the moorish fens,
     And pour it [193] in this glorious tyrant's throat!

     TAMBURLAINE. The chiefest god, first mover of that sphere
     Enchas'd with thousands ever-shining lamps,
     Will sooner burn the glorious frame of heaven
     Than it should [194] so conspire my overthrow.
     But, villain, thou that wishest this [195] to me,
     Fall prostrate on the low disdainful earth,
     And be the footstool of great Tamburlaine,
     That I may rise into [196] my royal throne.

     BAJAZETH. First shalt thou rip my bowels with thy sword,
     And sacrifice my heart [197] to death and hell,
     Before I yield to such a slavery.

     TAMBURLAINE. Base villain, vassal, slave to Tamburlaine,
     Unworthy to embrace or touch the ground
     That bears the honour of my royal weight;
     Stoop, villain, stoop! stoop; [198] for so he bids
     That may command thee piecemeal to be torn,
     Or scatter'd like the lofty cedar-trees
     Struck with the voice of thundering Jupiter.

     BAJAZETH. Then, as I look down to the damned fiends,
     Fiends, look on me! and thou, dread god of hell,
     With ebon sceptre strike this hateful earth,
     And make it swallow both of us at once!

          [TAMBURLAINE gets up on him into his chair.]

     TAMBURLAINE. Now clear the triple region of the air,
     And let the Majesty of Heaven behold
     Their scourge and terror tread on emperors.
     Smile, stars that reign'd at my nativity,
     And dim the brightness of your [199] neighbour lamps;
     Disdain to borrow light of Cynthia!
     For I, the chiefest lamp of all the earth,
     First rising in the east with mild aspect,
     But fixed now in the meridian line,
     Will send up fire to your turning spheres,
     And cause the sun to borrow light of you.
     My sword struck fire from his coat of steel,
     Even in Bithynia, when I took this Turk;
     As when a fiery exhalation,
     Wrapt in the bowels of a freezing cloud,
     Fighting for passage, make[s] the welkin crack,
     And casts a flash of lightning to [200] the earth:
     But, ere I march to wealthy Persia,
     Or leave Damascus and th' Egyptian fields,
     As was the fame of Clymene's brain-sick son
     That almost brent [201] the axle-tree of heaven,
     So shall our swords, our lances, and our shot
     Fill all the air with fiery meteors;
     Then, when the sky shall wax as red as blood,
     It shall be said I made it red myself,
     To make me think of naught but blood and war.

     ZABINA. Unworthy king, that by thy cruelty
     Unlawfully usurp'st the Persian seat,
     Dar'st thou, that never saw an emperor
     Before thou met my husband in the field,
     Being thy captive, thus abuse his state,
     Keeping his kingly body in a cage,
     That roofs of gold and sun-bright palaces
     Should have prepar'd to entertain his grace?
     And treading him beneath thy loathsome feet,
     Whose feet the kings [202] of Africa have kiss'd?

     TECHELLES. You must devise some torment worse, my lord,
     To make these captives rein their lavish tongues.

     TAMBURLAINE. Zenocrate, look better to your slave.

     ZENOCRATE. She is my handmaid's slave, and she shall look
     That these abuses flow not from [203] her tongue.--
     Chide her, Anippe.

     ANIPPE. Let these be warnings, then, for you, [204] my slave,
     How you abuse the person of the king;
     Or else I swear to have you whipt stark nak'd. [205]

     BAJAZETH. Great Tamburlaine, great in my overthrow,
     Ambitious pride shall make thee fall as low,
     For treading on the back of Bajazeth,
     That should be horsed on four mighty kings.

     TAMBURLAINE. Thy names, and titles, and thy dignities [206]
     Are fled from Bajazeth, and remain with me,
     That will maintain it 'gainst a world of kings.--
     Put him in again.

          [They put him into the cage.]

     BAJAZETH. Is this a place for mighty Bajazeth?
     Confusion light on him that helps thee thus!

     TAMBURLAINE. There, whiles [207] he lives, shall Bajazeth be kept;
     And, where I go, be thus in triumph drawn;
     And thou, his wife, shalt [208] feed him with the scraps
     My servitors shall bring thee from my board;
     For he that gives him other food than this,
     Shall sit by him, and starve to death himself:
     This is my mind, and I will have it so.
     Not all the kings and emperors of the earth,
     If they would lay their crowne before my feet,
     Shall ransom him, or take him from his cage:
     The ages that shall talk of Tamburlaine,
     Even from this day to Plato's wondrous year,
     Shall talk how I have handled Bajazeth:
     These Moors, that drew him from Bithynia
     To fair Damascus, where we now remain,
     Shall lead him with us wheresoe'er we go.--
     Techelles, and my loving followers,
     Now may we see Damascus' lofty towers,
     Like to the shadows of Pyramides
     That with their beauties grace [209] the Memphian fields.
     The golden stature [210] of their feather'd bird, [211]
     That spreads her wings upon the city-walls,
     Shall not defend it from our battering shot:
     The townsmen mask in silk and cloth of gold,
     And every house is as a treasury;
     The men, the treasure, and the town are [212] ours.

     THERIDAMAS. Your tents of white now pitch'd before the gates,
     And gentle flags of amity display'd,
     I doubt not but the governor will yield,
     Offering Damascus to your majesty.

     TAMBURLAINE. So shall he have his life, and all the rest:
     But, if he stay until the bloody flag
     Be once advanc'd on my vermilion tent,
     He dies, and those that kept us out so long;
     And, when they see me march in black array,
     With mournful streamers hanging down their heads,
     Were in that city all the world contain'd,
     Not one should scape, but perish by our swords.

     ZENOCRATE. Yet would you have some pity for my sake,
     Because it is my country [213] and my father's.

     TAMBURLAINE. Not for the world, Zenocrate, if I have sworn.--
     Come; bring in the Turk.

          [Exeunt.]

SCENE III.

          Enter SOLDAN, KING OF ARABIA, [214] CAPOLIN, and SOLDIERS,
          with streaming colours.

     SOLDAN. Methinks we march as Meleager did,
     Environed with brave Argolian knights,
     To chase the savage Calydonian [215] boar,
     Or Cephalus, with lusty [216] Theban youths,
     Against the wolf that angry Themis sent
     To waste and spoil the sweet Aonian fields.
     A monster of five hundred thousand heads,
     Compact of rapine, piracy, and spoil,
     The scum of men, the hate and scourge of God,
     Raves in Aegyptia, and annoyeth us:
     My lord, it is the bloody Tamburlaine,
     A sturdy felon, and [217] a base-bred thief,
     By murder raised to the Persian crown,
     That dare control us in our territories.
     To tame the pride of this presumptuous beast,
     Join your Arabians with the Soldan's power;
     Let us unite our royal bands in one,
     And hasten to remove Damascus' siege.
     It is a blemish to the majesty
     And high estate of mighty emperors,
     That such a base usurping vagabond
     Should brave a king, or wear a princely crown.

     KING OF ARABIA. Renowmed [218] Soldan, have you lately heard
     The overthrow of mighty Bajazeth
     About the confines of Bithynia?
     The slavery wherewith he persecutes
     The noble Turk and his great emperess?

     SOLDAN. I have, and sorrow for his bad success;
     But, noble lord of great Arabia,
     Be so persuaded that the Soldan is
     No more dismay'd with tidings of his fall,
     Than in the haven when the pilot stands,
     And views a stranger's ship rent in the winds,
     And shivered against a craggy rock:
     Yet in compassion to his wretched state,
     A sacred vow to heaven and him I make,
     Confirming it with Ibis' holy name, [219]
     That Tamburlaine shall rue the day, the [220] hour,
     Wherein he wrought such ignominious wrong
     Unto the hallow'd person of a prince,
     Or kept the fair Zenocrate so long,
     As concubine, I fear, to feed his lust.

     KING OF ARABIA. Let grief and fury hasten on revenge;
     Let Tamburlaine for his offences feel
     Such plagues as heaven and we can pour on him:
     I long to break my spear upon his crest,
     And prove the weight of his victorious arm;
     For fame, I fear, hath been too prodigal
     In sounding through the world his partial praise.

     SOLDAN. Capolin, hast thou survey'd our powers?

     CAPOLIN. Great emperors of Egypt and Arabia,
     The number of your hosts united is,
     A hundred and fifty thousand horse,
     Two hundred thousand foot, brave men-at-arms,
     Courageous and [221] full of hardiness,
     As frolic as the hunters in the chase
     Of savage beasts amid the desert woods.

     KING OF ARABIA. My mind presageth fortunate success;
     And, Tamburlaine, my spirit doth foresee
     The utter ruin of thy men and thee.

     SOLDAN. Then rear your standards; let your sounding drums
     Direct our soldiers to Damascus' walls.--
     Now, Tamburlaine, the mighty Soldan comes,
     And leads with him the great Arabian king,
     To dim thy baseness and [222] obscurity,
     Famous for nothing but for theft and spoil;
     To raze and scatter thy inglorious crew
     Of Scythians and slavish Persians.

          [Exeunt.]

SCENE IV.

          A banquet set out; and to it come TAMBURLAINE all in
          scarlet, ZENOCRATE, THERIDAMAS, TECHELLES, USUMCASANE,
          BAJAZETH drawn in his cage, ZABINA, and others.

     TAMBURLAINE. Now hang our bloody colours by Damascus,
     Reflexing hues of blood upon their heads,
     While they walk quivering on their city-walls,
     Half-dead for fear before they feel my wrath.
     Then let us freely banquet, and carouse
     Full bowls of wine unto the god of war,
     That means to fill your helmets full of gold,
     And make Damascus' spoils as rich to you
     As was to Jason Colchos' golden fleece.--
     And now, Bajazeth, hast thou any stomach?

     BAJAZETH. Ay, such a stomach, cruel Tamburlaine, as I could
     willingly feed upon thy blood-raw heart.

     TAMBURLAINE. Nay, thine own is easier to come by:  pluck out
     that; and 'twill serve thee and thy wife.--Well, Zenocrate,
     Techelles, and the rest, fall to your victuals.

     BAJAZETH. Fall to, and never may your meat digest!--
     Ye Furies, that can mask [223] invisible,
     Dive to the bottom of Avernus' pool,
     And in your hands bring hellish poison up,
     And squeeze it in the cup of Tamburlaine!
     Or, winged snakes of Lerna, cast your stings,
     And leave your venoms in this tyrant's dish?

     ZABINA. And may this banquet prove as ominous
     As Progne's to th' adulterous Thracian king
     That fed upon the substance of his child!

     ZENOCRATE. My lord, [224] how can you suffer these
     Outrageous curses by these slaves of yours?

     TAMBURLAINE. To let them see, divine Zenocrate,
     I glory in the curses of my foes,
     Having the power from the empyreal heaven
     To turn them all upon their proper heads.

     TECHELLES. I pray you, give them leave, madam; this speech
     is a goodly refreshing for them. [225]

     THERIDAMAS. But, if his highness would let them be fed,
     it would do them more good.

     TAMBURLAINE. Sirrah, why fall you not to? are you so daintily
     brought up, you cannot eat your own flesh?

     BAJAZETH. First, legions of devils shall tear thee in pieces.

     USUMCASANE. Villain, knowest thou to whom thou speakest?

     TAMBURLAINE. O, let him alone.--Here; [226] eat, sir; take it
     from [227] my sword's point, or I'll thrust it to thy heart.

          [BAJAZETH takes the food, and stamps upon it.]

     THERIDAMAS. He stamps it under his feet, my lord.

     TAMBURLAINE. Take it up, villain, and eat it; or I will make thee
     slice [228] the brawns of thy arms into carbonadoes and eat them.

     USUMCASANE. Nay, 'twere better he killed his wife, and then she
     shall be sure not to be starved, and he be provided for a month's
     victual beforehand.

     TAMBURLAINE. Here is my dagger:  despatch her while she is fat;
     for, if she live but a while longer, she will fall [229] into a
     consumption with fretting, and then she will not be worth the
     eating.

     THERIDAMAS. Dost thou think that Mahomet will suffer this?

     TECHELLES. 'Tis like he will, when he cannot let [230] it.

     TAMBURLAINE. Go to; fall to your meat.  What, not a bit!--Belike
     he hath not been watered to-day:  give him some drink.

          [They give BAJAZETH water to drink, and he flings it on
          the ground.]

     Fast, and welcome, sir, while [231] hunger make you eat.--How now,
     Zenocrate! doth not the Turk and his wife make a goodly show at a
     banquet?

     ZENOCRATE. Yes, my lord.

     THERIDAMAS.
     Methinks 'tis a great deal better than a consort [232] of music.

     TAMBURLAINE. Yet music would do well to cheer up Zenocrate.
     Pray thee, tell why art thou so sad? if thou wilt have a song,
     the Turk shall strain his voice:  but why is it?

     ZENOCRATE. My lord, to see my father's town besieg'd,
     The country wasted where myself was born,
     How can it but afflict my very soul?
     If any love remain in you, my lord,
     Or if my love unto your majesty
     May merit favour at your highness' hands,
     Then raise your siege from fair Damascus' walls,
     And with my father take a friendly truce.

     TAMBURLAINE. Zenocrate, were Egypt Jove's own land,
     Yet would I with my sword make Jove to stoop.
     I will confute those blind geographers
     That make a triple region in the world,
     Excluding regions which I mean to trace,
     And with this pen [233] reduce them to a map,
     Calling the provinces, cities, and towns,
     After my name and thine, Zenocrate:
     Here at Damascus will I make the point
     That shall begin the perpendicular:
     And wouldst thou have me buy thy father's love
     With such a loss? tell me, Zenocrate.

     ZENOCRATE. Honour still wait on happy Tamburlaine!
     Yet give me leave to plead for him, my lord.

     TAMBURLAINE. Content thyself:  his person shall be safe,
     And all the friends of fair Zenocrate,
     If with their lives they will be pleas'd to yield,
     Or may be forc'd to make me emperor;
     For Egypt and Arabia must be mine.--
     Feed, you slave; thou mayst think thyself happy to be fed from
     my trencher.

     BAJAZETH. My empty stomach, full of idle heat,
     Draws bloody humours from my feeble parts,
     Preserving life by hastening [234] cruel death.
     My veins are pale; my sinews hard and dry;
     My joints benumb'd; unless I eat, I die.

     ZABINA. Eat, Bajazeth; let us live in spite of them, looking
     some happy power will pity and enlarge us.

     TAMBURLAINE. Here, Turk; wilt thou have a clean trencher?

     BAJAZETH. Ay, tyrant, and more meat.

     TAMBURLAINE. Soft, sir! you must be dieted; too much eating
     will make you surfeit.

     THERIDAMAS. So it would, my lord, 'specially [235] having so small
     a walk and so little exercise.

          [A second course is brought in of crowns.]

     TAMBURLAINE. Theridamas, Techelles, and Casane, here are the
     cates you desire to finger, are they not?

     THERIDAMAS. Ay, my lord:  but none save kings must feed with
     these.

     TECHELLES. 'Tis enough for us to see them, and for Tamburlaine
     only to enjoy them.

     TAMBURLAINE. Well; here is now to the Soldan of Egypt, the King
     of Arabia, and the Governor of Damascus.   Now, take these three
     crowns, and pledge me, my contributory kings.  I crown you here,
     Theridamas, king of Argier; Techelles, king of Fez; and
     Usumcasane, king of Morocco. [236]--How say you to this, Turk? these are
     not your contributory kings.

     BAJAZETH. Nor shall they long be thine, I warrant them.

     TAMBURLAINE. Kings of Argier, Morocco, and of Fez,
     You that have march'd with happy Tamburlaine
     As far as from the frozen plage [237] of heaven
     Unto the watery Morning's ruddy bower,
     And thence by land unto the torrid zone,
     Deserve these titles I endow you with
     By valour [238] and by magnanimity.
     Your births shall be no blemish to your fame;
     For virtue is the fount whence honour springs,
     And they are worthy she investeth kings.

     THERIDAMAS. And, since your highness hath so well vouchsaf'd,
     If we deserve them not with higher meeds
     Than erst our states and actions have retain'd,
     Take them away again, [239] and make us slaves.

     TAMBURLAINE. Well said, Theridamas:  when holy Fates
     Shall stablish me in strong Aegyptia,
     We mean to travel to th' antarctic pole,
     Conquering the people underneath our feet,
     And be renowm'd [240] as never emperors were.--
     Zenocrate, I will not crown thee yet,
     Until with greater honours I be grac'd.

          [Exeunt.]

ACT V.

SCENE I.

          Enter the GOVERNOR OF DAMASCUS [241] with three or four
          CITIZENS, and four VIRGINS with branches of laurel in
          their hands.

     GOVERNOR. Still doth this man, or rather god of war,
     Batter our walls and beat our turrets down;
     And to resist with longer stubbornness,
     Or hope of rescue from the Soldan's power,
     Were but to bring our wilful overthrow,
     And make us desperate of our threaten'd lives.
     We see his tents have now been altered
     With terrors to the last and cruel'st hue;
     His coal-black colours, every where advanc'd,
     Threaten our city with a general spoil;
     And, if we should with common rites of arms
     Offer our safeties to his clemency,
     I fear the custom proper to his sword,
     Which he observes as parcel of his fame,
     Intending so to terrify the world,
     By any innovation or remorse [242]
     Will never be dispens'd with till our deaths.
     Therefore, for these our harmless virgins' sakes, [243]
     Whose honours and whose lives rely on him,
     Let us have hope that their unspotted prayers,
     Their blubber'd [244] cheeks, and hearty humble moans,
     Will melt his fury into some remorse,
     And use us like a loving conqueror. [245]

     FIRST VIRGIN. If humble suite or imprecations
     (Utter'd with tears of wretchedness and blood
     Shed from the heads and hearts of all our sex,
     Some made your wives, and some your children,)
     Might have entreated your obdurate breasts
     To entertain some care [246] of our securities
     Whiles only danger beat upon our walls,
     These more than dangerous warrants of our death
     Had never been erected as they be,
     Nor you depend on such weak helps [247] as we.

     GOVERNOR. Well, lovely virgins, think our country's care,
     Our love of honour, loath to be enthrall'd
     To foreign powers and rough imperious yokes,
     Would not with too much cowardice or [248] fear,
     Before all hope of rescue were denied,
     Submit yourselves and us to servitude.
     Therefore, in that your safeties and our own,
     Your honours, liberties, and lives were weigh'd
     In equal care and balance with our own,
     Endure as we the malice of our stars,
     The wrath of Tamburlaine and power [249] of wars;
     Or be the means the overweighing heavens
     Have kept to qualify these hot extremes,
     And bring us pardon in your cheerful looks.

     SECOND VIRGIN. Then here, before the Majesty of Heaven
     And holy patrons of Aegyptia,
     With knees and hearts submissive we entreat
     Grace to our words and pity to our looks,
     That this device may prove propitious,
     And through the eyes and ears of Tamburlaine
     Convey events of mercy to his heart;
     Grant that these signs of victory we yield
     May bind the temples of his conquering head,
     To hide the folded furrows of his brows,
     And shadow his displeased countenance
     With happy looks of ruth and lenity.
     Leave us, my lord, and loving countrymen:
     What simple virgins may persuade, we will.

     GOVERNOR. Farewell, sweet virgins, on whose safe return
     Depends our city, liberty, and lives.

          [Exeunt all except the VIRGINS.]

          Enter TAMBURLAINE, all in black and very melancholy,
          TECHELLES, THERIDAMAS, USUMCASANE, with others.

     TAMBURLAINE. What, are the turtles fray'd out of their nests?
     Alas, poor fools, must you be first shall feel
     The sworn destruction of Damascus?
     They knew [250] my custom; could they not as well
     Have sent ye out when first my milk-white flags,
     Through which sweet Mercy threw her gentle beams,
     Reflexed [251] them on their [252] disdainful eyes,
     As [253] now when fury and incensed hate
     Flings slaughtering terror from my coal-black tents, [254]
     And tells for truth submission [255] comes too late?

     FIRST VIRGIN. Most happy king and emperor of the earth,
     Image of honour and nobility,
     For whom the powers divine have made the world,
     And on whose throne the holy Graces sit;
     In whose sweet person is compris'd the sum
     Of Nature's skill and heavenly majesty;
     Pity our plights!  O, pity poor Damascus!
     Pity old age, within whose silver hairs
     Honour and reverence evermore have reign'd!
     Pity the marriage-bed, where many a lord,
     In prime and glory of his loving joy,
     Embraceth now with tears of ruth and [256] blood
     The jealous body of his fearful wife,
     Whose cheeks and hearts, so punish'd with conceit, [257]
     To think thy puissant never-stayed arm
     Will part their bodies, and prevent their souls
     From heavens of comfort yet their age might bear,
     Now wax all pale and wither'd to the death,
     As well for grief our ruthless governor
     Hath [258] thus refus'd the mercy of thy hand,
     (Whose sceptre angels kiss and Furies dread,)
     As for their liberties, their loves, or lives!
     O, then, for these, and such as we ourselves,
     For us, for infants, and for all our bloods,
     That never nourish'd [259] thought against thy rule,
     Pity, O, pity, sacred emperor,
     The prostrate service of this wretched town;
     And take in sign thereof this gilded wreath,
     Whereto each man of rule hath given his hand,
     And wish'd, [260] as worthy subjects, happy means
     To be investers of thy royal brows
     Even with the true Egyptian diadem!

     TAMBURLAINE. Virgins, in vain you labour to prevent
     That which mine honour swears shall be perform'd.
     Behold my sword; what see you at the point?

     FIRST VIRGIN. Nothing but fear and fatal steel, my lord.

     TAMBURLAINE. Your fearful minds are thick and misty, then,
     For there sits Death; there sits imperious [261] Death,
     Keeping his circuit by the slicing edge.
     But I am pleas'd you shall not see him there;
     He now is seated on my horsemen's spears,
     And on their points his fleshless body feeds.--
     Techelles, straight go charge a few of them
     To charge these dames, and shew my servant Death,
     Sitting in scarlet on their armed spears.

     VIRGINS. O, pity us!

     TAMBURLAINE. Away with them, I say, and shew them Death!
          [The VIRGINS are taken out by TECHELLES and others.]
     I will not spare these proud Egyptians,
     Nor change my martial observations
     For all the wealth of Gihon's golden waves,
     Or for the love of Venus, would she leave
     The angry god of arms and lie with me.
     They have refus'd the offer of their lives,
     And know my customs are as peremptory
     As wrathful planets, death, or destiny.

          Re-enter TECHELLES.

     What, have your horsemen shown the virgins Death?

     TECHELLES. They have, my lord, and on Damascus' walls
     Have hoisted up their slaughter'd carcasses.

     TAMBURLAINE. A sight as baneful to their souls, I think,
     As are Thessalian drugs or mithridate:
     But go, my lords, put the rest to the sword.

          [Exeunt all except TAMBURLAINE.]

     Ah, fair Zenocrate!--divine Zenocrate!
     Fair is too foul an epithet for thee,--
     That in thy passion [262] for thy country's love,
     And fear to see thy kingly father's harm,
     With hair dishevell'd wip'st thy watery cheeks;
     And, like to Flora in her morning's pride,
     Shaking her silver tresses in the air,
     Rain'st on the earth resolved [263] pearl in showers,
     And sprinklest sapphires on thy shining face,
     Where Beauty, mother to the Muses, sits,
     And comments volumes with her ivory pen,
     Taking instructions from thy flowing eyes;
     Eyes, when that Ebena steps to heaven, [264]
     In silence of thy solemn evening's walk,
     Making the mantle of the richest night,
     The moon, the planets, and the meteors, light;
     There angels in their crystal armours fight [265]
     A doubtful battle with my tempted thoughts
     For Egypt's freedom and the Soldan's life,
     His life that so consumes Zenocrate;
     Whose sorrows lay more siege unto my soul
     Than all my army to Damascus' walls;
     And neither Persia's [266] sovereign nor the Turk
     Troubled my senses with conceit of foil
     So much by much as doth Zenocrate.
     What is beauty, saith my sufferings, then?
     If all the pens that ever poets held
     Had fed the feeling of their masters' thoughts,
     And every sweetness that inspir'd their hearts,
     Their minds, and muses on admired themes;
     If all the heavenly quintessence they still [267]
     From their immortal flowers of poesy,
     Wherein, as in a mirror, we perceive
     The highest reaches of a human wit;
     If these had made one poem's period,
     And all combin'd in beauty's worthiness,
     Yet should there hover in their restless heads
     One thought, one grace, one wonder, at the least,
     Which into words no virtue can digest.
     But how unseemly is it for my sex,
     My discipline of arms and chivalry,
     My nature, and the terror of my name,
     To harbour thoughts effeminate and faint!
     Save only that in beauty's just applause,
     With whose instinct the soul of man is touch'd;
     And every warrior that is rapt with love
     Of fame, of valour, and of victory,
     Must needs have beauty beat on his conceits:
     I thus conceiving, [268] and subduing both,
     That which hath stoop'd the chiefest of the gods,
     Even from the fiery-spangled veil of heaven,
     To feel the lovely warmth of shepherds' flames,
     And mask in cottages of strowed reeds,
     Shall give the world to note, for all my birth,
     That virtue solely is the sum of glory,
     And fashions men with true nobility.--
     Who's within there?

          Enter ATTENDANTS.

     Hath Bajazeth been fed to-day?

     ATTEND. [269] Ay, my lord.

     TAMBURLAINE. Bring him forth; and let us know if the town be
     ransacked.

          [Exeunt ATTENDANTS.]

          Enter TECHELLES, THERIDAMAS, USUMCASANE, and others.

     TECHELLES. The town is ours, my lord, and fresh supply
     Of conquest and of spoil is offer'd us.

     TAMBURLAINE. That's well, Techelles.  What's the news?

     TECHELLES. The Soldan and the Arabian king together
     March on us with [270] such eager violence
     As if there were no way but one with us. [271]

     TAMBURLAINE. No more there is not, I warrant thee, Techelles.

          ATTENDANTS bring in BAJAZETH in his cage, followed by
          ZABINA.
          Exeunt ATTENDANTS.

     THERIDAMAS. We know the victory is ours, my lord;
     But let us save the reverend Soldan's life
     For fair Zenocrate that so laments his state.

     TAMBURLAINE. That will we chiefly see unto, Theridamas,
     For sweet Zenocrate, whose worthiness
     Deserves a conquest over every heart.--
     And now, my footstool, if I lose the field,
     You hope of liberty and restitution?--
     Here let him stay, my masters, from the tents,
     Till we have made us ready for the field.--
     Pray for us, Bajazeth; we are going.
          [Exeunt all except BAJAZETH and ZABINA.]

     BAJAZETH. Go, never to return with victory!
     Millions of men encompass thee about,
     And gore thy body with as many wounds!
     Sharp forked arrows light upon thy horse!
     Furies from the black Cocytus' lake,
     Break up the earth, and with their fire-brands
     Enforce thee run upon the baneful pikes!
     Vollies of shot pierce through thy charmed skin,
     And every bullet dipt in poison'd drugs!
     Or roaring cannons sever all thy joints,
     Making thee mount as high as eagles soar!

     ZABINA. Let all the swords and lances in the field
     Stick in his breast as in their proper rooms!
     At every pore [272] let blood come dropping forth,
     That lingering pains may massacre his heart,
     And madness send his damned soul to hell!

     BAJAZETH. Ah, fair Zabina! we may curse his power,
     The heavens may frown, the earth for anger quake;
     But such a star hath influence in [273] his sword
     As rules the skies and countermands the gods
     More than Cimmerian Styx or Destiny:
     And then shall we in this detested guise,
     With shame, with hunger, and with horror stay, [274]
     Griping our bowels with retorqued [275] thoughts,
     And have no hope to end our ecstasies.

     ZABINA. Then is there left no Mahomet, no God,
     No fiend, no fortune, nor no hope of end
     To our infamous, monstrous slaveries.
     Gape, earth, and let the fiends infernal view
     A [276] hell as hopeless and as full of fear
     As are the blasted banks of Erebus,
     Where shaking ghosts with ever-howling groans
     Hover about the ugly ferryman,
     To get a passage to Elysium! [277]
     Why should we live?--O, wretches, beggars, slaves!--
     Why live we, Bajazeth, and build up nests
     So high within the region of the air,
     By living long in this oppression,
     That all the world will see and laugh to scorn
     The former triumphs of our mightiness
     In this obscure infernal servitude?

     BAJAZETH. O life, more loathsome to my vexed thoughts [278]
     Than noisome parbreak [279] of the Stygian snakes,
     Which fills the nooks of hell with standing air,
     Infecting all the ghosts with cureless griefs!
     O dreary engines of my loathed sight,
     That see my crown, my honour, and my name
     Thrust under yoke and thraldom of a thief,
     Why feed ye still on day's accursed beams,
     And sink not quite into my tortur'd soul?
     You see my wife, my queen, and emperess,
     Brought up and propped by the hand of Fame,
     Queen of fifteen contributory queens,
     Now thrown to rooms of black abjection, [280]
     Smeared with blots of basest drudgery,
     And villainess [281] to shame, disdain, and misery.
     Accursed Bajazeth, whose words of ruth, [282]
     That would with pity cheer Zabina's heart,
     And make our souls resolve [283] in ceaseless tears,
     Sharp hunger bites upon and gripes the root
     From whence the issues of my thoughts do break!
     O poor Zabina!  O my queen, my queen!
     Fetch me some water for my burning breast,
     To cool and comfort me with longer date,
     That, in the shorten'd sequel of my life,
     I may pour forth my soul into thine arms
     With words of love, whose moaning intercourse
     Hath hitherto been stay'd with wrath and hate
     Of our expressless bann'd [284] inflictions.

     ZABINA. Sweet Bajazeth, I will prolong thy life
     As long as any blood or spark of breath
     Can quench or cool the torments of my grief.

          [Exit.]

     BAJAZETH. Now, Bajazeth, abridge thy baneful days,
     And beat the [285] brains out of thy conquer'd head,
     Since other means are all forbidden me,
     That may be ministers of my decay.
     O highest lamp of ever-living [286] Jove,
     Accursed day, infected with my griefs,
     Hide now thy stained face in endless night,
     And shut the windows of the lightsome heavens!
     Let ugly Darkness with her rusty coach,
     Engirt with tempests, wrapt in pitchy clouds,
     Smother the earth with never-fading mists,
     And let her horses from their nostrils breathe
     Rebellious winds and dreadful thunder-claps,
     That in this terror Tamburlaine may live,
     And my pin'd soul, resolv'd in liquid air,
     May still excruciate his tormented thoughts!
     Then let the stony dart of senseless cold
     Pierce through the centre of my wither'd heart,
     And make a passage for my loathed life!

          [He brains himself against the cage.]

          Re-enter ZABINA.

     ZABINA. What do mine eyes behold? my husband dead!
     His skull all riven in twain! his brains dash'd out,
     The brains of Bajazeth, my lord and sovereign!
     O Bajazeth, my husband and my lord!
     O Bajazeth!  O Turk!  O emperor!
     Give him his liquor? not I.  Bring milk and fire, and my blood
     I bring him again.--Tear me in pieces--give [287] me the sword
     with a ball of wild-fire upon it.--Down with him! down with
     him!--Go to my child; away, away, away! ah, save that infant!
     save him, save him!--I, even I, speak to her. [288]--The sun was
     down--streamers white, red, black--Here, here, here!--Fling the
     meat in his face--Tamburlaine, Tamburlaine!--Let the soldiers be
     buried.--Hell, death, Tamburlaine, [289] hell!--Make ready my
     coach, [290] my chair, my jewels.--I come, I come, I come! [291]

          [She runs against the cage, and brains herself.]

          Enter ZENOCRATE with ANIPPE.

     ZENOCRATE. Wretched Zenocrate! that liv'st to see
     Damascus' walls dy'd with Egyptians' [292] blood,
     Thy father's subjects and thy countrymen;
     The [293] streets strow'd with dissever'd joints of men,
     And wounded bodies gasping yet for life;
     But most accurs'd, to see the sun-bright troop
     Of heavenly virgins and unspotted maids
     (Whose looks might make the angry god of arms
     To break his sword and mildly treat of love)
     On horsemen's lances to be hoisted up,
     And guiltlessly endure a cruel death;
     For every fell and stout Tartarian steed,
     That stamp'd on others with their thundering hoofs,
     When all their riders charg'd their quivering spears,
     Began to check the ground and rein themselves,
     Gazing upon the beauty of their looks.
     Ah, Tamburlaine, wert thou the cause of this,
     That term'st Zenocrate thy dearest love?
     Whose lives were dearer to Zenocrate
     Than her own life, or aught save thine own love.
     But see, another bloody spectacle!
     Ah, wretched eyes, the enemies of my heart,
     How are ye glutted with these grievous objects,
     And tell my soul more tales of bleeding ruth!--
     See, see, Anippe, if they breathe or no.

     ANIPPE. No breath, nor sense, nor motion, in them both:
     Ah, madam, this their slavery hath enforc'd,
     And ruthless cruelty of Tamburlaine!

     ZENOCRATE. Earth, cast up fountains from thy [294] entrails,
     And wet thy cheeks for their untimely deaths;
     Shake with their weight in sign of fear and grief!
     Blush, heaven, that gave them honour at their birth,
     And let them die a death so barbarous!
     Those that are proud of fickle empery
     And place their chiefest good in earthly pomp,
     Behold the Turk and his great emperess!
     Ah, Tamburlaine my love, sweet Tamburlaine,
     That fight'st for sceptres and for slippery crowns,
     Behold the Turk and his great emperess!
     Thou that, in conduct of thy happy stars,
     Sleep'st every night with conquest on thy brows,
     And yet wouldst shun the wavering turns of war, [295]
     In fear and feeling of the like distress
     Behold the Turk and his great emperess!
     Ah, mighty Jove and holy Mahomet,
     Pardon my love!  O, pardon his contempt
     Of earthly fortune and respect of pity;
     And let not conquest, ruthlessly pursu'd,
     Be equally against his life incens'd
     In this great Turk and hapless emperess!
     And pardon me that was not mov'd with ruth
     To see them live so long in misery!--
     Ah, what may chance to thee, Zenocrate?

     ANIPPE. Madam, content yourself, and be resolv'd
     Your love hath Fortune so at his command,
     That she shall stay, and turn her wheel no more,
     As long as life maintains his mighty arm
     That fights for honour to adorn your head.

          Enter PHILEMUS.

     ZENOCRATE. What other heavy news now brings Philemus?

     PHILEMUS. Madam, your father, and the Arabian king,
     The first affecter of your excellence,
     Come [296] now, as Turnus 'gainst Aeneas did,
     Armed [297] with lance into the Aegyptian fields,
     Ready for battle 'gainst my lord the king.

     ZENOCRATE. Now shame and duty, love and fear present
     A thousand sorrows to my martyr'd soul.
     Whom should I wish the fatal victory,
     When my poor pleasures are divided thus,
     And rack'd by duty from my cursed heart?
     My father and my first-betrothed love
     Must fight against my life and present love;
     Wherein the change I use condemns my faith,
     And makes my deeds infamous through the world:
     But, as the gods, to end the Trojans' toil,
     Prevented Turnus of Lavinia,
     And fatally enrich'd Aeneas' love,
     So, for a final [298] issue to my griefs,
     To pacify my country and my love,
     Must Tamburlaine by their resistless powers,
     With virtue of a gentle victory,
     Conclude a league of honour to my hope;
     Then, as the powers divine have pre-ordain'd,
     With happy safety of my father's life
     Send like defence of fair Arabia

          [They sound to the battle within; and TAMBURLAINE enjoys
          the victory:  after which, the KING OF ARABIA [299] enters
          wounded.]

     KING OF ARABIA. What cursed power guides the murdering hands
     Of this infamous tyrant's soldiers,
     That no escape may save their enemies,
     Nor fortune keep themselves from victory?
     Lie down, Arabia, wounded to the death,
     And let Zenocrate's fair eyes behold,
     That, as for her thou bear'st these wretched arms,
     Even so for her thou diest in these arms,
     Leaving thy [300] blood for witness of thy love.

     ZENOCRATE. Too dear a witness for such love, my lord!
     Behold Zenocrate, the cursed object
     Whose fortunes never mastered her griefs;
     Behold her wounded in conceit [301] for thee,
     As much as thy fair body is for me!

     KING OF ARABIA. Then shall I die with full contented heart,
     Having beheld divine Zenocrate,
     Whose sight with joy would take away my life
     As now it bringeth sweetness to my wound,
     If I had not been wounded as I am.
     Ah, that the deadly pangs I suffer now
     Would lend an hour's licence to my tongue,
     To make discourse of some sweet accidents
     Have chanc'd thy merits in this worthless bondage,
     And that I might be privy to the state
     Of thy deserv'd contentment and thy love!
     But, making now a virtue of thy sight,
     To drive all sorrow from my fainting soul,
     Since death denies me further cause of joy,
     Depriv'd of care, my heart with comfort dies,
     Since thy desired hand shall close mine eyes.

          [Dies.]

          Re-enter TAMBURLAINE, leading the SOLDAN; TECHELLES,
          THERIDAMAS, USUMCASANE, with others.

     TAMBURLAINE. Come, happy father of Zenocrate,
     A title higher than thy Soldan's name.
     Though my right hand have [302] thus enthralled thee,
     Thy princely daughter here shall set thee free;
     She that hath calm'd the fury of my sword,
     Which had ere this been bath'd in streams of blood
     As vast and deep as Euphrates [303] or Nile.

     ZENOCRATE. O sight thrice-welcome to my joyful soul,
     To see the king, my father, issue safe
     From dangerous battle of my conquering love!

     SOLDAN. Well met, my only dear Zenocrate,
     Though with the loss of Egypt and my crown!

     TAMBURLAINE. 'Twas I, my lord, that gat the victory;
     And therefore grieve not at your overthrow,
     Since I shall render all into your hands,
     And add more strength to your dominions
     Than ever yet confirm'd th' Egyptian crown.
     The god of war resigns his room to me,
     Meaning to make me general of the world:
     Jove, viewing me in arms, looks pale and wan,
     Fearing my power should [304] pull him from his throne:
     Where'er I come the Fatal Sisters sweat, [305]
     And grisly Death, by running to and fro,
     To do their ceaseless homage to my sword:
     And here in Afric, where it seldom rains,
     Since I arriv'd with my triumphant host,
     Have swelling clouds, drawn from wide-gaping [306] wounds,
     Been oft resolv'd [307] in bloody purple showers,
     A meteor that might terrify the earth,
     And make it quake at every drop it drinks:
     Millions [308] of souls sit on the banks of Styx,
     Waiting the back-return of Charon's boat;
     Hell and Elysium [309] swarm with ghosts of men
     That I have sent from sundry foughten fields
     To spread my fame through hell and up to heaven:
     And see, my lord, a sight of strange import,--
     Emperors and kings lie breathless at my feet;
     The Turk and his great empress, as it seems,
     Left to themselves while we were at the fight,
     Have desperately despatch'd their slavish lives:
     With them Arabia, too, hath left his life:
     All sights of power to grace my victory;
     And such are objects fit for Tamburlaine,
     Wherein, as in a mirror, may be seen
     His honour, that consists in shedding blood
     When men presume to manage arms with him.

     SOLDAN. Mighty hath God and Mahomet made thy hand,
     Renowmed [310] Tamburlaine, to whom all kings
     Of force must yield their crowns and emperies;
     And I am pleas'd with this my overthrow,
     If, as beseems a person of thy state,
     Thou hast with honour us'd Zenocrate.

     TAMBURLAINE. Her state and person want no pomp, you see;
     And for all blot of foul inchastity,
     I record [311] heaven, her heavenly self is clear:
     Then let me find no further time [312] to grace
     Her princely temples with the Persian crown;
     But here these kings that on my fortunes wait,
     And have been crown'd for proved worthiness
     Even by this hand that shall establish them,
     Shall now, adjoining all their hands with mine,
     Invest her here the [313] Queen of Persia
     What saith the noble Soldan, and Zenocrate?

     SOLDAN. I yield with thanks and protestations
     Of endless honour to thee for her love.

     TAMBURLAINE. Then doubt I not [314] but fair Zenocrate
     Will soon consent to satisfy us both.

     ZENOCRATE. Else [315] should I much forget myself, my lord.

     THERIDAMAS. Then let us set the crown upon her head,
     That long hath linger'd for so high a seat.

     TECHELLES. My hand is ready to perform the deed;
     For now her marriage-time shall work us rest.

     USUMCASANE. And here's the crown, my lord; help set it on. [316]

     TAMBURLAINE. Then sit thou down, divine Zenocrate;
     And here we crown thee Queen of Persia,
     And all the kingdoms and dominions
     That late the power of Tamburlaine subdu'd.
     As Juno, when the giants were suppress'd,
     That darted mountains at her brother Jove,
     So looks my love, shadowing in her brows
     Triumphs and trophies for my victories;
     Or as Latona's daughter, bent to arms,
     Adding more courage to my conquering mind.
     To gratify the[e], sweet Zenocrate,
     Egyptians, Moors, and men of Asia,
     From Barbary unto the Western India,
     Shall pay a yearly tribute to thy sire;
     And from the bounds of Afric to the banks
     Of Ganges shall his mighty arm extend.--
     And now, my lords and loving followers,
     That purchas'd kingdoms by your martial deeds,
     Cast off your armour, put on scarlet robes,
     Mount up your royal places of estate,
     Environed with troops of noblemen,
     And there make laws to rule your provinces:
     Hang up your weapons on Alcides' post[s];
     For Tamburlaine takes truce with all the world.--
     Thy first-betrothed love, Arabia,
     Shall we with honour, as beseems, [317] entomb
     With this great Turk and his fair emperess.
     Then, after all these solemn exequies,
     We will our rites [318] of marriage solemnize.

          [Exeunt.]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: To the Gentlemen-readers, &c.] From the 8vo of 1592:  in the
4tos this address is worded here and there differently.  I have
not thought it necessary to mark the varioe lectiones of the
worthy printer's composition.]

[Footnote 2: histories] i.e. dramas so called,--plays founded on history.]

[Footnote 3: fond] i.e. foolish.--Concerning the omissions here alluded
to, some remarks will be found in the ACCOUNT OF MARLOWE AND
HIS WRITINGS.]

   The "Account of Marlowe and His Writings," is the
     introduction to this book of 'The Works of Christopher
     Marlowe.'  That is, the book from which this play has been
     transcribed.  The following is from pages xvi and xvii of
     that introduction.

   "This tragedy, which was entered in the Stationers' Books,
     14th August, 1590,[a] and printed during the same year, has
     not come down to us in its original fulness; and probably we
     have no cause to lament the curtailments which it suffered
     from the publisher of the first edition.  "I have
     purposely,"
     he says, "omitted and left out some fond and frivolous
     gestures, digressing, and, in my poor opinion, far unmeet
     for the matter, which I thought might seem more tedious unto
     the wise than any way else to be regarded, though haply they
     have been of some vain-conceited fondlings greatly gaped at,
     what time they were shewed upon the stage in their graced
     deformities:  nevertheless now to be mixtured in print with
     such matter of worth, it would prove a great disgrace to so
     honourable and stately a history."[b]  By the words, "fond
     and frivolous gestures," we are to understand those of the
     "clown;" who very frequently figured, with more or less
     prominence, even in the most serious dramas of the time.
     The introduction of such buffooneries into tragedy[c] is
     censured by Hall towards the conclusion of a passage which,
     as it mentions "the Turkish Tamberlaine," would seem to be
     partly levelled at Marlowe:[d]

       "One higher-pitch'd doth set his soaring thought
        On crowned kings that Fortune hath low brought,
        Or some vpreared high-aspiring swaine,
        As it might be THE TURKISH TAMBERLAINE.
        Then weeneth he his base drink-drowned spright
        Rapt to the three-fold loft of heauen hight,
        When he conceiues vpon his fained stage
        The stalking steps of his greate personage,
        Graced with huf-cap termes and thundring threats,
        That his poore hearers' hayre quite vpright sets.

                * * * * * * * * *

        NOW, LEAST SUCH FRIGHTFULL SHOWES OF FORTUNE'S FALL
        AND BLOUDY TYRANTS' RAGE SHOULD CHANCE APALL
        THE DEAD-STROKE AUDIENCE, MIDST THE SILENT ROUT
        COMES LEAPING IN A SELFE-MISFORMED LOUT,
        AND LAUGHES, AND GRINS, AND FRAMES HIS MIMIK FACE,
        AND IUSTLES STRAIGHT INTO THE PRINCE'S PLACE:
        THEN DOTH THE THEATRE ECCHO ALL ALOUD
        WITH GLADSOME NOYSE OF THAT APPLAUDING CROWD:
        A GOODLY HOCH-POCH, WHEN VILE RUSSETTINGS
        ARE MATCH['D] WITH MONARCHS AND WITH MIGHTIE KINGS!"[e]

     But Hall's taste was more refined and classical than that
     of his age; and the success of TAMBURLAINE, in which the
     celebrated Alleyn represented the hero,[f] was adequate to
     the most sanguine expectations which its author could have
     formed.]

    [a] "A ballad entituled the storye of Tamburlayne the
         greate," &c. (founded, I suppose, on Marlowe's play)
         was entered in the Stationers' Books, 5th Nov. 1594.

    [b] P. 4 of the present volume.

    [c] In Italy, at the commencement of the 18th century
         (and probably much later), it was not unusual to
         introduce "the Doctor," "Harlequin," "Pantalone," and
         "Coviello," into deep tragedies.  "I have seen," says
         Addison, "a translation of THE CID acted at Bolonia,
         which would never have taken, had they not found a
         place in it for these buffoons." REMARKS ON SEVERAL
         PARTS OF ITALY, &C. IN THE YEARS 1701, 1702, 1703,
         p. 68, ed. 1745.

    [d] Perhaps I ought to add, that Marlowe was dead when
         (in 1597) the satire, from which these lines are quoted,
         was first given to the press.

    [e] Hall's VIRGID. Lib. I. Sat. iii., ed. 1602.

    [f] See Heywood's Prol. to our author's JEW OF MALTA,
         p. 142 of the present volume.[See the Project
         Gutenberg E-Text of 'The Jew of Malta.'     "]

[Footnote 4: censures] i.e. judgments, opinions.]

[Footnote 5: Afric] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Affrica."]

[Footnote 6: their] Old eds. "his."]

[Footnote 7: through] So the 4to.--The 8vo "thorough."]

[Footnote 8: incivil] i.e. barbarous.--So the 8vo.--The 4to "vnciuill."]

[Footnote 9: incontinent] i.e. forthwith, immediately.]

[Footnote 10: chiefest] So the 8vo.--The 4to "chiefe."]

[Footnote 11: rout] i.e. crew.]

[Footnote 12: press] So the 8vo.--The 4to "prease."]

[Footnote 13: you] So the 8vo.--0mitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 14: all] So the 4to.--0mitted in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 15: mated] i.e. confounded.]

[Footnote 16: pass not] i.e. care not.]

[Footnote 17: regiment]  i.e. rule, government.]

[Footnote 18: resolve] i.e. dissolve.--So the 8vo.--The 4to "dissolue."]

[Footnote 19: ships] So the 4to.--The 8vo "shippe."]

[Footnote 20: Pass] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Hast."]

[Footnote 21: you] So the 8vo.--The 4to "they."]

[Footnote 22: Ceneus] Here both the old eds. "Conerus."]

[Footnote 23: states] i.e. noblemen, persons of rank.]

[Footnote 24: their] So the 8vo.--The 4to "the."]

[Footnote 25: and Persia] So the 8vo.--The 4to "and OF Persia."]

[Footnote 26: ever-raging] So the 8vo.--The 4to "RIUER raging."]

[Footnote 27: ALL] So the 4to.--Omitted in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 28: And Jove may, &c.] i.e. And may Jove, &c.  This collocation
of words is sometimes found in later writers:  so in the Prologue
to Fletcher's WOMAN'S PRIZE,--"WHICH this may PROVE!"]

[Footnote 29: knew] So the 8vo.--The 4to "knowe."]

[Footnote 30: lords] So the 4to.--The 8vo "Lord."]

[Footnote 31: injury] This verb frequently occurs in our early writers.
"Then haue you INIURIED manie."  Lyly's ALEXANDER AND CAMPASPE,
sig. D 4, ed. 1591.  It would seem to have fallen into disuse
soon after the commencement of the 17th century:  in Heywood's
WOMAN KILLED WITH KINDNESS, 1607, we find,

   "You INJURY that good man, and wrong me too."
        Sig. F 2.

but in ed. 1617 "injury" is altered to "iniure."]

[Footnote 32: ALL] So the 4to.--0mitted in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 33: Who, travelling, &c.] The halting metre shews that there
is some corruption in this and the next line.]

[Footnote 34: thorough] So the 8vo.--The 4to "through."]

[Footnote 35: unvalued] i.e. not to be valued, or estimated.]

[Footnote 36: conceit] i.e. fancy, imagination.]

[Footnote 37: Rhodope] Old eds. "Rhodolfe."]

[Footnote 38: valurous] i.e. valuable.]

[Footnote 39: pools] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Poles."]

[Footnote 40: resolv'd] i.e. dissolved.--So the 8vo.--The 4to "desolu'd."]

[Footnote 41: Shall we all offer] The 8vo "Shall we offer" (the word
"all" having dropt out).--The 4to "WE ALL SHALL offer."]

[Footnote 42: in] The 8vo "it."--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 43: triumph'd] So the 8vo.--The 4to "tryumph."]

[Footnote 44: brave] i.e. splendidly clad.]

[Footnote 45: top] So the 4to.--The 8vo "foot."]

[Footnote 46: mails] i.e. bags, budgets.]

[Footnote 47: lance] So the 4to.--Here the 8vo has "lanch;" but more than
once in the SEC. PART of the play it has "lance."]

[Footnote 48: this] So the 8vo.--The 4to "the."--Qy. "Where is this
Scythian SHEPHERD Tamburlaine"?  Compare the next words of
Theridamas.]

[Footnote 49: vaults] Here the 8vo has "vauts,"--"which," says one of the
modern editors, "was common in Marlowe's time:" and so it was;
but in the SEC. PART of this play, act ii. sc. 4, the same 8vo
gives,--

   "As we descend into the infernal VAULTS."]

[Footnote 50: thy] So the 8vo.--The 4to "the."]

[Footnote 51: brave] See note  in preceding column.[i.e. note 44.]]

[Footnote 52: renowmed] i.e. renowned.--So the 8vo.--The 4to "renowned."
--The form "RENOWMED" (Fr. renomme) occurs repeatedly afterwards
in this play, according to the 8vo.  It is occasionally found in
writers posterior to Marlowe's time.  e.g.

   "Of Constantines great towne RENOUM'D in vaine."
        Verses to King James, prefixed to Lord Stirling's
        MONARCHICKE TRAGEDIES, ed. 1607.]

[Footnote 53: cliffs] So the 8vo.--The 4to "cliftes."]

[Footnote 54: merchants] i.e. merchant-men, ships of trade.]

[Footnote 55: stems] i.e. prows.]

[Footnote 56: vail] i.e. lower their flags.]

[Footnote 57: Bootes] The 8vo "Botees."--The 4to "Boetes."]

[Footnote 58: competitor] i.e. associate, partner (a sense in which the
word is used by Shakespeare).]

[Footnote 59: To these] Old eds. "ARE these."]

[Footnote 60: renowmed] See note ||, p. 11.[i.e. note 52.]--So the 8vo.
--The 4to "renowned."]

[Footnote 61: statues] So the 4to.--"The first edition reads 'statutes,'
but, as the Scythians worshipped Pylades and Orestes in temples,
we have adopted the reading of the quarto as being most probably
the correct one."  Ed. 1826.]

[Footnote 62: kings] So the 8vo.--The 4to "king."]

[Footnote 63: Nor thee nor them] The modern editors silently print "Nor
THEY nor THEIRS."]

[Footnote 64: will] So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 65: pitch] Is generally equivalent to--stature. ("I would have
you tell me what PITCH he was of, Velim mihi dicas qua STATURA
fuerit."  Coles's DICT.)  But here it means the highest part of
the body,--the shoulders (see the 10th sign. of PITCH in
Halliwell's DICT. OF ARCH. AND PROV. WORDS),--the "pearl" being,
of course, his head.]

[Footnote 66: and] So the 4to.--The 8vo "with."]

[Footnote 67: His arms and fingers long and sinewy] So the 8vo, except
that, by a misprint, it has "snowy" for "sinewy."--The 4to gives
the line thus,--

   "His armes long, HIS fingers SNOWY-WHITE."!!

(and so the line used to stand in Lamb's SPEC. OF DRAM. POETS,
till I made the necessary alteration in Mr. Moxon's recent ed.
of that selection.)]

[Footnote 68: subdu'd] So the 8vo.--The 4to "subdue."]

[Footnote 69: Nature doth strive with Fortune, &c.] Qy did Shakespeare
recollect this passage when he wrote,--

   "Nature and Fortune join'd to make thee great"?
        KING JOHN, act iii. sc. 1.]

[Footnote 70: port] i.e. gate.]

[Footnote 71: is] So the 8vo.--The 4to "in."]

[Footnote 72: In fair, &c.] Here "fair" is to be considered as a
dissyllable:  compare, in the Fourth Act of our author's
JEW OF MALTA,

   "I'll feast you, lodge you, give you FAIR words,
    And, after that," &c.]

[Footnote 73: of] i.e. on.]

[Footnote 74: worse] So the 8vo.--The 4to "worst."]

[Footnote 75: the] So the 8vo.--The 4to "that."]

[Footnote 76: his] So the 8vo.--The 4to "the."]

[Footnote 77: be] So the 8vo.--The 4to "are."]

[Footnote 78: Beside] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Besides."]

[Footnote 79: champion] i.e. champaign.]

[Footnote 80: greedy after] Old eds. "after greedie."]

[Footnote 81: Sprung] Here, and in the next speech, both the old eds.
"Sprong":  but in p. 18, l. 3, first col., the 4to has "sprung",
and in the SEC. PART of the play, act iv. sc. 4, they both give
"SPRUNG from a tyrants loynes."

  [Page 18, First Column, Line 3, This Play:
   "For he was never sprung[118: of human race,"]

[Footnote 82: teeth of] So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 83: lance] Here both the old eds. "lanch":  but see note ||,
p. 11.(i.e. note 47.)]

[Footnote 84: the] So the 8vo.--0mitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 85: some] So the 4to.--The 8vo "scorne."]

[Footnote 86: will] So the 8vo.--The 4to "shall."]

[Footnote 87: top] i.e. rise above, surpass.--Old eds. "stop."]

[Footnote 88: renowmed] See note ||, p. 11.[i.e. note 52.]  So the 8vo.
--The 4to "renowned."]

[Footnote 89: thirst] The 8vo "thrust":  the 4to "thrist."]

[Footnote 90: and] So the 4to.--The 8vo "not."]

[Footnote 91: the fair] So the 8vo.--The 4to "THEE faire."]

[Footnote 92: she] i.e. Nemesis.]

[Footnote 93: Rhamnus'] Old eds. "Rhamnis."]

[Footnote 94: meeds] So the 8vo.--The 4to "deeds."]

[Footnote 95: into] Used here (as the word was formerly often used) for
UNTO.]

[Footnote 96: sure] A dissyllable here.  In the next line "assure" is a
trisyllable.]

[Footnote 97: with his crown in his hand] The old eds. add "offering
to hide it;" but THAT he does presently after.]

[Footnote 98: those were] i.e. those who were, who have been.]

[Footnote 99: Stand staggering] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Stand THOSE
staggering."]

[Footnote 100: For kings are clouts that every man shoots at,

      Our crown the pin, &c.

CLOUT means the white mark in the butts; PIN, the peg in the
centre, which fastened it.]

[Footnote 101: me] So the 4to.--Omitted in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 102: MYCETES. Ay, marry, &c.] From this to "TAMBURLAINE. Well,
I mean you shall have it again" inclusive, the dialogue is
prose:  compare act iv. sc. 4, p. 29.]

[Footnote 103: renowmed man-at-arms] See note ||, p. 11.[i.e. note 52.]
So the 8vo.--The 4to "RENOWNED MEN at armes."]

[Footnote 104: chiefest] So the 4to.--The 8vo "chiefe."]

[Footnote 105: happy] So the 8vo.--The 4to "happiest."]

[Footnote 106: aim'd] So the 4to.--The 8vo "and."]

[Footnote 107: it] So the 4to.--The 8vo "is."]

[Footnote 108: our] So the 4to.--Omitted in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 109: we] So the 8vo.--The 4to "I."]

[Footnote 110: in earth] i.e. on earth.  So in the Lord's Prayer, "Thy
will
be done IN EARTH."]

[Footnote 111: Casane] Both the old eds. here "Casanes."]

[Footnote 112: a-piece] So the 4to.--The 8vo "apace."]

[Footnote 113: purchase] i.e. booty, gain.]

[Footnote 114: quite] i.e. requite.]

[Footnote 115: this] So ([[deiktikos]]) the 8vo.--The 4to "the."]

[Footnote 116: him] Old eds. "his."]

[Footnote 117: and] So the 8vo.--The 4to "with."]

[Footnote 118: sprung] See note , p. 14.[i.e. note 81.]]

[Footnote 119: dares] So the 8vo.--The 4to "dare."]

[Footnote 120: fate] Old eds. "state."]

[Footnote 121: Resolve] Seems to mean--dissolve (compare "our bodies turn
to elements," p. 12, sec. col.):  but I suspect some corruption
here.

  Page 12, Second Column, This Play:
   "TAMBURLAINE. . . . .
    Until our bodies turn to elements,
    And both our souls aspire celestial thrones.--"
    etc.]]

[Footnote 122: Barbarous] Qy. "O barbarous"? in the next line but one,
"O treacherous"? and in the last line of the speech, "O bloody"?
But we occasionally find in our early dramatists lines which are
defective in the first syllable; and in some of these instances
at least it would almost seem that nothing has been omitted by
the transcriber or printer.]

[Footnote 123: artier] i.e. artery.  This form occurs again in the SEC.
PART of the present play:  so too in a copy of verses by Day;]

   "Hid in the vaines and ARTIERS of the earthe."
        SHAKESPEARE SOC. PAPERS, vol. i. 19.

The word indeed was variously written of old:

   "The ARTER strynge is the conduyt of the lyfe spiryte."
        Hormanni VULGARIA, sig. G iii. ed. 1530.

   "Riche treasures serue for th'ARTERS of the war."
        Lord Stirling's DARIUS, act ii. Sig. C 2. ed. 1604.

   "Onelye the extrauagant ARTIRE of my arme is brused."
        EVERIE WOMAN IN HER HUMOR, 1609, sig. D 4.

   "And from the veines some bloud each ARTIRE draines."
        Davies's MICROCOSMOS, 1611, p. 56.]

[Footnote 124: regiment] i.e. rule.]

[Footnote 125: fruit] So the 4to.--The 8vo "fruites."]

[Footnote 126: are] Old eds. "Is."]

[Footnote 127: talents] Was often used by our early writers for TALONS,
as many passages might be adduced to shew.  Hence the quibble in
Shakespeare's LOVE'S LABOUR<K\OST, act iv. sc. 2., "If a TALENT
be a claw," &c.]

[Footnote 128: harpy] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Harper;" and with that
reading the line is cited, in a note on MACBETH, act iv. sc. 1,
by Steevens, who also gives "tires UPON my life;" but "TIRES"
(a well-known term in falconry, and equivalent here to--preys)
is to be pronounced as a dissyllable.  (In the 4to it in spelt
"tyers."]

[Footnote 129: the] So the 4to.--The 8vo "thy."]

[Footnote 130: bassoes] i.e. bashaws.]

[Footnote 131: Christians renied] i.e. Christians who have denied, or
renounced their faith.--In THE GENT. MAGAZINE for Jan. 1841,
J. M. would read "Christians RENEGADENS" or "CHRISTIAN
RENEGADES:"

but the old text is right; among many passages that might be
cited, compare the following;

   "And that Ydole is the God of false Cristene, that han
    RENEYED hire FEYTHE."
        THE VOIAGE AND TRAVAILE OF SIR JOHN MAUNDEVILE,
        p. 209. ed. 1725.

   "For that thou should'st RENY THY FAITH, and her thereby
      possesse.
    The Soldan did capitulat in vaine:  the more thy blesse."
        Warner's ALBIONS ENGLAND, B. XI. Ch. 68. p. 287. ed. 1596.]

[Footnote 132: Terrene] i.e. Mediterranean.]

[Footnote 133: Renowmed] See note ||, p. 11.[i.e. note 52.]  So the 8vo.
--The 4to "renowned."]

[Footnote 134: basso] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Brother."]

[Footnote 135: Not] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Nor."]

[Footnote 136: in] So the 8vo.--The 4to "on."]

[Footnote 137: Or spread, &c.] A word has dropt out from this line.]

[Footnote 138: measur'd heaven] So the 8vo.--The 4to "measured THE
heauen."]

[Footnote 139: pioners] The usual spelling of the word in our early
writers (in Shakespeare, for instance).]

[Footnote 140: ceaseless] So the 8vo.--The 4to "carelesse."]

[Footnote 141: conceits] i.e[.] fancies, imaginations.]

[Footnote 142: counterfeit] i.e. picture, resemblance.]

[Footnote 143: his] So the 8vo.--The 4to "the."]

[Footnote 144: you] So the 8vo.--The 4to "me."]

[Footnote 145: Leave] The author probably wrote, "AGYDAS, leave," &c.]

[Footnote 146: facts] i.e. deeds.]

[Footnote 147: much] So the 8vo.--The 4to "more."]

[Footnote 148: Pierides] i.e. The daughters of Pierus, who, having
challenged the Muses to a trial of song, were overcome, and
changed into magpies.]

[Footnote 149: the young Arabian] Scil. Alcidamus; see p. 10, l. 9, sec.
col.

  (Page 10, Second Column, Line 9, This Play:
   "Where her betrothed lord, Alcidamus,")]

[Footnote 150: Fearing his love] i.e. Fearing with respect to his love.]

[Footnote 151: of] so the 4to.--The 8vo "and."]

[Footnote 152: fury] So the 4to.--The 8vo "furies."]

[Footnote 153: shone] Old eds. "shine."]

[Footnote 154: send] Old eds. "sent."]

[Footnote 155: menace] So the 8vo.--The 4to "meane."]

[Footnote 156: fetch] So the 8vo.--The 4to "fetcht."]

[Footnote 157: set] So the 8vo.--The 4to "seate."]

[Footnote 158: Terrene] i.e. Mediterranean.]

[Footnote 159: to rest or breathe] So the 8vo.--The 4to "to BREATH AND
REST."]

[Footnote 160: bastones] i.e. bastinadoes.]

[Footnote 161: they] So the 8vo.--0mitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 162: Morocco] Here the old eds. "Moroccus,"--a barbarism which
I have not retained, because previously, in the stage-direction
at the commencement of this act, p. 19, they agree in reading
"Morocco."]

[Footnote 163: titles] So the 8vo.--The 4to "title."]

[Footnote 164: sarell] i.e. seraglio.]

[Footnote 165: I'll] So the 8vo.--The 4to "I will."]

[Footnote 166: the] So the 8vo.--The 4to "this."]

[Footnote 167: hugy] i.e. huge.]

[Footnote 168: renowm'd] See note ||, p. 11.[i.e. note 52.] So the 8vo.
--The 4to "renowned."]

[Footnote 169: of] So the 8vo.--The 4to "all."]

[Footnote 170: rule] So the 8vo.--The 4to "raigne."]

[Footnote 171: braver] So the 8vo.--The 4to "braue."]

[Footnote 172: pash] i.e. crush to pieces by a stroke.]

[Footnote 173: y-sprung] Here the old eds. "ySPRONG."--See note , p. 14.
 i.e. note 81.]

[Footnote 174: them] Old eds. "thee."]

[Footnote 175: the] Has perhaps crept in by a mistake of the transcriber
or printer.]

[Footnote 176: And make your strokes to wound the senseless light] The
old eds. have,

   "And make OUR strokes to wound the sencelesse LURE."

(the last word being, perhaps, in the 8vo "lute.") Here "light"
is a very questionable reading:  qy. "air"? (though the third
line above ends with that word).)]

[Footnote 177: boss] In the GENT. MAG. for Jan. 1841, J. M. proposed
to alter "boss" to "Bassa."  But Cotgrave, in his DICT., has;
"A fat BOSSE. Femme bien grasse et grosse; une coche."]

[Footnote 178: advocate] So the 4to.--The 8vo "aduocates."]

[Footnote 179: That dare, &c.] Something dropt out from this line.]

[Footnote 180: Re-enter Bajazeth, pursued by Tamburlaine] The old eds.
have,

   "Bajazeth flies, and he pursues him.  The battell short
  (Qto. is short), and they enter, Bajazeth is ouercome."

This not very intelligible stage-direction means perhaps that,
after Bajazeth and Tamburlaine had entered, a short combat was
to take place between them.]

[Footnote 181: foil] The old eds. "soil."]

[Footnote 182: gat] So the 8vo.--The 4to "got."]

[Footnote 183: pilling] i.e. plundering.]

[Footnote 184: British] So the 4to.--The 8vo "brightest."]

[Footnote 185: martial] So the 8vo.--The 4to "materiall."]

[Footnote 186: Awake, ye men of Memphis!] These words are put into the
mouth of Judas, in Fletcher's BONDUCA, at the commencement of
act ii.; and in Fletcher's WIT WITHOUT MONEY, act v. sc. 2. we
find "thou man of Memphis."]

[Footnote 187: basilisks] Pieces of ordnance so called.  They were of
immense size; see Douce's ILLUST. OF SHAKESPEARE, i. 425.]

[Footnote 188: monstrous] To be read as a trisyllable.]

[Footnote 189: Or ever-drizzling] So the 4to.--The 8vo "Or drisling."]

[Footnote 190: should] So the 4to.--The 8vo "shal."]

[Footnote 191: he devil] So the 8vo.--The 4to "he THE deuill."]

[Footnote 192: Arabian king] Scil. Alcidamus:  see p. 10, l. 9, sec. col.

  (Page 10, Second Column, Line 9, This Play:
   "Where her betrothed lord, Alcidamus,")]

[Footnote 193: it] So the 4to.--Omitted in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 194: it should] So the 4to.--The 8vo "should it."]

[Footnote 195: this] So the 8vo.--The 4to "it."]

[Footnote 196: into] So the 4to.--The 8vo "vnto."]

[Footnote 197: heart] So the 4to.--The 8vo "soul."]

[Footnote 198: stoop] Qy. "stoop, STOOP"?]

[Footnote 199: your] Old eds. "their."--Compare the tenth line of the
speech.]

[Footnote 200: to] So the 8vo.--The 4to "on."]

[Footnote 201: brent] i.e. burnt.  So the 8vo.--The 4to "burnt."]

[Footnote 202: kings] So the 8vo.--The 4to "king."]

[Footnote 203: from] So the 4to.--The 8vo "in."]

[Footnote 204: then, for you] So the 4to.--The 8vo "for you then."]

[Footnote 205: stark nak'd] Compare (among many passages which might be
cited from our early poets),--

                        "rather on Nilus' mud
    Lay me STARK NAK'D, and let the water-flies
    Blow me into abhorring!"
        Shakespeare's ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA, act v. sc. 2. (where
        the modern editors print "naked.")]

[Footnote 206: dignities] So the 8vo.--The 4to "dignitie."]

[Footnote 207: whiles] So the 8vo.--The 4to "while."]

[Footnote 208: shalt] So the 4to.--The 8vo "shal."]

[Footnote 209: grace] Olds eds. "grac'd."]

[Footnote 210: stature] So the 8vo.--The 4to "statue:" but again, in the
SECOND PART of this play, act ii. sc. 4, we have, according to
the 8vo--

   "And here will I set up her STATURE."

and, among many passages that might be cited from our early
authors, compare the following;

   "The STATURES huge, of Porphyrie and costlier matters made."
        Warner's ALBIONS ENGLAND, p. 303. ed. 1596.

   "By them shal Isis STATURE gently stand."
        Chapman's BLIND BEGGER OF ALEXANDRIA, 1598, sig. A 3.

   "Was not Anubis with his long nose of gold preferred before
    Neptune, whose STATURE was but brasse?"
        Lyly's MIDAS, sig. A 2. ed. 1592.]

[Footnote 211: bird] i.e. the ibis.]

[Footnote 212: are] Old eds. "is."]

[Footnote 213: country] Old eds. "countries."]

[Footnote 214: King of Arabia] i.e. Alcidamus; see p. 10, l. 9, sec. col.

  (Page 10, Second Column, Line 9, This Play:
   "Where her betrothed lord, Alcidamus,")]

[Footnote 215: Calydonian] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Calcedonian."]

[Footnote 216: lusty] So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 217: and] So the 4to.--0mitted in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 218: Renowmed] See note ||. p. 11.[i.e. note 52.]  So the 8vo.
--The 4to "Renow[ned."]]

[Footnote 219: Ibis' holy name] The ibis has been already alluded to in
the lines (p. 27, sec. col.),--

   "The golden stature of their feather'd bird,
    That spreads her wings upon the city-walls";

and it is well known to have been a sacred bird among the
Egyptians (see Cicero DE NAT. DEORUM, I. 36).  Compare the old
play of THE TAMING OF A SHREW;

   "Father, I SWEARE BY IBIS' GOLDEN BEAKE,
    More faire and radiente is my bonie Kate
    Then siluer Zanthus," &c.
        p. 22. ed. Shakespeare Soc.

In the passage of our text the modern editors substitute "Isis'"
for "Ibis'."]

[Footnote 220: the] So the 8vo.--The 4to "and."]

[Footnote 221: and] So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 222: thy baseness and] So the 8vo.--The 4to "THE basnesse OF."]

[Footnote 223: mask] So the 8vo.--The 4to "walke."]

[Footnote 224: My lord, &c.] Something has dropt out:  qy. "TAMELY
suffer"?]

[Footnote 225: a goodly refreshing for them] So the 8vo.--The 4to "a GOOD
refreshing TO them."]

[Footnote 226: Here] So the 8vo.--The 4to "there."]

[Footnote 227: it from] So the 8vo.--The 4to "it VP from."]

[Footnote 228: slice] So the 8vo.--The 4to "fleece."]

[Footnote 229: will fall] So the 8vo.--The 4to "will NOT fall."]

[Footnote 230: let] i.e. hinder.]

[Footnote 231: while] i.e. until.]

[Footnote 232: consort] i.e. band.]

[Footnote 233: pen] i.e. his sword.]

[Footnote 234: hastening] So the 4to.--The 8vo "hasting."]

[Footnote 235: 'specially] So the 8vo.--The 4to "especially."]

[Footnote 236: Morocco] Here and in the next speech the old eds. have
"Morocus" and "Moroccus:" but see note , p. 22.(i.e. note 162.)]

[Footnote 237: plage] i.e. region.--Old eds. "place."]

[Footnote 238: valour] Old eds. "value."]

[Footnote 239: again] So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 240: renowm'd] See note ||. p. 11.[i.e. note 52.]  So the 8vo.
--The 4to "renown'd."]

[Footnote 241: Damascus] Both the old eds. here "Damasco:" but in many
other places they agree in reading "Damascus."]

[Footnote 242: remorse] i.e. pity.]

[Footnote 243: sakes] So the 8vo.--The 4to. "sake."]

[Footnote 244: blubber'd] That this word formerly conveyed no ludicrous
idea, appears from many passages of our early writers.]

[Footnote 245: And use us like a loving conqueror] "i.e. And that he will
use us like, &c." Ed. 1826.]

[Footnote 246: care] So the 4to.--The 8vo "cares."]

[Footnote 247: helps] So the 8vo.--The 4to "help."]

[Footnote 248: or] So the 8vo.--The 4to "for."]

[Footnote 249: power] So the 8vo.--The 4to "powers."]

[Footnote 250: knew] So the 8vo.--The 4to "know."]

[Footnote 251: Reflexed] Old eds. "Reflexing."]

[Footnote 252: their] Old eds. "your."]

[Footnote 253: As] So the 8vo.--The 4to "And."]

[Footnote 254: tents] So the 8vo.--The 4to "tent."]

[Footnote 255: submission] Old eds. "submissions."]

[Footnote 256: of ruth and] So the 8vo.--The 4to "AND ruth OF."]

[Footnote 257: conceit] i.e. fancy, imagination.]

[Footnote 258: Hath] So the 4to.--The 8vo "Haue."]

[Footnote 259: nourish'd] So the 8vo.--The 4to "nourish."]

[Footnote 260: wish'd] So the 8vo.--The 4to "wish."]

[Footnote 261: imperious] So the 8vo.--The 4to "imprecious."]

[Footnote 262: passion] i.e. sorrow.]

[Footnote 263: resolved] i.e. dissolved.]

[Footnote 264: Eyes, when that Ebena steps to heaven, &c.] Either the
transcriber or the printer has made sad work with this
passage; nor am I able to suggest any probable emendation.]

[Footnote 265: fight] So the 8vo.--The 4to "fights."]

[Footnote 266: Persia's] Old eds. "Perseans," and "Persians."]

[Footnote 267: still] i.e. distil.]

[Footnote 268: I thus conceiving, and subduing both,
That which hath stoop'd the chiefest of the gods,
Even from the fiery-spangled veil of heaven,
To feel the lovely warmth of shepherds' flames,
And mask in cottages of strowed reeds, &c.

i.e. I thus feeling, and also subduing, the power of Beauty,
which has drawn down the chiefest of the gods even from, &c.

The 8vo has,
   "I thus conceiuing and subduing both.
    That which hath STOPT the TEMPEST of the Gods,
    Euen from the fiery spangled vaile of heauen,
    To feele the louely warmth of shepheards flames,
    And MARTCH in cottages of strowed WEEDS," &c.

The 4to has,
   "I thus concieuing and subduing both,
    That which hath STOPT the TEMPEST of the Gods,
    Euen from the SPANGLED FIRIE vaile of heauen,
    To feele the louely warmth of Shepheardes flames,
    And MARCH in COATCHES of strowed WEEDES," &c.

The alterations which I have made in this corrupted passage are
supported by the following lines of the play;

   "See now, ye slaves, my children STOOP YOUR PRIDE (i.e. make
      your pride to stoop),
    And lead your bodies sheep-like to the sword."
        Part Second,--act iv. sc. 1.

   "The chiefest god, FIRST MOVER OF THAT SPHERE", &c.
        Part First,--act iv. sc. 2.

   "Jove SOMETIME masked IN A SHEPHERD'S WEED", &c.
        Part First,--act i. sc. 2.

Perhaps in the third line of the present passage "fiery-spangled"
should be "FIRE-YSPANGLED."]

[Footnote 269: Attend.] Old eds. "An." (a misprint probably), which the
modern editors understand as "Anippe" (the waiting-maid of
Zenocrate).]

[Footnote 270: March on us with] So the 4to.--The 8vo "MARTCHT on WITH
vs with."]

[Footnote 271: As if there were no way but one with us] i.e. as if we
were to lose our lives.  This phrase, which is common in our
early writers, was not obsolete in Dryden's time:  "for, if he
heard the malicious trumpeter proclaiming his name before his
betters, he knew THERE WAS BUT ONE WAY WITH HIM." Preface to
ALL FOR LOVE.]

[Footnote 272: pore] So the 8vo.--The 4to "dore."]

[Footnote 273: in] i.e. on.]

[Footnote 274: stay] Old eds. "aie" and "aye."]

[Footnote 275: retorqued] i.e. bent back in reflections on our former
happiness.  So the 8vo.--The 4to "retortued."]

[Footnote 276: A] Old eds. "As."]

[Footnote 277: Elysium] Old eds. "Elisian."]

[Footnote 278: thoughts] So the 8vo.--The 4to "thought."]

[Footnote 279: parbreak] i.e. vomit.]

[Footnote 280: abjection] Old eds. "obiection."]

[Footnote 281: villainess] i.e. servant, slave,]

[Footnote 282: ruth] So the 8vo.--The 4to "truth."]

[Footnote 283: resolve] i.e. dissolve.]

[Footnote 284: bann'd] i.e. cursed.]

[Footnote 285: the] So the 4to.--The 8vo "thy."]

[Footnote 286: ever-living] So the 8vo.--The 4to. "euerlasting."]

[Footnote 287: give] So the 4to.--The 8vo "AND giue."]

[Footnote 288: her] Must mean Zenocrate, whom Zabina fancies herself to
be addressing.]

[Footnote 289: Let the soldiers be buried.--Hell, death, Tamburlaine]
So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.  (Where the modern editors got
their reading, "Let the soldiers be CURSED," I know not.)]

[Footnote 290: Make ready my coach] Shakespeare seems to have remembered
this passage when he made Ophelia say, "Come, my coach," &c.
HAMLET, act iv. sc. 5.]

[Footnote 291: I come, I come, I come] So the 8vo.--The 4to "I come, I
come."]

[Footnote 292: Egyptians'] So the 4to.--The 8vo "Egiptian.']

[Footnote 293: The] Old eds. "Thy."]

[Footnote 294: thy] So the 8vo.--The 4to "thine."]

[Footnote 295: war] So the 8vo.--The 4to "warres."]

[Footnote 296: Come] Old eds. "Comes" and "Comep."]

[Footnote 297: Armed] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Armes."]

[Footnote 298: final] So the 4to.--The 8vo "small."]

[Footnote 299: King of Arabia] i.e. Alcidamus; see p. 10, l. 9, sec. col.]

  [Page 10, Second Column, Line 9, This Play:
   "Where her betrothed lord, Alcidamus,"]

[Footnote 300: thy] So the 4to.--The 8vo "my."]

[Footnote 301: conceit] i.e. fancy, imagination.]

[Footnote 302: have] So the 8vo.--The 4to "hath."]

[Footnote 303: Euphrates] So our old poets invariably, I believe,
accentuate this word. [Note:  'Euphrates' was printed with no
accented characters at all.]

[Footnote 304: should] So the 8vo.--The 4to "shall."]

[Footnote 305: sweat] So the 8vo.--The 4to "sweare."]

[Footnote 306: wide-gaping] Old eds. "wide GASPING."]

[Footnote 307: resolv'd] i.e. dissolved.]

[Footnote 308: Millions] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Million."]

[Footnote 309: Elysium] Old eds. "Elisian."]

[Footnote 310: Renowmed] See note ||, p. 11.[i.e. note 52.]  So the 8vo.
--The 4to "Renowned."]

[Footnote 311: record] i.e. take to witness.]

[Footnote 312: no further time] i.e. no more distant time.]

[Footnote 313: the] So the 8vo.--The 4to "my."]

[Footnote 314: I not] So the 8vo.--The 4to "not I."]

[Footnote 315: Else] So the 4to.--The 8vo "Then."]

[Footnote 316: on] So the 4to.--Omitted in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 317: as beseems] So the 4to.--The 8vo "as BEST beseemes."]

[Footnote 318: We will our rites, &c.] Old eds. "We will our CELEBRATED
rites," &c.--"The word 'CELEBRATED' occurs in both the old
editions, but may well be dispensed with as regards both the
sense and measure." Ed. 1826. "I think this word got into the
text from either the author or printer, who was perhaps the
editor, doubting whether to use 'SOLEMNIZE' or 'CELEBRATE;'
and it slipt from the margin, where it was probably placed,
into the verse itself." J. M. in GENT. MAG. for Jan. 1841.]


Produced by Gary R. Young

TAMBURLAINE THE GREAT--THE SECOND PART

By Christopher Marlowe

Edited By The Rev. Alexander Dyce

COMMENTS ON THE PREPARATION OF THE E-TEXT:

SQUARE BRACKETS:

The square brackets, i.e. [ ] are copied from the printed book,
without change, except that the stage directions usually do not
have closing brackets.  These have been added.

ENDTNOTES:

For this E-Text version of the book, the footnotes have been
consolidated at the end of the play.

Numbering of the footnotes has been changed, and each footnote
is given a unique identity in the form [XXX].  One aditional
footnote [a] has been inserted.

Many of the footnotes refer back to notes to "The First Part
Of Tamburlaine the Great."  These references have been copied
and inserted into the notes to this play.

CHANGES TO THE TEXT:

Character names were expanded.  For Example, TAMBURLAINE was
TAMB., ZENOCRATE was ZENO., etc.

The Second Part of Tamburlaine the Great.
Concerning the old eds., see the prefatory matter
to THE FIRST PART.[a]

THE PROLOGUE.

     The general welcomes Tamburlaine receiv'd,
     When he arrived last upon the [1] stage,
     Have made our poet pen his Second Part,
     Where Death cuts off the progress of his pomp,
     And murderous Fates throw all his triumphs [2] down.
     But what became of fair Zenocrate,
     And with how many cities' sacrifice
     He celebrated her sad [3] funeral,
     Himself in presence shall unfold at large.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE.

     TAMBURLAINE, king of Persia.
     CALYPHAS,  ]
     AMYRAS,    ] his sons.
     CELEBINUS, ]
     THERIDAMAS, king of Argier.
     TECHELLES, king of Fez.
     USUMCASANE, king of Morocco.
     ORCANES, king of Natolia.
     KING OF TREBIZON.
     KING OF SORIA.
     KING OF JERUSALEM.
     KING OF AMASIA.
     GAZELLUS, viceroy of Byron.
     URIBASSA.
     SIGISMUND, King of Hungary.
     FREDERICK, ]
     BALDWIN,   ] Lords of Buda and Bohemia.
     CALLAPINE, son to BAJAZETH, and prisoner to TAMBURLAINE.
     ALMEDA, his keeper.
     GOVERNOR OF BABYLON.
     CAPTAIN OF BALSERA.
     HIS SON.
     ANOTHER CAPTAIN.
     MAXIMUS, PERDICAS, Physicians, Lords, Citizens, Messengers,
     Soldiers, and Attendants.

     ZENOCRATE, wife to TAMBURLAINE.
     OLYMPIA, wife to the CAPTAIN OF BALSERA.
     Turkish Concubines.

THE SECOND PART OF TAMBURLAINE THE GREAT.

ACT I.

SCENE I.

          Enter ORCANES king of Natolia, GAZELLUS viceroy of Byron,
          URIBASSA, [4] and their train, with drums and trumpets.

     ORCANES.  Egregious viceroys of these eastern parts,
     Plac'd by the issue of great Bajazeth,
     And sacred lord, the mighty Callapine,
     Who lives in Egypt prisoner to that slave
     Which kept his father in an iron cage,--
     Now have we march'd from fair Natolia
     Two hundred leagues, and on Danubius' banks
     Our warlike host, in complete armour, rest,
     Where Sigismund, the king of Hungary,
     Should meet our person to conclude a truce:
     What! shall we parle with the Christian?
     Or cross the stream, and meet him in the field?

     GAZELLUS.  King of Natolia, let us treat of peace:
     We all are glutted with the Christians' blood,
     And have a greater foe to fight against,--
     Proud Tamburlaine, that now in Asia,
     Near Guyron's head, doth set his conquering feet,
     And means to fire Turkey as he goes:
     'Gainst him, my lord, you must address your power.

     URIBASSA.  Besides, King Sigismund hath brought from Christendom
     More than his camp of stout Hungarians,--
     Sclavonians, Almains, Rutters, [5] Muffs, and Danes,
     That with the halberd, lance, and murdering axe,
     Will hazard that we might with surety hold.

     ORCANES. [6]  Though from the shortest northern parallel,
     Vast Grantland, compass'd with the Frozen Sea,
     (Inhabited with tall and sturdy men,
     Giants as big as hugy [7] Polypheme,)
     Millions of soldiers cut the [8] arctic line,
     Bringing the strength of Europe to these arms,
     Our Turkey blades shall glide through all their throats,
     And make this champion [9] mead a bloody fen:
     Danubius' stream, that runs to Trebizon,
     Shall carry, wrapt within his scarlet waves,
     As martial presents to our friends at home,
     The slaughter'd bodies of these Christians:
     The Terrene [10] main, wherein Danubius falls,
     Shall by this battle be the bloody sea:
     The wandering sailors of proud Italy
     Shall meet those Christians, fleeting with the tide,
     Beating in heaps against their argosies,
     And make fair Europe, mounted on her bull,
     Trapp'd with the wealth and riches of the world,
     Alight, and wear a woful mourning weed.

     GAZELLUS.  Yet, stout Orcanes, pro-rex of the world,
     Since Tamburlaine hath muster'd all his men,
     Marching from Cairo [11] northward, with his camp,
     To Alexandria and the frontier towns,
     Meaning to make a conquest of our land,
     'Tis requisite to parle for a peace
     With Sigismund, the king of Hungary,
     And save our forces for the hot assaults
     Proud Tamburlaine intends Natolia.

     ORCANES.  Viceroy of Byron, wisely hast thou said.
     My realm, the centre of our empery,
     Once lost, all Turkey would be overthrown;
     And for that cause the Christians shall have peace.
     Sclavonians, Almains, Rutters, Muffs, and Danes,
     Fear [12] not Orcanes, but great Tamburlaine;
     Nor he, but Fortune that hath made him great.
     We have revolted Grecians, Albanese,
     Sicilians, Jews, Arabians, Turks, and Moors,
     Natolians, Sorians, [13] black [14] Egyptians,
     Illyrians, Thracians, and Bithynians, [15]
     Enough to swallow forceless Sigismund,
     Yet scarce enough t' encounter Tamburlaine.
     He brings a world of people to the field,
     ]From Scythia to the oriental plage [16]
     Of India, where raging Lantchidol
     Beats on the regions with his boisterous blows,
     That never seaman yet discovered.
     All Asia is in arms with Tamburlaine,
     Even from the midst of fiery Cancer's tropic
     To Amazonia under Capricorn;
     And thence, as far as Archipelago,
     All Afric is in arms with Tamburlaine:
     Therefore, viceroy, [17] the Christians must have peace.

          Enter SIGISMUND, FREDERICK, BALDWIN, and their
          train, with drums and trumpets.

     SIGISMUND.  Orcanes, (as our legates promis'd thee,)
     We, with our peers, have cross'd Danubius' stream,
     To treat of friendly peace or deadly war.
     Take which thou wilt; for, as the Romans us'd,
     I here present thee with a naked sword:
     Wilt thou have war, then shake this blade at me;
     If peace, restore it to my hands again,
     And I will sheathe it, to confirm the same.

     ORCANES.  Stay, Sigismund:  forgett'st thou I am he
     That with the cannon shook Vienna-walls,
     And made it dance upon the continent,
     As when the massy substance of the earth
     Quiver[s] about the axle-tree of heaven?
     Forgett'st thou that I sent a shower of darts,
     Mingled with powder'd shot and feather'd steel,
     So thick upon the blink-ey'd burghers' heads,
     That thou thyself, then County Palatine,
     The King of Boheme, [18] and the Austric Duke,
     Sent heralds out, which basely on their knees,
     In all your names, desir'd a truce of me?
     Forgett'st thou that, to have me raise my siege,
     Waggons of gold were set before my tent,
     Stampt with the princely fowl that in her wings
     Carries the fearful thunderbolts of Jove?
     How canst thou think of this, and offer war?

     SIGISMUND.  Vienna was besieg'd, and I was there,
     Then County Palatine, but now a king,
     And what we did was in extremity
     But now, Orcanes, view my royal host,
     That hides these plains, and seems as vast and wide
     As doth the desert of Arabia
     To those that stand on Bagdet's [19] lofty tower,
     Or as the ocean to the traveller
     That rests upon the snowy Appenines;
     And tell me whether I should stoop so low,
     Or treat of peace with the Natolian king.

     GAZELLUS.  Kings of Natolia and of Hungary,
     We came from Turkey to confirm a league,
     And not to dare each other to the field.
     A friendly parle [20] might become you both.

     FREDERICK.  And we from Europe, to the same intent; [21]
     Which if your general refuse or scorn,
     Our tents are pitch'd, our men stand [22] in array,
     Ready to charge you ere you stir your feet.

     ORCANES.  So prest [23] are we:  but yet, if Sigismund
     Speak as a friend, and stand not upon terms,
     Here is his sword; let peace be ratified
     On these conditions specified before,
     Drawn with advice of our ambassadors.

     SIGISMUND.  Then here I sheathe it, and give thee my hand,
     Never to draw it out, or [24] manage arms
     Against thyself or thy confederates,
     But, whilst I live, will be at truce with thee.

     ORCANES.  But, Sigismund, confirm it with an oath,
     And swear in sight of heaven and by thy Christ.

     SIGISMUND.  By Him that made the world and sav'd my soul,
     The Son of God and issue of a maid,
     Sweet Jesus Christ, I solemnly protest
     And vow to keep this peace inviolable!

     ORCANES.  By sacred Mahomet, the friend of God,
     Whose holy Alcoran remains with us,
     Whose glorious body, when he left the world,
     Clos'd in a coffin mounted up the air,
     And hung on stately Mecca's temple-roof,
     I swear to keep this truce inviolable!
     Of whose conditions [25] and our solemn oaths,
     Sign'd with our hands, each shall retain a scroll,
     As memorable witness of our league.
     Now, Sigismund, if any Christian king
     Encroach upon the confines of thy realm,
     Send word, Orcanes of Natolia
     Confirm'd [26] this league beyond Danubius' stream,
     And they will, trembling, sound a quick retreat;
     So am I fear'd among all nations.

     SIGISMUND.  If any heathen potentate or king
     Invade Natolia, Sigismund will send
     A hundred thousand horse train'd to the war,
     And back'd by [27] stout lanciers of Germany,
     The strength and sinews of the imperial seat.

     ORCANES.  I thank thee, Sigismund; but, when I war,
     All Asia Minor, Africa, and Greece,
     Follow my standard and my thundering drums.
     Come, let us go and banquet in our tents:
     I will despatch chief of my army hence
     To fair Natolia and to Trebizon,
     To stay my coming 'gainst proud Tamburlaine:
     Friend Sigismund, and peers of Hungary,
     Come, banquet and carouse with us a while,
     And then depart we to our territories.
          [Exeunt.]

SCENE II.

          Enter CALLAPINE, and ALMEDA his keeper.

     CALLAPINE.  Sweet Almeda, pity the ruthful plight
     Of Callapine, the son of Bajazeth,
     Born to be monarch of the western world,
     Yet here detain'd by cruel Tamburlaine.

     ALMEDA.  My lord, I pity it, and with my heart
     Wish your release; but he whose wrath is death,
     My sovereign lord, renowmed [28] Tamburlaine,
     Forbids you further liberty than this.

     CALLAPINE.  Ah, were I now but half so eloquent
     To paint in words what I'll perform in deeds,
     I know thou wouldst depart from hence with me!

     ALMEDA.  Not for all Afric:  therefore move me not.

     CALLAPINE.  Yet hear me speak, my gentle Almeda.

     ALMEDA.  No speech to that end, by your favour, sir.

     CALLAPINE.  By Cairo [29] runs--

     ALMEDA.  No talk of running, I tell you, sir.

     CALLAPINE.  A little further, gentle Almeda.

     ALMEDA.  Well, sir, what of this?

     CALLAPINE.  By Cairo runs to Alexandria-bay
     Darotes' stream, [30] wherein at [31] anchor lies
     A Turkish galley of my royal fleet,
     Waiting my coming to the river-side,
     Hoping by some means I shall be releas'd;
     Which, when I come aboard, will hoist up sail,
     And soon put forth into the Terrene [32] sea,
     Where, [33] 'twixt the isles of Cyprus and of Crete,
     We quickly may in Turkish seas arrive.
     Then shalt thou see a hundred kings and more,
     Upon their knees, all bid me welcome home.
     Amongst so many crowns of burnish'd gold,
     Choose which thou wilt, all are at thy command:
     A thousand galleys, mann'd with Christian slaves,
     I freely give thee, which shall cut the Straits,
     And bring armadoes, from [34] the coasts of Spain,
     Fraughted with gold of rich America:
     The Grecian virgins shall attend on thee,
     Skilful in music and in amorous lays,
     As fair as was Pygmalion's ivory girl
     Or lovely Io metamorphosed:
     With naked negroes shall thy coach be drawn,
     And, as thou rid'st in triumph through the streets,
     The pavement underneath thy chariot-wheels
     With Turkey-carpets shall be covered,
     And cloth of arras hung about the walls,
     Fit objects for thy princely eye to pierce:
     A hundred bassoes, cloth'd in crimson silk,
     Shall ride before thee on Barbarian steeds;
     And, when thou goest, a golden canopy
     Enchas'd with precious stones, which shine as bright
     As that fair veil that covers all the world,
     When Phoebus, leaping from his hemisphere,
     Descendeth downward to th' Antipodes:--
     And more than this, for all I cannot tell.

     ALMEDA.  How far hence lies the galley, say you?

     CALLAPINE.  Sweet Almeda, scarce half a league from hence.

     ALMEDA.  But need [35] we not be spied going aboard?

     CALLAPINE.  Betwixt the hollow hanging of a hill,
     And crooked bending of a craggy rock,
     The sails wrapt up, the mast and tacklings down,
     She lies so close that none can find her out.

     ALMEDA.  I like that well:  but, tell me, my lord,
     if I should let you go, would you be as good as
     your word? shall I be made a king for my labour?

     CALLAPINE.  As I am Callapine the emperor,
     And by the hand of Mahomet I swear,
     Thou shalt be crown'd a king, and be my mate!

     ALMEDA.  Then here I swear, as I am Almeda,
     Your keeper under Tamburlaine the Great,
     (For that's the style and title I have yet,)
     Although he sent a thousand armed men
     To intercept this haughty enterprize,
     Yet would I venture to conduct your grace,
     And die before I brought you back again!

     CALLAPINE.  Thanks, gentle Almeda:  then let us haste,
     Lest time be past, and lingering let [36] us both.

     ALMEDA.  When you will, my lord:  I am ready.

     CALLAPINE.  Even straight:--and farewell, cursed Tamburlaine!
     Now go I to revenge my father's death.
          [Exeunt.]

SCENE III.

          Enter TAMBURLAINE, ZENOCRATE, and their three sons,
          CALYPHAS, AMYRAS, and CELEBINUS, with drums and trumpets.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Now, bright Zenocrate, the world's fair eye,
     Whose beams illuminate the lamps of heaven,
     Whose cheerful looks do clear the cloudy air,
     And clothe it in a crystal livery,
     Now rest thee here on fair Larissa-plains,
     Where Egypt and the Turkish empire part
     Between thy sons, that shall be emperors,
     And every one commander of a world.

     ZENOCRATE.  Sweet Tamburlaine, when wilt thou leave these arms,
     And save thy sacred person free from scathe,
     And dangerous chances of the wrathful war?

     TAMBURLAINE.  When heaven shall cease to move on both the poles,
     And when the ground, whereon my soldiers march,
     Shall rise aloft and touch the horned moon;
     And not before, my sweet Zenocrate.
     Sit up, and rest thee like a lovely queen.
     So; now she sits in pomp and majesty,
     When these, my sons, more precious in mine eyes
     Than all the wealthy kingdoms I subdu'd,
     Plac'd by her side, look on their mother's face.
     But yet methinks their looks are amorous,
     Not martial as the sons of Tamburlaine:
     Water and air, being symboliz'd in one,
     Argue their want of courage and of wit;
     Their hair as white as milk, and soft as down,
     (Which should be like the quills of porcupines,
     As black as jet, and hard as iron or steel,)
     Bewrays they are too dainty for the wars;
     Their fingers made to quaver on a lute,
     Their arms to hang about a lady's neck,
     Their legs to dance and caper in the air,
     Would make me think them bastards, not my sons,
     But that I know they issu'd from thy womb,
     That never look'd on man but Tamburlaine.

     ZENOCRATE.  My gracious lord, they have their mother's looks,
     But, when they list, their conquering father's heart.
     This lovely boy, the youngest of the three,
     Not long ago bestrid a Scythian steed,
     Trotting the ring, and tilting at a glove,
     Which when he tainted [37] with his slender rod,
     He rein'd him straight, and made him so curvet
     As I cried out for fear he should have faln.

     TAMBURLAINE.
     Well done, my boy! thou shalt have shield and lance,
     Armour of proof, horse, helm, and curtle-axe,
     And I will teach thee how to charge thy foe,
     And harmless run among the deadly pikes.
     If thou wilt love the wars and follow me,
     Thou shalt be made a king and reign with me,
     Keeping in iron cages emperors.
     If thou exceed thy elder brothers' worth,
     And shine in complete virtue more than they,
     Thou shalt be king before them, and thy seed
     Shall issue crowned from their mother's womb.

     CELEBINUS.  Yes, father; you shall see me, if I live,
     Have under me as many kings as you,
     And march with such a multitude of men
     As all the world shall [38] tremble at their view.

     TAMBURLAINE.  These words assure me, boy, thou art my son.
     When I am old and cannot manage arms,
     Be thou the scourge and terror of the world.

     AMYRAS.  Why may not I, my lord, as well as he,
     Be term'd the scourge and terror of [39] the world?

     TAMBURLAINE.  Be all a scourge and terror to [40] the world,
     Or else you are not sons of Tamburlaine.

     CALYPHAS.  But, while my brothers follow arms, my lord,
     Let me accompany my gracious mother:
     They are enough to conquer all the world,
     And you have won enough for me to keep.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Bastardly boy, sprung [41] from some coward's loins,
     And not the issue of great Tamburlaine!
     Of all the provinces I have subdu'd
     Thou shalt not have a foot, unless thou bear
     A mind courageous and invincible;
     For he shall wear the crown of Persia
     Whose head hath deepest scars, whose breast most wounds,
     Which, being wroth, sends lightning from his eyes,
     And in the furrows of his frowning brows
     Harbours revenge, war, death, and cruelty;
     For in a field, whose superficies [42]
     Is cover'd with a liquid purple veil,
     And sprinkled with the brains of slaughter'd men,
     My royal chair of state shall be advanc'd;
     And he that means to place himself therein,
     Must armed wade up to the chin in blood.

     ZENOCRATE.  My lord, such speeches to our princely sons
     Dismay their minds before they come to prove
     The wounding troubles angry war affords.

     CELEBINUS.  No, madam, these are speeches fit for us;
     For, if his chair were in a sea of blood,
     I would prepare a ship and sail to it,
     Ere I would lose the title of a king.

     AMYRAS.  And I would strive to swim through [43] pools of blood,
     Or make a bridge of murder'd carcasses, [44]
     Whose arches should be fram'd with bones of Turks,
     Ere I would lose the title of a king.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Well, lovely boys, ye shall be emperors both,
     Stretching your conquering arms from east to west:--
     And, sirrah, if you mean to wear a crown,
     When we [45] shall meet the Turkish deputy
     And all his viceroys, snatch it from his head,
     And cleave his pericranion with thy sword.

     CALYPHAS.  If any man will hold him, I will strike,
     And cleave him to the channel [46] with my sword.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Hold him, and cleave him too, or I'll cleave thee;
     For we will march against them presently.
     Theridamas, Techelles, and Casane
     Promis'd to meet me on Larissa-plains,
     With hosts a-piece against this Turkish crew;
     For I have sworn by sacred Mahomet
     To make it parcel of my empery.
     The trumpets sound; Zenocrate, they come.
          Enter THERIDAMAS, and his train, with drums and trumpets.
     Welcome, Theridamas, king of Argier.

     THERIDAMAS.  My lord, the great and mighty Tamburlaine,
     Arch-monarch of the world, I offer here
     My crown, myself, and all the power I have,
     In all affection at thy kingly feet.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Thanks, good Theridamas.

     THERIDAMAS.  Under my colours march ten thousand Greeks,
     And of Argier and Afric's frontier towns
     Twice twenty thousand valiant men-at-arms;
     All which have sworn to sack Natolia.
     Five hundred brigandines are under sail,
     Meet for your service on the sea, my lord,
     That, launching from Argier to Tripoly,
     Will quickly ride before Natolia,
     And batter down the castles on the shore.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Well said, Argier! receive thy crown again.
          Enter USUMCASANE and TECHELLES.
     Kings of Morocco [47] and of Fez, welcome.

     USUMCASANE.  Magnificent and peerless Tamburlaine,
     I and my neighbour king of Fez have brought,
     To aid thee in this Turkish expedition,
     A hundred thousand expert soldiers;
     ]From Azamor to Tunis near the sea
     Is Barbary unpeopled for thy sake,
     And all the men in armour under me,
     Which with my crown I gladly offer thee.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Thanks, king of Morocco:  take your crown again.

     TECHELLES.  And, mighty Tamburlaine, our earthly god,
     Whose looks make this inferior world to quake,
     I here present thee with the crown of Fez,
     And with an host of Moors train'd to the war, [48]
     Whose coal-black faces make their foes retire,
     And quake for fear, as if infernal [49] Jove,
     Meaning to aid thee [50] in these [51] Turkish arms,
     Should pierce the black circumference of hell,
     With ugly Furies bearing fiery flags,
     And millions of his strong [52] tormenting spirits:
     ]From strong Tesella unto Biledull
     All Barbary is unpeopled for thy sake.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Thanks, king of Fez:  take here thy crown again.
     Your presence, loving friends and fellow-kings,
     Makes me to surfeit in conceiving joy:
     If all the crystal gates of Jove's high court
     Were open'd wide, and I might enter in
     To see the state and majesty of heaven,
     It could not more delight me than your sight.
     Now will we banquet on these plains a while,
     And after march to Turkey with our camp,
     In number more than are the drops that fall
     When Boreas rents a thousand swelling clouds;
     And proud Orcanes of Natolia
     With all his viceroys shall be so afraid,
     That, though the stones, as at Deucalion's flood,
     Were turn'd to men, he should be overcome.
     Such lavish will I make of Turkish blood,
     That Jove shall send his winged messenger
     To bid me sheathe my sword and leave the field;
     The sun, unable to sustain the sight,
     Shall hide his head in Thetis' watery lap,
     And leave his steeds to fair Bootes' [53] charge;
     For half the world shall perish in this fight.
     But now, my friends, let me examine ye;
     How have ye spent your absent time from me?

     USUMCASANE.  My lord, our men of Barbary have march'd
     Four hundred miles with armour on their backs,
     And lain in leaguer [54] fifteen months and more;
     For, since we left you at the Soldan's court,
     We have subdu'd the southern Guallatia,
     And all the land unto the coast of Spain;
     We kept the narrow Strait of Jubalter, [55]
     And made Canaria call us kings and lords:
     Yet never did they recreate themselves,
     Or cease one day from war and hot alarms;
     And therefore let them rest a while, my lord.

     TAMBURLAINE.  They shall, Casane, and 'tis time, i'faith.

     TECHELLES.  And I have march'd along the river Nile
     To Machda, where the mighty Christian priest,
     Call'd John the Great, [56] sits in a milk-white robe,
     Whose triple mitre I did take by force,
     And made him swear obedience to my crown.
     ]From thence unto Cazates did I march,
     Where Amazonians met me in the field,
     With whom, being women, I vouchsaf'd a league,
     And with my power did march to Zanzibar,
     The western part of Afric, where I view'd
     The Ethiopian sea, rivers and lakes,
     But neither man nor child in all the land:
     Therefore I took my course to Manico,
     Where, [57] unresisted, I remov'd my camp;
     And, by the coast of Byather, [58] at last
     I came to Cubar, where the negroes dwell,
     And, conquering that, made haste to Nubia.
     There, having sack'd Borno, the kingly seat,
     I took the king and led him bound in chains
     Unto Damascus, [59] where I stay'd before.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Well done, Techelles!--What saith Theridamas?

     THERIDAMAS.  I left the confines and the bounds of Afric,
     And made [60] a voyage into Europe,
     Where, by the river Tyras, I subdu'd
     Stoka, Podolia, and Codemia;
     Then cross'd the sea and came to Oblia,
     And Nigra Silva, where the devils dance,
     Which, in despite of them, I set on fire.
     ]From thence I cross'd the gulf call'd by the name
     Mare Majore of the inhabitants.
     Yet shall my soldiers make no period
     Until Natolia kneel before your feet.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Then will we triumph, banquet and carouse;
     Cooks shall have pensions to provide us cates,
     And glut us with the dainties of the world;
     Lachryma Christi and Calabrian wines
     Shall common soldiers drink in quaffing bowls,
     Ay, liquid gold, when we have conquer'd him, [61]
     Mingled with coral and with orient [62] pearl.
     Come, let us banquet and carouse the whiles.
          [Exeunt.]

ACT II.

SCENE I.

          Enter SIGISMUND, FREDERICK, and BALDWIN, with their train.

     SIGISMUND.  Now say, my lords of Buda and Bohemia,
     What motion is it that inflames your thoughts,
     And stirs your valours to such sudden arms?

     FREDERICK.  Your majesty remembers, I am sure,
     What cruel slaughter of our Christian bloods
     These heathenish Turks and pagans lately made
     Betwixt the city Zula and Danubius;
     How through the midst of Varna and Bulgaria,
     And almost to the very walls of Rome,
     They have, not long since, massacred our camp.
     It resteth now, then, that your majesty
     Take all advantages of time and power,
     And work revenge upon these infidels.
     Your highness knows, for Tamburlaine's repair,
     That strikes a terror to all Turkish hearts,
     Natolia hath dismiss'd the greatest part
     Of all his army, pitch'd against our power
     Betwixt Cutheia and Orminius' mount,
     And sent them marching up to Belgasar,
     Acantha, Antioch, and Caesarea,
     To aid the kings of Soria [63] and Jerusalem.
     Now, then, my lord, advantage take thereof, [64]
     And issue suddenly upon the rest;
     That, in the fortune of their overthrow,
     We may discourage all the pagan troop
     That dare attempt to war with Christians.

     SIGISMUND.  But calls not, then, your grace to memory
     The league we lately made with King Orcanes,
     Confirm'd by oath and articles of peace,
     And calling Christ for record of our truths?
     This should be treachery and violence
     Against the grace of our profession.

     BALDWIN.  No whit, my lord; for with such infidels,
     In whom no faith nor true religion rests,
     We are not bound to those accomplishments
     The holy laws of Christendom enjoin;
     But, as the faith which they profanely plight
     Is not by necessary policy
     To be esteem'd assurance for ourselves,
     So that we vow [65] to them should not infringe
     Our liberty of arms and victory.

     SIGISMUND.  Though I confess the oaths they undertake
     Breed little strength to our security,
     Yet those infirmities that thus defame
     Their faiths, [66] their honours, and religion, [67]
     Should not give us presumption to the like.
     Our faiths are sound, and must be consummate, [68]
     Religious, righteous, and inviolate.

     FREDERICK.  Assure your grace, 'tis superstition
     To stand so strictly on dispensive faith;
     And, should we lose the opportunity
     That God hath given to venge our Christians' death,
     And scourge their foul blasphemous paganism,
     As fell to Saul, to Balaam, and the rest,
     That would not kill and curse at God's command,
     So surely will the vengeance of the Highest,
     And jealous anger of his fearful arm,
     Be pour'd with rigour on our sinful heads,
     If we neglect this [69] offer'd victory.

     SIGISMUND.  Then arm, my lords, and issue suddenly,
     Giving commandment to our general host,
     With expedition to assail the pagan,
     And take the victory our God hath given.
          [Exeunt.]

SCENE II.

          Enter ORCANES, GAZELLUS, and URIBASSA, with their train.

     ORCANES.  Gazellus, Uribassa, and the rest,
     Now will we march from proud Orminius' mount
     To fair Natolia, where our neighbour kings
     Expect our power and our royal presence,
     T' encounter with the cruel Tamburlaine,
     That nigh Larissa sways a mighty host,
     And with the thunder of his martial [70] tools
     Makes earthquakes in the hearts of men and heaven.

     GAZELLUS.  And now come we to make his sinews shake
     With greater power than erst his pride hath felt.
     An hundred kings, by scores, will bid him arms,
     And hundred thousands subjects to each score:
     Which, if a shower of wounding thunderbolts
     Should break out of the bowels of the clouds,
     And fall as thick as hail upon our heads,
     In partial aid of that proud Scythian,
     Yet should our courages and steeled crests,
     And numbers, more than infinite, of men,
     Be able to withstand and conquer him.

     URIBASSA.  Methinks I see how glad the Christian king
     Is made for joy of our [71] admitted truce,
     That could not but before be terrified
     With [72] unacquainted power of our host.

          Enter a Messenger.

     MESSENGER.  Arm, dread sovereign, and my noble lords!
     The treacherous army of the Christians,
     Taking advantage of your slender power,
     Comes marching on us, and determines straight
     To bid us battle for our dearest lives.

     ORCANES.  Traitors, villains, damned Christians!
     Have I not here the articles of peace
     And solemn covenants we have both confirm'd,
     He by his Christ, and I by Mahomet?

     GAZELLUS.  Hell and confusion light upon their heads,
     That with such treason seek our overthrow,
     And care so little for their prophet Christ!

     ORCANES.  Can there be such deceit in Christians,
     Or treason in the fleshly heart of man,
     Whose shape is figure of the highest God?
     Then, if there be a Christ, as Christians say,
     But in their deeds deny him for their Christ,
     If he be son to everliving Jove,
     And hath the power of his outstretched arm,
     If he be jealous of his name and honour
     As is our holy prophet Mahomet,
     Take here these papers as our sacrifice
     And witness of thy servant's [73] perjury!
          [He tears to pieces the articles of peace.]
     Open, thou shining veil of Cynthia,
     And make a passage from th' empyreal heaven,
     That he that sits on high and never sleeps,
     Nor in one place is circumscriptible,
     But every where fills every continent
     With strange infusion of his sacred vigour,
     May, in his endless power and purity,
     Behold and venge this traitor's perjury!
     Thou, Christ, that art esteem'd omnipotent,
     If thou wilt prove thyself a perfect God,
     Worthy the worship of all faithful hearts,
     Be now reveng'd upon this traitor's soul,
     And make the power I have left behind
     (Too little to defend our guiltless lives)
     Sufficient to discomfit [74] and confound
     The trustless force of those false Christians!--
     To arms, my lords! [75] on Christ still let us cry:
     If there be Christ, we shall have victory.
          [Exeunt.]

SCENE III.

          Alarms of battle within.  Enter SIGISMUND wounded.

     SIGISMUND.  Discomfited is all the Christian [76] host,
     And God hath thunder'd vengeance from on high,
     For my accurs'd and hateful perjury.
     O just and dreadful punisher of sin,
     Let the dishonour of the pains I feel
     In this my mortal well-deserved wound
     End all my penance in my sudden death!
     And let this death, wherein to sin I die,
     Conceive a second life in endless mercy!
          [Dies.]

          Enter ORCANES, GAZELLUS, URIBASSA, with others.

     ORCANES.  Now lie the Christians bathing in their bloods,
     And Christ or Mahomet hath been my friend.

     GAZELLUS.  See, here the perjur'd traitor Hungary,
     Bloody and breathless for his villany!

     ORCANES.  Now shall his barbarous body be a prey
     To beasts and fowls, and all the winds shall breathe,
     Through shady leaves of every senseless tree,
     Murmurs and hisses for his heinous sin.
     Now scalds his soul in the Tartarian streams,
     And feeds upon the baneful tree of hell,
     That Zoacum, [77] that fruit of bitterness,
     That in the midst of fire is ingraff'd,
     Yet flourisheth, as Flora in her pride,
     With apples like the heads of damned fiends.
     The devils there, in chains of quenchless flame,
     Shall lead his soul, through Orcus' burning gulf,
     ]From pain to pain, whose change shall never end.
     What say'st thou yet, Gazellus, to his foil,
     Which we referr'd to justice of his Christ
     And to his power, which here appears as full
     As rays of Cynthia to the clearest sight?

     GAZELLUS.  'Tis but the fortune of the wars, my lord,
     Whose power is often prov'd a miracle.

     ORCANES.  Yet in my thoughts shall Christ be honoured,
     Not doing Mahomet an [78] injury,
     Whose power had share in this our victory;
     And, since this miscreant hath disgrac'd his faith,
     And died a traitor both to heaven and earth,
     We will both watch and ward shall keep his trunk [79]
     Amidst these plains for fowls to prey upon.
     Go, Uribassa, give [80] it straight in charge.

     URIBASSA.  I will, my lord.
          [Exit.]

     ORCANES.  And now, Gazellus, let us haste and meet
     Our army, and our brother[s] of Jerusalem,
     Of Soria, [81] Trebizon, and Amasia,
     And happily, with full Natolian bowls
     Of Greekish wine, now let us celebrate
     Our happy conquest and his angry fate.
          [Exeunt.]

SCENE IV.

          The arras is drawn, and ZENOCRATE is discovered lying
          in her bed of state; TAMBURLAINE sitting by her; three
          PHYSICIANS about her bed, tempering potions; her three
          sons, CALYPHAS, AMYRAS, and CELEBINUS; THERIDAMAS,
          TECHELLES, and USUMCASANE.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Black is the beauty of the brightest day;
     The golden ball of heaven's eternal fire,
     That danc'd with glory on the silver waves,
     Now wants the fuel that inflam'd his beams;
     And all with faintness, and for foul disgrace,
     He binds his temples with a frowning cloud,
     Ready to darken earth with endless night.
     Zenocrate, that gave him light and life,
     Whose eyes shot fire from their [82] ivory brows, [83]
     And temper'd every soul with lively heat,
     Now by the malice of the angry skies,
     Whose jealousy admits no second mate,
     Draws in the comfort of her latest breath,
     All dazzled with the hellish mists of death.
     Now walk the angels on the walls of heaven,
     As sentinels to warn th' immortal souls
     To entertain divine Zenocrate:
     Apollo, Cynthia, and the ceaseless lamps
     That gently look'd upon this [84] loathsome earth,
     Shine downwards now no more, but deck the heavens
     To entertain divine Zenocrate:
     The crystal springs, whose taste illuminates
     Refined eyes with an eternal sight,
     Like tried silver run through Paradise
     To entertain divine Zenocrate:
     The cherubins and holy seraphins,
     That sing and play before the King of Kings,
     Use all their voices and their instruments
     To entertain divine Zenocrate;
     And, in this sweet and curious harmony,
     The god that tunes this music to our souls
     Holds out his hand in highest majesty
     To entertain divine Zenocrate.
     Then let some holy trance convey my thoughts
     Up to the palace of th' empyreal heaven,
     That this my life may be as short to me
     As are the days of sweet Zenocrate.--
     Physicians, will no [85] physic do her good?

     FIRST PHYSICIAN.  My lord, your majesty shall soon perceive,
     An if she pass this fit, the worst is past.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Tell me, how fares my fair Zenocrate?

     ZENOCRATE.  I fare, my lord, as other empresses,
     That, when this frail and [86] transitory flesh
     Hath suck'd the measure of that vital air
     That feeds the body with his dated health,
     Wane with enforc'd and necessary change.

     TAMBURLAINE.  May never such a change transform my love,
     In whose sweet being I repose my life!
     Whose heavenly presence, beautified with health,
     Gives light to Phoebus and the fixed stars;
     Whose absence makes [87] the sun and moon as dark
     As when, oppos'd in one diameter,
     Their spheres are mounted on the serpent's head,
     Or else descended to his winding train.
     Live still, my love, and so conserve my life,
     Or, dying, be the author [88] of my death.

     ZENOCRATE.  Live still, my lord; O, let my sovereign live!
     And sooner let the fiery element
     Dissolve, and make your kingdom in the sky,
     Than this base earth should shroud your majesty;
     For, should I but suspect your death by mine,
     The comfort of my future happiness,
     And hope to meet your highness in the heavens,
     Turn'd to despair, would break my wretched breast,
     And fury would confound my present rest.
     But let me die, my love; yes, [89] let me die;
     With love and patience let your true love die:
     Your grief and fury hurts my second life.
     Yet let me kiss my lord before I die,
     And let me die with kissing of my lord.
     But, since my life is lengthen'd yet a while,
     Let me take leave of these my loving sons,
     And of my lords, whose true nobility
     Have merited my latest memory.
     Sweet sons, farewell! in death resemble me,
     And in your lives your father's excellence. [90]
     Some music, and my fit will cease, my lord.
          [They call for music.]

     TAMBURLAINE.  Proud fury, and intolerable fit,
     That dares torment the body of my love,
     And scourge the scourge of the immortal God!
     Now are those spheres, where Cupid us'd to sit,
     Wounding the world with wonder and with love,
     Sadly supplied with pale and ghastly death,
     Whose darts do pierce the centre of my soul.
     Her sacred beauty hath enchanted heaven;
     And, had she liv'd before the siege of Troy,
     Helen, whose beauty summon'd Greece to arms,
     And drew a thousand ships to Tenedos,
     Had not been nam'd in Homer's Iliads,--
     Her name had been in every line he wrote;
     Or, had those wanton poets, for whose birth
     Old Rome was proud, but gaz'd a while on her,
     Nor Lesbia nor Corinna had been nam'd,--
     Zenocrate had been the argument
     Of every epigram or elegy.
          [The music sounds--ZENOCRATE dies.]
     What, is she dead?  Techelles, draw thy sword,
     And wound the earth, that it may cleave in twain,
     And we descend into th' infernal vaults,
     To hale the Fatal Sisters by the hair,
     And throw them in the triple moat of hell,
     For taking hence my fair Zenocrate.
     Casane and Theridamas, to arms!
     Raise cavalieros [91] higher than the clouds,
     And with the cannon break the frame of heaven;
     Batter the shining palace of the sun,
     And shiver all the starry firmament,
     For amorous Jove hath snatch'd my love from hence,
     Meaning to make her stately queen of heaven.
     What god soever holds thee in his arms,
     Giving thee nectar and ambrosia,
     Behold me here, divine Zenocrate,
     Raving, impatient, desperate, and mad,
     Breaking my steeled lance, with which I burst
     The rusty beams of Janus' temple-doors,
     Letting out Death and tyrannizing War,
     To march with me under this bloody flag!
     And, if thou pitiest Tamburlaine the Great,
     Come down from heaven, and live with me again!

     THERIDAMAS.  Ah, good my lord, be patient! she is dead,
     And all this raging cannot make her live.
     If words might serve, our voice hath rent the air;
     If tears, our eyes have water'd all the earth;
     If grief, our murder'd hearts have strain'd forth blood:
     Nothing prevails, [92] for she is dead, my lord.

     TAMBURLAINE.  FOR SHE IS DEAD! thy words do pierce my soul:
     Ah, sweet Theridamas, say so no more!
     Though she be dead, yet let me think she lives,
     And feed my mind that dies for want of her.
     Where'er her soul be, thou [To the body] shalt stay with me,
     Embalm'd with cassia, ambergris, and myrrh,
     Not lapt in lead, but in a sheet of gold,
     And, till I die, thou shalt not be interr'd.
     Then in as rich a tomb as Mausolus' [93]
     We both will rest, and have one [94] epitaph
     Writ in as many several languages
     As I have conquer'd kingdoms with my sword.
     This cursed town will I consume with fire,
     Because this place bereft me of my love;
     The houses, burnt, will look as if they mourn'd;
     And here will I set up her stature, [95]
     And march about it with my mourning camp,
     Drooping and pining for Zenocrate.
          [The arras is drawn.]

ACT III.

SCENE I.

          Enter the KINGS OF TREBIZON and SORIA, [96] one bringing a
          sword and the other a sceptre; next, ORCANES king of
          Natolia, and the KING OF JERUSALEM with the imperial crown,
          after, CALLAPINE; and, after him, other LORDS and ALMEDA.
          ORCANES and the KING OF JERUSALEM crown CALLAPINE, and the
          others give him the sceptre.

     ORCANES.  Callapinus Cyricelibes, otherwise Cybelius, son and
     successive heir to the late mighty emperor Bajazeth, by the aid
     of God and his friend Mahomet, Emperor of Natolia, Jerusalem,
     Trebizon, Soria, Amasia, Thracia, Ilyria, Carmania, and all the
     hundred and thirty kingdoms late contributory to his mighty
     father,--long live Callapinus, Emperor of Turkey!

     CALLAPINE.  Thrice-worthy kings, of Natolia and the rest,
     I will requite your royal gratitudes
     With all the benefits my empire yields;
     And, were the sinews of th' imperial seat
     So knit and strengthen'd as when Bajazeth,
     My royal lord and father, fill'd the throne,
     Whose cursed fate [97] hath so dismember'd it,
     Then should you see this thief of Scythia,
     This proud usurping king of Persia,
     Do us such honour and supremacy,
     Bearing the vengeance of our father's wrongs,
     As all the world should blot his [98] dignities
     Out of the book of base-born infamies.
     And now I doubt not but your royal cares
     Have so provided for this cursed foe,
     That, since the heir of mighty Bajazeth
     (An emperor so honour'd for his virtues)
     Revives the spirits of all [99] true Turkish hearts,
     In grievous memory of his father's shame,
     We shall not need to nourish any doubt,
     But that proud Fortune, who hath follow'd long
     The martial sword of mighty Tamburlaine,
     Will now retain her old inconstancy,
     And raise our honours [100] to as high a pitch,
     In this our strong and fortunate encounter;
     For so hath heaven provided my escape
     ]From all the cruelty my soul sustain'd,
     By this my friendly keeper's happy means,
     That Jove, surcharg'd with pity of our wrongs,
     Will pour it down in showers on our heads,
     Scourging the pride of cursed Tamburlaine.

     ORCANES.  I have a hundred thousand men in arms;
     Some that, in conquest [101] of the perjur'd Christian,
     Being a handful to a mighty host,
     Think them in number yet sufficient
     To drink the river Nile or Euphrates,
     And for their power enow to win the world.

     KING OF JERUSALEM.  And I as many from Jerusalem,
     Judaea, [102] Gaza, and Sclavonia's [103] bounds,
     That on mount Sinai, with their ensigns spread,
     Look like the parti-colour'd clouds of heaven
     That shew fair weather to the neighbour morn.

     KING OF TREBIZON.  And I as many bring from Trebizon,
     Chio, Famastro, and Amasia,
     All bordering on the Mare-Major-sea,
     Riso, Sancina, and the bordering towns
     That touch the end of famous Euphrates,
     Whose courages are kindled with the flames
     The cursed Scythian sets on all their towns,
     And vow to burn the villain's cruel heart.

     KING OF SORIA.  From Soria [104] with seventy thousand strong,
     Ta'en from Aleppo, Soldino, Tripoly,
     And so unto my city of Damascus, [105]
     I march to meet and aid my neighbour kings;
     All which will join against this Tamburlaine,
     And bring him captive to your highness' feet.

     ORCANES.  Our battle, then, in martial manner pitch'd,
     According to our ancient use, shall bear
     The figure of the semicircled moon,
     Whose horns shell sprinkle through the tainted air
     The poison'd brains of this proud Scythian.

     CALLAPINE.  Well, then, my noble lords, for this my friend
     That freed me from the bondage of my foe,
     I think it requisite and honourable
     To keep my promise and to make him king,
     That is a gentleman, I know, at least.

     ALMEDA.  That's no matter, [106] sir, for being a king;
     or Tamburlaine came up of nothing.

     KING OF JERUSALEM.  Your majesty may choose some 'pointed time,
     Performing all your promise to the full;
     'Tis naught for your majesty to give a kingdom.

     CALLAPINE.  Then will I shortly keep my promise, Almeda.

     ALMEDA.  Why, I thank your majesty.
          [Exeunt.]

SCENE II.

          Enter TAMBURLAINE and his three sons, CALYPHAS, AMYRAS, and
          CELEBINUS; USUMCASANE; four ATTENDANTS bearing the hearse of
          ZENOCRATE, and the drums sounding a doleful march; the town
          burning.

     TAMBURLAINE.  So burn the turrets of this cursed town,
     Flame to the highest region of the air,
     And kindle heaps of exhalations,
     That, being fiery meteors, may presage
     Death and destruction to the inhabitants!
     Over my zenith hang a blazing star,
     That may endure till heaven be dissolv'd,
     Fed with the fresh supply of earthly dregs,
     Threatening a dearth [107] and famine to this land!
     Flying dragons, lightning, fearful thunder-claps,
     Singe these fair plains, and make them seem as black
     As is the island where the Furies mask,
     Compass'd with Lethe, Styx, and Phlegethon,
     Because my dear Zenocrate is dead!

     CALYPHAS.  This pillar, plac'd in memory of her,
     Where in Arabian, Hebrew, Greek, is writ,
     THIS TOWN, BEING BURNT BY TAMBURLAINE THE GREAT,
     FORBIDS THE WORLD TO BUILD IT UP AGAIN.

     AMYRAS.  And here this mournful streamer shall be plac'd,
     Wrought with the Persian and th' [108] Egyptian arms,
     To signify she was a princess born,
     And wife unto the monarch of the East.

     CELEBINUS.  And here this table as a register
     Of all her virtues and perfections.

     TAMBURLAINE.  And here the picture of Zenocrate,
     To shew her beauty which the world admir'd;
     Sweet picture of divine Zenocrate,
     That, hanging here, will draw the gods from heaven,
     And cause the stars fix'd in the southern arc,
     (Whose lovely faces never any view'd
     That have not pass'd the centre's latitude,)
     As pilgrims travel to our hemisphere,
     Only to gaze upon Zenocrate.
     Thou shalt not beautify Larissa-plains,
     But keep within the circle of mine arms:
     At every town and castle I besiege,
     Thou shalt be set upon my royal tent;
     And, when I meet an army in the field,
     Those [109] looks will shed such influence in my camp,
     As if Bellona, goddess of the war,
     Threw naked swords and sulphur-balls of fire
     Upon the heads of all our enemies.--
     And now, my lords, advance your spears again;
     Sorrow no more, my sweet Casane, now:
     Boys, leave to mourn; this town shall ever mourn,
     Being burnt to cinders for your mother's death.

     CALYPHAS.  If I had wept a sea of tears for her,
     would not ease the sorrows [110] I sustain.

     AMYRAS.  As is that town, so is my heart consum'd
     With grief and sorrow for my mother's death.

     CELEBINUS.  My mother's death hath mortified my mind,
     And sorrow stops the passage of my speech.

     TAMBURLAINE.  But now, my boys, leave off, and list to me,
     That mean to teach you rudiments of war.
     I'll have you learn to sleep upon the ground,
     March in your armour thorough watery fens,
     Sustain the scorching heat and freezing cold,
     Hunger and thirst, [111] right adjuncts of the war;
     And, after this, to scale a castle-wall,
     Besiege a fort, to undermine a town,
     And make whole cities caper in the air:
     Then next, the way to fortify your men;
     In champion [112] grounds what figure serves you best,
     For which [113] the quinque-angle form is meet,
     Because the corners there may fall more flat
     Whereas [114] the fort may fittest be assail'd,
     And sharpest where th' assault is desperate:
     The ditches must be deep; the [115] counterscarps
     Narrow and steep; the walls made high and broad;
     The bulwarks and the rampires large and strong,
     With cavalieros [116] and thick counterforts,
     And room within to lodge six thousand men;
     It must have privy ditches, countermines,
     And secret issuings to defend the ditch;
     It must have high argins [117] and cover'd ways
     To keep the bulwark-fronts from battery,
     And parapets to hide the musketeers,
     Casemates to place the great [118] artillery,
     And store of ordnance, that from every flank
     May scour the outward curtains of the fort,
     Dismount the cannon of the adverse part,
     Murder the foe, and save the [119] walls from breach.
     When this is learn'd for service on the land,
     By plain and easy demonstration
     I'll teach you how to make the water mount,
     That you may dry-foot march through lakes and pools,
     Deep rivers, havens, creeks, and little seas,
     And make a fortress in the raging waves,
     Fenc'd with the concave of a monstrous rock,
     Invincible by nature [120] of the place.
     When this is done, then are ye soldiers,
     And worthy sons of Tamburlaine the Great.

     CALYPHAS.  My lord, but this is dangerous to be done;
     We may be slain or wounded ere we learn.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Villain, art thou the son of Tamburlaine,
     And fear'st to die, or with a [121] curtle-axe
     To hew thy flesh, and make a gaping wound?
     Hast thou beheld a peal of ordnance strike
     A ring of pikes, mingled with shot and horse, [122]
     Whose shatter'd limbs, being toss'd as high as heaven,
     Hang in the air as thick as sunny motes,
     And canst thou, coward, stand in fear of death?
     Hast thou not seen my horsemen charge the foe,
     Shot through the arms, cut overthwart the hands,
     Dying their lances with their streaming blood,
     And yet at night carouse within my tent,
     Filling their empty veins with airy wine,
     That, being concocted, turns to crimson blood,
     And wilt thou shun the field for fear of wounds?
     View me, thy father, that hath conquer'd kings,
     And, with his [123] host, march'd [124] round about the earth,
     Quite void of scars and clear from any wound,
     That by the wars lost not a drop [125] of blood,
     And see him lance [126] his flesh to teach you all.
          [He cuts his arm.]
     A wound is nothing, be it ne'er so deep;
     Blood is the god of war's rich livery.
     Now look I like a soldier, and this wound
     As great a grace and majesty to me,
     As if a chair of gold enamelled,
     Enchas'd with diamonds, sapphires, rubies,
     And fairest pearl of wealthy India,
     Were mounted here under a canopy,
     And I sat down, cloth'd with a massy robe
     That late adorn'd the Afric potentate,
     Whom I brought bound unto Damascus' walls.
     Come, boys, and with your fingers search my wound,
     And in my blood wash all your hands at once,
     While I sit smiling to behold the sight.
     Now, my boys, what think ye of a wound?

     CALYPHAS.  I know not [127] what I should think of it;
     methinks 'tis a pitiful sight.

     CELEBINUS.  'Tis [128] nothing.--Give me a wound, father.

     AMYRAS.  And me another, my lord.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Come, sirrah, give me your arm.

     CELEBINUS.  Here, father, cut it bravely, as you did your own.

     TAMBURLAINE.  It shall suffice thou dar'st abide a wound;
     My boy, thou shalt not lose a drop of blood
     Before we meet the army of the Turk;
     But then run desperate through the thickest throngs,
     Dreadless of blows, of bloody wounds, and death;
     And let the burning of Larissa-walls,
     My speech of war, and this my wound you see,
     Teach you, my boys, to bear courageous minds,
     Fit for the followers of great Tamburlaine.--
     Usumcasane, now come, let us march
     Towards Techelles and Theridamas,
     That we have sent before to fire the towns,
     The towers and cities of these hateful Turks,
     And hunt that coward faint-heart runaway,
     With that accursed [129] traitor Almeda,
     Till fire and sword have found them at a bay.

     USUMCASANE.  I long to pierce his [130] bowels with my sword,
     That hath betray'd my gracious sovereign,--
     That curs'd and damned traitor Almeda.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Then let us see if coward Callapine
     Dare levy arms against our puissance,
     That we may tread upon his captive neck,
     And treble all his father's slaveries.
          [Exeunt.]

SCENE III.

          Enter TECHELLES, THERIDAMAS, and their train.

     THERIDAMAS.  Thus have we march'd northward from Tamburlaine,
     Unto the frontier point [131] of Soria; [132]
     And this is Balsera, their chiefest hold,
     Wherein is all the treasure of the land.

     TECHELLES.  Then let us bring our light artillery,
     Minions, falc'nets, and sakers, [133] to the trench,
     Filling the ditches with the walls' wide breach,
     And enter in to seize upon the hold.-- [134]
     How say you, soldiers, shall we not?

     SOLDIERS.  Yes, my lord, yes; come, let's about it.

     THERIDAMAS.  But stay a while; summon a parle, drum.
     It may be they will yield it quietly, [135]
     Knowing two kings, the friends [136] to Tamburlaine,
     Stand at the walls with such a mighty power.
          [A parley sounded.--CAPTAIN appears on the walls,
           with OLYMPIA his wife, and his SON.]

     CAPTAIN.  What require you, my masters?

     THERIDAMAS.  Captain, that thou yield up thy hold to us.

     CAPTAIN.  To you! why, do you [137] think me weary of it?

     TECHELLES.  Nay, captain, thou art weary of thy life,
     If thou withstand the friends of Tamburlaine.

     THERIDAMAS.  These pioners [138] of Argier in Africa,
     Even in [139] the cannon's face, shall raise a hill
     Of earth and faggots higher than thy fort,
     And, over thy argins [140] and cover'd ways,
     Shall play upon the bulwarks of thy hold
     Volleys of ordnance, till the breach be made
     That with his ruin fills up all the trench;
     And, when we enter in, not heaven itself
     Shall ransom thee, thy wife, and family.

     TECHELLES.  Captain, these Moors shall cut the leaden pipes
     That bring fresh water to thy men and thee,
     And lie in trench before thy castle-walls,
     That no supply of victual shall come in,
     Nor [any] issue forth but they shall die;
     And, therefore, captain, yield it quietly. [141]

     CAPTAIN.  Were you, that are the friends of Tamburlaine, [142]
     Brothers of [143] holy Mahomet himself,
     I would not yield it; therefore do your worst:
     Raise mounts, batter, intrench, and undermine,
     Cut off the water, all convoys that can, [144]
     Yet I am [145] resolute:  and so, farewell.
          [CAPTAIN, OLYMPIA, and SON, retire from the walls.]

     THERIDAMAS.  Pioners, away! and where I stuck the stake,
     Intrench with those dimensions I prescrib'd;
     Cast up the earth towards the castle-wall,
     Which, till it may defend you, labour low,
     And few or none shall perish by their shot.

     PIONERS.  We will, my lord.
          [Exeunt PIONERS.]

     TECHELLES.  A hundred horse shall scout about the plains,
     To spy what force comes to relieve the hold.
     Both we, Theridamas, will intrench our men,
     And with the Jacob's staff measure the height
     And distance of the castle from the trench,
     That we may know if our artillery
     Will carry full point-blank unto their walls.

     THERIDAMAS.  Then see the bringing of our ordnance
     Along the trench into [146] the battery,
     Where we will have gallions of six foot broad,
     To save our cannoneers from musket-shot;
     Betwixt which shall our ordnance thunder forth,
     And with the breach's fall, smoke, fire, and dust,
     The crack, the echo, and the soldiers' cry,
     Make deaf the air and dim the crystal sky.

     TECHELLES.  Trumpets and drums, alarum presently!
     And, soldiers, play the men; the hold [147] is yours!
          [Exeunt.]

SCENE IV.

          Alarms within.  Enter the CAPTAIN, with OLYMPIA, and his
          SON.

     OLYMPIA.  Come, good my lord, and let us haste from hence,
     Along the cave that leads beyond the foe:
     No hope is left to save this conquer'd hold.

     CAPTAIN.  A deadly bullet, gliding through my side,
     Lies heavy on my heart; I cannot live:
     I feel my liver pierc'd, and all my veins,
     That there begin and nourish every part,
     Mangled and torn, and all my entrails bath'd
     In blood that straineth [148] from their orifex.
     Farewell, sweet wife! sweet son, farewell! I die.
          [Dies.]

     OLYMPIA.  Death, whither art thou gone, that both we live?
     Come back again, sweet Death, and strike us both!
     One minute and our days, and one sepulchre
     Contain our bodies!  Death, why com'st thou not
     Well, this must be the messenger for thee:
          [Drawing a dagger.]
     Now, ugly Death, stretch out thy sable wings,
     And carry both our souls where his remains.--
     Tell me, sweet boy, art thou content to die?
     These barbarous Scythians, full of cruelty,
     And Moors, in whom was never pity found,
     Will hew us piecemeal, put us to the wheel,
     Or else invent some torture worse than that;
     Therefore die by thy loving mother's hand,
     Who gently now will lance thy ivory throat,
     And quickly rid thee both of pain and life.

     SON.  Mother, despatch me, or I'll kill myself;
     For think you I can live and see him dead?
     Give me your knife, good mother, or strike home: [149]
     The Scythians shall not tyrannize on me:
     Sweet mother, strike, that I may meet my father.
          [She stabs him, and he dies.]

     OLYMPIA.  Ah, sacred Mahomet, if this be sin,
     Entreat a pardon of the God of heaven,
     And purge my soul before it come to thee!
          [She burns the bodies of her HUSBAND and SON,
           and then attempts to kill herself.]

          Enter THERIDAMAS, TECHELLES, and all their train.

     THERIDAMAS.  How now, madam! what are you doing?

     OLYMPIA.  Killing myself, as I have done my son,
     Whose body, with his father's, I have burnt,
     Lest cruel Scythians should dismember him.

     TECHELLES.  'Twas bravely done, and like a soldier's wife.
     Thou shalt with us to Tamburlaine the Great,
     Who, when he hears how resolute thou wert, [150]
     Will match thee with a viceroy or a king.

     OLYMPIA.  My lord deceas'd was dearer unto me
     Than any viceroy, king, or emperor;
     And for his sake here will I end my days.

     THERIDAMAS.  But, lady, go with us to Tamburlaine,
     And thou shalt see a man greater than Mahomet,
     In whose high looks is much more majesty,
     Than from the concave superficies
     Of Jove's vast palace, the empyreal orb,
     Unto the shining bower where Cynthia sits,
     Like lovely Thetis, in a crystal robe;
     That treadeth Fortune underneath his feet,
     And makes the mighty god of arms his slave;
     On whom Death and the Fatal Sisters wait
     With naked swords and scarlet liveries;
     Before whom, mounted on a lion's back,
     Rhamnusia bears a helmet full of blood,
     And strows the way with brains of slaughter'd men;
     By whose proud side the ugly Furies run,
     Hearkening when he shall bid them plague the world;
     Over whose zenith, cloth'd in windy air,
     And eagle's wings join'd [151] to her feather'd breast,
     Fame hovereth, sounding of [152] her golden trump,
     That to the adverse poles of that straight line
     Which measureth the glorious frame of heaven
     The name of mighty Tamburlaine is spread;
     And him, fair lady, shall thy eyes behold.
     Come.

     OLYMPIA.  Take pity of a lady's ruthful tears,
     That humbly craves upon her knees to stay,
     And cast her body in the burning flame
     That feeds upon her son's and husband's flesh.

     TECHELLES.  Madam, sooner shall fire consume us both
     Than scorch a face so beautiful as this,
     In frame of which Nature hath shew'd more skill
     Than when she gave eternal chaos form,
     Drawing from it the shining lamps of heaven.

     THERIDAMAS.  Madam, I am so far in love with you,
     That you must go with us:  no remedy.

     OLYMPIA.  Then carry me, I care not, where you will,
     And let the end of this my fatal journey
     Be likewise end to my accursed life.

     TECHELLES.  No, madam, but the [153] beginning of your joy:
     Come willingly therefore.

     THERIDAMAS.  Soldiers, now let us meet the general,
     Who by this time is at Natolia,
     Ready to charge the army of the Turk.
     The gold and [154] silver, and the pearl, ye got,
     Rifling this fort, divide in equal shares:
     This lady shall have twice so much again
     Out of the coffers of our treasury.
          [Exeunt.]

SCENE V.

          Enter CALLAPINE, ORCANES, the KINGS OF JERUSALEM, TREBIZON,
          and SORIA, with their train, ALMEDA, and a MESSENGER.

     MESSENGER.  Renowmed [155] emperor, mighty [156] Callapine,
     God's great lieutenant over all the world,
     Here at Aleppo, with an host of men,
     Lies Tamburlaine, this king of Persia,
     (In number more than are the [157] quivering leaves
     Of Ida's forest, where your highness' hounds
     With open cry pursue the wounded stag,)
     Who means to girt Natolia's walls with siege,
     Fire the town, and over-run the land.

     CALLAPINE.  My royal army is as great as his,
     That, from the bounds of Phrygia to the sea
     Which washeth Cyprus with his brinish waves,
     Covers the hills, the valleys, and the plains.
     Viceroys and peers of Turkey, play the men;
     Whet all your [158] swords to mangle Tamburlaine,
     His sons, his captains, and his followers:
     By Mahomet, not one of them shall live!
     The field wherein this battle shall be fought
     For ever term'd [159] the Persians' sepulchre,
     In memory of this our victory.

     ORCANES.  Now he that calls himself the [160] scourge of Jove,
     The emperor of the world, and earthly god,
     Shall end the warlike progress he intends,
     And travel headlong to the lake of hell,
     Where legions of devils (knowing he must die
     Here in Natolia by your [161] highness' hands),
     All brandishing their [162] brands of quenchless fire,
     Stretching their monstrous paws, grin with [163] their teeth,
     And guard the gates to entertain his soul.

     CALLAPINE.  Tell me, viceroys, the number of your men,
     And what our army royal is esteem'd.

     KING OF JERUSALEM.  From Palestina and Jerusalem,
     Of Hebrews three score thousand fighting men
     Are come, since last we shew'd your [164] majesty.

     ORCANES.  So from Arabia Desert, and the bounds
     Of that sweet land whose brave metropolis
     Re-edified the fair Semiramis,
     Came forty thousand warlike foot and horse,
     Since last we number'd to your majesty.

     KING OF TREBIZON.  From Trebizon in Asia the Less,
     Naturaliz'd Turks and stout Bithynians
     Came to my bands, full fifty thousand more,
     (That, fighting, know not what retreat doth mean,
     Nor e'er return but with the victory,)
     Since last we number'd to your majesty.

     KING OF SORIA.  Of Sorians [165] from Halla is repair'd, [166]
     And neighbour cities of your highness' land, [167]
     Ten thousand horse, and thirty thousand foot,
     Since last we number'd to your majesty;
     So that the army royal is esteem'd
     Six hundred thousand valiant fighting men.

     CALLAPINE.  Then welcome, Tamburlaine, unto thy death!--
     Come, puissant viceroys, let us to the field
     (The Persians' sepulchre), and sacrifice
     Mountains of breathless men to Mahomet,
     Who now, with Jove, opens the firmament
     To see the slaughter of our enemies.

          Enter TAMBURLAINE with his three SONS, CALYPHAS, AMYRAS,
          and CELEBINUS; USUMCASANE, and others.

     TAMBURLAINE.  How now, Casane! see, a knot of kings,
     Sitting as if they were a-telling riddles!

     USUMCASANE.  My lord, your presence makes them pale and wan:
     Poor souls, they look as if their deaths were near.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Why, so he [168] is, Casane; I am here:
     But yet I'll save their lives, and make them slaves.--
     Ye petty kings of Turkey, I am come,
     As Hector did into the Grecian camp,
     To overdare the pride of Graecia,
     And set his warlike person to the view
     Of fierce Achilles, rival of his fame:
     I do you honour in the simile;
     For, if I should, as Hector did Achilles,
     (The worthiest knight that ever brandish'd sword,)
     Challenge in combat any of you all,
     I see how fearfully ye would refuse,
     And fly my glove as from a scorpion.

     ORCANES.  Now, thou art fearful of thy army's strength,
     Thou wouldst with overmatch of person fight:
     But, shepherd's issue, base-born Tamburlaine,
     Think of thy end; this sword shall lance thy throat.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Villain, the shepherd's issue (at whose birth
     Heaven did afford a gracious aspect,
     And join'd those stars that shall be opposite
     Even till the dissolution of the world,
     And never meant to make a conqueror
     So famous as is [169] mighty Tamburlaine)
     Shall so torment thee, and that Callapine,
     That, like a roguish runaway, suborn'd
     That villain there, that slave, that Turkish dog,
     To false his service to his sovereign,
     As ye shall curse the birth of Tamburlaine.

     CALLAPINE.  Rail not, proud Scythian:  I shall now revenge
     My father's vile abuses and mine own.

     KING OF JERUSALEM.  By Mahomet, he shall be tied in chains,
     Rowing with Christians in a brigandine
     About the Grecian isles to rob and spoil,
     And turn him to his ancient trade again:
     Methinks the slave should make a lusty thief.

     CALLAPINE.  Nay, when the battle ends, all we will meet,
     And sit in council to invent some pain
     That most may vex his body and his soul.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Sirrah Callapine, I'll hang a clog about
     your neck for running away again:  you shall not
     trouble me thus to come and fetch you.--
     But as for you, viceroy[s], you shall have bits,
     And, harness'd [170] like my horses, draw my coach;
     And, when ye stay, be lash'd with whips of wire:
     I'll have you learn to feed on [171] provender,
     And in a stable lie upon the planks.

     ORCANES.  But, Tamburlaine, first thou shalt [172] kneel to us,
     And humbly crave a pardon for thy life.

     KING OF TREBIZON.  The common soldiers of our mighty host
     Shall bring thee bound unto the [173] general's tent [.]

     KING OF SORIA.  And all have jointly sworn thy cruel death,
     Or bind thee in eternal torments' wrath.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Well, sirs, diet yourselves; you know I
     shall have occasion shortly to journey you.

     CELEBINUS.  See, father, how Almeda the jailor looks upon us!

     TAMBURLAINE.  Villain, traitor, damned fugitive,
     I'll make thee wish the earth had swallow'd thee!
     See'st thou not death within my wrathful looks?
     Go, villain, cast thee headlong from a rock,
     Or rip thy bowels, and rent [174] out thy heart,
     T' appease my wrath; or else I'll torture thee,
     Searing thy hateful flesh with burning irons
     And drops of scalding lead, while all thy joints
     Be rack'd and beat asunder with the wheel;
     For, if thou liv'st, not any element
     Shall shroud thee from the wrath of Tamburlaine.

     CALLAPINE.  Well, in despite of thee, he shall be king.--
     Come, Almeda; receive this crown of me:
     I here invest thee king of Ariadan,
     Bordering on Mare Roso, near to Mecca.

     ORCANES.  What! take it, man.

     ALMEDA.  [to Tamb.] Good my lord, let me take it.

     CALLAPINE.  Dost thou ask him leave? here; take it.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Go to, sirrah! [175] take your crown, and make up
     the half dozen.  So, sirrah, now you are a king, you must give
     arms. [176]

     ORCANES.  So he shall, and wear thy head in his scutcheon.

     TAMBURLAINE.  No; [177] let him hang a bunch of keys on his
     standard, to put him in remembrance he was a jailor, that,
     when I take him, I may knock out his brains with them,
     and lock you in the stable, when you shall come sweating
     from my chariot.

     KING OF TREBIZON.  Away! let us to the field, that the villain
     may be slain.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Sirrah, prepare whips, and bring my chariot
     to my tent; for, as soon as the battle is done, I'll ride
     in triumph through the camp.
          Enter THERIDAMAS, TECHELLES, and their train.
     How now, ye petty kings? lo, here are bugs [178]
     Will make the hair stand upright on your heads,
     And cast your crowns in slavery at their feet!--
     Welcome, Theridamas and Techelles, both:
     See ye this rout, [179] and know ye this same king?

     THERIDAMAS.  Ay, my lord; he was Callapine's keeper.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Well, now ye see he is a king.  Look to him,
     Theridamas, when we are fighting, lest he hide his crown
     as the foolish king of Persia did. [180]

     KING OF SORIA.  No, Tamburlaine; he shall not be put
     to that exigent, I warrant thee.

     TAMBURLAINE.  You know not, sir.--
     But now, my followers and my loving friends,
     Fight as you ever did, like conquerors,
     The glory of this happy day is yours.
     My stern aspect [181] shall make fair Victory,
     Hovering betwixt our armies, light on me,
     Loaden with laurel-wreaths to crown us all.

     TECHELLES.  I smile to think how, when this field is fought
     And rich Natolia ours, our men shall sweat
     With carrying pearl and treasure on their backs.

     TAMBURLAINE.  You shall be princes all, immediately.--
     Come, fight, ye Turks, or yield us victory.

     ORCANES.  No; we will meet thee, slavish Tamburlaine.
          [Exeunt severally.]

ACT IV.

SCENE I.

          Alarms within.  AMYRAS and CELEBINUS issue from the tent
          where CALYPHAS sits asleep. [182]

     AMYRAS.  Now in their glories shine the golden crowns
     Of these proud Turks, much like so many suns
     That half dismay the majesty of heaven.
     Now, brother, follow we our father's sword,
     That flies with fury swifter than our thoughts,
     And cuts down armies with his conquering wings.

     CELEBINUS.  Call forth our lazy brother from the tent,
     For, if my father miss him in the field,
     Wrath, kindled in the furnace of his breast,
     Will send a deadly lightning to his heart.

     AMYRAS.  Brother, ho! what, given so much to sleep,
     You cannot [183] leave it, when our enemies' drums
     And rattling cannons thunder in our ears
     Our proper ruin and our father's foil?

     CALYPHAS.  Away, ye fools! my father needs not me,
     Nor you, in faith, but that you will be thought
     More childish-valourous than manly-wise.
     If half our camp should sit and sleep with me,
     My father were enough to scare [184] the foe:
     You do dishonour to his majesty,
     To think our helps will do him any good.

     AMYRAS.  What, dar'st thou, then, be absent from the fight,
     Knowing my father hates thy cowardice,
     And oft hath warn'd thee to be still in field,
     When he himself amidst the thickest troops
     Beats down our foes, to flesh our taintless swords?

     CALYPHAS.  I know, sir, what it is to kill a man;
     It works remorse of conscience in me.
     I take no pleasure to be murderous,
     Nor care for blood when wine will quench my thirst.

     CELEBINUS.  O cowardly boy! fie, for shame, come forth!
     Thou dost dishonour manhood and thy house.

     CALYPHAS.  Go, go, tall [185] stripling, fight you for us both,
     And take my other toward brother here,
     For person like to prove a second Mars.
     'Twill please my mind as well to hear, both you [186]
     Have won a heap of honour in the field,
     And left your slender carcasses behind,
     As if I lay with you for company.

     AMYRAS.  You will not go, then?

     CALYPHAS.  You say true.

     AMYRAS.  Were all the lofty mounts of Zona Mundi
     That fill the midst of farthest Tartary
     Turn'd into pearl and proffer'd for my stay,
     I would not bide the fury of my father,
     When, made a victor in these haughty arms,
     He comes and finds his sons have had no shares
     In all the honours he propos'd for us.

     CALYPHAS.  Take you the honour, I will take my ease;
     My wisdom shall excuse my cowardice:
     I go into the field before I need!
          [Alarms within.  AMYRAS and CELEBINUS run out.]
     The bullets fly at random where they list;
     And, should I [187] go, and kill a thousand men,
     I were as soon rewarded with a shot,
     And sooner far than he that never fights;
     And, should I go, and do no harm nor good,
     I might have harm, which all the good I have,
     Join'd with my father's crown, would never cure.
     I'll to cards.--Perdicas!

          Enter PERDICAS.

     PERDICAS.  Here, my lord.

     CALYPHAS.
     Come, thou and I will go to cards to drive away the time.

     PERDICAS.  Content, my lord:  but what shall we play for?

     CALYPHAS.  Who shall kiss the fairest of the Turks' concubines
     first, when my father hath conquered them.

     PERDICAS.  Agreed, i'faith.
          [They play.]

     CALYPHAS.  They say I am a coward, Perdicas, and I fear
     as little their taratantaras, their swords, or their cannons
     as I do a naked lady in a net of gold, and, for fear I should be
     afraid, would put it off and come to bed with me.

     PERDICAS.  Such a fear, my lord, would never make ye retire.

     CALYPHAS.  I would my father would let me be put in the front
     of such a battle once, to try my valour!  [Alarms within.]
     What a coil they keep!  I believe there will be some hurt done
     anon amongst them.

          Enter TAMBURLAINE, THERIDAMAS, TECHELLES, USUMCASANE;
          AMYRAS and CELEBINUS leading in ORCANES, and the KINGS
          OF JERUSALEM, TREBIZON, and SORIA; and SOLDIERS.

     TAMBURLAINE.
     See now, ye [188] slaves, my children stoop your pride, [189]
     And lead your bodies [190] sheep-like to the sword!--
     Bring them, my boys, and tell me if the wars
     Be not a life that may illustrate gods,
     And tickle not your spirits with desire
     Still to be train'd in arms and chivalry?

     AMYRAS.  Shall we let go these kings again, my lord,
     To gather greater numbers 'gainst our power,
     That they may say, it is not chance doth this,
     But matchless strength and magnanimity?

     TAMBURLAINE.  No, no, Amyras; tempt not Fortune so:
     Cherish thy valour still with fresh supplies,
     And glut it not with stale and daunted foes.
     But where's this coward villain, not my son,
     But traitor to my name and majesty?
          [He goes in and brings CALYPHAS out.]
     Image of sloth, and picture of a slave,
     The obloquy and scorn of my renown!
     How may my heart, thus fired with mine [191] eyes,
     Wounded with shame and kill'd with discontent,
     Shroud any thought may [192] hold my striving hands
     ]From martial justice on thy wretched soul?

     THERIDAMAS.  Yet pardon him, I pray your majesty.

     TECHELLES and USUMCASANE.
     Let all of us entreat your highness' pardon.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Stand up, [193] ye base, unworthy soldiers!
     Know ye not yet the argument of arms?

     AMYRAS.  Good my lord, let him be forgiven for once, [194]
     And we will force him to the field hereafter.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Stand up, my boys, and I will teach ye arms,
     And what the jealousy of wars must do.--
     O Samarcanda, where I breathed first,
     And joy'd the fire of this martial [195] flesh,
     Blush, blush, fair city, at thine [196] honour's foil,
     And shame of nature, which [197] Jaertis' [198] stream,
     Embracing thee with deepest of his love,
     Can never wash from thy distained brows!--
     Here, Jove, receive his fainting soul again;
     A form not meet to give that subject essence
     Whose matter is the flesh of Tamburlaine,
     Wherein an incorporeal [199] spirit moves,
     Made of the mould whereof thyself consists,
     Which makes me valiant, proud, ambitious,
     Ready to levy power against thy throne,
     That I might move the turning spheres of heaven;
     For earth and all this airy region
     Cannot contain the state of Tamburlaine.
          [Stabs CALYPHAS.]
     By Mahomet, thy mighty friend, I swear,
     In sending to my issue such a soul,
     Created of the massy dregs of earth,
     The scum and tartar of the elements,
     Wherein was neither courage, strength, or wit,
     But folly, sloth, and damned idleness,
     Thou hast procur'd a greater enemy
     Than he that darted mountains at thy head,
     Shaking the burden mighty Atlas bears,
     Whereat thou trembling hidd'st thee in the air,
     Cloth'd with a pitchy cloud for being seen.-- [200]
     And now, ye canker'd curs of Asia,
     That will not see the strength of Tamburlaine,
     Although it shine as brightly as the sun,
     Now you shall [201] feel the strength of Tamburlaine,
     And, by the state of his supremacy,
     Approve [202] the difference 'twixt himself and you.

     ORCANES.  Thou shew'st the difference 'twixt ourselves and thee,
     In this thy barbarous damned tyranny.

     KING OF JERUSALEM.  Thy victories are grown so violent,
     That shortly heaven, fill'd with the meteors
     Of blood and fire thy tyrannies have made,
     Will pour down blood and fire on thy head,
     Whose scalding drops will pierce thy seething brains,
     And, with our bloods, revenge our bloods [203] on thee.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Villains, these terrors, and these tyrannies
     (If tyrannies war's justice ye repute),
     I execute, enjoin'd me from above,
     To scourge the pride of such as Heaven abhors;
     Nor am I made arch-monarch of the world,
     Crown'd and invested by the hand of Jove,
     For deeds of bounty or nobility;
     But, since I exercise a greater name,
     The scourge of God and terror of the world,
     I must apply myself to fit those terms,
     In war, in blood, in death, in cruelty,
     And plague such peasants [204] as resist in [205] me
     The power of Heaven's eternal majesty.--
     Theridamas, Techelles, and Casane, [206]
     Ransack the tents and the pavilions
     Of these proud Turks, and take their concubines,
     Making them bury this effeminate brat;
     For not a common soldier shall defile
     His manly fingers with so faint a boy:
     Then bring those Turkish harlots to my tent,
     And I'll dispose them as it likes me best.--
     Meanwhile, take him in.

     SOLDIERS.  We will, my lord.
          [Exeunt with the body of CALYPHAS.]

     KING OF JERUSALEM.  O damned monster! nay, a fiend of hell,
     Whose cruelties are not so harsh as thine,
     Nor yet impos'd with such a bitter hate!

     ORCANES.  Revenge it, [207] Rhadamanth and Aeacus,
     And let your hates, extended in his pains,
     Excel [208] the hate wherewith he pains our souls!

     KING OF TREBIZON.  May never day give virtue to his eyes,
     Whose sight, compos'd of fury and of fire,
     Doth send such stern affections to his heart!

     KING OF SORIA.  May never spirit, vein, or artier, [209] feed
     The cursed substance of that cruel heart;
     But, wanting moisture and remorseful [210] blood,
     Dry up with anger, and consume with heat!

     TAMBURLAINE.  Well, bark, ye dogs:  I'll bridle all your tongues,
     And bind them close with bits of burnish'd steel,
     Down to the channels of your hateful throats;
     And, with the pains my rigour shall inflict,
     I'll make ye roar, that earth may echo forth
     The far-resounding torments ye sustain;
     As when an herd of lusty Cimbrian bulls
     Run mourning round about the females' miss, [211]
     And, stung with fury of their following,
     Fill all the air with troublous bellowing.
     I will, with engines never exercis'd,
     Conquer, sack, and utterly consume
     Your cities and your golden palaces,
     And, with the flames that beat against the clouds,
     Incense the heavens, and make the stars to melt,
     As if they were the tears of Mahomet
     For hot consumption of his country's pride;
     And, till by vision or by speech I hear
     Immortal Jove say "Cease, my Tamburlaine,"
     I will persist a terror to the world,
     Making the meteors (that, like armed men,
     Are seen to march upon the towers of heaven)
     Run tilting round about the firmament,
     And break their burning lances in the air,
     For honour of my wondrous victories.--
     Come, bring them in to our pavilion.
          [Exeunt.]

SCENE II.

          Enter OLYMPIA.

     OLYMPIA.  Distress'd Olympia, whose weeping eyes,
     Since thy arrival here, behold [212] no sun,
     But, clos'd within the compass of a [213] tent,
     Have [214] stain'd thy cheeks, and made thee look like death,
     Devise some means to rid thee of thy life,
     Rather than yield to his detested suit,
     Whose drift is only to dishonour thee;
     And, since this earth, dew'd with thy brinish tears,
     Affords no herbs whose taste may poison thee,
     Nor yet this air, beat often with thy sighs,
     Contagious smells and vapours to infect thee,
     Nor thy close cave a sword to murder thee,
     Let this invention be the instrument.

          Enter THERIDAMAS.

     THERIDAMAS.  Well met, Olympia:  I sought thee in my tent,
     But, when I saw the place obscure and dark,
     Which with thy beauty thou wast wont to light,
     Enrag'd, I ran about the fields for thee,
     Supposing amorous Jove had sent his son,
     The winged Hermes, to convey thee hence;
     But now I find thee, and that fear is past,
     Tell me, Olympia, wilt thou grant my suit?

     OLYMPIA.  My lord and husband's death, with my sweet son's,
     (With whom I buried all affections
     Save grief and sorrow, which torment my heart,)
     Forbids my mind to entertain a thought
     That tends to love, but meditate on death,
     A fitter subject for a pensive soul.

     THERIDAMAS.  Olympia, pity him in whom thy looks
     Have greater operation and more force
     Than Cynthia's in the watery wilderness;
     For with thy view my joys are at the full,
     And ebb again as thou depart'st from me.

     OLYMPIA.  Ah, pity me, my lord, and draw your sword,
     Making a passage for my troubled soul,
     Which beats against this prison to get out,
     And meet my husband and my loving son!

     THERIDAMAS.  Nothing but still thy husband and thy son?
     Leave this, my love, and listen more to me:
     Thou shalt be stately queen of fair Argier;
     And, cloth'd in costly cloth of massy gold,
     Upon the marble turrets of my court
     Sit like to Venus in her chair of state,
     Commanding all thy princely eye desires;
     And I will cast off arms to [215] sit with thee,
     Spending my life in sweet discourse of love.

     OLYMPIA.  No such discourse is pleasant in [216] mine ears,
     But that where every period ends with death,
     And every line begins with death again:
     I cannot love, to be an emperess.

     THERIDAMAS.  Nay, lady, then, if nothing will prevail,
     I'll use some other means to make you yield:
     Such is the sudden fury of my love,
     I must and will be pleas'd, and you shall yield:
     Come to the tent again.

     OLYMPIA.  Stay now, my lord; and, will you [217] save my honour,
     I'll give your grace a present of such price
     As all the world can not afford the like.

     THERIDAMAS.  What is it?

     OLYMPIA.  An ointment which a cunning alchymist
     Distilled from the purest balsamum
     And simplest extracts of all minerals,
     In which the essential form of marble stone,
     Temper'd by science metaphysical,
     And spells of magic from the mouths [218] of spirits,
     With which if you but 'noint your tender skin,
     Nor pistol, sword, nor lance, can pierce your flesh.

     THERIDAMAS.  Why, madam, think you to mock me thus palpably?

     OLYMPIA.  To prove it, I will 'noint my naked throat,
     Which when you stab, look on your weapon's point,
     And you shall see't rebated [219] with the blow.

     THERIDAMAS.  Why gave you not your husband some of it,
     If you lov'd him, and it so precious?

     OLYMPIA.  My purpose was, my lord, to spend it so,
     But was prevented by his sudden end;
     And for a present easy proof thereof, [220]
     That I dissemble not, try it on me.

     THERIDAMAS.  I will, Olympia, and will [221] keep it for
     The richest present of this eastern world.
          [She anoints her throat. [222]]

     OLYMPIA.  Now stab, my lord, and mark your weapon's point,
     That will be blunted if the blow be great.

     THERIDAMAS.  Here, then, Olympia.--
          [Stabs her.]
     What, have I slain her?  Villain, stab thyself!
     Cut off this arm that at murdered my [223] love,
     In whom the learned Rabbis of this age
     Might find as many wondrous miracles
     As in the theoria of the world!
     Now hell is fairer than Elysium; [224]
     A greater lamp than that bright eye of heaven,
     ]From whence the stars do borrow [225] all their light,
     Wanders about the black circumference;
     And now the damned souls are free from pain,
     For every Fury gazeth on her looks;
     Infernal Dis is courting of my love,
     Inventing masks and stately shows for her,
     Opening the doors of his rich treasury
     To entertain this queen of chastity;
     Whose body shall be tomb'd with all the pomp
     The treasure of my [226] kingdom may afford.
          [Exit with the body.]

SCENE III.

          Enter TAMBURLAINE, drawn in his chariot by the KINGS OF
          TREBIZON and SORIA, [227] with bits in their mouths,
          reins in his [228] left hand, and in his right hand a whip
          with which he scourgeth them; AMYRAS, CELEBINUS, TECHELLES,
          THERIDAMAS, USUMCASANE; ORCANES king of Natolia, and the
          KING OF JERUSALEM, led by five [229] or six common SOLDIERS;
          and other SOLDIERS.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Holla, ye pamper'd jades of Asia! [230]
     What, can ye draw but twenty miles a-day,
     And have so proud a chariot at your heels,
     And such a coachman as great Tamburlaine,
     But from Asphaltis, where I conquer'd you,
     To Byron here, where thus I honour you?
     The horse that guide the golden eye of heaven,
     And blow the morning from their nostrils, [231]
     Making their fiery gait above the clouds,
     Are not so honour'd in [232] their governor
     As you, ye slaves, in mighty Tamburlaine.
     The headstrong jades of Thrace Alcides tam'd,
     That King Aegeus fed with human flesh,
     And made so wanton that they knew their strengths,
     Were not subdu'd with valour more divine
     Than you by this unconquer'd arm of mine.
     To make you fierce, and fit my appetite,
     You shall be fed with flesh as raw as blood,
     And drink in pails the strongest muscadel:
     If you can live with it, then live, and draw
     My chariot swifter than the racking [233] clouds;
     If not, then die like beasts, and fit for naught
     But perches for the black and fatal ravens.
     Thus am I right the scourge of highest Jove;
     And see the figure of my dignity,
     By which I hold my name and majesty!

     AMYRAS.  Let me have coach, [234] my lord, that I may ride,
     And thus be drawn by [235] these two idle kings.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Thy youth forbids such ease, my kingly boy:
     They shall to-morrow draw my chariot,
     While these their fellow-kings may be refresh'd.

     ORCANES.  O thou that sway'st the region under earth,
     And art a king as absolute as Jove,
     Come as thou didst in fruitful Sicily,
     Surveying all the glories of the land,
     And as thou took'st the fair Proserpina,
     Joying the fruit of Ceres' garden-plot, [236]
     For love, for honour, and to make her queen,
     So, for just hate, for shame, and to subdue
     This proud contemner of thy dreadful power,
     Come once in fury, and survey his pride,
     Haling him headlong to the lowest hell!

     THERIDAMAS.  Your majesty must get some bits for these,
     To bridle their contemptuous cursing tongues,
     That, like unruly never-broken jades,
     Break through the hedges of their hateful mouths,
     And pass their fixed bounds exceedingly.

     TECHELLES.  Nay, we will break the hedges of their mouths,
     And pull their kicking colts [237] out of their pastures.

     USUMCASANE.  Your majesty already hath devis'd
     A mean, as fit as may be, to restrain
     These coltish coach-horse tongues from blasphemy.

     CELEBINUS.  How like you that, sir king? why speak you not?

     KING OF JERUSALEM.  Ah, cruel brat, sprung from a tyrant's loins!
     How like his cursed father he begins
     To practice taunts and bitter tyrannies!

     TAMBURLAINE.  Ay, Turk, I tell thee, this same [238] boy is he
     That must (advanc'd in higher pomp than this)
     Rifle the kingdoms I shall leave unsack'd,
     If Jove, esteeming me too good for earth,
     Raise me, to match [239] the fair Aldeboran,
     Above [240] the threefold astracism of heaven,
     Before I conquer all the triple world.--
     Now fetch me out the Turkish concubines:
     I will prefer them for the funeral
     They have bestow'd on my abortive son.
          [The CONCUBINES are brought in.]
     Where are my common soldiers now, that fought
     So lion-like upon Asphaltis' plains?

     SOLDIERS.  Here, my lord.

     TAMBURLAINE.
     Hold ye, tall [241] soldiers, take ye queens a-piece,--
     I mean such queens as were kings' concubines;
     Take them; divide them, and their [242] jewels too,
     And let them equally serve all your turns.

     SOLDIERS.  We thank your majesty.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Brawl not, I warn you, for your lechery;
     For every man that so offends shall die.

     ORCANES.  Injurious tyrant, wilt thou so defame
     The hateful fortunes of thy victory,
     To exercise upon such guiltless dames
     The violence of thy common soldiers' lust?

     TAMBURLAINE.
     Live continent, [243] then, ye slaves, and meet not me
     With troops of harlots at your slothful heels.

     CONCUBINES.  O, pity us, my lord, and save our honours!

     TAMBURLAINE.  Are ye not gone, ye villains, with your spoils?
          [The SOLDIERS run away with the CONCUBINES.]

     KING OF JERUSALEM.  O, merciless, infernal cruelty!

     TAMBURLAINE.  Save your honours! 'twere but time indeed,
     Lost long before ye knew what honour meant.

     THERIDAMAS.  It seems they meant to conquer us, my lord,
     And make us jesting pageants for their trulls.

     TAMBURLAINE.  And now themselves shall make our pageant,
     And common soldiers jest [244] with all their trulls.
     Let them take pleasure soundly in their spoils,
     Till we prepare our march to Babylon,
     Whither we next make expedition.

     TECHELLES.  Let us not be idle, then, my lord,
     But presently be prest [245] to conquer it.

     TAMBURLAINE.  We will, Techelles.--Forward, then, ye jades!
     Now crouch, ye kings of greatest Asia,
     And tremble, when ye hear this scourge will come
     That whips down cities and controlleth crowns,
     Adding their wealth and treasure to my store.
     The Euxine sea, north to Natolia;
     The Terrene, [246] west; the Caspian, north northeast;
     And on the south, Sinus Arabicus;
     Shall all [247] be loaden with the martial spoils
     We will convey with us to Persia.
     Then shall my native city Samarcanda,
     And crystal waves of fresh Jaertis' [248] stream,
     The pride and beauty of her princely seat,
     Be famous through the furthest [249] continents;
     For there my palace royal shall be plac'd,
     Whose shining turrets shall dismay the heavens,
     And cast the fame of Ilion's tower to hell:
     Thorough [250] the streets, with troops of conquer'd kings,
     I'll ride in golden armour like the sun;
     And in my helm a triple plume shall spring,
     Spangled with diamonds, dancing in the air,
     To note me emperor of the three-fold world;
     Like to an almond-tree [251] y-mounted [252] high
     Upon the lofty and celestial mount
     Of ever-green Selinus, [253] quaintly deck'd
     With blooms more white than Erycina's [254] brows, [255]
     Whose tender blossoms tremble every one
     At every little breath that thorough heaven [256] is blown.
     Then in my coach, like Saturn's royal son
     Mounted his shining chariot [257] gilt with fire,
     And drawn with princely eagles through the path
     Pav'd with bright crystal and enchas'd with stars,
     When all the gods stand gazing at his pomp,
     So will I ride through Samarcanda-streets,
     Until my soul, dissever'd from this flesh,
     Shall mount the milk-white way, and meet him there.
     To Babylon, my lords, to Babylon!
          [Exeunt.]

ACT V.

SCENE I.

          Enter the GOVERNOR OF BABYLON, MAXIMUS, and others, upon
          the walls.

     GOVERNOR.  What saith Maximus?

     MAXIMUS.  My lord, the breach the enemy hath made
     Gives such assurance of our overthrow,
     That little hope is left to save our lives,
     Or hold our city from the conqueror's hands.
     Then hang out [258] flags, my lord, of humble truce,
     And satisfy the people's general prayers,
     That Tamburlaine's intolerable wrath
     May be suppress'd by our submission.

     GOVERNOR.  Villain, respect'st thou [259] more thy slavish life
     Than honour of thy country or thy name?
     Is not my life and state as dear to me,
     The city and my native country's weal,
     As any thing of [260] price with thy conceit?
     Have we not hope, for all our batter'd walls,
     To live secure and keep his forces out,
     When this our famous lake of Limnasphaltis
     Makes walls a-fresh with every thing that falls
     Into the liquid substance of his stream,
     More strong than are the gates of death or hell?
     What faintness should dismay our courages,
     When we are thus defenc'd against our foe,
     And have no terror but his threatening looks?

          Enter, above, a CITIZEN, who kneels to the GOVERNOR.

     CITIZEN.  My lord, if ever you did deed of ruth,
     And now will work a refuge to our lives,
     Offer submission, hang up flags of truce,
     That Tamburlaine may pity our distress,
     And use us like a loving conqueror.
     Though this be held his last day's dreadful siege,
     Wherein he spareth neither man nor child,
     Yet are there Christians of Georgia here,
     Whose state he [261] ever pitied and reliev'd,
     Will get his pardon, if your grace would send.

     GOVERNOR.  How [262] is my soul environed!
     And this eterniz'd [263] city Babylon
     Fill'd with a pack of faint-heart fugitives
     That thus entreat their shame and servitude!

          Enter, above, a SECOND CITIZEN.

     SECOND CITIZEN.  My lord, if ever you will win our hearts,
     Yield up the town, and [264] save our wives and children;
     For I will cast myself from off these walls,
     Or die some death of quickest violence,
     Before I bide the wrath of Tamburlaine.

     GOVERNOR.  Villains, cowards, traitors to our state!
     Fall to the earth, and pierce the pit of hell,
     That legions of tormenting spirits may vex
     Your slavish bosoms with continual pains!
     I care not, nor the town will never yield
     As long as any life is in my breast.

          Enter THERIDAMAS and TECHELLES, with SOLDIERS.

     THERIDAMAS.  Thou desperate governor of Babylon,
     To save thy life, and us a little labour,
     Yield speedily the city to our hands,
     Or else be sure thou shalt be forc'd with pains
     More exquisite than ever traitor felt.

     GOVERNOR.  Tyrant, I turn the traitor in thy throat,
     And will defend it in despite of thee.--
     Call up the soldiers to defend these walls.

     TECHELLES.  Yield, foolish governor; we offer more
     Than ever yet we did to such proud slaves
     As durst resist us till our third day's siege.
     Thou seest us prest [265] to give the last assault,
     And that shall bide no more regard of parle. [266]

     GOVERNOR.  Assault and spare not; we will never yield.
          [Alarms:  and they scale the walls.]

          Enter TAMBURLAINE, drawn in his chariot (as before) by the
          KINGS OF TREBIZON and SORIA; AMYRAS, CELEBINUS, USUMCASANE;
          ORCANES king of Natolia, and the KING OF JERUSALEM, led by
          SOLDIERS; [267] and others.

     TAMBURLAINE.  The stately buildings of fair Babylon,
     Whose lofty pillars, higher than the clouds,
     Were wont to guide the seaman in the deep,
     Being carried thither by the cannon's force,
     Now fill the mouth of Limnasphaltis' lake,
     And make a bridge unto the batter'd walls.
     Where Belus, Ninus, and great Alexander
     Have rode in triumph, triumphs Tamburlaine,
     Whose chariot-wheels have burst [268] th' Assyrians' bones,
     Drawn with these kings on heaps of carcasses.
     Now in the place, where fair Semiramis,
     Courted by kings and peers of Asia,
     Hath trod the measures, [269] do my soldiers march;
     And in the streets, where brave Assyrian dames
     Have rid in pomp like rich Saturnia,
     With furious words and frowning visages
     My horsemen brandish their unruly blades.
          Re-enter THERIDAMAS and TECHELLES, bringing in the
          GOVERNOR OF BABYLON.
     Who have ye there, my lords?

     THERIDAMAS.  The sturdy governor of Babylon,
     That made us all the labour for the town,
     And us'd such slender reckoning of [270] your majesty.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Go, bind the villain; he shall hang in chains
     Upon the ruins of this conquer'd town.--
     Sirrah, the view of our vermilion tents
     (Which threaten'd more than if the region
     Next underneath the element of fire
     Were full of comets and of blazing stars,
     Whose flaming trains should reach down to the earth)
     Could not affright you; no, nor I myself,
     The wrathful messenger of mighty Jove,
     That with his sword hath quail'd all earthly kings,
     Could not persuade you to submission,
     But still the ports [271] were shut:  villain, I say,
     Should I but touch the rusty gates of hell,
     The triple-headed Cerberus would howl,
     And make [272] black Jove to crouch and kneel to me;
     But I have sent volleys of shot to you,
     Yet could not enter till the breach was made.

     GOVERNOR.  Nor, if my body could have stopt the breach,
     Shouldst thou have enter'd, cruel Tamburlaine.
     'Tis not thy bloody tents can make me yield,
     Nor yet thyself, the anger of the Highest;
     For, though thy cannon shook the city-walls, [273]
     My heart did never quake, or courage faint.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Well, now I'll make it quake.--Go draw him [274] up,
     Hang him in [275] chains upon the city-walls,
     And let my soldiers shoot the slave to death.

     GOVERNOR.  Vile monster, born of some infernal hag,
     And sent from hell to tyrannize on earth,
     Do all thy worst; nor death, nor Tamburlaine,
     Torture, or pain, can daunt my dreadless mind.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Up with him, then! his body shall be scar'd. [276]

     GOVERNOR.  But, Tamburlaine, in Limnasphaltis' lake
     There lies more gold than Babylon is worth,
     Which, when the city was besieg'd, I hid:
     Save but my life, and I will give it thee.

     TAMBURLAINE.
     Then, for all your valour, you would save your life?
     Whereabout lies it?

     GOVERNOR.  Under a hollow bank, right opposite
     Against the western gate of Babylon.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Go thither, some of you, and take his gold:--
          [Exeunt some ATTENDANTS.]
     The rest forward with execution.
     Away with him hence, let him speak no more.--
     I think I make your courage something quail.--
          [Exeunt ATTENDANTS with the GOVERNOR or BABYLON.]
     When this is done, we'll march from Babylon,
     And make our greatest haste to Persia.
     These jades are broken-winded and half-tir'd;
     Unharness them, and let me have fresh horse.
          [ATTENDANTS unharness the KINGS or TREBIZON and SORIA]
     So; now their best is done to honour me,
     Take them and hang them both up presently.

     KING OF TREBIZON.
     Vile [277] tyrant! barbarous bloody Tamburlaine!

     TAMBURLAINE.  Take them away, Theridamas; see them despatch'd.

     THERIDAMAS.  I will, my lord.
          [Exit with the KINGS or TREBIZON and SORIA.]

     TAMBURLAINE.  Come, Asian viceroys; to your tasks a while,
     And take such fortune as your fellows felt.

     ORCANES.  First let thy Scythian horse tear both our limbs,
     Rather than we should draw thy chariot,
     And, like base slaves, abject our princely minds
     To vile and ignominious servitude.

     KING OF JERUSALEM.  Rather lend me thy weapon, Tamburlaine,
     That I may sheathe it in this breast of mine.
     A thousand deaths could not torment our hearts
     More than the thought of this doth vex our souls.

     AMYRAS.
     They will talk still, my lord, if you do not bridle them.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Bridle them, and let me to my coach.

          [ATTENDANTS bridle ORCANES king of Natolia, and the
          KING OF JERUSALEM, and harness them to the chariot.--
          The GOVERNOR OF BABYLON appears hanging in chains
          on the walls.--Re-enter THERIDAMAS.]

     AMYRAS.  See, now, my lord, how brave the captain hangs!

     TAMBURLAINE.  'Tis brave indeed, my boy:--well done!--
     Shoot first, my lord, and then the rest shall follow.

     THERIDAMAS.  Then have at him, to begin withal.
          [THERIDAMAS shoots at the GOVERNOR.]

     GOVERNOR.  Yet save my life, and let this wound appease
     The mortal fury of great Tamburlaine!

     TAMBURLAINE.  No, though Asphaltis' lake were liquid gold,
     And offer'd me as ransom for thy life,
     Yet shouldst thou die.--Shoot at him all at once.
          [They shoot.]
     So, now he hangs like Bagdet's [278] governor,
     Having as many bullets in his flesh
     As there be breaches in her batter'd wall.
     Go now, and bind the burghers hand and foot,
     And cast them headlong in the city's lake.
     Tartars and Persians shall inhabit there;
     And, to command the city, I will build
     A citadel, [279] that all Africa,
     Which hath been subject to the Persian king,
     Shall pay me tribute for in Babylon.

     TECHELLES.
     What shall be done with their wives and children, my lord?

     TAMBURLAINE.  Techelles, drown them all, man, woman, and child;
     Leave not a Babylonian in the town.

     TECHELLES.  I will about it straight.--Come, soldiers.
          [Exit with SOLDIERS.]

     TAMBURLAINE.  Now, Casane, where's the Turkish Alcoran,
     And all the heaps of superstitious books
     Found in the temples of that Mahomet
     Whom I have thought a god? they shall be burnt.

     USUMCASANE.  Here they are, my lord.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Well said! [280] let there be a fire presently.
          [They light a fire.]
     In vain, I see, men worship Mahomet:
     My sword hath sent millions of Turks to hell,
     Slew all his priests, his kinsmen, and his friends,
     And yet I live untouch'd by Mahomet.
     There is a God, full of revenging wrath,
     ]From whom the thunder and the lightning breaks,
     Whose scourge I am, and him will I [281] obey.
     So, Casane; fling them in the fire.--
          [They burn the books.]
     Now, Mahomet, if thou have any power,
     Come down thyself and work a miracle:
     Thou art not worthy to be worshipped
     That suffer'st [282] flames of fire to burn the writ
     Wherein the sum of thy religion rests:
     Why send'st [283] thou not a furious whirlwind down,
     To blow thy Alcoran up to thy throne,
     Where men report thou sitt'st [284] by God himself?
     Or vengeance on the head [285] of Tamburlaine
     That shakes his sword against thy majesty,
     And spurns the abstracts of thy foolish laws?--
     Well, soldiers, Mahomet remains in hell;
     He cannot hear the voice of Tamburlaine:
     Seek out another godhead to adore;
     The God that sits in heaven, if any god,
     For he is God alone, and none but he.

          Re-enter TECHELLES.

     TECHELLES.  I have fulfill'd your highness' will, my lord:
     Thousands of men, drown'd in Asphaltis' lake,
     Have made the water swell above the banks,
     And fishes, fed [286] by human carcasses,
     Amaz'd, swim up and down upon [287] the waves,
     As when they swallow assafoetida,
     Which makes them fleet [288] aloft and gape [289] for air.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Well, then, my friendly lords, what now remains,
     But that we leave sufficient garrison,
     And presently depart to Persia,
     To triumph after all our victories?

     THERIDAMAS.  Ay, good my lord, let us in [290] haste to Persia;
     And let this captain be remov'd the walls
     To some high hill about the city here.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Let it be so;--about it, soldiers;--
     But stay; I feel myself distemper'd suddenly.

     TECHELLES.  What is it dares distemper Tamburlaine?

     TAMBURLAINE.  Something, Techelles; but I know not what.--
     But, forth, ye vassals! [291] whatsoe'er [292] it be,
     Sickness or death can never conquer me.
          [Exeunt.]

SCENE II.

          Enter CALLAPINE, KING OF AMASIA, a CAPTAIN, and train,
          with drums and trumpets.

     CALLAPINE.  King of Amasia, now our mighty host
     Marcheth in Asia Major, where the streams
     Of Euphrates [293] and Tigris swiftly run;
     And here may we [294] behold great Babylon,
     Circled about with Limnasphaltis' lake,
     Where Tamburlaine with all his army lies,
     Which being faint and weary with the siege,
     We may lie ready to encounter him
     Before his host be full from Babylon,
     And so revenge our latest grievous loss,
     If God or Mahomet send any aid.

     KING OF AMASIA.  Doubt not, my lord, but we shall conquer him:
     The monster that hath drunk a sea of blood,
     And yet gapes still for more to quench his thirst,
     Our Turkish swords shall headlong send to hell;
     And that vile carcass, drawn by warlike kings,
     The fowls shall eat; for never sepulchre
     Shall grace this [295] base-born tyrant Tamburlaine.

     CALLAPINE.  When I record [296] my parents' slavish life,
     Their cruel death, mine own captivity,
     My viceroys' bondage under Tamburlaine,
     Methinks I could sustain a thousand deaths,
     To be reveng'd of all his villany.--
     Ah, sacred Mahomet, thou that hast seen
     Millions of Turks perish by Tamburlaine,
     Kingdoms made waste, brave cities sack'd and burnt,
     And but one host is left to honour thee,
     Aid [297] thy obedient servant Callapine,
     And make him, after all these overthrows,
     To triumph over cursed Tamburlaine!

     KING OF AMASIA.  Fear not, my lord:  I see great Mahomet,
     Clothed in purple clouds, and on his head
     A chaplet brighter than Apollo's crown,
     Marching about the air with armed men,
     To join with you against this Tamburlaine.

     CAPTAIN.  Renowmed [298] general, mighty Callapine,
     Though God himself and holy Mahomet
     Should come in person to resist your power,
     Yet might your mighty host encounter all,
     And pull proud Tamburlaine upon his knees
     To sue for mercy at your highness' feet.

     CALLAPINE.  Captain, the force of Tamburlaine is great,
     His fortune greater, and the victories
     Wherewith he hath so sore dismay'd the world
     Are greatest to discourage all our drifts;
     Yet, when the pride of Cynthia is at full,
     She wanes again; and so shall his, I hope;
     For we have here the chief selected men
     Of twenty several kingdoms at the least;
     Nor ploughman, priest, nor merchant, stays at home;
     All Turkey is in arms with Callapine;
     And never will we sunder camps and arms
     Before himself or his be conquered:
     This is the time that must eternize me
     For conquering the tyrant of the world.
     Come, soldiers, let us lie in wait for him,
     And, if we find him absent from his camp,
     Or that it be rejoin'd again at full,
     Assail it, and be sure of victory.
          [Exeunt.]

SCENE III.

          Enter THERIDAMAS, TECHELLES, and USUMCASANE.

     THERIDAMAS.  Weep, heavens, and vanish into liquid tears!
     Fall, stars that govern his nativity,
     And summon all the shining lamps of heaven
     To cast their bootless fires to the earth,
     And shed their feeble influence in the air;
     Muffle your beauties with eternal clouds;
     For Hell and Darkness pitch their pitchy tents,
     And Death, with armies of Cimmerian spirits,
     Gives battle 'gainst the heart of Tamburlaine!
     Now, in defiance of that wonted love
     Your sacred virtues pour'd upon his throne,
     And made his state an honour to the heavens,
     These cowards invisibly [299] assail his soul,
     And threaten conquest on our sovereign;
     But, if he die, your glories are disgrac'd,
     Earth droops, and says that hell in heaven is plac'd!

     TECHELLES.  O, then, ye powers that sway eternal seats,
     And guide this massy substance of the earth,
     If you retain desert of holiness,
     As your supreme estates instruct our thoughts,
     Be not inconstant, careless of your fame,
     Bear not the burden of your enemies' joys,
     Triumphing in his fall whom you advanc'd;
     But, as his birth, life, health, and majesty
     Were strangely blest and governed by heaven,
     So honour, heaven, (till heaven dissolved be,)
     His birth, his life, his health, and majesty!

     USUMCASANE.  Blush, heaven, to lose the honour of thy name,
     To see thy footstool set upon thy head;
     And let no baseness in thy haughty breast
     Sustain a shame of such inexcellence, [300]
     To see the devils mount in angels' thrones,
     And angels dive into the pools of hell!
     And, though they think their painful date is out,
     And that their power is puissant as Jove's,
     Which makes them manage arms against thy state,
     Yet make them feel the strength of Tamburlaine
     (Thy instrument and note of majesty)
     Is greater far than they can thus subdue;
     For, if he die, thy glory is disgrac'd,
     Earth droops, and says that hell in heaven is plac'd!

          Enter TAMBURLAINE, [301] drawn in his chariot (as before)
          by ORCANES king of Natolia, and the KING OF JERUSALEM,
          AMYRAS, CELEBINUS, and Physicians.

     TAMBURLAINE.  What daring god torments my body thus,
     And seeks to conquer mighty Tamburlaine?
     Shall sickness prove me now to be a man,
     That have been term'd the terror of the world?
     Techelles and the rest, come, take your swords,
     And threaten him whose hand afflicts my soul:
     Come, let us march against the powers of heaven,
     And set black streamers in the firmament,
     To signify the slaughter of the gods.
     Ah, friends, what shall I do? I cannot stand.
     Come, carry me to war against the gods,
     That thus envy the health of Tamburlaine.

     THERIDAMAS.  Ah, good my lord, leave these impatient words,
     Which add much danger to your malady!

     TAMBURLAINE.  Why, shall I sit and languish in this pain?
     No, strike the drums, and, in revenge of this,
     Come, let us charge our spears, and pierce his breast
     Whose shoulders bear the axis of the world,
     That, if I perish, heaven and earth may fade.
     Theridamas, haste to the court of Jove;
     Will him to send Apollo hither straight,
     To cure me, or I'll fetch him down myself.

     TECHELLES.
     Sit still, my gracious lord; this grief will cease, [302]
     And cannot last, it is so violent.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Not last, Techelles! no, for I shall die.
     See, where my slave, the ugly monster Death,
     Shaking and quivering, pale and wan for fear,
     Stands aiming at me with his murdering dart,
     Who flies away at every glance I give,
     And, when I look away, comes stealing on!--
     Villain, away, and hie thee to the field!
     I and mine army come to load thy back
     With souls of thousand mangled carcasses.--
     Look, where he goes! but, see, he comes again,
     Because I stay!  Techelles, let us march,
     And weary Death with bearing souls to hell.

     FIRST PHYSICIAN.  Pleaseth your majesty to drink this potion,
     Which will abate the fury of your fit,
     And cause some milder spirits govern you.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Tell me what think you of my sickness now?

     FIRST PHYSICIAN.  I view'd your urine, and the hypostasis, [303]
     Thick and obscure, doth make your danger great:
     Your veins are full of accidental heat,
     Whereby the moisture of your blood is dried:
     The humidum and calor, which some hold
     Is not a parcel of the elements,
     But of a substance more divine and pure,
     Is almost clean extinguished and spent;
     Which, being the cause of life, imports your death:
     Besides, my lord, this day is critical,
     Dangerous to those whose crisis is as yours:
     Your artiers, [304] which alongst the veins convey
     The lively spirits which the heart engenders,
     Are parch'd and void of spirit, that the soul,
     Wanting those organons by which it moves,
     Cannot endure, by argument of art.
     Yet, if your majesty may escape this day,
     No doubt but you shall soon recover all.

     TAMBURLAINE.  Then will I comfort all my vital parts,
     And live, in spite of death, above a day.
          [Alarms within.]

          Enter a Messenger.

     MESSENGER.  My lord, young Callapine, that lately fled
     from your majesty, hath now gathered a fresh army, and,
     hearing your absence in the field, offers to set upon [305] us
     presently.

     TAMBURLAINE.  See, my physicians, now, how Jove hath sent
     A present medicine to recure my pain!
     My looks shall make them fly; and, might I follow,
     There should not one of all the villain's power
     Live to give offer of another fight.

     USUMCASANE.  I joy, my lord, your highness is so strong,
     That can endure so well your royal presence,
     Which only will dismay the enemy.

     TAMBURLAINE.  I know it will, Casane.--Draw, you slaves!
     In spite of death, I will go shew my face.
          [Alarms.  Exit TAMBURLAINE with all the rest (except the
          PHYSICIANS), and re-enter presently.]

     TAMBURLAINE.  Thus are the villain cowards [306] fled for fear,
     Like summer's vapours vanish'd by the sun;
     And, could I but a while pursue the field,
     That Callapine should be my slave again.
     But I perceive my martial strength is spent:
     In vain I strive and rail against those powers
     That mean t' invest me in a higher throne,
     As much too high for this disdainful earth.
     Give me a map; then let me see how much
     Is left for me to conquer all the world,
     That these, my boys, may finish all my wants.
          [One brings a map.]
     Here I began to march towards Persia,
     Along Armenia and the Caspian Sea,
     And thence unto [307] Bithynia, where I took
     The Turk and his great empress prisoners.
     Then march'd I into Egypt and Arabia;
     And here, not far from Alexandria,
     Whereas [308] the Terrene [309] and the Red Sea meet,
     Being distant less than full a hundred leagues,
     I meant to cut a channel to them both,
     That men might quickly sail to India.
     ]From thence to Nubia near Borno-lake,
     And so along the Aethiopian sea,
     Cutting the tropic line of Capricorn,
     I conquer'd all as far as Zanzibar.
     Then, by the northern part of Africa,
     I came at last to Graecia, and from thence
     To Asia, where I stay against my will;
     Which is from Scythia, where I first began, [310]
     Backward[s] and forwards near five thousand leagues.
     Look here, my boys; see, what a world of ground
     Lies westward from the midst of Cancer's line
     Unto the rising of this [311] earthly globe,
     Whereas the sun, declining from our sight,
     Begins the day with our Antipodes!
     And shall I die, and this unconquered?
     Lo, here, my sons, are all the golden mines,
     Inestimable drugs and precious stones,
     More worth than Asia and the world beside;
     And from th' Antarctic Pole eastward behold
     As much more land, which never was descried,
     Wherein are rocks of pearl that shine as bright
     As all the lamps that beautify the sky!
     And shall I die, and this unconquered?
     Here, lovely boys; what death forbids my life,
     That let your lives command in spite of death.

     AMYRAS.  Alas, my lord, how should our bleeding hearts,
     Wounded and broken with your highness' grief,
     Retain a thought of joy or spark of life?
     Your soul gives essence to our wretched subjects, [312]
     Whose matter is incorporate in your flesh.

     CELEBINUS.  Your pains do pierce our souls; no hope survives,
     For by your life we entertain our lives.

     TAMBURLAINE.  But, sons, this subject, not of force enough
     To hold the fiery spirit it contains,
     Must part, imparting his impressions
     By equal portions into [313] both your breasts;
     My flesh, divided in your precious shapes,
     Shall still retain my spirit, though I die,
     And live in all your seeds [314] immortally.--
     Then now remove me, that I may resign
     My place and proper title to my son.--
     First, take my scourge and my imperial crown,
     And mount my royal chariot of estate,
     That I may see thee crown'd before I die.--
     Help me, my lords, to make my last remove.
          [They assist TAMBURLAINE to descend from the chariot.]

     THERIDAMAS.  A woful change, my lord, that daunts our thoughts
     More than the ruin of our proper souls!

     TAMBURLAINE.  Sit up, my son, [and] let me see how well
     Thou wilt become thy father's majesty.

     AMYRAS.  With what a flinty bosom should I joy
     The breath of life and burden of my soul,
     If not resolv'd into resolved pains,
     My body's mortified lineaments [315]
     Should exercise the motions of my heart,
     Pierc'd with the joy of any dignity!
     O father, if the unrelenting ears
     Of Death and Hell be shut against my prayers,
     And that the spiteful influence of Heaven
     Deny my soul fruition of her joy,
     How should I step, or stir my hateful feet
     Against the inward powers of my heart,
     Leading a life that only strives to die,
     And plead in vain unpleasing sovereignty!

     TAMBURLAINE.  Let not thy love exceed thine honour, son,
     Nor bar thy mind that magnanimity
     That nobly must admit necessity.
     Sit up, my boy, and with these [316] silken reins
     Bridle the steeled stomachs of these [317] jades.

     THERIDAMAS.  My lord, you must obey his majesty,
     Since fate commands and proud necessity.

     AMYRAS.  Heavens witness me with what a broken heart
          [Mounting the chariot.]
     And damned [318] spirit I ascend this seat,
     And send my soul, before my father die,
     His anguish and his burning agony!
          [They crown AMYRAS.]

     TAMBURLAINE.  Now fetch the hearse of fair Zenocrate;
     Let it be plac'd by this my fatal chair,
     And serve as parcel of my funeral.

     USUMCASANE.  Then feels your majesty no sovereign ease,
     Nor may our hearts, all drown'd in tears of blood,
     Joy any hope of your recovery?

     TAMBURLAINE.  Casane, no; the monarch of the earth,
     And eyeless monster that torments my soul,
     Cannot behold the tears ye shed for me,
     And therefore still augments his cruelty.

     TECHELLES.  Then let some god oppose his holy power
     Against the wrath and tyranny of Death,
     That his tear-thirsty and unquenched hate
     May be upon himself reverberate!
          [They bring in the hearse of ZENOCRATE.]

     TAMBURLAINE.  Now, eyes, enjoy your latest benefit,
     And, when my soul hath virtue of your sight,
     Pierce through the coffin and the sheet of gold,
     And glut your longings with a heaven of joy.
     So, reign, my son; scourge and control those slaves,
     Guiding thy chariot with thy father's hand.
     As precious is the charge thou undertak'st
     As that which Clymene's [319] brain-sick son did guide,
     When wandering Phoebe's [320] ivory cheeks were scorch'd,
     And all the earth, like Aetna, breathing fire:
     Be warn'd by him, then; learn with awful eye
     To sway a throne as dangerous as his;
     For, if thy body thrive not full of thoughts
     As pure and fiery as Phyteus' [321] beams,
     The nature of these proud rebelling jades
     Will take occasion by the slenderest hair,
     And draw thee [322] piecemeal, like Hippolytus,
     Through rocks more steep and sharp than Caspian cliffs: [323]
     The nature of thy chariot will not bear
     A guide of baser temper than myself,
     More than heaven's coach the pride of Phaeton.
     Farewell, my boys! my dearest friends, farewell!
     My body feels, my soul doth weep to see
     Your sweet desires depriv'd my company,
     For Tamburlaine, the scourge of God, must die.
          [Dies.]

     AMYRAS.  Meet heaven and earth, and here let all things end,
     For earth hath spent the pride of all her fruit,
     And heaven consum'd his choicest living fire!
     Let earth and heaven his timeless death deplore,
     For both their worths will equal him no more!
          [Exeunt.]

NOTES:

[a] [From THE FIRST PART OF TAMBURLAINE THE GREAT]

     Tamburlaine the Great.  Who, from a Scythian Shephearde
     by his rare and woonderfull Conquests, became a most
     puissant and mightye Monarque.  And (for his tyranny,
     and terrour in Warre) was tearmed, The Scourge of God.
     Deuided into two Tragicall Discourses, as they were
     sundrie times shewed vpon Stages in the Citie of London.
     By the right honorable the Lord Admyrall, his seruauntes.
     Now first, and newlie published.  London.  Printed by
     Richard Ihones:  at the signe of the Rose and Crowne
     neere Holborne Bridge.  1590.  4to.

The above title-page is pasted into a copy of the FIRST PART OF
TAMBURLAINE in the Library at Bridge-water House; which copy,
excepting that title-page and the Address to the Readers, is the
impression of 1605.  I once supposed that the title-pages which
bear the dates 1605 and 1606 (see below) had been added to the
4tos of the TWO PARTS of the play originally printed in 1590;
but I am now convinced that both PARTS were really reprinted,
THE FIRST PART in 1605, and THE SECOND PART in 1606, and that
nothing remains of the earlier 4tos, except the title-page and
the Address to the Readers, which are preserved in the
Bridgewater collection.

In the Bodleian Library, Oxford, is an 8vo edition of both PARTS
OF TAMBURLAINE, dated 1590:  the title-page of THE FIRST PART
agrees verbatim with that given above; the half-title-page of
THE SECOND PART is as follows;

     The Second Part of The bloody Conquests of mighty
     Tamburlaine.  With his impassionate fury, for the death
     of his Lady and loue faire Zenocrate; his fourme of
     exhortacion and discipline to his three sons, and the
     maner of his own death.

In the Garrick Collection, British Museum, is an 8vo edition of
both PARTS dated 1592:  the title-page of THE FIRST PART runs thus;

     Tamburlaine the Great.  Who, from a Scythian Shepheard,
     by his rare and wonderfull Conquestes, became a most
     puissant and mightie Mornarch [sic]:  And (for his
     tyrannie, and terrour in warre) was tearmed, The Scourge
     of God.  The first part of the two Tragicall discourses,
     as they were sundrie times most stately shewed vpon
     Stages in the Citie of London.  By the right honorable
     the Lord Admirall, his seruauntes.  Now newly published.
     Printed by Richard Iones, dwelling at the signe of the
     Rose and Crowne neere Holborne Bridge.

The half-title-page of THE SECOND PART agrees exactly with that
already given.  Perhaps the 8vo at Oxford and that in the British
Museum (for I have not had an opportunity of comparing them) are
the same impression, differing only in the title-pages.

Langbaine (ACCOUNT OF ENGL. DRAM. POETS, p. 344) mentions an 8vo
dated 1593.

The title-pages of the latest impressions of THE TWO PARTS are
as follows;

     Tamburlaine the Greate.  Who, from the state of a
     Shepheard in Scythia, by his rare and wonderfull
     Conquests, became a most puissant and mighty Monarque.
     London Printed for Edward White, and are to be solde
     at the little North doore of Saint Paules-Church, at
     the signe of the Gunne, 1605.  4to.

     Tamburlaine the Greate.  With his impassionate furie,
     for the death of his Lady and Loue fair Zenocrate:  his
     forme of exhortation and discipline to his three Sonnes,
     and the manner of his owne death.  The second part.
     London Printed by E. A. for Ed. White, and are to be
     solde at his Shop neere the little North doore of Saint
     Paules Church at the Signe of the Gun.  1606.  4to.

The text of the present edition is given from the 8vo of 1592,
collated with the 4tos of 1605-6.]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: the] So the 4to.--The 8vo "our."]

[Footnote 2: triumphs] So the 8vo.--The 4to "triumph."]

[Footnote 3: sad] Old eds. "said."]

[Footnote 4: Uribassa] In this scene, but only here, the old eds. have
"Upibassa."]

[Footnote 5: Almains, Rutters] RUTTERS are properly--German troopers,
(REITER, REUTER).  In the third speech after the present one
this line is repeated VERBATIM:  but in the first scene of
our author's FAUSTUS we have,--

    "Like ALMAIN RUTTERS with their horsemen's staves."]

[Footnote 6: ORCANES.] Omitted in the old eds.]

[Footnote 7: hugy] i.e. huge.]

[Footnote 8: cut the] So the 8vo.--The 4to "out of."]

[Footnote 9: champion] i.e. champaign.]

[Footnote 10: Terrene] i.e. Mediterranean (but the Danube falls into the
Black Sea.)]

[Footnote 11: Cairo] Old eds. "Cairon:" but they are not consistent in
the spelling of this name; afterwards (p. 45, sec. col.) [See
note 29.] they have "Cario."]

[Footnote 12: Fear] i.e. frighten.]

[Footnote 13: Sorians] So the 4to.--Here the 8vo has "Syrians"; but
elsewhere in this SEC. PART of the play it agrees with the 4to
in having "Sorians," and "Soria" (which occurs repeatedly,--the
King of SORIA being one of the characters).--Compare Jonson's
FOX, act iv. sc. 1;

                        "whether a ship,
     Newly arriv'd from SORIA, or from
     Any suspected part of all the Levant,
     Be guilty of the plague," &c.

On which passage Whalley remarks; "The city Tyre, from whence
the whole country had its name, was anciently called ZUR or ZOR;
since the Arabs erected their empire in the East, it has been
again called SOR, and is at this day known by no other name in
those parts.  Hence the Italians formed their SORIA."]

[Footnote 14: black] So the 8vo.--The 4to "AND black."]

[Footnote 15: Egyptians,
Illyrians, Thracians, and Bithynians] So the 8vo (except
that by a misprint it gives "Illicians").--
The 4to has,--

                                "Egyptians,

     FREDERICK.  And we from Europe to the same intent
     Illirians, Thracians, and Bithynians";

a line which belongs to a later part of the scene (see next
col.) being unaccountably inserted here.  (See note 21.)]

[Footnote 16: plage] i.e. region.  So the 8vo.--The 4to "Place."]

[Footnote 17: viceroy] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Vice-royes."]

[Footnote 18: Boheme] i.e. Bohemia.]

[Footnote 19: Bagdet's] So the 8vo in act v. sc. 1.  Here it has
"Badgeths":  the 4to "Baieths."]

[Footnote 20: parle] So the 8vo.--Here the 4to "parley," but before,
repeatedly, "parle."]

[Footnote 21: FREDERICK.  And we from Europe, to the same intent]
So the 8vo.--The 4to, which gives this line in an earlier part
of the scene (see note §, preceding col.), [i.e. note 15]
omits it here.]

[Footnote 22: stand] So the 8vo.--The 4to "are."]

[Footnote 23: prest] i.e. ready.]

[Footnote 24: or] So the 8vo.--The 4to "and."]

[Footnote 25: conditions] So the 4to.--The 8vo "condition."]

[Footnote 26: Confirm'd] So the 4to.--The 8vo "Confirme."]

[Footnote 27: by] So the 8vo.--The 4to "with."]

[Footnote 28: renowmed] See note ||, p. 11. (Here the old eds. agree.)

    [Note ||, from p. 11.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

     "renowmed] i.e. renowned.--So the 8vo.--The 4to
     "renowned."--The form "RENOWMED" (Fr. renomme) occurs
     repeatedly afterwards in this play, according to the 8vo.
     It is occasionally found in writers posterior to Marlowe's
     time.  e.g.

       "Of Constantines great towne RENOUM'D in vaine."
          Verses to King James, prefixed to Lord Stirling's
          MONARCHICKE TRAGEDIES, ed. 1607.]

[Footnote 29: Cairo] Old eds. "Cario."  See note ¶, p. 43.  (i.e. note
11.)]

[Footnote 30: stream] Old eds. "streames."]

[Footnote 31: at] So the 4to.--The 8vo "an."]

[Footnote 32: Terrene] i.e. Mediterranean.]

[Footnote 33: Where] Altered by the modern editors to "Whence,"--an
alteration made by one of them also in a speech at p. 48, sec.
col., [see note 57: which may be compared with the present
one,--

    "Therefore I took my course to Manico,
     WHERE, unresisted, I remov'd my camp;
     And, by the coast," &c.]

[Footnote 34: from] So the 4to.--The 8vo "to."]

[Footnote 35: need] i.e. must.]

[Footnote 36: let] i.e. hinder.]

[Footnote 37: tainted] i.e. touched, struck lightly; see Richardson's
DICT. in v.]

[Footnote 38: shall] So the 8vo.--The 4to "should."]

[Footnote 39: of] So the 8vo.--The 4to "to."]

[Footnote 40: to] So the 8vo.--The 4to "of."]

[Footnote 41: sprung] So the 8vo.--The 4to "sprong".--See note ?,
d. [p.] 14.

    [Note ?, from  p. 14.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

     "Sprung] Here, and in the next speech, both the old eds.
     "SPRONG":  but in p. 18, l. 3, first col., the 4to has
     "SPRUNG", and in the SEC. PART of the play, act iv. sc. 4,
     they both give "SPRUNG from a tyrants loynes."

      [Page 18, First Column, Line 3, The First Part of
       Tamburlaine the Great,
       "For he was never sprung of human race,"]

[Footnote 42: superficies] Old eds. "superfluities."--(In act iii. sc. 4,
we have,

    "the concave SUPERFICIES
     Of Jove's vast palace.")]

[Footnote 43: through] So the 4to.--The 8vo "thorow."]

[Footnote 44: carcasses] So the 8vo.--The 4to "carkasse."]

[Footnote 45: we] So the 8vo.--The 4to "yon (you)."]

[Footnote 46: channel] i.e. collar, neck,--collar-bone.]

[Footnote 47: Morocco] The old eds. here, and in the next speech,
"Morocus"; but see note ?, p. 22.

    [note ?, from p. 22.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

    "Morocco] Here the old eds. "Moroccus,"--a barbarism which
     I have not retained, because previously, in the stage-
     direction at the commencement of this act, p. 19, they
     agree in reading "Morocco."]

[Footnote 48: war] So the 8vo.--The 4to "warres."]

[Footnote 49: if infernal] So the 8vo.--The 4to "if THE infernall."]

[Footnote 50: thee] Old eds. "them."]

[Footnote 51: these] So the 4to.--The 8vo "this."]

[Footnote 52: strong] A mistake,--occasioned by the word "strong"
in the next line.]

[Footnote 53: Bootes'] So the 4to.--The 8vo "Boetes."]

[Footnote 54: leaguer] i.e. camp.]

[Footnote 55: Jubalter] Here the old eds. have "Gibralter"; but in the
First Part of this play they have "JUBALTER":  see p. 25,
first col.

    [p. 25, first col.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

    "And thence unto the Straits of Jubalter;"]

[Footnote 56: The mighty Christian Priest,

     Call'd John the Great] Concerning the fabulous personage,

     PRESTER JOHN, see Nares's GLOSS. in v.]

[Footnote 57: Where] See note ¶, p. 45. (i.e. note 33.)]

[Footnote 58: Byather] The editor of 1826 printed "Biafar":  but it is
very doubtful if Marlowe wrote the names of places correctly.]

[Footnote 59: Damascus] Here the old eds. "Damasco."  See note *, p. 31.

     note *, from p. 31.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

    "Damascus] Both the old eds. here "Damasco:" but in many
     other places they agree in reading "Damascus."]

[Footnote 60: And made, &c.] A word dropt out from this line.]

[Footnote 61: him] i.e. the king of Natolia.]

[Footnote 62: orient] Old eds. "orientall" and "oriental."--Both in our
author's FAUSTUS and in his JEW OF MALTA we have "ORIENT pearl."]

[Footnote 63: Soria] See note ?, p. 44.  [i.e. note 13.]]

[Footnote 64: thereof] So the 8vo.--The 4to "heereof."]

[Footnote 65: that we vow] i.e. that which we vow.  So the 8vo.--The 4to
"WHAT we vow."  Neither of the modern editors understanding the
passage, they printed "WE THAT vow."]

[Footnote 66: faiths] So the 8vo.--The 4to "fame."]

[Footnote 67: and religion] Old eds. "and THEIR religion."]

[Footnote 68: consummate] Old eds. "consinuate."  The modern editors
print "continuate," a word which occurs in Shakespeare's
TIMON OF ATHENS, act i. sc. 1., but which the metre determines
to be inadmissible in the present passage.--The Revd. J. Mitford
proposes "continent," in the sense of--restraining from
violence.]

[Footnote 69: this] So the 8vo.--The 4to "the."]

[Footnote 70: martial] So the 4to.--The 8vo "materiall."]

[Footnote 71: our] So the 4to.--The 8vo "your."]

[Footnote 72: With] So the 4to.--The 8vo "Which."]

[Footnote 73: thy servant's] He means Sigismund.  So a few lines after,
"this traitor's perjury."]

[Footnote 74: discomfit] Old eds. "discomfort." (Compare the first line
of the next scene.)]

[Footnote 75: lords] So the 8vo.--The 4to "lord."]

[Footnote 76: Christian] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Christians."]

[Footnote 77: Zoacum] "Or ZAKKUM.--The description of this tree is taken
from a fable in the Koran, chap. 37."  Ed. 1826.]

[Footnote 78: an] So the 8vo.--The 4to "any."]

[Footnote 79: We will both watch and ward shall keep his trunk]
i.e. We will that both watch, &c.  So the 4to.--The 8vo has
"AND keepe."]

[Footnote 80: Uribassa, give] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Vribassa, AND giue."]

[Footnote 81: Soria] See note ?, p. 44.  [i.e. note 13.]]

[Footnote 82: their] So the 4to.--Not in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 83: brows] Old eds. "bowers."]

[Footnote 84: this] So the 8vo.--The 4to "the."]

[Footnote 85: no] So the 4to.--The 8vo "not."]

[Footnote 86: and] So the 4to.--The 8vo "a."]

[Footnote 87: makes] So the 4to.--The 8vo "make."]

[Footnote 88: author] So the 4to.--The 8vo "anchor."]

[Footnote 89: yes] Old eds. "yet."]

[Footnote 90: excellence] So the 4to.--The 8vo "excellency."]

[Footnote 91: cavalieros] i.e. mounds, or elevations of earth, to
lodge cannon.]

[Footnote 92: prevails] i.e. avails.]

[Footnote 93: Mausolus'] Wrong quantity.]

[Footnote 94: one] So the 8vo ("on").--The 4to "our."]

[Footnote 95: stature] See note |||, p. 27.--So the 8vo.--The 4to "statue."
Here the metre would be assisted by reading "statua," which is
frequently found in our early writers:  see my REMARKS ON
MR. COLLIER'S AND MR. KNIGHT'S EDITIONS OF SHAKESPEARE, p. 186.

    [note |||, from p. 27.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

    "stature] So the 8vo.--The 4to "statue:" but again, in the
     SECOND PART of this play, act ii. sc. 4, we have, according
     to the 8vo--

       "And here will I set up her STATURE."

     and, among many passages that might be cited from our
     early authors, compare the following;

       "The STATURES huge, of Porphyrie and costlier matters
             made."
          Warner's ALBIONS ENGLAND, p. 303. ed. 1596.

       "By them shal Isis STATURE gently stand."
          Chapman's BLIND BEGGER OF ALEXANDRIA, 1598, sig. A 3.

       "Was not Anubis with his long nose of gold preferred
        before Neptune, whose STATURE was but brasse?"
          Lyly's MIDAS, sig. A 2. ed. 1592."]

[Footnote 96: Soria] See note ?, p. 44.  [i.e. note 13.]]

[Footnote 97: fate] So the 8vo.--The 4to "fates."]

[Footnote 98: his] Old eds. "our."]

[Footnote 99: all] So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 100: honours] So the 8vo.--The 4to "honour."]

[Footnote 101: in conquest] So the 4to.--The 8vo "in THE conquest."]

[Footnote 102: Judaea] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Juda."]

[Footnote 103: Sclavonia's] Old eds. "Scalonians" and "Sclauonians."]

[Footnote 104: Soria] See note ?, p. 44.  (i.e. note 13.]

[Footnote 105: Damascus] Here the old eds. "Damasco."  See note *,
p. 31.

    note *, from p. 31.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

    "Damascus] Both the old eds. here "Damasco:" but in many
     other places they agree in reading "Damascus.""]

[Footnote 106: That's no matter, &c.] So previously (p. 46, first col.)
Almeda speaks in prose, "I like that well," &c.

    [p. 46, first col.  (This play):

    "ALMEDA.  I like that well:  but, tell me, my lord,
     if I should let you go, would you be as good as
     your word? shall I be made a king for my labour?"]

[Footnote 107: dearth] Old eds. "death."]

[Footnote 108: th'] So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 109: Those] Old eds. "Whose."]

[Footnote 110: sorrows] So the 8vo.--The 4to "sorrow."]

[Footnote 111: thirst] So the 4to.--The 8vo "colde."]

[Footnote 112: champion] i.e. champaign.]

[Footnote 113: which] Old eds. "with."]

[Footnote 114: Whereas] i.e. Where.]

[Footnote 115: the] So the 8vo.--The 4to "and."]

[Footnote 116: cavalieros] See note ?, p. 52.  [i.e. note 91.]]

[Footnote 117: argins] "Argine, Ital.  An embankment, a rampart.["]
Ed., 1826.]

[Footnote 118: great] So the 8vo.--The 4to "greatst."]

[Footnote 119: the] Old eds. "their."]

[Footnote 120: by nature] So the 8vo.--The 4to "by THE nature."]

[Footnote 121: a] So the 4to.--The 8vo "the."]

[Footnote 122: A ring of pikes, mingled with shot and horse] Qy. "foot"
instead of "shot"? (but the "ring of pikes" is "foot").--The
Revd. J. Mitford proposes to read, "A ring of pikes AND HORSE,
MANGLED with shot."]

[Footnote 123: his] So the 8vo--The 4to "this."]

[Footnote 124: march'd] So the 4to.--The 8vo "martch."]

[Footnote 125: drop] So the 8vo.--The 4to "dram."]

[Footnote 126: lance] So the 4to.--Here the 8vo "lanch":  but afterwards
more than once it has "lance."]

[Footnote 127: I know not, &c.] This and the next four speeches are
evidently prose, as are several other portions of the play.]

[Footnote 128: 'Tis] So the 4to.--The 8vo "This."]

[Footnote 129: accursed] So the 4to.--The 8vo "cursed."]

[Footnote 130: his] So the 4to.--The 8vo "the."]

[Footnote 131: point] So the 8vo.--The 4to "port."]

[Footnote 132: Soria] See note ?, p. 44.  [i.e. note 13.]]

[Footnote 133: Minions, falc'nets, and sakers] "All small pieces of
ordnance."  Ed. 1826.]

[Footnote 134: hold] Old eds. "gold" and "golde."]

[Footnote 135: quietly] So the 8vo.--The 4to "quickely."]

[Footnote 136: friends] So the 4to.--The 8vo "friend."]

[Footnote 137: you] So the 4to.--The 8vo "thou."]

[Footnote 138: pioners] See note ||, p. 20.

    [note ||, from p. 20.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

    "pioners] The usual spelling of the word in our early
     writers (in Shakespeare, for instance)."]

[Footnote 139: in] So the 8vo.--The 4to "to."]

[Footnote 140: argins] See note ?[sic], p. 55.  [note ?? p. 55,
i.e. note 117.]]

[Footnote 141: quietly] So the 8vo.--The 4to "quickely."]

[Footnote 142: Were you, that are the friends of Tamburlaine] So the 8vo.
--The 4to "Were ALL you that are friends of Tamburlaine."]

[Footnote 143: of] So the 8vo.--The 4to "to."]

[Footnote 144: all convoys that can] i.e. (I believe) all convoys
(conveyances) that can be cut off.  The modern editors alter
"can" to "come."]

[Footnote 145: I am] So the 8vo.--The 4to "am I."]

[Footnote 146: into] So the 8vo.--The 4to "vnto."]

[Footnote 147: hold] So the 4to.--The 8vo "holdS."]

[Footnote 148: straineth] So the 4to.--The 8vo "staineth."]

[Footnote 149: home] So the 8vo.--The 4to "haue."]

[Footnote 150: wert] So the 8vo.--The 4to "art."]

[Footnote 151: join'd] So the 4to.--The 8vo "inioin'd."]

[Footnote 152: of] So the 8vo.--The 4to "in."]

[Footnote 153: the] Added perhaps by a mistake of the transcriber
or printer.]

[Footnote 154: and] So the 8vo.--The 4to "the."]

[Footnote 155: Renowmed] See note ||, p. 11.  So the 8vo.--The 4to
"Renowned."

    [Note ||, from p. 11.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great).

    "renowmed] i.e. renowned.--So the 8vo.--The 4to "renowned."
     --The form "RENOWMED" (Fr. renomme) occurs repeatedly
     afterwards in this play, according to the 8vo.  It is
     occasionally found in writers posterior to Marlowe's time.
     e.g.

      "Of Constantines great towne RENOUM'D in vaine."
         Verses to King James, prefixed to Lord Stirling's
         MONARCHICKE TRAGEDIES, ed. 1607."]

[Footnote 156: emperor, mighty] So the 8vo.--The 4to "emperour,
AND mightie."]

[Footnote 157: the] So the 4to.--The 8vo "this."]

[Footnote 158: your] So the 8vo.--The 4to "our."]

[Footnote 159: term'd] Old eds. "terme."]

[Footnote 160: the] So the 4to.--Omitted in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 161: your] So the 8vo.--The 4to "our."]

[Footnote 162:  brandishing their] So the 4to.--The 8vo "brandishing
IN their."]

[Footnote 163: with] So the 4to.--Omitted in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 164: shew'd your] So the 8vo.--The 4to "shewed TO your."]

[Footnote 165: Sorians] See note ?, p. 44.  [i.e. note 13.]

[Footnote 166: repair'd] So the 8vo.--The 4to "prepar'd."]

[Footnote 167: And neighbour cities of your highness' land] So the 8vo.--
Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 168: he] i.e. Death.  So the 8vo.--The 4to "it."]

[Footnote 169: is] So the 8vo.--The 4to "the."]

[Footnote 170: harness'd] So the 8vo.--The 4to "harnesse."]

[Footnote 171: on] So the 4to.--The 8vo "with" (the compositor having
caught the word from the preceding line).]

[Footnote 172: thou shalt] So the 8vo.--The 4to "shalt thou."]

[Footnote 173: the] So the 8vo.--The 4to "our."]

[Footnote 174: and rent] So the 8vo.--The 4to "or rend."]

[Footnote 175: Go to, sirrah] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Goe sirrha."]

[Footnote 176: give arms] An heraldic expression, meaning--shew armorial
bearings (used, of course, with a quibble).]

[Footnote 177: No] So the 4to.--The 8vo "Go."]

[Footnote 178: bugs] i.e. bugbears, objects to strike you with terror.]

[Footnote 179: rout] i.e. crew, rabble.]

[Footnote 180: as the foolish king of Persia did] See p. 16, first col.

     p. 15, first col.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great, ACT II, Scene IV):

    "  SCENE IV.

       Enter MYCETES with his crown in his hand.

     MYCETES. Accurs'd be he that first invented war!
     They knew not, ah, they knew not, simple men,
     How those were hit by pelting cannon-shot
     Stand staggering like a quivering aspen-leaf
     Fearing the force of Boreas' boisterous blasts!

     (page 16)

     In what a lamentable case were I,
     If nature had not given me wisdom's lore!
     For kings are clouts that every man shoots at,
     Our crown the pin that thousands seek to cleave:
     Therefore in policy I think it good
     To hide it close; a goodly stratagem,
     And far from any man that is a fool:
     So shall not I be known; or if I be,
     They cannot take away my crown from me.
     Here will I hide it in this simple hole.

       Enter TAMBURLAINE.

     TAMBURLAINE.
     What, fearful coward, straggling from the camp,
     When kings themselves are present in the field?"]

[Footnote 181: aspect] So the 8vo.--The 4to "aspects."]

[Footnote 182: sits asleep] At the back of the stage, which was supposed
to represent the interior of the tent.]

[Footnote 183: You cannot] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Can you not."]

[Footnote 184: scare] So the 8vo.--The 4to "scarce."]

[Footnote 185: tall] i.e. bold, brave.]

[Footnote 186: both you] So the 8vo.--The 4to "you both."]

[Footnote 187: should I] So the 8vo.--The 4to "I should."]

[Footnote 188: ye] So the 8vo.--The 4to "my."]

[Footnote 189: stoop your pride] i.e. make your pride to stoop.]

[Footnote 190: bodies] So the 8vo.--The 4to "glories."]

[Footnote 191: mine] So the 4to.--The 8vo "my."]

[Footnote 192: may] So the 4to.--The 8vo "nay."]

[Footnote 193: up] The modern editors alter this word to "by," not
understanding the passage.  Tamburlaine means--Do not KNEEL
to me for his pardon.]

[Footnote 194: once] So the 4to.--The 8vo "one."]

[Footnote 195: martial] So the 8vo.--The 4to "materiall."  (In this
line "fire" is a dissyllable")]

[Footnote 196: thine] So the 8vo.--The 4to "thy."]

[Footnote 197: which] Old eds. "with."]

[Footnote 198: Jaertis'] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Laertis."  By "Jaertis'"
must be meant--Jaxartes'.]

[Footnote 199: incorporeal] So the 8vo.--The 4to "incorporall."]

[Footnote 200: for being seen] i.e. "that thou mayest not be seen."
Ed. 1826.  See Richardson's DICT. in v. FOR.]

[Footnote 201: you shall] So the 8vo.--The 4to "shall ye."]

[Footnote 202: Approve] i.e. prove, experience.]

[Footnote 203: bloods] So the 4to.--The 8vo "blood."]

[Footnote 204: peasants] So the 8vo.--The 4to "parsants."]

[Footnote 205: resist in] Old eds "resisting."]

[Footnote 206: Casane] So the 4to.--The 8vo "VSUM Casane."]

[Footnote 207: it] So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 208: Excel] Old eds. "Expell" and "Expel."]

[Footnote 209: artier] See note *, p. 18.

    Note *, from p. 18.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

    "Artier] i.e. artery.  This form occurs again in the SEC.
     PART of the present play:  so too in a copy of verses by
     Day;

       "Hid in the vaines and ARTIERS of the earthe."
         SHAKESPEARE SOC. PAPERS, vol. i. 19.

     The word indeed was variously written of old:

       "The ARTER strynge is the conduyt of the lyfe spiryte."
         Hormanni VULGARIA, sig. G iii. ed. 1530.

       "Riche treasures serue for th'ARTERS of the war."
         Lord Stirling's DARIUS, act ii. Sig. C 2. ed. 1604.

       "Onelye the extrauagant ARTIRE of my arme is brused."
         EVERIE WOMAN IN HER HUMOR, 1609, sig. D 4.

       "And from the veines some bloud each ARTIRE draines."
         Davies's MICROCOSMOS, 1611, p. 56."]

[Footnote 210: remorseful] i.e. compassionate.]

[Footnote 211: miss] i.e. loss, want.  The construction is--Run round
about, mourning the miss of the females.]

[Footnote 212: behold] Qy "beheld"?]

[Footnote 213: a] So the 4to.--The 8vo "the."]

[Footnote 214: Have] Old eds. "Hath."]

[Footnote 215: to] So the 8vo.--The 4to "and."]

[Footnote 216: in] So the 8vo.--The 4to "to."]

[Footnote 217: now, my lord; and, will you] So the 8vo.--The 4to
"GOOD my Lord, IF YOU WILL."]

[Footnote 218: mouths] So the 4to.--The 8vo "mother."]

[Footnote 219: rebated] i.e. blunted.]

[Footnote 220: thereof] So the 8vo.--The 4to "heereof."]

[Footnote 221: and will] So the 4to.--The 8vo "and I wil."]

[Footnote 222: She anoints her throat] This incident, as Mr. Collier
observes (HIST. OF ENG. DRAM. POET., iii. 119) is borrowed
from Ariosto's ORLANDO FURIOSO, B. xxix, "where Isabella,
to save herself from the lawless passion of Rodomont, anoints
her neck with a decoction of herbs, which she pretends will
render it invulnerable:  she then presents her throat to the
Pagan, who, believing her assertion, aims a blow and strikes
off her head."]

[Footnote 223: my] Altered by the modern editors to "thy,"--unnecessarily.]

[Footnote 224: Elysium] Old eds. "Elisian" and "Elizian."]

[Footnote 225: do borrow] So the 4to.--The 8vo "borow doo."]

[Footnote 226: my] So the 4to (Theridamas is King of Argier).--The 8vo
"thy."]

[Footnote 227: Soria] See note ?, p. 44.  [i.e. note 13.]]

[Footnote 228: his] So the 4to.--The 8vo "their."]

[Footnote 229: led by five] So the 4to.--The 8vo "led by WITH fiue."]

[Footnote 230: Holla, ye pamper'd jades of Asia, &c.] The ridicule
showered on this passage by a long series of poets, will
be found noticed in the ACCOUNT OF MARLOWE AND HIS WRITINGS.

    The "Account of Marlowe and His Writings," is the
     introduction to this book of "The Works of Christopher
     Marlowe."  That is, the book from which this play has been
     transcribed.  The following is a footnote from page xvii
     of that introduction.

    "Tamb. Holla, ye pamper'd jades of Asia!" &c.
     p. 64, sec. col.

     This has been quoted or alluded to, generally with ridicule,
     by a whole host of writers.  Pistol's "hollow pamper'd jades
     of Asia" in Shakespeare's HENRY IV. P. II. Act ii. sc. 4,
     is known to most readers:  see also Beaumont and Fletcher's
     COXCOMB, act ii. sc. 2; Fletcher's WOMEN PLEASED, act iv.
     sc. 1; Chapman's, Jonson's, and Marston's EASTWARD HO,
     act ii. sig. B 3, ed. 1605; Brathwait's STRAPPADO FOR THE
     DIUELL, 1615, p. 159; Taylor the water-poet's THIEFE and
     his WORLD RUNNES ON WHEELES,--WORKES, pp. 111[121], 239,
     ed. 1630; A BROWN DOZEN OF DRUNKARDS, &c. 1648, sig. A 3;
     the Duke of Newcastle's VARIETIE, A COMEDY, 1649, p. 72;
     --but I cannot afford room for more references.--In 1566
     a similar spectacle had been exhibited at Gray's Inn:
     there the Dumb Show before the first act of Gascoigne and
     Kinwelmersh's JOCASTA introduced "a king with an imperiall
     crowne vpon hys head," &c. "sitting in a chariote very
     richly furnished, drawen in by iiii kings in their dublets
     and hosen, with crownes also vpon theyr heads, representing
     vnto vs ambition by the historie of Sesostres," &c.]

[Footnote 231: And blow the morning from their nostrils] Here "nostrils"
is to be read as a trisyllable,--and indeed is spelt in the 4to
"nosterils."--Mr. Collier (HIST. OF ENG. DRAM. POET., iii. 124)
remarks that this has been borrowed from Marlowe by the anonymous
author of the tragedy of CAESAR AND POMPEY, 1607 (and he might
have compared also Chapman's HYMNUS IN CYNTHIAM,--THE SHADOW
OF NIGHT, &c. 1594, sig. D 3):  but, after all, it is only
a translation;

    "cum primum alto se gurgite tollunt
     Solis equi, LUCEMQUE ELATIS NARIBUS EFFLANT."
          AEN. xii. 114]

(Virgil being indebted to Ennius and Lucilius).]

[Footnote 232: in] So the 8vo.--The 4to "as."]

[Footnote 233: racking] i.e. moving like smoke or vapour:  see
Richardson's DICT. in v.]

[Footnote 234: have coach] So the 8vo.--The 4to "haue A coach."]

[Footnote 235: by] So the 4to.--The 8vo "with."]

[Footnote 236: garden-plot] So the 4to.--The 8vo "GARDED plot."]

[Footnote 237: colts] i.e. (with a quibble) colts'-teeth.]

[Footnote 238: same] So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 239: match] So the 8vo.--The 4to "march."]

[Footnote 240: Above] So the 8vo.--The 4to "About."]

[Footnote 241: tall] i.e. bold, brave.]

[Footnote 242: their] So the 4to.--Omitted in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 243: continent] Old eds. "content."]

[Footnote 244: jest] A quibble--which will be understood by those
readers who recollect the double sense of JAPE (jest) in our
earliest writers.]

[Footnote 245: prest] i.e. ready.]

[Footnote 246: Terrene] i.e. Mediterranean.]

[Footnote 247: all] So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 248: Jaertis'] See note **, p. 62.  [i.e. note 198.]  So the
8vo.--The 4to "Laertes."]

[Footnote 249: furthest] So the 4to.--The 8vo "furthiest."]

[Footnote 250: Thorough] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Through."]

[Footnote 251: Like to an almond-tree, &c.] This simile in borrowed
from Spenser's FAERIE QUEENE, B. i. C. vii. st. 32;

    "Upon the top of all his loftie crest,
     A bounch of heares discolourd diversly,
     With sprincled pearle and gold full richly drest,
     Did shake, and seemd to daunce for iollity;
     Like to an almond tree ymounted hye
     On top of greene Selinis all alone,
     With blossoms brave bedecked daintily;
     Whose tender locks do tremble every one
     At everie little breath that under heaven is blowne."

The first three books of THE FAERIE QUEENE were originally
printed in 1590, the year in which the present play was first
given to the press:  but Spenser's poem, according to the
fashion of the times, had doubtless been circulated in
manuscript, and had obtained many readers, before its
publication.  In Abraham Fraunce's ARCADIAN RHETORIKE, 1588,
some lines of the Second Book of THE FAERIE QUEENE are
accurately cited.  And see my Acc. of Peele and his Writings,
p. xxxiv, WORKS, ed. 1829.]

[Footnote 252: y-mounted] So both the old eds.--The modern editors print
"mounted"; and the Editor of 1826 even remarks in a note, that
the dramatist, "finding in the fifth line of Spenser's stanza
the word 'y-mounted,' and, probably considering it to be too
obsolete for the stage, dropped the initial letter, leaving only
nine syllables and an unrythmical line"! ! !  In the FIRST PART
of this play (p. 23, first col.) we have,--

    "Their limbs more large and of a bigger size
     Than all the brats Y-SPRUNG from Typhon's loins:"

but we need not wonder that the Editor just cited did not
recollect the passage, for he had printed, like his predecessor,
"ERE sprung."]

[Footnote 253: ever-green Selinus] Old eds. "EUERY greene Selinus"
and "EUERIE greene," &c.--I may notice that one of the modern
editors silently alters "Selinus" to (Spenser's) "Selinis;"
but, in fact, the former is the correct spelling.]

[Footnote 254: Erycina's] Old eds. "Hericinas."]

[Footnote 255: brows] So the 4to.--The 8vo "bowes."]

[Footnote 256: breath that thorough heaven] So the 8vo.--The 4to "breath
FROM heauen."]

[Footnote 257: chariot] Old eds. "chariots."]

[Footnote 258: out] Old eds. "our."]

[Footnote 259: respect'st thou] Old eds. "RESPECTS thou:" but afterwards,
in this scene, the 8vo has, "Why SEND'ST thou not," and "thou
SIT'ST."]

[Footnote 260: of] So the 8vo.--The 4to "in."]

[Footnote 261: he] So the 4to.--The 8vo "was."]

[Footnote 262: How, &c.] A mutilated line.]

[Footnote 263: eterniz'd] So the 4to.--The 8vo "enternisde."]

[Footnote 264: and] So the 4to.--Omitted in the 8vo.]

[Footnote 265: prest] i.e. ready.]

[Footnote 266: parle] Here the old eds. "parlie":  but repeatedly before
they have "parle" (which is used more than once by Shakespeare).]

[Footnote 267: Orcanes, king of Natolia, and the King of Jerusalem,
led by soldiers] Old eds. (which have here a very imperfect
stage-direction) "the two spare kings",--"spare" meaning--
not then wanted to draw the chariot of Tamburlaine.]

[Footnote 268: burst] i.e. broken, bruised.]

[Footnote 269: the measures] i.e. the dance (properly,--solemn,
stately dances, with slow and measured steps).]

[Footnote 270: of] So the 8vo.--The 4to "for."]

[Footnote 271: ports] i.e. gates.]

[Footnote 272: make] So the 4to.--The 8vo "wake."]

[Footnote 273: the city-walls) So the 8vo.--The 4to "the walles."]

[Footnote 274: him] So the 4to.--The 8vo "it."]

[Footnote 275: in] Old eds. "VP in,["]--the "vp" having been repeated
by mistake from the preceding line.]

[Footnote 276: scar'd] So the 8vo; and, it would seem, rightly;
Tamburlaine making an attempt at a bitter jest, in reply
to what the Governor has just said.--The 4to "sear'd."]

[Footnote 277: Vile] The 8vo "Vild"; the 4to "Wild" (Both eds.,
a little before, have "VILE monster, born of some infernal hag",
and, a few lines after, "To VILE and ignominious servitude":--
the fact is, our early writers (or rather, transcribers),
with their usual inconsistency of spelling, give now the one
form, and now the other:  compare the folio SHAKESPEARE,
1623, where we sometimes find "vild" and sometimes "VILE.")]

[Footnote 278: Bagdet's] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Badgets."]

[Footnote 279: A citadel, &c.] Something has dropt out from this line.]

[Footnote 280: Well said] Equivalent to--Well done! as appears from
innumerable passages of our early writers:  see, for instances,
my ed. of Beaumont and Fletcher's WORKS, vol. i. 328, vol. ii.
445, vol. viii. 254.]

[Footnote 281: will I] So the 8vo.--The 4to "I will."]

[Footnote 282: suffer'st] Old eds. "suffers":  but see the two following
notes.]

[Footnote 283: send'st] So the 8vo.--The 4to "sends."]

[Footnote 284: sit'st] So the 8vo.--The 4to "sits."]

[Footnote 285: head] So the 8vo.--The 4to "blood."]

[Footnote 286: fed] Old eds. "feede."]

[Footnote 287: upon] So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 288: fleet] i.e. float.]

[Footnote 289: gape] So the 8vo.--The 4to "gaspe."]

[Footnote 290: in] So the 8vo.--Omitted in the 4to.]

[Footnote 291: forth, ye vassals] Spoken, of course, to the two kings
who draw his chariot.]

[Footnote 292: whatsoe'er] So the 8vo.--The 4to "whatsoeuer."]

[Footnote 293: Euphrates] See note |||, p. 36.]

     note |||, from p. 36.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

    "Euphrates] So our old poets invariably, I believe,
     accentuate this word."

     Note:  'Euphrates' was printed with no accented characters
     at all.]

[Footnote 294: may we] So the 8vo.--The 4to "we may."]

[Footnote 295: this] So the 8vo.--The 4to "that" (but in the next speech
of the same person it has "THIS Tamburlaine").]

[Footnote 296: record] i.e. call to mind.]

[Footnote 297: Aid] So the 8vo.--The 4to "And."]

[Footnote 298: Renowmed] See note ||, p. 11.  So the 8vo.--The 4to
"Renowned."--The prefix to this speech is wanting in the old eds.

    [note ||, from p. 11.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

    "renowmed] i.e. renowned.--So the 8vo.--The 4to "renowned."
     --The form "RENOWMED" (Fr. renomme) occurs repeatedly
     afterwards in this play, according to the 8vo.  It is
     occasionally found in writers posterior to Marlowe's time.
     e.g.

      "Of Constantines great towne RENOUM'D in vaine."
         Verses to King James, prefixed to Lord Stirling's
         MONARCHICKE TRAGEDIES, ed. 1607."]

[Footnote 299: invisibly] So the 4to.--The 8vo "inuincible."]

[Footnote 300: inexcellence] So the 4to.--The 8vo "inexcellencie."]

[Footnote 301: Enter Tamburlaine, &c.] Here the old eds. have no stage-
direction; and perhaps the poet intended that Tamburlaine should
enter at the commencement of this scene.  That he is drawn in his
chariot by the two captive kings, appears from his exclamation
at p. 72, first col. "Draw, you slaves!"]

[Footnote 302: cease] So the 8vo.--The 4to "case."]

[Footnote 303: hypostasis] Old eds. "Hipostates."]

[Footnote 304: artiers] See note *, p. 18.

    [Note *, from p. 18.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

    "Artier] i.e. artery.  This form occurs again in the SEC.
     PART of the present play:  so too in a copy of verses by
     Day;

       "Hid in the vaines and ARTIERS of the earthe."
         SHAKESPEARE SOC. PAPERS, vol. i. 19.

     The word indeed was variously written of old:

       "The ARTER strynge is the conduyt of the lyfe spiryte."
         Hormanni VULGARIA, sig. G iii. ed. 1530.

       "Riche treasures serue for th'ARTERS of the war."
         Lord Stirling's DARIUS, act ii. Sig. C 2. ed. 1604.

       "Onelye the extrauagant ARTIRE of my arme is brused."
         EVERIE WOMAN IN HER HUMOR, 1609, sig. D 4.

       "And from the veines some bloud each ARTIRE draines."
         Davies's MICROCOSMOS, 1611, p. 56."]

[Footnote 305: upon] So the 4to.--The 8vo "on."]

[Footnote 306: villain cowards] Old eds. "VILLAINES, cowards" (which
is not to be defended by "VILLAINS, COWARDS, traitors to our
state", p. 67, sec. col.).  Compare "But where's this COWARD
VILLAIN," &c., p. 61 sec. col.]

[Footnote 307: unto] So the 8vo.--The 4to "to."]

[Footnote 308: Whereas] i.e. Where.]

[Footnote 309: Terrene] i.e. Mediterranean.]

[Footnote 310: began] So the 8vo.--The 4to "begun."]

[Footnote 311: this] So the 8vo.--The 4to "the."]

[Footnote 312: subjects] Mr. Collier (Preface to COLERIDGE'S SEVEN
LECTURES ON SHAKESPEARE AND MILTON, p. cxviii) says that here
"subjects" is a printer's blunder for "substance":  YET HE TAKES
NO NOTICE OF TAMBURLAINE'S NEXT WORDS, "But, sons, this SUBJECT
not of force enough," &c.--The old eds. are quite right in both
passages:  compare, in p. 62, first col.;

    "A form not meet to give that SUBJECT essence
     Whose matter is the flesh of Tamburlaine," &c.]

[Footnote 313: into] So the 8vo.--The 4to "vnto."]

[Footnote 314: your seeds] So the 8vo.--The 4to "OUR seedes." (In p. 18,
first col., [The First Part of Tamburlaine the Great] we have
had "Their angry SEEDS"; but in p. 47, first col., [this play]
"thy seed":--and Marlowe probably wrote "seed" both here and in
p. 18.)]

[Footnote 315: lineaments] So the 8vo.--The 4to "laments."--The Editor
of 1826 remarks, that this passage "is too obscure for ordinary
comprehension."]

[Footnote 316: these] So the 4to.--The 8vo "those."]

[Footnote 317: these] So the 4to.--The 8vo "those."]

[Footnote 318: damned] i.e. doomed,--sorrowful.]

[Footnote 319: Clymene's] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Clymeus."]

[Footnote 320: Phoebe's] So the 8vo.--The 4to "Phoebus."]

[Footnote 321: Phyteus'] Meant perhaps for "Pythius'", according to the
usage of much earlier poets:

    "And of PHYTON[i.e. Python] that Phebus made thus fine
     Came Phetonysses," &c.
          Lydgate's WARRES OF TROY, B. ii. SIG. K vi. ed.
          1555.]

Here the modern editors print "Phoebus'".]

[Footnote 322: thee] So the 8vo.--The 4to "me."]

[Footnote 323: cliffs] Here the old eds. "clifts" and "cliftes":
but see p. 12, line 5, first col.

    [p. 12, first col.  (The First Part of Tamburlaine the
     Great):

    "Both we will walk upon the lofty cliffs;*

    * cliffs: So the 8vo.--The 4to "cliftes."]


Produced by Gary R. Young

THE JEW OF MALTA.

By Christopher Marlowe

Edited By The Rev. Alexander Dyce.

The Famous Tragedy of The Rich Iew of Malta.  As it was playd before the
King and Qveene, in His Majesties Theatre at White-Hall, by her
Majesties Servants at the Cock-pit.  Written by Christopher Marlo.
London; Printed by I. B. for Nicholas Vavasour, and are to be sold at
his Shop in the Inner-Temple, neere the Church.  1633.  4to.

TO MY WORTHY FRIEND, MASTER THOMAS HAMMON, of GRAY'S INN, ETC.

This play, composed by so worthy an author as Master Marlowe, and the
part of the Jew presented by so unimitable an actor as Master Alleyn,
being in this later age commended to the stage; as I ushered it unto the
court, and presented it to the Cock-pit, with these Prologues and
Epilogues here inserted, so now being newly brought to the press, I was
loath it should be published without the ornament of an Epistle; making
choice of you unto whom to devote it; than whom (of all those gentlemen
and acquaintance within the compass of my long knowledge) there is none
more able to tax ignorance, or attribute right to merit. Sir, you have
been pleased to grace some of mine own works [1] with your courteous
patronage:  I hope this will not be the worse accepted, because
commended by me; over whom none can claim more power or privilege than
yourself.  I had no better a new-year's gift to present you with;
receive it therefore as a continuance of that inviolable obligement, by
which he rests still engaged, who, as he ever hath, shall always remain,

     Tuissimus,
          Tho. Heywood. [2]

THE PROLOGUE SPOKEN AT COURT.

     Gracious and great, that we so boldly dare
     ('Mongst other plays that now in fashion are)
     To present this, writ many years agone,
     And in that age thought second unto none,
     We humbly crave your pardon.  We pursue
     The story of a rich and famous Jew
     Who liv'd in Malta:  you shall find him still,
     In all his projects, a sound Machiavill;
     And that's his character.  He that hath past
     So many censures [3] is now come at last
     To have your princely ears:  grace you him; then
     You crown the action, and renown the pen.

EPILOGUE SPOKEN AT COURT.

     It is our fear, dread sovereign, we have bin [4]
     Too tedious; neither can't be less than sin
     To wrong your princely patience:  if we have,
     Thus low dejected, we your pardon crave;
     And, if aught here offend your ear or sight,
     We only act and speak what others write.

THE PROLOGUE TO THE STAGE, AT THE COCK-PIT.

     We know not how our play may pass this stage,
     But by the best of poets [5] in that age
     THE MALTA-JEW had being and was made;
     And he then by the best of actors [6] play'd:
     In HERO AND LEANDER [7] one did gain
     A lasting memory; in Tamburlaine,
     This Jew, with others many, th' other wan
     The attribute of peerless, being a man
     Whom we may rank with (doing no one wrong)
     Proteus for shapes, and Roscius for a tongue,--
     So could he speak, so vary; nor is't hate
     To merit in him [8] who doth personate
     Our Jew this day; nor is it his ambition
     To exceed or equal, being of condition
     More modest:  this is all that he intends,
     (And that too at the urgence of some friends,)
     To prove his best, and, if none here gainsay it,
     The part he hath studied, and intends to play it.

EPILOGUE TO THE STAGE, AT THE COCK-PIT.

     In graving with Pygmalion to contend,
     Or painting with Apelles, doubtless the end
     Must be disgrace:  our actor did not so,--
     He only aim'd to go, but not out-go.
     Nor think that this day any prize was play'd; [9]
     Here were no bets at all, no wagers laid: [10]
     All the ambition that his mind doth swell,
     Is but to hear from you (by me) 'twas well.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE.

     FERNEZE, governor of Malta.
     LODOWICK, his son.
     SELIM CALYMATH, son to the Grand Seignior.
     MARTIN DEL BOSCO, vice-admiral of Spain.
     MATHIAS, a gentleman.
     JACOMO,     |
     BARNARDINE, | friars.
     BARABAS, a wealthy Jew.
     ITHAMORE, a slave.
     PILIA-BORZA, a bully, attendant to BELLAMIRA.
     Two Merchants.
     Three Jews.
     Knights, Bassoes, Officers, Guard, Slaves, Messenger,
          and Carpenters

     KATHARINE, mother to MATHIAS.
     ABIGAIL, daughter to BARABAS.
     BELLAMIRA, a courtezan.
     Abbess.
     Nun.

     MACHIAVEL as Prologue speaker.

          Scene, Malta.

THE JEW OF MALTA.

          Enter MACHIAVEL.

     MACHIAVEL. Albeit the world think Machiavel is dead,
     Yet was his soul but flown beyond the Alps;
     And, now the Guise [11] is dead, is come from France,
     To view this land, and frolic with his friends.
     To some perhaps my name is odious;
     But such as love me, guard me from their tongues,
     And let them know that I am Machiavel,
     And weigh not men, and therefore not men's words.
     Admir'd I am of those that hate me most:
     Though some speak openly against my books,
     Yet will they read me, and thereby attain
     To Peter's chair; and, when they cast me off,
     Are poison'd by my climbing followers.
     I count religion but a childish toy,
     And hold there is no sin but ignorance.
     Birds of the air will tell of murders past!
     I am asham'd to hear such fooleries.
     Many will talk of title to a crown:
     What right had Caesar to the empery? [12]
     Might first made kings, and laws were then most sure
     When, like the Draco's, [13] they were writ in blood.
     Hence comes it that a strong-built citadel
     Commands much more than letters can import:
     Which maxim had [14] Phalaris observ'd,
     H'ad never bellow'd, in a brazen bull,
     Of great ones' envy:  o' the poor petty wights
     Let me be envied and not pitied.
     But whither am I bound?  I come not, I,
     To read a lecture here [15] in Britain,
     But to present the tragedy of a Jew,
     Who smiles to see how full his bags are cramm'd;
     Which money was not got without my means.
     I crave but this,--grace him as he deserves,
     And let him not be entertain'd the worse
     Because he favours me.
          [Exit.]

ACT I. [16]

          BARABAS discovered in his counting-house, with heaps
          of gold before him.

     BARABAS. So that of thus much that return was made;
     And of the third part of the Persian ships
     There was the venture summ'd and satisfied.
     As for those Samnites, [17] and the men of Uz,
     That bought my Spanish oils and wines of Greece,
     Here have I purs'd their paltry silverlings. [18]
     Fie, what a trouble 'tis to count this trash!
     Well fare the Arabians, who so richly pay
     The things they traffic for with wedge of gold,
     Whereof a man may easily in a day
     Tell [19] that which may maintain him all his life.
     The needy groom, that never finger'd groat,
     Would make a miracle of thus much coin;
     But he whose steel-barr'd coffers are cramm'd full,
     And all his life-time hath been tired,
     Wearying his fingers' ends with telling it,
     Would in his age be loath to labour so,
     And for a pound to sweat himself to death.
     Give me the merchants of the Indian mines,
     That trade in metal of the purest mould;
     The wealthy Moor, that in the eastern rocks
     Without control can pick his riches up,
     And in his house heap pearl like pebble-stones,
     Receive them free, and sell them by the weight;
     Bags of fiery opals, sapphires, amethysts,
     Jacinths, hard topaz, grass-green emeralds,
     Beauteous rubies, sparkling diamonds,
     And seld-seen [20] costly stones of so great price,
     As one of them, indifferently rated,
     And of a carat of this quantity,
     May serve, in peril of calamity,
     To ransom great kings from captivity.
     This is the ware wherein consists my wealth;
     And thus methinks should men of judgment frame
     Their means of traffic from the vulgar trade,
     And, as their wealth increaseth, so inclose
     Infinite riches in a little room.
     But now how stands the wind?
     Into what corner peers my halcyon's bill? [21]
     Ha! to the east? yes.  See how stand the vanes--
     East and by south:  why, then, I hope my ships
     I sent for Egypt and the bordering isles
     Are gotten up by Nilus' winding banks;
     Mine argosy from Alexandria,
     Loaden with spice and silks, now under sail,
     Are smoothly gliding down by Candy-shore
     To Malta, through our Mediterranean sea.--
     But who comes here?

          Enter a MERCHANT.

                         How now!

     MERCHANT. Barabas, thy ships are safe,
     Riding in Malta-road; and all the merchants
     With other merchandise are safe arriv'd,
     And have sent me to know whether yourself
     Will come and custom them. [22]

     BARABAS. The ships are safe thou say'st, and richly fraught?

     MERCHANT. They are.

     BARABAS. Why, then, go bid them come ashore,
     And bring with them their bills of entry:
     I hope our credit in the custom-house
     Will serve as well as I were present there.
     Go send 'em threescore camels, thirty mules,
     And twenty waggons, to bring up the ware.
     But art thou master in a ship of mine,
     And is thy credit not enough for that?

     MERCHANT. The very custom barely comes to more
     Than many merchants of the town are worth,
     And therefore far exceeds my credit, sir.

     BARABAS. Go tell 'em the Jew of Malta sent thee, man:
     Tush, who amongst 'em knows not Barabas?

     MERCHANT. I go.

     BARABAS. So, then, there's somewhat come.--
     Sirrah, which of my ships art thou master of?

     MERCHANT. Of the Speranza, sir.

     BARABAS. And saw'st thou not
     Mine argosy at Alexandria?
     Thou couldst not come from Egypt, or by Caire,
     But at the entry there into the sea,
     Where Nilus pays his tribute to the main,
     Thou needs must sail by Alexandria.

     MERCHANT. I neither saw them, nor inquir'd of them:
     But this we heard some of our seamen say,
     They wonder'd how you durst with so much wealth
     Trust such a crazed vessel, and so far.

     BARABAS. Tush, they are wise!  I know her and her strength.
     But [23] go, go thou thy ways, discharge thy ship,
     And bid my factor bring his loading in.
          [Exit MERCHANT.]
     And yet I wonder at this argosy.

          Enter a Second MERCHANT.

     SECOND MERCHANT. Thine argosy from Alexandria,
     Know, Barabas, doth ride in Malta-road,
     Laden with riches, and exceeding store
     Of Persian silks, of gold, and orient pearl.

     BARABAS. How chance you came not with those other ships
     That sail'd by Egypt?

     SECOND MERCHANT. Sir, we saw 'em not.

     BARABAS. Belike they coasted round by Candy-shore
     About their oils or other businesses.
     But 'twas ill done of you to come so far
     Without the aid or conduct of their ships.

     SECOND MERCHANT. Sir, we were wafted by a Spanish fleet,
     That never left us till within a league,
     That had the galleys of the Turk in chase.

     BARABAS. O, they were going up to Sicily.
     Well, go,
     And bid the merchants and my men despatch,
     And come ashore, and see the fraught [24] discharg'd.

     SECOND MERCHANT. I go.
          [Exit.]

     BARABAS. Thus trolls our fortune in by land and sea,
     And thus are we on every side enrich'd:
     These are the blessings promis'd to the Jews,
     And herein was old Abraham's happiness:
     What more may heaven do for earthly man
     Than thus to pour out plenty in their laps,
     Ripping the bowels of the earth for them,
     Making the sea[s] their servants, and the winds
     To drive their substance with successful blasts?
     Who hateth me but for my happiness?
     Or who is honour'd now but for his wealth?
     Rather had I, a Jew, be hated thus,
     Than pitied in a Christian poverty;
     For I can see no fruits in all their faith,
     But malice, falsehood, and excessive pride,
     Which methinks fits not their profession.
     Haply some hapless man hath conscience,
     And for his conscience lives in beggary.
     They say we are a scatter'd nation:
     I cannot tell; but we have scambled [25] up
     More wealth by far than those that brag of faith:
     There's Kirriah Jairim, the great Jew of Greece,
     Obed in Bairseth, Nones in Portugal,
     Myself in Malta, some in Italy,
     Many in France, and wealthy every one;
     Ay, wealthier far than any Christian.
     I must confess we come not to be kings:
     That's not our fault:  alas, our number's few!
     And crowns come either by succession,
     Or urg'd by force; and nothing violent,
     Oft have I heard tell, can be permanent.
     Give us a peaceful rule; make Christians kings,
     That thirst so much for principality.
     I have no charge, nor many children,
     But one sole daughter, whom I hold as dear
     As Agamemnon did his Iphigen;
     And all I have is hers.--But who comes here?

          Enter three JEWS. [26]

     FIRST JEW. Tush, tell not me; 'twas done of policy.

     SECOND JEW. Come, therefore, let us go to Barabas;
     For he can counsel best in these affairs:
     And here he comes.

     BARABAS. Why, how now, countrymen!
     Why flock you thus to me in multitudes?
     What accident's betided to the Jews?

     FIRST JEW. A fleet of warlike galleys, Barabas,
     Are come from Turkey, and lie in our road:
     And they this day sit in the council-house
     To entertain them and their embassy.

     BARABAS. Why, let 'em come, so they come not to war;
     Or let 'em war, so we be conquerors.--
     Nay, let 'em combat, conquer, and kill all,
     So they spare me, my daughter, and my wealth.
          [Aside.]

     FIRST JEW. Were it for confirmation of a league,
     They would not come in warlike manner thus.

     SECOND JEW. I fear their coming will afflict us all.

     BARABAS. Fond [27] men, what dream you of their multitudes?
     What need they treat of peace that are in league?
     The Turks and those of Malta are in league:
     Tut, tut, there is some other matter in't.

     FIRST JEW. Why, Barabas, they come for peace or war.

     BARABAS. Haply for neither, but to pass along,
     Towards Venice, by the Adriatic sea,
     With whom they have attempted many times,
     But never could effect their stratagem.

     THIRD JEW. And very wisely said; it may be so.

     SECOND JEW. But there's a meeting in the senate-house,
     And all the Jews in Malta must be there.

     BARABAS. Hum,--all the Jews in Malta must be there!
     Ay, like enough:  why, then, let every man
     Provide him, and be there for fashion-sake.
     If any thing shall there concern our state,
     Assure yourselves I'll look--unto myself.
          [Aside.] [28]

     FIRST JEW. I know you will.--Well, brethren, let us go.

     SECOND JEW. Let's take our leaves.--Farewell, good Barabas.

     BARABAS. [29] Farewell, Zaareth; farewell, Temainte.
          [Exeunt JEWS.]
     And, Barabas, now search this secret out;
     Summon thy senses, call thy wits together:
     These silly men mistake the matter clean.
     Long to the Turk did Malta contribute;
     Which tribute all in policy, I fear,
     The Turk has [30] let increase to such a sum
     As all the wealth of Malta cannot pay;
     And now by that advantage thinks, belike,
     To seize upon the town; ay, that he seeks.
     Howe'er the world go, I'll make sure for one,
     And seek in time to intercept the worst,
     Warily guarding that which I ha' got:
     Ego mihimet sum semper proximus: [31]
     Why, let 'em enter, let 'em take the town.
          [Exit.] [32]

          Enter FERNEZE governor of Malta, KNIGHTS, and OFFICERS;
          met by CALYMATH, and BASSOES of the TURK.

     FERNEZE. Now, bassoes, [33] what demand you at our hands?

     FIRST BASSO. Know, knights of Malta, that we came from Rhodes,
     ]From Cyprus, Candy, and those other isles
     That lie betwixt the Mediterranean seas.

     FERNEZE. What's Cyprus, Candy, and those other isles
     To us or Malta? what at our hands demand ye?

     CALYMATH. The ten years' tribute that remains unpaid.

     FERNEZE. Alas, my lord, the sum is over-great!
     I hope your highness will consider us.

     CALYMATH. I wish, grave governor, [34] 'twere in my power
     To favour you; but 'tis my father's cause,
     Wherein I may not, nay, I dare not dally.

     FERNEZE. Then give us leave, great Selim Calymath.

     CALYMATH. Stand all aside, [35] and let the knights determine;
     And send to keep our galleys under sail,
     For happily [36] we shall not tarry here.--
     Now, governor, how are you resolv'd?

     FERNEZE. Thus; since your hard conditions are such
     That you will needs have ten years' tribute past,
     We may have time to make collection
     Amongst the inhabitants of Malta for't.

     FIRST BASSO. That's more than is in our commission.

     CALYMATH. What, Callapine! a little courtesy:
     Let's know their time; perhaps it is not long;
     And 'tis more kingly to obtain by peace
     Than to enforce conditions by constraint.--
     What respite ask you, governor?

     FERNEZE. But a month.

     CALYMATH. We grant a month; but see you keep your promise.
     Now launch our galleys back again to sea,
     Where we'll attend the respite you have ta'en,
     And for the money send our messenger.
     Farewell, great governor, and brave knights of Malta.

     FERNEZE. And all good fortune wait on Calymath!
          [Exeunt CALYMATH and BASSOES.]
     Go one and call those Jews of Malta hither:
     Were they not summon'd to appear to-day?

     FIRST OFFICER. They were, my lord; and here they come.

          Enter BARABAS and three JEWS.

     FIRST KNIGHT. Have you determin'd what to say to them?

     FERNEZE. Yes; give me leave:--and, Hebrews, now come near.
     ]From the Emperor of Turkey is arriv'd
     Great Selim Calymath, his highness' son,
     To levy of us ten years' tribute past:
     Now, then, here know that it concerneth us.

     BARABAS. Then, good my lord, to keep your quiet still,
     Your lordship shall do well to let them have it.

     FERNEZE. Soft, Barabas! there's more 'longs to't than so.
     To what this ten years' tribute will amount,
     That we have cast, but cannot compass it
     By reason of the wars, that robb'd our store;
     And therefore are we to request your aid.

     BARABAS. Alas, my lord, we are no soldiers!
     And what's our aid against so great a prince?

     FIRST KNIGHT. Tut, Jew, we know thou art no soldier:
     Thou art a merchant and a money'd man,
     And 'tis thy money, Barabas, we seek.

     BARABAS. How, my lord! my money!

     FERNEZE. Thine and the rest;
     For, to be short, amongst you't must be had.

     FIRST JEW. Alas, my lord, the most of us are poor!

     FERNEZE. Then let the rich increase your portions.

     BARABAS. Are strangers with your tribute to be tax'd?

     SECOND KNIGHT. Have strangers leave with us to get their wealth?
     Then let them with us contribute.

     BARABAS. How! equally?

     FERNEZE. No, Jew, like infidels;
     For through our sufferance of your hateful lives,
     Who stand accursed in the sight of heaven,
     These taxes and afflictions are befall'n,
     And therefore thus we are determined.--
     Read there the articles of our decrees.

     OFFICER. [37] [reads] FIRST, THE TRIBUTE-MONEY OF THE TURKS
     SHALL ALL BE LEVIED AMONGST THE JEWS, AND EACH OF THEM TO PAY
     ONE HALF OF HIS ESTATE.

     BARABAS. How! half his estate!--I hope you mean not mine.
          [Aside.]

     FERNEZE. Read on.

     OFFICER. [reads] SECONDLY, HE THAT DENIES [38] TO PAY, SHALL
     STRAIGHT-BECOME A CHRISTIAN.

     BARABAS. How! a Christian!--Hum,--what's here to do?
          [Aside.]

     OFFICER. [reads] LASTLY, HE THAT DENIES THIS, SHALL ABSOLUTELY
     LOSE ALL HE HAS.

     THREE JEWS. O my lord, we will give half!

     BARABAS. O earth-mettled villains, and no Hebrews born!
     And will you basely thus submit yourselves
     To leave your goods to their arbitrement?

     FERNEZE. Why, Barabas, wilt thou be christened?

     BARABAS. No, governor, I will be no convertite. [39]

     FERNEZE. Then pay thy half.

     BARABAS. Why, know you what you did by this device?
     Half of my substance is a city's wealth.
     Governor, it was not got so easily;
     Nor will I part so slightly therewithal.

     FERNEZE. Sir, half is the penalty of our decree;
     Either pay that, or we will seize on all.

     BARABAS. Corpo di Dio! stay:  you shall have half;
     Let me be us'd but as my brethren are.

     FERNEZE. No, Jew, thou hast denied the articles,
     And now it cannot be recall'd.
          [Exeunt OFFICERS, on a sign from FERNEZE]

     BARABAS. Will you, then, steal my goods?
     Is theft the ground of your religion?

     FERNEZE. No, Jew; we take particularly thine,
     To save the ruin of a multitude:
     And better one want for a common good,
     Than many perish for a private man:
     Yet, Barabas, we will not banish thee,
     But here in Malta, where thou gott'st thy wealth,
     Live still; and, if thou canst, get more.

     BARABAS. Christians, what or how can I multiply?
     Of naught is nothing made.

     FIRST KNIGHT. From naught at first thou cam'st to little wealth,
     ]From little unto more, from more to most:
     If your first curse fall heavy on thy head,
     And make thee poor and scorn'd of all the world,
     'Tis not our fault, but thy inherent sin.

     BARABAS. What, bring you Scripture to confirm your wrongs?
     Preach me not out of my possessions.
     Some Jews are wicked, as all Christians are:
     But say the tribe that I descended of
     Were all in general cast away for sin,
     Shall I be tried by their transgression?
     The man that dealeth righteously shall live;
     And which of you can charge me otherwise?

     FERNEZE. Out, wretched Barabas!
     Sham'st thou not thus to justify thyself,
     As if we knew not thy profession?
     If thou rely upon thy righteousness,
     Be patient, and thy riches will increase.
     Excess of wealth is cause of covetousness;
     And covetousness, O, 'tis a monstrous sin!

     BARABAS. Ay, but theft is worse:  tush! take not from me, then,
     For that is theft; and, if you rob me thus,
     I must be forc'd to steal, and compass more.

     FIRST KNIGHT. Grave governor, list not to his exclaims:
     Convert his mansion to a nunnery;
     His house will harbour many holy nuns.

     FERNEZE. It shall be so.

          Re-enter OFFICERS.

                         Now, officers, have you done?

     FIRST OFFICER. Ay, my lord, we have seiz'd upon the goods
     And wares of Barabas, which, being valu'd,
     Amount to more than all the wealth in Malta:
     And of the other we have seized half.

     FERNEZE. Then we'll take [40] order for the residue.

     BARABAS. Well, then, my lord, say, are you satisfied?
     You have my goods, my money, and my wealth,
     My ships, my store, and all that I enjoy'd;
     And, having all, you can request no more,
     Unless your unrelenting flinty hearts
     Suppress all pity in your stony breasts,
     And now shall move you to bereave my life.

     FERNEZE. No, Barabas; to stain our hands with blood
     Is far from us and our profession.

     BARABAS.  Why, I esteem the injury far less,
     To take the lives of miserable men
     Than be the causers of their misery.
     You have my wealth, the labour of my life,
     The comfort of mine age, my children's hope;
     And therefore ne'er distinguish of the wrong.

     FERNEZE. Content thee, Barabas; thou hast naught but right.

     BARABAS. Your extreme right does me exceeding wrong:
     But take it to you, i'the devil's name!

     FERNEZE. Come, let us in, and gather of these goods
     The money for this tribute of the Turk.

     FIRST KNIGHT. 'Tis necessary that be look'd unto;
     For, if we break our day, we break the league,
     And that will prove but simple policy.
          [Exeunt all except BARABAS and the three JEWS.]

     BARABAS. Ay, policy! that's their profession,
     And not simplicity, as they suggest.--
     The plagues of Egypt, and the curse of heaven,
     Earth's barrenness, and all men's hatred,
     Inflict upon them, thou great Primus Motor!
     And here upon my knees, striking the earth,
     I ban their souls to everlasting pains,
     And extreme tortures of the fiery deep,
     That thus have dealt with me in my distress!

     FIRST JEW. O, yet be patient, gentle Barabas!

     BARABAS. O silly brethren, born to see this day,
     Why stand you thus unmov'd with my laments?
     Why weep you not to think upon my wrongs?
     Why pine not I, and die in this distress?

     FIRST JEW. Why, Barabas, as hardly can we brook
     The cruel handling of ourselves in this:
     Thou seest they have taken half our goods.

     BARABAS. Why did you yield to their extortion?
     You were a multitude, and I but one;
     And of me only have they taken all.

     FIRST JEW. Yet, brother Barabas, remember Job.

     BARABAS. What tell you me of Job? I wot his wealth
     Was written thus; he had seven thousand sheep,
     Three thousand camels, and two hundred yoke
     Of labouring oxen, and five hundred
     She-asses:  but for every one of those,
     Had they been valu'd at indifferent rate,
     I had at home, and in mine argosy,
     And other ships that came from Egypt last,
     As much as would have bought his beasts and him,
     And yet have kept enough to live upon;
     So that not he, but I, may curse the day,
     Thy fatal birth-day, forlorn Barabas;
     And henceforth wish for an eternal night,
     That clouds of darkness may inclose my flesh,
     And hide these extreme sorrows from mine eyes;
     For only I have toil'd to inherit here
     The months of vanity, and loss of time,
     And painful nights, have been appointed me.

     SECOND JEW. Good Barabas, be patient.

     BARABAS. Ay, I pray, leave me in my patience.  You, that
     Were ne'er possess'd of wealth, are pleas'd with want;
     But give him liberty at least to mourn,
     That in a field, amidst his enemies,
     Doth see his soldiers slain, himself disarm'd,
     And knows no means of his recovery:
     Ay, let me sorrow for this sudden chance;
     'Tis in the trouble of my spirit I speak:
     Great injuries are not so soon forgot.

     FIRST JEW. Come, let us leave him; in his ireful mood
     Our words will but increase his ecstasy. [41]

     SECOND JEW. On, then:  but, trust me, 'tis a misery
     To see a man in such affliction.--
     Farewell, Barabas.

     BARABAS. Ay, fare you well.
          [Exeunt three JEWS.] [42]
     See the simplicity of these base slaves,
     Who, for the villains have no wit themselves,
     Think me to be a senseless lump of clay,
     That will with every water wash to dirt!
     No, Barabas is born to better chance,
     And fram'd of finer mould than common men,
     That measure naught but by the present time.
     A reaching thought will search his deepest wits,
     And cast with cunning for the time to come;
     For evils are apt to happen every day.

          Enter ABIGAIL.

     But whither wends my beauteous Abigail?
     O, what has made my lovely daughter sad?
     What, woman! moan not for a little loss;
     Thy father has enough in store for thee.

     ABIGAIL. Nor for myself, but aged Barabas,
     Father, for thee lamenteth Abigail:
     But I will learn to leave these fruitless tears;
     And, urg'd thereto with my afflictions,
     With fierce exclaims run to the senate-house,
     And in the senate reprehend them all,
     And rent their hearts with tearing of my hair,
     Till they reduce [43] the wrongs done to my father.

     BARABAS. No, Abigail; things past recovery
     Are hardly cur'd with exclamations:
     Be silent, daughter; sufferance breeds ease,
     And time may yield us an occasion,
     Which on the sudden cannot serve the turn.
     Besides, my girl, think me not all so fond [44]
     As negligently to forgo so much
     Without provision for thyself and me:
     Ten thousand portagues, [45] besides great pearls,
     Rich costly jewels, and stones infinite,
     Fearing the worst of this before it fell,
     I closely hid.

     ABIGAIL. Where, father?

     BARABAS. In my house, my girl.

     ABIGAIL. Then shall they ne'er be seen of Barabas;
     For they have seiz'd upon thy house and wares.

     BARABAS. But they will give me leave once more, I trow,
     To go into my house.

     ABIGAIL. That may they not;
     For there I left the governor placing nuns,
     Displacing me; and of thy house they mean
     To make a nunnery, where none but their own sect [46]
     Must enter in; men generally barr'd.

     BARABAS. My gold, my gold, and all my wealth is gone!--
     You partial heavens, have I deserv'd this plague?
     What, will you thus oppose me, luckless stars,
     To make me desperate in my poverty?
     And, knowing me impatient in distress,
     Think me so mad as I will hang myself,
     That I may vanish o'er the earth in air,
     And leave no memory that e'er I was?
     No, I will live; nor loathe I this my life:
     And, since you leave me in the ocean thus
     To sink or swim, and put me to my shifts,
     I'll rouse my senses, and awake myself.--
     Daughter, I have it:  thou perceiv'st the plight
     Wherein these Christians have oppressed me:
     Be rul'd by me, for in extremity
     We ought to make bar of no policy.

     ABIGAIL. Father, whate'er it be, to injure them
     That have so manifestly wronged us,
     What will not Abigail attempt?

     BARABAS. Why, so.
     Then thus:  thou told'st me they have turn'd my house
     Into a nunnery, and some nuns are there?

     ABIGAIL. I did.

     BARABAS. Then, Abigail, there must my girl
     Entreat the abbess to be entertain'd.

     ABIGAIL. How! as a nun?

     BARABAS. Ay, daughter; for religion
     Hides many mischiefs from suspicion.

     ABIGAIL. Ay, but, father, they will suspect me there.

     BARABAS. Let 'em suspect; but be thou so precise
     As they may think it done of holiness:
     Entreat 'em fair, and give them friendly speech,
     And seem to them as if thy sins were great,
     Till thou hast gotten to be entertain'd.

     ABIGAIL. Thus, father, shall I much dissemble.

     BARABAS. Tush!
     As good dissemble that thou never mean'st,
     As first mean truth and then dissemble it:
     A counterfeit profession is better
     Than unseen hypocrisy.

     ABIGAIL. Well, father, say I be entertain'd,
     What then shall follow?

     BARABAS. This shall follow then.
     There have I hid, close underneath the plank
     That runs along the upper-chamber floor,
     The gold and jewels which I kept for thee:--
     But here they come:  be cunning, Abigail.

     ABIGAIL. Then, father, go with me.

     BARABAS. No, Abigail, in this
     It is not necessary I be seen;
     For I will seem offended with thee for't:
     Be close, my girl, for this must fetch my gold.
          [They retire.]

          Enter FRIAR JACOMO, [47] FRIAR BARNARDINE, ABBESS, and a NUN.

     FRIAR JACOMO. Sisters,
     We now are almost at the new-made nunnery.

     ABBESS. [48] The better; for we love not to be seen:
     'Tis thirty winters long since some of us
     Did stray so far amongst the multitude.

     FRIAR JACOMO. But, madam, this house
     And waters of this new-made nunnery
     Will much delight you.

     ABBESS. It may be so.--But who comes here?

          [ABIGAIL comes forward.]

     ABIGAIL. Grave abbess, and you happy virgins' guide,
     Pity the state of a distressed maid!

     ABBESS. What art thou, daughter?

     ABIGAIL. The hopeless daughter of a hapless Jew,
     The Jew of Malta, wretched Barabas,
     Sometimes [49] the owner of a goodly house,
     Which they have now turn'd to a nunnery.

     ABBESS. Well, daughter, say, what is thy suit with us?

     ABIGAIL. Fearing the afflictions which my father feels
     Proceed from sin or want of faith in us,
     I'd pass away my life in penitence,
     And be a novice in your nunnery,
     To make atonement for my labouring soul.

     FRIAR JACOMO. No doubt, brother, but this proceedeth of
     the spirit.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE.
     Ay, and of a moving spirit too, brother:  but come,
     Let us entreat she may be entertain'd.

     ABBESS. Well, daughter, we admit you for a nun.

     ABIGAIL. First let me as a novice learn to frame
     My solitary life to your strait laws,
     And let me lodge where I was wont to lie:
     I do not doubt, by your divine precepts
     And mine own industry, but to profit much.

     BARABAS. As much, I hope, as all I hid is worth.
          [Aside.]

     ABBESS. Come, daughter, follow us.

     BARABAS. [coming forward] Why, how now, Abigail!
     What mak'st thou 'mongst these hateful Christians?

     FRIAR JACOMO. Hinder her not, thou man of little faith,
     For she has mortified herself.

     BARABAS. How! mortified!

     FRIAR JACOMO. And is admitted to the sisterhood.

     BARABAS. Child of perdition, and thy father's shame!
     What wilt thou do among these hateful fiends?
     I charge thee on my blessing that thou leave
     These devils and their damned heresy!

     ABIGAIL. Father, forgive me-- [50]

     BARABAS. Nay, back, Abigail,
     And think upon the jewels and the gold;
     The board is marked thus that covers it.--
          [Aside to ABIGAIL in a whisper.]
     Away, accursed, from thy father's sight!

     FRIAR JACOMO. Barabas, although thou art in misbelief,
     And wilt not see thine own afflictions,
     Yet let thy daughter be no longer blind.

     BARABAS. Blind friar, I reck not thy persuasions,--
     The board is marked thus [51] that covers it--
          [Aside to ABIGAIL in a whisper.]
     For I had rather die than see her thus.--
     Wilt thou forsake me too in my distress,
     Seduced daughter?--Go, forget not.-- [52]
          [Aside to her in a whisper.]
     Becomes it Jews to be so credulous?--
     To-morrow early I'll be at the door.--
          [Aside to her in a whisper.]
     No, come not at me; if thou wilt be damn'd,
     Forget me, see me not; and so, be gone!--
     Farewell; remember to-morrow morning.--
          [Aside to her in a whisper.]
     Out, out, thou wretch!
          [Exit, on one side, BARABAS.  Exeunt, on the other side,
          FRIARS, ABBESS, NUN, and ABIGAIL:  and, as they are going
          out,]

          Enter MATHIAS.

     MATHIAS. Who's this? fair Abigail, the rich Jew's daughter,
     Become a nun! her father's sudden fall
     Has humbled her, and brought her down to this:
     Tut, she were fitter for a tale of love,
     Than to be tired out with orisons;
     And better would she far become a bed,
     Embraced in a friendly lover's arms,
     Than rise at midnight to a solemn mass.

          Enter LODOWICK.

     LODOWICK. Why, how now, Don Mathias! in a dump?

     MATHIAS. Believe me, noble Lodowick, I have seen
     The strangest sight, in my opinion,
     That ever I beheld.

     LODOWICK. What was't, I prithee?

     MATHIAS. A fair young maid, scarce fourteen years of age,
     The sweetest flower in Cytherea's field,
     Cropt from the pleasures of the fruitful earth,
     And strangely metamorphos'd [to a] nun.

     LODOWICK. But say, what was she?

     MATHIAS. Why, the rich Jew's daughter.

     LODOWICK. What, Barabas, whose goods were lately seiz'd?
     Is she so fair?

     MATHIAS. And matchless beautiful,
     As, had you seen her, 'twould have mov'd your heart,
     Though countermin'd with walls of brass, to love,
     Or, at the least, to pity.

     LODOWICK. An if she be so fair as you report,
     'Twere time well spent to go and visit her:
     How say you? shall we?

     MATHIAS. I must and will, sir; there's no remedy.

     LODOWICK. And so will I too, or it shall go hard.
     Farewell, Mathias.

     MATHIAS. Farewell, Lodowick.
          [Exeunt severally.]

ACT II.

          Enter BARABAS, with a light. [53]

     BARABAS. Thus, like the sad-presaging raven, that tolls
     The sick man's passport in her hollow beak, [54]
     And in the shadow of the silent night
     Doth shake contagion from her sable wings,
     Vex'd and tormented runs poor Barabas
     With fatal curses towards these Christians.
     The incertain pleasures of swift-footed time
     Have ta'en their flight, and left me in despair;
     And of my former riches rests no more
     But bare remembrance; like a soldier's scar,
     That has no further comfort for his maim.--
     O Thou, that with a fiery pillar ledd'st
     The sons of Israel through the dismal shades,
     Light Abraham's offspring; and direct the hand
     Of Abigail this night! or let the day
     Turn to eternal darkness after this!--
     No sleep can fasten on my watchful eyes,
     Nor quiet enter my distemper'd thoughts,
     Till I have answer of my Abigail.

          Enter ABIGAIL above.

     ABIGAIL. Now have I happily espied a time
     To search the plank my father did appoint;
     And here, behold, unseen, where I have found
     The gold, the pearls, and jewels, which he hid.

     BARABAS. Now I remember those old women's words,
     Who in my wealth would tell me winter's tales,
     And speak of spirits and ghosts that glide by night
     About the place where treasure hath been hid:
     And now methinks that I am one of those;
     For, whilst I live, here lives my soul's sole hope,
     And, when I die, here shall my spirit walk.

     ABIGAIL. Now that my father's fortune were so good
     As but to be about this happy place!
     'Tis not so happy:  yet, when we parted last,
     He said he would attend me in the morn.
     Then, gentle Sleep, where'er his body rests,
     Give charge to Morpheus that he may dream
     A golden dream, and of [55] the sudden wake, [56]
     Come and receive the treasure I have found.

     BARABAS. Bueno para todos mi ganado no era: [57]
     As good go on, as sit so sadly thus.--
     But stay:  what star shines yonder in the east? [58]
     The loadstar of my life, if Abigail.--
     Who's there?

     ABIGAIL. Who's that?

     BARABAS. Peace, Abigail! 'tis I.

     ABIGAIL. Then, father, here receive thy happiness.

     BARABAS. Hast thou't?

     ABIGAIL. Here.[throws down bags]  Hast thou't?
     There's more, and more, and more.

     BARABAS. O my girl,
     My gold, my fortune, my felicity,
     Strength to my soul, death to mine enemy;
     Welcome the first beginner of my bliss!
     O Abigail, Abigail, that I had thee here too!
     Then my desires were fully satisfied:
     But I will practice thy enlargement thence:
     O girl! O gold! O beauty! O my bliss!
          [Hugs the bags.]

     ABIGAIL. Father, it draweth towards midnight now,
     And 'bout this time the nuns begin to wake;
     To shun suspicion, therefore, let us part.

     BARABAS. Farewell, my joy, and by my fingers take
     A kiss from him that sends it from his soul.
          [Exit ABIGAIL above.]
     Now, Phoebus, ope the eye-lids of the day.
     And, for the raven, wake the morning lark,
     That I may hover with her in the air,
     Singing o'er these, as she does o'er her young.
     Hermoso placer de los dineros. [59]
          [Exit.]

          Enter FERNEZE, [60] MARTIN DEL BOSCO, KNIGHTS, and OFFICERS.

     FERNEZE. Now, captain, tell us whither thou art bound?
     Whence is thy ship that anchors in our road?
     And why thou cam'st ashore without our leave?

     MARTIN DEL BOSCO. Governor of Malta, hither am I bound;
     My ship, the Flying Dragon, is of Spain,
     And so am I; Del Bosco is my name,
     Vice-admiral unto the Catholic King.

     FIRST KNIGHT. 'Tis true, my lord; therefore entreat [61] him well.

     MARTIN DEL BOSCO.
     Our fraught is Grecians, Turks, and Afric Moors;
     For late upon the coast of Corsica,
     Because we vail'd not [62] to the Turkish [63] fleet,
     Their creeping galleys had us in the chase:
     But suddenly the wind began to rise,
     And then we luff'd and tack'd, [64] and fought at ease:
     Some have we fir'd, and many have we sunk;
     But one amongst the rest became our prize:
     The captain's slain; the rest remain our slaves,
     Of whom we would make sale in Malta here.

     FERNEZE. Martin del Bosco, I have heard of thee:
     Welcome to Malta, and to all of us!
     But to admit a sale of these thy Turks,
     We may not, nay, we dare not give consent,
     By reason of a tributary league.

     FIRST KNIGHT. Del Bosco, as thou lov'st and honour'st us,
     Persuade our governor against the Turk:
     This truce we have is but in hope of gold,
     And with that sum he craves might we wage war.

     MARTIN DEL BOSCO. Will knights of Malta be in league with Turks,
     And buy it basely too for sums of gold?
     My lord, remember that, to Europe's shame,
     The Christian isle of Rhodes, from whence you came,
     Was lately lost, and you were stated [65] here
     To be at deadly enmity with Turks.

     FERNEZE. Captain, we know it; but our force is small.

     MARTIN DEL BOSCO. What is the sum that Calymath requires?

     FERNEZE. A hundred thousand crowns.

     MARTIN DEL BOSCO. My lord and king hath title to this isle,
     And he means quickly to expel you hence;
     Therefore be rul'd by me, and keep the gold:
     I'll write unto his majesty for aid,
     And not depart until I see you free.

     FERNEZE. On this condition shall thy Turks be sold.--
     Go, officers, and set them straight in show.--
          [Exeunt OFFICERS.]
     Bosco, thou shalt be Malta's general;
     We and our warlike knights will follow thee
     Against these barbarous misbelieving Turks.

     MARTIN DEL BOSCO. So shall you imitate those you succeed;
     For, when their hideous force environ'd Rhodes,
     Small though the number was that kept the town,
     They fought it out, and not a man surviv'd
     To bring the hapless news to Christendom.

     FERNEZE. So will we fight it out:  come, let's away.
     Proud daring Calymath, instead of gold,
     We'll send thee bullets wrapt in smoke and fire:
     Claim tribute where thou wilt, we are resolv'd,--
     Honour is bought with blood, and not with gold.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter OFFICERS, [66] with ITHAMORE and other SLAVES.

     FIRST OFFICER. This is the market-place; here let 'em stand:
     Fear not their sale, for they'll be quickly bought.

     SECOND OFFICER. Every one's price is written on his back,
     And so much must they yield, or not be sold.

     FIRST OFFICER.
     Here comes the Jew:  had not his goods been seiz'd,
     He'd give us present money for them all.

          Enter BARABAS.

     BARABAS. In spite of these swine-eating Christians,
     (Unchosen nation, never circumcis'd,
     Poor villains, such as were [67] ne'er thought upon
     Till Titus and Vespasian conquer'd us,)
     Am I become as wealthy as I was.
     They hop'd my daughter would ha' been a nun;
     But she's at home, and I have bought a house
     As great and fair as is the governor's:
     And there, in spite of Malta, will I dwell,
     Having Ferneze's hand; whose heart I'll have,
     Ay, and his son's too, or it shall go hard.
     I am not of the tribe of Levi, I,
     That can so soon forget an injury.
     We Jews can fawn like spaniels when we please;
     And when we grin we bite; yet are our looks
     As innocent and harmless as a lamb's.
     I learn'd in Florence how to kiss my hand,
     Heave up my shoulders when they call me dog,
     And duck as low as any bare-foot friar;
     Hoping to see them starve upon a stall,
     Or else be gather'd for in our synagogue,
     That, when the offering-basin comes to me,
     Even for charity I may spit into't.--
     Here comes Don Lodowick, the governor's son,
     One that I love for his good father's sake.

          Enter LODOWICK.

     LODOWICK. I hear the wealthy Jew walked this way:
     I'll seek him out, and so insinuate,
     That I may have a sight of Abigail,
     For Don Mathias tells me she is fair.

     BARABAS. Now will I shew myself to have more of the serpent than
     the dove; that is, more knave than fool.
          [Aside.]

     LODOWICK. Yond' walks the Jew:  now for fair Abigail.

     BARABAS. Ay, ay, no doubt but she's at your command.
          [Aside.]

     LODOWICK. Barabas, thou know'st I am the governor's son.

     BARABAS.
     I would you were his father too, sir! that's all the harm
     I wish you.--The slave looks like a hog's cheek new-singed.
          [Aside.]

     LODOWICK. Whither walk'st thou, Barabas?

     BARABAS. No further:  'tis a custom held with us,
     That when we speak with Gentiles like to you,
     We turn into [68] the air to purge ourselves;
     For unto us the promise doth belong.

     LODOWICK. Well, Barabas, canst help me to a diamond?

     BARABAS. O, sir, your father had my diamonds:
     Yet I have one left that will serve your turn.--
     I mean my daughter; but, ere he shall have her,
     I'll sacrifice her on a pile of wood:
     I ha' the poison of the city [69] for him,
     And the white leprosy.
          [Aside.]

     LODOWICK. What sparkle does it give without a foil?

     BARABAS. The diamond that I talk of ne'er was foil'd:--
     But, when he touches it, it will be foil'd.-- [70]
          [Aside.]
     Lord Lodowick, it sparkles bright and fair.

     LODOWICK. Is it square or pointed? pray, let me know.

     BARABAS. Pointed it is, good sir,--but not for you.
          [Aside.]

     LODOWICK. I like it much the better.

     BARABAS. So do I too.

     LODOWICK. How shews it by night?

     BARABAS. Outshines Cynthia's rays:--
     You'll like it better far o' nights than days.
          [Aside.]

     LODOWICK. And what's the price?

     BARABAS. Your life, an if you have it [Aside].--O my lord,
     We will not jar about the price:  come to my house,
     And I will give't your honour--with a vengeance.
          [Aside.]

     LODOWICK. No, Barabas, I will deserve it first.

     BARABAS. Good sir,
     Your father has deserv'd it at my hands,
     Who, of mere charity and Christian ruth,
     To bring me to religious purity,
     And, as it were, in catechising sort,
     To make me mindful of my mortal sins,
     Against my will, and whether I would or no,
     Seiz'd all I had, and thrust me out o' doors,
     And made my house a place for nuns most chaste.

     LODOWICK. No doubt your soul shall reap the fruit of it.

     BARABAS. Ay, but, my lord, the harvest is far off:
     And yet I know the prayers of those nuns
     And holy friars, having money for their pains,
     Are wondrous;--and indeed do no man good;--
          [Aside.]
     And, seeing they are not idle, but still doing,
     'Tis likely they in time may reap some fruit,
     I mean, in fullness of perfection.

     LODOWICK. Good Barabas, glance not at our holy nuns.

     BARABAS. No, but I do it through a burning zeal,--
     Hoping ere long to set the house a-fire;
     For, though they do a while increase and multiply,
     I'll have a saying to that nunnery.-- [71]
          [Aside.]
     As for the diamond, sir, I told you of,
     Come home, and there's no price shall make us part,
     Even for your honourable father's sake,--
     It shall go hard but I will see your death.--
          [Aside.]
     But now I must be gone to buy a slave.

     LODOWICK. And, Barabas, I'll bear thee company.

     BARABAS. Come, then; here's the market-place.--
     What's the price of this slave? two hundred crowns! do the Turks
     weigh so much?

     FIRST OFFICER. Sir, that's his price.

     BARABAS. What, can he steal, that you demand so much?
     Belike he has some new trick for a purse;
     An if he has, he is worth three hundred plates, [72]
     So that, being bought, the town-seal might be got
     To keep him for his life-time from the gallows:
     The sessions-day is critical to thieves,
     And few or none scape but by being purg'd.

     LODOWICK. Rat'st thou this Moor but at two hundred plates?

     FIRST OFFICER. No more, my lord.

     BARABAS. Why should this Turk be dearer than that Moor?

     FIRST OFFICER. Because he is young, and has more qualities.

     BARABAS. What, hast the philosopher's stone? an thou hast, break
     my head with it, I'll forgive thee.

     SLAVE. [73] No, sir; I can cut and shave.

     BARABAS. Let me see, sirrah; are you not an old shaver?

     SLAVE. Alas, sir, I am a very youth!

     BARABAS. A youth! I'll buy you, and marry you to Lady Vanity, [74]
     if you do well.

     SLAVE. I will serve you, sir.

     BARABAS. Some wicked trick or other:  it may be, under colour
     of shaving, thou'lt cut my throat for my goods.  Tell me,
     hast thou thy health well?

     SLAVE. Ay, passing well.

     BARABAS. So much the worse:  I must have one that's sickly, an't
     be but for sparing victuals:  'tis not a stone of beef a-day
     will maintain you in these chops.--Let me see one that's
     somewhat leaner.

     FIRST OFFICER. Here's a leaner; how like you him?

     BARABAS. Where wast thou born?

     ITHAMORE. In Thrace; brought up in Arabia.

     BARABAS. So much the better; thou art for my turn.
     An hundred crowns?  I'll have him; there's the coin.
          [Gives money.]

     FIRST OFFICER. Then mark him, sir, and take him hence.

     BARABAS. Ay, mark him, you were best; for this is he
     That by my help shall do much villany.--
          [Aside.]
     My lord, farewell.--Come, sirrah; you are mine.--
     As for the diamond, it shall be yours:
     I pray, sir, be no stranger at my house;
     All that I have shall be at your command.

          Enter MATHIAS and KATHARINE. [75]

     MATHIAS. What make the Jew and Lodowick so private?
     I fear me 'tis about fair Abigail.
          [Aside.]

     BARABAS. [to LODOWICK.] Yonder comes Don Mathias; let us stay: [76]
     He loves my daughter, and she holds him dear;
     But I have sworn to frustrate both their hopes,
     And be reveng'd upon the--governor.
          [Aside.]
          [Exit LODOWICK.]

     KATHARINE. This Moor is comeliest, is he not? speak, son.

     MATHIAS. No, this is the better, mother, view this well.

     BARABAS. Seem not to know me here before your mother,
     Lest she mistrust the match that is in hand:
     When you have brought her home, come to my house;
     Think of me as thy father:  son, farewell.

     MATHIAS. But wherefore talk'd Don Lodowick with you?

     BARABAS. Tush, man! we talk'd of diamonds, not of Abigail.

     KATHARINE. Tell me, Mathias, is not that the Jew?

     BARABAS. As for the comment on the Maccabees,
     I have it, sir, and 'tis at your command.

     MATHIAS. Yes, madam, and my talk with him was [77]
     About the borrowing of a book or two.

     KATHARINE. Converse not with him; he is cast off from heaven.--
     Thou hast thy crowns, fellow.--Come, let's away.

     MATHIAS. Sirrah Jew, remember the book.

     BARABAS. Marry, will I, sir.
          [Exeunt KATHARlNE and MATHIAS.]

     FIRST OFFICER. Come, I have made a reasonable market; let's away.
          [Exeunt OFFICERS with SLAVES.]

     BARABAS. Now let me know thy name, and therewithal
     Thy birth, condition, and profession.

     ITHAMORE. Faith, sir, my birth is but mean; my name's Ithamore;
     my profession what you please.

     BARABAS. Hast thou no trade? then listen to my words,
     And I will teach [thee] that shall stick by thee:
     First, be thou void of these affections,
     Compassion, love, vain hope, and heartless fear;
     Be mov'd at nothing, see thou pity none,
     But to thyself smile when the Christians moan.

     ITHAMORE. O, brave, master! [78] I worship your nose [79] for this.

     BARABAS. As for myself, I walk abroad o' nights,
     And kill sick people groaning under walls:
     Sometimes I go about and poison wells;
     And now and then, to cherish Christian thieves,
     I am content to lose some of my crowns,
     That I may, walking in my gallery,
     See 'em go pinion'd along by my door.
     Being young, I studied physic, and began
     To practice first upon the Italian;
     There I enrich'd the priests with burials,
     And always kept the sexton's arms in ure [80]
     With digging graves and ringing dead men's knells:
     And, after that, was I an engineer,
     And in the wars 'twixt France and Germany,
     Under pretence of helping Charles the Fifth,
     Slew friend and enemy with my stratagems:
     Then, after that, was I an usurer,
     And with extorting, cozening, forfeiting,
     And tricks belonging unto brokery,
     I fill'd the gaols with bankrupts in a year,
     And with young orphans planted hospitals;
     And every moon made some or other mad,
     And now and then one hang himself for grief,
     Pinning upon his breast a long great scroll
     How I with interest tormented him.
     But mark how I am blest for plaguing them;--
     I have as much coin as will buy the town.
     But tell me now, how hast thou spent thy time?

     ITHAMORE. Faith, master,
     In setting Christian villages on fire,
     Chaining of eunuchs, binding galley-slaves.
     One time I was an hostler in an inn,
     And in the night-time secretly would I steal
     To travellers' chambers, and there cut their throats:
     Once at Jerusalem, where the pilgrims kneel'd,
     I strewed powder on the marble stones,
     And therewithal their knees would rankle so,
     That I have laugh'd a-good [81] to see the cripples
     Go limping home to Christendom on stilts.

     BARABAS. Why, this is something:  make account of me
     As of thy fellow; we are villains both;
     Both circumcised; we hate Christians both:
     Be true and secret; thou shalt want no gold.
     But stand aside; here comes Don Lodowick.

          Enter LODOWICK. [82]

     LODOWICK. O, Barabas, well met;
     Where is the diamond you told me of?

     BARABAS. I have it for you, sir:  please you walk in with me.--
     What, ho, Abigail! open the door, I say!

          Enter ABIGAIL, with letters.

     ABIGAIL. In good time, father; here are letters come
     ]From Ormus, and the post stays here within.

     BARABAS. Give me the letters.--Daughter, do you hear?
     Entertain Lodowick, the governor's son,
     With all the courtesy you can afford,
     Provided that you keep your maidenhead:
     Use him as if he were a Philistine;
     Dissemble, swear, protest, vow love to him: [83]
     He is not of the seed of Abraham.--
          [Aside to her.]
     I am a little busy, sir; pray, pardon me.--
     Abigail, bid him welcome for my sake.

     ABIGAIL. For your sake and his own he's welcome hither.

     BARABAS. Daughter, a word more:  kiss him, speak him fair,
     And like a cunning Jew so cast about,
     That ye be both made sure [84] ere you come out.
          [Aside to her.]

     ABIGAIL. O father, Don Mathias is my love!

     BARABAS. I know it:  yet, I say, make love to him;
     Do, it is requisite it should be so.--
          [Aside to her.]
     Nay, on my life, it is my factor's hand;
     But go you in, I'll think upon the account.
          [Exeunt ABIGAIL and LODOWICK into the house.]
     The account is made, for Lodovico [85] dies.
     My factor sends me word a merchant's fled
     That owes me for a hundred tun of wine:
     I weigh it thus much[snapping his fingers]!  I have wealth enough;
     For now by this has he kiss'd Abigail,
     And she vows love to him, and he to her.
     As sure as heaven rain'd manna for the Jews,
     So sure shall he and Don Mathias die:
     His father was my chiefest enemy.

          Enter MATHIAS.

     Whither goes Don Mathias? stay a while.

     MATHIAS. Whither, but to my fair love Abigail?

     BARABAS. Thou know'st, and heaven can witness it is true,
     That I intend my daughter shall be thine.

     MATHIAS. Ay, Barabas, or else thou wrong'st me much.

     BARABAS. O, heaven forbid I should have such a thought!
     Pardon me though I weep:  the governor's son
     Will, whether I will or no, have Abigail;
     He sends her letters, bracelets, jewels, rings.

     MATHIAS. Does she receive them?

     BARABAS. She! no, Mathias, no, but sends them back;
     And, when he comes, she locks herself up fast;
     Yet through the key-hole will he talk to her,
     While she runs to the window, looking out
     When you should come and hale him from the door.

     MATHIAS. O treacherous Lodowick!

     BARABAS. Even now, as I came home, he slipt me in,
     And I am sure he is with Abigail.

     MATHIAS. I'll rouse him thence.

     BARABAS. Not for all Malta; therefore sheathe your sword;
     If you love me, no quarrels in my house;
     But steal you in, and seem to see him not:
     I'll give him such a warning ere he goes,
     As he shall have small hopes of Abigail.
     Away, for here they come.

          Re-enter LODOWICK and ABIGAIL.

     MATHIAS. What, hand in hand! I cannot suffer this.

     BARABAS. Mathias, as thou lov'st me, not a word.

     MATHIAS. Well, let it pass; another time shall serve.
          [Exit into the house.]

     LODOWICK. Barabas, is not that the widow's son?

     BARABAS. Ay, and take heed, for he hath sworn your death.

     LODOWICK. My death! what, is the base-born peasant mad?

     BARABAS. No, no; but happily [86] he stands in fear
     Of that which you, I think, ne'er dream upon,--
     My daughter here, a paltry silly girl.

     LODOWICK. Why, loves she Don Mathias?

     BARABAS. Doth she not with her smiling answer you?

     ABIGAIL. He has my heart; I smile against my will.
          [Aside.]

     LODOWICK. Barabas, thou know'st I have lov'd thy daughter long.

     BARABAS. And so has she done you, even from a child.

     LODOWICK. And now I can no longer hold my mind.

     BARABAS. Nor I the affection that I bear to you.

     LODOWICK. This is thy diamond; tell me, shall I have it?

     BARABAS. Win it, and wear it; it is yet unsoil'd. [87]
     O, but I know your lordship would disdain
     To marry with the daughter of a Jew:
     And yet I'll give her many a golden cross [88]
     With Christian posies round about the ring.

     LODOWICK. 'Tis not thy wealth, but her that I esteem;
     Yet crave I thy consent.

     BARABAS. And mine you have; yet let me talk to her.--
     This offspring of Cain, this Jebusite,
     That never tasted of the Passover,
     Nor e'er shall see the land of Canaan,
     Nor our Messias that is yet to come;
     This gentle maggot, Lodowick, I mean,
     Must be deluded:  let him have thy hand,
     But keep thy heart till Don Mathias comes.
          [Aside to her.]

     ABIGAIL. What, shall I be betroth'd to Lodowick?

     BARABAS. It's no sin to deceive a Christian;
     For they themselves hold it a principle,
     Faith is not to be held with heretics:
     But all are heretics that are not Jews;
     This follows well, and therefore, daughter, fear not.--
          [Aside to her.]
     I have entreated her, and she will grant.

     LODOWICK. Then, gentle Abigail, plight thy faith to me.

     ABIGAIL. I cannot choose, seeing my father bids:
     Nothing but death shall part my love and me.

     LODOWICK. Now have I that for which my soul hath long'd.

     BARABAS. So have not I; but yet I hope I shall.
          [Aside.]

     ABIGAIL. O wretched Abigail, what hast thou [89] done?
          [Aside.]

     LODOWICK. Why on the sudden is your colour chang'd?

     ABIGAIL. I know not:  but farewell; I must be gone.

     BARABAS. Stay her, but let her not speak one word more.

     LODOWICK. Mute o' the sudden! here's a sudden change.

     BARABAS. O, muse not at it; 'tis the Hebrews' guise,
     That maidens new-betroth'd should weep a while:
     Trouble her not; sweet Lodowick, depart:
     She is thy wife, and thou shalt be mine heir.

     LODOWICK. O, is't the custom? then I am resolv'd: [90]
     But rather let the brightsome heavens be dim,
     And nature's beauty choke with stifling clouds,
     Than my fair Abigail should frown on me.--
     There comes the villain; now I'll be reveng'd.

          Re-enter MATHIAS.

     BARABAS. Be quiet, Lodowick; it is enough
     That I have made thee sure to Abigail.

     LODOWICK. Well, let him go.
          [Exit.]

     BARABAS. Well, but for me, as you went in at doors
     You had been stabb'd:  but not a word on't now;
     Here must no speeches pass, nor swords be drawn.

     MATHIAS. Suffer me, Barabas, but to follow him.

     BARABAS. No; so shall I, if any hurt be done,
     Be made an accessary of your deeds:
     Revenge it on him when you meet him next.

     MATHIAS. For this I'll have his heart.

     BARABAS. Do so.  Lo, here I give thee Abigail!

     MATHIAS. What greater gift can poor Mathias have?
     Shall Lodowick rob me of so fair a love?
     My life is not so dear as Abigail.

     BARABAS. My heart misgives me, that, to cross your love,
     He's with your mother; therefore after him.

     MATHIAS. What, is he gone unto my mother?

     BARABAS. Nay, if you will, stay till she comes herself.

     MATHIAS. I cannot stay; for, if my mother come,
     She'll die with grief.
          [Exit.]

     ABIGAIL. I cannot take my leave of him for tears.
     Father, why have you thus incens'd them both?

     BARABAS. What's that to thee?

     ABIGAIL. I'll make 'em friends again.

     BARABAS.
     You'll make 'em friends! are there not Jews enow in Malta,
     But thou must dote upon a Christian?

     ABIGAIL. I will have Don Mathias; he is my love.

     BARABAS. Yes, you shall have him.--Go, put her in.

     ITHAMORE. Ay, I'll put her in.
          [Puts in ABIGAIL.]

     BARABAS. Now tell me, Ithamore, how lik'st thou this?

     ITHAMORE. Faith, master, I think by this
     You purchase both their lives:  is it not so?

     BARABAS. True; and it shall be cunningly perform'd.

     ITHAMORE. O, master, that I might have a hand in this!

     BARABAS. Ay, so thou shalt; 'tis thou must do the deed:
     Take this, and bear it to Mathias straight,
          [Giving a letter.]
     And tell him that it comes from Lodowick.

     ITHAMORE. 'Tis poison'd, is it not?

     BARABAS. No, no; and yet it might be done that way:
     It is a challenge feign'd from Lodowick.

     ITHAMORE. Fear not; I will so set his heart a-fire,
     That he shall verily think it comes from him.

     BARABAS. I cannot choose but like thy readiness:
     Yet be not rash, but do it cunningly.

     ITHAMORE. As I behave myself in this, employ me hereafter.

     BARABAS. Away, then!
          [Exit ITHAMORE.]
     So; now will I go in to Lodowick,
     And, like a cunning spirit, feign some lie,
     Till I have set 'em both at enmity.
          [Exit.]

ACT III.

          Enter BELLAMIRA. [91]

     BELLAMIRA. Since this town was besieg'd, my gain grows cold:
     The time has been, that but for one bare night
     A hundred ducats have been freely given;
     But now against my will I must be chaste:
     And yet I know my beauty doth not fail.
     ]From Venice merchants, and from Padua
     Were wont to come rare-witted gentlemen,
     Scholars I mean, learned and liberal;
     And now, save Pilia-Borza, comes there none,
     And he is very seldom from my house;
     And here he comes.

          Enter PILIA-BORZA.

     PILIA-BORZA.
     Hold thee, wench, there's something for thee to spend.
          [Shewing a bag of silver.]

     BELLAMIRA. 'Tis silver; I disdain it.

     PILIA-BORZA. Ay, but the Jew has gold,
     And I will have it, or it shall go hard.

     BELLAMIRA. Tell me, how cam'st thou by this?

     PILIA-BORZA. Faith, walking the back-lanes, through the gardens,
     I chanced to cast mine eye up to the Jew's counting-house, where
     I saw some bags of money, and in the night I clambered up with
     my hooks; and, as I was taking my choice, I heard a rumbling in
     the house; so I took only this, and run my way.--But here's the
     Jew's man.

     BELLAMIRA. Hide the bag.

          Enter ITHAMORE.

     PILIA-BORZA. Look not towards him, let's away.  Zoons, what a
     looking thou keepest! thou'lt betray's anon.
          [Exeunt BELLAMIRA and PILIA-BORZA.]

     ITHAMORE. O, the sweetest face that ever I beheld!  I know she
     is a courtezan by her attire:  now would I give a hundred of
     the Jew's crowns that I had such a concubine.
     Well, I have deliver'd the challenge in such sort,
     As meet they will, and fighting die,--brave sport!
          [Exit.]

          Enter MATHIAS.

     MATHIAS. This is the place: [92]  now Abigail shall see
     Whether Mathias holds her dear or no.

          Enter LODOWICK.

     What, dares the villain write in such base terms?
          [Looking at a letter.]

     LODOWICK. I did it; and revenge it, if thou dar'st!
          [They fight.]

          Enter BARABAS above.

     BARABAS. O, bravely fought! and yet they thrust not home.
     Now, Lodovico! [93] now, Mathias!--So;
          [Both fall.]
     So, now they have shew'd themselves to be tall [94] fellows.

          [Cries within] Part 'em, part 'em!

     BARABAS. Ay, part 'em now they are dead.  Farewell, farewell!
          [Exit above.]

          Enter FERNEZE, KATHARINE, and ATTENDANTS.

     FERNEZE. What sight is this! [95] my Lodovico [96] slain!
     These arms of mine shall be thy sepulchre. [97]

     KATHARINE. Who is this? my son Mathias slain!

     FERNEZE. O Lodowick, hadst thou perish'd by the Turk,
     Wretched Ferneze might have veng'd thy death!

     KATHARINE. Thy son slew mine, and I'll revenge his death.

     FERNEZE. Look, Katharine, look! thy son gave mine these wounds.

     KATHARINE. O, leave to grieve me!  I am griev'd enough.

     FERNEZE. O, that my sighs could turn to lively breath,
     And these my tears to blood, that he might live!

     KATHARINE. Who made them enemies?

     FERNEZE. I know not; and that grieves me most of all.

     KATHARINE. My son lov'd thine.

     FERNEZE. And so did Lodowick him.

     KATHARINE. Lend me that weapon that did kill my son,
     And it shall murder me.

     FERNEZE. Nay, madam, stay; that weapon was my son's,
     And on that rather should Ferneze die.

     KATHARINE. Hold; let's inquire the causers of their deaths,
     That we may venge their blood upon their heads.

     FERNEZE. Then take them up, and let them be interr'd
     Within one sacred monument of stone;
     Upon which altar I will offer up
     My daily sacrifice of sighs and tears,
     And with my prayers pierce impartial heavens,
     Till they [reveal] the causers of our smarts,
     Which forc'd their hands divide united hearts.
     Come, Katharine; [98] our losses equal are;
     Then of true grief let us take equal share.
          [Exeunt with the bodies.]

          Enter ITHAMORE. [99]

     ITHAMORE. Why, was there ever seen such villany,
     So neatly plotted, and so well perform'd?
     Both held in hand, [100] and flatly both beguil'd?

          Enter ABIGAIL.

     ABIGAIL. Why, how now, Ithamore! why laugh'st thou so?

     ITHAMORE. O mistress! ha, ha, ha!

     ABIGAIL. Why, what ail'st thou?

     ITHAMORE. O, my master!

     ABIGAIL. Ha!

     ITHAMORE. O mistress, I have the bravest, gravest, secret,
     subtle, bottle-nosed [101] knave to my master, that ever
     gentleman had!

     ABIGAIL. Say, knave, why rail'st upon my father thus?

     ITHAMORE. O, my master has the bravest policy!

     ABIGAIL. Wherein?

     ITHAMORE. Why, know you not?

     ABIGAIL. Why, no.

     ITHAMORE.
     Know you not of Mathia[s'] and Don Lodowick['s] disaster?

     ABIGAIL. No:  what was it?

     ITHAMORE. Why, the devil inverted a challenge, my master
     writ it, and I carried it, first to Lodowick, and imprimis
     to Mathia[s];
     And then they met, [and], as the story says,
     In doleful wise they ended both their days.

     ABIGAIL. And was my father furtherer of their deaths?

     ITHAMORE. Am I Ithamore?

     ABIGAIL. Yes.

     ITHAMORE.
     So sure did your father write, and I carry the challenge.

     ABIGAIL. Well, Ithamore, let me request thee this;
     Go to the new-made nunnery, and inquire
     For any of the friars of Saint Jaques, [102]
     And say, I pray them come and speak with me.

     ITHAMORE. I pray, mistress, will you answer me to one question?

     ABIGAIL. Well, sirrah, what is't?

     ITHAMORE. A very feeling one:  have not the nuns fine sport with
     the friars now and then?

     ABIGAIL. Go to, Sirrah Sauce! is this your question? get ye gone.

     ITHAMORE. I will, forsooth, mistress.
          [Exit.]

     ABIGAIL. Hard-hearted father, unkind Barabas!
     Was this the pursuit of thy policy,
     To make me shew them favour severally,
     That by my favour they should both be slain?
     Admit thou lov'dst not Lodowick for his sire, [103]
     Yet Don Mathias ne'er offended thee:
     But thou wert set upon extreme revenge,
     Because the prior dispossess'd thee once,
     And couldst not venge it but upon his son;
     Nor on his son but by Mathias' means;
     Nor on Mathias but by murdering me:
     But I perceive there is no love on earth,
     Pity in Jews, nor piety in Turks.--
     But here comes cursed Ithamore with the friar.

          Re-enter ITHAMORE with FRIAR JACOMO.

     FRIAR JACOMO. Virgo, salve.

     ITHAMORE. When duck you?

     ABIGAIL. Welcome, grave friar.--Ithamore, be gone.
          [Exit ITHAMORE.]
     Know, holy sir, I am bold to solicit thee.

     FRIAR JACOMO. Wherein?

     ABIGAIL. To get me be admitted for a nun.

     FRIAR JACOMO. Why, Abigail, it is not yet long since
     That I did labour thy admission,
     And then thou didst not like that holy life.

     ABIGAIL. Then were my thoughts so frail and unconfirm'd
     As [104] I was chain'd to follies of the world:
     But now experience, purchased with grief,
     Has made me see the difference of things.
     My sinful soul, alas, hath pac'd too long
     The fatal labyrinth of misbelief,
     Far from the sun that gives eternal life!

     FRIAR JACOMO. Who taught thee this?

     ABIGAIL. The abbess of the house,
     Whose zealous admonition I embrace:
     O, therefore, Jacomo, let me be one,
     Although unworthy, of that sisterhood!

     FRIAR JACOMO. Abigail, I will:  but see thou change no more,
     For that will be most heavy to thy soul.

     ABIGAIL. That was my father's fault.

     FRIAR JACOMO. Thy father's! how?

     ABIGAIL. Nay, you shall pardon me.--O Barabas,
     Though thou deservest hardly at my hands,
     Yet never shall these lips bewray thy life!
          [Aside.]

     FRIAR JACOMO. Come, shall we go?

     ABIGAIL. My duty waits on you.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter BARABAS, [105] reading a letter.

     BARABAS. What, Abigail become a nun again!
     False and unkind! what, hast thou lost thy father?
     And, all unknown and unconstrain'd of me,
     Art thou again got to the nunnery?
     Now here she writes, and wills me to repent:
     Repentance! Spurca! what pretendeth [106] this?
     I fear she knows--'tis so--of my device
     In Don Mathias' and Lodovico's deaths:
     If so, 'tis time that it be seen into;
     For she that varies from me in belief,
     Gives great presumption that she loves me not,
     Or, loving, doth dislike of something done.--
     But who comes here?

          Enter ITHAMORE.

                         O Ithamore, come near;
     Come near, my love; come near, thy master's life,
     My trusty servant, nay, my second self; [107]
     For I have now no hope but even in thee,
     And on that hope my happiness is built.
     When saw'st thou Abigail?

     ITHAMORE. To-day.

     BARABAS. With whom?

     ITHAMORE. A friar.

     BARABAS. A friar! false villain, he hath done the deed.

     ITHAMORE. How, sir!

     BARABAS. Why, made mine Abigail a nun.

     ITHAMORE. That's no lie; for she sent me for him.

     BARABAS. O unhappy day!
     False, credulous, inconstant Abigail!
     But let 'em go:  and, Ithamore, from hence
     Ne'er shall she grieve me more with her disgrace;
     Ne'er shall she live to inherit aught of mine,
     Be bless'd of me, nor come within my gates,
     But perish underneath my bitter curse,
     Like Cain by Adam for his brother's death.

     ITHAMORE. O master--

     BARABAS. Ithamore, entreat not for her; I am mov'd,
     And she is hateful to my soul and me:
     And, 'less [108] thou yield to this that I entreat,
     I cannot think but that thou hat'st my life.

     ITHAMORE. Who, I, master? why, I'll run to some rock,
     And throw myself headlong into the sea;
     Why, I'll do any thing for your sweet sake.

     BARABAS. O trusty Ithamore! no servant, but my friend!
     I here adopt thee for mine only heir:
     All that I have is thine when I am dead;
     And, whilst I live, use half; spend as myself;
     Here, take my keys,--I'll give 'em thee anon;
     Go buy thee garments; but thou shalt not want:
     Only know this, that thus thou art to do--
     But first go fetch me in the pot of rice
     That for our supper stands upon the fire.

     ITHAMORE. I hold my head, my master's hungry [Aside].--I go, sir.
          [Exit.]

     BARABAS. Thus every villain ambles after wealth,
     Although he ne'er be richer than in hope:--
     But, husht!

          Re-enter ITHAMORE with the pot.

     ITHAMORE. Here 'tis, master.

     BARABAS. Well said, [109] Ithamore!  What, hast thou brought
     The ladle with thee too?

     ITHAMORE. Yes, sir; the proverb says, [110] he that eats with the
     devil had need of a long spoon; I have brought you a ladle.

     BARABAS. Very well, Ithamore; then now be secret;
     And, for thy sake, whom I so dearly love,
     Now shalt thou see the death of Abigail,
     That thou mayst freely live to be my heir.

     ITHAMORE. Why, master, will you poison her with a mess of rice-
     porridge? that will preserve life, make her round and plump, and
     batten [111] more than you are aware.

     BARABAS. Ay, but, Ithamore, seest thou this?
     It is a precious powder that I bought
     Of an Italian, in Ancona, once,
     Whose operation is to bind, infect,
     And poison deeply, yet not appear
     In forty hours after it is ta'en.

     ITHAMORE. How, master?

     BARABAS. Thus, Ithamore:
     This even they use in Malta here,--'tis call'd
     Saint Jaques' Even,--and then, I say, they use
     To send their alms unto the nunneries:
     Among the rest, bear this, and set it there:
     There's a dark entry where they take it in,
     Where they must neither see the messenger,
     Nor make inquiry who hath sent it them.

     ITHAMORE. How so?

     BARABAS. Belike there is some ceremony in't.
     There, Ithamore, must thou go place this pot: [112]
     Stay; let me spice it first.

     ITHAMORE. Pray, do, and let me help you, master.
     Pray, let me taste first.

     BARABAS. Prithee, do.[ITHAMORE tastes.]  What say'st thou now?

     ITHAMORE. Troth, master, I'm loath such a pot of pottage should
     be spoiled.

     BARABAS. Peace, Ithamore! 'tis better so than spar'd.
          [Puts the powder into the pot.]
     Assure thyself thou shalt have broth by the eye: [113]
     My purse, my coffer, and myself is thine.

     ITHAMORE. Well, master, I go.

     BARABAS. Stay; first let me stir it, Ithamore.
     As fatal be it to her as the draught
     Of which great Alexander drunk, and died;
     And with her let it work like Borgia's wine,
     Whereof his sire the Pope was poisoned!
     In few, [114] the blood of Hydra, Lerna's bane,
     The juice of hebon, [115] and Cocytus' breath,
     And all the poisons of the Stygian pool,
     Break from the fiery kingdom, and in this
     Vomit your venom, and envenom her
     That, like a fiend, hath left her father thus!

     ITHAMORE. What a blessing has he given't! was ever pot of
     rice-porridge so sauced? [Aside].--What shall I do with it?

     BARABAS. O my sweet Ithamore, go set it down;
     And come again so soon as thou hast done,
     For I have other business for thee.

     ITHAMORE. Here's a drench to poison a whole stable of Flanders
     mares:  I'll carry't to the nuns with a powder.

     BARABAS. And the horse-pestilence to boot:  away!

     ITHAMORE. I am gone:
     Pay me my wages, for my work is done.
          [Exit with the pot.]

     BARABAS. I'll pay thee with a vengeance, Ithamore!
          [Exit.]

          Enter FERNEZE, [116] MARTIN DEL BOSCO, KNIGHTS, and BASSO.

     FERNEZE. Welcome, great basso: [117]  how fares Calymath?
     What wind drives you thus into Malta-road?

     BASSO. The wind that bloweth all the world besides,
     Desire of gold.

     FERNEZE. Desire of gold, great sir!
     That's to be gotten in the Western Inde:
     In Malta are no golden minerals.

     BASSO. To you of Malta thus saith Calymath:
     The time you took for respite is at hand
     For the performance of your promise pass'd;
     And for the tribute-money I am sent.

     FERNEZE. Basso, in brief, shalt have no tribute here,
     Nor shall the heathens live upon our spoil:
     First will we raze the city-walls ourselves,
     Lay waste the island, hew the temples down,
     And, shipping off our goods to Sicily,
     Open an entrance for the wasteful sea,
     Whose billows, beating the resistless banks, [118]
     Shall overflow it with their refluence.

     BASSO. Well, governor, since thou hast broke the league
     By flat denial of the promis'd tribute,
     Talk not of razing down your city-walls;
     You shall not need trouble yourselves so far,
     For Selim Calymath shall come himself,
     And with brass bullets batter down your towers,
     And turn proud Malta to a wilderness,
     For these intolerable wrongs of yours:
     And so, farewell.

     FERNEZE. Farewell.
          [Exit BASSO.]
     And now, you men of Malta, look about,
     And let's provide to welcome Calymath:
     Close your port-cullis, charge your basilisks, [119]
     And, as you profitably take up arms,
     So now courageously encounter them,
     For by this answer broken is the league,
     And naught is to be look'd for now but wars,
     And naught to us more welcome is than wars.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter FRIAR JACOMO [120] and FRIAR BARNARDINE.

     FRIAR JACOMO. O brother, brother, all the nuns are sick,
     And physic will not help them! they must die.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. The abbess sent for me to be confess'd:
     O, what a sad confession will there be!

     FRIAR JACOMO. And so did fair Maria send for me:
     I'll to her lodging; hereabouts she lies.
          [Exit.]

          Enter ABIGAIL.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. What, all dead, save only Abigail!

     ABIGAIL. And I shall die too, for I feel death coming.
     Where is the friar that convers'd with me? [121]

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. O, he is gone to see the other nuns.

     ABIGAIL. I sent for him; but, seeing you are come,
     Be you my ghostly father:  and first know,
     That in this house I liv'd religiously,
     Chaste, and devout, much sorrowing for my sins;
     But, ere I came--

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. What then?

     ABIGAIL. I did offend high heaven so grievously
     As I am almost desperate for my sins;
     And one offense torments me more than all.
     You knew Mathias and Don Lodowick?

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. Yes; what of them?

     ABIGAIL. My father did contract me to 'em both;
     First to Don Lodowick:  him I never lov'd;
     Mathias was the man that I held dear,
     And for his sake did I become a nun.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. So:  say how was their end?

     ABIGAIL. Both, jealous of my love, envied [122] each other;
     And by my father's practice, [123] which is there
          [Gives writing.]
     Set down at large, the gallants were both slain.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. O, monstrous villany!

     ABIGAIL. To work my peace, this I confess to thee:
     Reveal it not; for then my father dies.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. Know that confession must not be reveal'd;
     The canon-law forbids it, and the priest
     That makes it known, being degraded first,
     Shall be condemn'd, and then sent to the fire.

     ABIGAIL. So I have heard; pray, therefore, keep it close.
     Death seizeth on my heart:  ah, gentle friar,
     Convert my father that he may be sav'd,
     And witness that I die a Christian!
          [Dies.]

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. Ay, and a virgin too; that grieves me most.
     But I must to the Jew, and exclaim on him,
     And make him stand in fear of me.

          Re-enter FRIAR JACOMO.

     FRIAR JACOMO. O brother, all the nuns are dead! let's bury them.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. First help to bury this; then go with me,
     And help me to exclaim against the Jew.

     FRIAR JACOMO. Why, what has he done?

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. A thing that makes me tremble to unfold.

     FRIAR JACOMO. What, has he crucified a child? [124]

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. No, but a worse thing: 'twas told me in shrift;
     Thou know'st 'tis death, an if it be reveal'd.
     Come, let's away.
          [Exeunt.]

ACT IV.

          Enter BARABAS [125] and ITHAMORE.  Bells within.

     BARABAS. There is no music to [126] a Christian's knell:
     How sweet the bells ring, now the nuns are dead,
     That sound at other times like tinkers' pans!
     I was afraid the poison had not wrought,
     Or, though it wrought, it would have done no good,
     For every year they swell, and yet they live:
     Now all are dead, not one remains alive.

     ITHAMORE.
     That's brave, master:  but think you it will not be known?

     BARABAS. How can it, if we two be secret?

     ITHAMORE. For my part, fear you not.

     BARABAS. I'd cut thy throat, if I did.

     ITHAMORE. And reason too.
     But here's a royal monastery hard by;
     Good master, let me poison all the monks.

     BARABAS. Thou shalt not need; for, now the nuns are dead,
     They'll die with grief.

     ITHAMORE. Do you not sorrow for your daughter's death?

     BARABAS. No, but I grieve because she liv'd so long,
     An Hebrew born, and would become a Christian:
     Cazzo, [127] diabolo!

     ITHAMORE.
     Look, look, master; here come two religious caterpillars.

          Enter FRIAR JACOMO and FRIAR BARNARDINE.

     BARABAS. I smelt 'em ere they came.

     ITHAMORE. God-a-mercy, nose! [128] Come, let's begone.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. Stay, wicked Jew; repent, I say, and stay.

     FRIAR JACOMO. Thou hast offended, therefore must be damn'd.

     BARABAS. I fear they know we sent the poison'd broth.

     ITHAMORE. And so do I, master; therefore speak 'em fair.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. Barabas, thou hast--

     FRIAR JACOMO. Ay, that thou hast--

     BARABAS. True, I have money; what though I have?

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. Thou art a--

     FRIAR JACOMO. Ay, that thou art, a--

     BARABAS. What needs all this? I know I am a Jew.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. Thy daughter--

     FRIAR JACOMO. Ay, thy daughter--

     BARABAS. O, speak not of her! then I die with grief.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. Remember that--

     FRIAR JACOMO. Ay, remember that--

     BARABAS. I must needs say that I have been a great usurer.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. Thou hast committed--

     BARABAS. Fornication:  but that was in another country;
     And besides, the wench is dead.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. Ay, but, Barabas,
     Remember Mathias and Don Lodowick.

     BARABAS. Why, what of them?

     FRIAR BARNARDINE.
     I will not say that by a forged challenge they met.

     BARABAS. She has confess'd, and we are both undone,
     My bosom inmate! [129] but I must dissemble.--
          [Aside to ITHAMORE.]
     O holy friars, the burden of my sins
     Lie heavy [130] on my soul! then, pray you, tell me,
     Is't not too late now to turn Christian?
     I have been zealous in the Jewish faith,
     Hard-hearted to the poor, a covetous wretch,
     That would for lucre's sake have sold my soul;
     A hundred for a hundred I have ta'en;
     And now for store of wealth may I compare
     With all the Jews in Malta:  but what is wealth?
     I am a Jew, and therefore am I lost.
     Would penance serve [to atone] for this my sin,
     I could afford to whip myself to death,--

     ITHAMORE. And so could I; but penance will not serve.

     BARABAS. To fast, to pray, and wear a shirt of hair,
     And on my knees creep to Jerusalem.
     Cellars of wine, and sollars [131] full of wheat,
     Warehouses stuff'd with spices and with drugs,
     Whole chests of gold in bullion and in coin,
     Besides, I know not how much weight in pearl
     Orient and round, have I within my house;
     At Alexandria merchandise untold; [132]
     But yesterday two ships went from this town,
     Their voyage will be worth ten thousand crowns;
     In Florence, Venice, Antwerp, London, Seville,
     Frankfort, Lubeck, Moscow, and where not,
     Have I debts owing; and, in most of these,
     Great sums of money lying in the banco;
     All this I'll give to some religious house,
     So I may be baptiz'd, and live therein.

     FRIAR JACOMO. O good Barabas, come to our house!

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. O, no, good Barabas, come to our house!
     And, Barabas, you know--

     BARABAS. I know that I have highly sinn'd:
     You shall convert me, you shall have all my wealth.

     FRIAR JACOMO. O Barabas, their laws are strict!

     BARABAS. I know they are; and I will be with you.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. They wear no shirts, and they go bare-foot too.

     BARABAS. Then 'tis not for me; and I am resolv'd
     You shall confess me, and have all my goods.

     FRIAR JACOMO. Good Barabas, come to me.

     BARABAS. You see I answer him, and yet he stays;
     Rid him away, and go you home with me.

     FRIAR JACOMO. I'll be with you to-night.

     BARABAS. Come to my house at one o'clock this night.

     FRIAR JACOMO. You hear your answer, and you may be gone.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. Why, go, get you away.

     FRIAR JACOMO. I will not go for thee.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. Not! then I'll make thee go.

     FRIAR JACOMO. How! dost call me rogue?

          [They fight.]

     ITHAMORE. Part 'em, master, part 'em.

     BARABAS. This is mere frailty:  brethren, be content.--
     Friar Barnardine, go you with Ithamore:
     You know my mind; let me alone with him.

     FRIAR JACOMO. Why does he go to thy house? let him be gone. [133]

     BARABAS. I'll give him something, and so stop his mouth.
          [Exit ITHAMORE with Friar BARNARDINE.]
     I never heard of any man but he
     Malign'd the order of the Jacobins:
     But do you think that I believe his words?
     Why, brother, you converted Abigail;
     And I am bound in charity to requite it,
     And so I will.  O Jacomo, fail not, but come.

     FRIAR JACOMO. But, Barabas, who shall be your godfathers?
     For presently you shall be shriv'd.

     BARABAS. Marry, the Turk [134] shall be one of my godfathers,
     But not a word to any of your covent. [135]

     FRIAR JACOMO. I warrant thee, Barabas.
          [Exit.]

     BARABAS. So, now the fear is past, and I am safe;
     For he that shriv'd her is within my house:
     What, if I murder'd him ere Jacomo comes?
     Now I have such a plot for both their lives,
     As never Jew nor Christian knew the like:
     One turn'd my daughter, therefore he shall die;
     The other knows enough to have my life,
     Therefore 'tis not requisite he should live. [136]
     But are not both these wise men, to suppose
     That I will leave my house, my goods, and all,
     To fast and be well whipt?  I'll none of that.
     Now, Friar Barnardine, I come to you:
     I'll feast you, lodge you, give you fair [137] words,
     And, after that, I and my trusty Turk--
     No more, but so:  it must and shall be done. [138]

          Enter ITHAMORE.

     Ithamore, tell me, is the friar asleep?

     ITHAMORE. Yes; and I know not what the reason is,
     Do what I can, he will not strip himself,
     Nor go to bed, but sleeps in his own clothes:
     I fear me he mistrusts what we intend.

     BARABAS. No; 'tis an order which the friars use:
     Yet, if he knew our meanings, could he scape?

     ITHAMORE. No, none can hear him, cry he ne'er so loud.

     BARABAS. Why, true; therefore did I place him there:
     The other chambers open towards the street.

     ITHAMORE. You loiter, master; wherefore stay we thus?
     O, how I long to see him shake his heels!

     BARABAS. Come on, sirrah:
     Off with your girdle; make a handsome noose.--
          [ITHAMORE takes off his girdle, and ties a noose on it.]
     Friar, awake! [139]
          [They put the noose round the FRIAR'S neck.]

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. What, do you mean to strangle me?

     ITHAMORE. Yes, 'cause you use to confess.

     BARABAS. Blame not us, but the proverb,--Confess and be
     hanged.--Pull hard.

     FRIAR BARNARDINE. What, will you have [140] my life?

     BARABAS. Pull hard, I say.--You would have had my goods.

     ITHAMORE. Ay, and our lives too:--therefore pull amain.
          [They strangle the FRIAR.]
     'Tis neatly done, sir; here's no print at all.

     BARABAS. Then is it as it should be.  Take him up.

     ITHAMORE. Nay, master, be ruled by me a little.  [Takes the body,
     sets it upright against the wall, and puts a staff in its hand.]
     So, let him lean upon his staff; excellent! he stands as if he
     were begging of bacon.

     BARABAS. Who would not think but that this friar liv'd?
     What time o' night is't now, sweet Ithamore?

     ITHAMORE. Towards one. [141]

     BARABAS. Then will not Jacomo be long from hence.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter FRIAR JACOMO. [142]

     FRIAR JACOMO. This is the hour wherein I shall proceed; [143]
     O happy hour, wherein I shall convert
     An infidel, and bring his gold into our treasury!
     But soft! is not this Barnardine? it is;
     And, understanding I should come this way,
     Stands here o' purpose, meaning me some wrong,
     And intercept my going to the Jew.--
     Barnardine!
     Wilt thou not speak? thou think'st I see thee not;
     Away, I'd wish thee, and let me go by:
     No, wilt thou not? nay, then, I'll force my way;
     And, see, a staff stands ready for the purpose.
     As thou lik'st that, stop me another time!
          [Takes the staff, and strikes down the body.]

          Enter BARABAS and ITHAMORE.

     BARABAS. Why, how now, Jacomo! what hast thou done?

     FRIAR JACOMO. Why, stricken him that would have struck at me.

     BARABAS. Who is it? Barnardine! now, out, alas, he is slain!

     ITHAMORE. Ay, master, he's slain; look how his brains drop out
     on's [144] nose.

     FRIAR JACOMO. Good sirs, I have done't:  but nobody knows it but
     you two; I may escape.

     BARABAS. So might my man and I hang with you for company.

     ITHAMORE. No; let us bear him to the magistrates.

     FRIAR JACOMO. Good Barabas, let me go.

     BARABAS. No, pardon me; the law must have his course:
     I must be forc'd to give in evidence,
     That, being importun'd by this Barnardine
     To be a Christian, I shut him out,
     And there he sate:  now I, to keep my word,
     And give my goods and substance to your house,
     Was up thus early, with intent to go
     Unto your friary, because you stay'd.

     ITHAMORE. Fie upon 'em! master, will you turn Christian, when
     holy friars turn devils and murder one another?

     BARABAS. No; for this example I'll remain a Jew:
     Heaven bless me! what, a friar a murderer!
     When shall you see a Jew commit the like?

     ITHAMORE. Why, a Turk could ha' done no more.

     BARABAS. To-morrow is the sessions; you shall to it.--
     Come, Ithamore, let's help to take him hence.

     FRIAR JACOMO. Villains, I am a sacred person; touch me not.

     BARABAS. The law shall touch you; we'll but lead you, we:
     'Las, I could weep at your calamity!--
     Take in the staff too, for that must be shown:
     Law wills that each particular be known.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter BELLAMIRA [145] and PILIA-BORZA.

     BELLAMIRA. Pilia-Borza, didst thou meet with Ithamore?

     PILIA-BORZA. I did.

     BELLAMIRA. And didst thou deliver my letter?

     PILIA-BORZA. I did.

     BELLAMIRA. And what thinkest thou? will he come?

     PILIA-BORZA. I think so:  and yet I cannot tell; for, at the
     reading of the letter, he looked like a man of another world.

     BELLAMIRA. Why so?

     PILIA-BORZA. That such a base slave as he should be saluted by
     such a tall [146] man as I am, from such a beautiful dame as you.

     BELLAMIRA. And what said he?

     PILIA-BORZA. Not a wise word; only gave me a nod, as who should
     say, "Is it even so?" and so I left him, being driven to a
     non-plus at the critical aspect of my terrible countenance.

     BELLAMIRA. And where didst meet him?

     PILIA-BORZA. Upon mine own free-hold, within forty foot of the
     gallows, conning his neck-verse, [147] I take it, looking of [148]
     a friar's execution; whom I saluted with an old hempen proverb,
     Hodie tibi, cras mihi, and so I left him to the mercy of the
     hangman:  but, the exercise [149] being done, see where he comes.

          Enter ITHAMORE.

     ITHAMORE. I never knew a man take his death so patiently as
     this friar; he was ready to leap off ere the halter was about
     his neck; and, when the hangman had put on his hempen tippet,
     he made such haste to his prayers, as if he had had another
     cure to serve.  Well, go whither he will, I'll be none of his
     followers in haste:  and, now I think on't, going to the
     execution, a fellow met me with a muschatoes [150] like a raven's
     wing, and a dagger with a hilt like a warming-pan; and he gave
     me a letter from one Madam Bellamira, saluting me in such sort
     as if he had meant to make clean my boots with his lips; the
     effect was, that I should come to her house:  I wonder what the
     reason is; it may be she sees more in me than I can find in
     myself; for she writes further, that she loves me ever since she
     saw me; and who would not requite such love?  Here's her house;
     and here she comes; and now would I were gone!  I am not worthy
     to look upon her.

     PILIA-BORZA. This is the gentleman you writ to.

     ITHAMORE. Gentleman! he flouts me:  what gentry can be in a poor
     Turk of tenpence? [151]  I'll be gone.
          [Aside.]

     BELLAMIRA. Is't not a sweet-faced youth, Pilia?

     ITHAMORE. Again, sweet youth! [Aside.]--Did not you, sir, bring
     the sweet youth a letter?

     PILIA-BORZA. I did, sir, and from this gentlewoman, who, as
     myself and the rest of the family, stand or fall at your service.

     BELLAMIRA. Though woman's modesty should hale me back,
     I can withhold no longer:  welcome, sweet love.

     ITHAMORE. Now am I clean, or rather foully, out of the way.
          [Aside.]

     BELLAMIRA. Whither so soon?

     ITHAMORE. I'll go steal some money from my master to make me
     handsome [Aside].--Pray, pardon me; I must go see a ship
     discharged.

     BELLAMIRA. Canst thou be so unkind to leave me thus?

     PILIA-BORZA. An ye did but know how she loves you, sir!

     ITHAMORE. Nay, I care not how much she loves me.--Sweet
     Bellamira, would I had my master's wealth for thy sake!

     PILIA-BORZA. And you can have it, sir, an if you please.

     ITHAMORE. If 'twere above ground, I could, and would have it;
     but he hides and buries it up, as partridges do their eggs,
     under the earth.

     PILIA-BORZA. And is't not possible to find it out?

     ITHAMORE. By no means possible.

     BELLAMIRA. What shall we do with this base villain, then?
          [Aside to PILIA-BORZA.]

     PILIA-BORZA. Let me alone; do but you speak him fair.--
          [Aside to her.]
     But you know [152] some secrets of the Jew,
     Which, if they were reveal'd, would do him harm.

     ITHAMORE. Ay, and such as--go to, no more! I'll make him [153]
     send me half he has, and glad he scapes so too:  I'll write unto
     him; we'll have money straight.

     PILIA-BORZA. Send for a hundred crowns at least.

     ITHAMORE. Ten hundred thousand crowns.--[writing] MASTER BARABAS,--

     PILIA-BORZA. Write not so submissively, but threatening him.

     ITHAMORE. [writing] SIRRAH BARABAS, SEND ME A HUNDRED CROWNS.

     PILIA-BORZA. Put in two hundred at least.

     ITHAMORE. [writing] I CHARGE THEE SEND ME THREE HUNDRED BY THIS
     BEARER, AND THIS SHALL BE YOUR WARRANT:  IF YOU DO NOT--NO MORE,
     BUT SO.

     PILIA-BORZA. Tell him you will confess.

     ITHAMORE. [writing] OTHERWISE I'LL CONFESS ALL.--
     Vanish, and return in a twinkle.

     PILIA-BORZA. Let me alone; I'll use him in his kind.

     ITHAMORE. Hang him, Jew!
          [Exit PILIA-BORZA with the letter.]

     BELLAMIRA. Now, gentle Ithamore, lie in my lap.--
     Where are my maids? provide a cunning [154] banquet;
     Send to the merchant, bid him bring me silks;
     Shall Ithamore, my love, go in such rags?

     ITHAMORE. And bid the jeweller come hither too.

     BELLAMIRA. I have no husband; sweet, I'll marry thee.

     ITHAMORE. Content:  but we will leave this paltry land,
     And sail from hence to Greece, to lovely Greece;--
     I'll be thy Jason, thou my golden fleece;--
     Where painted carpets o'er the meads are hurl'd,
     And Bacchus' vineyards overspread the world;
     Where woods and forests go in goodly green;--
     I'll be Adonis, thou shalt be Love's Queen;--
     The meads, the orchards, and the primrose-lanes,
     Instead of sedge and reed, bear sugar-canes:
     Thou in those groves, by Dis above,
     Shalt live with me, and be my love. [155]

     BELLAMIRA. Whither will I not go with gentle Ithamore?

          Re-enter PILIA-BORZA.

     ITHAMORE. How now! hast thou the gold [?]

     PILIA-BORZA. Yes.

     ITHAMORE. But came it freely? did the cow give down her milk
     freely?

     PILIA-BORZA. At reading of the letter, he stared and stamped,
     and turned aside:  I took him by the beard, [156] and looked upon
     him thus; told him he were best to send it:  then he hugged and
     embraced me.

     ITHAMORE. Rather for fear than love.

     PILIA-BORZA. Then, like a Jew, he laughed and jeered, and told
     me he loved me for your sake, and said what a faithful servant
     you had been.

     ITHAMORE. The more villain he to keep me thus:  here's goodly
     'parel, is there not?

     PILIA-BORZA. To conclude, he gave me ten crowns.
          [Delivers the money to ITHAMORE.]

     ITHAMORE. But ten? I'll not leave him worth a grey groat.  Give
     me a ream of paper:  we'll have a kingdom of gold for't. [157]

     PILIA-BORZA. Write for five hundred crowns.

     ITHAMORE. [writing] SIRRAH JEW, AS YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE, SEND ME
     FIVE HUNDRED CROWNS, AND GIVE THE BEARER A HUNDRED.--Tell him
     I must have't.

     PILIA-BORZA. I warrant, your worship shall have't.

     ITHAMORE. And, if he ask why I demand so much, tell him I scorn
     to write a line under a hundred crowns.

     PILIA-BORZA. You'd make a rich poet, sir.  I am gone.
          [Exit with the letter.]

     ITHAMORE. Take thou the money; spend it for my sake.

     BELLAMIRA. 'Tis not thy money, but thyself I weigh:
     Thus Bellamira esteems of gold;
          [Throws it aside.]
     But thus of thee.
          [Kisses him.]

     ITHAMORE. That kiss again!--She runs division [158] of my
     lips.  What an eye she casts on me! it twinkles like a star.
          [Aside.]

     BELLAMIRA. Come, my dear love, let's in and sleep together.

     ITHAMORE. O, that ten thousand nights were put in one, that
     we might sleep seven years together afore we wake!

     BELLAMIRA. Come, amorous wag, first banquet, and then sleep.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter BARABAS, [159] reading a letter.

     BARABAS. BARABAS, SEND ME THREE HUNDRED CROWNS;--
     Plain Barabas!  O, that wicked courtezan!
     He was not wont to call me Barabas;--
     OR ELSE I WILL CONFESS;--ay, there it goes:
     But, if I get him, coupe de gorge for that.
     He sent a shaggy, tatter'd, [160] staring slave,
     That, when he speaks, draws out his grisly beard,
     And winds it twice or thrice about his ear;
     Whose face has been a grind-stone for men's swords;
     His hands are hack'd, some fingers cut quite off;
     Who, when he speaks, grunts like a hog, and looks
     Like one that is employ'd in catzery [161]
     And cross-biting; [162] such a rogue
     As is the husband to a hundred whores;
     And I by him must send three hundred crowns.
     Well, my hope is, he will not stay there still;
     And, when he comes--O, that he were but here!

          Enter PILIA-BORZA.

     PILIA-BORZA. Jew, I must ha' more gold.

     BARABAS. Why, want'st thou any of thy tale? [163]

     PILIA-BORZA. No; but three hundred will not serve his turn.

     BARABAS. Not serve his turn, sir!

     PILIA-BORZA.
     No, sir; and therefore I must have five hundred more.

     BARABAS. I'll rather----

     PILIA-BORZA. O, good words, sir, and send it you were best! see,
     there's his letter.
          [Gives letter.]

     BARABAS. Might he not as well come as send? pray, bid him come
     and fetch it:  what he writes for you, [164] ye shall have
     straight.

     PILIA-BORZA. Ay, and the rest too, or else----

     BARABAS. I must make this villain away [Aside].--Please you dine
     with me, sir--and you shall be most heartily poisoned.
          [Aside.]

     PILIA-BORZA. No, God-a-mercy.  Shall I have these crowns?

     BARABAS. I cannot do it; I have lost my keys.

     PILIA-BORZA. O, if that be all, I can pick ope your locks.

     BARABAS.
     Or climb up to my counting-house window:  you know my meaning.

     PILIA-BORZA. I know enough, and therefore talk not to me of
     your counting-house.  The gold! or know, Jew, it is in my power
     to hang thee.

     BARABAS. I am betray'd.--
          [Aside.]
     'Tis not five hundred crowns that I esteem;
     I am not mov'd at that:  this angers me,
     That he, who knows I love him as myself,
     Should write in this imperious vein.  Why, sir,
     You know I have no child, and unto whom
     Should I leave all, but unto Ithamore?

     PILIA-BORZA. Here's many words, but no crowns:  the crowns!

     BARABAS. Commend me to him, sir, most humbly,
     And unto your good mistress as unknown.

     PILIA-BORZA. Speak, shall I have 'em, sir?

     BARABAS. Sir, here they are.--
          [Gives money.]
     O, that I should part [165] with so much gold!--
          [Aside.]
     Here, take 'em, fellow, with as good a will----
     As I would see thee hang'd [Aside].  O, love stops my breath!
     Never lov'd man servant as I do Ithamore.

     PILIA-BORZA. I know it, sir.

     BARABAS. Pray, when, sir, shall I see you at my house?

     PILIA-BORZA. Soon enough to your cost, sir.  Fare you well.
          [Exit.]

     BARABAS. Nay, to thine own cost, villain, if thou com'st!
     Was ever Jew tormented as I am?
     To have a shag-rag knave to come [force from me]
     Three hundred crowns, and then five hundred crowns!
     Well; I must seek a means to rid [166] 'em all,
     And presently; for in his villany
     He will tell all he knows, and I shall die for't.
     I have it:
     I will in some disguise go see the slave,
     And how the villain revels with my gold.
          [Exit.]

          Enter BELLAMIRA, [167] ITHAMORE, and PILIA-BORZA.

     BELLAMIRA. I'll pledge thee, love, and therefore drink it off.

     ITHAMORE. Say'st thou me so? have at it! and do you hear?
          [Whispers to her.]

     BELLAMIRA. Go to, it shall be so.

     ITHAMORE. Of [168] that condition I will drink it up:
     Here's to thee.

     BELLAMIRA. [169] Nay, I'll have all or none.

     ITHAMORE. There, if thou lov'st me, do not leave a drop.

     BELLAMIRA. Love thee! fill me three glasses.

     ITHAMORE. Three and fifty dozen:  I'll pledge thee.

     PILIA-BORZA. Knavely spoke, and like a knight-at-arms.

     ITHAMORE. Hey, Rivo Castiliano! [170] a man's a man.

     BELLAMIRA. Now to the Jew.

     ITHAMORE. Ha! to the Jew; and send me money he [171] were best.

     PILIA-BORZA. What wouldst thou do, if he should send thee none?

     ITHAMORE. Do nothing:  but I know what I know; he's a murderer.

     BELLAMIRA. I had not thought he had been so brave a man.

     ITHAMORE. You knew Mathias and the governor's son; he and I
     killed 'em both, and yet never touched 'em.

     PILIA-BORZA. O, bravely done!

     ITHAMORE. I carried the broth that poisoned the nuns; and he
     and I, snicle hand too fast, strangled a friar. [172]

     BELLAMIRA. You two alone?

     ITHAMORE.
     We two; and 'twas never known, nor never shall be for me.

     PILIA-BORZA. This shall with me unto the governor.
          [Aside to BELLAMIRA.]

     BELLAMIRA. And fit it should:  but first let's ha' more gold.--
          [Aside to PILIA-BORZA.]
     Come, gentle Ithamore, lie in my lap.

     ITHAMORE. Love me little, love me long:  let music rumble,
     Whilst I in thy incony [173] lap do tumble.

          Enter BARABAS, disguised as a French musician, with a lute,
          and a nosegay in his hat.

     BELLAMIRA. A French musician!--Come, let's hear your skill.

     BARABAS. Must tuna my lute for sound, twang, twang, first.

     ITHAMORE. Wilt drink, Frenchman? here's to thee with a--Pox on
     this drunken hiccup!

     BARABAS. Gramercy, monsieur.

     BELLAMIRA. Prithee, Pilia-Borza, bid the fiddler give me the
     posy in his hat there.

     PILIA-BORZA. Sirrah, you must give my mistress your posy.

     BARABAS. A votre commandement, madame.
          [Giving nosegay.]

     BELLAMIRA. How sweet, my Ithamore, the flowers smell!

     ITHAMORE. Like thy breath, sweetheart; no violet like 'em.

     PILIA-BORZA. Foh! methinks they stink like a hollyhock. [174]

     BARABAS. So, now I am reveng'd upon 'em all:
     The scent thereof was death; I poison'd it.
          [Aside.]

     ITHAMORE.
     Play, fiddler, or I'll cut your cat's guts into chitterlings.

     BARABAS.
     Pardonnez moi, be no in tune yet:  so, now, now all be in.

     ITHAMORE. Give him a crown, and fill me out more wine.

     PILIA-BORZA. There's two crowns for thee:  play.
          [Giving money.]

     BARABAS. How liberally the villain gives me mine own gold!
          [Aside, and then plays.]

     PILIA-BORZA. Methinks he fingers very well.

     BARABAS. So did you when you stole my gold.
          [Aside.]

     PILIA-BORZA. How swift he runs!

     BARABAS. You run swifter when you threw my gold out of my window.
          [Aside.]

     BELLAMIRA. Musician, hast been in Malta long?

     BARABAS. Two, three, four month, madam.

     ITHAMORE. Dost not know a Jew, one Barabas?

     BARABAS. Very mush:  monsieur, you no be his man?

     PILIA-BORZA. His man!

     ITHAMORE. I scorn the peasant:  tell him so.

     BARABAS. He knows it already.
          [Aside.]

     ITHAMORE. 'Tis a strange thing of that Jew, he lives upon
     pickled grasshoppers and sauced mushrooms. [175]

     BARABAS. What a slave's this! the governor feeds not as I do.
          [Aside.]

     ITHAMORE. He never put on clean shirt since he was circumcised.

     BARABAS. O rascal! I change myself twice a-day.
          [Aside.]

     ITHAMORE. The hat he wears, Judas left under the elder when he
     hanged himself. [176]

     BARABAS. 'Twas sent me for a present from the Great Cham.
          [Aside.]

     PILIA-BORZA. A nasty [177] slave he is.--Whither now, fiddler?

     BARABAS. Pardonnez moi, monsieur; me [178] be no well.

     PILIA-BORZA. Farewell, fiddler [Exit BARABAS.] One letter more
     to the Jew.

     BELLAMIRA. Prithee, sweet love, one more, and write it sharp.

     ITHAMORE. No, I'll send by word of mouth now.
     --Bid him deliver thee a thousand crowns, by the same token
     that the nuns loved rice, that Friar Barnardine slept in his
     own clothes; any of 'em will do it.

     PILIA-BORZA. Let me alone to urge it, now I know the meaning.

     ITHAMORE. The meaning has a meaning.  Come, let's in:
     To undo a Jew is charity, and not sin.
          [Exeunt.]

ACT V.

          Enter FERNEZE, [179] KNIGHTS, MARTIN DEL BOSCO, and OFFICERS.

     FERNEZE. Now, gentlemen, betake you to your arms,
     And see that Malta be well fortified;
     And it behoves you to be resolute;
     For Calymath, having hover'd here so long,
     Will win the town, or die before the walls.

     FIRST KNIGHT. And die he shall; for we will never yield.

          Enter BELLAMIRA and PILIA-BORZA.

     BELLAMIRA. O, bring us to the governor!

     FERNEZE. Away with her! she is a courtezan.

     BELLAMIRA. Whate'er I am, yet, governor, hear me speak:
     I bring thee news by whom thy son was slain:
     Mathias did it not; it was the Jew.

     PILIA-BORZA. Who, besides the slaughter of these gentlemen,
     Poison'd his own daughter and the nuns,
     Strangled a friar, and I know not what
     Mischief beside.

     FERNEZE. Had we but proof of this----

     BELLAMIRA. Strong proof, my lord:  his man's now at my lodging,
     That was his agent; he'll confess it all.

     FERNEZE. Go fetch him [180] straight [Exeunt OFFICERS].
     I always fear'd that Jew.

          Re-enter OFFICERS with BARABAS and ITHAMORE.

     BARABAS. I'll go alone; dogs, do not hale me thus.

     ITHAMORE.
     Nor me neither; I cannot out-run you, constable.--O, my belly!

     BARABAS. One dram of powder more had made all sure:
     What a damn'd slave was I!
          [Aside.]

     FERNEZE. Make fires, heat irons, let the rack be fetch'd.

     FIRST KNIGHT. Nay, stay, my lord; 't may be he will confess.

     BARABAS. Confess! what mean you, lords? who should confess?

     FERNEZE. Thou and thy Turk; 'twas that slew my son.

     ITHAMORE. Guilty, my lord, I confess.  Your son and Mathias
     were both contracted unto Abigail: [he] forged a counterfeit
     challenge.

     BARABAS. Who carried that challenge?

     ITHAMORE.
     I carried it, I confess; but who writ it? marry, even he that
     strangled Barnardine, poisoned the nuns and his own daughter.

     FERNEZE. Away with him! his sight is death to me.

     BARABAS. For what, you men of Malta? hear me speak.
     She is a courtezan, and he a thief,
     And he my bondman:  let me have law;
     For none of this can prejudice my life.

     FERNEZE. Once more, away with him!--You shall have law.

     BARABAS. Devils, do your worst!--I['ll] live in spite of you.--
          [Aside.]
     As these have spoke, so be it to their souls!--
     I hope the poison'd flowers will work anon.
          [Aside.]
          [Exeunt OFFICERS with BARABAS and ITHAMORE; BELLAMIRA,
          and PILIA-BORZA.]

          Enter KATHARINE.

     KATHARINE. Was my Mathias murder'd by the Jew?
     Ferneze, 'twas thy son that murder'd him.

     FERNEZE. Be patient, gentle madam:  it was he;
     He forg'd the daring challenge made them fight.

     KATHARINE. Where is the Jew? where is that murderer?

     FERNEZE. In prison, till the law has pass'd on him.

          Re-enter FIRST OFFICER.

     FIRST OFFICER. My lord, the courtezan and her man are dead;
     So is the Turk and Barabas the Jew.

     FERNEZE. Dead!

     FIRST OFFICER. Dead, my lord, and here they bring his body.

     MARTIN DEL BOSCO. This sudden death of his is very strange.

          Re-enter OFFICERS, carrying BARABAS as dead.

     FERNEZE. Wonder not at it, sir; the heavens are just;
     Their deaths were like their lives; then think not of 'em.--
     Since they are dead, let them be buried:
     For the Jew's body, throw that o'er the walls,
     To be a prey for vultures and wild beasts.--
     So, now away and fortify the town.

          Exeunt all, leaving BARABAS on the floor. [181]

     BARABAS. [rising] What, all alone! well fare, sleepy drink!
     I'll be reveng'd on this accursed town;
     For by my means Calymath shall enter in:
     I'll help to slay their children and their wives,
     To fire the churches, pull their houses down,
     Take my goods too, and seize upon my lands.
     I hope to see the governor a slave,
     And, rowing in a galley, whipt to death.

          Enter CALYMATH, BASSOES, [182] and TURKS.

     CALYMATH. Whom have we there? a spy?

     BARABAS. Yes, my good lord, one that can spy a place
     Where you may enter, and surprize the town:
     My name is Barabas; I am a Jew.

     CALYMATH. Art thou that Jew whose goods we heard were sold
     For tribute-money?

     BARABAS. The very same, my lord:
     And since that time they have hir'd a slave, my man,
     To accuse me of a thousand villanies:
     I was imprisoned, but scap [']d their hands.

     CALYMATH. Didst break prison?

     BARABAS. No, no:
     I drank of poppy and cold mandrake juice;
     And being asleep, belike they thought me dead,
     And threw me o'er the walls:  so, or how else,
     The Jew is here, and rests at your command.

     CALYMATH. 'Twas bravely done:  but tell me, Barabas,
     Canst thou, as thou report'st, make Malta ours?

     BARABAS. Fear not, my lord; for here, against the trench, [183]
     The rock is hollow, and of purpose digg'd,
     To make a passage for the running streams
     And common channels [184] of the city.
     Now, whilst you give assault unto the walls,
     I'll lead five hundred soldiers through the vault,
     And rise with them i' the middle of the town,
     Open the gates for you to enter in;
     And by this means the city is your own.

     CALYMATH. If this be true, I'll make thee governor.

     BARABAS. And, if it be not true, then let me die.

     CALYMATH. Thou'st doom'd thyself.--Assault it presently.
          [Exeunt.]

          Alarums within.  Enter CALYMATH, [185] BASSOES, TURKS, and
          BARABAS; with FERNEZE and KNIGHTS prisoners.

     CALYMATH. Now vail [186] your pride, you captive Christians,
     And kneel for mercy to your conquering foe:
     Now where's the hope you had of haughty Spain?
     Ferneze, speak; had it not been much better
     To kept [187] thy promise than be thus surpris'd?

     FERNEZE. What should I say? we are captives, and must yield.

     CALYMATH. Ay, villains, you must yield, and under Turkish yokes
     Shall groaning bear the burden of our ire:--
     And, Barabas, as erst we promis'd thee,
     For thy desert we make thee governor;
     Use them at thy discretion.

     BARABAS. Thanks, my lord.

     FERNEZE. O fatal day, to fall into the hands
     Of such a traitor and unhallow'd Jew!
     What greater misery could heaven inflict?

     CALYMATH. 'Tis our command:--and, Barabas, we give,
     To guard thy person, these our Janizaries:
     Entreat [188] them well, as we have used thee.--
     And now, brave bassoes, [189] come; we'll walk about
     The ruin'd town, and see the wreck we made.--
     Farewell, brave Jew, farewell, great Barabas!

     BARABAS. May all good fortune follow Calymath!
          [Exeunt CALYMATH and BASSOES.]
     And now, as entrance to our safety,
     To prison with the governor and these
     Captains, his consorts and confederates.

     FERNEZE. O villain! heaven will be reveng'd on thee.

     BARABAS. Away! no more; let him not trouble me.
          [Exeunt TURKS with FERNEZE and KNIGHTS.]
     Thus hast thou gotten, [190] by thy policy,
     No simple place, no small authority:
     I now am governor of Malta; true,--
     But Malta hates me, and, in hating me,
     My life's in danger; and what boots it thee,
     Poor Barabas, to be the governor,
     Whenas [191] thy life shall be at their command?
     No, Barabas, this must be look'd into;
     And, since by wrong thou gott'st authority,
     Maintain it bravely by firm policy;
     At least, unprofitably lose it not;
     For he that liveth in authority,
     And neither gets him friends nor fills his bags,
     Lives like the ass that Aesop speaketh of,
     That labours with a load of bread and wine,
     And leaves it off to snap on thistle-tops:
     But Barabas will be more circumspect.
     Begin betimes; Occasion's bald behind:
     Slip not thine opportunity, for fear too late
     Thou seek'st for much, but canst not compass it.--
     Within here! [192]

          Enter FERNEZE, with a GUARD.

     FERNEZE. My lord?

     BARABAS. Ay, LORD; thus slaves will learn.
     Now, governor,--stand by there, wait within,--
          [Exeunt GUARD.]
     This is the reason that I sent for thee:
     Thou seest thy life and Malta's happiness
     Are at my arbitrement; and Barabas
     At his discretion may dispose of both:
     Now tell me, governor, and plainly too,
     What think'st thou shall become of it and thee?

     FERNEZE. This, Barabas; since things are in thy power,
     I see no reason but of Malta's wreck,
     Nor hope of thee but extreme cruelty:
     Nor fear I death, nor will I flatter thee.

     BARABAS. Governor, good words; be not so furious
     'Tis not thy life which can avail me aught;
     Yet you do live, and live for me you shall:
     And as for Malta's ruin, think you not
     'Twere slender policy for Barabas
     To dispossess himself of such a place?
     For sith, [193] as once you said, within this isle,
     In Malta here, that I have got my goods,
     And in this city still have had success,
     And now at length am grown your governor,
     Yourselves shall see it shall not be forgot;
     For, as a friend not known but in distress,
     I'll rear up Malta, now remediless.

     FERNEZE. Will Barabas recover Malta's loss?
     Will Barabas be good to Christians?

     BARABAS. What wilt thou give me, governor, to procure
     A dissolution of the slavish bands
     Wherein the Turk hath yok'd your land and you?
     What will you give me if I render you
     The life of Calymath, surprise his men,
     And in an out-house of the city shut
     His soldiers, till I have consum'd 'em all with fire?
     What will you give him that procureth this?

     FERNEZE. Do but bring this to pass which thou pretendest,
     Deal truly with us as thou intimatest,
     And I will send amongst the citizens,
     And by my letters privately procure
     Great sums of money for thy recompense:
     Nay, more, do this, and live thou governor still.

     BARABAS. Nay, do thou this, Ferneze, and be free:
     Governor, I enlarge thee; live with me;
     Go walk about the city, see thy friends:
     Tush, send not letters to 'em; go thyself,
     And let me see what money thou canst make:
     Here is my hand that I'll set Malta free;
     And thus we cast [194] it:  to a solemn feast
     I will invite young Selim Calymath,
     Where be thou present, only to perform
     One stratagem that I'll impart to thee,
     Wherein no danger shall betide thy life,
     And I will warrant Malta free for ever.

     FERNEZE. Here is my hand; believe me, Barabas,
     I will be there, and do as thou desirest.
     When is the time?

     BARABAS. Governor, presently;
     For Calymath, when he hath view'd the town,
     Will take his leave, and sail toward Ottoman.

     FERNEZE. Then will I, Barabas, about this coin,
     And bring it with me to thee in the evening.

     BARABAS. Do so; but fail not:  now farewell, Ferneze:--
          [Exit FERNEZE.]
     And thus far roundly goes the business:
     Thus, loving neither, will I live with both,
     Making a profit of my policy;
     And he from whom my most advantage comes,
     Shall be my friend.
     This is the life we Jews are us'd to lead;
     And reason too, for Christians do the like.
     Well, now about effecting this device;
     First, to surprise great Selim's soldiers,
     And then to make provision for the feast,
     That at one instant all things may be done:
     My policy detests prevention.
     To what event my secret purpose drives,
     I know; and they shall witness with their lives.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter CALYMATH and BASSOES. [195]

     CALYMATH. Thus have we view'd the city, seen the sack,
     And caus'd the ruins to be new-repair'd,
     Which with our bombards' shot and basilisk[s] [196]
     We rent in sunder at our entry:
     And, now I see the situation,
     And how secure this conquer'd island stands,
     Environ'd with the Mediterranean sea,
     Strong-countermin'd with other petty isles,
     And, toward Calabria, [197] back'd by Sicily
     (Where Syracusian Dionysius reign'd),
     Two lofty turrets that command the town,
     I wonder how it could be conquer'd thus.

          Enter a MESSENGER.

     MESSENGER. From Barabas, Malta's governor, I bring
     A message unto mighty Calymath:
     Hearing his sovereign was bound for sea,
     To sail to Turkey, to great Ottoman,
     He humbly would entreat your majesty
     To come and see his homely citadel,
     And banquet with him ere thou leav'st the isle.

     CALYMATH. To banquet with him in his citadel!
     I fear me, messenger, to feast my train
     Within a town of war so lately pillag'd,
     Will be too costly and too troublesome:
     Yet would I gladly visit Barabas,
     For well has Barabas deserv'd of us.

     MESSENGER. Selim, for that, thus saith the governor,--
     That he hath in [his] store a pearl so big,
     So precious, and withal so orient,
     As, be it valu'd but indifferently,
     The price thereof will serve to entertain
     Selim and all his soldiers for a month;
     Therefore he humbly would entreat your highness
     Not to depart till he has feasted you.

     CALYMATH. I cannot feast my men in Malta-walls,
     Except he place his tables in the streets.

     MESSENGER. Know, Selim, that there is a monastery
     Which standeth as an out-house to the town;
     There will he banquet them; but thee at home,
     With all thy bassoes and brave followers.

     CALYMATH. Well, tell the governor we grant his suit;
     We'll in this summer-evening feast with him.

     MESSENGER. I shall, my lord.
          [Exit.]

     CALYMATH. And now, bold bassoes, let us to our tents,
     And meditate how we may grace us best,
     To solemnize our governor's great feast.
          [Exeunt.]

          Enter FERNEZE, [198] KNIGHTS, and MARTIN DEL BOSCO.

     FERNEZE. In this, my countrymen, be rul'd by me:
     Have special care that no man sally forth
     Till you shall hear a culverin discharg'd
     By him that bears the linstock, [199] kindled thus;
     Then issue out and come to rescue me,
     For happily I shall be in distress,
     Or you released of this servitude.

     FIRST KNIGHT. Rather than thus to live as Turkish thralls,
     What will we not adventure?

     FERNEZE. On, then; be gone.

     KNIGHTS. Farewell, grave governor.
          [Exeunt, on one side, KNIGHTS and MARTIN DEL BOSCO;
          on the other, FERNEZE.]

          Enter, above, [200] BARABAS, with a hammer, very busy;
          and CARPENTERS.

     BARABAS. How stand the cords? how hang these hinges? fast?
     Are all the cranes and pulleys sure?

     FIRST CARPENTER. [201] All fast.

     BARABAS. Leave nothing loose, all levell'd to my mind.
     Why, now I see that you have art, indeed:
     There, carpenters, divide that gold amongst you;
          [Giving money.]
     Go, swill in bowls of sack and muscadine;
     Down to the cellar, taste of all my wines.

     FIRST CARPENTER. We shall, my lord, and thank you.
          [Exeunt CARPENTERS.]

     BARABAS. And, if you like them, drink your fill and die;
     For, so I live, perish may all the world!
     Now, Selim Calymath, return me word
     That thou wilt come, and I am satisfied.

          Enter MESSENGER.

     Now, sirrah; what, will he come?

     MESSENGER. He will; and has commanded all his men
     To come ashore, and march through Malta-streets,
     That thou mayst feast them in thy citadel.

     BARABAS. Then now are all things as my wish would have 'em;
     There wanteth nothing but the governor's pelf;
     And see, he brings it.

          Enter FERNEZE.

                             Now, governor, the sum?

     FERNEZE. With free consent, a hundred thousand pounds.

     BARABAS. Pounds say'st thou, governor? well, since it is no more,
     I'll satisfy myself with that; nay, keep it still,
     For, if I keep not promise, trust not me:
     And, governor, now partake my policy.
     First, for his army, they are sent before,
     Enter'd the monastery, and underneath
     In several places are field-pieces pitch'd,
     Bombards, whole barrels full of gunpowder,
     That on the sudden shall dissever it,
     And batter all the stones about their ears,
     Whence none can possibly escape alive:
     Now, as for Calymath and his consorts,
     Here have I made a dainty gallery,
     The floor whereof, this cable being cut,
     Doth fall asunder, so that it doth sink
     Into a deep pit past recovery.
     Here, hold that knife; and, when thou seest he comes,
          [Throws down a knife.]
     And with his bassoes shall be blithely set,
     A warning-piece shall be shot off [202] from the tower,
     To give thee knowledge when to cut the cord,
     And fire the house.  Say, will not this be brave?

     FERNEZE. O, excellent! here, hold thee, Barabas;
     I trust thy word; take what I promis'd thee.

     BARABAS. No, governor; I'll satisfy thee first;
     Thou shalt not live in doubt of any thing.
     Stand close, for here they come.
          [FERNEZE retires.]
                                       Why, is not this
     A kingly kind of trade, to purchase towns
     By treachery, and sell 'em by deceit?
     Now tell me, worldlings, underneath the sun [203]
     If greater falsehood ever has been done?

          Enter CALYMATH and BASSOES.

     CALYMATH. Come, my companion-bassoes:  see, I pray,
     How busy Barabas is there above
     To entertain us in his gallery:
     Let us salute him.--Save thee, Barabas!

     BARABAS. Welcome, great Calymath!

     FERNEZE. How the slave jeers at him!
          [Aside.]

     BARABAS. Will't please thee, mighty Selim Calymath,
     To ascend our homely stairs?

     CALYMATH. Ay, Barabas.--
     Come, bassoes, ascend. [204]

     FERNEZE. [coming forward] Stay, Calymath;
     For I will shew thee greater courtesy
     Than Barabas would have afforded thee.

     KNIGHT. [within] Sound a charge there!
          [A charge sounded within:  FERNEZE cuts the cord; the floor
          of the gallery gives way, and BARABAS falls into a caldron
          placed in a pit.

          Enter KNIGHTS and MARTIN DEL BOSCO. [205]

     CALYMATH. How now! what means this?

     BARABAS. Help, help me, Christians, help!

     FERNEZE. See, Calymath! this was devis'd for thee.

     CALYMATH. Treason, treason! bassoes, fly!

     FERNEZE. No, Selim, do not fly:
     See his end first, and fly then if thou canst.

     BARABAS. O, help me, Selim! help me, Christians!
     Governor, why stand you all so pitiless?

     FERNEZE. Should I in pity of thy plaints or thee,
     Accursed Barabas, base Jew, relent?
     No, thus I'll see thy treachery repaid,
     But wish thou hadst behav'd thee otherwise.

     BARABAS. You will not help me, then?

     FERNEZE. No, villain, no.

     BARABAS. And, villains, know you cannot help me now.--
     Then, Barabas, breathe forth thy latest fate,
     And in the fury of thy torments strive
     To end thy life with resolution.--
     Know, governor, 'twas I that slew thy son,--
     I fram'd the challenge that did make them meet:
     Know, Calymath, I aim'd thy overthrow:
     And, had I but escap'd this stratagem,
     I would have brought confusion on you all,
     Damn'd Christian [206] dogs, and Turkish infidels!
     But now begins the extremity of heat
     To pinch me with intolerable pangs:
     Die, life! fly, soul! tongue, curse thy fill, and die!
          [Dies.]

     CALYMATH. Tell me, you Christians, what doth this portend?

     FERNEZE. This train [207] he laid to have entrapp'd thy life;
     Now, Selim, note the unhallow'd deeds of Jews;
     Thus he determin'd to have handled thee,
     But I have rather chose to save thy life.

     CALYMATH. Was this the banquet he prepar'd for us?
     Let's hence, lest further mischief be pretended. [208]

     FERNEZE. Nay, Selim, stay; for, since we have thee here,
     We will not let thee part so suddenly:
     Besides, if we should let thee go, all's one,
     For with thy galleys couldst thou not get hence,
     Without fresh men to rig and furnish them.

     CALYMATH. Tush, governor, take thou no care for that;
     My men are all aboard,
     And do attend my coming there by this.

     FERNEZE. Why, heard'st thou not the trumpet sound a charge?

     CALYMATH. Yes, what of that?

     FERNEZE. Why, then the house was fir'd,
     Blown up, and all thy soldiers massacred.

     CALYMATH. O, monstrous treason!

     FERNEZE. A Jew's courtesy;
     For he that did by treason work our fall,
     By treason hath deliver'd thee to us:
     Know, therefore, till thy father hath made good
     The ruins done to Malta and to us,
     Thou canst not part; for Malta shall be freed,
     Or Selim ne'er return to Ottoman.

     CALYMATH. Nay, rather, Christians, let me go to Turkey,
     In person there to mediate [209] your peace:
     To keep me here will naught advantage you.

     FERNEZE. Content thee, Calymath, here thou must stay,
     And live in Malta prisoner; for come all [210] the world
     To rescue thee, so will we guard us now,
     As sooner shall they drink the ocean dry,
     Than conquer Malta, or endanger us.
     So, march away; and let due praise be given
     Neither to Fate nor Fortune, but to Heaven.
          [Exeunt.]

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: Heywood dedicates the First Part of THE IRON AGE (printed
1632) "To my Worthy and much Respected Friend, Mr. Thomas
Hammon, of Grayes Inne, Esquire."]

[Footnote 2: Tho. Heywood:  The well-known dramatist.]

[Footnote 3: censures: i.e. judgments.]

[Footnote 4: bin: i.e. been.]

[Footnote 5: best of poets: "Marlo."  Marg. note in old ed.]

[Footnote 6: best of actors: "Allin."  Marg. note in old. ed.--Any account
of the celebrated actor, Edward Alleyn, the founder of Dulwich
College, would be superfluous here.]

[Footnote 7: In HERO AND LEANDER, &c.: The meaning is--The one (Marlowe)
gained a lasting memory by being the author of HERO AND LEANDER;
while the other (Alleyn) wan the attribute of peerless by
playing the parts of Tamburlaine, the Jew of Malta, &c.--The
passage happens to be mispointed in the old ed. thus,

    "In Hero and Leander, one did gaine
     A lasting memorie:  in Tamberlaine,
     This Jew, with others many:  th' other wan," &c.

and hence Mr. Collier, in his HIST. OF ENG. DRAM. POET. iii.
114, understood the words,

    "in Tamburlaine,
     This Jew, with others many,"

as applying to Marlowe:  he afterwards, however, in his MEMOIRS
OF ALLEYN, p. 9, suspected that the punctuation of the old ed.
might be wrong,--which it doubtless is.]

[Footnote 8: him: "Perkins."  Marg. note in old ed.--"This was Richard
Perkins, one of the performers belonging to the Cock-pit theatre
in Drury-Lane.  His name is printed among those who acted in
HANNIBAL AND SCIPIO by Nabbes, THE WEDDING by Shirley, and
THE FAIR MAID OF THE WEST by Heywood.  After the play-houses
were shut up on account of the confusion arising from the civil
wars, Perkins and Sumner, who belonged to the same house, lived
together at Clerkenwell, where they died and were buried.  They
both died some years before the Restoration.  See THE DIALOGUE
ON PLAYS AND PLAYERS [Dodsley's OLD PLAYS, 1. clii., last ed.]."
REED (apud Dodsley's O. P.).  Perkins acted a prominent part in
Webster's WHITE DEVIL, when it was first brought on the stage,
--perhaps Brachiano (for Burbadge, who was celebrated in
Brachiano, does not appear to have played it originally):  in a
notice to the reader at the end of that tragedy Webster says;
"In particular I must remember the well-approved industry of my
friend Master Perkins, and confess the worth of his action did
crown both the beginning and end."  About 1622-3 Perkins belonged
to the Red Bull theatre:  about 1637 he joined the company at
Salisbury Court:  see Webster's WORKS, note, p. 51, ed. Dyce,
1857.]

[Footnote 9: prize was play'd: This expression (so frequent in our early
writers) is properly applied to fencing:  see Steevens's note
on Shakespeare's MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR, act. i. sc. 1.]

[Footnote 10: no wagers laid: "Wagers as to the comparative merits of
rival actors in particular parts were not unfrequent of old,"
&c. Collier (apud Dodsley's O. P.).  See my ed. of Peele's
WORKS, i. x. ed. 1829; and Collier's MEMOIRS OF ALLEYN, p. 11.]

[Footnote 11: the Guise: "i.e. the Duke of Guise, who had been the
principal contriver and actor in the horrid massacre of
St. Bartholomew's day, 1572.  He met with his deserved fate,
being assassinated, by order of the French king, in 1588."
REED (apud Dodsley's O. P.).  And see our author's MASSACRE
AT PARIS.]

[Footnote 12: empery: Old ed. "Empire."]

[Footnote 13: the Draco's: "i.e. the severe lawgiver of Athens; 'whose
statutes,' said Demades, 'were not written with ink, but blood.'"
STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).--Old ed. "the Drancus."]

[Footnote 14: had: Qy. "had BUT"?]

[Footnote 15: a lecture here: Qy. "a lecture TO YOU here"?]

[Footnote 16: Act I.: The Scenes of this play are not marked in the
old ed.; nor in the present edition,--because occasionally
(where the audience were to SUPPOSE a change of place, it
was impossible to mark them.]

[Footnote 17: Samnites: Old ed. "Samintes."]

[Footnote 18: silverlings: When Steevens (apud Dodsley's O. P.) called
this "a diminutive, to express the Jew's contempt of a metal
inferior in value to gold," he did not know that the word occurs
in Scripture:  "a thousand vines at a thousand SILVERLINGS."
ISAIAH, vii. 23.--Old ed. "siluerbings."]

[Footnote 19: Tell: i.e. count.]

[Footnote 20: seld-seen: i.e. seldom-seen.]

[Footnote 21: Into what corner peers my halcyon's bill?: "It was anciently
believed that this bird (the king-fisher), if hung up, would vary
with the wind, and by that means shew from what quarter it blew."
STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.),--who refers to the note on the
following passage of Shakespeare's KING LEAR, act ii. sc. 2;

    "Renege, affirm, and turn their HALCYON BEAKS
     With every gale and vary of their masters," &c.]

[Footnote 22: custom them: "i.e. enter the goods they contain at the
Custom-house."  STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]

[Footnote 23: But: Old ed. "By."]

[Footnote 24: fraught: i.e. freight.]

[Footnote 25: scambled: i.e. scrambled. (Coles gives in his DICT.
"To SCAMBLE, certatim arripere"; and afterwards renders
"To scramble" by the very same Latin words.)]

[Footnote 26: Enter three JEWS: A change of scene is supposed here,
--to a street or to the Exchange.]

[Footnote 27: Fond: i.e. Foolish.]

[Footnote 28: Aside: Mr. Collier (apud Dodsley's O. P.), mistaking the
purport of this stage-direction (which, of course, applies only
to the words "UNTO MYSELF"), proposed an alteration of the text.]

[Footnote 29: BARABAS. Farewell, Zaareth, &c.: Old ed. "Iew. DOE SO;
Farewell Zaareth," &c.  But "Doe so" is evidently a stage-
direction which has crept into the text, and which was intended
to signify that the Jews DO "take their leaves" of Barabas:
--here the old ed. has no "EXEUNT."]

[Footnote 30: Turk has: So the Editor of 1826.--Old ed. "Turkes haue":
but see what follows.]

[Footnote 31: Ego mihimet sum semper proximus: The words of Terence are
"Proximus sum egomet mihi." ANDRIA, iv. 1. 12.]

[Footnote 32: Exit: The scene is now supposed to be changed to the
interior of the Council-house.]

[Footnote 33: bassoes: i.e. bashaws.]

[Footnote 34: governor: Old ed. "Gouernours" here, and several times
after in this scene.]

[Footnote 35: CALYMATH. Stand all aside, &c.: "The Governor and the
Maltese knights here consult apart, while Calymath gives these
directions." COLLIER (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]

[Footnote 36: happily: i.e. haply.]

[Footnote 37: Officer: Old ed. "Reader."]

[Footnote 38: denies: i.e. refuses.]

[Footnote 39: convertite: "i.e. convert, as in Shakespeare's KING JOHN,
act v. sc. 1." STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]

[Footnote 40: Then we'll take, &c.: In the old ed. this line forms
a portion of the preceding speech.]

[Footnote 41: ecstasy: Equivalent here to--violent emotion.  "The word
was anciently used to signify some degree of alienation of mind."
COLLIER (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]

[Footnote 42: Exeunt three Jews: On their departure, the scene is supposed
to be changed to a street near the house of Barabas.]

[Footnote 43: reduce: If the right reading, is equivalent to--repair.
But qy. "redress"?]

[Footnote 44: fond: "i.e. foolish." REED (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]

[Footnote 45: portagues: Portuguese gold coins, so called.]

[Footnote 46: sect: "i.e. sex.  SECT and SEX were, in our ancient dramatic
writers, used synonymously."  REED (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]

[Footnote 47: Enter FRIAR JACOMO, &c.: Old ed. "Enter three Fryars and
two Nuns:"  but assuredly only TWO Friars figure in this play.]

[Footnote 48: Abb.: In the old ed. the prefix to this speech is "1 Nun,"
and to the next speech but one "Nun."  That both speeches belong
to the Abbess is quite evident.]

[Footnote 49: Sometimes: Equivalent here (as frequently in our early
writers) to--Sometime.]

[Footnote 50: forgive me--: Old ed. "GIUE me--"]

[Footnote 51: thus: After this word the old ed. has "",--to signify,
perhaps, the motion which Barabas was to make here with his hand.]

[Footnote 52: forget not: Qy. "forget IT not"]

[Footnote 53: Enter BARABAS, with a light: The scene is now before the
house of Barabas, which has been turned into a nunnery.]

[Footnote 54: Thus, like the sad-presaging raven, that tolls
     The sick man's passport in her hollow beak
Mr. Collier (HIST. OF ENG. DRAM. POET. iii. 136) remarks that
these lines are cited (with some variation, and from memory,
as the present play was not printed till 1633) in an epigram on
T. Deloney, in Guilpin's SKIALETHEIA OR THE SHADOWE OF TRUTH,
1598,--

    "LIKE TO THE FATALL OMINOUS RAVEN, WHICH TOLLS
     THE SICK MAN'S DIRGE WITHIN HIS HOLLOW BEAKE,
     So every paper-clothed post in Poules
     To thee, Deloney, mourningly doth speake," &c.]

[Footnote 55: of: i.e. on.]

[Footnote 56: wake: Old ed. "walke."]

[Footnote 57: Bueno para todos mi ganado no era: Old ed. "Birn para todos,
my ganada no er."]

[Footnote 58: But stay:  what star shines yonder in the east, &c.
Shakespeare, it would seem, recollected this passage, when
he wrote,--

    "But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
     It is the east, and Juliet is the sun!"
          ROMEO AND JULIET, act ii. sc. 2.]

[Footnote 59: Hermoso placer de los dineros: Old ed. "Hormoso Piarer,
de les Denirch."]

[Footnote 60: Enter Ferneze, &c.: The scene is the interior of the
Council-house.]

[Footnote 61: entreat: i.e. treat.]

[Footnote 62: vail'd not: "i.e. did not strike or lower our flags."
STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]

[Footnote 63: Turkish: Old ed. "Spanish."]

[Footnote 64: luff'd and tack'd: Old ed. "LEFT, and TOOKE."]

[Footnote 65: stated: i.e. estated, established, stationed.]

[Footnote 66: Enter OFFICERS, &c.: The scene being the market-place.]

[Footnote 67: Poor villains, such as were: Old ed. "SUCH AS poore
villaines were", &c.]

[Footnote 68: into: i.e. unto:  see note , p. 15.

     [note |, p. 15, The First Part of Tamburlaine the Great:
    "| into: Used here (as the word was formerly often used)
     for UNTO."]

[Footnote 69: city: The preceding editors have not questioned this word,
which I believe to be a misprint.]

[Footnote 70: foil'd]=filed, i.e. defiled.]

[Footnote 71: I'll have a saying to that nunnery: Compare Barnaby Barnes's
DIVILS CHARTER, 1607;

    "Before I do this seruice, lie there, peece;
     For I must HAUE A SAYING to those bottels.  HE DRINKETH.
     True stingo; stingo, by mine honour.*   *   *
     *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *
     I must HAUE A SAYING to you, sir, I must, though you be
     prouided for his Holines owne mouth; I will be bould to be
     the Popes taster by his leaue." Sig. K 3.]

[Footnote 72: plates: "i.e. pieces of silver money." STEEVENS (apud
Dodsley's O. P.).--Old ed. "plats."]

[Footnote 73: Slave: To the speeches of this Slave the old ed. prefixes
"Itha." and "Ith.", confounding him with Ithamore.]

[Footnote 74: Lady Vanity: So Jonson in his FOX, act ii. sc. 3.,

    "Get you a cittern, LADY VANITY,
     And be a dealer with the virtuous man," &c.;

and in his DEVIL IS AN ASS, act i. sc. 1.,--

    "SATAN. What Vice?
     PUG. Why, any:  Fraud,
     Or Covetousness, or LADY VANITY,
     Or old Iniquity."]

[Footnote 75: Katharine: Old ed. "MATER."--The name of Mathias's mother
was, as we afterwards learn, Katharine.]

[Footnote 76: stay: i.e. forbear, break off our conversation.]

[Footnote 77: was: Qy. "was BUT"?]

[Footnote 78: O, brave, master: The modern editors strike out the comma
after "BRAVE", understanding that word as an epithet to "MASTER":
but compare what Ithamore says to Barabas in act iv.:  "That's
BRAVE, MASTER," p. 165, first col.]

[Footnote 79: your nose: An allusion to the large artificial nose, with
which Barabas was represented on the stage.  See the passage
cited from W. Rowley's SEARCH FOR MONEY, 1609, in the ACCOUNT
OF MARLOWE AND HIS WRITINGS.]

[Footnote 80: Ure: i.e. use, practice.]

[Footnote 81: a-good: "i.e. in good earnest.  Tout de bon."  REED (apud
Dodsley's O. P.).]

[Footnote 82: Enter LODOWICK: A change of scene supposed here,--to the
outside of Barabas's house.]

[Footnote 83: vow love to him: Old ed. "vow TO LOUE him":  but compare,
in Barabas's next speech but one, "And she VOWS LOVE TO HIM," &c.]

[Footnote 84: made sure: i.e. affianced.]

[Footnote 85: Ludovico: Old ed. "Lodowicke."--In act iii. we have,

    "I fear she knows--'tis so--of my device
     In Don Mathias' and LODOVICO'S deaths."  p. 162, sec. col.]

[Footnote 86: happily: i.e. haply.]

[Footnote 87: unsoil'd: "Perhaps we ought to read 'unfoil'd',
consistently with what Barabas said of her before under the
figure of a jewel--

     'The diamond that I talk of NE'ER WAS FOIL'D'."
COLLIER (apud Dodsley's O. P.).  But see that passage, p. 155,
sec. col., and note ||. [i.e. note 70.]]

[Footnote 88: cross: i.e. piece of money (many coins being marked with a
cross on one side).]

[Footnote 89: thou: Old ed. "thee."]

[Footnote 90: resolv'd: "i.e. satisfied." GILCHRIST (apud Dodsley's
O. P.).]

[Footnote 91: Enter BELLAMIRA: She appears, we may suppose, in a veranda
or open portico of her house (that the scene is not the interior
of the house, is proved by what follows).]

[Footnote 92:     Enter MATHIAS.
MATHIAS. This is the place, &c.: The scene is some pert of the
town, as Barabas appears "ABOVE,"--in the balcony of a house.
(He stood, of course, on what was termed the upper-stage.)

Old ed. thus;

    "Enter MATHIAS.

Math. This is the place, now Abigail shall see
Whether Mathias holds her deare or no.

     Enter Lodow. reading.

Math. What, dares the villain write in such base terms?

Lod. I did it, and reuenge it if thou dar'st."]

[Footnote 93: Lodovico: Old ed. "Lodowicke."--See note *, p. 158. (i.e.
note 85.)]

[Footnote 94: tall: i.e. bold, brave.]

[Footnote 95: What sight is this!: i.e. What A sight is this! Our early
writers often omit the article in such exclamations:  compare
Shakespeare's JULIUS CAESAR, act i. sc. 3, where Casca says,

    "Cassius, WHAT NIGHT IS THIS!"

(after which words the modern editors improperly retain the
interrogation-point of the first folio).]

[Footnote 96: Lodovico: Old ed. "Lodowicke."]

[Footnote 97: These arms of mine shall be thy sepulchre: So in
Shakespeare's THIRD PART OF KING HENRY VI., act ii. sc. 5,
the Father says to the dead Son whom he has killed in battle,

    "THESE ARMS OF MINE shall be thy winding-sheet;
     My heart, sweet boy, SHALL BE THY SEPULCHRE,"--

lines, let me add, not to be found in THE TRUE TRAGEDIE OF
RICHARD DUKE OF YORKE, on which Shakespeare formed that play.]

[Footnote 98: Katharine: Old ed. "Katherina."]

[Footnote 99: Enter ITHAMORE: The scene a room in the house of Barabas.]

[Footnote 100: held in hand: i.e. kept in expectation, having their hopes
flattered.]

[Footnote 101: bottle-nosed: See note , p. 157. [i.e. note 79.]]

[Footnote 102: Jaques: Old ed. "Iaynes."]

[Footnote 103: sire: Old ed. "sinne" (which, modernised to "sin", the
editors retain, among many other equally obvious errors of the
old copy).]

[Footnote 104: As: Old ed. "And."]

[Footnote 105: Enter BARABAS: The scene is still within the house of
Barabas; but some time is supposed to have elapsed since the
preceding conference between Abigail and Friar Jacomo.]

[Footnote 106: pretendeth: Equivalent to PORTENDETH; as in our author's
FIRST BOOK OF LUCAN, "And which (ay me) ever PRETENDETH ill," &c.]

[Footnote 107: self: Old ed. "life" (the compositor's eye having caught
"life" in the preceding line).]

[Footnote 108: 'less: Old ed. "least."]

[Footnote 109: Well said: See note *, p. 69.]

     (note *, p. 69, The Second Part of Tamburlaine the Great:

    "* Well said: Equivalent to--Well done! as appears from
     innumerable passages of our early writers:  see, for
     instances, my ed. of Beaumont and Fletcher's WORKS, vol. i.
     328, vol. ii. 445, vol. viii. 254.")]

[Footnote 110: the proverb says, &c.: A proverb as old as Chaucer's time:
see the SQUIERES TALE, v. 10916, ed. Tyrwhitt.]

[Footnote 111: batten: i.e. fatten.]

[Footnote 112: pot: Old ed. "plot."]

[Footnote 113: thou shalt have broth by the eye: "Perhaps he means--thou
shalt SEE how the broth that is designed for thee is made, that
no mischievous ingredients enter its composition.  The passage
is, however, obscure." STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).--"BY THE
EYE" seems to be equivalent to--in abundance.  Compare THE CREED
of Piers Ploughman:

    "Grey grete-heded quenes
     With gold BY THE EIGHEN."

v. 167, ed. Wright (who has no note on the expression):  and
Beaumont and Fletcher's KNIGHT OF THE BURNING PESTLE, act ii.
sc. 2; "here's money and gold BY TH' EYE, my boy."  In Fletcher's
BEGGARS' BUSH, act iii. sc. 1, we find, "Come, English beer,
hostess, English beer BY THE BELLY!"]

[Footnote 114: In few: i.e. in a few words, in short.]

[Footnote 115: hebon: i.e. ebony, which was formerly supposed to be a
deadly poison.]

[Footnote 116: Enter FERNEZE, &c.: The scene is the interior of the
Council-house.]

[Footnote 117: basso: Old ed. "Bashaws" (the printer having added an S
by mistake), and in the preceding stage-direction, and in the
fifth speech of this scene, "Bashaw":  but in an earlier scene
(see p. 148, first col.) we have "bassoes" (and see our author's
TAMBURLAINE, PASSIM).

     (From p. 148, this play:

    "Enter FERNEZE governor of Malta, KNIGHTS, and OFFICERS;
     met by CALYMATH, and BASSOES of the TURK.")]

[Footnote 118: the resistless banks: i.e. the banks not able to resist.]

[Footnote 119: basilisks: See note ||, p. 25.

     (note ||, p. 25, The First Part of Tamburlaine the Great:)

    "basilisks: Pieces of ordnance so called.  They were of
     immense size; see Douce's ILLUST. OF SHAKESPEARE, i. 425."]

[Footnote 120: Enter FRIAR JACOMO, &c.: Scene, the interior of the
Nunnery.]

[Footnote 121: convers'd with me: She alludes to her conversation with
Jacomo, p. 162, sec. col.

     (p. 162, second column, this play:

    "ABIGAIL. Welcome, grave friar.--Ithamore, be gone.

          Exit ITHAMORE.

     Know, holy sir, I am bold to solicit thee.
     FRIAR JACOMO. Wherein?")]

[Footnote 122: envied: i.e. hated.]

[Footnote 123: practice: i.e. artful contrivance, stratagem.]

[Footnote 124: crucified a child: A crime with which the Jews were often
charged.  "Tovey, in his ANGLIA JUDAICA, has given the several
instances which are upon record of these charges against the
Jews; which he observes they were never accused of, but at such
times as the king was manifestly in great want of money."  REED
(apud Dodsley's O. P.).]

[Footnote 125: Enter BARABAS, &c.: Scene a street.]

[Footnote 126: to: Which the Editor of 1826 deliberately altered to
"like," means--compared to, in comparison of.]

[Footnote 127: Cazzo: Old ed. "catho."--See Florio's WORLDE OF WORDES
(Ital. and Engl. Dict.) ed. 1598, in v.--"A petty oath, a cant
exclamation, generally expressive, among the Italian populace,
who have it constantly in their mouth, of defiance or contempt."
Gifford's note on Jonson's WORKS, ii. 48.]

[Footnote 128: nose: See note , p. 157. [i.e. note 79.]]

[Footnote 129: inmate: Old ed. "inmates."]

[Footnote 130: the burden of my sins
Lie heavy, &c.: One of the modern editors altered "LIE" to
"Lies":  but examples of similar phraseology,--of a nominative
singular followed by a plural verb when a plural genitive
intervenes,--are common in our early writers; see notes on
Beaumont and Fletcher's WORKS, vol. v. 7, 94, vol. ix. 185,
ed. Dyce.]

[Footnote 131: sollars: "i.e. lofts, garrets." STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's
O. P.).]

[Footnote 132: untold: i.e. uncounted.--Old ed. "vnsold."]

[Footnote 133: BARABAS. This is mere frailty:  brethren, be content.--
Friar Barnardine, go you with Ithamore:
You know my mind; let me alone with him.]

FRIAR JACOMO. Why does he go to thy house? let him be gone

Old ed. thus;

"BAR. This is meere frailty, brethren, be content.
Fryar Barnardine goe you with Ithimore.
ITH. You know my mind, let me alone with him;
Why does he goe to thy house, let him begone."]

[Footnote 134: the Turk: "Meaning Ithamore." COLLIER (apud Dodsley's
O. P.).  Compare the last line but one of Barabas's next speech.]

[Footnote 135: covent: i.e. convent.]

[Footnote 136: Therefore 'tis not requisite he should live: Lest the
reader should suspect that the author wrote,

    "Therefore 'tis requisite he should not live,"
   I may observe that we have had before (p. 152, first col.)
   a similar form of expression,--
    "It is not necessary I be seen."]

[Footnote 137: fair: See note |||, p. 15. ('15' sic.)

     (note |||, p. 13, The First Part of Tamburlaine the Great:)

    "In fair, &c.: Here "FAIR" is to be considered as a
     dissyllable:  compare, in the Fourth act of our author's
     JEW OF MALTA,
       "I'll feast you, lodge you, give you FAIR words,
        And, after that," &c."]

[Footnote 138: shall be done: Here a change of scene is supposed, to the
interior of Barabas's house.]

[Footnote 139: Friar, awake: Here, most probably, Barabas drew a curtain,
and discovered the sleeping Friar.]

[Footnote 140: have: Old ed. "saue."]

[Footnote 141: What time o' night is't now, sweet Ithamore?

      ITHAMORE. Towards one: Might be adduced, among other
passages, to shew that the modern editors are right when they
print in Shakespeare's KING JOHN. act iii. sc. 3,

                          "If the midnight bell
     Did, with his iron tongue and brazen mouth,
     Sound ONE into the drowsy ear of NIGHT," &c.]

[Footnote 142: Enter FRIAR JACOMO: The scene is now before Barabas's
house,--the audience having had to SUPPOSE that the body of
Barnardine, which Ithamore had set upright, was standing
outside the door.]

[Footnote 143: proceed: Seems to be used here as equivalent to--succeed.]

[Footnote 144: on's: i.e. of his.]

[Footnote 145: Enter BELLAMIRA, &c.: The scene, as in p. 160, a veranda
or open portico of Bellamira's house.

     (p. 160, this play:)

    "     Enter BELLAMIRA. (91)
     BELLAMIRA. Since this town was besieg'd," etc.]

[Footnote 146: tall: Which our early dramatists generally use in the
sense of--bold, brave (see note , p. 161), [i.e. note 94: is
here perhaps equivalent to--handsome. ("Tall or SEMELY." PROMPT.
PARV. ed. 1499.)]

[Footnote 147: neck-verse: i.e. the verse (generally the beginning of the
51st Psalm, MISERERE MEI, &c.) read by a criminal to entitle him
to benefit of clergy.]

[Footnote 148: of: i.e. on.]

[Footnote 149: exercise: i.e. sermon, preaching.]

[Footnote 150: with a muschatoes: i.e. with a pair of mustachios.  The
modern editors print "with MUSTACHIOS," and "with a MUSTACHIOS":
but compare,--

    "My Tuskes more stiffe than are a Cats MUSCHATOES."
          S. Rowley's NOBLE SPANISH SOLDIER, 1634, Sig. C.

    "His crow-black MUCHATOES."
          THE BLACK BOOK,--Middleton's WORKS, v. 516, ed. Dyce.]

[Footnote 151: Turk of tenpence: An expression not unfrequently used by
our early writers.  So Taylor in some verses on Coriat;

    "That if he had A TURKE OF TENPENCE bin," &c.
          WORKES, p. 82, ed. 1630.

And see note on Middleton's WORKS, iii. 489, ed. Dyce.]

[Footnote 152: you know: Qy. "you know, SIR,"?]

[Footnote 153: I'll make him, &c.: Old ed. thus:

    "I'le make him send me half he has, & glad he scapes so too.
     PEN AND INKE:
     I'll write vnto him, we'le haue mony strait."

There can be no doubt that the words "Pen and inke" were a
direction to the property-man to have those articles on the
stage.]

[Footnote 154: cunning: i.e. skilfully prepared.--Old ed. "running."
(The MAIDS are supposed to hear their mistress' orders WITHIN.)]

[Footnote 155: Shalt live with me, and be my love: A line, slightly
varied, of Marlowe's well-known song.  In the preceding line,
the absurdity of "by Dis ABOVE" is, of course, intentional.]

[Footnote 156: beard: Old ed. "sterd."]

[Footnote 157: give me a ream of paper:  we'll have a kingdom of gold
for't: A quibble.  REALM was frequently written ream;  and
frequently (as the following passages shew), even when the
former spelling was given, the L was not sounded;

    "Vpon the siluer bosome of the STREAME
     First gan faire Themis shake her amber locks,
     Whom all the Nimphs that waight on Neptunes REALME
     Attended from the hollowe of the rocks."
          Lodge's SCILLAES METAMORPHOSIS, &c. 1589, Sig. A 2.

    "How he may surest stablish his new conquerd REALME,
     How of his glorie fardest to deriue the STREAME."
          A HERINGS TAYLE, &c. 1598, Sig. D 3.

    "Learchus slew his brother for the crowne;
     So did Cambyses fearing much the DREAME;
     Antiochus, of infamous renowne,
     His brother slew, to rule alone the REALME."
          MIROUR FOR MAGISTRATES, p. 78, ed. 1610.]

[Footnote 158: runs division: "A musical term [of very common
occurrence]."  STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]

[Footnote 159: Enter BARABAS: The scene certainly seems to be now the
interior of Barabas's house, notwithstanding what he presently
says to Pilia-Borza (p. 171, sec. col.), "Pray, when, sir, shall
I see you at my house?"]

[Footnote 160: tatter'd: Old ed. "totter'd":  but in a passage of our
author's EDWARD THE SECOND the two earliest 4tos have "TATTER'D
robes":--and yet Reed in a note on that passage (apud Dodsley's
OLD PLAYS, where the reading of the third 4to, "tottered robes",
is followed) boldly declares that "in every writer of this
period the word was spelt TOTTERED"! The truth is, it was spelt
sometimes one way, sometimes the other.]

[Footnote 161: catzery: i.e. cheating, roguery.  It is formed from CATSO
(CAZZO, see note *, p. 166  i.e. note 127), which our early
writers used, not only as an exclamation, but as an opprobrious
term.]

[Footnote 162: cross-biting: i.e. swindling (a cant term).--Something has
dropt out here.]

[Footnote 163: tale: i.e. reckoning.]

[Footnote 164: what he writes for you: i.e. the hundred crowns to be
given to the bearer:  see p. 170, sec. col.

     p. 170, second column, this play:

    "ITHAMORE. [writing: SIRRAH JEW, AS YOU LOVE YOUR LIFE,
     SEND ME FIVE HUNDRED CROWNS, AND GIVE THE BEARER A HUNDRED.
     --Tell him I must have't."]

[Footnote 165: I should part: Qy. "I E'ER should part"?]

[Footnote 166: rid: i.e. despatch, destroy.]

[Footnote 167: Enter BELLAMIRA, &c.: They are supposed to be sitting in
a veranda or open portico of Bellamira's house:  see note *,
p. 168. [i.e. note 145.]

[Footnote 168: Of: i.e. on.]

[Footnote 169: BELLAMIRA.: Old ed. "Pil."]

[Footnote 170: Rivo Castiliano: The origin of this Bacchanalian
exclamation has not been discovered.  RIVO generally is used
alone; but, among passages parallel to that of our text, is
the following one (which has been often cited),--

    "And RYUO will he cry and CASTILE too."
          LOOKE ABOUT YOU, 1600, Sig. L. 4.

A writer in THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, vol. xliii. 53, thinks that
it "is a misprint for RICO-CASTELLANO, meaning a Spaniard
belonging to the class of RICOS HOMBRES, and the phrase
therefore is--

    'Hey, NOBLE CASTILIAN, a man's a man!'
'I can pledge like a man and drink like a man, MY WORTHY TROJAN;'
as some of our farce-writers would say." But the frequent
occurrence of RIVO in various authors proves that it is NOT
a misprint.]

[Footnote 171: he: Old ed. "you".]

[Footnote 172: and he and I, snicle hand too fast, strangled a friar]
There is surely some corruption here.  Steevens (apud Dodsley's
O. P.) proposes to read "hand TO FIST".  Gilchrist (ibid.)
observes, "a snicle is a north-country word for a noose, and
when a person is hanged, they say he is snicled."  See too,
in V. SNICKLE, Forby's VOC. OF EAST ANGLIA, and the CRAVEN
DIALECT.--The Rev. J. Mitford proposes the following (very
violent) alteration of this passage;

    "Itha. I carried the broth that poisoned the nuns; and he
   and I--
     Pilia. Two hands snickle-fast--
     Itha. Strangled a friar."]

[Footnote 173: incony: i.e. fine, pretty, delicate.--Old ed. "incoomy."]

[Footnote 174: they stink like a hollyhock: "This flower, however, has
no offensive smell.  STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).  Its
odour resembles that of the poppy.]

[Footnote 175: mushrooms: For this word (as, indeed, for most words) our
early writers had no fixed spelling.  Here the old ed. has
"Mushrumbs":  and in our author's EDWARD THE SECOND, the 4tos
have "mushrump."]

[Footnote 176: under the elder when he hanged himself: That Judas hanged
himself on an elder-tree, was a popular legend.  Nay, the very
tree was exhibited to the curious in Sir John Mandeville's days:
"And faste by, is zit the Tree of Eldre, that Judas henge him
self upon, for despeyt that he hadde, whan he solde and betrayed
oure Lorde."  VOIAGE AND TRAVAILE, &c. p. 112. ed. 1725.  But,
according to Pulci, Judas had recourse to a carob-tree:

    "Era di sopra a la fonte UN CARRUBBIO,
     L'ARBOR, SI DICE, OVE S'IMPICCO GIUDA," &c.
          MORGANTE MAG. C. xxv. st. 77.]

[Footnote 177: nasty: Old ed. "masty."]

[Footnote 178: me: Old ed. "we".]

[Footnote 179: Enter Ferneze, &c.: Scene, the interior of the Council-
house.]

[Footnote 180: him: Qy. "'em"?]

[Footnote 181: Exeunt all, leaving Barabas on the floor: Here the audience
were to suppose that Barabas had been thrown over the walls, and
that the stage now represented the outside of the city.]

[Footnote 182: Bassoes: Here old ed. "Bashawes." See note §, p. 164.
[Footnote i.e. note 117.]]

[Footnote 183: trench: A doubtful reading.--Old ed. "Truce."--"Query
'sluice'? 'TRUCE' seems unintelligible." COLLIER (apud Dodsley's
O. P.).--The Rev. J. Mitford proposes "turret" or "tower."]

[Footnote 184: channels: i.e. kennels.]

[Footnote 185: Enter CALYMATH, &c.: Scene, an open place in the city.]

[Footnote 186: vail: i.e. lower, stoop.]

[Footnote 187: To kept: i.e. To have kept.]

[Footnote 188: Entreat: i.e. Treat.]

[Footnote 189: Bassoes: Here old ed. "Bashawes."  See note §, p. 164.
[Footnote i.e. note 117.]]

[Footnote 190: Thus hast thou gotten, &c.: A change of scene is supposed
here--to the Citadel, the residence of Barabas as governor.]

[Footnote 191: Whenas: i.e. When.

[Footnote 192: Within here: The usual exclamation is "Within THERE!" but
compare THE HOGGE HATH LOST HIS PEARLE (by R. Tailor), 1614;
"What, ho! within HERE!"  Sig. E 2.]

[Footnote 193: sith: i.e. since.]

[Footnote 194: cast: i.e. plot, contrive.]

[Footnote 195: Bassoes: Here and afterwards old ed. "Bashawes."  See note
§, p. 164. [i.e. note 117.]--Scene, outside the walls of the
city.]

[Footnote 196: basilisk[s: See note , p. 25.

     [note ||, p. 25, The First Part of Tamburlaine the Great:
    "|| basilisks: Pieces of ordnance so called.  They were of
     immense size; see Douce's ILLUST. OF SHAKESPEARE, i. 425."]

[Footnote 197: And, toward Calabria, &c.: So the Editor of 1826.--Old ed.
thus:

    "And toward Calabria back'd by Sicily,
     Two lofty Turrets that command the Towne.
     WHEN Siracusian Dionisius reign'd;
     I wonder how it could be conquer'd thus?"]

[Footnote 198: Enter FERNEZE, &c.: Scene, a street.]

[Footnote 199: linstock: "i.e. the long match with which cannon are
fired."  STEEVENS (apud Dodsley's O. P.).]

[Footnote 200: Enter, above, &c.: Scene, a hall in the Citadel, with a
gallery.]

[Footnote 201: FIRST CARPENTER.: Old ed. here "Serv."; but it gives
"CARP." as the prefix to the second speech after this.]

[Footnote 202: off: An interpolation perhaps.]

[Footnote 203: sun: Old ed. "summe."]

[Footnote 204: ascend: Old ed. "attend."]

[Footnote 205: A charge sounded within:  FERNEZE cuts the cord; the floor
of the gallery gives way, and BARABAS falls into a caldron
placed in a pit.

     Enter KNIGHTS and MARTIN DEL BOSCO

Old ed. has merely "A charge, the cable cut, A Caldron
discouered."]

[Footnote 206: Christian: Old ed. "Christians."]

[Footnote 207: train: i.e. stratagem.]

[Footnote 208: pretended: i.e. intended.]

[Footnote 209: mediate: Old ed. "meditate."]

[Footnote 210: all: Old ed. "call."]

SQUARE BRACKETS:
The square brackets, i.e. [ ] are copied from the printed book,
without change, except that the stage directions usually do not
have closing brackets.  These have been added.

FOOTNOTES:
For this E-Text version of the book, the footnotes have been
consolidated at the end of the play.

Numbering of the footnotes has been changed, and each footnote
is given a unique identity in the form  [XXX].

CHANGES TO THE TEXT:
Character names were expanded.  For Example, BARABAS was BARA.,
FERNEZE was FERN., etc.


Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Leonard Johnson and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/Canadian Libraries)

                         The English Dramatists

                           CHRISTOPHER MARLOWE

                            VOLUME THE THIRD

[Greek:
                                    Hadymelei
  thama men phormingi pamphÙnoisi t' en entesin aulÙn.]

                           PINDAR, _Olymp._ vii.

                               THE WORKS

                                   OF

                           CHRISTOPHER MARLOWE

                               EDITED BY
                            A. H. BULLEN, B.A.

                            IN THREE VOLUMES
                            VOLUME THE THIRD

                                 LONDON
                              JOHN C. NIMMO
                   14. KING WILLIAM STREET, STRAND, W.C.
                               MDCCCLXXXV

_One hundred and twenty copies of this Edition on Laid paper, medium
8vo, have been printed, and are numbered consecutively as issued._

_No._ ____

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

                                                                    PAGE

HERO AND LEANDER                                                       1

OVID'S ELEGIES                                                       103

EPIGRAMS BY J. D.                                                    211

THE FIRST BOOK OF LUCAN                                              249

THE PASSIONATE SHEPHERD TO HIS LOVE                                  281

FRAGMENT                                                             293

DIALOGUE IN VERSE                                                    295

APPENDICES                                                           301

INDEX TO THE NOTES                                                   355

                            HERO AND LEANDER.

Two editions of _Hero and Leander_ appeared in 1598. The first edition,
containing only Marlowe's portion of the poem, is entitled _Hero and
Leander. By Christopher Marloe. London, Printed by Adam Islip, for
Edward Blunt._ 1598. 4to. The title-page of the second edition, which
contains the complete poem, is _Hero and Leander: Begun by Christopher
Marloe; and finished by George Chapman. Ut Nectar, Ingenium. At London,
Printed by Felix Kingston, for Paule Linley, and are to be solde in
Paules Churche-yard, at the signe of the Blacke-beare._ 1598. 4to.

Two copies of the second edition were discovered a few years ago at
Lamport Hall (the seat of Sir Charles Isham, Bart.) by Mr. Charles
Edmonds. The existence of this edition was previously unknown. Later
editions are:--

_Hero and Leander: Begunne by Christopher Marloe: Whereunto is added the
first booke of Lucan translated line for line by the same Author. Ut
Nectar, Ingenium. At London Printed for John Flasket, and are to be
solde in Paules Church-yard, at the signe of the Blacke-beare. 1600.
4to._

_Hero and Leander: Begunne by Christopher Marloe, and finished by George
Chapman. Ut Nectar, Ingenium. At London. Imprinted for John Flasket, and
are to be sold in Paules Church-yard, at the signe of the blacke Beare.
1606. 4to._

_Hero and Leander: Begunne by Christopher Marloe, and finished by George
Chapman. Ut Nectar, Ingenium. At London. Imprinted for Ed. Blunt and W.
Barret, and are to be sold in Pauls Church-yard, at the signe of the
blacke Beare. 1609. 4to._

_Hero and Leander: Begunne by Christopher Marloe, and finished by George
Chapman. Ut Nectar, Ingenium. London. Printed by W. Stansby for Ed.
Blunt and W. Barret, and are to be sold in Pauls Church-yard, at the
signe of the Blacke Beare. 1613. 4to._

_Hero and Leander: Begun by Christoper Marloe, and finished by George
Chapman. Ut Nectar, Ingenium. London, Printed by A. M. for Richard
Hawkins: and are to bee sold at his Shop in Chancerie-Lane, neere
Serieants Inne. 1629. 4to._

_Hero and Leander: Begun by Christopher Marloe, and finished by George
Chapman. Ut Nectar, Ingenium. London: Printed by N. Okes for William
Leake, and are to be sold at his shop in Chancery-lane neere the Roules.
1637. 4to._

I have not had an opportunity of seeing the 4tos. of 1598 or the 4to. of
1600. For the text of the Isham copy, I am indebted to the _Works of
George Chapman: Poems and Minor Translations_, 1875. I have examined the
texts of eds. 1606, 1613, 1629, 1637; and my friend Mr. C. H. Firth has
examined for me the Bodleian copy of ed. 1600, in the margin of which
Malone has noted the readings of the first edition.

TO THE

RIGHT-WORSHIPFUL SIR THOMAS WALSINGHAM,

KNIGHT.

Sir, we think not ourselves discharged of the duty we owe to our friend
when we have brought the breathless body to the earth; for albeit the
eye there taketh his ever-farewell of that beloved object, yet the
impression of the man that hath been dear unto us, living an after-life
in our memory, there putteth us in mind of farther obsequies due unto
the deceased; and namely of the performance of whatsoever we may judge
shall make to his living credit and to the effecting of his
determinations prevented by the stroke of death. By these meditations
(as by an intellectual will) I suppose myself executor to the unhappily
deceased author of this poem; upon whom knowing that in his lifetime you
bestowed many kind favours, entertaining parts of reckoning and worth
which you found in him with good countenance and liberal affection, I
cannot but see so far into the will of him dead, that whatsoever issue
of his brain should chance to come abroad, that the first breath it
should take might be the gentle air of your liking; for, since his self
had been accustomed thereunto, it would prove more agreeable and
thriving to his right children than any other foster countenance
whatsoever. At this time seeing that this unfinished tragedy happens
under my hands to be imprinted; of a double duty, the one to yourself,
the other to the deceased, I present the same to your most favourable
allowance, offering my utmost self now and ever to be ready at your
worship's disposing:

                                                         EDWARD BLUNT.

HERO AND LEANDER.

THE FIRST SESTIAD.

_The Argument_[1] _of the First Sestiad._

        Hero's description and her love's;
        The fane of Venus, where he moves
        His worthy love-suit, and attains;
        Whose bliss the wrath of Fates restrains
        For Cupid's grace to Mercury:
        Which tale the author doth imply.

    On Hellespont, guilty of true love's blood,
    In view and opposite two cities stood,
    Sea-borderers,[2] disjoin'd by Neptune's might;
    The one Abydos, the other Sestos hight.
    At Sestos Hero dwelt; Hero the fair,
    Whom young Apollo courted for her hair,
    And offer'd as a dower his burning throne,
    Where she should sit, for men to gaze upon.
    The outside of her garments were of lawn,
    The lining purple silk, with gilt stars drawn;                    10
    Her wide sleeves green, and border'd with a grove,
    Where Venus in her naked glory strove
    To please the careless and disdainful eyes
    Of proud Adonis, that before her lies;
    Her kirtle blue, whereon was many a stain,
    Made with the blood of wretched lovers slain.
    Upon her head she ware[3] a myrtle wreath,
    From whence her veil reach'd to the ground beneath:
    Her veil was artificial flowers and leaves,
    Whose workmanship both man and beast deceives:                    20
    Many would praise the sweet smell as she past,
    When 'twas the odour which her breath forth cast;
    And there for honey bees have sought in vain,
    And, beat from thence, have lighted there again.
    About her neck hung chains of pebble-stone,
    Which, lighten'd by her neck, like diamonds shone.
    She ware no gloves; for neither sun nor wind
    Would burn or parch her hands, but, to her mind.
    Or warm or cool them, for they took delight
    To play upon those hands, they were so white.                     30
    Buskins of shells, all silver'd, usËd she,
    And branch'd with blushing coral to the knee;
    Where sparrows perch'd of hollow pearl and gold,
    Such as the world would wonder to behold:
    Those with sweet water oft her handmaid fills,
    Which as she went, would cherup through the bills.
    Some say, for her the fairest Cupid pin'd,
    And, looking in her face, was strooken blind.
    But this is true; so like was one the other,
    As he imagin'd Hero was his mother;                               40
    And oftentimes into her bosom flew,
    About her naked neck his bare arms threw,
    And laid his childish head upon her breast,
    And, with still panting rock,[4] there took his rest.
    So lovely-fair was Hero, Venus' nun,
    As Nature wept, thinking she was undone,
    Because she took more from her than she left,
    And of such wondrous beauty her bereft:
    Therefore, in sign her treasure suffer'd wrack,
    Since Hero's time hath half the world been black.                 50
      Amorous Leander, beautiful and young
    (Whose tragedy divine MusÊus sung),
    Dwelt at Abydos; since him dwelt there none
    For whom succeeding times make[5] greater moan.
    His dangling tresses, that were never shorn,
    Had they been cut, and unto Colchos borne,
    Would have allur'd the venturous youth of Greece
    To hazard more than for the golden fleece.
    Fair Cynthia wished his arms might be her Sphere;
    Grief makes her pale, because she moves not there.                60
    His body was as straight as Circe's wand;
    Jove might have sipt out nectar from his hand.
    Even as delicious meat is to the tast,
    So was his neck in touching, and surpast
    The white of Pelops' shoulder: I could tell ye,
    How smooth his breast was, and how white his belly;
    And whose immortal fingers did imprint
    That heavenly path with many a curious dint
    That runs along his back; but my rude pen
    Can hardly blazon forth the loves of men,                         70
    Much less of powerful gods: let it suffice
    That my slack Muse sings of Leander's eyes;
    Those orient cheeks and lips, exceeding his
    That leapt into the water for a kiss
    Of his own shadow, and, despising many,
    Died ere he could enjoy the love of any.
    Had wild Hippolytus Leander seen,
    Enamour'd of his beauty had he been:
    His presence made the rudest peasant melt,
    That in the vast uplandish country dwelt;                         80
    The barbarous Thracian soldier, mov'd with nought,
    Was mov'd with him, and for his favour sought.
    Some swore he was a maid in man's attire,
    For in his looks were all that men desire,--
    A pleasant-smiling cheek, a speaking eye,
    A brow for love to banquet royally;
    And such as knew he was a man, would say,
    "Leander, thou art made for amorous play:
    Why art thou not in love, and loved of all?
    Though thou be fair, yet be not thine own thrall."                90
      The men of wealthy Sestos every year,
    For his sake whom their goddess held so dear,
    Rose-cheek'd[6] Adonis, kept a solemn feast:
    Thither resorted many a wandering guest
    To meet their loves: such as had none at all
    Came lovers home from this great festival;
    For every street, like to a firmament,
    Glister'd with breathing stars, who, where they went,
    Frighted the melancholy earth, which deem'd
    Eternal heaven to burn, for so it seem'd,                        100
    As if another PhaÎton had got
    The guidance of the sun's rich chariot.
    But, far above the loveliest, Hero shin'd,
    And stole away th' enchanted gazer's mind;
    For like sea-nymphs' inveigling harmony,
    So was her beauty to the standers by;
    Nor that night-wandering, pale, and watery[7] star
    (When yawning dragons draw her thirling[8] car
    From Latmus' mount up to the gloomy sky,
    Where, crown'd with blazing light and majesty,                   110
    She proudly sits) more over-rules the flood
    Than she the hearts of those that near her stood.
    Even as when gaudy nymphs pursue the chase,
    Wretched Ixion's shaggy-footed race,
    Incens'd with savage heat, gallop amain
    From steep pine-bearing mountains to the plain,
    So ran the people forth to gaze upon her,
    And all that view'd her were enamour'd on her:
    And as in fury of a dreadful fight,
    Their fellows being slain or put to flight,                      120
    Poor soldiers stand with fear of death dead-strooken,
    So at her presence all surpris'd and tooken,
    Await the sentence of her scornful eyes;
    He whom she favours lives; the other dies:
    There might you see one sigh; another rage;
    And some, their violent passions to assuage,
    Compile sharp satires; but, alas, too late!
    For faithful love will never turn to hate;
    And many, seeing great princes were denied,
    Pin'd as they went, and thinking on her died.                    130
    On this feast-day--O cursËd day and hour!--
    Went Hero thorough Sestos, from her tower
    To Venus' temple, where unhappily,
    As after chanc'd, they did each other spy.
    So fair a church as this had Venus none:
    The walls were of discolour'd[9] jasper-stone,
    Wherein was Proteus carved; and over-head
    A lively vine of green sea-agate spread,
    Where by one hand light-headed Bacchus hung,
    And with the other wine from grapes out-wrung.                   140
    Of crystal shining fair the pavement was;
    The town of Sestos call'd it Venus' glass:
    There might you see the gods, in sundry shapes,
    Committing heady riots, incests, rapes;
    For know, that underneath this radiant flour[10]
    Was Dan‰e's statue in a brazen tower:
    Jove slily stealing from his sister's bed,
    To dally with Idalian Ganymed,
    And for his love Europa bellowing loud,
    And tumbling with the Rainbow in a cloud;                        150
    Blood-quaffing Mars heaving the iron net
    Which limping Vulcan and his Cyclops set;
    Love kindling fire, to burn such towns as Troy;
    Silvanus weeping for the lovely boy
    That now is turned into a cypress-tree,
    Under whose shade the wood-gods love to be.
    And in the midst a silver altar stood:
    There Hero, sacrificing turtles' blood,
    Vailed[11] to the ground, veiling her eyelids close;
    And modestly they opened as she rose:                            160
    Thence flew Love's arrow with the golden head;
    And thus Leander was enamourËd.
    Stone-still he stood, and evermore he gaz'd,
    Till with the fire, that from his countenance blaz'd,
    Relenting Hero's gentle heart was strook:
    Such force and virtue hath an amorous look.
      It lies not in our power to love or hate,
    For will in us is over-rul'd by fate.
    When two are stript long ere the course begin,
    We wish that one should lose, the other win;                     170
    And one especially do we affect
    Of two gold ingots, like in each respect:
    The reason no man knows, let it suffice,
    What we behold is censur'd by our eyes.
    Where both deliberate, the love is slight:
    Who ever lov'd, that lov'd not at first sight?[12]
      He kneel'd; but unto her devoutly prayed:
    Chaste Hero to herself thus softly said,
    "Were I the saint he worships, I would hear him;"
    And, as she spake those words, came somewhat near him.           180
    He started up; she blushed as one asham'd;
    Wherewith Leander much more was inflam'd.
    He touch'd her hand; in touching it she trembled:
    Love deeply grounded hardly is dissembled.
    These lovers parled by the touch of hands:
    True love is mute, and oft amazËd stands.
    Thus while dumb signs their yielding hearts entangled,
    The air with sparks of living fire was spangled;
    And night,[13] deep-drenched in misty Acheron,
    Heav'd up her head, and half the world upon                      190
    Breath'd darkness forth (dark night is Cupid's day):
    And now begins Leander to display
    Love's holy fire, with words, with sighs, and tears;
    Which, like sweet music, enter'd Hero's ears;
    And yet at every word she turn'd aside
    And always cut him off, as he replied.
    At last, like to a bold sharp sophister,
    With cheerful hope thus he accosted her.
    "Fair creature,[14] let me speak without offence:
    I would my rude words had the influence                          200
    To lead thy thoughts as thy fair looks do mine!
    Then shouldst thou be his prisoner, who is thine.
    Be not unkind and fair; mis-shapen stuff
    Are of behaviour boisterous and rough.
    O, shun me not, but hear me ere you go!
    God knows, I cannot force love as you do:
    My words shall be as spotless as my youth,
    Full of simplicity and naked truth.
    This sacrifice, whose sweet perfume descending
    From Venus' altar, to your footsteps bending,                    210
    Doth testify that you exceed her far,
    To whom you offer, and whose nun you are.
    Why should you worship her? her you surpass
    As much as sparkling diamonds flaring glass.
    A diamond set in lead his worth retains;
    A heavenly nymph, belov'd of human swains,
    Receives no blemish, but ofttimes more grace;
    Which makes me hope, although I am but base,
    Base in respect of thee divine and pure,
    Dutiful service may thy love procure;                            220
    And I in duty will excel all other,
    As thou in beauty dost exceed Love's mother.
    Nor heaven nor thou were made to gaze upon:
    As heaven preserves all things, so save thou one.
    A stately-builded ship, well rigg'd and tall,
    The ocean maketh more majestical;
    Why vow'st thou, then, to live in Sestos here,
    Who on Love's seas more glorious wouldst appear?
    Like untun'd golden strings all women are,
    Which long time lie untouch'd, will harshly jar.                 230
    Vessels of brass, oft handled, brightly shine:
    What diffËrence betwixt[15] the richest mine
    And basest mould, but use? for both, not us'd,
    Are of like worth. Then treasure is abus'd,
    When misers keep it: being put to loan,
    In time it will return us two for one.
    Rich robes themselves and others do adorn;
    Neither themselves nor others, if not worn.
    Who builds a palace, and rams up the gate,
    Shall see it ruinous and desolate:                               240
    Ah, simple Hero, learn thyself to cherish!
    Lone women, like to empty houses, perish.
    Less sins the poor rich man, that starves himself
    In heaping up a mass of drossy pelf,
    Than such as you: his golden earth remains,
    Which, after his decease some other gains;
    But this fair gem, sweet in the loss alone,
    When you fleet hence, can be bequeath'd to none;
    Or, if it could, down from th' enamell'd sky
    All heaven would come to claim this legacy,                      250
    And with intestine broils the world destroy,
    And quite confound Nature's sweet harmony.
    Well therefore by the gods decreed it is,
    We human creatures should enjoy that bliss.
    One is no number;[16] maids are nothing, then,
    Without the sweet society of men.
    Wilt thou live single still? one shalt thou be,
    Though never-singling Hymen couple thee.
    Wild savages, that drink of running springs
    Think water far excels all earthly things;                       260
    But they, that daily taste neat[17] wine, despise it:
    Virginity, albeit some highly prize it,
    Compar'd with marriage, had you tried them both,
    Differs as much as wine and water doth.
    Base bullion for the stamp's sake we allow:
    Even so for men's impression do we you;
    By which alone, our reverend fathers say,
    Women receive perfection every way.
    This idol, which you term virginity,
    Is neither essence subject to the eye,                           270
    No, nor to any one exterior sense,
    Nor hath it any place of residence,
    Nor is't of earth or mould celestial,
    Or capable of any form at all.
    Of that which hath no being, do not boast;
    Things that are not at all, are never lost.
    Men foolishly do call it virtuous:
    What virtue is it, that is born with us?
    Much less can honour be ascrib'd thereto:
    Honour is purchas'd by the deeds we do;                          280
    Believe me, Hero, honour is not won,
    Until some honourable deed be done.
    Seek you, for chastity, immortal fame,
    And know that some have wrong'd Diana's name?
    Whose name is it, if she be false or not,
    So she be fair, but some vile tongues will blot?
    But you are fair, ay me! so wondrous fair,
    So young, so gentle, and so debonair.
    As Greece will think, if thus you live alone,
    Some one or other keeps you as his own.                          290
    Then, Hero, hate me not, nor from me fly,
    To follow swiftly-blasting infamy.
    Perhaps thy sacred priesthood makes thee loath:
    Tell me to whom mad'st thou that heedless oath?"
    "To Venus," answer'd she; and, as she spake,
    Forth from those two tralucent cisterns brake
    A stream of liquid pearl, which down her face
    Made milk-white paths, whereon the gods might trace
    To Jove's high court. He thus replied: "The rites
    In which Love's beauteous empress most delights,                 300
    Are banquets, Doric music, midnight revel,
    Plays, masks, and all that stern age counteth evil.
    Thee as a holy idiot doth she scorn;
    For thou, in vowing chastity, hast sworn
    To rob her name and honour, and thereby
    Committ'st a sin far worse than perjury,
    Even sacrilege against her deity,
    Through regular and formal purity.
    To expiate which sin, kiss and shake hands:
    Such sacrifice as this Venus demands."                           310
    Thereat she smil'd, and did deny him so,
    As put[18] thereby, yet might he hope for mo;
    Which makes him quickly reinforce his speech,
    And her in humble manner thus beseech:
    "Though neither gods nor men may thee deserve,
    Yet for her sake, whom you have vow'd to serve,
    Abandon fruitless cold virginity,
    The gentle queen of Love's sole enemy.
    Then shall you most resemble Venus' nun,
    When Venus' sweet rites are performed and done.                  320
    Flint-breasted Pallas joys in single life;
    But Pallas and your mistress are at strife.
    Love, Hero, then, and be not tyrannous;
    But heal the heart that thou hast wounded thus;
    Nor stain thy youthful years with avarice:
    Fair fools delight to be accounted nice.
    The richest[19] corn dies, if it be not reapt;
    Beauty alone is lost, too warily kept."
    These arguments he us'd, and many more;
    Wherewith she yielded, that was won before.                      330
    Hero's looks yielded, but her words made war:
    Women are won when they begin to jar.
    Thus, having swallow'd Cupid's golden hook,
    The more she striv'd, the deeper was she strook:
    Yet, evilly feigning anger, strove she still,
    And would be thought to grant against her will.
    So having paus'd a while, at last she said,
    "Who taught thee rhetoric to deceive a maid?
    Ay me! such words as these should I abhor,
    And yet I like them for the orator."                             340
    With that, Leander stooped to have embrac'd her,
    But from his spreading arms away she cast her,
    And thus bespake him: "Gentle youth, forbear
    To touch the sacred garments which I wear.
    Upon a rock, and underneath a hill,
    Far from the town (where all is whist[20] and still,
    Save that the sea, playing on yellow sand,
    Sends forth a rattling murmur to the land,
    Whose sound allures the golden Morpheus
    In silence of the night to visit us),                            350
    My turret stands; and there, God knows, I play
    With Venus' swans and sparrows all the day.
    A[21] dwarfish beldam bears me company,
    That hops about the chamber where I lie,
    And spends the night, that might be better spent,
    In vain discourse and apish merriment:--
    Come thither." As she spake this, her tongue tripp'd,
    For unawares "Come thither" from her slipp'd;
    And suddenly her former colour chang'd,
    And here and there her eyes through anger rang'd;                360
    And, like a planet moving several ways
    At one self instant, she, poor soul, assays,
    Loving, not to love at all, and every part
    Strove to resist the motions of her heart:
    And hands so pure, so innocent, nay, such
    As might have made Heaven stoop to have a touch,
    Did she uphold to Venus, and again
    Vow'd spotless chastity; but all in vain;
    Cupid beats down her prayers with his wings;
    Her vows above[22] the empty air he flings:                      370
    All deep enrag'd, his sinewy bow he bent,
    And shot a shaft that burning from him went;
    Wherewith she strooken, look'd so dolefully,
    As made Love sigh to see his tyranny;
    And, as she wept, her tears to pearl he turn'd,
    And wound them on his arm, and for her mourn'd.
    Then towards the palace of the Destinies,
    Laden with languishment and grief, he flies,
    And to those stern nymphs humbly made request,
    Both might enjoy each other, and be blest.                       380
    But with a ghastly dreadful countenance,
    Threatening a thousand deaths at every glance,
    They answer'd Love, nor would vouchsafe so much
    As one poor word, their hate to him was such:
    Hearken awhile, and I will tell you why.
    Heaven's wingËd herald, Jove-born Mercury,
    The self-same day that he asleep had laid
    Enchanted Argus, spied a country maid,
    Whose careless hair, instead of pearl t'adorn it,
    Glister'd with dew, as one that seemed to scorn it;              390
    Her breath as fragrant as the morning rose;
    Her mind pure, and her tongue untaught to glose:
    Yet proud she was (for lofty Pride that dwells
    In tower'd courts, is oft in shepherds' cells),
    And too-too well the fair vermillion knew
    And silver tincture of her cheeks that drew
    The love of every swain. On her this god
    Enamour'd was, and with his snaky rod
    Did charm her nimble feet, and made her stay,
    The while upon a hillock down he lay,                            400
    And sweetly on his pipe began to play,
    And with smooth speech her fancy to assay,
    Till in his twining arms he lock'd her fast,
    And then he woo'd with kisses; and at last,
    As shepherds do, her on the ground he laid,
    And, tumbling in the grass, he often stray'd
    Beyond the bounds of shame, in being bold
    To eye those parts which no eye should behold;
    And, like an insolent commanding lover,
    Boasting his parentage, would needs discover                     410
    The way to new Elysium. But she,
    Whose only dower was her chastity,
    Having striven in vain, was now about to cry,
    And crave the help of shepherds that were nigh.
    Herewith he stay'd his fury, and began
    To give her leave to rise: away she ran;
    After went Mercury, who used such cunning,
    As she, to hear his tale, let off her running
    (Maids are not won by brutish force and might,
    But speeches full of pleasures and delight);                     420
    And, knowing Hermes courted her, was glad
    That she such loveliness and beauty had
    As could provoke his liking; yet was mute,
    And neither would deny nor grant his suit.
    Still vow'd he love: she, wanting no excuse
    To feed him with delays, as women use,
    Or thirsting after immortality,
    (All women are ambitious naturally),
    Impos'd upon her lover such a task,
    As he ought not perform, nor yet she ask;                        430
    A draught of flowing nectar she requested,
    Wherewith the king of gods and men is feasted.
    He, ready to accomplish what she will'd,
    Stole some from Hebe (Hebe Jove's cup fill'd),
    And gave it to his simple rustic love:
    Which being known,--as what is hid from Jove?--
    He inly storm'd, and wax'd more furious
    Than for the fire filch'd by Prometheus;
    And thrusts him down from heaven. He, wandering here,
    In mournful terms, with sad and heavy cheer,                     440
    Complain'd to Cupid: Cupid, for his sake,
    To be reveng'd on Jove did undertake;
    And those on whom heaven, earth, and hell relies,
    I mean the adamantine Destinies,
    He wounds with love, and forc'd them equally
    To dote upon deceitful Mercury.
    They offer'd him the deadly fatal knife
    That shears the slender threads[23] of human life;
    At his fair-feather'd feet the engines laid,
    Which th' earth from ugly Chaos' den upweigh'd.                  450
    These he regarded not; but did entreat
    That Jove, usurper of his father's seat,
    Might presently be banish'd into hell,
    And agËd Saturn in Olympus dwell.
    They granted what he crav'd; and once again
    Saturn and Ops began their golden reign:
    Murder, rape, war, and[24] lust, and treachery,
    Were with Jove clos'd in Stygian empery.
    But long this blessËd time continu'd not:
    As soon as he his wishËd purpose got,                            460
    He, reckless of his promise, did despise
    The love of th' everlasting Destinies.
    They, seeing it, both Love and him abhorr'd,
    And Jupiter unto his place restor'd:
    And, but that Learning, in despite of Fate,
    Will mount aloft, and enter heaven-gate,
    And to the seat of Jove itself advance,
    Hermes had slept in hell with Ignorance.
    Yet, as a punishment, they added this,
    That he and Poverty should always kiss;                          470
    And to this day is every scholar poor:
    Gross gold from them runs headlong to the boor.
    Likewise the angry Sisters, thus deluded,
    To venge themselves on Hermes, have concluded
    That Midas' brood shall sit in Honour's chair,
    To which the Muses' sons are only heir;
    And fruitful wits, that inaspiring[25] are,
    Shall, discontent, run into regions far;
    And few great lords in virtuous deeds shall joy
    But be surpris'd with every garish toy,                          480
    And still enrich the lofty servile clown,
    Who with encroaching guile keeps learning down.
    Then muse not Cupid's suit no better sped,
    Seeing in their loves the Fates were injurËd.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The Arguments are by Chapman, who also divided Marlowe's portion of
the form into the First and Second Sestiad.

[2] Eds. 1600, 1606, 1613, "Sea-borders."--Ed. 1598, according to
Malone, has "sea-borderers;" and so eds. 1629, 1637.

[3] Some editions give "wore."

[4] Some eds. have "rockt," which may be the right reading.

[5] So ed. 1637.--The earlier editions that I have seen read "may."

[6] Cf. _Venus and Adonis_ (l. 3)--

    "_Rose-cheek'd Adonis_ hied him to the chace."

[7] So _Hamlet_ i. 1--

    "The _moist star_,
    Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands."

[8] "_Thrilling_--tremulously moving."--_Dyce._ Perhaps the meaning
rather is _penetrating_--drilling its way through--"the gloomy sky."

[9] Variegated (Lat. _discolor_).

[10] Dyce quotes a passage of Harington's _Orlando Furioso_ where
"flowre" (floor) rhymes with "towre."

[11] Ed. 1600 and later 4tos. "Tail'd." For the coupling of "Vailed"
with "veiling," cf. 2. _Tamb._ v. iii. 6. "pitch their pitchy tents."

[12] This line is quoted in _As you like it_, iii. 5:--

    "Dead shepherd, now I find thy saw of might,--
    _Who ever lov'd, that lov'd not at first sight._"

[13] "A periphrasis of Night." Marginal note in ed. 1598.

[14] Lines 199-204, 221-222, are quoted, not quite accurately, by
Matthew in _Every Man in his Humour_, iv. 1.

[15] Some eds. give "between."

[16] Cf. Shakespeare, _Sonnet_ cxxxvi.--

    "Among a number one is reckoned none."

[17] Some eds. read "sweet."

[18] Cf. Second Sestiad, l. 73--

    "She with a kind of granting _put_ him _by_ it."

[19] This line is quoted in _England's Parnassus_ with the reading
"ripest."

[20] Hushed.

[21] "To the 'beldam nurse' there occurs the following allusion in
Drayton's _Heroical Epistle from Queen Mary to Charles Brandon_:--

    'There is no beldam nurse to powt nor lower
    When wantoning we revell in my tower,
    Nor need I top my turret with a light,
    To guide thee to me as thou swim'st by night.'"--_Broughton._

[22] So the old eds.--Dyce reads "about."

[23] We are reminded of _Lycidas_:--

    "Comes the blind Fury with the abhorrËd shears
    And slits the thin-spun life."

[24] Omitted in ed. 1600 and later 4tos.

[25] This word cannot be right. Query, "high-aspiring?"

THE SECOND SESTIAD.

_The Argument of the Second Sestiad._

        Hero of love takes deeper sense,
        And doth her love more recompense:
        Their first night's meeting, where sweet kisses
        Are th' only crowns of both their blisses
        He swims t' Abydos, and returns:
        Cold Neptune with his beauty burns;
        Whose suit he shuns, and doth aspire
        Hero's fair tower and his desire.

    By this, sad Hero, with love unacquainted,
    Viewing Leander's face, fell down and fainted.
    He kiss'd her, and breath'd life[26] into her lips;
    Wherewith, as one displeas'd, away she trips;
    Yet, as she went, full often look'd behind,
    And many poor excuses did she find
    To linger by the way, and once she stay'd,
    And would have turn'd again, but was afraid,
    In offering parley, to be counted light:
    So on she goes, and, in her idle flight,                          10
    Her painted fan of curled plumes let fall,
    Thinking to train Leander therewithal.
    He, being a novice, knew not what she meant,
    But stay'd, and after her a letter sent;
    Which joyful Hero answer'd in such sort,
    As he had hope to scale the beauteous fort
    Wherein the liberal Graces locked their wealth;
    And therefore to her tower he got by stealth.
    Wide open stood the door; he need not climb;
    And she herself, before the pointed time,                         20
    Had spread the board, with roses strew'd the room,
    And oft looked out, and mused he did not come.
    At last he came: O, who can tell the greeting
    These greedy lovers had at their first meeting?
    He asked; she gave; and nothing was denied;
    Both to each other quickly were affied:
    Look how their hands, so were their hearts united,
    And what he did, she willingly requited.
    (Sweet are the kisses, the embracements sweet,
    When like desires and like[27] affections meet;                   30
    For from the earth to heaven is Cupid raised,
    Where fancy is in equal balance paised.[28])
    Yet she this rashness suddenly repented,
    And turn'd aside, and to herself lamented,
    As if her name and honour had been wronged
    By being possessed of him for whom she longed;
    I, and she wished, albeit not from her heart,
    That he would leave her turret and depart.
    The mirthful god of amorous pleasure smiled
    To see how he this captive nymph beguiled;                        40
    For hitherto he did but fan the fire,
    And kept it down, that it might mount the higher.
    Now wax'd she jealous lest his love abated,
    Fearing her own thoughts made her to be hated.
    Therefore unto him hastily she goes,
    And, like light Salmacis, her body throws
    Upon his bosom, where with yielding eyes
    She offers up herself a sacrifice
    To slake her anger, if he were displeased:
    O, what god would not therewith be appeased?                      50
    Like ∆sop's cock, this jewel he enjoyed,
    And as a brother with his sister toyed,
    Supposing nothing else was to be done,
    Now he her favour and goodwill had won.
    But know you not that creatures wanting sense,
    By nature have a mutual appetence,
    And, wanting organs to advance a step,
    Mov'd by love's force, unto each other lep?
    Much more in subjects having intellect
    Some hidden influence breeds like effect.                         60
    Albeit Leander, rude in love and raw,
    Long dallying with Hero, nothing saw
    That might delight him more, yet he suspected
    Some amorous rites or other were neglected.
    Therefore unto his body hers he clung:
    She, fearing on the rushes[29] to be flung,
    Strived with redoubled strength; the more she strived,
    The more a gentle pleasing heat revived,
    Which taught him all that elder lovers know;
    And now the same gan so to scorch and glow,                       70
    As in plain terms, yet cunningly, he'd crave[30] it:
    Love always makes those eloquent that have it.
    She, with a kind of granting, put him by it,
    And ever, as he thought himself most nigh it,
    Like to the tree of Tantalus, she fled,
    And, seeming lavish, saved her maidenhead.
    Ne'er king more sought to keep his diadem,
    Than Hero this inestimable gem:
    Above our life we love a steadfast friend;
    Yet when a token of great worth we send,                          80
    We often kiss it, often look thereon,
    And stay the messenger that would be gone;
    No marvel, then, though Hero would not yield
    So soon to part from that she dearly held:
    Jewels being lost are found again; this never;
    'Tis lost but once, and once lost, lost for ever.

    Now had the Morn espied her lover's steeds;
    Whereat she starts, puts on her purple weeds,
    And, red for anger that he stayed so long,
    All headlong throws herself the clouds among.                     90
    And now Leander, fearing to be missed,
    Embraced her suddenly, took leave, and kissed:
    Long was he taking leave, and loath to go,
    And kissed again, as lovers use to do.
    Sad Hero wrung him by the hand, and wept,
    Saying, "Let your vows and promises be kept:"
    Then standing at the door, she turned about,
    As loath to see Leander going out.
    And now the sun, that through th' horizon peeps,
    As pitying these lovers, downward creeps;                        100
    So that in silence of the cloudy night,
    Though it was morning, did he take his flight.
    But what the secret trusty night concealed,
    Leander's amorous habit soon revealed:
    With Cupid's myrtle was his bonnet crowned,
    About his arms the purple riband wound,
    Wherewith she wreath'd her largely-spreading hair;
    Nor could the youth abstain, but he must wear
    The sacred ring wherewith she was endowed,
    When first religious chastity she vowed;                         110
    Which made his love through Sestos to be known,
    And thence unto Abydos sooner blown
    Than he could sail; for incorporeal Fame,
    Whose weight consists in nothing but her name,
    Is swifter than the wind, whose tardy plumes
    Are reeking water and dull earthly fumes.

    Home when he came, he seemed not to be there,
    But, like exilËd air thrust from his sphere,
    Set in a foreign place; and straight from thence,
    Alcides-like, by mighty violence,                                120
    He would have chas'd away the swelling main,
    That him from her unjustly did detain.
    Like as the sun in a diameter
    Fires and inflames objects removËd far,
    And heateth kindly, shining laterally;
    So beauty sweetly quickens when 'tis nigh,
    But being separated and removed,
    Burns where it cherished, murders where it loved.
    Therefore even as an index to a book,
    So to his mind was young Leander's look.                         130
    O, none but gods have power[31] their love to hide!
    Affection by the countenance is descried;
    The light of hidden fire itself discovers,
    And love that is concealed betrays poor lovers.
    His secret flame apparently was seen:
    Leander's father knew where he had been,
    And for the same mildly rebuk'd his son,
    Thinking to quench the sparkles new-begun.
    But love, resisted once, grows passionate,
    And nothing more than counsel lovers hate;                       140
    For as a hot proud horse highly disdains
    To have his head controlled, but breaks the reins,
    Spits forth the ringled[32] bit, and with his hoves
    Checks the submissive ground; so he that loves,
    The more he is restrain'd, the worse he fares:
    What is it now but mad Leander dares?
    "O Hero, Hero!" thus he cried full oft;
    And then he got him to a rock aloft,
    Where having spied her tower, long star'd he on't,
    And pray'd the narrow toiling Hellespont                         150
    To part in twain, that he might come and go;
    But still the rising billows answer'd, "No."
    With that, he stripp'd him to the ivory skin,
    And, crying, "Love, I come," leap'd lively in:
    Whereat the sapphire-visaged god grew proud,
    And made his capering Triton sound aloud,
    Imagining that Ganymede, displeas'd,
    Had left the heavens; therefore on him he seiz'd.
    Leander strived; the waves about him wound,
    And pull'd him to the bottom, where the ground                   160
    Was strewed with pearl, and in low coral groves
    Sweet-singing mermaids sported with their loves
    On heaps of heavy gold, and took great pleasure
    To spurn in careless sort the shipwreck treasure;
    For here the stately azure palace stood,
    Where kingly Neptune and his train abode.
    The lusty god embrac'd him, called him "Love,"
    And swore he never should return to Jove:
    But when he knew it was not Ganymed,
    For under water he was almost dead,                              170
    He heav'd him up, and, looking on his face,
    Beat down the bold waves with his triple mace,
    Which mounted up, intending to have kiss'd him,
    And fell in drops like tears because they miss'd him.
    Leander, being up, began to swim,
    And, looking back, saw Neptune follow him:
    Whereat aghast, the poor soul gan to cry,
    "O, let me visit Hero ere I die!"
    The god put Helle's bracelet on his arm,
    And swore the sea should never do him harm.                      180
    He clapped his plump cheeks, with his tresses played,
    And, smiling wantonly, his love bewrayed;
    He watched his arms, and, as they open'd wide
    At every stroke, betwixt them would he slide,
    And steal a kiss, and then run out and dance,
    And, as he turn'd, cast many a lustful glance,
    And throw him gaudy toys to please his eye,
    And dive into the water, and there pry
    Upon his breast, his thighs, and every limb,
    And up again, and close beside him swim,                         190
    And talk of love. Leander made reply,
    "You are deceiv'd; I am no woman, I."
    Thereat smil'd Neptune, and then told a tale,
    How that a shepherd, sitting in a vale,
    Play'd with a boy so lovely-fair[33] and kind,
    As for his love both earth and heaven pin'd;
    That of the cooling river durst not drink,
    Lest water-nymphs should pull him from the brink;
    And when he sported in the fragrant lawns,
    Goat-footed Satyrs and up-staring[34] Fauns                      200
    Would steal him thence. Ere half this tale was done,
    "Ay me," Leander cried, "th' enamoured sun,
    That now should shine on Thetis' glassy bower,
    Descends upon my radiant Hero's tower:
    O, that these tardy arms of mine were wings!"
    And, as he spake, upon the waves he springs.
    Neptune was angry that he gave no ear,
    And in his heart revenging malice bare:
    He flung at him his mace; but, as it went,
    He call'd it in, for love made him repent:                       210
    The mace, returning back, his own hand hit,
    As meaning to be venged for darting it.
    When this fresh-bleeding wound Leander viewed,
    His colour went and came, as if he rued
    The grief which Neptune felt: in gentle breasts
    Relenting thoughts, remorse, and pity rests;
    And who have hard hearts and obdurate minds,
    But vicious, hare-brained, and illiterate hinds?
    The god, seeing him with pity to be moved,
    Thereon concluded that he was beloved.                           220
    (Love is too full of faith, too credulous,
    With folly and false hope deluding us);
    Wherefore, Leander's fancy to surprise,
    To the rich ocean for gifts he flies:
    Tis wisdom to give much; a gift prevails
    When deep persuading oratory fails,
      By this, Leander, being near the land,
    Cast down his weary feet, and felt the sand.
    Breathless albeit he were, he rested not
    Till to the solitary tower he got;                               230
    And knocked and called: at which celestial noise
    The longing heart of Hero much more joys,
    Than nymphs and shepherds when the timbrel rings,
    Or crookËd dolphin when the sailor sings.
    She stayed not for her robes, but straight arose,
    And, drunk with gladness, to the door she goes;
    Where seeing a naked man, she screeched for fear
    (Such sights as this to tender maids are rare),
    And ran into the dark herself to hide
    (Rich jewels in the dark are soonest spied).                     240
    Unto her was he led, or rather drawn,
    By those white limbs which sparkled through the lawn.
    The nearer that he came, the more she fled,
    And, seeking refuge, slipt into her bed;
    Whereon Leander sitting, thus began,
    Through numbing cold, all feeble, faint, and wan.
    "If not for love, yet, love, for pity-sake,
    Me in thy bed and maiden bosom take;
    At least vouchsafe these arms some little room,
    Who, hoping to embrace thee, cheerly swoom:                      250
    This head was beat with many a churlish billow,
    And therefore let it rest upon thy pillow."
    Herewith affrighted, Hero shrunk away,
    And in her lukewarm place Leander lay;
    Whose lively heat, like fire from heaven fet,[35]
    Would animate gross clay, and higher set
    The drooping thoughts of base-declining souls,
    Than dreary-Mars-carousing nectar bowls.
    His hands he cast upon her like a snare:
    She, overcome with shame and sallow[36] fear,                    260
    Like chaste Diana when ActÊon spied her,
    Being suddenly betray'd, div'd down to hide her;
    And, as her silver body downward went,
    With both her hands she made the bed a tent,
    And in her own mind thought herself secure,
    O'ercast with dim and darksome coverture.
    And now she lets him whisper in her ear,
    Flatter, entreat, promise, protest, and swear:
    Yet ever, as he greedily assay'd
    To touch those dainties, she the harpy play'd,                   270
    And every limb did, as a soldier stout,
    Defend the fort, and keep the foeman out;
    For though the rising ivory mount he scal'd,
    Which is with azure circling lines empal'd,
    Much like a globe (a globe may I term this,
    By which Love sails to regions full of bliss),
    Yet there with Sisyphus he toil'd in vain,
    Till gentle parley did the truce obtain
    Even[37] as a bird, which in our hands we wring,
    Forth plungeth, and oft flutters with her wing,                  280
    She trembling strove: this strife of hers, like that
    Which made the world, another world begat
    Of unknown joy. Treason was in her thought,
    And cunningly to yield herself she sought.
    Seeming not won, yet won she was at length:
    In such wars women use but half their strength.
    Leander now, like Theban Hercules,
    Enter'd the orchard of th' Hesperides;
    Whose fruit none rightly can describe, but he
    That pulls or shakes it from the golden tree.                    290
    Wherein Leander, on her quivering breast,
    Breathless spoke something, and sigh'd out the rest;
    Which so prevail'd, as he with small ado,
    Enclos'd her in his arms, and kiss'd her too:
    And every kiss to her was as a charm,
    And to Leander as a fresh alarm:
    So that the truce was broke, and she, alas,
    Poor silly maiden, at his mercy was.
    Love is not full of pity, as men say,
    But deaf and cruel where he means to prey.                       300
      And now she wish'd this night were never done,
    And sigh'd to think upon th' approaching sun;
    For much it griev'd her that the bright day-light
    Should know the pleasure of this blessËd night,
    And them, like Mars and Erycine, display[38]
    Both in each other's arms chain'd as they lay.
    Again, she knew not how to frame her look,
    Or speak to him, who in a moment took
    That which so long, so charily she kept;
    And fain by stealth away she would have crept,                   310
    And to some corner secretly have gone,
    Leaving Leander in the bed alone.
    But as her naked feet were whipping out,
    He on the sudden cling'd her so about,
    That, mermaid-like, unto the floor she slid;
    One half appear'd, the other half was hid.
    Thus near the bed she blushing stood upright,
    And from her countenance behold ye might
    A kind of twilight break, which through the air,[39]
    As from an orient cloud, glimps'd[40] here and there;            320
    And round about the chamber this false morn
    Brought forth the day before the day was born.
    So Hero's ruddy cheek Hero betray'd,
    And her all naked to his sight display'd:
    Whence his admiring eyes more pleasure took
    Than Dis,[41] on heaps of gold fixing his look.
    By this, Apollo's golden harp began
    To sound forth music to the ocean;
    Which watchful Hesperus no sooner heard,
    But he the bright Day-bearing car[42] prepar'd,                  330
    And ran before, as harbinger of light,
    And with his flaring beams mock'd ugly Night,
    Till she, o'ercome with anguish, shame, and rage,
    Dang'd[43] down to hell her loathsome carriage.

FOOTNOTES:

[26] Cf. _Rom. and Jul._ v. 1--

    "I dreamed my lady came and found me dead,
    Strange dream that gives a dead man leave to think!--
    And _breathed such life with kisses in my lips_,
    That I revived and was an emperor."

[27] Omitted in eds. 1600, 1606, 1613, and 1637.

[28] Peised, weighed.

[29] Rooms were strewed with rushes before the introduction of carpets.
Shakespeare, like Marlowe, attributed the customs of his own day to
ancient times. Cf. _Cymb._ ii. 2--

                "Our Tarquin thus
    Did softly press the _rushes_ ere he wakened
    The chastity he wounded."

[30] Old eds. "crau'd."

[31] Some eds. give "O, none have power but gods."

[32] "In ages and countries where mechanical ingenuity has but few
outlets it exhausts itself in the constructions of bits, each more
peculiar in form or more torturing in effect than that which has
preceded it. I have seen collections of these instruments of torments,
and among them some of which Marlowe's curious adjective would have been
highly descriptive. It may be, however, that the word is 'ring-led,' in
which shape it would mean guided by the ring on each side like a
snaffle."--_Cunningham._

[33] Some eds. give "so faire and kind." Cf. _Othello_, iv. 2--

                                  "O thou wind
    Who art so _lovely-fair_ and smell'st so sweet."

[34] Ed. 1613 and later eds. "upstarting."

[35] Fetched

[36] Some eds. give "shallow."

[37] In the old eds. this line and the next stood after l. 300. The
transposition was made by Singer in the edition of 1821.

[38] Old eds.--"then ... displaid," and in the next line "laid."

[39] Old eds. "heare" and "haire."

[40] Old eds. "glympse."

[41] Pluto was frequently identified by the Greeks with Plutus.

[42] Old eds. "day bright-bearing car."

[43] Dinged, dashed. Some eds. give "hurled."--Here Marlowe's share
ends.

THE EPISTLE[44] DEDICATORY

TO MY

BEST ESTEEMED AND WORTHILY HONOURED LADY THE

LADY WALSINGHAM,

ONE OF THE LADIES OF HER MAJESTY'S BED-CHAMBER.

I present your ladyship with the last affections of the first two Lovers
that ever Muse shrined in the Temple of Memory; being drawn by strange
instigation to employ some of my serious time in so trifling a subject,
which yet made the first Author, divine Musaeus, eternal. And were it
not that we must subject our accounts of these common received conceits
to servile custom, it goes much against my hand to sign that for a
trifling subject on which more worthiness of soul hath been shewed, and
weight of divine wit, than can vouchsafe residence in the leaden gravity
of any money-monger; in whose profession all serious subjects are
concluded. But he that shuns trifles must shun the world; out of whose
reverend heaps of substance and austerity I can and will ere long single
or tumble out as brainless and passionate fooleries as ever panted in
the bosom of the most ridiculous lover. Accept it, therefore, good
Madam, though as a trifle, yet as a serious argument of my affection;
for to be thought thankful for all free and honourable favours is a
great sum of that riches my whole thrift intendeth.

Such uncourtly and silly dispositions as mine, whose contentment hath
other objects than profit or glory, are as glad, simply for the naked
merit of virtue, to honour such as advance her, as others that are hard
to commend with deepliest politique bounty.

It hath therefore adjoined much contentment to my desire of your true
honour to hear men of desert in court add to mine own knowledge of your
noble disposition how gladly you do your best to prefer their desires,
and have as absolute respect to their mere good parts as if they came
perfumed and charmed with golden incitements. And this most sweet
inclination, that flows from the truth and eternity of Nobles[se],
assure your Ladyship doth more suit your other ornaments, and makes more
to the advancement of your name and happiness of your proceedings, than
if like others you displayed ensigns of state and sourness in your
forehead, made smooth with nothing but sensuality and presents.

This poor Dedication (in figure of the other unity betwixt Sir Thomas
and yourself) hath rejoined you with him, my honoured best friend; whose
continuance of ancient kindness to my still-obscured estate, though it
cannot increase my love to him which hath been entirely circular; yet
shall it encourage my deserts to their utmost requital, and make my
hearty gratitude speak; to which the unhappiness of my life hath
hitherto been uncomfortable and painful dumbness.

By your Ladyship's vowed in

            most wished service,

                     GEORGE CHAPMAN.

FOOTNOTES:

[44] This Epistle is only found in the Isham copy, 1598.

THE THIRD SESTIAD.

_The Argument of the Third Sestiad._

        Leander to the envious light
        Resigns his night-sports with the night,
        And swims the Hellespont again.
        Thesme, the deity sovereign
        Of customs and religious rites,
        Appears, reproving[45] his delights,
        Since nuptial honours he neglected;
        Which straight he vows shall be effected.
        Fair Hero, left devirginate,
        Weighs, and with fury wails her state;                        10
        But with her love and woman's wit
        She argues and approveth it.

    New light gives new directions, fortunes new,
    To fashion our endeavours that ensue.
    More harsh, at least more hard, more grave and high
    Our subject runs, and our stern Muse must fly.
    Love's edge is taken off, and that light flame,
    Those thoughts, joys, longings, that before became
    High unexperienc'd blood, and maids' sharp plights,
    Must now grow staid, and censure the delights,
    That, being enjoy'd, ask judgment; now we praise,
    As having parted: evenings crown the days.                        10
      And now, ye wanton Loves, and young Desires,
    Pied Vanity, the mint of strange attires,
    Ye lisping Flatteries, and obsequious Glances,
    Relentful Musics, and attractive Dances,
    And you detested Charms constraining love!
    Shun love's stoln sports by that these lovers prove.
      By this, the sovereign of heaven's golden fires,
    And young Leander, lord of his desires,
    Together from their lovers' arms arose:
    Leander into Hellespontus throws                                  20
    His Hero-handled body, whose delight
    Made him disdain each other epithite.
    And as amidst th' enamour'd waves he swims,
    The god of gold[46] of purpose gilt his limbs,
    That, this word _gilt_[47] including double sense,
    The double guilt of his incontinence
    Might be express'd, that had no stay t' employ
    The treasure which the love-god let him joy
    In his dear Hero, with such sacred thrift
    As had beseem'd so sanctified a gift;                             30
    But, like a greedy vulgar prodigal,
    Would on the stock dispend, and rudely fall,
    Before his time, to that unblessËd blessing
    Which, for lust's plague, doth perish with possessing:
    Joy graven in sense, like snow[48] in water, wasts:
    Without preserve of virtue, nothing lasts.
    What man is he, that with a wealthy eye
    Enjoys a beauty richer than the sky,
    Through whose white skin, softer than soundest sleep,
    With damask eyes the ruby blood doth peep,                        40
    And runs in branches through her azure veins,
    Whose mixture and first fire his love attains;
    Whose both hands limit both love's deities,
    And sweeten human thoughts like Paradise;
    Whose disposition silken is and kind,
    Directed with an earth-exempted mind;--
    Who thinks not heaven with such a love is given?
    And who, like earth, would spend that dower of heaven,
    With rank desire to joy it all at first?
    What simply kills our hunger, quencheth thirst,                   50
    Clothes but our nakedness, and makes us live,
    Praise doth not any of her favours give:
    But what doth plentifully minister
    Beauteous apparel and delicious cheer,
    So order'd that it still excites desire,
    And still gives pleasure freeness to aspire,
    The palm of Bounty ever moist preserving;
    To Love's sweet life this is the courtly carving.
    Thus Time and all-states-ordering Ceremony
    Had banish'd all offence: Time's golden thigh                     60
    Upholds the flowery body of the earth
    In sacred harmony, and every birth
    Of men and actions[49] makes legitimate;
    Being us'd aright, the use of time is fate.
      Yet did the gentle flood transfer once more
    This prize of love home to his father's shore;
    Where he unlades himself on that false wealth
    That makes few rich,--treasures compos'd by stealth;
    And to his sister, kind Hermione
    (Who on the shore kneel'd, praying to the sea                     70
    For his return), he all love's goods did show,
    In Hero seis'd for him, in him for Hero.
      His most kind sister all his secrets knew,
    And to her, singing, like a shower, he flew,
    Sprinkling the earth, that to their tombs took in
    Streams dead for love, to leave his ivory shin,
    Which yet a snowy foam did leave above,
    As soul to the dead water that did love;
    And from hence did the first white roses spring
    (For love is sweet and fair in everything),                       80
    And all the sweeten'd shore, as he did go,
    Was crown'd with odorous roses, white as snow.
    Love-blest Leander was with love so fill'd,
    That love to all that touch'd him he instill'd;
    And as the colours of all things we see,
    To our sight's powers communicated be,
    So to all objects that in compass came
    Of any sense he had, his senses' flame
    Flow'd from his parts with force so virtual,
    It fir'd with sense things mere[50] insensual.                    90
      Now, with warm baths and odours comforted,
    When he lay down, he kindly kiss'd his bed,
    As consecrating it to Hero's right,
    And vow'd thereafter, that whatever sight
    Put him in mind of Hero or her bliss,
    Should be her altar to prefer a kiss.
      Then laid he forth his late-enrichËd arms,
    In whose white circle Love writ all his charms,
    And made his characters sweet Hero's limbs,
    When on his breast's warm sea she sideling swims;                100
    And as those arms, held up in circle, met,
    He said, "See, sister, Hero's carquenet!
    Which she had rather wear about her neck,
    Than all the jewels that do Juno deck."
      But, as he shook with passionate desire
    To put in flame his other secret fire,
    A music so divine did pierce his ear,
    As never yet his ravish'd sense did hear;
    When suddenly a light of twenty hues
    Brake through the roof, and, like the rainbow, views,            110
    Amaz'd Leander: in whose beams came down
    The goddess Ceremony, with a crown
    Of all the stars; and Heaven with her descended:
    Her flaming hair to her bright feet extended,
    By which hung all the bench of deities;
    And in a chain, compact of ears and eyes,
    She led Religion: all her body was
    Clear and transparent as the purest glass,
    For she was all[51] presented to the sense:
    Devotion, Order, State, and Reverence,                           120
    Her shadows were; Society, Memory;
    All which her sight made live, her absence die.
    A rich disparent pentacle[52] she wears,
    Drawn full of circles and strange characters.
    Her face was changeable to every eye;
    One way look'd ill, another graciously;
    Which while men view'd, they cheerful were and holy,
    But looking off, vicious and melancholy.
    The snaky paths to each observËd law
    Did Policy in her broad bosom draw.                              130
    One hand a mathematic crystal sways,
    Which, gathering in one line a thousand rays
    From her bright eyes, Confusion burns to death,
    And all estates of men distinguisheth:
    By it Morality and Comeliness
    Themselves in all their sightly figures dress.
    Her other hand a laurel rod applies,
    To beat back Barbarism and Avarice,
    That follow'd, eating earth and excrement
    And human limbs; and would make proud ascent                     140
    To seats of gods, were Ceremony slain.
    The Hours and Graces bore her glorious train;
    And all the sweets of our society
    Were spher'd and treasur'd in her bounteous eye.
    Thus she appear'd, and sharply did reprove
    Leander's bluntness in his violent love;
    Told him how poor was substance without rites,
    Like bills unsign'd; desires without delights;
    Like meats unseason'd; like rank corn that grows
    On cottages, that none or reaps or sows;                         150
    Not being with civil forms confirm'd and bounded,
    For human dignities and comforts founded;
    But loose and secret all their glories hide;
    Fear fills the chamber, Darkness decks the bride.
      She vanish'd, leaving pierc'd Leander's heart
    With sense of his unceremonious part,
    In which, with plain neglect of nuptial rites,
    He close and flatly fell to his delights:
    And instantly he vow'd to celebrate
    All rites pertaining to his married state.                       160
    So up he gets, and to his father goes,
    To whose glad ears he doth his vows disclose.
    The nuptials are resolv'd with utmost power;
    And he at night would swim to Hero's tower,
    From whence he meant to Sestos' forkËd bay
    To bring her covertly, where ships must stay,
    Sent by his[53] father, throughly rigg'd and mann'd,
    To waft her safely to Abydos' strand.
    There leave we him; and with fresh wing pursue
    Astonish'd Hero, whose most wishËd view                          170
    I thus long have foreborne, because I left her
    So out of countenance, and her spirits bereft her:
    To look on one abash'd is impudence,
    When of slight faults he hath too deep a sense.
    Her blushing het[54] her chamber; she look'd out,
    And all the air she purpled round about;
    And after it a foul black day befell,
    Which ever since a red morn doth foretell,
    And still renews our woes for Hero's woe;
    And foul it prov'd because it figur'd so                         180
    The next night's horror; which prepare to hear;
    I fail, if it profane your daintiest ear.
      Then, ho,[55] most strangely-intellectual fire,
    That, proper to my soul, hast power t' inspire
    Her burning faculties, and with the wings
    Of thy unspherËd flame visit'st the springs
    Of spirits immortal! Now (as swift as Time
    Doth follow Motion) find th' eternal clime
    Of his free soul, whose living subject[56] stood
    Up to the chin in the Pierian flood,                             190
    And drunk to me half this MusÊan story,
    Inscribing it to deathless memory:
    Confer with it, and make my pledge as deep,
    That neither's draught be consecrate to sleep;
    Tell it how much his late desires I tender
    (If yet it know not), and to light surrender
    My soul's dark offspring, willing it should die
    To loves, to passions, and society.
      Sweet Hero, left upon her bed alone,
    Her maidenhead, her vows, Leander gone,                          200
    And nothing with her but a violent crew
    Of new-come thoughts, that yet she never knew,
    Even to herself a stranger, was much like
    Th' Iberian city[57] that War's hand did strike
    By English force in princely Essex' guide,
    When Peace assur'd her towers had fortified,
    And golden-finger'd India had bestow'd
    Such wealth on her, that strength and empire flow'd
    Into her turrets, and her virgin waist
    The wealthy girdle of the sea embraced;                          210
    Till our Leander, that made Mars his Cupid,
    For soft love-suits, with iron thunders chid;
    Swum to her towers,[58] dissolv'd her virgin zone;
    Led in his power, and made Confusion
    Run through her streets amaz'd, that she suppos'd
    She had not been in her own walls enclos'd,
    But rapt by wonder to some foreign state,
    Seeing all her issue so disconsolate,
    And all her peaceful mansions possess'd
    With war's just spoil, and many a foreign guest                  220
    From every corner driving an enjoyer,
    Supplying it with power of a destroyer.
    So far'd fair Hero in th' expugnËd fort
    Of her chaste bosom; and of every sort
    Strange thoughts possess'd her, ransacking her breast
    For that that was not there, her wonted rest.
    She was a mother straight, and bore with pain
    Thoughts that spake straight, and wish'd their mother slain;
    She hates their lives, and they their own and hers:
    Such strife still grows where sin the race prefers:              230
    Love is a golden bubble, full of dreams,
    That waking breaks, and fills us with extremes.
    She mus'd how she could look upon her sire,
    And not shew that without, that was intire;[59]
    For as a glass is an inanimate eye,
    And outward forms embraceth inwardly,
    So is the eye an animate glass, that shows
    In-forms without us; and as Phoebus throws
    His beams abroad, though he in clouds be clos'd,
    Still glancing by them till he find oppos'd                      240
    A loose and rorid vapour that is fit
    T' event[60] his searching beams, and useth it
    To form a tender twenty-colour'd eye,
    Cast in a circle round about the sky;
    So when our fiery soul, our body's star,
    (That ever is in motion circular,)
    Conceives a form, in seeking to display it
    Through all our cloudy parts, it doth convey it
    Forth at the eye, as the most pregnant place,
    And that reflects it round about the face.                       250
    And this event, uncourtly Hero thought,
    Her inward guilt would in her looks have wrought;
    For yet the world's stale cunning she resisted,
    To bear foul thoughts, yet forge what looks she listed,
    And held it for a very silly sleight,
    To make a perfect metal counterfeit,
    Glad to disclaim herself, proud of an art
    That makes the face a pandar to the heart.
    Those be the painted moons, whose lights profane
    Beauty's true Heaven, at full still in their wane;               260
    Those be the lapwing-faces that still cry,
    "Here 'tis!" when that they vow is nothing nigh:
    Base fools! when every moorish fool[61] can teach
    That which men think the height of human reach.
    But custom, that the apoplexy is
    Of bed-rid nature and lives led amiss,
    And takes away all feeling of offence,
    Yet braz'd not Hero's brow with impudence;
    And this she thought most hard to bring to pass,
    To seem in countenance other than she was,                       270
    As if she had two souls, one for the face,
    One for the heart, and that they shifted place
    As either list to utter or conceal
    What they conceiv'd, or as one soul did deal
    With both affairs at once, keeps and ejects
    Both at an instant contrary effects;
    Retention and ejection in her powers
    Being acts alike; for this one vice of ours,
    That forms the thought, and sways the countenance,
    Rules both our motion and our utterance.                         280
      These and more grave conceits toil'd Hero's spirits;
    For, though the light of her discoursive wits
    Perhaps might find some little hole to pass
    Through all these worldly cinctures, yet, alas!
    There was a heavenly flame encompass'd her,--
    Her goddess, in whose fane she did prefer
    Her virgin vows, from whose impulsive sight
    She knew the black shield of the darkest night
    Could not defend her, nor wit's subtlest art:
    This was the point pierc'd Hero to the heart;                    290
    Who, heavy to the death, with a deep sigh,
    And hand that languished, took a robe was nigh,
    Exceeding large, and of black cypres[62] made,
    In which she sate, hid from the day in shade,
    Even over head and face, down to her feet;
    Her left hand made it at her bosom meet,
    Her right hand lean'd on her heart-bowing knee,
    Wrapp'd in unshapeful folds, 'twas death to see;
    Her knee stay'd that, and that her falling face;
    Each limb help'd other to put on disgrace:                       300
    No form was seen, where form held all her sight;
    But like an embryon that saw never light,
    Or like a scorchËd statue made a coal
    With three-wing'd lightning, or a wretched soul
    Muffled with endless darkness, she did sit:
    The night had never such a heavy spirit.
    Yet might a penetrating[63] eye well see
    How fast her clear tears melted on her knee
    Through her black veil, and turn'd as black as it,
    Mourning to be her tears. Then wrought her wit                   310
    With her broke vow, her goddess' wrath, her fame,--
    All tools that enginous[64] despair could frame:
    Which made her strew the floor with her torn hair,
    And spread her mantle piece-meal in the air.
    Like Jove's son's club, strong passion struck her down,
    And with a piteous shriek enforc'd her swoun:
    Her shriek made with another shriek ascend
    The frighted matron that on her did tend;
    And as with her own cry her sense was slain,
    So with the other it was called again.                           320
    She rose, and to her bed made forcËd way,
    And laid her down even where Leander lay;
    And all this while the red sea of her blood
    Ebb'd with Leander: but now turn'd the flood,
    And all her fleet of spirits came swelling in,
    With child[65] of sail, and did hot fight begin
    With those severe conceits she too much marked:
    And here Leander's beauties were embarked.
    He came in swimming, painted all with joys,
    Such as might sweeten hell: his thought destroys                 330
    All her destroying thoughts; she thought she felt
    His heart in hers, with her contentions melt,
    And chide her soul that it could so much err,
    To check the true joys he deserved in her.
    Her fresh-heat blood cast figures in her eyes,
    And she suppos'd she saw in Neptune's skies
    How her star wander'd, wash'd in smarting brine,
    For her love's sake, that with immortal wine
    Should be embath'd, and swim in more heart's-ease
    Than there was water in the Sestian seas.                        340
    Then said her Cupid-prompted spirit, "Shall I
    Sing moans to such delightsome harmony?
    Shall slick-tongu'd Fame, patch'd up with voices rude,
    The drunken bastard of the multitude
    (Begot when father Judgment is away,
    And, gossip-like, says because others say,
    Takes news as if it were too hot to eat,
    And spits it slavering forth for dog-fees meat),
    Make me, for forging a fantastic vow,
    Presume to bear what makes grave matrons bow?                    350
    Good vows are never broken with good deeds,
    For then good deeds were bad: vows are but seeds,
    And good deeds fruits; even those good deeds that grow
    From other stocks than from th' observËd vow.
    That is a good deed that prevents a bad:
    Had I not yielded, slain myself I had.
    Hero Leander is, Leander Hero;
    Such virtue love hath to make one of two.
    If, then, Leander did my maidenhead git,
    Leander being myself, I still retain it:                         360
    We break chaste vows when we live loosely ever,
    But bound as we are, we live loosely never:
    Two constant lovers being join'd in one,
    Yielding to one another, yield to none.
    We know not how to vow till love unblind us,
    And vows made ignorantly never bind us.
    Too true it is, that, when 'tis gone, men hate
    The joy[66] as vain they took in love's estate:
    But that's since they have lost the heavenly light
    Should show them way to judge of all things right.               370
    When life is gone, death must implant his terror:
    As death is foe to life, so love to error.
    Before we love, how range we through this sphere,
    Searching the sundry fancies hunted here:
    Now with desire of wealth transported quite
    Beyond our free humanity's delight;
    Now with ambition climbing falling towers,
    Whose hope to scale, our fear to fall devours;
    Now rapt with pastimes, pomp, all joys impure:
    In things without us no delight is sure.                         380
    But love, with all joys crowned, within doth sit:
    O goddess, pity love, and pardon it!"
    Thus spake she[67] weeping: but her goddess' ear
    Burn'd with too stern a heat, and would not hear.
    Ay me! hath heaven's strait fingers no more graces
    For such as Hero[68] than for homeliest faces?
    Yet she hoped well, and in her sweet conceit
    Weighing her arguments, she thought them weight,
    And that the logic of Leander's beauty,
    And them together, would bring proofs of duty;                   390
    And if her soul, that was a skilful glance
    Of heaven's great essence, found such imperance[69]
    In her love's beauties, she had confidence
    Jove loved him too, and pardoned her offence:
    Beauty in heaven and earth this grace doth win,
    It supples rigour, and it lessens sin.
    Thus, her sharp wit, her love, her secrecy,
    Trooping together, made her wonder why
    She should not leave her bed, and to the temple;
    Her health said she must live; her sex, dissemble.               400
    She viewed Leander's place, and wished he were
    Turned to his place, so his place were Leander.
    "Ay me," said she, "that love's sweet life and sense
    Should do it harm! my love had not gone hence
    Had he been like his place: O blessËd place,
    Image of constancy! Thus my love's grace
    Parts nowhere, but it leaves something behind
    Worth observation: he renowns his kind:
    His motion is, like heaven's, orbicular,
    For where he once is, he is ever there.                          410
    This place was mine; Leander, now 'tis thine;
    Thou being myself, then it is double mine,
    Mine, and Leander's mine, Leander's mine.
    O, see what wealth it yields me, nay, yields him!
    For I am in it, he for me doth swim.
    Rich, fruitful love, that, doubling self estates,
    Elixir-like contracts, though separates!
    Dear place, I kiss thee, and do welcome thee,
    As from Leander ever sent to me."

FOOTNOTES:

[45] Old eds. "improving."

[46] "He calls Phoebus the god of gold, since the virtue of his beams
creates it."--Marginal note in the Isham copy.

[47] The reader will remember how grimly Lady Macbeth plays upon this
word:--

    "I'll _gild_ the faces of the grooms withal:
    For it must seem their _guilt_."--ii. 2.

[48] "It is not likely that Burns had ever read _Hero and Leander_, but
compare _Tam o' Shanter_--

    'But pleasures are like poppies spread,
    You seize the flower, its bloom is shed,
    Or like the snow falls in the river,
    A moment white--then melts for ever!'"

--_Cunningham._

[49] In _England's Parnassus_ the reading is "of men audacious."

[50] Wholly.

[51] Some eds. give "For as she was."

[52] A magical figure formed of intersected triangles. It was supposed
to preserve the wearer from the assaults of demons. "Disparent would
seem to mean that the five points of the ornaments radiated distinctly
one from the other."--_Cunningham._

[53] Old eds. "her."

[54] Heated.

[55] Old eds. "how."

[56] Substance, as opposed to spirit. Cf. note. Vol. i., 203.

[57] Cadiz, which was taken in June 21, 1596, by the force under the
joint command of Essex and Howard of Effingham.

[58] So the Isham copy.--The other old eds. read "townes," for which
Dyce gives "town."

[59] Within.

[60] Vent forth.

[61] "Fowl" and "fool" had the same pronunciation. Cf. _3 Henry VI._ v.
6:--

    "Why, what a peevish _fool_ was he of Crete,
    That taught his son the office of a _fowl_!
    And yet for all his wings the _fool_ was drowned."

The "moorish fool" is explained by the allusion to the lapwing, two
lines above. (The lapwing was supposed to draw the searcher from her
nest by crying in other places. "The lapwing cries most furthest from
her nest."--_Ray's Proverbs._)

[62] A kind of crape.

[63] So the modern editors for an "imitating."

[64] Ingenious. Chapman has the form "enginous" in his translation of
the Odyssey, i. 452,

    "By open force or prospects _enginous_."

[65] Some modern editors unnecessarily give "With _crowd_ of sail."

[66] Old eds. "joys."

[67] Old eds. "he."

[68] Some eds. give "For such a Hero."

[69] Command.

THE FOURTH SESTIAD.

_The Argument of the Fourth Sestiad._

        Hero, in sacred habit deckt,
        Doth private sacrifice effect.
        Her scarf's description, wrought by Fate;
        Ostents that threaten her estate;
        The strange, yet physical, events,
        Leander's counterfeit[70] presents.
        In thunder Cyprides descends,
        Presaging both the lovers' ends:
        Ecte, the goddess of remorse,
        With vocal and articulate force                               10
        Inspires Leucote, Venus' swan,
        T' excuse the Beauteous Sestian.
        Venus, to wreak her rites' abuses,
        Creates the monster Eronusis,
        Inflaming Hero's sacrifice
        With lightning darted from her eyes;
        And thereof springs the painted beast
        That ever since taints every breast.

    Now from Leander's place she rose, and found
    Her hair and rent robe scatter'd on the ground;
    Which taking up, she every piece did lay
    Upon an altar, where in youth of day
    She us'd t' exhibit private sacrifice:
    Those would she offer to the deities
    Of her fair goddess and her powerful son,
    As relics of her late-felt passion;
    And in that holy sort she vow'd to end them,
    In hope her violent fancies, that did rend them,                  10
    Would as quite fade in her love's holy fire,
    As they should in the flames she meant t' inspire.
    Then put she on all her religious weeds,
    That decked her in her secret sacred deeds;
    A crown of icicles, that sun nor fire
    Could ever melt, and figur'd chaste desire;
    A golden star shined in her naked breast,
    In honour of the queen-light of the east.
    In her right hand she held a silver wand,
    On whose bright top Peristera did stand.                          20
    Who was a nymph, but now transformed a dove,
    And in her life was dear in Venus' love;
    And for her sake she ever since that time
    Choosed doves to draw her coach through heaven's blue clime.
    Her plenteous hair in curlËd billows swims
    On her bright shoulder: her harmonious limbs
    Sustained no more but a most subtile veil,
    That hung on them, as it durst not assail
    Their different concord; for the weakest air
    Could raise it swelling from her beauties fair;                   30
    Nor did it cover, but adumbrate only
    Her most heart-piercing parts, that a blest eye
    Might see, as it did shadow, fearfully,
    All that all-love-deserving paradise:
    It was as blue as the most freezing skies;
    Near the sea's hue, for thence her goddess came:
    On it a scarf she wore of wondrous frame;
    In midst whereof she wrought a virgin's face,
    From whose each cheek a fiery blush did chase
    Two crimson flames, that did two ways extend,                     40
    Spreading the ample scarf to either end;
    Which figur'd the division of her mind,
    Whiles yet she rested bashfully inclin'd,
    And stood not resolute to wed Leander;
    This serv'd her white neck for a purple sphere,
    And cast itself at full breadth down her back:
    There, since the first breath that begun the wrack
    Of her free quiet from Leander's lips,
    She wrought a sea, in one flame, full of ships;
    But that one ship where all her wealth did pass,                  50
    Like simple merchants' goods, Leander was;
    For in that sea she naked figured him;
    Her diving needle taught him how to swim,
    And to each thread did such resemblance give,
    For joy to be so like him it did live:
    Things senseless live by art, and rational die
    By rude contempt of art and industry.
    Scarce could she work, but, in her strength of thought,
    She fear'd she prick'd Leander as she wrought,[71]
    And oft would shriek so, that her guardian, frighted,             60
    Would startling haste, as with some mischief cited:
    They double life that dead things' griefs sustain;
    They kill that feel not their friends' living pain.
    Sometimes she fear'd he sought her infamy;
    And then, as she was working of his eye,
    She thought to prick it out to quench her ill;
    But, as she prick'd, it grew more perfect still:
    Trifling attempts no serious acts advance;
    The fire of love is blown by dalliance.
    In working his fair neck she did so grace it,                     70
    She still was working her own arms t' embrace it:
    That, and his shoulders, and his hands were seen
    Above the stream; and with a pure sea-green
    She did so quaintly shadow every limb,
    All might be seen beneath the waves to swim.
      In this conceited scarf she wrought beside
    A moon in change, and shooting stars did glide
    In number after her with bloody beams;
    Which figur'd her affects[72] in their extremes,
    Pursuing nature in her Cynthian body,                             80
    And did her thoughts running on change imply;
    For maids take more delight, when they prepare,
    And think of wives' states, than when wives they are.
    Beneath all these she wrought a fisherman,[73]
    Drawing his nets from forth the ocean;
    Who drew so hard, ye might discover well
    The toughen'd sinews in his neck did swell:
    His inward strains drave out his blood-shot eyes,
    And springs of sweat did in his forehead rise;
    Yet was of naught but of a serpent sped,                          90
    That in his bosom flew and stung him dead:
    And this by Fate into her mind was sent,
    Not wrought by mere instinct of her intent.
    At the scarf's other end her hand did frame,
    Near the fork'd point of the divided flame,
    A country virgin keeping of a vine,
    Who did of hollow bulrushes combine
    Snares for the stubble-loving grasshopper,
    And by her lay her scrip that nourish'd her.
    Within a myrtle shade she sate and sung;                         100
    And tufts of waving reeds above her sprung,
    Where lurked two foxes, that, while she applied
    Her trifling snares, their thieveries did divide,
    One to the vine, another to her scrip,
    That she did negligently overslip;
    By which her fruitful vine and wholesome fare
    She suffered spoiled to make a childish snare.
    These ominous fancies did her soul express,
    And every finger made a prophetess,
    To show what death was hid in love's disguise,                   110
    And make her judgment conquer Destinies.
    O, what sweet forms fair ladies' souls do shroud,
    Were they made seen and forcËd through their blood;
    If through their beauties, like rich work through lawn,
    They would set forth their minds with virtues drawn,
    In letting graces from their fingers fly,
    To still their eyas[74] thoughts with industry;
    That their plied wits in numbered silks might sing
    Passion's huge conquest, and their needles[75] leading
    Affection prisoner through their own-built cities,               120
    Pinioned with stones and Arachnean ditties.
      Proceed we now with Hero's sacrifice:
    She odours burned, and from their smoke did rise
    Unsavoury fumes, that air with plagues inspired;
    And then the consecrated sticks she fired.
    On whose pale flames an angry spirit flew,
    And beat it down still as it upward grew;
    The virgin tapers that on th' altar stood,
    When she inflam'd them, burned as red as blood;[76]
    All sad ostents of that too near success,[77]                    130
    That made such moving beauties motionless.
    Then Hero wept; but her affrighted eyes
    She quickly wrested from the sacrifice,
    Shut them, and inwards for Leander looked,
    Search'd her soft bosom, and from thence she plucked
    His lovely picture; which when she had viewed,
    Her beauties were with all love's joys renewed;
    The odours sweeten'd, and the fires burned clear,
    Leander's form left no ill object there:
    Such was his beauty, that the force of light,                    140
    Whose knowledge teacheth wonders infinite,
    The strength of number and proportion,
    Nature had placed in it to make it known,
    Art was her daughter, and what human wits
    For study lost, entombed in drossy spirits.
    After this accident (which for her glory
    Hero could not but make a history),
    Th' inhabitants of Sestos and Abydos
    Did every year, with feasts propitious,
    To fair Leander's picture sacrifice:                             150
    And they were persons of especial price
    That were allowed it, as an ornament
    T' enrich their houses, for the continent
    Of the strange virtues all approved it held;
    For even the very look of it repelled
    All blastings, witchcrafts, and the strifes of nature
    In those diseases that no herbs could cure;
    The wolfy sting of avarice it would pull,
    And make the rankest miser bountiful;
    It kill'd the fear of thunder and of death;                      160
    The discords that conceit engendereth
    'Twixt man and wife, it for the time would cease;
    The flames of love it quench'd, and would increase;
    Held in a prince's hand, it would put out
    The dreadful'st comet; it would ease[78] all doubt
    Of threaten'd mischiefs; it would bring asleep
    Such as were mad; it would enforce to weep
    Most barbarous eyes; and many more effects
    This picture wrought, and sprung[79] Leandrian[80] sects;
    Of which was Hero first; for he whose form,                      170
    Held in her hand, clear'd such a fatal storm,
    From hell she thought his person would defend her,
    Which night and Hellespont would quickly send her.
    With this confirm'd, she vow'd to banish quite
    All thought of any check to her delight;
    And, in contempt of silly bashfulness,
    She would the faith of her desires profess,
    Where her religion should be policy,
    To follow love with zeal her piety;
    Her chamber her cathedral-church should be,                      180
    And her Leander her chief deity;
    For in her love these did the gods forego;
    And though her knowledge did not teach her so,
    Yet did it teach her this, that what her heart
    Did greatest hold in her self-greatest part,
    That she did make her god; and 'twas less naught
    To leave gods in profession and in thought,
    Than in her love and life; for therein lies
    Most of her duties and their dignities;
    And, rail the brain-bald world at what it will,                  190
    That's the grand atheism that reigns in it still.
    Yet singularity she would use no more,
    For she was singular too much before;
    But she would please the world with fair pretext:
    Love would not leave her conscience perplext:
    Great men that will have less do for them, still
    Must bear them out, though th' acts be ne'er so ill;
    Meanness must pander be to Excellence;
    Pleasure atones Falsehood and Conscience:
    Dissembling was the worst, thought Hero then,                    200
    And that was best, now she must live with men.
    O virtuous love, that taught her to do best
    When she did worst, and when she thought it least!
    Thus would she still proceed in works divine,
    And in her sacred state of priesthood shine,
    Handling the holy rites with hands as bold,
    As if therein she did Jove's thunder hold,
    And need not fear those menaces of error,
    Which she at others threw with greatest terror.
    O lovely Hero, nothing is thy sin,                               210
    Weigh'd with those foul faults other priests are in!
    That having neither faiths, nor works, nor beauties,
    T' engender any 'scuse for slubbered[81] duties,
    With as much countenance fill their holy chairs,
    And sweat denouncements 'gainst profane affairs,
    As if their lives were cut out by their places,
    And they the only fathers of the graces.
      Now, as with settled mind she did repair
    Her thoughts to sacrifice her ravished hair
    And her torn robe, which on the altar lay,                       220
    And only for religion's fire did stay,
    She heard a thunder by the Cyclops beaten,
    In such a volley as the world did threaten,
    Given Venus as she parted th' airy sphere,
    Descending now to chide with Hero here:
    When suddenly the goddess' waggoners,
    The swans and turtles that, in coupled pheres,[82]
    Through all worlds' bosoms draw her influence,
    Lighted in Hero's window, and from thence
    To her fair shoulders flew the gentle doves,--                   230
    Graceful _∆done_[83] that sweet pleasure loves,
    And ruff-foot Chreste[84] with the tufted crown;
    Both which did kiss her, though their goddess frown.
    The swans did in the solid flood, her glass,
    Proin[85] their fair plumes; of which the fairest was
    Jove-lov'd Leucote,[86] that pure brightness is;
    The other bounty-loving Dapsilis.[87]
    All were in heaven, now they with Hero were:
    But Venus' looks brought wrath, and urgËd fear.
    Her robe was scarlet; black her head's attire:                   240
    And through her naked breast shin'd streams of fire,
    As when the rarifiËd air is driven
    In flashing streams, and opes the darken'd heaven.
    In her white hand a wreath of yew she bore;
    And, breaking th' icy wreath sweet Hero wore,
    She forc'd about her brows her wreath of yew,
    And said, "Now, minion, to thy fate be true,
    Though not to me; endure what this portends:
    Begin where lightness will, in shame it ends.
    Love makes thee cunning; thou art current now,                   250
    By being counterfeit: thy broken vow
    Deceit with her pied garters must rejoin,
    And with her stamp thou countenances must coin;
    Coyness, and pure[88] deceits, for purities,
    And still a maid wilt seem in cozen'd eyes,
    And have an antic face to laugh within,
    While thy smooth looks make men digest thy sin.
    But since thy lips (least thought forsworn) forswore,
    Be never virgin's vow worth trusting more!"
      When Beauty's dearest did her goddess hear                     260
    Breathe such rebukes 'gainst that she could not clear,
    Dumb sorrow spake aloud in tears and blood,
    That from her grief-burst veins, in piteous flood,
    From the sweet conduits of her favour fell.
    The gentle turtles did with moans make swell
    Their shining gorges; the while black-ey'd swans
    Did sing as woful epicedians,
    As they would straightways die: when Pity's queen,
    The goddess Ecte,[89] that had ever been
    Hid in a watery cloud near Hero's cries,                         270
    Since the first instant of her broken eyes,
    Gave bright Leucote voice, and made her speak,
    To ease her anguish, whose swoln breast did break
    With anger at her goddess, that did touch
    Hero so near for that she us'd so much;
    And, thrusting her white neck at Venus, said:
    "Why may not amorous Hero seem a maid,
    Though she be none, as well as you suppress
    In modest cheeks your inward wantonness?
    How often have we drawn you from above,                          280
    T' exchange with mortals rites for rites in love!
    Why in your priest, then, call you that offence,
    That shines in you, and is[90] your influence?"
    With this, the Furies stopp'd Leucote's lips,
    Enjoin'd by Venus; who with rosy whips
    Beat the kind bird. Fierce lightning from her eyes
    Did set on fire fair Hero's sacrifice,
    Which was her torn robe and enforcËd hair;
    And the bright flame became a maid most fair
    For her aspËct: her tresses were of wire,                        290
    Knit like a net, where hearts set all on fire,
    Struggled in pants, and could not get releast;
    Her arms were all with golden pincers drest,
    And twenty-fashioned knots, pulleys, and brakes,
    And all her body girt with painted snakes;
    Her down-parts in a scorpion's tail combined,
    Freckled with twenty colours; pied wings shined
    Out of her shoulders; cloth had never dye,
    Nor sweeter colours never viewËd eye,
    In scorching Turkey, Cares, Tartary,                             300
    Than shined about this spirit notorious;
    Nor was Arachne's web so glorious.
    Of lightning and of shreds she was begot;
    More hold in base dissemblers is there not.
    Her name was Eronusis.[91] Venus flew
    From Hero's sight, and at her chariot drew
    This wondrous creature to so steep a height,
    That all the world she might command with sleight
    Of her gay wings; and then she bade her haste,--
    Since Hero had dissembled, and disgraced                         310
    Her rites so much,--and every breast infect
    With her deceits: she made her architect
    Of all dissimulation; and since then
    Never was any trust in maids or men.
                                        O, it spited
    Fair Venus' heart to see her most delighted,
    And one she choos'd, for temper of her mind
    To be the only ruler of her kind,
    So soon to let her virgin race be ended!
    Not simply for the fault a whit offended,                        320
    But that in strife for chasteness with the Moon,
    Spiteful Diana bade her show but one
    That was her servant vow'd, and liv'd a maid;
    And, now she thought to answer that upbraid,
    Hero had lost her answer: who knows not
    Venus would seem as far from any spot
    Of light demeanour, as the very skin
    'Twixt Cynthia's brows? sin is asham'd of sin.
    Up Venus flew, and scarce durst up for fear
    Of Phoebe's laughter, when she pass'd her sphere:                330
    And so most ugly-clouded was the light,
    That day was hid in day; night came ere night;
    And Venus could not through the thick air pierce,
    Till the day's king, god of undaunted verse,
    Because she was so plentiful a theme
    To such as wore his laurel anademe.
    Like to a fiery bullet made descent,
    And from her passage those fat vapours rent,
    That being not throughly rarified to rain,
    Melted like pitch, as blue as any vein;                          340
    And scalding tempests made the earth to shrink
    Under their fervour, and the world did think
    In every drop a torturing spirit flew,
    It pierc'd so deeply, and it burn'd so blue.
      Betwixt all this and Hero, Hero held
    Leander's picture, as a Persian shield;
    And she was free from fear of worst success:
    The more ill threats us, we suspect the less:
    As we grow hapless, violence subtle grows,
    Dumb, deaf, and blind, and comes when no man knows.              350

FOOTNOTES:

[70] Picture.

[71] "This conceit was suggested to Chapman by a passage in Skelton's
_Phyllyp Sparowe_:

    "But whan I was sowing his beke,
    Methought, my sparow did speke,
    And opened his prety byll,
    Saynge, Mayd, ye are in wyll
    Agayne me for to kyll,
    Ye prycke me in the head.'

--_Works_, I, 57, ed. Dyce."--_Dyce._

[72] Affections.

[73] "This description of the fisherman, as well as the picture which
follows it, are borrowed (with alterations) from the first _Idyl_ of
Theocritus."--_Dyce._

[74] "Eyas" is the name for an unfledged hawk. "Eyas thoughts" would
mean "thoughts not yet full-grown,--immature." Dyce thinks the meaning
of "eyas" here may be "restless." (Old eds. "yas.")

[75] A monosyllable.

[76] Some eds. give "them, then they burned as blood."

[77] Approaching catastrophe.

[78] Some eds. "and."

[79] Used transitively.

[80] Some eds. "Leanders."

[81] Shakespeare uses the verb "slubber" in the sense of "perform in a
slovenly manner" (_Merchant of Venice_, ii. 8, "Slubber not business for
my sake").

[82] Companions, yoke-mates.

[83] Gr. [Greek: hÍdonÍ].

[84] From Lat. _crista_?

[85] Prune.

[86] Gr. [Greek: leukotÍs].

[87] Gr. [Greek: dapsilÍs].

[88] Some eds. read "Coyne and impure."

[89] From Gr. [Greek: oiktos]?

[90] Some eds. "in."

[91] "A compound, probably, from [Greek: erÙs] and [Greek: nosos] or
[Greek: nousos] _Ionice_." Ed. 1821.

THE FIFTH SESTIAD.

_The Argument of the Fifth Sestiad._

        Day doubles his accustom'd date,
        As loath the Night, incens'd by Fate,
        Should wreck our lovers. Hero's plight;
        Longs for Leander and the night:
        Which ere her thirsty wish recovers,
        She sends for two betrothËd lovers,
        And marries them, that, with their crew,
        Their sports, and ceremonies due,
        She covertly might celebrate,
        With secret joy her own estate.                               10
        She makes a feast, at which appears
        The wild nymph Teras, that still bears
        An ivory lute, tells ominous tales,
        And sings at solemn festivals.

    Now was bright Hero weary of the day,
    Thought an Olympiad in Leander's stay.
    Sol and the soft-foot Hours hung on his arms,
    And would not let him swim, foreseeing his harms:
    That day Aurora double grace obtain'd
    Of her love Phoebus; she his horses reign'd,
    Set[92] on his golden knee, and, as she list,
    She pull'd him back; and as she pull'd she kiss'd,
    To have him turn to bed: he lov'd her more,
    To see the love Leander Hero bore:                                10
    Examples profit much; ten times in one,
    In persons full of note, good deeds are done.
      Day was so long, men walking fell asleep;
    The heavy humours that their eyes did steep
    Made them fear mischiefs. The hard streets were beds
    For covetous churls and for ambitious heads,
    That, spite of Nature, would their business ply:
    All thought they had the falling epilepsy,
    Men grovell'd so upon the smother'd ground;
    And pity did the heart of Heaven confound.                        20
    The Gods, the Graces, and the Muses came
    Down to the Destinies, to stay the frame
    Of the true lovers' deaths, and all world's tears:
    But Death before had stopp'd their cruel ears.
    All the celestials parted mourning then,
    Pierc'd with our human miseries more than men:
    Ah, nothing doth the world with mischief fill,
    But want of feeling one another's ill!
      With their descent the day grew something fair,
    And cast a brighter robe upon the air.                            30
    Hero, to shorten time with merriment,
    For young Alcmane[93] and bright Mya sent,
    Two lovers that had long crav'd marriage-dues
    At Hero's hands: but she did still refuse;
    For lovely Mya was her consort vow'd
    In her maid state, and therefore not allow'd
    To amorous nuptials: yet fair Hero now
    Intended to dispense with her cold vow,
    Since hers was broken, and to marry her:
    The rites would pleasing matter minister                          40
    To her conceits, and shorten tedious day.
    They came; sweet Music usher'd th' odorous way,
    And wanton Air in twenty sweet forms danced
    After her fingers; Beauty and Love advanced
    Their ensigns in the downless rosy faces
    Of youths and maids led after by the Graces.
    For all these Hero made a friendly feast,
    Welcom'd them kindly, did much love protest,
    Winning their hearts with all the means she might.
    That, when her fault should chance t' abide the light             50
    Their loves might cover or extenuate it,
    And high in her worst fate make pity sit.
      She married them; and in the banquet came,
    Borne by the virgins. Hero striv'd to frame
    Her thoughts to mirth: ay me! but hard it is
    To imitate a false and forcËd bliss;
    Ill may a sad mind forge a merry face,
    Nor hath constrainËd laughter any grace.
    Then laid she wine on cares to make them sink:
    Who fears the threats of Fortune, let him drink.[94]              60
      To these quick nuptials enter'd suddenly
    AdmirËd Teras with the ebon thigh;
    A nymph that haunted the green Sestian groves,
    And would consort soft virgins in their loves,
    At gaysome triumphs and on solemn days,
    Singing prophetic elegies and lays,
    And fingering of a silver lute she tied
    With black and purple scarfs by her left side.
    Apollo gave it, and her skill withal,
    And she was term'd his dwarf, she was so small:                   70
    Yet great in virtue, for his beams enclosed
    His virtues in her; never was proposed
    Riddle to her, or augury, strange or new,
    But she resolv'd it; never slight tale flew
    From her charm'd lips without important sense,
    Shown in some grave succeeding consequence.
      This little sylvan, with her songs and tales,
    Gave such estate to feasts and nuptials,
    That though ofttimes she forewent tragedies,
    Yet for her strangeness still she pleas'd their eyes;             80
    And for her smallness they admir'd her so,
    They thought her perfect born, and could not grow.
      All eyes were on her. Hero did command
    An altar decked with sacred state should stand
    At the feast's upper end, close by the bride,
    On which the pretty nymph might sit espied.
    Then all were silent; every one so hears,
    As all their senses climb'd into their ears:
    And first this amorous tale, that fitted well
    Fair Hero and the nuptials, she did tell.                         90

_The Tale of Teras._

    Hymen, that now is god of nuptial rites,
    And crowns with honour Love and his delights,
    Of Athens was a youth, so sweet of face,
    That many thought him of the female race;
    Such quickening brightness did his clear eyes dart,
    Warm went their beams to his beholder's heart,
    In such pure leagues his beauties were combin'd,
    That there your nuptial contracts first were signed;
    For as proportion, white and crimson, meet
    In beauty's mixture, all right clear and sweet,                  100
    The eye responsible, the golden hair,
    And none is held, without the other, fair;
    All spring together, all together fade;
    Such intermix'd affections should invade
    Two perfect lovers; which being yet unseen,
    Their virtues and their comforts copied been
    In beauty's concord, subject to the eye;
    And that, in Hymen, pleased so matchlessly,
    That lovers were esteemed in their full grace,
    Like form and colour mixed in Hymen's face;                      110
    And such sweet concord was thought worthy then
    Of torches, music, feasts, and greatest men:
    So Hymen look'd that even the chastest mind
    He mov'd to join in joys of sacred kind;
    For only now his chin's first down consorted
    His head's rich fleece in golden curls contorted;
    And as he was so loved, he loved so too:
    So should best beauties bound by nuptials, do.
      Bright Eucharis, who was by all men said
    The noblest, fairest, and the richest maid                       120
    Of all th' Athenian damsels, Hymen lov'd
    With such transmission, that his heart remov'd
    From his white breast to hers: but her estate,
    In passing his, was so interminate
    For wealth and honour, that his love durst feed
    On naught but sight and hearing, nor could breed
    Hope of requital, the grand prize of love;
    Nor could he hear or see, but he must prove
    How his rare beauty's music would agree
    With maids in consort; therefore robbËd he                       130
    His chin of those same few first fruits it bore,
    And, clad in such attire as virgins wore,
    He kept them company, and might right well,
    For he did all but Eucharis excel
    In all the fair of beauty! yet he wanted
    Virtue to make his own desires implanted
    In his dear Eucharis; for women never
    Love beauty in their sex, but envy ever.
    His judgment yet, that durst not suit address,
    Nor, past due means, presume of due success,                     140
    Reason gat Fortune in the end to speed
    To his best prayers[95]: but strange it seemed, indeed,
    That Fortune should a chaste affection bless:
    Preferment seldom graceth bashfulness.
    Nor grac'd it Hymen yet; but many a dart,
    And many an amorous thought, enthralled[96] his heart,
    Ere he obtained her; and he sick became,
    Forced to abstain her sight; and then the flame
    Raged in his bosom. O, what grief did fill him!
    Sight made him sick, and want of sight did kill him.             150
    The virgins wonder'd where DiÊtia stay'd,
    For so did Hymen term himself, a maid.
    At length with sickly looks he greeted them:
    Tis strange to see 'gainst what an extreme stream
    A lover strives; poor Hymen look'd so ill,
    That as in merit he increasËd still
    By suffering much, so he in grace decreas'd:
    Women are most won, when men merit least:
    If Merit look not well, Love bids stand by;
    Love's special lesson is to please the eye.                      160
    And Hymen soon recovering all he lost,
    Deceiving still these maids, but himself most,
    His love and he with many virgin dames,
    Noble by birth, noble by beauty's flames,
    Leaving the town with songs and hallow'd lights
    To do great Ceres Eleusina rites
    Of zealous sacrifice, were made a prey
    To barbarous rovers, that in ambush lay,
    And with rude hands enforc'd their shining spoil,
    Far from the darkened city, tired with toil:                     170
    And when the yellow issue of the sky
    Came trooping forth, jealous of cruelty
    To their bright fellows of this under-heaven,
    Into a double night they saw them driven,--
    A horrid cave, the thieves' black mansion;
    Where, weary of the journey they had gone,
    Their last night's watch, and drunk with their sweet gains,
    Dull Morpheus enter'd, laden with silken chains,
    Stronger than iron, and bound the swelling veins
    And tirËd senses of these lawless swains.                        180
    But when the virgin lights thus dimly burn'd,
    O, what a hell was heaven in! how they mourn'd
    And wrung their hands, and wound their gentle forms
    Into the shapes of sorrow! golden storms
    Fell from their eyes; as when the sun appears,
    And yet it rains, so show'd their eyes their tears:
    And, as when funeral dames watch a dead corse,
    Weeping about it, telling with remorse
    What pains he felt, how long in pain he lay,
    How little food he ate, what he would say;                       190
    And then mix mournful tales of other's deaths,
    Smothering themselves in clouds of their own breaths;
    At length, one cheering other, call for wine;
    The golden bowl drinks tears out of their eyne,
    As they drink wine from it; and round it goes,
    Each helping other to relieve their woes;
    So cast these virgins' beauties mutual rays,
    One lights another, face the face displays;
    Lips by reflection kissed, and hands hands shook,
    Even by the whiteness each of other took.                        200
      But Hymen now used friendly Morpheus' aid,
    Slew every thief, and rescued every maid:
    And now did his enamour'd passion take
    Heart from his hearty deed, whose worth did make
    His hope of bounteous Eucharis more strong;
    And now came Love with Proteus, who had long
    Juggled the little god with prayers and gifts,
    Ran through all shapes and varied all his shifts,
    To win Love's stay with him, and make him love him.
    And when he saw no strength of sleight could move him,
    To make him love or stay, he nimbly turned                       211
    Into Love's self, he so extremely burned.
    And thus came Love, with Proteus and his power,
    T' encounter Eucharis: first, like the flower
    That Juno's milk did spring,[97] the silver lily,
    He fell on Hymen's hand, who straight did spy
    The bounteous godhead, and with wondrous joy
    Offer'd it Eucharis. She, wonderous coy,
    Drew back her hand: the subtle flower did woo it,
    And, drawing it near, mixed so you could not know it:            220
    As two clear tapers mix in one their light,
    So did the lily and the hand their white.
    She viewed it; and her view the form bestows
    Amongst her spirits; for, as colour flows
    From superficies of each thing we see,
    Even so with colours forms emitted be;
    And where Love's form is, Love is; Love is form:
    He entered at the eye; his sacred storm
    Rose from the hand, Love's sweetest instrument:
    It stirred her blood's sea so, that high it went,                230
    And beat in bashful waves 'gainst the white shore
    Of her divided cheeks; it raged the more,
    Because the tide went 'gainst the haughty wind
    Of her estate and birth: and, as we find,
    In fainting ebbs, the flowery Zephyr hurls
    The green-haired Hellespont, broke in silver curls,
    'Gainst Hero's tower; but in his blast's retreat,
    The waves obeying him, they after beat,
    Leaving the chalky shore a great way pale,
    Then moist it freshly with another gale;                         240
    So ebbed and flowed the blood[98] in Eucharis' face,
    Coyness and Love strived which had greatest grace;
    Virginity did fight on Coyness' side,
    Fear of her parent's frowns and female pride
    Loathing the lower place, more than it loves
    The high contents desert and virtue moves.
    With Love fought Hymen's beauty and his valure,[99]
    Which scarce could so much favour yet allure
    To come to strike, but fameless idle stood:
    Action is fiery valour's sovereign good.                         250
    But Love, once entered, wished no greater aid
    Than he could find within; thought thought betray'd;
    The bribed, but incorrupted, garrison
    Sung "Io Hymen;" there those songs begun,
    And Love was grown so rich with such a gain,
    And wanton with the ease of his free reign,
    That he would turn into her roughest frowns
    To turn them out; and thus he Hymen crowns
    King of his thoughts, man's greatest empery:
    This was his first brave step to deity.                          260
      Home to the mourning city they repair,
    With news as wholesome as the morning air,
    To the sad parents of each savËd maid:
    But Hymen and his Eucharis had laid
    This plat[100] to make the flame of their delight
    Round as the moon at full, and full as bright.
      Because the parents of chaste Eucharis
    Exceeding Hymen's so, might cross their bliss;
    And as the world rewards deserts, that law
    Cannot assist with force; so when they saw                       270
    Their daughter safe, take vantage of their own,
    Praise Hymen's valour much, nothing bestown;
    Hymen must leave the virgins in a grove
    Far off from Athens, and go first to prove,
    If to restore them all with fame and life,
    He should enjoy his dearest as his wife.
    This told to all the maids, the most agree:
    The riper sort, knowing what 'tis to be
    The first mouth of a news so far derived,
    And that to hear and bear news brave folks lived.                280
    As being a carriage special hard to bear
    Occurrents, these occurrents being so dear,
    They did with grace protest, they were content
    T' accost their friends with all their compliment,
    For Hymen's good; but to incur their harm,
    There he must pardon them. This wit went warm
    To Adolesche's[101] brain, a nymph born high,
    Made all of voice and fire, that upwards fly:
    Her heart and all her forces' nether train
    Climb'd to her tongue, and thither fell her brain,               290
    Since it could go no higher; and it must go;
    All powers she had, even her tongue, did so:
    In spirit and quickness she much joy did take,
    And loved her tongue, only for quickness' sake;
    And she would haste and tell. The rest all stay:
    Hymen goes one, the nymph another way;
    And what became of her I'll tell at last:
    Yet take her visage now;--moist-lipped, long-faced,
    Thin like an iron wedge, so sharp and tart,
    As 'twere of purpose made to cleave Love's heart:                300
    Well were this lovely beauty rid of her.
    And Hymen did at Athens now prefer
    His welcome suit, which he with joy aspired:
    A hundred princely youths with him retired
    To fetch the nymphs; chariots and music went;
    And home they came: heaven with applauses rent.
    The nuptials straight proceed, whiles all the town,
    Fresh in their joys, might do them most renown.
    First, gold-locked Hymen did to church repair,
    Like a quick offering burned in flames of hair;                  310
    And after, with a virgin firmament
    The godhead-proving bride attended went
    Before them all: she looked in her command,
    As if form-giving Cypria's silver hand
    Gripped all their beauties, and crushed out one flame;
    She blushed to see how beauty overcame
    The thoughts of all men. Next, before her went
    Five lovely children, decked with ornament
    Of her sweet colours, bearing torches by;
    For light was held a happy augury                                320
    Of generation, whose efficient right
    Is nothing else but to produce to light.
    The odd disparent number they did choose,
    To show the union married loves should use,
    Since in two equal parts it will not sever,
    But the midst holds one to rejoin it ever,
    As common to both parts: men therefore deem
    That equal number gods do not esteem,
    Being authors of sweet peace and unity,
    But pleasing to th' infernal empery,                             330
    Under whose ensigns Wars and Discords fight,
    Since an even number you may disunite
    In two parts equal, naught in middle left
    To reunite each part from other reft;
    And five they hold in most especial prize,[102]
    Since 'tis the first odd number that doth rise
    From the two foremost numbers' unity,
    That odd and even are; which are two and three;
    For one no number is; but thence doth flow
    The powerful race of number. Next, did go                        340
    A noble matron, that did spinning bear
    A huswife's rock and spindle, and did wear
    A wether's skin, with all the snowy fleece,
    To intimate that even the daintiest piece
    And noblest-born dame should industrious be:
    That which does good disgraceth no degree.
      And now to Juno's temple they are come,
    Where her grave priest stood in the marriage-room:
    On his right arm did hang a scarlet veil,
    And from his shoulders to the ground did trail,                  350
    On either side, ribands of white and blue:
    With the red veil he hid the bashful hue
    Of the chaste bride, to show the modest shame,
    In coupling with a man, should grace a dame.
    Then took he the disparent silks, and tied
    The lovers by the waists, and side to side,
    In token that thereafter they must bind
    In one self-sacred knot each other's mind.
    Before them on an altar he presented
    Both fire and water, which was first invented,                   360
    Since to ingenerate every human creature
    And every other birth produc'd by Nature,
    Moisture and heat must mix; so man and wife
    For human race must join in nuptial life.
    Then one of Juno's birds, the painted jay,
    He sacrific'd and took the gall away;
    All which he did behind the altar throw,
    In sign no bitterness of hate should grow,
    'Twixt married loves, nor any least disdain.
    Nothing they spake, for 'twas esteem'd too plain                 370
    For the most silken mildness of a maid,
    To let a public audience hear it said,
    She boldly took the man; and so respected
    Was bashfulness in Athens, it erected
    To chaste Agneia,[103] which is Shamefacedness,
    A sacred temple, holding her a goddess.
    And now to feasts, masks, and triumphant shows,
    The shining troops returned, even till earth-throes
    Brought forth with joy the thickest part of night,
    When the sweet nuptial song, that used to cite                   380
    All to their rest, was by Phemonˆe[104] sung,
    First Delphian prophetess, whose graces sprung
    Out of the Muses' well: she sung before
    The bride into her chamber; at which door
    A matron and a torch-bearer did stand:
    A painted box of confits[105] in her hand
    The matron held, and so did other some[106]
    That compassed round the honour'd nuptial room.
    The custom was, that every maid did wear,
    During her maidenhead, a silken sphere                           390
    About her waist, above her inmost weed,
    Knit with Minerva's knot, and that was freed
    By the fair bridegroom on the marriage-night,
    With many ceremonies of delight:
    And yet eternized Hymen's tender bride,
    To suffer it dissolved so, sweetly cried.
    The maids that heard, so loved and did adore her,
    They wished with all their hearts to suffer for her.
    So had the matrons, that with confits stood
    About the chamber, such affectionate blood,                      400
    And so true feeling of her harmless pains,
    That every one a shower of confits rains;
    For which the bride-youths scrambling on the ground,
    In noise of that sweet hail her[107] cries were drown'd.
    And thus blest Hymen joyed his gracious bride,
    And for his joy was after deified.
    The saffron mirror by which Phoebus' love,
    Green Tellus, decks her, now he held above
    The cloudy mountains: and the noble maid,
    Sharp-visaged Adolesche, that was stray'd                        410
    Out of her way, in hasting with her news,
    Not till this[108] hour th' Athenian turrets views;
    And now brought home by guides, she heard by all,
    That her long kept occurrents would be stale,
    And how fair Hymen's honours did excel
    For those rare news which she came short to tell.
    To hear her dear tongue robbed of such a joy,
    Made the well-spoken nymph take such a toy,[109]
    That down she sunk: when lightning from above
    Shrunk her lean body, and, for mere free love,                   420
    Turn'd her into the pied-plum'd Psittacus,
    That now the Parrot is surnam'd by us,
    Who still with counterfeit confusion prates
    Naught but news common to the common'st mates.--
    This told, strange Teras touch'd her lute, and sung
    This ditty, that the torchy evening sprung.

_Epithalamion Teratos._

    Come, come, dear Night! Love's mart of kisses,
      Sweet close to his ambitious line,
    The fruitful summer of his blisses!
      Love's glory doth in darkness shine.                           430
    O come, soft rest of cares! come, Night!
      Come, naked Virtue's only tire,
    The reapËd harvest of the light,
      Bound up in sheaves of sacred fire!
                Love calls to war;
                  Sighs his alarms,
                Lips his swords are,
                  The field his arms.

    Come, Night, and lay thy velvet hand
      On glorious Day's outfacing face;                              440
    And all thy crownËd flames command,
      For torches to our nuptial grace!
                Love calls to war;
                  Sighs his alarms,
                Lips his swords are,
                  The field his arms.

    No need have we of factious Day,
      To cast, in envy of thy peace,
    Her balls of discord in thy way:
      Here Beauty's day doth never cease;                            450
    Day is abstracted here,
    And varied in a triple sphere.
    Hero, Alcmane, Mya, so outshine thee,
    Ere thou come here, let Thetis thrice refine thee.
            Love calls to war;
              Sighs his alarms,
            Lips his swords are,
              The field his arms.

            The evening star I see:
              Rise, youths! the evening star                         460
              Helps Love to summon war;
            Both now embracing be.
    Rise, youths! Love's rite claims more than banquets; rise!
    Now the bright marigolds, that deck the skies,
    Phoebus' celestial flowers, that, contrary
    To his flowers here, ope when he shuts his eye,
    And shuts when he doth open, crown your sports:
    Now Love in Night, and Night in Love exhorts
    Courtship and dances: all your parts employ,
    And suit Night's rich expansure with your joy.                   470
    Love paints his longings in sweet virgins' eyes:
    Rise, youths! Love's rite claims more than banquets; rise!

      Rise, virgins! let fair nuptial loves enfold
    Your fruitless breasts: the maidenheads[110] ye hold
    Are not your own alone, but parted are;
    Part in disposing them your parents share,
    And that a third part is; so must ye save
    Your loves a third, and you your thirds must have.
    Love paints his longings in sweet virgins' eyes:
    Rise, youths! Love's rite claims more than banquets; rise!       480

      Herewith the amorous spirit, that was so kind
    To Teras' hair, and comb'd it down with wind,
    Still as it, comet-like, brake from her brain,
    Would needs have Teras gone, and did refrain
    To blow it down: which, staring[111] up, dismay'd
    The timorous feast; and she no longer stay'd;
    But, bowing to the bridegroom and the bride,
    Did, like a shooting exhalation, glide
    Out of their sights: the turning of her back
    Made them all shriek, it look'd so ghastly black.                490
    O hapless Hero! that most hapless cloud
    Thy soon-succeeding tragedy foreshow'd.
    Thus all the nuptial crew to joys depart;
    But much-wronged[112] Hero stood Hell's blackest dart:
    Whose wound because I grieve so to display,
    I use digressions thus t' increase the day.

FOOTNOTES:

[92] Some modern editors read "sat."

[93] Singer suggested "Alcmaeon."

[94] "Chapman has a passage very similar to this in his _Widow's Tears_,
Act iv.:--

    'Wine is ordained to raise such hearts as sink:
    Whom woful stars distemper let him drink.'"

--_Broughton._

[95] "Old eds. 'prayes,' 'praies,' 'preies,' and 'pryes.'"--_Dyce._

[96] Dyce reads "enthrill'd" (a word that I do not remember to have
seen).

[97] Did make to spring. Cf. Fourth Sestiad, l. 169.

[98] So the Isham copy. All other editions omit the words "the blood."

[99] "Valure" is frequently found as a form of "value;" but I suspect,
with Dyce, that it is here put (_metri causa_) for "valour."

[100] Plot.

[101] Gr. [Greek: adoleschÍs].

[102] Some eds. "price."

[103] Gr. [Greek: hagneia]

[104] Singer gives a reference to Pausan, x. 5.--Old eds. "Phemonor" and
"Phemoner."

[105] Comfits.

[106] "Other some" is a not uncommon form of expression. See Halliwell's
_Dict. of Archaic and Provincial Words_.

[107] Old eds. "their."

[108] Old eds. "his."

[109] A sudden pettishness or freak of fancy. Cf. _Two Noble Kinsmen_:--

        "The hot horse hot as fire
    _Took toy_ at this."

[110] Former editors have not noticed that Chapman is here closely
imitating Catullus' _Carmen Nuptiale_--

    "Virginitas non tota tua est: ex parte parentum est:
    Tertia pars patri data, pars data tertia matri,
    Tertia sola tua est: noli pugnare duobus,
    Qui genero sua jura simul cum dote dederunt."

[111] Some eds. "starting." Cf. _Julius CÊsar_, iv. 3, ll. 278-9--

    "Art thou some god, some angel, or some devil,
    That makest my blood cold and my hair to _stare_?"

[112] "Old eds. 'much-rong,' 'much rongd,' and 'much-wrong'd.'"--_Dyce_
(who reads "much-wrung").

THE SIXTH SESTIAD.

_The Argument of the Sixth Sestiad._

        Leucote flies to all the Winds,
        And from the Fates their outrage blinds,[113]
        That Hero and her love may meet.
        Leander, with Love's complete fleet
        Manned in himself, puts forth to seas;
        When straight the ruthless Destinies,
        With, AtÈ, stir the winds to war
        Upon the Hellespont: their jar
        Drowns poor Leander. Hero's eyes,
        Wet witnesses of his surprise,                                10
        Her torch blown out, grief casts her down
        Upon her love, and both doth drown:
        In whose just ruth the god of seas
        Transforms them to th' Acanthides.

    No longer could the Day nor Destinies
    Delay the Night, who now did frowning rise
    Into her throne; and at her humorous breasts
    Visions and Dreams lay sucking: all men's rests
    Fell like the mists of death upon their eyes,
    Day's too-long darts so kill'd their faculties.
    The Winds yet, like the flowers, to cease began;
    For bright Leucote, Venus' whitest swan,
    That held sweet Hero dear, spread her fair wings,
    Like to a field of snow, and message brings                       10
    From Venus to the Fates, t'entreat them lay
    Their charge upon the Winds their rage to stay,
    That the stern battle of the seas might cease,
    And guard Leander to his love in peace.
    The Fates consent;--ay me, dissembling Fates!
    They showed their favours to conceal their hates,
    And draw Leander on, lest seas too high
    Should stay his too obsequious destiny:
    Who[114] like a fleering slavish parasite,
    In warping profit or a traitorous sleight,                        20
    Hoops round his rotten body with devotes,
    And pricks his descant face full of false notes;
    Praising with open throat, and oaths as foul
    As his false heart, the beauty of an owl;
    Kissing his skipping hand with charmËd skips,
    That cannot leave, but leaps upon his lips
    Like a cock-sparrow, or a shameless quean
    Sharp at a red-lipp'd youth, and naught doth mean
    Of all his antic shows, but doth repair
    More tender fawns,[115] and takes a scatter'd hair                30
    From his tame subject's shoulder; whips and calls
    For everything he lacks; creeps 'gainst the walls
    With backward humbless, to give needless way:
    Thus his false fate did with Leander play.
      First to black Eurus flies the white Leucote
    (Born 'mongst the negroes in the Levant sea,
    On whose curl'd head[s] the glowing sun doth rise),
    And shows the sovereign will of Destinies,
    To have him cease his blasts; and down he lies.
    Next, to the fenny Notus course she holds,                        40
    And found him leaning, with his arms in folds,
    Upon a rock, his white hair full of showers;
    And him she chargeth by the fatal powers,
    To hold in his wet cheeks his cloudy voice.
    To Zephyr then that doth in flowers rejoice:
    To snake-foot Boreas next she did remove,
    And found him tossing of his ravished love,[116]
    To heat his frosty bosom hid in snow;
    Who with Leucote's sight did cease to blow.
    Thus all were still to Hero's heart's desire;                     50
    Who with all speed did consecrate a fire
    Of flaming gums and comfortable spice,
    To light her torch, which in such curious price
    She held, being object to Leander's sight,
    That naught but fires perfumed must give it light.
    She loved it so, she griev'd to see it burn,
    Since it would waste, and soon to ashes turn:
    Yet, if it burned not, 'twere not worth her eyes;
    What made it nothing, gave it all the prize.
    Sweet torch, true glass of our society!                           60
    What man does good, but he consumes thereby?
    But thou wert loved for good, held high, given show;
    Poor virtue loathed for good, obscured, held low:
    Do good, be pined,--be deedless good, disgraced;
    Unless we feed on men, we let them fast.
    Yet Hero with these thoughts her torch did spend:
    When bees make wax, Nature doth not intend
    It should be made a torch; but we, that know
    The proper virtue of it, make it so,
    And, when 'tis made, we light it: nor did Nature                  70
    Propose one life to maids; but each such creature
    Makes by her soul the best of her free[117] state,
    Which without love is rude, disconsolate,
    And wants love's fire to make it mild and bright,
    Till when, maids are but torches wanting light.
    Thus 'gainst our grief, not cause of grief, we fight:
    The right of naught is glean'd, but the delight.
    Up went she: but to tell how she descended,
    Would God she were dead, or my verse ended!
    She was the rule of wishes, sum, and end,                         80
    For all the parts that did on love depend:
    Yet cast the torch his brightness further forth;
    But what shines nearest best, holds truest worth.
    Leander did not through such tempests swim
    To kiss the torch, although it lighted him:
    But all his powers in her desires awakËd,
    Her love and virtues clothed him richly naked.
    Men kiss but fire that only shows pursue;
    Her torch and Hero, figure show and virtue.
      Now at opposed Abydos naught was heard                          90
    But bleating flocks, and many a bellowing herd,
    Slain for the nuptials; cracks of falling woods;
    Blows of broad axes; pourings out of floods.
    The guilty Hellespont was mix'd and stained
    With bloody torrents[118] that the shambles rained;
    Not arguments of feast, but shows that bled,
    Foretelling that red night that followËd.
    More blood was spilt, more honours were addrest,
    Than could have gracËd any happy feast;
    Rich banquets, triumphs, every pomp employs                      100
    His sumptuous hand; no miser's nuptial joys.
    Air felt continual thunder with the noise
    Made in the general marriage-violence;
    And no man knew the cause of this expense,
    But the two hapless lords, Leander's sire,
    And poor Leander, poorest where the fire
    Of credulous love made him most rich surmis'd:
    As short was he of that himself[119] he prized,
    As is an empty gallant full of form,
    That thinks each look an act, each drop a storm,                 110
    That falls from his brave breathings; most brought up
    In our metropolis, and hath his cup
    Brought after him to feasts; and much palm bears
    For his rare judgment in th' attire he wears;
    Hath seen the hot Low-Countries, not their heat,
    Observes their rampires and their buildings yet;
    And, for your sweet discourse with mouths, is heard
    Giving instructions with his very beard;
    Hath gone with an ambassador, and been
    A great man's mate in travelling, even to Rhene;                 120
    And then puts all his worth in such a face
    As he saw brave men make, and strives for grace
    To get his news forth: as when you descry
    A ship, with all her sail contends to fly
    Out of the narrow Thames with winds unapt,
    Now crosseth here, then there, then this way rapt,
    And then hath one point reach'd, then alters all,
    And to another crookËd reach doth fall
    Of half a bird-bolt's[120] shoot, keeping more coil
    Than if she danc'd upon the ocean's toil;                        130
    So serious is his trifling company,
    In all his swelling ship of vacantry
    And so short of himself in his high thought
    Was our Leander in his fortunes brought,
    And in his fort of love that he thought won;
    But otherwise he scorns comparison.
      O sweet Leander, thy large worth I hide
    In a short grave! ill-favour'd storms must chide
    Thy sacred favour;[121] I in floods of ink
    Must drown thy graces, which white papers drink,                 140
    Even as thy beauties did the foul black seas;
    I must describe the hell of thy decease,
    That heaven did merit: yet I needs must see
    Our painted fools and cockhorse peasantry
    Still, still usurp, with long lives, loves, and lust,
    The seats of Virtue, cutting short as dust
    Her dear-bought issue: ill to worse converts,
    And tramples in the blood of all deserts.
      Night close and silent now goes fast before
    The captains and the soldiers to the shore,                      150
    On whom attended the appointed fleet
    At Sestos' bay, that should Leander meet,
    Who feigned he in another ship would pass:
    Which must not be, for no one mean there was
    To get his love home, but the course he took.
    Forth did his beauty for his beauty look,
    And saw her through her torch, as you behold
    Sometimes within the sun a face of gold,
    Formed in strong thoughts, by that tradition's force
    That says a god sits there and guides his course.                160
    His sister was with him; to whom he show'd
    His guide by sea, and said, "Oft have you view'd
    In one heaven many stars, but never yet
    In one star many heavens till now were met.
    See, lovely sister! see, now Hero shines,
    No heaven but her appears; each star repines,
    And all are clad in clouds, as if they mourned
    To be by influence of earth out-burned.
    Yet doth she shine, and teacheth Virtue's train
    Still to be constant in hell's blackest reign,                   170
    Though even the gods themselves do so entreat them
    As they did hate, and earth as she would eat them."
      Off went his silken robe, and in he leapt,
    Whom the kind waves so licorously cleapt,[122]
    Thickening for haste, one in another, so,
    To kiss his skin, that he might almost go
    To Hero's tower, had that kind minute lasted.
    But now the cruel Fates with AtÈ hasted
    To all the winds, and made them battle fight
    Upon the Hellespont, for either's right                          180
    Pretended to the windy monarchy;
    And forth they brake, the seas mixed with the sky,
    And tossed distressed Leander, being in hell,
    As high as heaven: bliss not in height doth dwell.
    The Destinies sate dancing on the waves,
    To see the glorious Winds with mutual braves
    Consume each other: O, true glass, to see
    How ruinous ambitious statists be
    To their own glories! Poor Leander cried
    For help to sea-born Venus she denied;                           190
    To Boreas, that, for his AtthÊa's[123] sake
    He would some pity on his Hero take,
    And for his own love's sake, on his desires;
    But Glory never blows cold Pity's fires.
    Then call'd he Neptune, who, through all the noise,
    Knew with affright his wreck'd Leander's voice,
    And up he rose; for haste his forehead hit
    'Gainst heaven's hard crystal; his proud waves he smit
    With his forked sceptre, that could not obey;
    Much greater powers than Neptune's gave them sway.               200
    They loved Leander so, in groans they brake
    When they came near him; and such space did take
    'Twixt one another, loath to issue on,
    That in their shallow furrows earth was shown,
    And the poor lover took a little breath:
    But the curst Fates sate spinning of his death
    On every wave, and with the servile Winds
    Tumbled them on him. And now Hero finds,
    By that she felt, her dear Leander's state:
    She wept, and prayed for him to every Fate;                      210
    And every Wind that whipped her with her hair
    About the face, she kissed and spake it fair,
    Kneeled to it, gave it drink out of her eyes
    To quench his thirst: but still their cruelties
    Even her poor torch envied, and rudely beat
    The baiting[124] flame from that dear food it eat;
    Dear, for it nourish'd her Leander's life;
    Which with her robe she rescued from their strife;
    But silk too soft was such hard hearts to break;
    And she, dear soul, even as her silk, faint, weak,               220
    Could not preserve it; out, O, out it went!
    Leander still call'd Neptune, that now rent
    His brackish curls, and tore his wrinkled face,
    Where tears in billows did each other chase;
    And, burst with ruth, he hurl'd his marble mace
    At the stern Fates: it wounded Lachesis
    That drew Leander's thread, and could not miss
    The thread itself, as it her hand did hit,
    But smote it full, and quite did sunder it.
    The more kind Neptune raged, the more he razed                   230
    His love's life's fort, and kill'd as he embraced:
    Anger doth still his own mishap increase;
    If any comfort live, it is in peace.
    O thievish Fates, to let blood, flesh, and sense,
    Build two fair temples for their excellence,
    To robe it with a poisoned influence!
    Though souls' gifts starve, the bodies are held dear
    In ugliest things; sense-sport preserves a bear:
    But here naught serves our turns: O heaven and earth,
    How most-most wretched is our human birth!                       240
    And now did all the tyrannous crew depart,
    Knowing there was a storm in Hero's heart,
    Greater than they could make, and scorn'd their smart.
    She bow'd herself so low out of her tower,
    That wonder 'twas she fell not ere her hour,
    With searching the lamenting waves for him:
    Like a poor snail, her gentle supple limb
    Hung on her turret's top, so most downright,
    As she would dive beneath the darkness quite,
    To find her jewel;--jewel!--her Leander,                         250
    A name of all earth's jewels pleas'd not her
    Like his dear name: "Leander, still my choice,
    Come naught but my Leander! O my voice,
    Turn to Leander! henceforth be all sounds,
    Accents and phrases, that show all griefs' wounds,
    Analyzed in Leander! O black change!
    Trumpets, do you, with thunder of your clange,
    Drive out this change's horror! My voice faints:
    Where all joy was, now shriek out all complaints!"
    Thus cried she; for her mixËd soul could tell                    260
    Her love was dead: and when the Morning fell
    Prostrate upon the weeping earth for woe,
    Blushes, that bled out of her cheeks, did show
    Leander brought by Neptune, bruis'd and torn
    With cities' ruins he to rocks had worn,
    To filthy usuring rocks, that would have blood,
    Though they could get of him no other good.
    She saw him, and the sight was much-much more
    Than might have serv'd to kill her: should her store
    Of giant sorrows speak?--Burst,--die,--bleed,                    270
    And leave poor plaints to us that shall succeed.
    She fell on her love's bosom, hugged it fast,
    And with Leander's name she breathed her last.
      Neptune for pity in his arms did take them,
    Flung them into the air, and did awake them
    Like two sweet birds, surnam'd th' Acanthides,
    Which we call Thistle-warps, that near no seas
    Dare ever come, but still in couples fly,
    And feed on thistle-tops, to testify
    The hardness of their first life in their last;                  280
    The first, in thorns of love, that sorrows past:
    And so most beautiful their colours show,
    As none (so little) like them; her sad brow
    A sable velvet feather covers quite,
    Even like the forehead-cloth that, in the night,
    Or when they sorrow, ladies use[125] to wear:
    Their wings, blue, red, and yellow, mixed appear:
    Colours that, as we construe colours, paint
    Their states to life;--the yellow shows their saint,
    The dainty[126] Venus, left them; blue their truth;              290
    The red and black, ensigns of death and ruth.
    And this true honour from their love-death sprung,--
    They were the first that ever poet sung.[127]

FOOTNOTES:

[113] It should be _binds_: _i.e._, "Leucote flies to the several winds,
and, commissioned by the Fates, commands them to restrain their
violence." _Broughton._

[114] The next few lines are in Chapman's obscurest manner. "Devotes,"
in l. 21, means, I suppose, "tokens of devotion to his patron."

[115] Cunningham says, "I cannot perceive the meaning of 'doth repair
more tender fawns.'" "Fawns" is equivalent to "fawnings;" and the
meaning seems to be, "applies himself to softer blandishments."

[116] Orithyia.--The story of the rape of Orithyia is told in a
magnificent passage of Mr. Swinburne's _Erectheus_.

[117] So the Isham copy. Later eds. "true."

[118] So the Isham copy. Later eds. "torrent."

[119] Some eds. "himselfe surpris'd." Dyce gives "himself so priz'd."

[120] A short arrow blunted at the end; it killed birds without piercing
them.

[121] Countenance.

[122] Clipt, embraced.

[123] From Gr. [Greek: Atthis] (a woman of Attica, _i.e._, Orithyia).

[124] "The flame taking _bait_ (refreshment), feeding." Dyce. (Old eds.
"bating.")

[125] Old eds. "vsde."

[126] Isham copy "deuil."

[127] In Chapman's day the work of the grammarian Musaeus was supposed
to be the genuine production of the fabulous son of Eumolpus.

OVID'S ELEGIES.

All the old editions of Marlowe's translation of the _Amores_ are
undated, and bear the imprint Middleburgh (in various spellings). It is
probable that the copy which Mr. Charles Edmonds discovered at Lamport
Hall, Northamptonshire (the seat of Sir Charles Isham, Bart.), is the
earliest of extant editions. The title-page of this edition
is--_Epigrammes and Elegies By I. D. and C. M. At Middleborugh_ 12mo.
After the title-page come the _Epigrammata_, which are signed at the end
"I. D." (the initials of Sir John Davies). Following the _Epigrammata_
is a copy of verses headed _Ignoto_, and then comes a second
title-page--_Certaine of Ovid's Elegies. By C. Marlowe. At
Middleborough_. In his preface to a facsimile reprint of the little
volume, Mr. Edmonds states his conviction that this edition,
notwithstanding the imprint Middleborough, was issued at London from the
press of W. Jaggard, who in 1599 printed the _Passionate Pilgrime_. He
grounds his opinion not only on the character of the type and of the
misprints, but on the fact that there would be no need for the book to
be printed abroad in the first instance. It was not (he thinks) until
after June 1599--when (with other books) it was condemned by Archbishop
Whitgift to be burnt--that recourse was had to the expedient of
reprinting it at Middleburgh. In the notes I refer to this edition as
Isham copy.

The next edition, which has the same title-pages as the Isham
copy--_Epigrammes and Elegies by I. D. and C. M. at Middleborugh_,
12mo--was certainly, to judge from its general appearance, printed
abroad, and by foreigners. The text agrees in the main with that of the
Isham copy, but the corruptions are more numerous. I have followed Dyce
in referring to this edition as Ed. A.

The Isham copy and Ed. A contain only a portion of the Elegies. The
complete translation appeared in _All Ovid's Elegies: 3 Bookes. By C. M.
Epigrams by I. D. At Middleborugh_, 12mo. (Ed. B); and in another
edition with the same title-page (Ed. C). The readings of Ed. C. I have
occasionally borrowed from Dyce. It is supposed that the book "continued
to be printed with Middleburgh on the title, and without date, as late
as 1640" (Hazlitt).

OVID'S ELEGIES.

P. OVIDII NASONIS AMORUM.

LIBER PRIMUS.

ELEGIA I.

Quemadmodum a Cupidine, pro bellis amoris scribere coactus sit.

    _We which were Ovid's five books, now are three,
    For these before the rest preferreth he:
    If reading five thou plain'st of tediousness,
    Two ta'en away, thy[128] labour will be less;_

    With Muse prepared,[129] I meant to sing of arms,
    Choosing a subject fit for fierce alarms:
    Both verses were alike till Love (men say)
    Began to smile and took one foot away.
    Rash boy, who gave thee power to change a line?
    We are the Muses' prophets, none of thine.
    What, if thy mother take Diana's[130] bow,
    Shall Dian fan when love begins to glow?
    In woody groves is't meet that Ceres reign,
    And quiver-bearing Dian till the plain?                           10
    Who'll set the fair-tressed Sun in battle-ray
    While Mars doth take the Aonian harp to play?
    Great are thy kingdoms, over-strong and large,
    Ambitious imp, why seek'st thou further charge?
    Are all things thine? the Muses' Tempe thine?
    Then scarce can Phoebus say, "This harp is mine."
    When[131] in this work's first verse I trod aloft,
    Love slaked my muse, and made my numbers soft:
    I have no mistress nor no favourite,
    Being fittest matter for a wanton wit.                            20
    Thus I complained, but Love unlocked his quiver,
    Took out the shaft, ordained my heart to shiver,
    And bent his sinewy bow upon his knee,
    Saying, "Poet, here's a work beseeming thee."
    O, woe is me! he never shoots but hits,
    I burn, love in my idle bosom sits:
    Let my first verse be six, my last five feet:
    Farewell stern war, for blunter poets meet!
    Elegian muse, that warblest amorous lays,
    Girt my shine[132] brow with seabank myrtle sprays.[133]          30

FOOTNOTES:

[128] So the Isham copy. Ed. A. "the."

[129] Isham copy and ed. A. "vpreard, I meane."

[130] The original has--

    "Quid? si prÊripiat flavÊ Venus arma _MinervÊ_
      Ventilet accensas flavÊ _Minerva_ comas."

[131]

    "Cum bene surrexit versu nova pagina, primo!
          At tenuat nervos proximus ille meos."

[132] Sheen.

[133] Dyce's correction for "praise" of the old eds.

ELEGIA II.

Quod primo amore correptus, in triumphum duci se a Cupidine patiatur.

    What makes my bed seem hard seeing it is soft?
    Or why slips down the coverlet so oft?
    Although the nights be long I sleep not tho[134]
    My sides are sore with tumbling to and fro.
    Were love the cause it's like I should descry him,
    Or lies he close and shoots where none can spy him?
    'Twas so; he strook me with a slender dart;
    'Tis cruel Love turmoils my captive heart.
    Yielding or striving[135] do we give him might,
    Let's yield, a burden easily borne is light.                      10
    I saw a brandished fire increase in strength,
    Which being not shak'd, I saw it die at length.
    Young oxen newly yoked are beaten more,
    Than oxen which have drawn the plough before:
    And rough jades' mouths with stubborn bits are torn,
    But managed horses' heads are lightly borne.[136]
    Unwilling lovers, love doth more torment,
    Than such as in their bondage feel content.
    Lo! I confess, I am thy captive I,
    And hold my conquered hands for thee to tie.                      20
    What need'st thou war? I sue to thee for grace:
    With arms to conquer armless men is base.
    Yoke Venus' Doves, put myrtle on thy hair,
    Vulcan will give thee chariots rich and fair:
    The people thee applauding, thou shalt stand,
    Guiding the harmless pigeons with thy hand.
    Young men and women shalt thou lead as thrall,
    So will thy triumph seem magnifical;
    I, lately caught, will have a new-made wound,
    And captive-like be manacled and bound:                           30
    Good meaning, Shame, and such as seek Love's wrack
    Shall follow thee, their hands tied at their back.
    Thee all shall fear, and worship as a king
    Iˆ triumphing shall thy people sing.
    Smooth speeches, Fear and Rage shall by thee ride,
    Which troops have always been on Cupid's side;
    Thou with these soldiers conquer'st gods and men,
    Take these away, where is thine honour then?
    Thy mother shall from heaven applaud this show,
    And on their faces heaps of roses strow,                          40
    With beauty of thy wings, thy fair hair gilded,[137]
    Ride golden Love in chariots richly builded!
    Unless I err, full many shalt thou burn,
    And give wounds infinite at every turn.
    In spite of thee, forth will thine arrows fly,
    A scorching flame burns all the standers by.
    So, having conquered Inde, was Bacchus' hue;
    Thee pompous birds and him two tigers drew;
    Then seeing I grace thy show in following thee,
    Forbear to hurt thyself in spoiling me.                           50
    Behold thy kinsman[138] CÊsar's prosperous bands,
    Who guards the[139] conquered with his conquering hands.

FOOTNOTES:

[134] Then.

[135] So the Isham copy and ed. A. Other eds. "struggling."

[136] "_Frena minus sentit_ quisquis ad arma facit."--Marlowe's line
strongly supports the view that "bear hard" in _Julius CÊsar_ means
"curb, keep a tight rein over" (hence "eye with suspicion"). Cf.
Christopher Clifford's _School of Horsemanship_ (1585):--"But the most
part of horses takes it [a 'wil of his owne'] through the unskilfulnesse
of the rider by _bearing too hard a hand_ upon them," p. 35.

[137] "Our poet's copy of Ovid had 'Tu _penna pulchros gemina_ variante
capillos.'"--_Dyce._ (The true reading "Tu pennas gemma, gemma, variante
capillos.")

[138] Old eds. "kinsmans."

[139] Old eds. "thee."

ELEGIA III.

Ad amicam.

    I ask but right, let her that caught me late,
    Either love, or cause that I may never hate;
    I crave[140] too much--would she but let me love her;
    Jove knows with such-like prayers I daily move her.
    Accept him that shall serve thee all his youth,
    Accept him that shall love with spotless truth.
    If lofty titles cannot make[141] me thine,
    That am descended but of knightly line,
    (Soon may you plough the little land I have;
    I gladly grant my parents given to save;[142])                    10
    Apollo, Bacchus, and the Muses may;
    And Cupid who hath marked me for thy prey;
    My spotless life, which but to gods gives place,
    Naked simplicity, and modest grace.
    I love but one, and her I love change never,
    If men have faith, I'll live with thee for ever.
    The years that fatal Destiny shall give
    I'll live with thee, and die ere thou shalt grieve.
    Be thou the happy subject of my books
    That I may write things worthy thy fair looks.                    20
    By verses, horned Iˆ got her name;
    And she to whom in shape of swan[143] Jove came;
    And she that on a feigned Bull swam to land,
    Griping his false horns with her virgin hand,
    So likewise we will through the world be rung
    And with my name shall thine be always sung.

FOOTNOTES:

[140] Isham copy "aske."

[141] Ed. A. "cause me to be thine."

[142] "Temperat et sumptus parcus uterque parens."

[143] Isham copy and ed. A. "Bull."

ELEGIA IV.[144]

Amicam, qua arte quibusque nutibus in cÊna, presente viro, uti debeat,
admonet.

    Thy husband to a banquet goes with me,
    Pray God it may his latest supper be.
    Shall I sit gazing as a bashful guest,
    While others touch the damsel I love best?
    Wilt lying under him, his bosom clip?
    About thy neck shall he at pleasure skip?
    Marvel not, though the fair bride did incite
    The drunken Centaurs to a sudden fight.
    I am no half horse, nor in woods I dwell,
    Yet scarce my hands from thee contain I well.                     10
    But how thou should'st behave thyself now know,
    Nor let the winds away my warnings blow.
    Before thy husband come, though I not see
    What may be done, yet there before him be.
    Lie with him gently, when his limbs he spread
    Upon the bed; but on my foot first tread.
    View me, my becks, and speaking countenance;
    Take, and return[145] each secret amorous glance.
    Words without voice shall on my eyebrows sit,
    Lines thou shalt read in wine by my hand writ.                    20
    When our lascivious toys come to thy mind,
    Thy rosy cheeks be to thy thumb inclined.
    If aught of me thou speak'st in inward thought,
    Let thy soft finger to thy ear be brought.
    When I, my light, do or say aught that please thee,
    Turn round thy gold ring, as it were to ease thee.
    Strike on the board like them that pray for evil,
    When thou dost wish thy husband at the devil.[146]
    What wine he fills thee, wisely will[147] him drink;
    Ask thou the boy, what thou enough dost think.                    30
    When thou hast tasted, I will take the cup,
    And where thou drink'st, on that part I will sup.
    If he gives thee what first himself did taste,
    Even in his face his offered gobbets[148] cast.
    Let not thy neck by his vile arms be prest,
    Nor lean thy soft head on his boisterous breast.
    Thy bosom's roseate buds let him not finger,
    Chiefly on thy lips let not his lips linger
    If thou givest kisses, I shall all disclose,[149]
    Say they are mine, and hands on thee impose.                      40
    Yet this I'll see, but if thy gown aught cover,
    Suspicious fear in all my veins will hover.
    Mingle not thighs, nor to his leg join thine,
    Nor thy soft foot with his hard foot combine.
    I have been wanton, therefore am perplexed,
    And with mistrust of the like measure vexed.
    I and my wench oft under clothes did lurk,
    When pleasure moved us to our sweetest work.
    Do not thou so; but throw thy mantle hence,
    Lest I should think thee guilty of offence.                       50
    Entreat thy husband drink, but do not kiss,
    And while he drinks, to add more do not miss;
    If he lies down with wine and sleep opprest,
    The thing and place shall counsel us the rest.
    When to go homewards we rise all along
    Have care to walk in middle of the throng.
    There will I find thee or be found by thee,
    There touch whatever thou canst touch of me.
    Ay me! I warn what profits some few hours!
    But we must part, when heaven with black night lours.             60
    At night thy husband clips[150] thee: I will weep
    And to the doors sight of thyself [will] keep:
    Then will he kiss thee, and not only kiss,
    But force thee give him my stolen honey-bliss.
    Constrained against thy will give it the peasant,
    Forbear sweet words, and be your sport unpleasant.
    To him I pray it no delight may bring,
    Or if it do, to thee no joy thence spring.
    But, though this night thy fortune be to try it,
    To me to-morrow constantly deny[151] it.                          70

FOOTNOTES:

[144] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[145] So Dyce; old eds. "receive."

[146] "Optabis merito cum mala multa viro."

[147] "Bibat ipse _jubeto_."

[148] So Dyce for "goblets" of the old eds. ("Rejice libatos illius ore
_cibos_.")

[149] "Fiam manifestus adulter."

[150] The original has "Nocte vir _includet_."

[151] "Dedisse nega."

ELEGIA V.

CorinnÊ concubitus.

    In summer's heat, and mid-time of the day,
    To rest my limbs upon a bed I lay;
    One window shut, the other open stood,
    Which gave such light as twinkles in a wood,
    Like twilight glimpse at setting of the sun,
    Or night being past, and yet not day begun;
    Such light to shamefaced maidens must be shown
    Where they may sport, and seem to be unknown:
    Then came Corinna in a long loose gown,
    Her white neck hid with tresses hanging down,                     10
    Resembling fair Semiramis going to bed,
    Or Lais of a thousand wooers sped.[152]
    I snatched her gown: being thin, the harm was small,
    Yet strived she to be covered therewithal;
    And striving thus, as one that would be cast,
    Betrayed herself, and yielded at the last.
    Stark naked as she stood before mine eye,
    Not one wen in her body could I spy.
    What arms and shoulders did I touch and see!
    How apt her breasts were to be pressed by me!                     20
    How smooth a belly under her waist saw I,
    How large a leg, and what a lusty thigh!
    To leave the rest, all liked me passing well;
    I clinged her naked[153] body, down she fell:
    Judge you the rest; being tired she bade me kiss;
    Jove send me more such afternoons as this!

FOOTNOTES:

[152] Isham copy and ed. A. "spread."

[153] Ed. A. "her faire white body." ("Et _nudam_ pressi corpus ad usque
meum.")

ELEGIA VI.[154]

Ad Janitorem, ut fores sibi aperiat.

    Unworthy porter, bound in chains full sore,
    On movËd hooks set ope the churlish door.
    Little I ask, a little entrance make,
    The gate half-ope my bent side in will take.
    Long love my body to such use make[s] slender,
    And to get out doth like apt members render.
    He shows me how unheard to pass the watch,
    And guides my feet lest, stumbling, falls they catch:
    But in times past I feared vain shades, and night,
    Wondering if any walkËd without light.                            10
    Love, hearing it, laughed with his tender mother,
    And smiling said, "Be thou as bold as other."
    Forthwith love came; no dark night-flying sprite,
    Nor hands prepared to slaughter, me affright.
    Thee fear I too much: only thee I flatter:
    Thy lightning can my life in pieces batter.
    Why enviest me? this hostile den[155] unbar;
    See how the gates with my tears watered are!
    When thou stood'st naked ready to be beat,
    For thee I did thy mistress fair entreat.                         20
    But what entreats for thee sometimes[156] took place,
    (O mischief!) now for me obtain small grace.
    Gratis thou mayest be free; give like for like;
    Night goes away: the door's bar backward strike.
    Strike; so again hard chains shall bind thee never,
    Nor servile water shalt thou drink for ever.
    Hard-hearted Porter, dost and wilt not hear?
    With stiff oak propped the gate doth still appear.
    Such rampired gates besiegËd cities aid;
    In midst of peace why art of arms afraid?                         30
    Exclud'st a lover, how would'st use a foe?
    Strike back the bar, night fast away doth go.
    With arms or armËd men I come not guarded;
    I am alone, were furious love discarded.
    Although I would, I cannot him cashier,
    Before I be divided from my gear.[157]
    See Love with me, wine moderate in my brain,
    And on my hairs a crown of flowers remain.
    Who fears these arms? who will not go to meet them?
    Night runs away; with open entrance greet them.                   40
    Art careless? or is't sleep forbids thee hear,
    Giving the winds my words running in thine ear?
    Well I remember, when I first did hire thee,
    Watching till after midnight did not tire thee.
    But now perchance thy wench with thee doth rest,
    Ah, how thy lot is above my lot blest:
    Though it be so, shut me not out therefore;
    Night goes away: I pray thee ope the door.
    Err we? or do the turnËd hinges sound,
    And opening doors with creaking noise abound?[158]                50
    We err: a strong blast seemed the gates to ope:
    Ay me, how high that gale did lift my hope!
    If Boreas bears[159] Orithyia's rape in mind,
    Come break these deaf doors with thy boisterous wind.
    Silent the city is: night's dewy host[160]
    March fast away: the bar strike from the post.
    Or I more stern than fire or sword will turn,
    And with my brand these gorgeous houses burn.
    Night, love, and wine to all extremes persuade:
    Night, shameless wine, and love are fearless made.                60
    All have I spent: no threats or prayers move thee;
    O harder than the doors thou guard'st I prove thee,
    No pretty wench's keeper may'st thou be,
    The careful prison is more meet for thee.
    Now frosty night her flight begins to take,
    And crowing cocks poor souls to work awake.
    But thou, my crown, from sad hairs ta'en away,
    On this hard threshold till the morning lay.
    That when my mistress there beholds thee cast,
    She may perceive how we the time did waste.                       70
    Whate'er thou art, farewell, be like me pained!
    Careless farewell, with my fault not distained![161]
    And farewell cruel posts, rough threshold's block,
    And doors conjoined with an hard iron lock!

FOOTNOTES:

[154] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[155] Old eds. "dende."

[156] Sometime ("quondam").

[157] "Ante vel a membris dividar ipse meis."

[158] Qy. "rebound?"

[159] Dyce reads, "If, Boreas, bear'st" (_i.e._, "thou bear'st"). But
the change in the old eds. from the second to the third person is not
very harsh.

[160] A picturesque rendering of

              "Vitreoque madentia rore
    Tempora noctis eunt."

[161] "Lente nec admisso turpis amante ... vale." Of course "nec" should
be taken with "admisso."

ELEGIA VII.[162]

Ad pacandam amicam, quam verberaverat.

    Bind fast my hands, they have deservËd chains,
    While rage is absent, take some friend the pains.
    For rage against my wench moved my rash arm,
    My mistress weeps whom my mad hand did harm.
    I might have then my parents dear misused,
    Or holy gods with cruel strokes abused.
    Why, Ajax, master of the seven-fold shield,
    Butchered the flocks he found in spacious field.
    And he who on his mother venged his ire,
    Against the Destinies durst sharp[163] darts require.             10
    Could I therefore her comely tresses tear?
    Yet was she gracËd with her ruffled hair.
    So fair she was, Atalanta she resembled,
    Before whose bow th' Arcadian wild beasts trembled.
    Such Ariadne was, when she bewails,
    Her perjured Theseus' flying vows and sails.
    So, chaste Minerva, did Cassandra fall
    Deflowered[164] except within thy temple wall.
    That I was mad, and barbarous all men cried:
    She nothing said; pale fear her tongue had tied.                  20
    But secretly her looks with checks did trounce me,
    Her tears, she silent, guilty did pronounce me.
    Would of mine arms my shoulders had been scanted:
    Better I could part of myself have wanted.
    To mine own self have I had strength so furious,
    And to myself could I be so injurious?
    Slaughter and mischiefs instruments, no better,
    DeservËd chains these cursed hands shall fetter.
    Punished I am, if I a Roman beat:
    Over my mistress is my right more great?                          30
    Tydides left worst signs[165] of villainy;
    He first a goddess struck: another I.
    Yet he harmed less; whom I professed to love
    I harmed: a foe did Diomede's anger move.
    Go now, thou conqueror, glorious triumphs raise,
    Pay vows to Jove; engirt thy hairs with bays.
    And let the troops which shall thy chariot follow,
    "Iˆ, a strong man conquered this wench," hollow.
    Let the sad captive foremost, with locks spread
    On her white neck, but for hurt cheeks,[166] be led.              40
    Meeter it were her lips were blue with kissing,
    And on her neck a wanton's[167] mark not missing.
    But, though I like a swelling flood was driven,
    And as a prey unto blind anger given,
    Was't not enough the fearful wench to chide?
    Nor thunder, in rough threatenings, haughty pride?
    Nor shamefully her coat pull o'er her crown,
    Which to her waist her girdle still kept down?
    But cruelly her tresses having rent,
    My nails to scratch her lovely cheeks I bent.                     50
    Sighing she stood, her bloodless white looks shewed,
    Like marble from the Parian mountains hewed.
    Her half-dead joints, and trembling limbs I saw,
    Like poplar leaves blown with a stormy flaw.
    Or slender ears, with gentle zephyr shaken,
    Or waters' tops with the warm south-wind taken.
    And down her cheeks, the trickling tears did flow,
    Like water gushing from consuming snow.
    Then first I did perceive I had offended;
    My blood the tears were that from her descended.                  60
    Before her feet thrice prostrate down I fell,
    My fearËd hands thrice back she did repel.
    But doubt thou not (revenge doth grief appease),
    With thy sharp nails upon my face to seize;
    Bescratch mine eyes, spare not my locks to break
    (Anger will help thy hands though ne'er so weak);
    And lest the sad signs of my crime remain,
    Put in their place thy kembËd[168] hairs again.

FOOTNOTES:

[162] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[163] I should like to omit this word, to which there is nothing to
correspond in the original.

[164] Marlowe has misunderstood the original "Sic nisi vittatis quod
erat Cassandra capillis."

[165] "Pessima Tydides scelerum monumenta reliquit."

[166] An awkward translation of

    "Si sinerent lÊsÊ, candidia tota, genÊ."

[167] So ed. B.--Ed. C. "wanton."

[168] Old eds. "keembed." ("Pone recompositas in statione comas.")

ELEGIA VIII.[169]

Execratur lenam quÊ puellam suam meretricis arte instituebat.

    There is--whoe'er will know a bawd aright,
    Give ear--there is an old trot Dipsas hight.[170]
    Her name comes from the thing: she being wise,[171]
    Sees not the morn on rosy horses rise,
    She magic arts and Thessal charms doth know,
    And makes large streams back to their fountains flow;
    She knows with grass, with threads on wrung[172] wheels spun,
    And what with mares' rank humour[173] may be done.
    When she will, cloudes the darkened heaven obscure,
    When she will, day shines everywhere most pure.                   10
    If I have faith, I saw the stars drop blood,
    The purple moon with sanguine visage stood;
    Her I suspect among night's spirits to fly,
    And her old body in birds' plumes to lie.
    Fame saith as I suspect; and in her eyes,
    Two eyeballs shine, and double light thence flies.
    Great grandsires from their ancient graves she chides,
    And with long charms the solid earth divides.
    She draws chaste women to incontinence,
    Nor doth her tongue want harmful eloquence.                       20
    By chance I heard her talk; these words she said,
    While closely hid betwixt two doors I laid.
    "Mistress, thou knowest thou hast a blest youth pleased,
    He stayed and on thy looks his gazes seized.
    And why should'st not please; none thy face exceeds;
    Ay me, thy body hath no worthy weeds!
    As thou art fair, would thou wert fortunate!
    Wert thou rich, poor should not be my state.
    Th' opposËd star of Mars hath done thee harm;
    Now Mars is gone, Venus thy side doth warm,                       30
    And brings good fortune; a rich lover plants
    His love on thee, and can supply thy wants.
    Such is his form as may with thine compare,
    Would he not buy thee, thou for him should'st care."[174]
    She blushed: "Red shame becomes white cheeks; but this
    If feigned, doth well; if true, it doth amiss.
    When on thy lap thine eyes thou dost deject,
    Each one according to his gifts respect.
    Perhaps the Sabines rude, when Tatius reigned
    To yield their love to more than one disdained.                   40
    Now Mars doth rage abroad without all pity,
    And Venus rules in her ∆neas' city.
    Fair women play; she's chaste whom none will have
    Or, but for bashfulness, herself would crave.
    Shake off these wrinkles that thy front assault;
    Wrinkles in beauty is a grievous fault.
    Penelope in bows her youths' strength tried,
    Of horn the bow was that approved[175] their side.
    Time flying slides hence closely, and deceives us,
    And with swift horses the swift year[176] soon leaves us.         50
    Brass shines with use; good garments would[177] be worn;
    Houses not dwelt in, are with filth forlorn.
    Beauty, not exercised, with age is spent,
    Nor one or two men are sufficient.
    Many to rob is more sure, and less hateful,
    From dog-kept flocks come preys to wolves most grateful.
    Behold, what gives the poet but new verses?
    And therefore many thousand he rehearses.
    The poet's god arrayed in robes of gold,
    Of his gilt harp the well-tuned strings doth hold.                60
    Let Homer yield to such as presents bring,
    (Trust me) to give, it is a witty thing.
    Nor, so thou may'st obtain a wealthy prize,
    The vain name of inferior slaves despise.
    Nor let the arms of ancient lines[178] beguile thee;
    Poor lover, with thy grandsires I exile thee.
    Who seeks, for being fair, a night to have,
    What he will give, with greater instance crave.
    Make a small price, while thou thy nets dost lay;
    Lest they should fly; being ta'en, the tyrant play.               70
    Dissemble so, as loved he may be thought,
    And take heed lest he gets that love for naught.
    Deny him oft; feign now thy head doth ache:
    And Isis now will show what 'scuse to make.
    Receive him soon, lest patient use he gain,
    Or lest his love oft beaten back should wane.
    To beggars shut, to bringers ope thy gate;
    Let him within hear barred-out lovers prate.
    And, as first wronged, the wrongËd sometimes banish;
    Thy fault with his fault so repulsed will vanish.                 80
    But never give a spacious time to ire;
    Anger delayed doth oft to hate retire.
    And let thine eyes constrainËd learn to weep,
    That this or that man may thy cheeks moist keep.
    Nor, if thou cozenest one, dread to forswear,
    Venus to mocked men lends a senseless ear.
    Servants fit for thy purpose thou must hire,
    To teach thy lover what thy thoughts desire.
    Let them ask somewhat; many asking little,
    Within a while great heaps grow of a tittle.                      90
    And sister, nurse, and mother spare him not;
    By many hands great wealth is quickly got.
    When causes fail thee to require a gift
    By keeping of thy birth, make but a shift.
    Beware lest he, unrivalled, loves secure;
    Take strife away, love doth not well endure.
    On all the bed men's tumbling[179] let him view,
    And thy neck with lascivious marks made blue.
    Chiefly show him the gifts, which others send:
    If he gives nothing, let him from thee wend.                     100
    When thou hast so much as he gives no more,
    Pray him to lend what thou may'st ne'er restore.
    Let thy tongue flatter, while thy mind harm works;
    Under sweet honey deadly poison lurks.
    If this thou dost, to me by long use known,
    (Nor let my words be with the winds hence blown)
    Oft thou wilt say, 'live well;' thou wilt pray oft,
    That my dead bones may in their grave lie soft."
    As thus she spake, my shadow me betrayed;
    With much ado my hands I scarcely stayed;                        110
    But her blear eyes, bald scalp's thin hoary fleeces,
    And rivelled[180] cheeks I would have pulled a-pieces.
    The gods send thee no house, a poor old age,
    Perpetual thirst, and winter's lasting rage.

FOOTNOTES:

[169] Not in Isham copy or ed A.

[170] "Est quÊdam, nomine Dipsas, anus."

[171]

          "Nigri non illa parentem
    Memnonis in roseis sobria vidit equis."

Cunningham suggests that "wise" was "one of the thousand and one
euphemisms for 'inebriated.'"

[172] The spelling in old eds. is "wrong."

[173]

    "Virus amantis equÊ."

[174] "Si te non emptam vellet emendus erat." (Marlowe's copy must have
read "amandus.")

[175] Proved their strength. "Qui _latus argueret_ corneus arcus erat."

[176] The usual reading is "_Ut_ celer admissis labitur _amnis aquis_."

[177] "Vestis bona _quaerit haberi_."

[178] Old eds. "liues."

[179] "Ille viri toto videat _vestigia_ lecto."

[180] "_Rugosas_ genas."

ELEGIA IX.[181]

Ad Atticum, amantem non oportere desidiosum esse, sicuti nec militem.

    All lovers war, and Cupid hath his tent;
    Attic, all lovers are to war far sent,
    What age fits Mars, with Venus doth agree;
    'Tis shame for eld in war or love to be.
    What years in soldiers captains do require,
    Those in their lovers pretty maids desire.
    Both of them watch: each on the hard earth sleeps:
    His mistress' door this, that his captain's keeps.
    Soldiers must travel far: the wench forth send,[182]
    Her valiant lover follows without end.                            10
    Mounts, and rain-doubled floods he passeth over,
    And treads the desert snowy heaps do[183] cover.
    Going to sea, east winds he doth not chide,
    Nor to hoist sail attends fit time and tide.
    Who but a soldier or a lover's bold
    To suffer storm-mixed snows with night's sharp cold?
    One as a spy doth to his enemies go,
    The other eyes his rival as his foe.
    He cities great, this thresholds lies before:
    This breaks town gates, but he his mistress' door.                20
    Oft to invade the sleeping foe 'tis good,
    And armed to shed unarmËd people's blood.
    So the fierce troops of Thracian Rhesus fell,
    And captive horses bade their lord farewell.
    Sooth,[184] lovers watch till sleep the husband charms,
    Who slumbering, they rise up in swelling arms.
    The keepers' hands[185] and corps-du-gard to pass,
    The soldier's, and poor lover's work e'er was.
    Doubtful is war and love; the vanquished rise,
    And who thou never think'st should fall, down lies.               30
    Therefore whoe'er love slothfulness doth call,
    Let him surcease: love tries wit best of all.
    Achilles burned, Briseis being ta'en away;
    Trojans destroy the Greek wealth, while you may.
    Hector to arms went from his wife's embraces,
    And on Andromache[186] his helmet laces.
    Great Agamemnon was, men say, amazed,
    On Priam's loose-trest daughter when he gazed.
    Mars in the deed the blacksmith's net did stable;
    In heaven was never more notorious fable.                         40
    Myself was dull and faint, to sloth inclined;
    Pleasure and ease had mollified my mind.
    A fair maid's care expelled this sluggishness,
    And to her tents willed me myself address.
    Since may'st thou see me watch and night-wars move:
    He that will not grow slothful, let him love.

FOOTNOTES:

[181] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[182] "Mitte puellam."

[183] Old eds. "to."

[184] So ed. B.--Ed. C "such."

[185] "Custodum transire _manus_ vigilumque catervas." (For "hands" the
poet should have written "bands.")

[186] "Et galeam capiti quae daret uxor erat."

ELEGIA X.[187]

Ad puellam, ne pro amore prÊmia poscat.

    Such as the cause was of two husbands' war,
    Whom Trojan ships fetch'd from Europa far,
    Such as was Leda, whom the god deluded
    In snow-white plumes of a false swan included.
    Such as Amymone through the dry fields strayed,
    When on her head a water pitcher laid.
    Such wert thou, and I feared the bull and eagle,
    And whate'er Love made Jove, should thee inveigle.
    Now all fear with my mind's hot love abates:
    No more this beauty mine eyes captivates.                         10
    Ask'st why I change? because thou crav'st reward;
    This cause hath thee from pleasing me debarred.
    While thou wert plain[188] I loved thy mind and face:
    Now inward faults thy outward form disgrace.
    Love is a naked boy, his years saunce[189] stain,
    And hath no clothes, but open doth remain.
    Will you for gain have Cupid sell himself?
    He hath no bosom where to hide base pelf.
    Love[190] and Love's son are with fierce arms at[191] odds;
    To serve for pay beseems not wanton gods.                         20
    The whore stands to be bought for each man's money,
    And seeks vild wealth by selling of her coney.
    Yet greedy bawd's command she curseth still,
    And doth, constrained, what you do of goodwill.
    Take from irrational beasts a precedent;
    'Tis shame their wits should be more excellent.
    The mare asks not the horse, the cow the bull,
    Nor the mild ewe gifts from the ram doth pull.
    Only a woman gets spoils from a man,
    Farms out herself on nights for what she can;                     30
    And lets[192] what both delight, what both desire,
    Making her joy according to her hire.
    The sport being such, as both alike sweet try it,
    Why should one sell it and the other buy it?
    Why should I lose, and thou gain by the pleasure,
    Which man and woman reap in equal measure?
    Knights of the post[193] of perjuries make sale,
    The unjust judge for bribes becomes a stale.
    'Tis shame sold tongues the guilty should defend,
    Or great wealth from a judgment-seat ascend.                      40
    'Tis shame to grow rich by bed-merchandise,[194]
    Or prostitute thy beauty for bad price.
    Thanks worthily are due for things unbought;
    For beds ill-hired we are indebted nought.
    The hirer payeth all; his rent discharged,
    From further duty he rests then enlarged.
    Fair dames forbear rewards for nights to crave:
    Ill-gotten goods good end will never have.
    The Sabine gauntlets were too dearly won,
    That unto death did press the holy nun.                           50
    The son slew her, that forth to meet him went,
    And a rich necklace caused that punishment.
    Yet think no scorn to ask a wealthy churl;
    He wants no gifts into thy lap to hurl.
    Take clustered grapes from an o'er-laden vine,
    May[195] bounteous love[196] Alcinous' fruit resign.
    Let poor men show their service, faith and care;
    All for their mistress, what they have, prepare.
    In verse to praise kind wenches 'tis my part,
    And whom I like eternise by mine art.                             60
    Garments do wear, jewels and gold do waste,
    The fame that verse gives doth for ever last.
    To give I love, but to be asked disdain;
    Leave asking, and I'll give what I refrain.

FOOTNOTES:

[187] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[188] "Simplex."

[189] Sans.

[190] "Nec _Venus_ apta," &c.

[191] Old eds. "to."

[192] "Vendit."

[193] "Non bene conducti testes."

[194] So ed. B.--ed. C "bad merchandise."

[195] Old eds. "many."

[196] The original has "ager."

ELEGIA XI.[197]

Napen alloquitur, ut paratas tabellas ad Corinnam perferat.

    In skilful gathering ruffled hairs in order,
    NapË, free-born, whose cunning hath no border,[198]
    Thy service for night's scapes is known commodious,
    And to give signs dull wit to thee is odious.[199]
    Corinna clips me oft by thy persuasion:
    Never to harm me made thy faith evasion.
    Receive these lines; them to my mistress carry;
    Be sedulous; let no stay cause thee tarry,
    Nor flint nor iron are in thy soft breast,
    But pure simplicity in thee doth rest.                            10
    And 'tis supposed Love's bow hath wounded thee;
    Defend the ensigns of thy war in me.
    If what I do, she asks, say "hope for night;"
    The rest my hand doth in my letters write.
    Time passeth while I speak; give her my writ,
    But see that forthwith she peruseth it.
    I charge thee mark her eyes and front in reading:
    By speechless looks we guess at things succeeding.
    Straight being read, will her to write much back,
    I hate fair paper should writ matter lack.                        20
    Let her make verses and some blotted letter
    On the last edge to stay mine eyes the better.
    What needs she tire[200] her hand to hold the quill?
    Let this word "Come," alone the tables fill.
    Then with triumphant laurel will I grace them
    And in the midst of Venus' temple place them,
    Subscribing, that to her I consecrate
    My faithful tables, being vile maple late.

FOOTNOTES:

[197] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[198] Bound.

[199] "Et dandis ingeniosa notis."

[200] So Dyce for "try" of the old eds.

ELEGIA XII.[201]

Tabellas quas miserat execratur quod amica noctem negabat.

    Bewail my chance: the sad book is returned,
    This day denial hath my sport adjourned.
    Presages are not vain; when she departed,
    NapË by stumbling on the threshold, started.
    Going out again, pass forth the door more wisely,
    And somewhat higher bear thy foot precisely.
    Hence luckless tables! funeral wood, be flying!
    And thou, the wax, stuffed full with notes denying!
    Which I think gathered from cold hemlock's flower,
    Wherein bad honey Corsic bees did pour:                           10
    Yet as if mixed with red lead thou wert ruddy,
    That colour rightly did appear so bloody.
    As evil wood, thrown in the highways, lie,
    Be broke with wheels of chariots passing by!
    And him that hewed you out for needful uses,
    I'll prove had hands impure with all abuses.
    Poor wretches on the tree themselves did strangle:
    There sat the hangman for men's necks to angle.
    To hoarse scrich-owls foul shadows it allows;
    Vultures and Furies[202] nestled in the boughs.                   20
    To these my love I foolishly committed,
    And then with sweet words to my mistress fitted.
    More fitly had they[203] wrangling bonds contained
    From barbarous lips of some attorney strained.
    Among day-books and bills they had lain better,
    In which the merchant wails his bankrupt debtor.
    Your name approves you made for such like things,
    The number two no good divining brings.
    Angry, I pray that rotten age you racks,
    And sluttish white-mould overgrow the wax.                        30

FOOTNOTES:

[201] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[202] "Volturis in ramis et _strigis_ ova tulit."

[203] Old eds. "thy."

ELEGIA XIII.

Ad Auroram ne properet.

    Now o'er the sea from her old love comes she
    That draws the day from heaven's cold axletree.
    Aurora, whither slid'st thou? down again!
    And birds for[204] Memnon yearly shall be slain.
    Now in her tender arms I sweetly bide,
    If ever, now well lies she by my side.
    The air is cold, and sleep is sweetest now,
    And birds send forth shrill notes from every bough.
    Whither runn'st thou, that men and women love not?
    Hold in thy rosy horses that they move not.                       10
    Ere thou rise, stars teach seamen where to sail,
    But when thou com'st, they of their courses fail.
    Poor travellers though tired, rise at thy sight,
    And[205] soldiers make them ready to the fight.
    The painful hind by thee to field is sent;
    Slow oxen early in the yoke are pent.
    Thou coz'nest boys of sleep, and dost betray them
    To pedants that with cruel lashes pay them.
    Thou mak'st the surety to the lawyer run,
    That with one word hath nigh himself undone.                      20
    The lawyer and the client hate thy view,
    Both whom thou raisest up to toil anew.
    By thy means women of their rest are barred,
    Thou settst their labouring hands to spin and card.
    All[206] could I bear; but that the wench should rise,
    Who can endure, save him with whom none lies?
    How oft wished I night would not give thee place,
    Nor morning stars shun thy uprising face.
    How oft that either wind would break thy coach,
    Or steeds might fall, forced with thick clouds' approach.         30
    Whither go'st thou, hateful nymph? Memnon the elf
    Received his coal-black colour from thyself.
    Say that thy love with Cephalus were not known,
    Then thinkest thou thy loose life is not shown?
    Would Tithon might but talk of thee awhile!
    Not one in heaven should be more base and vile.
    Thou leav'st his bed, because he's faint through age,
    And early mount'st thy hateful carriage:
    But held'st[207] thou in thy arms some Cephalus,
    Then would'st thou cry, "Stay night, and run not thus."           40
    Dost punish[208] me because years make him wane?
    I did not bid thee wed an agËd swain.
    The moon sleeps with Endymion every day;
    Thou art as fair as she, then kiss and play.
    Jove, that thou should'st not haste but wait his leisure,
    Made two nights one to finish up his pleasure.
    I chid[209] no more; she blushed, and therefore heard me,
    Yet lingered not the day, but morning scared me.

FOOTNOTES:

[204] So Dyce for "from" of the old eds.

[205] This line is omitted in ed. A.

[206] Isham copy and ed. A "This."

[207] Isham copy and ed. A "had'st."

[208] Isham copy and ed. A "Punish ye me."

[209] So the Isham copy. The other old eds. "chide."

ELEGIA XIV.[210]

Puellam consolatur cui prÊ nimia cura comÊ deciderant.

    Leave colouring thy tresses, I did cry;
    Now hast thou left no hairs at all to dye.
    But what had been more fair had they been kept?
    Beyond thy robes thy dangling locks had swept.
    Fear'dst thou to dress them being fine and thin,
    Like to the silk the curious[211] Seres spin.
    Or threads which spider's slender foot draws out,
    Fastening her light web some old beam about?
    Not black nor golden were they to our view,
    Yet although [n]either, mixed of either's hue;                    10
    Such as in hilly Ida's watery plains,
    The cedar tall, spoiled of his bark, retains.
    Add[212] they were apt to curl a hundred ways,
    And did to thee no cause of dolour raise.
    Nor hath the needle, or the comb's teeth reft them,
    The maid that kembed them ever safely left them.
    Oft was she dressed before mine eyes, yet never,
    Snatching the comb to beat the wench, outdrive her.
    Oft in the morn, her hairs not yet digested,
    Half-sleeping on a purple bed she rested;                         20
    Yet seemly like a Thracian Bacchanal,
    That tired doth rashly[213] on the green grass fall.
    When they were slender and like downy moss,
    Thy[214] troubled hairs, alas, endured great loss.
    How patiently hot irons they did take,
    In crookËd trannels[215] crispy curls to make.
    I cried, "'Tis sin, 'tis sin, these hairs to burn,
    They well become thee, then to spare them turn.
    Far off be force, no fire to them may reach,
    Thy very hairs will the hot bodkin teach."                        30
    Lost are the goodly locks, which from their crown,
    Phoebus and Bacchus wished were hanging down.
    Such were they as Diana[216] painted stands,
    All naked holding in her wave-moist hands.
    Why dost thy ill-kembed tresses' loss lament?
    Why in thy glass dost look, being discontent?
    Be not to see with wonted eyes inclined;
    To please thyself, thyself put out of mind.
    No charmËd herbs of any harlot scathed thee,
    No faithless witch in Thessal waters bathed thee.                 40
    No sickness harmed thee (far be that away!),
    No envious tongue wrought thy thick locks' decay.
    By thine own hand and fault thy hurt doth grow,
    Thou mad'st thy head with compound poison flow.
    Now Germany shall captive hair-tires send thee,
    And vanquished people curious dressings lend thee.
    Which some admiring, O thou oft wilt blush!
    And say, "He likes me for my borrowed bush.
    Praising for me some unknown Guelder[217] dame,
    But I remember when it was my fame."                              50
    Alas she almost weeps, and her white cheeks,
    Dyed red with shame to hide from shame she seeks.
    She holds, and views her old locks in her lap;
    Ay me! rare gifts unworthy such a hap!
    Cheer up thyself, thy loss thou may'st repair,
    And be hereafter seen with native hair.

FOOTNOTES:

[210] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[211] The original has "colorati Seres."

[212] So ed. B.--Ed. C "And."

[213] "Temere."

[214] Old eds. "They."

[215] Cunningham and the editor of 1826 may be right in reading
"trammels" (_i.e._ ringlets). "Trannel" was the name for a bodkin. (The
original has "Ut fieret torto flexilis orbe sinus.")

[216] "Nuda _Dione_."

[217] "Nescio quam pro me laudat nunc iste _Sygambram_."

ELEGIA XV.

Ad invidos, quod fama poetarum sit perennis.

    Envy, why carp'st thou my time's spent so ill?
    And term'st[218] my works fruits of an idle quill?
    Or that unlike the line from whence I sprung[219]
    War's dusty honours are refused being young?
    Nor that I study not the brawling laws,
    Nor set my voice to sail in every cause?
    Thy scope is mortal; mine, eternal fame.
    That all the world may[220] ever chant my name.
    Homer shall live while Tenedos stands and Ide,
    Or to[221] the sea swift Simois shall[222] slide.                 10
    AscrÊus lives while grapes with new wine swell,
    Or men with crookËd sickles corn down fell.
    The[223] world shall of Callimachus ever speak;
    His art excelled, although his wit was weak.
    For ever lasts high Sophocles' proud vein,
    With sun and moon Aratus shall remain.
    While bondmen cheat, fathers [be] hard,[224] bawds whorish,
    And strumpets flatter, shall Menander flourish.
    Rude Ennius, and Plautus[225] full of wit,
    Are both in Fame's eternal legend writ.                           20
    What age of Varro's name shall not be told,
    And Jason's Argo,[226] and the fleece of gold?
    Lofty Lucretius shall live that hour,
    That nature shall dissolve this earthly bower.
    ∆neas' war and Tityrus shall be read,
    While Rome of all the conquered[227] world is head.
    Till Cupid's bow, and fiery shafts be broken,
    Thy verses, sweet Tibullus, shall be spoken.
    And Gallus shall be known from East to West,
    So shall Lycoris whom he lovËd best.                              30
    Therefore when flint and iron wear away,
    Verse is immortal and shall ne'er decay.
    To[228] verse let kings give place and kingly shows,
    And banks o'er which gold-bearing Tagus flows.
    Let base-conceited wits admire vild things;
    Fair Phoebus lead me to the Muses' springs.
    About my head be quivering myrtle wound,
    And in sad lovers' heads let me be found.
    The living, not the dead, can envy bite,
    For after death all men receive their right.                      40
    Then though death racks[229] my bones in funeral fire,
    I'll live, and as he pulls me down mount higher.

The same, by B. I.[230]

    Envy, why twitt'st thou me, my time's spent ill?
    And call'st my verse fruits of an idle quill?
    Or that (unlike the line from whence I sprung)
    War's dusty honours I pursue not young?
    Or that I study not the tedious laws;
    And prostitute my voice in every cause?
    Thy scope is mortal; mine eternal fame,
    Which through the world shall ever chant my name.
    Homer will live, whilst Tenedos stands, and Ide,
    Or to the sea, fleet Symois doth slide:                           10
    And so shall Hesiod too, while vines do bear,
    Or crookËd sickles crop the ripened ear.
    Callimachus, though in invention low,
    Shall still be sung, since he in art doth flow;
    No loss shall come to Sophocles' proud vein;
    With sun and moon Aratus shall remain.
    Whilst slaves be false, fathers hard, and bawds be whorish,
    Whilst harlots flatter, shall Meander flourish.
    Ennius, though rude, and Accius' high-reared strain,
    A fresh applause in every age shall gain.                         20
    Of Varro's name, what ear shall not be told?
    Of Jason's Argo and the fleece of gold?
    Then, shall Lucretius' lofty numbers die,
    When earth, and seas in fire and flames shall fry.
    Tityrus, Tillage, ∆ney shall be read,[231]
    Whilst Rome of all the conquered world is head.
    Till Cupid's fires be out, and his bow broken,
    Thy verses, neat Tibulus, shall be spoken.
    Our Gallus shall be known from East to West,
    So shall Lycoris, whom he now loves best.                         30
    The suffering ploughshare or the flint may wear,
    But heavenly poesy no death can fear.
    Kings shall give place to it, and kingly shows,
    The banks o'er which gold-bearing Tagus flows.
    Kneel hinds to trash: me let bright Phoebus swell,
    With cups full flowing from the Muses' well.
    The frost-drad[232] myrtle shall impale my head,
    And of sad lovers I'll be often read.
    Envy the living, not the dead doth bite,
    For after death all men receive their right.                      40
    Then when this body falls in funeral fire,
    My name shall live, and my best part aspire.

FOOTNOTES:

[218] Isham copy and ed. A "tearmes our."

[219] Dyce's correction for "come" of the old eds.

[220] Isham copy and ed. A "might."

[221] So Isham copy and ed. A.--Dyce follows ed. B, "Or into sea."

[222] So old eds.--Dyce "doth."

[223] Isham copy and ed. A omit this line and the next.

[224] So Dyce.--Old eds. "fathers hoord." ("_Durus_ pater.")

[225] The poet must have read "animosi _Maccius_ oris." The true reading
is "animosique _Accius_ oris."

[226] Old eds. "Argos."

[227] Isham copy and ed. A "conquering."

[228] Isham copy and ed. A "Let kings give place to verse."

[229] So the Isham copy.--Ed. A (followed by Dyce) gives "rocks."--Eds.
B and C "rakes" (and so Cunningham).

[230] _I.e._ Ben Jonson, who afterwards introduced it into the
_Poetaster_ (I. 1). This version is merely a revision of the preceding,
which must also have been written by Ben Jonson.

[231] "Tityrus et fruges ∆neÔaque arma legentur."

[232] "Metuentem frigora myrtum."

P. OVIDII NASONIS AMORUM.

LIBER SECUNDUS.

ELEGIA I.[233]

Quod pro gigantomachia amores scribere sit coactus.

    I, Ovid, poet, of my[234] wantonness,
    Born at Peligny, to write more address.
    So Cupid wills. Far hence be the severe!
    You are unapt my looser lines to hear.
    Let maids whom hot desire to husbands lead,[235]
    And rude boys, touched with unknown love, me read:
    That some youth hurt, as I am, with Love's bow,
    His own flame's best-acquainted signs may know.
    And long admiring say, "By what means learned,
    Hath this same poet my sad chance discern'd?"                     10
    I durst the great celestial battles tell,
    Hundred-hand Gyges, and had done it well;
    With Earth's revenge, and how Olympus top
    High Ossa bore, Mount Pelion up to prop;
    Jove and Jove's thunderbolts I had in hand,
    Which for[236] his heaven fell on the giants' band.
    My wench her door shut, Jove's affairs I left,
    Even Jove himself out of my wit was reft.
    Pardon me, Jove! thy weapons aid me nought,
    Her shut gates greater lightning than thine brought.              20
    Toys, and light elegies, my darts I took,
    Quickly soft words hard doors wide-open strook.
    Verses reduce the hornËd bloody moon,
    And call the sun's white horses back[237] at noon.
    Snakes leap by verse from caves of broken mountains,[238]
    And turnËd streams run backward to their fountains.
    Verses ope doors; and locks put in the post,
    Although of oak, to yield to verses boast.
    What helps it me of fierce Achill to sing?
    What good to me will either Ajax bring?                           30
    Or he who warred and wandered twenty year?
    Or woful Hector whom wild jades did tear?
    But when I praise a pretty wench's face,
    She in requital doth me oft embrace.
    A great reward! Heroes of[239] famous names
    Farewell! your favour nought my mind inflames.
    Wenches apply your fair looks to my verse,
    Which golden Love doth unto me rehearse.

FOOTNOTES:

[233] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[234] Old eds. "thy."

[235] A clear instance of a plural verb following a singular subject.

[236] "Quod bene pro coelo mitteret ille suo."

[237] Old eds. "blacke."

[238] "Carmine dissiliunt, _abruptis faucibus_, angues." ("Fauces" means
both "jaw" and "mountain-gorge." Marlowe has gone desperately wrong.)

[239] Old eds. "O."

ELEGIA II.[240]

Ad Bagoum, ut custodiam puellÊ sibi commissÊ laxiorem habeat.

    Bagous, whose care doth thy[241] mistress bridle,
    While I speak some few, yet fit words, be idle.
    I saw the damsel walking yesterday,
    There, where the porch doth Danaus' fact[242] display:
    She pleased me soon; I sent, and did her woo;
    Her trembling hand writ back she might not do.
    And asking why, this answer she redoubled,
    Because thy care too much thy mistress troubled.
    Keeper, if thou be wise, cease hate to cherish,
    Believe me, whom we fear, we wish to perish.                      10
    Nor is her husband wise: what needs defence,
    When unprotected[243] there is no expense?
    But furiously he follow[244] his love's fire,
    And thinks her chaste whom many do desire:
    Stolen liberty she may by thee obtain,
    Which giving her, she may give thee again:
    Wilt thou her fault learn? she may make thee tremble.
    Fear to be guilty, then thou may'st dissemble.
    Think when she reads, her mother letters sent her:
    Let him go forth known, that unknown did enter.                   20
    Let him go see her though she do not languish,
    And then report her sick and full of anguish.
    If long she stays, to think the time more short,
    Lay down thy forehead in thy lap to snort.
    Inquire not what with Isis may be done,
    Nor fear lest she to the the‡tres run.
    Knowing her scapes, thine honour shall increase;
    And what less labour than to hold thy peace?
    Let him please, haunt the house, be kindly used,
    Enjoy the wench; let all else be refused.                         30
    Vain causes feign of him, the true to hide,
    And what she likes, let both hold ratified.
    When most her husband bends the brows and frowns,
    His fawning wench with her desire he crowns.
    But yet sometimes to chide thee let her fall
    Counterfeit tears: and thee lewd hangman call.
    Object thou then, what she may well excuse,
    To stain all faith in truth, by false crimes' use.
    Of wealth and honour so shall grow thy heap:
    Do this, and soon thou shalt thy freedom reap.                    40
    On tell-tales' necks thou seest the link-knit chains,
    The filthy prison faithless breasts restrains.
    Water in waters, and fruit, flying touch,
    Tantalus seeks, his long tongue's gain is such.
    While Juno's watchman Iˆ too much eyed,
    Him timeless[245] death took, she was deified.
    I saw one's legs with fetters black and blue,
    By whom the husband his wife's incest[246] knew:
    More he deserved; to both great harm he framed,
    The man did grieve, the woman was defamed.                        50
    Trust me all husbands for such faults are sad,
    Nor make they any man that hears them glad.
    If he loves not, deaf ears thou dost importune,
    Or if he loves, thy tale breeds his misfortune.
    Nor is it easy proved though manifest;
    She safe by favour of her judge doth rest.
    Though himself see, he'll credit her denial,
    Condemn his eyes, and say there is no trial.
    Spying his mistress' tears he will lament
    And say "This blab shall suffer punishment."                      60
    Why fight'st 'gainst odds? to thee, being cast, do hap
    Sharp stripes; she sitteth in the judge's lap.
    To meet for poison or vild facts[247] we crave not;
    My hands an unsheathed shining weapon have not.
    We seek that, through thee, safely love we may;
    What can be easier than the thing we pray?

FOOTNOTES:

[240] Not in Isham copy or ed. "A."

[241] So ed. B.--Ed. C "my."

[242] The original has "agmen." Cunningham suggests "pack." If we retain
"fact" the meaning is "Danaus' guilt."

[243] Old eds. "vn-protested." ("Unde nihil, quamvis non tueare,
perit.")

[244] So ed. B.--Ed. C "follows." (The sense wanted is "Furiously let
him follow" &c.)

[245] "Ante suos annos occidit."

[246] "Unde vir incestum scire coactus erat." (Here "incestum" is
"adultery.")

[247] "Scelus."

ELEGIA III.[248]

Ad Eunuchum servantem dominam.

    Ay me, an eunuch keeps my mistress chaste,
    That cannot Venus' mutual pleasure taste.
    Who first deprived young boys of their best part,
    With self-same wounds he gave, he ought to smart.
    To kind requests thou would'st more gentle prove,
    If ever wench had made lukewarm thy love:
    Thou wert not born to ride, or arms to bear,
    Thy hands agree not with the warlike spear.
    Men handle those; all manly hopes resign,
    Thy mistress' ensigns must be likewise thine.                     10
    Please her--her hate makes others thee abhor;
    If she discards thee, what use serv'st thou for?
    Good form there is, years apt to play together:
    Unmeet is beauty without use to wither.
    She may deceive thee, though thou her protect;
    What two determine never wants effect.
    Our prayers move thee to assist our drift,
    While thou hast time yet to bestow that gift.

FOOTNOTES:

[248] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

ELEGIA IV.

Quod amet mulieres, cujuscunque formÊ sint.

    I mean not to defend the scapes[249] of any,
    Or justify my vices being many;
    For I confess, if that might merit favour,
    Here I display my lewd and loose behaviour.
    I loathe, yet after that I loathe I run:
    Oh, how the burthen irks, that we should[250] shun.
    I cannot rule myself but where Love please;
    Am[251] driven like a ship upon rough seas.
    No one face likes me best, all faces move,
    A hundred reasons make me ever love.                              10
    If any eye me with a modest look,
    I burn,[252] and by that blushful glance am took;
    And she that's coy I like, for being no clown,
    Methinks she would be nimble when she's down.
    Though her sour looks a Sabine's brow resemble,
    I think she'll do, but deeply can dissemble.
    If she be learned, then for her skill I crave her;
    If not, because she's simple I would have her.
    Before Callimachus one prefers me far;
    Seeing she likes my books, why should we jar?                     20
    Another rails at me, and that I write,
    Yet would I lie with her, if that I might:
    Trips she, it likes me well; plods she, what than[253]?
    She would be nimbler lying with a man.
    And when one sweetly sings, then straight I long,
    To quaver on her lips even in her song;
    Or if one touch the lute with art and cunning,
    Who would not love those hands[254] for their swift running?
    And her I like that with a majesty,
    Folds up her arms, and makes low courtesy.                        30
    To[255] leave myself, that am in love with all,
    Some one of these might make the chastest fall.
    If she be tall, she's like an Amazon,
    And therefore fills the bed she lies upon:
    If short, she lies the rounder: to speak[256] troth,
    Both short and long please me, for I love both.
    I[257] think what one undecked would be, being drest;
    Is she attired? then show her graces best.
    A white wench thralls me, so doth golden yellow:
    And nut-brown girls in doing have no fellow.                      40
    If her white neck be shadowed with black hair,
    Why so was Leda's, yet was Leda fair.
    Amber-tress'd[258] is she? then on the morn think I:
    My love alludes to every history:
    A young wench pleaseth, and an old is good,
    This for her looks, that for her womanhood:
    Nay what is she, that any Roman loves,
    But my ambitious ranging mind approves?

FOOTNOTES:

[249] "Mendosos ... mores."

[250] "Heu quam, quae studeas ponere, ferre grave est."

[251] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "And."

[252] This is Dyce's certain correction for the old eds. "blush." (The
originals has "uror.")

[253] Then.

[254] Ed. A "those _nimble_ hands."

[255]

    "Ut taceam de me, qui causa tangor ab omni,
        Illic Hippolytum pone, Priapus erit."

[256] So Isham copy and ed. A.--Eds. B, C "say."

[257] This and the next three lines are omitted in Isham copy and ed. A.

[258] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "yellow trest."

ELEGIA V.[259]

Ad amicam corruptam.

    No love is so dear,--quivered Cupid, fly!--
    That my chief wish should be so oft to die.
    Minding thy fault, with death I wish to revel;
    Alas! a wench is a perpetual evil.
    No intercepted lines thy deeds display,
    No gifts given secretly thy crime bewray.
    O would my proofs as vain might be withstood!
    Ay me, poor soul, why is my cause so good?
    He's happy, that his love dares boldly credit;
    To whom his wench can say, "I never did it."                      10
    He's cruel, and too much his grief doth favour,
    That seeks the conquest by her loose behaviour.
    Poor wretch,[260] I saw when thou didst think I slumbered;
    Not drunk, your faults on the spilt wine I numbered.
    I saw your nodding eyebrows much to speak,
    Even from your cheeks, part of a voice did break.
    Not silent were thine eyes, the board with wine
    Was scribbled, and thy fingers writ a line.
    I knew your speech (what do not lovers see?)
    And words that seemed for certain marks to be.                    20
    Now many guests were gone, the feast being done,
    The youthful sort to divers pastimes run.
    I saw you then unlawful kisses join;
    (Such with my tongue it likes me to purloin);
    None such the sister gives her brother grave,
    But such kind wenches let their lovers have.
    Phoebus gave not Diana such, 'tis thought,
    But Venus often to her Mars such brought.
    "What dost?" I cried; "transport'st thou my delight?
    My lordly hands I'll throw upon my right.                         30
    Such bliss is only common to us two,
    In this sweet good why hath a third to do?"
    This, and what grief enforced me say, I said:
    A scarlet blush her guilty face arrayed;
    Even such as by Aurora hath the sky,
    Or maids that their betrothËd husbands spy;
    Such as a rose mixed with a lily breeds,
    Or when the moon travails with charmËd steeds.
    Or such as, lest long years should turn the dye,
    Arachne[261] stains Assyrian ivory.                               40
    To these, or some of these, like was her colour:
    By chance her beauty never shinËd fuller.
    She viewed the earth; the earth to view, beseemed her.
    She lookËd sad; sad, comely I esteemed her.
    Even kembËd as they were, her locks to rend,
    And scratch her fair soft cheeks I did intend.
    Seeing her face, mine upreared arms descended,
    With her own armour was my wench defended.
    I, that erewhile was fierce, now humbly sue,
    Lest with worse kisses she should me endue.                       50
    She laughed, and kissed so sweetly as might make
    Wrath-kindled Jove away his thunder shake.
    I grieve lest others should such good perceive,
    And wish hereby them all unknown[262] to leave.
    Also much better were they than I tell,
    And ever seemed as some new sweet befell.
    'Tis ill they pleased so much, for in my lips
    Lay her whole tongue hid, mine in hers she dips.
    This grieves me not; no joinËd kisses spent,
    Bewail I only, though I them lament.                              60
    Nowhere can they be taught but in the bed;
    I know no master of so great hire sped.[263]

FOOTNOTES:

[259] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[260] So Dyce for "Poor _wench_" of the old eds.--The original has "Ipse
miser vidi."

[261] "Maeonis Assyrium femina tinxit opus." Dyce remarks that Marlowe
"was induced to give this extraordinary version of the line by
recollecting that in the sixth book of Ovid's _Metamorphoses_ Arachne is
termed 'Maeonis,' while her father is mentioned as a dyer."

[262] A bad mistranslation of "Et volo non ex hac illa fuisse nota."

[263] Far from the original "Nescio quis pretium grande magister habet."

ELEGIA VI.[264]

In mortem psittaci.

    The parrot, from East India to me sent,[265]
    Is dead; all fowls her exequies frequent!
    Go godly[266] birds, striking your breasts, bewail,
    And with rough claws your tender cheeks assail.
    For woful hairs let piece-torn plumes abound,
    For long shrild[267] trumpets let your notes resound.
    Why Philomel dost Tereus' lewdness mourn?
    All wasting years have that complaint now[268] worn.
    Thy tunes let this rare bird's sad funeral borrow;
    Itys[269] a great, but ancient cause of sorrow.                   10
    All you whose pinions in the clear air soar,
    But most, thou friendly turtle-dove, deplore.
    Full concord all your lives was you betwixt,
    And to the end your constant faith stood fixt.
    What Pylades did to Orestes prove,
    Such to the parrot was the turtle-dove.
    But what availed this faith? her rarest hue?
    Or voice that how to change the wild notes knew?
    What helps it thou wert given to please my wench?
    Birds' hapless glory, death thy life doth quench.                 20
    Thou with thy quills might'st make green emeralds dark,
    And pass our scarlet of red saffron's mark.
    No such voice-feigning bird was on the ground,
    Thou spok'st thy words so well with stammering sound.
    Envy hath rapt thee, no fierce wars thou mov'dst;
    Vain-babbling speech, and pleasant peace thou lov'dst.
    Behold how quails among their battles live,
    Which do perchance old age unto them give.
    A little filled thee, and for love of talk,
    Thy mouth to taste of many meats did balk.                        30
    Nuts were thy food, and poppy caused thee sleep,
    Pure water's moisture thirst away did keep.
    The ravenous vulture lives, the puttock[270] hovers
    Around the air, the cadess[271] rain discovers.
    And crow[272] survives arms-bearing Pallas' hate,
    Whose life nine ages scarce bring out of date.
    Dead is that speaking image of man's voice,
    The parrot given me, the far world's[273] best choice.
    The greedy spirits[274] take the best things first,
    Supplying their void places with the worst.                       40
    Thersites did Protesilaus survive;
    And Hector died, his brothers yet alive.
    My wench's vows for thee what should I show,
    Which stormy south winds into sea did blow?
    The seventh day came, none following might'st thou see,
    And the Fate's distaff empty stood to thee:
    Yet words in thy benumbËd palate rung;
    "Farewell, Corinna," cried thy dying tongue.
    Elysium hath a wood of holm-trees black,
    Whose earth doth not perpetual green grass lack.                  50
    There good birds rest (if we believe things hidden),
    Whence unclean fowls are said to be forbidden.
    There harmless swans feed all abroad the river;
    There lives the phoenix, one alone bird ever;
    There Juno's bird displays his gorgeous feather,
    And loving doves kiss eagerly together.
    The parrot into wood received with these,
    Turns all the godly[275] birds to what she please.
    A grave her bones hides: on her corps' great grave,
    The little stones these little verses have.                       60
    _This tomb approves I pleased my mistress well
    My mouth in speaking did all birds excell._

FOOTNOTES:

[264] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[265] Dyce remarks that Marlowe's copy had "ales mihi missus" for
"imitatrix ales."

[266] So Dyce for "goodly" of the old eds. ("piÊ volucres").

[267] Shrill.

[268] So Dyce for "not" of the old eds.

[269] So Dyce for "It is as great."

[270] "Miluus."

[271] "Graculus."

[272] Old eds. "crowes."

[273] Old eds. "words."

[274] Marlowe was very weak in Latin prosedy. The original has "manibus
rapiuntur avaris."

[275] Old eds. "goodly" ("_pias_ volueres").

ELEGIA VII.[276]

AmicÊ se purgat, quod ancillam non amet.

    Dost me of new crimes always guilty frame?
    To overcome, so oft to fight I shame.
    If on the marble theatre I look,
    One among many is, to grieve thee, took.
    If some fair wench me secretly behold,
    Thou arguest she doth secret marks unfold.
    If I praise any, thy poor hairs thou tearest;
    If blame, dissembling of my fault thou fearest.
    If I look well, thou think'st thou dost not move,
    If ill, thou say'st I die for others' love.                       10
    Would I were culpable of some offence,
    They that deserve pain, bear't with patience.
    Now rash accusing, and thy vain belief,
    Forbid thine anger to procure my grief.
    Lo, how the miserable great-eared ass,
    Dulled with much beating, slowly forth doth pass!
    Behold Cypassis, wont to dress thy head,
    Is charged to violate her mistress' bed!
    The gods from this sin rid me of suspicion,
    To like a base wench of despised condition.                       20
    With Venus' game who will a servant grace?
    Or any back, made rough with stripes, embrace?
    Add she was diligent thy locks to braid,
    And, for her skill, to thee a grateful maid.
    Should I solicit her that is so just,--
    To take repulse, and cause her show my lust?
    I swear by Venus, and the winged boy's bow,
    Myself unguilty of this crime I know.

FOOTNOTES:

[276] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

ELEGIA VIII.[277]

Ad Cypassim ancillam CorinnÊ.

    Cypassis, that a thousand ways trim'st hair,
    Worthy to kemb none but a goddess fair,
    Our pleasant scapes show thee no clown to be,
    Apt to thy mistress, but more apt to me.
    Who that our bodies were comprest bewrayed?
    Whence knows Corinna that with thee I played?
    Yet blushed I not, nor used I any saying,
    That might be urged to witness our false playing.
    What if a man with bondwomen offend,
    To prove him foolish did I e'er contend?                          10
    Achilles burnt with face of captive BrisËis,
    Great Agamemnon loved his servant ChrysËis.[278]
    Greater than these myself I not esteem:
    What gracËd kings, in me no shame I deem.
    But when on thee her angry eyes did rush,
    In both thy[279] cheeks she did perceive thee[280] blush.
    But being present,[281] might that work the best,
    By Venus deity how did I protest!
    Thou goddess dost command a warm south blast,
    My self oaths in Carpathian seas to cast.                         20
    For which good turn my sweet reward repay,
    Let me lie with thee, brown Cypass, to-day.
    Ungrate, why feign'st new fears, and dost refuse?
    Well may'st thou one thing for thy mistress use.[282]
    If thou deniest, fool, I'll our deeds express,
    And as a traitor mine own faults confess;
    Telling thy mistress where I was with thee,
    How oft, and by what means, we did agree.

FOOTNOTES:

[277] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[278] "Serva Phoebas" (_i.e._ Cassandra).

[279] Old eds. "my."

[280] So ed. B.--Ed. C "the."

[281]

    "At quanto, si forte refers, _prÊsentior_ ipse,
      Per Veneris feci numina magna fidem."

[282] The original has "Unum est e dominis emeruisse satis."

ELEGIA IX.[283]

Ad Cupidinem.

    O Cupid, that dost never cease my smart!
    O boy, that liest so slothful in my heart!
    Why me that always was the soldier found,
    Dost harm, and in thy[284] tents why dost me wound?
    Why burns thy brand, why strikes thy bow thy friends?
    More glory by thy vanquished foes ascends.
    Did not Pelides whom his spear did grieve,
    Being required, with speedy help relieve?
    Hunters leave taken beasts, pursue the chase,
    And than things found do ever further pace.                       10
    We people wholly given thee, feel thine-arms,
    Thy dull hand stays thy striving enemies' harms.
    Dost joy to have thy hookËd arrows shaked
    In naked bones? love hath my bones left naked.
    So many men and maidens without love,
    Hence with great laud thou may'st a triumph move.
    Rome, if her strength the huge world had not filled,
    With strawy cabins now her courts should build.
    The weary soldier hath the conquered fields,
    His sword, laid by, safe, tho' rude places yields;[285]           20
    The dock inharbours ships drawn from the floods,
    Horse freed from service range abroad the woods.
    And time it was for me to live in quiet,
    That have so oft served pretty wenches' diet.
    Yet should I curse a God, if he but said,
    "Live without love," so sweet ill is a maid.
    For when my loathing it of heat deprives me,
    I know not whither my mind's whirlwind drives me.
    Even as a headstrong courser bears away
    His rider, vainly striving him to stay;                           30
    Or as a sudden gale thrusts into sea
    The haven-touching bark, now near the lea;
    So wavering Cupid brings me back amain,
    And purple Love resumes his darts again.
    Strike, boy, I offer thee my naked breast,
    Here thou hast strength, here thy right hand doth rest.
    Here of themselves thy shafts come, as if shot;
    Better than I their quiver knows them not:
    Hapless is he that all the night lies quiet.
    And slumbering, thinks himself much blessËd by it.                40
    Fool, what is sleep but image of cold death,
    Long shalt thou rest when Fates expire thy breath.
    But me let crafty damsel's words deceive,
    Great joys by hope I inly shall conceive.
    Now let her flatter me, now chide me hard,
    Let me[286] enjoy her oft, oft be debarred.
    Cupid, by thee, Mars in great doubt doth trample,
    And thy stepfather fights by thy example.
    Light art thou, and more windy than thy wings;
    Joys with uncertain faith thou tak'st and brings:                 50
    Yet Love, if thou with thy fair mother hear,
    Within my breast no desert empire bear;
    Subdue the wandering wenches to thy reign,
    So of both people shalt thou homage gain.

FOOTNOTES:

[283] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[284] So ed. B.--Ed. C "my."

[285] In some strange fashion Marlowe has mistaken the substantive
"rudis" (the staff received by the gladiator on his discharge) with the
adjective "rudis" (rude). The original has "Tutaque deposito poscitur
ense rudis."

[286] Old eds. "Let her enjoy me;" but the original has "Saepe fruar
domina."

ELEGIA X.

Ad GrÊcinum quod eodem tempore duas amet.

    GrÊcinus (well I wot) thou told'st me once,
    I could not be in love with two at once;
    By thee deceived, by thee surprised am I,
    For now I love two women equally:
    Both are well favoured, both rich in array,
    Which is the loveliest[287] it is hard to say:
    This seems the fairest, so doth that to me;
    And[288] this doth please me most, and so doth she;
    Even as a boat tossed by contr‡ry wind,
    So with this love and that wavers my mind.                        10
    Venus, why doublest thou my endless smart?
    Was not one wench enough to grieve my heart?
    Why add'st thou stars to heaven, leaves to green woods,
    And to the deep[289] vast sea fresh water-floods?
    Yet this is better far than lie alone:
    Let such as be mine enemies have none;
    Yea, let my foes sleep in an empty bed,
    And in the midst their bodies largely spread:
    But may soft[290] love rouse up my drowsy eyes,
    And from my mistress' bosom let me rise!                          20
    Let one wench cloy me with sweet love's delight,
    If one can do't; if not, two every night.
    Though I am slender, I have store of pith,
    Nor want I strength, but weight, to press her with:
    Pleasure adds fuel to my lustful fire,
    I pay them home with that they most desire:
    Oft have I spent the night in wantonness,
    And in the morn been lively ne'ertheless,
    He's happy who Love's mutual skirmish slays;
    And to the gods for that death Ovid prays.                        30
    Let soldiers[291] chase their enemies amain,
    And with their blood eternal honour gain,
    Let merchants seek wealth and[292] with perjured lips,
    Being wrecked, carouse the sea tired by their ships;
    But when I die, would I might droop with doing,
    And in the midst thereof, set[293] my soul going,
    That at my funerals some may weeping cry,
    "Even as he led his life, so did he die."

FOOTNOTES:

[287] "Artibus in dubio est haec sit an illa prior." Dyce suggests that
Marlowe read "Artubus."

[288] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[289] Eds. B, C, "vast deep sea."

[290] The original has "saevus" (for which Marlowe seems to have read
"suavis").

[291] Isham copy and ed. A "souldiour ... his," and in the next line
"his blood."

[292] So Cunningham for--

    "Let merchants seek wealth with perjured lips
    _And_ being wrecked," &c.

[293] So Isham copy and eds. B, C--Ed. A "let."

ELEGIA XI.[294]

Ad amicam navigantem.

    The lofty pine, from high Mount Pelion raught,[295]
    Ill ways by rough seas wondering waves first taught;
    Which rashly 'twixt the sharp rocks in the deep,
    Carried the famous golden-fleecËd sheep.
    O would that no oars might in seas have sunk!
    The Argo[296] wrecked had deadly waters drunk.
    Lo, country gods and know[n] bed to forsake
    Corinna means, and dangerous ways to take.
    For thee the East and West winds make me pale,
    With icy Boreas, and the Southern gale.                           10
    Thou shalt admire no woods or cities there,
    The unjust seas all bluish do appear.
    The ocean hath no painted stones or shells,
    The sucking[297] shore with their abundance swells.
    Maids on the shore, with marble-white feet tread,
    So far 'tis safe; but to go farther, dread.
    Let others tell how winds fierce battles wage,
    How Scylla's and Charybdis' waters rage;
    And with what rock[s] the feared Ceraunia threat;
    In what gulf either Syrtes have their seat.                       20
    Let others tell this, and what each one speaks
    Believe; no tempest the believer wreaks.[298]
    Too late you look back, when with anchors weighed,
    The crookËd bark hath her swift sails displayed.
    The careful shipman now fears angry gusts,
    And with the waters sees death near him thrusts.
    But if that Triton toss the troubled flood,
    In all thy face will be no crimson blood.
    Then wilt thou Leda's noble twin-stars pray,
    And, he is happy whom the earth holds, say.                       30
    It is more safe to sleep, to read a book,
    The Thracian harp with cunning to have strook.
    But if my words with wingËd storm hence slip,
    Yet, Galatea, favour thou her ship.
    The loss of such a wench much blame will gather,
    Both to the sea-nymphs and the sea-nymphs' father.
    Go, minding to return with prosperous wind,
    Whose blast may hither strongly be inclined.
    Let Nereus bend the waves unto this shore,
    Hither the winds blow, here the spring-tide roar.                 40
    Request mild Zephyr's help for thy avail,
    And with thy hand assist thy swelling sail.
    I from the shore thy known ship first will see,
    And say it brings her that preserveth me.
    I'll clip[299] and kiss thee with all contentation;
    For thy return shall fall the vowed oblation;
    And in the form of beds we'll strew soft sand;
    Each little hill shall for a table stand:
    There, wine being filled, thou many things shalt tell,
    How, almost wrecked, thy ship in main seas fell.                  50
    And hasting to me, neither darksome night,
    Nor violent south-winds did thee aught affright,
    I'll think all true, though it be feignËd matter!
    Mine own desires why should myself not flatter?
    Let the bright day-star cause in heaven this day be,
    To bring that happy time so soon as may be.

FOOTNOTES:

[294] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[295] "CÊsa."

[296] Old eds. "Argos."

[297] "Bibuli litoris illa mora est."

[298] Dyce was doubtless right in supposing "wreaks" to be used _metri
causa_ for "wrecks." Cunningham wanted to give the meaning "recks;" but
that meaning does not suit the context. The original has "credenti nulla
procella nocet."

[299] "Excipiamque humeris."

ELEGIA XII.[300]

Exultat, quod amica potitus sit.

    About my temples go, triumphant bays!
    Conquered Corinna in my bosom lays.
    She whom her husband, guard, and gate, as foes,
    Lest art should win her, firmly did enclose:
    That victory doth chiefly triumph merit,
    Which without bloodshed doth the prey inherit.
    No little ditchËd towns, no lowly walls,
    But to my share a captive damsel falls.
    When Troy by ten years' battle tumbled down,
    With the Atrides many gained renown:                              10
    But I no partner of my glory brook,
    Nor can another say his help I took.
    I, guide and soldier, won the field and wear her,
    I was both horseman, footman, standard-bearer.
    Nor in my act hath fortune mingled chance:
    O care-got[301] triumph hitherwards advance!
    Nor is my war's cause new; but for a queen,
    Europe and Asia in firm peace had been;
    The Lapiths and the Centaurs, for a woman,
    To cruel arms their drunken selves did summon;                    20
    A woman forced the Trojans new to enter
    Wars, just Latinus, in thy kingdom's centre;
    A woman against late-built Rome did send
    The Sabine fathers, who sharp wars intend.
    I saw how bulls for a white heifer strive,
    She looking on them did more courage give.
    And me with many, but me[302] without murther,
    Cupid commands to move his ensigns further.

FOOTNOTES:

[300] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[301] "Cura parte triumphe mea."

[302] Ed. B "but yet me."--Ed. C "but yet without."

ELEGIA XIII.[303]

Ad Isidem, ut parientem Corinnam servet.

    While rashly her womb's burden she casts out,
    Weary Corinna hath her life in doubt.
    She, secretly from[304] me, such harm attempted,
    Angry I was, but fear my wrath exempted.
    But she conceived of me; or I am sure
    I oft have done what might as much procure.
    Thou that frequent'st Canopus' pleasant fields,
    Memphis, and Pharos that sweet date-trees yields,
    And where swift Nile in his large channel skipping,[305]
    By seven huge mouths into the sea is slipping.                    10
    By feared Anubis' visage I thee pray,--
    So in thy temples shall Osiris stay,
    And the dull snake about thy offerings creep,
    And in thy pomp horned Apis with thee keep,--
    Turn thy looks hither, and in one spare twain:
    Thou givest my mistress life, she mine again.
    She oft hath served thee upon certain days,
    Where the French[306] rout engirt themselves with bays.
    On labouring women thou dost pity take,
    Whose bodies with their heavy burdens ache;                       20
    My wench, Lucina, I entreat thee favour;
    Worthy she is, thou should'st in mercy save her.
    In white, with incense, I'll thine altars greet,
    Myself will bring vowed gifts before thy feet,
    Subscribing _Naso with Corinna saved_:
    Do but deserve gifts with this title graved.
    But, if in so great fear I may advise thee,
    To have this skirmish fought let it suffice thee.

FOOTNOTES:

[303] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[304] Old eds. "with," which must be a printer's error. (The original
has "clam me.")

[305] Old eds. "slipping."

[306] "Gallica turma" (_i.e._ the company of _Galli_, the priests of
Isis).

ELEGIA XIV.[307]

In amicam, quod abortivum ipsa fecerit.

    What helps it woman to be free from war,
    Nor, being armed, fierce troops to follow far,
    If without battle self-wrought wounds annoy them.
    And their own privy-weaponed hands destroy them
    Who unborn infants first to slay invented,
    Deserved thereby with death to be tormented.
    Because thy belly should rough wrinkles lack,
    Wilt thou thy womb-inclosËd offspring wrack?
    Had ancient mothers this vile custom cherished,
    All human kind by their default[308] had perished;                10
    Or[309] stones, our stock's original should be hurled,
    Again, by some, in this unpeopled world.
    Who should have Priam's wealthy substance won,
    If watery Thetis had her child fordone?
    In swelling womb her twins had Ilia killed,
    He had not been that conquering Rome bid build.
    Had Venus spoiled her belly's Trojan fruit,
    The earth of CÊsars had been destitute.
    Thou also that wert born fair, had'st decayed,
    If such a work thy mother had assayed.                            20
    Myself, that better die with loving may,
    Had seen, my mother killing me, no[310] day.
    Why tak'st increasing grapes from vinetrees full?
    With cruel hand why dost green apples pull?
    Fruits ripe will fall; let springing things increase;
    Life is no light price of a small surcease.[311]
    Why with hid irons are your bowels torn?
    And why dire poison give you babes unborn?
    At Colchis, stained with children's blood, men rail,
    And mother-murdered Itys they[312] bewail.                        30
    Both unkind parents; but, for causes sad,
    Their wedlocks' pledges[313] venged their husbands bad.
    What Tereus, what I‰son you provokes,
    To plague your bodies with such harmful strokes?
    Armenian tigers never did so ill,
    Nor dares the lioness her young whelps kill.
    But tender damsels do it, though with pain;
    Oft dies she that her paunch-wrapt[314] child hath slain:
    She dies, and with loose hairs to grave is sent,
    And whoe'er see her, worthily[315] lament.                        40
    But in the air let these words come to naught,
    And my presages of no weight be thought.
    Forgive her, gracious gods, this one delict,
    And on the next fault punishment inflict.

FOOTNOTES:

[307] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[308] "Vitio."

[309] Old eds. "On."

[310] Old eds. "to-day."

[311] "Est pretium parvÊ non leve vita morÊ."

[312] Dyce's suggestion for "thee" of the old eds. The original has
"Aque sua caesum matre queruntur Ityn."

[313]

        "Sed tristibus utraque causis
    Jactura socii sanguinis ulta virum."

[314] An inelegant translation of "Saepe suos uteros quae necat ipse
perit."

[315] Marlowe has given a meaning the very opposite of the original--"Et
clamant 'Merito' qui modo cumque vident."

ELEGIA XV.[316]

Ad annulum, quem dono amicÊ dedit.

    Thou ring that shalt my fair girl's finger bind,
    Wherein is seen the giver's loving mind:
    Be welcome to her, gladly let her take thee,
    And, her small joints encircling, round hoop make thee.
    Fit her so well, as she is fit for me,
    And of just compass for her knuckles be.
    Blest ring, thou in my mistress' hand shall lie,
    Myself, poor wretch, mine own gifts now envy.
    O would that suddenly into my gift,
    I could myself by secret magic shift!                             10
    Then would I wish thee touch my mistress' pap,
    And hide thy left hand underneath her lap,
    I would get off, though strait and sticking fast,
    And in her bosom strangely fall at last.
    Then I, that I may seal her privy leaves,
    Lest to the wax the hold-fast dry gem cleaves,
    Would first my beauteous wench's moist lips touch;
    Only I'll sign naught that may grieve me much.
    I would not out, might I in one place hit:
    But in less compass her small fingers knit.                       20
    My life! that I will shame thee never fear,
    Or be[317] a load thou should'st refuse to bear.
    Wear me, when warmest showers thy members wash,
    And through the gem let thy lost waters pash,
    But seeing thee, I think my thing will swell,
    And even the ring perform a man's part well.
    Vain things why wish I? go, small gift, from hand;
    Let her my faith, with thee given, understand.

FOOTNOTES:

[316] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[317] Old eds. "by."

ELEGIA XVI.[318]

Ad amicam, ut ad rura sua veniat.

    Sulmo, Peligny's third part, me contains,
    A small, but wholesome soil with watery veins,
    Although the sun to rive[319] the earth incline,
    And the Icarian froward dog-star shine;
    Pelignian fields with liquid rivers flow,
    And on the soft ground fertile green grass grow;
    With corn the earth abounds, with vines much more,
    And some few pastures Pallas' olives bore;
    And by the rising herbs, where clear springs slide,
    A grassy turf the moistened earth doth hide.                      10
    But absent is my fire; lies I'll tell none,
    My heat is here, what moves my heat is gone.
    Pollux and Castor, might I stand betwixt,
    In heaven without thee would I not be fixt.
    Upon the cold earth pensive let them lay,
    That mean to travel some long irksome way.
    Or else will maidens young men's mates to go,
    If they determine to persËver so.
    Then on the rough Alps should I tread aloft,
    My hard way with my mistress would seem soft.                     20
    With her I durst the Libyan Syrts break through,
    And raging seas in boisterous south-winds plough.
    No barking dogs, that Scylla's entrails bear,
    Nor thy gulfs, crook'd Malea, would I fear.
    No flowing waves with drownËd ships forth-poured
    By cloyed Charybdis, and again devoured.
    But if stern Neptune's windy power prevail,
    And waters' force force helping Gods to fail,
    With thy white arms upon my shoulders seize;
    So sweet a burden I will bear with ease.                          30
    The youth oft swimming to his Hero kind,
    Had then swum over, but the way was blind.
    But without thee, although vine-planted ground
    Contains me; though the streams the[320] fields surround;
    Though hinds in brooks the running waters bring,
    And cool gales shake the tall trees' leafy spring;
    Healthful Peligny, I esteem naught worth,
    Nor do I like the country of my birth.
    Scythia, Cilicia, Britain are as good,
    And rocks dyed crimson with Prometheus' blood.                    40
    Elms love the vines; the vines with elms abide,
    Why doth my mistress from me oft divide?
    Thou swear'dst,[321] division should not twixt us rise,
    By me, and by my stars, thy radiant eyes;
    Maids' words more vain and light than falling leaves,
    Which, as it seems, hence wind and sea bereaves.
    If any godly care of me thou hast,
    Add deeds unto thy promises at last.
    And with swift nags drawing thy little coach
    (Their reins let loose), right soon my house approach.            50
    But when she comes, you[322] swelling mounts, sink down,
    And falling valleys be the smooth ways' crown.[323]

FOOTNOTES:

[318] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[319] "Findat."

[320] Ed. B "in fields."--Ed. C "in field."

[321] Old eds. "swearest."

[322] Old eds. "your."

[323] "Et faciles curvis vallibus este viÊ."

ELEGIA XVII.[324]

Quod CorinnÊ soli sit serviturus.

    To serve a wench if any think it shame,
    He being judge, I am convinced of blame.
    Let me be slandered, while my fire she hides,
    That Paphos, and[325] flood-beat Cythera guides.
    Would I had been my mistress' gentle prey,
    Since some fair one I should of force obey.
    Beauty gives heart; Corinna's looks excell;
    Ay me, why is it known to her so well?
    But by her glass disdainful pride she learns,
    Nor she herself, but first trimmed up, discerns.                  10
    Not though thy face in all things make thee reign,
    (O face, most cunning mine eyes to detain!)
    Thou ought'st therefore to scorn me for thy mate,
    Small things with greater may be copulate.
    Love-snared Calypso is supposed to pray
    A mortal nymph's[326] refusing lord to stay.
    Who doubts, with Peleus Thetis did consort,
    Egeria with just Numa had good sport.
    Venus with Vulcan, though, smith's tools laid by,
    With his stump foot he halts ill-favouredly.                      20
    This kind of verse is not alike; yet fit,
    With shorter numbers the heroic sit.
    And thou, my light, accept me howsoever;
    Lay in the mid bed, there be my lawgiver.
    My stay no crime, my flight no joy shall breed,
    Nor of our love, to be ashamed we need.
    For great revenues I good verses have,
    And many by me to get glory crave.
    I know a wench reports herself Corinne;
    What would not she give that fair name to win?                    30
    But sundry floods in one bank never go,
    Eurotas cold, and poplar-bearing Po;
    Nor in my books shall one but thou be writ,
    Thou dost alone give matter to my wit.

FOOTNOTES:

[324] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[325] Old eds. "and the."

[326] Marlowe reads "nymphÊ" for "nymphe."

ELEGIA XVIII.[327]

Ad Macrum, quod de amoribus scribat.

    To tragic verse while thou Achilles train'st,
    And new sworn soldiers' maiden arms retain'st,
    We, Macer, sit in Venus' slothful shade,
    And tender love hath great things hateful made.
    Often at length, my wench depart I bid,
    She in my lap sits still as erst she did.
    I said, "It irks me:" half to weeping framed,
    "Ay me!" she cries, "to love why art ashamed?"
    Then wreathes about my neck her winding arms,
    And thousand kisses gives, that work my harms:                    10
    I yield, and back my wit from battles bring,
    Domestic acts, and mine own wars to sing.
    Yet tragedies, and sceptres fill'd my lines,
    But though I apt were for such high designs,
    Love laughËd at my cloak, and buskins painted,
    And rule, so soon with private hands acquainted.
    My mistress' deity also drew me fro it,
    And love triumpheth o'er his buskined poet.
    What lawful is, or we profess love's art:
    (Alas, my precepts turn myself to smart!)                         20
    We write, or what Penelope sends Ulysses,
    Or Phillis' tears that her Demophoon misses.
    What thankless Jason, Macareus, and Paris,
    Phedra, and Hippolyte may read, my care is.
    And what poor Dido, with her drawn sword sharp,
    Doth say, with her that loved the Aonian harp.
    As[328] soon as from strange lands Sabinus came,
    And writings did from divers places frame,
    White-cheeked Penelope knew Ulysses' sign,
    The step-dame read Hippolytus' lustless line.                     30
    ∆neas to Elisa answer gives,
    And Phillis hath to read, if now she lives.
    Jason's sad letter doth Hypsipyle greet;
    Sappho her vowed harp lays at Phoebus' feet.
    Nor of thee, Macer, that resound'st forth arms,
    Is golden love hid in Mars' mid alarms.
    There Paris is, and Helen's crimes record,
    With Laodamia, mate to her dead lord,
    Unless I err to these thou more incline,
    Than wars, and from thy tents wilt come to mine.                  40

FOOTNOTES:

[327] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[328] The original has "Quam cito de toto rediit meus orbe Sabinus," &c.

ELEGIA XIX.[329]

Ad rivalem cui uxor curÊ non erat.

    Fool, if to keep thy wife thou hast no need,
    Keep her from me, my more desire to breed;
    We scorn things lawful; stolen sweets we affect;
    Cruel is he that loves whom none protect.
    Let us, both lovers, hope and fear alike,
    And may repulse place for our wishes strike.[330]
    What should I do with fortune that ne'er fails me?
    Nothing I love that at all times avails me.
    Wily Corinna saw this blemish in me,
    And craftily knows by what means to win me.                       10
    Ah, often, that her hale[331] head ached, she lying,
    Willed me, whose slow feet sought delay, be flying!
    Ah, oft, how much she might, she feigned offence;
    And, doing wrong, made show of innocence.
    So, having vexed, she nourished my warm fire,
    And was again most apt to my desire.
    To please me, what fair terms and sweet words has she!
    Great gods! what kisses, and how many ga'[332] she!
    Thou also that late took'st mine eyes away,
    Oft cozen[333] me, oft, being wooed, say nay;                     20
    And on thy threshold let me lie dispread,
    Suff'ring much cold by hoary night's frost bred.
    So shall my love continue many years;
    This doth delight me, this my courage cheers.
    Fat love, and too much fulsome, me annoys,
    Even as sweet meat a glutted stomach cloys.
    In brazen tower had not Dan‰e dwelt,
    A mother's joy by Jove she had not felt.
    While Juno Iˆ keeps, when horns she wore,
    Jove liked her better than he did before.                         30
    Who covets lawful things takes leaves from woods,
    And drinks stolen waters in surrounding floods.
    Her lover let her mock that long will reign:
    Ay me, let not my warnings cause my pain!
    Whatever haps, by sufferance harm is done,
    What flies I follow, what follows me I shun.
    But thou, of thy fair damsel too secure,
    Begin to shut thy house at evening sure.
    Search at the door who knocks oft in the dark,
    In night's deep silence why the ban-dogs[334] bark.               40
    Whither[335] the subtle maid lines[336] brings and carries,
    Why she alone in empty bed oft tarries.
    Let this care sometimes bite thee to the quick,
    That to deceits it may me forward prick.
    To steal sands from the shore he loves a-life[337]
    That can affect[338] a foolish wittol's wife.
    Now I forewarn, unless to keep her stronger
    Thou dost begin, she shall be mine no longer.
    Long have I borne much, hoping time would beat thee
    To guard her well, that well I might entreat thee.[339]           50
    Thou suffer'st what no husband can endure,
    But of my love it will an end procure.
    Shall I, poor soul, be never interdicted?
    Nor never with night's sharp revenge afflicted.
    In sleeping shall I fearless draw my breath?
    Wilt nothing do, why I should wish thy death?
    Can I but loathe a husband grown a bawd?
    By thy default thou dost our joys defraud.
    Some other seek that may in patience strive with thee,
    To pleasure me, forbid me to corrive with thee.[340]              60

FOOTNOTES:

[329] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[330] "Et faciat voto rara repulsa locum."

[331] Old eds, "haole"--The construction is not plain without a
reference to the original:--

    "Ah, quotiens sani capitis mentita dolores,
      Cunctantem tardo jussit abire pede."

[332] So Dyce for "gave" of the old eds.

[333] The reading of the original is "Saepe time insidias."

[334] Dogs tied up on account of their fierceness.

[335] Old eds. "Whether" (a common form of "whither").

[336] "Tabellas."

[337] As dearly as life.

[338] Old eds. "effect."

[339]

    "Multa diuque tuli; speravi saepe futurum
      Cum bene servasses ut bene verba darem."

[340] "Me tibi rivalem si juvat esse, veta."

P. OVIDII MASONIS AMORUM.

LIBER TERTIUS.

ELEGIA I.[341]

Deliberatio poetÊ, utrum elegos pergat scribere an potius tragoedias.

    An old wood stands, uncut of long years' space,
    'Tis credible some godhead[342] haunts the place.
    In midst thereof a stone-paved sacred spring,
    Where round about small birds most sweetly sing.
    Here while I walk, hid close in shady grove,
    To find what work my muse might move, I strove,
    Elegia came with hairs perfumËd sweet,
    And one, I think, was longer, of her feet:
    A decent form, thin robe, a lover's look,
    By her foot's blemish greater grace she took.                     10
    Then with huge steps came violent Tragedy,
    Stern was her front, her cloak[343] on ground did lie.
    Her left hand held abroad a regal sceptre,
    The Lydian buskin [in] fit paces kept her.
    And first she[344] said, "When will thy love be spent,
    O poet careless of thy argument?
    Wine-bibbing banquets tell thy naughtiness,
    Each cross-way's corner doth as much express.
    Oft some points at the prophet passing by,
    And, 'This is he whom fierce love burns,' they cry.               20
    A laughing-stock thou art to all the city;
    While without shame thou sing'st thy lewdness' ditty.
    'Tis time to move great things in lofty style,
    Long hast thou loitered; greater works compile.
    The subject hides thy wit; men's acts resound;
    This thou wilt say to be a worthy ground.
    Thy muse hath played what may mild girls content,
    And by those numbers is thy first youth spent.
    Now give the Roman Tragedy a name,
    To fill my laws thy wanton spirit frame."                         30
    This said, she moved her buskins gaily varnished,
    And seven times shook her head with thick locks garnished.
    The other smiled (I wot), with wanton eyes:
    Err I, or myrtle in her right hand lies?
    "With lofty words stout Tragedy," she said,
    "Why tread'st me down? art thou aye gravely play'd?
    Thou deign'st unequal lines should thee rehearse;
    Thou fight'st against me using mine own verse.
    Thy lofty style with mine I not compare,
    Small doors unfitting for large houses are.                       40
    Light am I, and with me, my care, light Love;
    Not stronger am I, than the thing I move.
    Venus without me should be rustical:
    This goddess' company doth to me befal.
    What gate thy stately words cannot unlock,
    My flattering speeches soon wide open knock.
    And I deserve more than thou canst in verity,
    By suffering much not borne by thy severity.
    By me Corinna learns, cozening her guard,
    To get the door with little noise unbarred;                       50
    And slipped from bed, clothed in a loose nightgown,
    To move her feet unheard in setting[345] down.
    Ah, how oft on hard doors hung I engraved,
    From no man's reading fearing to be saved!
    But, till the keeper[346] went forth, I forget not,
    The maid to hide me in her bosom let not.
    What gift with me was on her birthday sent,
    But cruelly by her was drowned and rent.
    First of thy mind the happy seeds I knew;[347]
    Thou hast my gift, which she would from thee sue."                60
    She left;[348] I said, "You both I must beseech,
    To empty air[349] may go my fearful speech.
    With sceptres and high buskins th' one would dress me,
    So through the world should bright renown express me.
    The other gives my love a conquering name;
    Come, therefore, and to long verse shorter frame.
    Grant, Tragedy, thy poet time's least tittle:
    Thy labour ever lasts; she asks but little."
    She gave me leave; soft loves, in time make haste;
    Some greater work will urge me on at last.                        70

FOOTNOTES:

[341] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[342] Old eds. "good head."

[343] So Dyce--Old eds. "looke." ("Palla jacebat humi.")

[344] Old eds. "he."

[345] Old eds. "sitting." ("Atque impercussos nocte movere pedes.")

[346] Ed. B "keepes;" ed. C "keepers." This line and the next are a
translation of:--

    "Quin ego me memini, dum custos saevus abiret,
        Ancillae missam delituisse sinu."

[347] The original has

    "Prima tuae _movi_ felicia semina mentis."

(Marlowe's copy read "novi.")

[348] "Desierat."

[349] "In vacuas _auras_." (The true reading is "aures.")

ELEGIA II.[350]

Ad amicam cursum equorum spectantem.

    I sit not here the noble horse to see;
    Yet whom thou favour'st, pray may conqueror be.
    To sit and talk with thee I hither came,
    That thou may'st know with love thou mak'st me flame.
    Thou view'st the course; I thee: let either heed
    What please them, and their eyes let either feed.
    What horse-driver thou favour'st most is best,
    Because on him thy care doth hap to rest.
    Such chance let me have: I would bravely run,
    On swift steeds mounted till the race were done.                  10
    Now would I slack the reins, now lash their hide,
    With wheels bent inward now the ring-turn ride,
    In running if I see thee, I shall stay,
    And from my hands the reins will slip away.
    Ah, Pelops from his coach was almost felled,
    Hippodamia's looks while he beheld!
    Yet he attained, by her support, to have her:
    Let us all conquer by our mistress' favour.
    In vain, why fly'st back? force conjoins us now:
    The place's laws this benefit allow.                              20
    But spare my wench, thou at her right hand seated;
    By thy sides touching ill she is entreated.[351]
    And sit thou rounder,[352] that behind us see;
    For shame press not her back with thy hard knee.
    But on the ground thy clothes too loosely lie:
    Gather them up, or lift them, lo, will I.
    Envious[353] garments, so good legs to hide!
    The more thou look'st, the more the gown's envÏed.
    Swift Atalanta's flying legs, like these,
    Wish in his hands grasped did Hippomenes.                         30
    Coat-tucked Diana's legs are painted like them,
    When strong wild beasts, she, stronger, hunts to strike them.
    Ere these were seen, I burnt: what will these do?
    Flames into flame, floods thou pour'st seas into,
    By these I judge; delight me may the rest,
    Which lie hid, under her thin veil supprest.
    Yet in the meantime wilt small winds bestow,
    That from thy fan, moved by my hand, may blow?
    Or is my heat of mind, not of the sky?
    Is't women's love my captive breast doth fry?                     40
    While thus I speak, black dust her white robes ray;[354]
    Foul dust, from her fair body go away!
    Now comes the pomp; themselves let all men cheer;[355]
    The shout is nigh; the golden pomp comes here.
    First, Victory is brought with large spread wing:
    Goddess, come here; make my love conquering.
    Applaud you Neptune, that dare trust his wave,
    The sea I use not: me my earth must have.
    Soldier applaud thy Mars, no wars we move,
    Peace pleaseth me, and in mid peace is love.                      50
    With augurs Phoebus, Phoebe with hunters stands.
    To thee Minerva turn the craftsmen's hands.
    Ceres and Bacchus countrymen adore,
    Champions please[356] Pollux, Castor loves horsemen more.
    Thee, gentle Venus, and the boy that flies,
    We praise: great goddess aid my enterprise.
    Let my new mistress grant to be beloved;
    She becked, and prosperous signs gave as she moved.
    What Venus promised, promise thou we pray
    Greater than her, by her leave, thou'rt, I'll say.                60
    The gods, and their rich pomp witness with me,
    For evermore thou shalt my mistress be.
    Thy legs hang down, thou may'st, if that be best,
    Awhile[357] thy tiptoes on the footstool[358] rest.
    Now greatest spectacles the PrÊtor sends,
    Four chariot-horses from the lists' even ends.
    I see whom thou affect'st: he shall subdue;
    The horses seem as thy[359] desire they knew.
    Alas, he runs too far about the ring;
    What dost? thy waggon in less compass bring.                      70
    What dost, unhappy? her good wishes fade:
    Let with strong hand the rein to bend be made.
    One slow we favour, Romans, him revoke:
    And each give signs by casting up his cloak.
    They call him back; lest their gowns toss thy hair,
    To hide thee in my bosom straight repair.
    But now again the barriers open lie,
    And forth the gay troops on swift horses fly.
    At least now conquer, and outrun the rest:
    My mistress' wish confirm with my request.                        80
    My mistress hath her wish; my wish remain:
    He holds the palm: my palm is yet to gain.
    She smiled, and with quick eyes behight[360] some grace:
    Pay it not here, but in another place.

FOOTNOTES:

[350] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[351] "Contactu lateris laeditur ista tui."

[352] "Tua contraha crura."

[353]

    "Invida vestis eras quod tam bona crura tegebas!
        Quoque magis spectes ... invida vestis eras."

[354] Defile.

[355] A strange rendering of "linguis animisque favete."

[356] Ed. B "pleace;" ed. C "place."

[357] Old eds. "Or while."

[358] "Cancellis" (_i.e._ the rails).

[359] Old eds. "they."

[360] "Promisit."

ELEGIA III.[361]

De amica quÊ perjuraverat.

    What, are there gods? herself she hath forswore,
    And yet remains the face she had before.
    How long her locks were ere her oath she took,
    So long they be since she her faith forsook.
    Fair white with rose-red was before commixt;
    Now shine her looks pure white and red betwixt.
    Her foot was small: her foot's form is most fit:
    Comely tall was she, comely tall she's yet.
    Sharp eyes she had: radiant like stars they be,
    By which she, perjured oft, hath lied to[362] me.                 10
    In sooth, th' eternal powers grant maids society
    Falsely to swear; their beauty hath some deity.
    By her eyes, I remember, late she swore,
    And by mine eyes, and mine were painËd sore.
    Say gods: if she unpunished you deceive,
    For other faults why do I loss receive.
    But did you not so envy[363] Cepheus' daughter,
    For her ill-beauteous mother judged to slaughter.
    'Tis not enough, she shakes your record off,
    And, unrevenged, mocked gods with me doth scoff.                  20
    But by my pain to purge her perjuries,
    Cozened, I am the cozener's sacrifice.
    God is a name, no substance, feared in vain,
    And doth the world in fond belief detain.
    Or if there be a God, he loves fine wenches,
    And all things too much in their sole power drenches.
    Mars girts his deadly sword on for my harm;
    Pallas' lance strikes me with unconquered arm;
    At me Apollo bends his pliant bow;
    At me Jove's right hand lightning hath to throw.                  30
    The wrongËd gods dread fair ones to offend,
    And fear those, that to fear them least intend.
    Who now will care the altars to perfume?
    Tut, men should not their courage so consume.
    Jove throws down woods and castles with his fire,
    But bids his darts from perjured girls retire.
    Poor Semele among so many burned,
    Her own request to her own torment turned.
    But when her lover came, had she drawn back,
    The father's thigh should unborn Bacchus lack.                    40
    Why grieve I? and of heaven reproaches pen?
    The gods have eyes, and breasts as well as men.
    Were I a god, I should give women leave,
    With lying lips my godhead to deceive.
    Myself would swear the wenches true did swear,
    And I would be none of the gods severe.
    But yet their gift more moderately use,
    Or in mine eyes, good wench, no pain transfuse.

FOOTNOTES:

[361] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[362] Old eds. "by."

[363]

    "At non invidiÊ vobis CephÎia virgo est,
            Pro male formosa jussa parente mori?"

("InvidiÊ" here means "discredit, odium.")

ELEGIA IV.[364]

Ad virum servantem conjugem.

    Rude man, 'tis vain thy damsel to commend
    To keeper's trust: their wits should them defend.
    Who, without fear, is chaste, is chaste in sooth:
    Who, because means want, doeth not, she doth.
    Though thou her body guard, her mind is stained;
    Nor, 'less[365] she will, can any be restrained.
    Nor can'st by watching keep her mind from sin,
    All being shut out, the adulterer is within.
    Who may offend, sins least; power to do ill
    The fainting seeds of naughtiness doth kill.                      10
    Forbear to kindle vice by prohibition;
    Sooner shall kindness gain thy will's fruition.
    I saw a horse against the bit stiff-necked,
    Like lightning go, his struggling mouth being checked:
    When he perceived the reins let slack, he stayed,
    And on his loose mane the loose bridle laid.
    How to attain what is denied we think,
    Even as the sick desire forbidden drink.
    Argus had either way an hundred eyes,
    Yet by deceit Love did them all surprise.                         20
    In stone and iron walls Dan‰e shut,
    Came forth a mother, though a maid there put.
    Penelope, though no watch looked unto her,
    Was not defiled by any gallant wooer.
    What's kept, we covet more: the care makes theft,
    Few love what others have unguarded left.
    Nor doth her face please, but her husband's love:
    I know not what men think should thee so move[366]
    She is not chaste that's kept, but a dear whore:[367]
    Thy fear is than her body valued more.                            30
    Although thou chafe, stolen pleasure is sweet play;
    She pleaseth best, "I fear," if any say.
    A free-born wench, no right 'tis up to lock,
    So use we women of strange nations' stock.
    Because the keeper may come say, "I did it,"
    She must be honest to thy servant's credit.
    He is too clownish whom a lewd wife grieves,
    And this town's well-known custom not believes;
    Where Mars his sons not without fault did breed,
    Remus and Romulus, Ilia's twin-born seed.                         40
    Cannot a fair one, if not chaste, please thee?
    Never can these by any means agree.
    Kindly thy mistress use, if thou be wise;
    Look gently, and rough husbands' laws despise.
    Honour what friends thy wife gives, she'll give many,
    Least labour so shall win great grace of any.
    So shalt thou go with youths to feasts together,
    And see at home much that thou ne'er brought'st thither.

FOOTNOTES:

[364] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[365] Old eds. "least." ("Nec custodiri, ni velit, ulla potest.")

[366] The original has "Nescio quid, quod te ceperit, esse putant."

[367] Dyce calls this line an "erroneous version of 'Non proba sit quam
vir servat, sed adultera; cara est.'" But Merkel's reading is "Non proba
fit quam vir servat, sed adultera cara"--which is accurately rendered by
Marlowe.

ELEGIA VI.[368]

Ad amnem dum iter faceret ad amicam.

    Flood with reed-grown[369] slime banks, till I be past
    Thy waters stay: I to my mistress haste.
    Thou hast no bridge, nor boat with ropes to throw,
    That may transport me, without oars to row.
    Thee I have passed, and knew thy stream none such,
    When thy wave's brim did scarce my ankles touch.
    With snow thawed from the next hill now thou gushest,[370]
    And in thy foul deep waters thick thou rushest.
    What helps my haste? what to have ta'en small rest?
    What day and night to travel in her quest?                        10
    If standing here I can by no means get
    My foot upon the further bank to set.
    Now wish I those wings noble Perseus had,
    Bearing the head with dreadful adders[371] clad;
    Now wish the chariot, whence corn fields were found,
    First to be thrown upon the untilled ground:
    I speak old poet's wonderful inventions,
    Ne'er was, nor [e'er] shall be, what my verse mentions.
    Rather, thou large bank-overflowing river,
    Slide in thy bounds; so shalt thou run for ever.                  20
    Trust me, land-stream, thou shalt no envy lack,
    If I a lover be by thee held back.
    Great floods ought to assist young men in love,
    Great floods the force of it do often prove.
    In mid Bithynia,[372] 'tis said, Inachus
    Grew pale, and, in cold fords, hot lecherous.
    Troy had not yet been ten years' siege out stander,
    When nymph NeÊra rapt thy looks, Scamander.
    What, not Alpheus in strange lands to run,
    The Arcadian virgin's constant love hath won?                     30
    And Creusa unto Xanthus first affied,
    They say Peneus near Phthia's town did hide.
    What should I name Asop,[373] that Thebe loved,
    Thebe who mother of five daughters proved,
    If, Achelˆus, I ask where thy horns stand,
    Thou say'st, broke with Alcides' angry hand.
    Not Calydon, nor ∆tolia did please;
    One Deianira was more worth than these.
    Rich Nile by seven mouths to the vast sea flowing,
    Who so well keeps his water's head from knowing,                  40
    Is by Evadne thought to take such flame,
    As his deep whirlpools could not quench the same.
    Dry Enipeus, Tyro to embrace,
    Fly back his stream[374] charged; the stream charged, gave place.
    Nor pass I thee, who hollow rocks down tumbling,
    In Tibur's field with watery foam art rumbling.
    Whom Ilia pleased, though in her looks grief revelled,
    Her cheeks were scratched, her goodly hairs dishevelled.
    She, wailing Mar's sin and her uncle's crime,
    Strayed barefoot through sole places[375] on a time.              50
    Her, from his swift waves, the bold flood perceived,
    And from the mid ford his hoarse voice upheaved,
    Saying, "Why sadly tread'st my banks upon,
    Ilia sprung from IdÊan Laomedon?
    Where's thy attire? why wanderest here alone?
    To stay thy tresses white veil hast thou none?
    Why weep'st and spoil'st with tears thy watery eyes?
    And fiercely knock'st thy breast that open lies?
    His heart consists of flint and hardest steel,
    That seeing thy tears can any joy then feel.                      60
    Fear not: to thee our court stands open wide,
    There shalt be loved: Ilia, lay fear aside.
    Thou o'er a hundred nymphs or more shalt reign,
    For five score nymphs or more our floods contain.
    Nor, Roman stock, scorn me so much I crave,
    Gifts than my promise greater thou shalt have."[376]
    This said he: she her modest eyes held down.
    Her woful bosom a warm shower did drown.
    Thrice she prepared to fly, thrice she did stay,
    By fear deprived of strength to run away.                         70
    Yet rending with enragËd thumb her tresses,
    Her trembling mouth these unmeet sounds expresses:
    "O would in my forefathers' tomb deep laid,
    My bones had been while yet I was a maid:
    Why being a vestal am I wooed to wed,
    Deflowered and stainËd in unlawful bed.
    Why stay I? men point at me for a whore,
    Shame, that should make me blush, I have no more."
    This said; her coat hoodwinked her fearful eyes,
    And into water desperately she flies.                             80
    'Tis said the slippery stream held up her breast,
    And kindly gave her what she likËd best.
    And I believe some wench thou hast affected,
    But woods and groves keep your faults undetected.
    While thus I speak the waters more abounded,
    And from the channel all abroad surrounded.
    Mad stream, why dost our mutual joys defer?
    Clown, from my journey why dost me deter?
    How would'st thou flow wert thou a noble flood?
    If thy great fame in every region stood?                          90
    Thou hast no name, but com'st from snowy mountains;
    No certain house thou hast, nor any fountains;
    Thy springs are nought but rain and melted snow,
    Which wealth cold winter doth on thee bestow.
    Either thou art muddy in mid-winter tide,
    Or full of dust dost on the dry earth slide.
    What thirsty traveller ever drunk of thee?
    Who said with grateful voice, "Perpetual be!"
    Harmful to beasts, and to the fields thou proves,
    Perchance these[377] others, me mine own loss moves.             100
    To this I fondly[378] loves of floods told plainly,
    I shame so great names to have used so vainly.
    I know not what expecting, I ere while,
    Named Achelˆus, Inachus, and Nile.[379]
    But for thy merits I wish thee, white stream,[380]
    Dry winters aye, and suns in heat extreme.

FOOTNOTES:

[368] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.--In the old copies this elegy is
marked "Elegia v." The fifth elegy (beginning "Nox erat et somnus," &c.)
was not contained in Marlowe's copy.

[369] Old eds. "redde-growne."

[370] So Dyce for "rushest" of the old eds.

[371] So Dyce for "arrowes" of the old eds.

[372] The original has "Inachus in Melie Bithynide pallidus isse."
&c.--Dyce suggests that Marlowe's copy had "in _media_ Bithynide."

[373] Old eds. "Aesope."

[374] Old eds. "shame."

[375] "Loca sola."

[376] The original has "Desit famosus qui notet ora pudor" (or "Desint
... quae," &c.)

[377] "Forsitan haec alios, me mea damna movent."

[378] "Demens."

[379] Old eds. "Ile."

[380] Marlowe read "nunc candide" for "non candide."

ELEGIA VII.

Quod ab amica receptus, cum ea coire non potuit, conqueritur.

    Either she was foul, or her attire was bad,
    Or she was not the wench I wished to have had.
    Idly I lay with her, as if I loved not,
    And like a burden grieved the bed that moved not.
    Though both of us performed our true intent,
    Yet could I not cast anchor where I meant.
    She on my neck her ivory arms did throw,
    Her[381] arms far whiter than the Scythian snow.
    And eagerly she kissed me with her tongue,
    And under mine her wanton thigh she flung,                        10
    Yea, and she soothed me up, and called me "Sir,"[382]
    And used all speech that might provoke and stir.
    Yet like as if cold hemlock I had drunk,
    It mockËd me, hung down the head and sunk.
    Like a dull cipher, or rude block I lay,
    Or shade, or body was I, who can say?
    What will my age do, age I cannot shun,
    Seeing[383] in my prime my force is spent and done?
    I blush, that being youthful, hot, and lusty,
    I prove neither youth nor man, but old and rusty.                 20
    Pure rose she, like a nun to sacrifice,
    Or one that with her tender brother lies.
    Yet boarded I the golden Chie[384] twice,
    And Libas, and the white-cheeked Pitho thrice.
    Corinna craved it in a summer's night,
    And nine sweet bouts had we[385] before daylight.
    What, waste my limbs through some Thessalian charms?
    May spells and drugs do silly souls such harms?
    With virgin wax hath some imbast[386] my joints?
    And pierced my liver with sharp needle-points?[387]               30
    Charms change corn to grass and make it die:
    By charms are running springs and fountains dry.
    By charms mast drops from oaks, from vines grapes fall,
    And fruit from trees when there's no wind at all.
    Why might not then my sinews be enchanted?
    And I grow faint as with some spirit haunted?
    To this, add shame: shame to perform it quailed me,
    And was the second cause why vigour failed me.
    My idle thoughts delighted her no more,
    Than did the robe or garment which she wore.                      40
    Yet might her touch make youthful Pylius fire,
    And Tithon livelier than his years require.
    Even her I had, and she had me in vain,
    What might I crave more, if I ask again?
    I think the great gods grieved they had bestowed,
    This[388] benefit: which lewdly[389] I foreslowed.[390]
    I wished to be received in, in[391] I get me.
    To kiss, I kiss;[392] to lie with her, she let me.
    Why was I blest? why made king to refuse[393] it?
    Chuff-like had I not gold and could not use it?                   50
    So in a spring thrives he that told so much,[394]
    And looks upon the fruits he cannot touch.
    Hath any rose so from a fresh young maid,
    As she might straight have gone to church and prayed?
    Well, I believe, she kissed not as she should,
    Nor used the sleight and[395] cunning which she could.
    Huge oaks, hard adamants might she have moved,
    And with sweet words caus[ed] deaf rocks to have loved.
    Worthy she was to move both gods and men,
    But neither was I man nor livËd then.                             60
    Can deaf ears[396] take delight when PhÊmius sings?
    Or Thamyris in curious painted things?
    What sweet thought is there but I had the same?
    And one gave place still as another came.
    Yet notwithstanding, like one dead it lay,
    Drooping more than a rose pulled yesterday.
    Now, when he should not jet, he bolts upright,
    And craves his task, and seeks to be at fight.
    Lie down with shame, and see thou stir no more.
    Seeing thou[397] would'st deceive me as before.                   70
    Thou cozenest me: by thee surprised am I,
    And bide sore loss[398] with endless infamy.
    Nay more, the wench did not disdain a whit
    To take it in her hand, and play with it.
    But when she saw it would by no means stand,
    But still drooped down, regarding not her hand,
    "Why mock'st thou me," she cried, "or being ill,
    Who bade thee lie down here against thy will?
    Either thou art witched with blood of frogs[399] new dead,
    Or jaded cam'st thou from some other's bed."                      80
    With that, her loose gown on, from me she cast her;
    In skipping out her naked feet much graced her.
    And lest her maid should know of this disgrace,
    To cover it, spilt water in the place.

FOOTNOTES:

[381] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A:--

    "That were as white as is the Scithian snow."

[382] "Dominumque vocavit."

[383] So Isham copy and ed. A.--Eds. B, C "When."

[384] "Flava Chlide."

[385] So Isham copy and ed. A.--Eds. B, C "we had."

[386] The verb "embase" or "imbase" is frequently found in the sense of
"abase." Here the meaning seems to be "weakened, enfeebled." (Ovid's
words are "Sagave poenicea defixit nomina cera.")

[387] So Isham copy and ed. A ("needle points").--Eds. B, C "needles'
points."

[388] So Isham copy and ed. A.--Eds. B, C "The."

[389] "Turpiter."

[390] Neglected.

[391] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy "received in, _and_ in I _got_ me."

[392] So old eds.--Dyce reads "kiss'd."

[393] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "and refusde it."

[394] "Sic aret mediis taciti vulgator in undis."

[395] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "nor."

[396] Isham copy "yeares;" ed. A "yeres;" eds. B, C "eare."

[397] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "Seeing now thou."

[398] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "great hurt."

[399] The original has "Aut te trajectis Aeaea venefica _lanis_," &c.
(As Dyce remarks, Marlowe read "ranis.")

ELEGIA VIII.[400]

Quod ad amica non recipiatur, dolet.

    What man will now take liberal arts in hand,
    Or think soft verse in any stead to stand?
    Wit was sometimes more precious than gold;
    Now poverty great barbarism we hold.
    When our books did my mistress fair content,
    I might not go whither my papers went.
    She praised me, yet the gate shut fast upon her,
    I here and there go, witty with dishonour.
    See a rich chuff, whose wounds great wealth inferred,
    For bloodshed knighted, before me preferred.                      10
    Fool, can'st thou him in thy white arms embrace?
    Fool, can'st thou lie in his enfolding space?
    Know'st not this head[401] a helm was wont to bear?
    This side that serves thee, a sharp sword did wear.
    His left hand, whereon gold doth ill alight,
    A target bore: blood-sprinkled was his right.
    Can'st touch that hand wherewith some one lies dead?
    Ah, whither is thy breast's soft nature fled?
    Behold the signs of ancient fight, his scars!
    Whate'er he hath, his body gained in wars.                        20
    Perhaps he'll tell how oft he slew a man,
    Confessing this, why dost thou touch him than?[402]
    I, the pure priest of Phoebus and the Muses,
    At thy deaf doors in verse sing my abuses.
    Not what we slothful know,[403] let wise men learn,
    But follow trembling camps and battles stern.
    And for a good verse draw the first dart forth:[404]
    Homer without this shall be nothing worth.
    Jove, being admonished gold had sovereign power,
    To win the maid came in a golden shower.                          30
    Till then, rough was her father, she severe,
    The posts of brass, the walls of iron were.
    But when in gifts the wise adulterer came,
    She held her lap ope to receive the same.
    Yet when old Saturn heaven's rule possest,
    All gain in darkness the deep earth supprest.
    Gold, silver, iron's heavy weight, and brass,
    In hell were harboured; here was found no mass.
    But better things it gave, corn without ploughs,
    Apples, and honey in oaks' hollow boughs.                         40
    With strong ploughshares no man the earth did cleave,
    The ditcher no marks on the ground did leave.
    Nor hanging oars the troubled seas did sweep,
    Men kept the shore and sailed not into deep.
    Against thyself, man's nature, thou wert cunning,
    And to thine own loss was thy wit swift running.
    Why gird'st thy cities with a towerËd wall,
    Why let'st discordant hands to armour fall?
    What dost with seas? with th' earth thou wert content;
    Why seek'st not heaven, the third realm, to frequent?             50
    Heaven thou affects: with Romulus, temples brave,
    Bacchus, Alcides, and now CÊsar have.
    Gold from the earth instead of fruits we pluck;
    Soldiers by blood to be enriched have luck.
    Courts shut the poor out; wealth gives estimation.
    Thence grows the judge, and knight of reputation.
    All,[405] they possess: they govern fields and laws,
    They manage peace and raw war's bloody jaws.
    Only our loves let not such rich churls gain:
    'Tis well if some wench for the poor remain.                      60
    Now, Sabine-like, though chaste she seems to live,
    One her[406] commands, who many things can give.
    For me, she doth keeper[407] and husband fear,
    If I should give, both would the house forbear.
    If of scorned lovers god be venger just,
    O let him change goods so ill-got to dust.

FOOTNOTES:

[400] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[401] So ed. B.--Ed. C "his." ("Caput _hoc_ galeam portare solebat.")

[402] Then.

[403] Old eds. knew.

[404] Marlowe has quite mistaken the meaning of the original "Proque
bono versu primum deducite pilum."

[405] A very loose rendering of Ovid's couplet--

    "Omnia possideant; illis Campusque Forumque
      Serviat; hi pacem crudaque bella gerant."

[406] So Dyce for "she" of the old eds. ("Imperat ut captae qui dare
multa potest.")

[407] The original has "Me prohibet custos: in me timet illa maritum."

ELEGIA IX.[408]

Tibulli mortem deflet.

    If Thetis and the Morn their sons did wail,
    And envious Fates great goddesses assail;
    Sad Elegy,[409] thy woful hairs unbind:
    Ah, now a name too true thou hast I find.
    Tibullus, thy work's poet, and thy fame,
    Burns his dead body in the funeral flame.
    Lo, Cupid brings his quiver spoilËd quite,
    His broken bow, his firebrand without light!
    How piteously with drooping wings he stands,
    And knocks his bare breast with self-angry hands.                 10
    The locks spread on his neck receive his tears,
    And shaking sobs his mouth for speeches bears.
    So[410] at ∆neas' burial, men report,
    Fair-faced Ilus, he went forth thy court.
    And Venus grieves, Tibullus' life being spent,
    As when the wild boar Adon's groin had rent.
    The gods' care we are called, and men of piety,
    And some there be that think we have a deity.
    Outrageous death profanes all holy things,
    And on all creatures obscure darkness brings.                     20
    To Thracian Orpheus what did parents good?
    Or songs amazing wild beasts of the wood?
    Where[411] Linus by his father Phoebus laid,
    To sing with his unequalled harp is said.
    See Homer from whose fountain ever filled
    Pierian dew to poets is distilled:
    Him the last day in black Avern hath drowned:
    Verses alone are with continuance crowned.
    The work of poets lasts: Troy's labour's fame,
    And that slow web night's falsehood did unframe.                  30
    So Nemesis, so Delia famous are,
    The one his first love, th' other his new care.
    What profit to us hath our pure life bred?
    What to have lain alone in empty bed?
    When bad Fates take good men, I am forbod
    By secret thoughts to think there is a God.
    Live godly, thou shalt die; though honour heaven,
    Yet shall thy life be forcibly bereaven.
    Trust in good verse, Tibullus feels death's pains,
    Scarce rests of all what a small urn contains.                    40
    Thee, sacred poet, could sad flames destroy?
    Nor fearËd they thy body to annoy?
    The holy gods' gilt temples they might fire,
    That durst to so great wickedness aspire.
    Eryx' bright empress turned her looks aside,
    And some, that she refrained tears, have denied.
    Yet better is't, than if Corcyra's Isle,
    Had thee unknown interred in ground most vile.
    Thy dying eyes here did thy mother close,
    Nor did thy ashes her last offerings lose.                        50
    Part of her sorrow here thy sister bearing,
    Comes forth, her unkembed[412] locks asunder tearing.
    Nemesis and thy first wench join their kisses
    With thine, nor this last fire their presence misses.
    Delia departing, "Happier loved," she saith,
    "Was I: thou liv'dst, while thou esteem'dst my faith."
    Nemesis answers, "What's my loss to thee?
    His fainting hand in death engraspËd me."
    If aught remains of us but name and spirit,
    Tibullus doth Elysium's joy inherit.                              60
    Their youthful brows with ivy girt to meet him,
    With Calvus learned Catullus comes, and greet him;
    And thou, if falsely charged to wrong thy friend,
    Callus, that car'dst[413] not blood and life to spend,
    With these thy soul walks: souls if death release,
    The godly[414] sweet Tibullus doth increase.
    Thy bones, I pray, may in the urn safe rest,
    And may th' earth's weight thy ashes naught molest.

FOOTNOTES:

[408] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[409] Ed. B "Eeliga"--Ed. C "Elegia."

[410]

    "Fratris in Aeneae sic illum funere dicunt
      Egressum tectis, pulcher Iule, tuis."

[411] The original has--

    "Aelinon in silvis idem pater, aelinon, altis
      Dicitur invita concinuisse lyra."

In Marlowe's copy the couplet must have been very different.

[412] Old eds. "vnkeembe" and "unkeemb'd."

[413] Old eds. "carst."

[414] "Auxisti numeros, culte Tibulle, pios."

ELEGIA X.[415]

Ad Cererem, conquerens quod ejus sacris cum amica concumbere non
permittatur.

    Come were the times of Ceres' sacrifice;
    In empty bed alone my mistress lies.
    Golden-haired Ceres crowned with ears of corn,
    Why are our pleasures by thy means forborne?
    Thee, goddess, bountiful all nations judge,
    Nor less at man's prosperity any grudge.
    Rude husbandmen baked not their corn before,
    Nor on the earth was known the name of floor.[416]
    On mast of oaks, first oracles, men fed;
    This was their meat, the soft grass was their bed.                10
    First Ceres taught the seed in fields to swell,
    And ripe-eared corn with sharp-edged scythes to fell.
    She first constrained bulls' necks to bear the yoke,
    And untilled ground with crooked ploughshares broke.
    Who thinks her to be glad at lovers' smart,
    And worshipped by their pain and lying apart?
    Nor is she, though she loves the fertile fields,
    A clown, nor no love from her warm breast yields:
    Be witness Crete (nor Crete doth all things feign)
    Crete proud that Jove her nursery maintain.                       20
    There, he who rules the world's star-spangled towers,
    A little boy drunk teat-distilling showers.
    Faith to the witness Jove's praise doth apply;
    Ceres, I think, no known fault will deny.
    The goddess saw Iasion on Candian Ide,
    With strong hand striking wild beasts' bristled hide.
    She saw, and as her marrow took the flame,
    Was divers ways distract with love and shame.
    Love conquered shame, the furrows dry were burned,
    And corn with least part of itself returned.                      30
    When well-tossed mattocks did the ground prepare,
    Being fit-broken with the crooked share,
    And seeds were equally in large fields cast,
    The ploughman's hopes were frustrate at the last.
    The grain-rich goddess in high woods did stray,
    Her long hair's ear-wrought garland fell away.
    Only was Crete fruitful that plenteous year;
    Where Ceres went, each place was harvest there.
    Ida, the seat of groves, did sing[417] with corn,
    Which by the wild boar in the woods was shorn.                    40
    Law-giving Minos did such years desire,
    And wished the goddess long might feel love's fire.
    Ceres, what sports[418] to thee so grievous were,
    As in thy sacrifice we them forbear?
    Why am I sad, when Proserpine is found,
    And Juno-like with Dis reigns under ground?
    Festival days ask Venus, songs, and wine,
    These gifts are meet to please the powers divine.

FOOTNOTES:

[415] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[416] Threshing-floor ("area").

[417] Marlowe has made the school-boy's mistake of confusing "caneo" and
"cano."

[418] The original has

    "Quod tibi secubitus tristes, dea flava, fuissent,
      Hoc cogor sacris nunc ego ferre tuis."

Marlowe appears to have read "Qui tibi concubitus," &c.

ELEGIA XI.[419]

Ad amicam a cujus amore discedere non potest.

    Long have I borne much, mad thy faults me make;
    Dishonest love, my wearied breast forsake!
    Now have I freed myself, and fled the chain,
    And what I have borne, shame to bear again.
    We vanquish, and tread tamed love under feet,
    Victorious wreaths[420] at length my temples greet.
    Suffer, and harden: good grows by this grief,
    Oft bitter juice brings to the sick relief.
    I have sustained, so oft thrust from the door,
    To lay my body on the hard moist floor.                           10
    I know not whom thou lewdly didst embrace,
    When I to watch supplied a servant's place.
    I saw when forth a tirËd lover went.
    His side past service, and his courage spent,
    Yet this is less than if he had seen me;
    May that shame fall mine enemies' chance to be.
    When have not I, fixed to thy side, close laid?
    I have thy husband, guard, and fellow played.
    The people by my company she pleased;
    My love was cause that more men's love she seized.                20
    What, should I tell her vain tongue's filthy lies,
    And, to my loss, god-wronging perjuries?
    What secret becks in banquets with her youths,
    With privy signs, and talk dissembling truths?
    Hearing her to be sick, I thither ran,
    But with my rival sick she was not than.
    These hardened me, with what I keep obscure:[421]
    Some other seek, who will these things endure.
    Now my ship in the wishËd haven crowned,
    With joy hears Neptune's swelling waters sound.                   30
    Leave thy once-powerful words, and flatteries,
    I am not as I was before, unwise.
    Now love and hate my light breast each way move,
    But victory, I think, will hap to love.
    I'll hate, if I can; if not, love 'gainst my will,
    Bulls hate the yoke, yet what they hate have still.
    I fly her lust, but follow beauty's creature,
    I loathe her manners, love her body's feature.
    Nor with thee, nor without thee can I live,
    And doubt to which desire the palm to give.                       40
    Or less fair, or less lewd would thou might'st be:
    Beauty with lewdness doth right ill agree.
    Her deeds gain hate, her face entreateth love;
    Ah, she doth more worth than her vices prove!
    Spare me, oh, by our fellow bed, by all
    The gods, who by thee, to be perjured fall.[422]
    And by thy face to me a power divine,
    And by thine eyes, whose radiance burns out mine!
    Whate'er thou art, mine art thou: choose this course,
    Wilt have me willing, or to love by force.                        50
    Rather I'll hoist up sail, and use the wind,
    That I may love yet, though against my mind.

FOOTNOTES:

[419] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[420] The original has "Venerunt capiti cornua sera meo."

[421] "Et que taceo."

[422] "Qui dant fallendos se tibi saepe, deos."

ELEGIA XII.[423]

Dolet amicam suam ita suis carminibus innotuisse ut rivales multos sibi
pararit.

    What day was that, which all sad haps to bring,
    White birds to lovers did not[424] always sing?
    Or is I think my wish against the stars?
    Or shall I plain some god against me wars?
    Who mine was called, whom I loved more than any,
    I fear with me is common now to many.
    Err I? or by my books[425] is she so known?
    'Tis so: by my wit her abuse is grown.
    And justly: for her praise why did I tell?
    The wench by my fault is set forth to sell.                       10
    The bawd I play, lovers to her I guide:
    Her gate by my hands is set open wide.
    'Tis doubtful whether verse avail or harm,
    Against my good they were an envious charm.
    When Thebes, when Troy, when CÊsar should be writ,
    Alone Corinna moves my wanton wit.
    With Muse opposed, would I my lines had done,
    And Phoebus had forsook my work begun!
    Nor, as use will not poets' record hear,
    Would I my words would any credit bear.                           20
    Scylla by us her father's rich hair steals,
    And Scylla's womb mad raging dogs conceals.
    We cause feet fly, we mingle hares with snakes,
    Victorious Perseus a winged steed's back takes.
    Our verse great Tityus a huge space outspreads,
    And gives the viper-curlËd dog three heads.
    We make Enceladus use a thousand arms,
    And men enthralled by mermaid's[426] singing charms.
    The east winds in Ulysses' bags we shut,
    And blabbing Tantalus in mid-waters put.                          30
    Niobe flint, Callist we make a bear,
    Bird-changËd Progne doth her Itys tear.[427]
    Jove turns himself into a swan, or gold,
    Or his bull's horns Europa's hand doth hold.
    Proteus what should I name? teeth, Thebes' first seed?
    Oxen in whose mouths burning flames did breed?
    Heaven-star, Electra,[428] that bewailed her sisters?
    The ships, whose godhead in the sea now glisters?
    The sun turned back from Atreus' cursed table?                    39
    And sweet-touched harp that to move stones was able?
    Poets' large power is boundless and immense,
    Nor have their words true history's pretence.
    And my wench ought to have seemed falsely praised,
    Now your credulity harm to me hath raised.

FOOTNOTES:

[423] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[424] Marlowe has put his negative in the wrong place and made nonsense
of the couplet:--

    "Quis fuit ille dies quo tristia semper amanti
      Omina non albae concinuistis aves?"

[425] Old eds. "lookes."

[426] "Ambiguae captos virginis ore viros." ("Ambigua virgo" is the
sphinx.)

[427] The original has "_Concinit_ Odrysium Cecropis ales Ityn."

[428] Marlowe's copy must have been very corrupt here. The true reading
is

    "Flere genis electra tuas, auriga, sorores?"

ELEGIA XIII.[429]

De Junonis festo.

    When fruit-filled Tuscia should a wife give me,
    We touched the walls, Camillus, won by thee.
    The priests to Juno did prepare chaste feasts,
    With famous pageants, and their home-bred beasts.
    To know their rites well recompensed my stay,
    Though thither leads a rough steep hilly way.
    There stands an old wood with thick trees dark clouded:
    Who sees it grants some deity there is shrouded.
    An altar takes men's incense and oblation,
    An altar made after the ancient fashion.                          10
    Here, when the pipe with solemn tunes doth sound,
    The annual pomp goes on the covered[430] ground.
    White heifers by glad people forth are led,
    Which with the grass of Tuscan fields are fed,
    And calves from whose feared front no threatening flies,
    And little pigs, base hogsties' sacrifice,
    And rams with horns their hard heads wreathËd back;
    Only the goddess-hated goat did lack,
    By whom disclosed, she in the high woods took,
    Is said to have attempted flight forsook.                         20
    Now[431] is the goat brought through the boys with darts,
    And give[n] to him that the first wound imparts.
    Where Juno comes, each youth and pretty maid,
    Show[432] large ways, with their garments there displayed.
    Jewels and gold their virgin tresses crown,
    And stately robes to their gilt feet hang down.
    As is the use, the nuns in white veils clad,
    Upon their heads the holy mysteries had.
    When the chief pomp comes, loud[433] the people hollow;
    And she her vestal virgin priests doth follow.                    30
    Such was the Greek pomp, Agamemnon dead;
    Which fact[434] and country wealth, Halesus fled.
    And having wandered now through sea and land,
    Built walls high towered with a prosperous hand.
    He to th' Hetrurians Juno's feast commended:
    Let me and them by it be aye befriended.

FOOTNOTES:

[429] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[430] "It per velatas annua pompa vias."

[431]

    "Nunc quoque per pueros jaculis incessitur index
      Et pretium auctori vulneris ipsa datur."

[432] "Praeverrunt latas veste jacente vias."--Dyce remarks that Marlowe
read "Praebuerant."

[433] "Ore favent populi." (In Henry's monumental edition of Virgil's
∆neid, vol. iii. pp. 25-27, there is a very interesting note on the
meaning of the formula "ore favete." He denies the correctness of the
ordinary interpretation "be silent.")

[434] "Et _scelus_ et patrias fugit HalÊsus opes."

ELEGIA XIV.

Ad amicam, si peccatura est, ut occulte peccet.

    Seeing thou art fair, I bar not thy false playing,
    But let not me, poor soul, know[435] of thy straying.
    Nor do I give thee counsel to live chaste,
    But that thou would'st dissemble, when 'tis past.
    She hath not trod awry, that doth deny it.
    Such as confess have lost their good names by it.
    What madness is't to tell night-pranks[436] by day?
    And[437] hidden secrets openly to bewray?
    The strumpet with the stranger will not do,
    Before the room be clear and door put-to.                         10
    Will you make shipwreck of your honest name,
    And let the world be witness of the same?
    Be more advised, walk as a puritan,
    And I shall think you chaste, do what you can.
    Slip still, only deny it when 'tis done,
    And, before folk,[438] immodest speeches shun.
    The bed is for lascivious toyings meet,
    There use all tricks,[439] and tread shame under feet.
    When you are up and dressed, be sage and grave,
    And in the bed hide all the faults you have.                      20
    Be not ashamed to strip you, being there,
    And mingle thighs, yours ever mine to bear.[440]
    There in your rosy lips my tongue entomb,
    Practise a thousand sports when there you come.
    Forbear no wanton words you there would speak,
    And with your pastime let the bedstead creak;
    But with your robes put on an honest face,
    And blush, and seem as you were full of grace.
    Deceive all; let me err; and think I'm right,
    And like a wittol think thee void of slight.                      30
    Why see I lines so oft received and given?
    This bed and that by tumbling made uneven?
    Like one start up your hair tost and displaced,
    And with a wanton's tooth your neck new-rased.
    Grant this, that what you do I may not see;
    If you weigh not ill speeches, yet weigh me.
    My soul fleets[441] when I think what you have done,
    And thorough[442] every vein doth cold blood run.
    Then thee whom I must love, I hate in vain,
    And would be dead, but dead[443] with thee remain.                40
    I'll not sift much, but hold thee soon excused.
    Say but thou wert injuriously accused.
    Though while the deed be doing you be took,
    And I see when you ope the two-leaved book,[444]
    Swear I was blind; deny[445] if you be wise,
    And I will trust your words more than mine eyes.
    From him that yields, the palm[446] is quickly got,
    Teach but your tongue to say, "I did it not,"
    And being justified by two words, think
    The cause acquits you not, but I[447] that wink.                  50

FOOTNOTES:

[435] So Isham copy and eds. B, C.--Ed. A "wit."

[436] So Isham copy.--Ed. A "night-sports."

[437] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "Or."

[438] So Isham copy.--Ed. A "people."

[439] So Isham copy.--Ed. A "toyes."

[440] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "mine ever yours."

[441] "Mens abit."

[442] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "through."

[443] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "dying."

[444] The original has

    "Et fuerint oculis probra videnda meis."

[445] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "yeeld not."

[446] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "garland."

[447] So Isham copy and eds. A, B.--Ed. C "that I."

ELEGIA XV.[448]

Ad Venerem, quod elegis finem imponat.

    Tender Loves' mother[449] a new poet get,
    This last end to my Elegies is set.[450]
    Which I, Peligny's foster-child, have framed,
    Nor am I by such wanton toys defamed.
    Heir of an ancient house, if help that can,
    Not only by war's rage[451] made gentleman.
    In Virgil Mantua joys: in Catull Verone;
    Of me Peligny's nation boasts alone;
    Whom liberty to honest arms compelled,
    When careful Rome in doubt their prowess held.[452]               10
    And some guest viewing watery Sulmo's walls,
    Where little ground to be enclosed befalls,
    "How such a poet could you bring forth?" says:
    "How small soe'er, I'll you for greatest praise."
    Both loves, to whom my heart long time did yield,[453]
    Your golden ensigns pluck[454] out of my field.
    Horned Bacchus graver fury doth distil,
    A greater ground with great horse is to till.
    Weak Elegies, delightful Muse, farewell;
    A work that, after my death, here shall dwell.                    20

FOOTNOTES:

[448] Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[449] "Tenerorum mater amorum."

[450] "Marlowe's copy of Ovid had 'Traditur haec elegis ultima charta
meis.'"--Dyce. (The true reading is "Raditur hic ... meta meis.")

[451] "Non modo militiae turbine factus eques."

[452] "Cum timuit socias anxia turba manus."

[453] "Marlowe's copy of Ovid had 'Culte puer, puerique parens _mihi
tempore longo_.' (instead of what we now read 'Amathusia
culti.')"--Dyce.

[454] Old eds. "pluckt."

EPIGRAMS BY J[OHN] D[AVIES].

EPIGRAMS BY J[OHN] D[AVIES].[455]

AD MUSAM. I.

    Fly, merry Muse, unto that merry town,
    Where thou mayst plays, revels, and triumphs see;
    The house of fame, and theatre of renown,
    Where all good wits and spirits love to be.
    Fall in between their hands that praise and love thee,[456]
    And be to them a laughter and a jest:
    But as for them which scorning shall reprove[457] thee,
    Disdain their wits, and think thine own the best.
    But if thou find any so gross and dull,
    That thinks I do to private taxing[458] lean,                     10
    Bid him go hang, for he is but a gull,
    And knows not what an epigram doth[459] mean,
    Which taxeth,[460] under a particular name,
    A general vice which merits public blame.

FOOTNOTES:

[455] Dyce has carefully recorded the readings of a MS. copy (_Harl.
MS._ 1836) of the present epigrams. As in most cases the variations are
unimportant, I have not thought it necessary to reproduce Dyce's
elaborate collation. Where the MS. readings are distinctly preferable I
have adopted them; but in such cases I have been careful to record the
readings of the printed copies.

[456] So Dyce.--Old eds. "loue and praise thee;" MS. "Seeme to love
thee."

[457] So Isham copy and MS. Ed. A "approve."

[458] Censuring. Dyce compares the Induction to the _Knight of the
Burning Pestle_:--

          "Fly far from hence
    All _private taxes_."

[459] So MS.--Old eds. "does."

[460] MS. "Which carrieth under a peculiar name."

OF A GULL. II.

    Oft in my laughing rhymes I name a gull;
    But this new term will many questions breed;
    Therefore at first I will express at full,
    Who is a true and perfect gull indeed.
    A gull is he who fears a velvet gown,
    And, when a wench is brave, dares not speak to her;
    A gull is he which traverseth the town,
    And is for marriage known a common wooer;
    A gull is he which, while he proudly wears
    A silver-hilted rapier by his side,                               10
    Endures the lie[461] and knocks about the ears,
    Whilst in his sheath his sleeping sword doth bide;
    A gull is he which wears good handsome clothes,
    And stands in presence stroking up his hair,
    And fills up his unperfect speech with oaths,
    But speaks not one wise word throughout the year:
    But, to define a gull in terms precise,--
    A gull is he which seems and is not wise.[462]

FOOTNOTES:

[461] So MS.--Old eds. "lies."

[462] "To this epigram there is an evident allusion in the following one

                           'TO CANDIDUS.
    Friend Candidus, thou often doost demaund
    What humours men by gulling understand.
    Our English Martiall hath full pleasantly
    In his close nips describde a gull to thee:
    I'le follow him, and set downe my conceit
    What a gull is--oh, word of much receit!
    He is a gull whose indiscretion
    Cracks his purse-strings to be in fashion;
    He is a gull who is long in taking roote
    In barraine soyle where can be but small fruite;
    He is a gull who runnes himselfe in debt
    For twelue dayes' wonder, hoping so to get;
    He is a gull whose conscience is a block,
    Not to take interest, but wastes his stock;
    He is a gull who cannot haue a whore,
    But brags how much he spends upon her score;
    He is a gull that for commoditie
    Payes tenne times ten, and sells the same for three;
    He is a gull who, passing finicall,
    Peiseth each word to be rhetoricall;
    And, to conclude, who selfe-conceitedly
    Thinks al men guls, ther's none more gull then he.'

                Guilpin's _Skialetheia, &c._ 1598, _Epig._ 20."
                                                    --_Dyce._

IN REFUM. III.

    Rufus the courtier, at the theatre,
    Leaving the best and most conspicuous place,
    Doth either to the stage[463] himself transfer,
    Or through a grate[464] doth show his double face,
    For that the clamorous fry of Inns of Court
    Fill up the private rooms of greater price,
    And such a place where all may have resort
    He in his singularity doth despise.
    Yet doth not his particular humour shun
    The common stews and brothels of the town,                        10
    Though all the world in troops do thither run,
    Clean and unclean, the gentle and the clown:
      Then why should Rufus in his pride abhor
      A common seat, that loves a common whore?

FOOTNOTES:

[463] It was a common practice for gallants to sit upon hired stools in
the stage, especially at the private theatres. From the _Induction_ to
Marston's _Malcontent_ it appears that the custom was not tolerated at
some of the public theatres. The ordinary charge for the use of a stool
was sixpence.

[464] Malone was no doubt right in supposing that there is here an
allusion to the "private boxes" placed at each side of the balcony at
the back of the stage. They must have been very dark and uncomfortable.
In the _Gull's Horn-Book_ Dekker says that "much new Satin was there
dampned by being smothered to death in darkness."

IN QUINTUM. IV.

    Quintus the dancer useth evermore
    His feet in measure and in rule to move:
    Yet on a time he call'd his mistress _whore_,
    And thought with that sweet word to win her love.
      O, had his tongue like to his feet been taught,
      It never would have utter'd such a thought!

IN PLURIMOS. V.[465]

    Faustinus, Sextus, Cinna, Ponticus,
    With Gella, Lesbia, Thais, Rhodope,
    Rode all to Staines,[466] for no cause serious,
    But for their mirth and for their lechery.
    Scarce were they settled in their lodging, when
    Wenches with wenches, men with men fell out,
    Men with their wenches, wenches with their men;
    Which straight dissolves[467] this ill-assembled rout.
    But since the devil brought them thus together,
    To my discoursing thoughts it is a wonder,                        10
    Why presently as soon as they came thither,
    The self-same devil did them part asunder.
      Doubtless, it seems, it was a foolish devil,
      That thus did part them ere they did some evil.

FOOTNOTES:

[465] MS. "In meritriculas Londinensis."

[466] MS. "Ware."

[467] MS. "dissolv'd"

IN TITUM. VI.

    Titus, the brave and valorous young gallant,
    Three years together in his town hath been;
    Yet my Lord Chancellor's[468] tomb he hath not seen,
    Nor the new water-work,[469] nor the elephant.
      I cannot tell the cause without a smile,--
      He hath been in the Counter all this while.

FOOTNOTES:

[468] Sir Christopher Hatton's tomb. See Dugdale's _History of St.
Paul's Cathedral_, ed. 1658, p. 83.

[469] "The new water-work was at London Bridge. The elephant was an
object of great wonder and long remembered. A curious illustration of
this is found in the _Metamorphosis of the Walnut Tree of Borestall_,
written about 1645, when the poet [William Basse] brings trees of all
descriptions to the funeral, particularly a gigantic oak--

    "The youth of these our times that did behold
      This motion strange of this unwieldy plant
    Now boldly brag with us that are men old,
      That of our age they no advantage want,
      Though in our youth we saw an elephant."
                                        --_Cunningham_.

IN FAUSTUM. VII.

    Faustus, nor lord nor knight, nor wise nor old,
    To every place about the town doth ride;
    He rides into the fields[470] plays to behold,
    He rides to take boat at the water-side,
    He rides to Paul's, he rides to th' ordinary,
    He rides unto the house of bawdry too,--
    Thither his horse so often doth him carry,
    That shortly he will quite forget to go.

FOOTNOTES:

[470] See the admirable account of "The Theatre and Curtain" in Mr.
Halliwell-Phillipps' _Outlines of the Life of Shakespeare_, ed. 3, pp.
385-433. It is there shown that the access to the _Theatre_ play-house
was through Finsbury Fields to the west of the western boundary-wall of
the grounds of the dissolved Holywell Priory.

IN KATAM.[471] VIII.

    Kate, being pleas'd, wish'd that her pleasure could
    Endure as long as a buff-jerkin would.
    Content thee, Kate; although thy pleasure wasteth,
    Thy pleasure's place like a buff-jerkin lasteth,
      For no buff-jerkin hath been oftener worn,
      Nor hath more scrapings or more dressings borne.

FOOTNOTES:

[471] Not in MS.

IN LIBRUM. IX.

    Liber doth vaunt how chastely he hath liv'd
    Since he hath been in town, seven years[472] and more,
    For that he swears he hath four only swiv'd,
    A maid, a wife, a widow, and a whore:
      Then, Liber, thou hast swiv'd all womenkind,
      For a fifth sort, I know, thou canst not find.

FOOTNOTES:

[472] MS. "knowen this towne 7 yeares."

IN MEDONTEM. X.

    Great Captain Medon wears a chain of gold
    Which at five hundred crowns is valuËd,
    For that it was his grandsire's chain of old,
    When great King Henry Boulogne conquerËd.
    And wear it, Medon, for it may ensue,
    That thou, by virtue of this massy chain,
    A stronger town than Boulogne mayst subdue,
    If wise men's saws be not reputed vain;
    For what said Philip, king of Macedon?
    "There is no castle so well fortified,                            10
    But if an ass laden with gold comes on,
    The guard will stoop, and gates fly open wide."

IN GELAM. XI.

    Gella, if thou dost love thyself, take heed
    Lest thou my rhymes unto thy lover read;
    For straight thou grinn'st, and then thy lover seeth
    Thy canker-eaten gums and rotten teeth.

IN QUINTUM.[473] XII.

    Quintus his wit, infus'd into his brain,
    Mislikes the place, and fled into his feet;
    And there it wanders up and down the street,[474]
    Dabbled in the dirt, and soakËd in the rain.
      Doubtless his wit intends not to aspire,
      Which leaves his head, to travel in the mire.

FOOTNOTES:

[473] Not in MS.

[474] Old eds. "streets."

IN SEVERUM. XIII.

    The puritan Severus oft doth read
    This text, that doth pronounce vain speech a sin,--
    "That thing defiles a man, that doth proceed
    From out the mouth, not that which enters in."
    Hence is it that we seldom hear him swear;
    And therefore like a Pharisee, he vaunts:
    But he devours more capons in a year
    Than would suffice a hundred protestants.
    And, sooth, those sectaries are gluttons all,
    As well the thread-bare cobbler as the knight;                    10
    For those poor slaves which have not wherewithal,
    Feed on the rich, till they devour them quite;
      And so, like Pharaoh's kine, they eat up clean
      Those that be fat, yet still themselves be lean.

IN LEUCAM. XIV.[475]

    Leuca in presence once a fart did let:
    Some laugh'd a little; she forsook the place;
    And, mad with shame, did eke her glove forget,
    Which she return'd to fetch with bashful grace;
      And when she would have said "this is[476] my glove,"
      "My fart," quod she; which did more laughter move.

FOOTNOTES:

[475] Not in MS.

[476] So Isham copy.--Other eds. omit the words "this is."

IN MACRUM. XV.

    Thou canst not speak yet, Macer; for to speak,
    Is to distinguish sounds significant:
    Thou with harsh noise the air dost rudely break;
    But what thou utter'st common sense doth want,--
      Half-English words, with fustian terms among,
      Much like the burden of a northern song.

IN FAUSTUM. XVI.

    "That youth," said Faustus, "hath a lion seen,
    Who from a dicing-house comes moneyless."
    But when he lost his hair, where had he been?
    I doubt me, he[477] had seen a lioness.

FOOTNOTES:

[477] So MS. and eds. B, C. Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

IN COSMUM. XVII.

    Cosmus hath more discoursing in his head
    Than Jove when Pallas issu'd from his brain;
    And still he strives to be deliverËd
    Of all his thoughts at once; but all in vain;
    For, as we see at all the playhouse-doors,
    When ended is the play, the dance, and song,
    A thousand townsmen, gentlemen, and whores,
    Porters, and serving-men, together throng,--
    So thoughts of drinking, thriving, wenching, war,
    And borrowing money, ranging in his mind,                         10
    To issue all at once so forward are,
    As none at all can perfect passage find.

IN FLACCUM. XVIII.

    The false knave Flaccus once a bribe I gave;
    The more fool I to bribe so false a knave:
    But he gave back my bribe; the more fool he,
    That for my folly did not cozen me.

IN CINEAM. XIX.

    Thou, doggËd Cineas, hated like a dog,
    For still thou grumblest like a masty[478] dog,
    Compar'st thyself to nothing but a dog;
    Thou say'st thou art as weary as a dog,
    As angry, sick, and hungry as a dog,
    As dull and melancholy as a dog,
    As lazy, sleepy, idle[479] as a dog.
    But why dost thou compare thee to a dog
    In that for which all men despise a dog?
    I will compare thee better to a dog;                              10
    Thou art as fair and comely as a dog,
    Thou art as true and honest as a dog,
    Thou art as kind and liberal as a dog,
    Thou art as wise and valiant as a dog.
    But, Cineas, I have often[480] heard thee tell,
    Thou art as like thy father as may be:
    'Tis like enough; and, faith, I like it well;
    But I am glad thou art not like to me.

FOOTNOTES:

[478] Mastiff.

[479] So Isham copy and MS.--Eds. A, B, C "and as idle."

[480] So MS.--Isham copy and ed. A "oft."

IN GERONTEM.[481] XX.

    Geron, whose[482] mouldy memory corrects
    Old Holinshed our famous chronicler
    With moral rules, and policy collects
    Out of all actions done these fourscore year;
    Accounts the time of every odd[483] event,
    Not from Christ's birth, nor from the prince's reign,
    But from some other famous accident,
    Which in men's general notice doth remain,--
    The siege of Boulogne,[484] and the plaguy sweat,[485]
    The going to Saint Quintin's[486] and New-Haven,[487]             10
    The rising[488] in the north, the frost so great,
    That cart-wheel prints on Thamis' face were graven,[489]
    The fall of money,[490] and burning of Paul's steeple,[491]
    The blazing star,[492] and Spaniards' overthrow:[493]
    By these events, notorious to the people,
    He measures times, and things forepast doth show:
    But most of all, he chiefly reckons by
    A private chance,--the death of his curst[494] wife;
    This is to him the dearest memory,
    And th' happiest accident of all his life.                        20

FOOTNOTES:

[481] Not in MS.

[482] So Isham copy.--Omitted in ed. A.

[483] So Isham copy.--Eds. A, B, C "old."

[484] Boulogne was captured by Henry VIII. in 1544.

[485] The reference probably is to the visitation of 1551.

[486] In 1557 an English corps under the Earl of Pembroke took part in
the war against France. "The English did not share in the glory of the
battle, for they were not present; but they arrived two days after to
take part in the storming of St. Quentin, and to share, to their shame,
in the sack and spoiling of the town."--Froude, VI. 52.

[487] Havre.--The expedition was despatched in 1562.

[488] Led by the Earls of Northumberland and Westmoreland in 1569.

[489] The reference is to the frost of 1564.--"There was one great frost
in England in our memory, and that was in the 7th year of Queen
Elizabeth: which began upon the 21st of December and held in so
extremely that, upon New Year's eve following, people in multitudes went
upon the Thames from London Bridge to Westminster; some, as you tell me,
sir, they do now--playing at football, others shooting at pricks."--"The
Great Frost," 1608 (Arber's "English Garner," Vol. I.)

[490] "This yeare [1560] in the end of September the copper monies which
had been coyned under King Henry the Eight and once before abased by
King Edward the Sixth, were again brought to a lower
valuacion."--Hayward's _Annals of Queen Elizabeth_, p. 73.

[491] On the 4th June 1561, the steeple of St. Paul's was struck by
lightning.

[492] "On the 10th of October (some say on the 7th) appeared a blazing
star in the north, bushing towards the east, which was nightly seen
diminishing of his brightness until the 21st of the same month."--Stow's
_Annales_, under the year 1580 (ed. 1615, p. 687).

[493] The defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588.

[494] Vixenish.

IN MARCUM. XXI.

    When Marcus comes from Mins',[495] he still doth swear,
    By "come[496] on seven," that all is lost and gone:
    But that's not true; for he hath lost his hair,
    Only for that he came too much on[497] one.

FOOTNOTES:

[495] Dyce conjectures that this was the name of some person who kept an
ordinary where gaming was practised. (MS. "for newes.")

[496] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "a seaven."

[497] So MS. with some eccentricities of spelling ("to much one
one").--Old eds. "at."

IN CYPRIUM. XXII.

    The fine youth Cyprius is more terse and neat
    Than the new garden of the Old Temple is;
    And still the newest fashion he doth get,
    And with the time doth change from that to this;
    He wears a hat now of the flat-crown block,[498]
    The treble ruff,[499] long coat, and doublet French:
    He takes tobacco, and doth wear a lock,[500]
    And wastes more time in dressing than a wench.
      Yet this new-fangled youth, made for these times,
      Doth, above all, praise old George[501] Gascoigne's rhymes.[502]  10

FOOTNOTES:

[498] Shape or fashion; properly the wooden mould on which the crown of
a hat is shaped.

[499] So MS.--Old eds. "ruffes."

[500] Love-lock; a lock of hair hanging down the shoulder in the left
side. It was usually plaited with ribands.

[501] So MS. and eds. B, C.--Not in Isham copy or ed. A.

[502] Gascoigne's "rhymes" have been edited in two thick volumes by Mr.
Carew Hazlitt. He died on 7th October 1577. In Gabriel Harvey's _Letter
Book_ (recently edited by Mr. Edward Scott for the Camden Society) there
are some elegies on him.

IN CINEAM. XXIII.

    When Cineas comes amongst his friends in morning,
    He slyly looks[503] who first his cap doth move:
    Him he salutes, the rest so grimly scorning,
    As if for ever they had lost his love.
    I, knowing how it doth the humour fit
    Of this fond gull to be saluted first,
    Catch at my cap, but move it not a whit:
    Which he perceiving,[504] seems for spite to burst.
    But, Cineas, why expect you more of me
    Than I of you? I am as good a man,                                10
    And better too by many a quality,
    For vault, and dance, and fence, and rhyme I can:
      You keep a whore at your own charge, men tell me;
      Indeed, friend Cineas, therein you excel me.[505]

FOOTNOTES:

[503] So Isham copy and ed. A.--Eds. B, C "spies."--MS. "notes."

[504] So the MS.--Isham copy and ed. A "Which perceiving he."--Eds. B, C
"Which to perceiving he."

[505] The MS. adds--

    "You keepe a whore att your [own] charge in towne;
    Indeede, frend Ceneas, there you put me downe."

IN GALLUM. XXIV.

    Gallus hath been this summer-time in Friesland,
    And now, return'd, he speaks such warlike words,
    As, if I could their English understand,
    I fear me they would cut my throat like swords;
    He talks of counter-scarfs,[506] and casamates,[507]
    Of parapets, curtains, and palisadoes;[508]
    Of flankers, ravelins, gabions he prates,
    And of false-brays,[509] and sallies, and scaladoes.[510]
    But, to requite such gulling terms as these,
    With words to my profession I reply;                              10
    I tell of fourching, vouchers, and counterpleas,
    Of withernams, essoins, and champarty.
      So, neither of us understanding either,
      We part as wise as when we came together.

FOOTNOTES:

[506] Counter-scarps.

[507] Old eds. "Casomates."

[508] Old eds. "Of parapets, of curteneys, and pallizadois."--MS. "Of
parapelets, curtens and passadoes."--Cunningham prints "Of curtains,
parapets," &c.

[509] "A term in fortification, exactly from the French _fausse-braie_,
which means, say the dictionaries, a counter-breast-work, or, in fact, a
mound thrown up to mask some part of the works.

    'And made those strange approaches by false-brays,
    Reduits, half-moons, horn-works, and such close ways.'

_B. Jons. Underwoods._"--Nares.

[510] Dyce points out that this passage is imitated in Fitzgeoffrey's
_Notes from Black-Fryers_, Sig. E. 7, ed. 1620.

IN DECIUM.[511] XXV.

    Audacious painters have Nine Worthies made;
    But poet Decius, more audacious far,
    Making his mistress march with men of war,
    With title of "Tenth Worthy" doth her lade.
      Methinks that gull did use his terms as fit,
      Which term'd his love "a giant for her wit."

FOOTNOTES:

[511] In this epigram, as Dyce showed, Davies is glancing at a sonnet of
Drayton's "To the Celestiall Numbers" in _Idea_. Jonson told Drummond
that "S. J. Davies played in ane Epigrame on Draton's, who in a sonnet
concluded his mistress might been the Ninth [sic] Worthy; and said he
used a phrase like Dametas in Arcadia, who said, For wit his Mistresse
might be a Gyant."--_Notes of Ben Jonson's Conversations with Drummond_,
p. 15. (ed. Shakesp. Soc.)

IN GELLAM. XXVI.

    If Gella's beauty be examinËd,
    She hath a dull dead eye, a saddle nose,
    An ill-shap'd face, with morphew overspread,
    And rotten teeth, which she in laughing shows;
    Briefly, she is the filthiest wench in town,
    Of all that do the art of whoring use:
    But when she hath put on her satin gown,
    Her cut[512] lawn apron, and her velvet shoes,
    Her green silk stockings, and her petticoat
    Of taffeta, with golden fringe around,                            10
    And is withal perfum'd with civet hot,
    Which doth her valiant stinking breath confound,--
      Yet she with these additions is no more
      Than a sweet, filthy, fine, ill-favour'd whore.

FOOTNOTES:

[512] So MS.--Old eds. "out."

IN SYLLAM. XXVII.

    Sylla is often challeng'd to the field,
    To answer, like a gentleman, his foes:
    But then doth he this[513] only answer yield,
    That he hath livings and fair lands to lose.
      Sylla, if none but beggars valiant were,
      The king of Spain would put us all in fear.

FOOTNOTES:

[513] So Isham copy.--Ed. A "when doth he his."

IN SYLLAM. XXVIII.

    Who dares affirm that Sylla dare not fight?
    When I dare swear he dares adventure more
    Than the most brave and most[514] all-daring wight
    That ever arms with resolution bore;
    He that dare touch the most unwholesome whore
    That ever was retir'd into the spittle,
    And dares court wenches standing at a door
    (The portion of his wit being passing little);
    He that dares give his dearest friends offences,
    Which other valiant fools do fear to do,                          10
    And, when a fever doth confound his senses,
    Dare eat raw beef, and drink strong wine thereto:
    He that dares take tobacco on the stage,[515]
    Dares man a whore at noon-day through the street,
    Dares dance in Paul's, and in this formal age
    Dares say and do whatever is unmeet;
      Whom fear of shame could never yet affright,
      Who dares affirm that Sylla dares not fight?

FOOTNOTES:

[514] So Isham copy.--Ed. A "most brave, most all daring."--Eds. B, C
"most brave and all daring."--MS. "most valiant and all-daring."

[515] There are frequent allusions to this practice. Cf. Induction to
_Cynthia's Revels_:--"I have my three sorts of tobacco in my pocket; my
light by me."

IN HEYWODUM. XXIX.

    Heywood,[516] that did in epigrams excel,
    Is now put down since my light Muse arose;[517]
    As buckets are put down into a well,
    Or as a schoolboy putteth down his hose.

FOOTNOTES:

[516] John Heywood, the well-known epigrammatist and interlude-writer.
His Proverbs were edited in 1874, with a pleasantly-written Introduction
and useful notes, by Mr. Julian Sharman.

[517] Dyce refers to a passage of Sir John Harington's _Metamorphosis of
Ajax_, 1596:--"This Haywood for his proverbs and epigrams is not yet put
down by any of our country, though one [marginal note, M. Davies] doth
indeed come near him, that graces him the more in saying he puts him
down." He quotes also from Bastard's _Chrestoleros_, 1598 (Lib. ii. Ep.
15); Lib. iii. Ep. 3, and Freeman's _Rubbe and a Great Cast_ ( Pt. ii.,
Ep. 100), allusions to the present epigram.

IN DACUM.[518] XXX.

    Amongst the poets Dacus number'd is,
    Yet could he never make an English rhyme:
    But some prose speeches I have heard of his,
    Which have been spoken many a hundred time;
    The man that keeps the elephant hath one,
    Wherein he tells the wonders of the beast;
    Another Banks pronouncËd long agone,
    When he his curtal's[519] qualities express'd:
    He first taught him that keeps the monuments
    At Westminster, his formal tale to say,                           10
    And also him which puppets represents,
    And also him which with the ape doth play.
      Though all his poetry be like to this,
      Amongst the poets Dacus number'd is.

FOOTNOTES:

[518] Samuel Daniel. See Ep. xlv.

[519] All the information about Banks' wonderful horse Moroccus ("the
little horse that ambled on the top of Paul's") is collected in Mr.
Halliwell-Phillips' _Memoranda on Love's Labour Lost_.

IN PRISCUM. XXXI.

    When Priscus, rais'd from low to high estate,
    Rode through the street in pompous jollity,
    Caius, his poor familiar friend of late,
    Bespake him thus, "Sir, now you know not me,"
      "'Tis likely, friend," quoth Priscus, "to be so,
      For at this time myself I do not know."

IN BRUNUM. XXXII.

    Brunus, which deems[520] himself a fair sweet youth,
    Is nine and thirty[521] year of age at least;
    Yet was he never, to confess the truth,
    But a dry starveling when he was at best.
    This gull was sick to show his nightcap fine,
    And his wrought pillow overspread with lawn;
    But hath been well since his grief's cause hath line[522]
    At Trollop's by Saint Clement's Church in pawn.

FOOTNOTES:

[520] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy and ed. A "thinks."

[521] Old eds. "thirtie nine." MS. "nine and thirtith."

[522] Lain.

IN FRANCUM. XXXIII.

    When Francus comes to solace with his whore,
    He sends for rods, and strips himself stark naked;
    For his lust sleeps, and will not rise before,
    By whipping of the wench, it be awakËd.
      I envy him not, but wish I[523] had the power
      To make myself his wench but one half-hour.

FOOTNOTES:

[523] So Isham copy.--Ed. A "he."

IN CASTOREM. XXXIV.

    Of speaking well why do we learn the skill,
    Hoping thereby honour and wealth to gain?
    Sith railing Castor doth, by speaking ill,
    Opinion of much wit, and gold obtain.

IN SEPTIMIUM. XXXV.

    Septimius[524] lives, and is like garlic seen,
    For though his head be white, his blade is green.
    This old mad colt deserves a martyr's praise,
    For he was burnËd[525] in Queen Mary's days.

FOOTNOTES:

[524] So ed. B.--Isham copy, ed. A, and MS. "Septimus."

[525] "Burn" is often used with an indelicate _double entendre_. Cf.
_Lear_ iii. 2, "No heretics _burned_ but wenchers' suitors;" _Troilus
and Cressida_, v. 2, "A _burning_ devil take them."

OF TOBACCO. XXXVI.

    Homer of Moly and Nepenthe sings;
    Moly, the gods' most sovereign herb divine,
    Nepenthe, Helen's[526] drink, which gladness brings,
    Heart's grief expels, and doth the wit refine.
    But this our age another world hath found,
    From whence an herb of heavenly power is brought;
    Moly is not so sovereign for a wound,
    Nor hath nepenthe so great wonders wrought.
    It is tobacco, whose sweet subtle[527] fume
    The hellish torment of the teeth doth ease,                       10
    By drawing down and drying up the rheum,
    The mother and the nurse of each disease;
    It is tobacco, which doth cold expel,
    And clears th' obstructions of the arteries,
    And surfeits threatening death digesteth well,
    Decocting all the stomach's crudities;[528]
    It is tobacco, which hath power to clarify
    The cloudy mists before dim eyes appearing;
    It is tobacco, which hath power to rarify
    The thick gross humour which doth stop the hearing;               20
    The wasting hectic, and the quartan fever,
    Which doth of physic make a mockery,
    The gout it cures, and helps ill breaths for ever,
    Whether the cause in teeth or stomach be;
    And though ill breaths were by it but confounded,
    Yet that vild[529] medicine it doth far excel,
    Which by Sir Thomas More[530] hath been propounded,
    For this is thought a gentleman-like smell.
    O, that I were one of these mountebanks
    Which praise their oils and powders which they sell!              30
    My customers would give me coin with thanks;
    I for this ware, forsooth,[531] a tale would tell:
    Yet would I use none of these terms before;
    I would but say, that it the pox will cure;
    This were enough, without discoursing more,
    All our brave gallants in the town t'allure.

FOOTNOTES:

[526] Isham copy, "Heuens;" and eds. B, C "Heauens."--MS.
"helevs."--Davies alludes to _Odyssey_ iv., 219, &c.

[527] So MS.--Old eds. "substantiall."

[528] We are reminded of Bobadil's encomium of tobacco:--"I could say
what I know of the virtue of it, for the expulsion of rheums, raw
humours, crudities, obstructions, with a thousand of this kind; but I
profess myself no quacksalver. Only this much: by Hercules I do hold it
and will affirm it before any prince in Europe to be the most sovereign
and precious weed that ever the earth tendered to the use of man."

[529] So MS.--Not in old eds.

[530] Dyce quotes from More's _Lucubrationes_ (ed. 1563, p. 261), an
epigram headed "MedicinÊ ad tollendos foetores anhelitus, provenientes
a cibis quibusdam."

[531] So eds. A, B, C.--Isham copy "so smooth."--MS. "so faire."

IN CRASSUM. XXXVII.

    Crassus his lies are no[532] pernicious lies,
    But pleasant fictions, hurtful unto none
    But to himself; for no man counts him wise
    To tell for truth that which for false is known.
    He swears that Gaunt[533] is three-score miles about,
    And that the bridge at Paris[534] on the Seine
    Is of such thickness, length, and breadth throughout,
    That six-score arches can it scarce sustain;
    He swears he saw so great a dead man's skull
    At Canterbury digg'd out of the ground,                           10
    As[535] would contain of wheat three bushels full;
    And that in Kent are twenty yeomen found,
    Of which the poorest every year[536] dispends
    Five thousand pound: these and five thousand mo
    So oft he hath recited to his friends,
    That now himself persuades himself 'tis so.
    But why doth Crassus tell his lies so rife,
    Of bridges, towns, and things that have no life?
      He is a lawyer, and doth well espy
      That for such lies an action will not lie.                      20

FOOTNOTES:

[532] So MS.--Eds. "not."

[533] Ghent.

[534] The reference probably is to the Pont Neuf, begun by Henry III.
and finished by Henry IV.

[535] So MS.--Old eds. "That."

[536] MS. "day!"

IN PHILONEM. XXXVIII.

    Philo, the lawyer,[537] and the fortune-teller,
    The school-master, the midwife,[538] and the bawd,
    The conjurer, the buyer and the seller
    Of painting which with breathing will be thaw'd,
    Doth practise physic; and his credit grows,
    As doth the ballad-singer's auditory,
    Which hath at Temple-Bar his standing chose,
    And to the vulgar sings an ale-house story:
    First stands a porter; then an oyster-wife
    Doth stint her cry and stay her steps to hear him;                10
    Then comes a cutpurse ready with his[539] knife,
    And then a country client presseth[540] near him;
    There stands the constable, there stands the whore,
    And, hearkening[541] to the song, mark[542] not each other;
    There by the serjeant stands the debitor,[543]
    And doth no more mistrust him than his brother:
    This[544] Orpheus to such hearers giveth music,
    And Philo to such patients giveth physic.

FOOTNOTES:

[537] Isham copy and MS. "gentleman."

[538] MS. "widdow."

[539] So Isham copy and MS.--Other eds. "a."

[540] So Isham copy.--Other eds. "passeth."--MS. "presses."

[541] So Isham copy, ed. A, and MS.--Eds. B, C "listening."

[542] So Isham copy, ed. A, and MS.--Eds. B, C "heed."

[543] So eds. B, C.--Isham copy, MS., and ed. A, "debtor poor."--With
the foregoing description of the "ballad-singer's auditory" compare
Wordsworth's lines _On the power of Music_, and Vincent Bourne's
charming Latin verses (entitled _Cantatrices_) on the Ballad Singers of
the Seven Dials.

[544] So MS.--Eds. "Thus."

IN FUSCUM. XXXIX.

    Fuscus is free, and hath the world at will;
    Yet, in the course of life that he doth lead,
    He's like a horse which, turning round a mill,
    Doth always in the self-same circle tread:
    First, he doth rise at ten;[545] and at eleven
    He goes to Gill's, where he doth eat till one;
    Then sees a play till six;[546] and sups at seven;
    And, after supper, straight to bed is gone;
    And there till ten next day he doth remain;
    And then he dines; then sees a comedy;                            10
    And then he sups, and goes to bed again:
    Thus round he runs without variety,
      Save that sometimes he comes not to the play,
      But falls into a whore-house by the way.

FOOTNOTES:

[545] Cf. a somewhat similar description in Guilpin's _Skialetheia_ (Ep.
25):--

    "My lord most court-like lies abed till noon,
    Then all high-stomacht riseth to his dinner;
    Falls straight to dice before his meat be down,
    Or to digest walks to some female sinner;
    Perhaps fore-tired he gets him to a play,
    Comes home to supper and then falls to dice;
    Then his devotion wakes till it be day,
    And so to bed where unto noon he lies."

[546] If the play ended at six, it could hardly have begun before three.
From numerous passages it appears that performances frequently began at
three, or even later. Probably the curtain rose at one in the winter and
three in the summer.

IN AFRUM. XL.

    The smell-feast[547] Afer travels to the Burse
    Twice every day, the flying news to hear;
    Which, when he hath no money in his purse,
    To rich men's tables he doth ever[548] bear.
    He tells how Groni[n]gen[549] is taken in[550]
    By the brave conduct of illustrious Vere,
    And how the Spanish forces Brest would win,
    But that they do victorious Norris[551] fear.
    No sooner is a ship at sea surpris'd,
    But straight he learns the news, and doth disclose it;
    No[552] sooner hath the Turk a plot devis'd
    To conquer Christendom, but straight he knows it.
    Fair-written in a scroll he hath the names
    Of all the widows which the plague hath made;
    And persons, times, and places, still he frames
    To every tale, the better to persuade.
    We call him Fame, for that the wide-mouth slave
    Will eat as fast as he will utter lies;                           20
    For fame is said an hundred mouths to have,
    And he eats more than would five-score suffice.

FOOTNOTES:

[547] This word is found in Chapman, Harrington, and others.

[548] So MS.--Old eds. "often."

[549] Groningen was taken by Maurice of Nassau. Vere was present at the
siege.

[550] The expression "take in" (in the sense of "conquer, capture") is
very common.

[551] An English expedition, under Sir John Norris, was sent to Brittany
in 1594.

[552] This line and the next are found only in Isham copy and MS.

IN PAULUM. XLI.

    By lawful mart, and by unlawful stealth,
    Paulus, in spite of envy, fortunate,
    Derives out of the ocean so much wealth,
    As he may well maintain a lord's estate:
      But on the land a little gulf there is,
      Wherein he drowneth all this[553] wealth of his.

FOOTNOTES:

[553] So Isham copy--Eds. A, B, C "the."--MS. "ye."

IN LYCUM. XLII.

    Lycus, which lately is to Venice gone,
    Shall, if he do return, gain three for one;[554]
    But, ten to one, his knowledge and his wit
    Will not be better'd or increas'd a whit.

FOOTNOTES:

[554] When a person started on a long or dangerous voyage it was
customary to deposit--or, as it was called, "put out"--a sum of money,
on condition of receiving at his return a high rate of interest. If he
failed to return the money was lost. There are frequent allusions in old
authors to this practice.

IN PUBLIUM. XLIII.

    Publius, a[555] student at the Common-Law,
    Oft leaves his books, and, for his recreation,
    To Paris-garden[556] doth himself withdraw;
    Where he is ravish'd with such delectation,
    As down amongst the bears and dogs he goes;
    Where, whilst he skipping cries, "To head, to head,"[557]
    His satin doublet and his velvet hose
    Are all with spittle from above be-spread;
    Then is he like his father's country hall,
    Stinking of dogs, and muted[558] all with hawks;                  10
    And rightly too on him this filth doth fall,
    Which for such filthy sports his books forsakes,
      Leaving old Ployden, Dyer, and Brooke alone,
      To see old Harry Hunkes and Sacarson.[559]

FOOTNOTES:

[555] So MS.--Not in old eds.

[556] The Bear-Garden in the Bankside, Southwark.

[557] In _Titus Andronicus_, v. 1, we have the expression "to fight at
head" ("As true a dog as ever fought _at head_"). "To fly at the head"
was equivalent to "attack;" and in Nares' _Glossary_ (ed. Halliwell) the
expression "run on head," in the sense of incite, is quoted from
Heywood's _Spider and Flie_, 1556.

[558] Covered with hawks' dung.

[559] "Harry Hunkes" and "Sacarson" were the names of two famous bears
(probably named after their keepers). Slender boasted to Anne Page, "I
have seen Sackarson loose twenty times and have taken him by the chain."

IN SYLLAM. XLIV.

    When I this proposition had defended,
    "A coward cannot be an honest man,"
    Thou, Sylla, seem'st forthwith to be offended,
    And hold'st[560] the contrary, and swear'st[561] he can.
    But when I tell thee that he will forsake
    His dearest friend in peril of his life,
    Thou then art chang'd, and say'st thou didst mistake;
    And so we end our argument and strife:
      Yet I think oft, and think I think aright,
      Thy argument argues thou wilt not fight.                        10

FOOTNOTES:

[560] So MS.--Old eds. "holds."

[561] So MS.--Old eds. "swears."

IN DACUM. XLV.

    Dacus,[562] with some good colour and pretence,
    Terms his love's beauty "silent eloquence;"
    For she doth lay more colours on her face
    Than ever Tully us'd his speech to grace.

FOOTNOTES:

[562] Dyce shows that Samuel Daniel is meant by Dacus (who has already
been ridiculed in _Ep._ xxx.). In Daniel's _Complaint of Rosamond_
(1592) are the lines:--

    "Ah, beauty, syren, faire enchanting good,
    Sweet _silent rhetorique_ of perswading eyes,
    _Dumb eloquence_, whose power doth move the blood
    More than the words or wisedome of the wise," &c.

Perhaps there is an allusion to this epigram in Marston's fourth
satire:--

    "What, shall not Rosamond or Gaveston
    Ope their sweet lips without detraction?
    But must our modern critticks envious eye
    Seeme thus to quote some grosse deformity,
    Where art not error shineth in their stile,
    But error and no art doth thee beguile?"

IN MARCUM. XLVI.

    Why dost thou, Marcus, in thy misery
    Rail and blaspheme, and call the heavens unkind?
    The heavens do owe[563] no kindness unto thee,
    Thou hast the heavens so little in thy mind;
      For in thy life thou never usest prayer
      But at primero, to encounter fair.

FOOTNOTES:

[563] So eds. B, C.--Ed. A "draw" (Epigram xlv.-xlviii. are not in the
MS.)

MEDITATIONS OF A GULL. XLVII.

    See, yonder melancholy gentleman,
    Which, hood-wink'd with his hat, alone doth sit!
    Think what he thinks, and tell me, if you can,
    What great affairs trouble his little wit.
    He thinks not of the war 'twixt France and Spain,[564]
    Whether it be for Europe's good or ill,
    Nor whether the Empire can itself maintain
    Against the Turkish power encroaching still;[565]
    Nor what great town in all the Netherlands
    The States determine to besiege this spring,                      10
    Nor how the Scottish policy now stands,
    Nor what becomes of the Irish mutining.[566]
    But he doth seriously bethink him whether
    Of the gull'd people he be more esteem'd
    For his long cloak or for[567] his great black feather
    By which each gull is now a gallant deem'd;
    Or of a journey he deliberates
    To Paris-garden, Cock-pit, or the play;
    Or how to steal a dog he meditates,
    Or what he shall unto his mistress say.
      Yet with these thoughts he thinks himself most fit
      To be of counsel with a king for wit.

FOOTNOTES:

[564] Ended in 1598 by the peace of Vervins.

[565] The war between Austria and Turkey was brought to a close in 1606.

[566] A reference to Tyrone's insurrection, 1595-1602.

[567] So Isham copy.--Not in other eds.

AD MUSAM. XLVIII.

    Peace, idle Muse, have done! for it is time,
    Since lousy Ponticus envies my fame,
    And swears the better sort are much to blame
    To make me so well known for my ill rhyme.
    Yet Banks his horse[568] is better known than he;
    So are the camels and the western hog,
    And so is Lepidus his printed dog[569]:
    Why doth not Ponticus their fames envy?
    Besides, this Muse of mine and the black feather
    Grew both together fresh in estimation;                           10
    And both, grown stale, were cast away together:
    What fame is this that scarce lasts out a fashion?
    Only this last in credit doth remain,
    That from henceforth each bastard cast-forth rhyme,
    Which doth but savour of a libel vein,
    Shall call me father, and be thought my crime;
      So dull, and with so little sense endued,
      Is my gross-headed judge the multitude.

J. D.

FOOTNOTES:

[568] See note, p. 232.

[569] Dyce points out that by Lepidus is meant Sir John Harington, whose
dog Bungey is represented in a compartment of the engraved title-page of
the translation of _Orlando Furioso_, 1591. In his epigrams (Book III.
Ep. 21) Harington refers to this epigram of Davies, and expresses
himself greatly pleased at the compliment paid to his dog.

IGNOTO.

    I[570] love thee not for sacred chastity,--
    Who loves for that?--nor for thy sprightly wit;
    I love thee not for thy sweet modesty,
    Which makes thee in perfection's throne to sit;
    I love thee not for thy enchanting eye,
    Thy beauty['s] ravishing perfection;
    I love thee not for unchaste luxury,
    Nor for thy body's fair proportion;
    I love thee not for that my soul doth dance
    And leap with pleasure, when those lips of thine
    Give musical and graceful utterance
    To some (by thee made happy) poet's line;
    I love thee not for voice or slender small:
    But wilt thou know wherefore? fair sweet, for all.

    Faith, wench, I cannot court thy sprightly eyes,
    With the base-viol plac'd between my thighs;
    I cannot lisp, nor to some fiddle sing,
    Nor run upon a high-stretch'd minikin;
    I cannot whine in puling elegies,
    Entombing Cupid with sad obsequies;
    I am not fashion'd for these amorous times,
    To court thy beauty with lascivious rhymes;
    I cannot dally, caper, dance, and sing,
    Oiling my saint with supple sonneting;
    I cannot cross my arms, or sigh "Ay me,
    Ay me, forlorn!" egregious foppery!
    I cannot buss thy fist,[571] play with thy hair,
    Swearing by Jove, "thou art most debonair!"
    Not I, by cock! but [I] shall tell thee roundly,--
    Hark in thine ear,--zounds, I can (----) thee soundly.

    Sweet wench, I love thee: yet I will not sue,
    Or show my love as musky courtiers do;
    I'll not carouse a health to honour thee,
    In this same bezzling[572] drunken courtesy,
    And, when all's quaff'd, eat up my bousing-glass[573]
    In glory that I am thy servile ass;
    Nor will I wear a rotten Bourbon lock,[574]
    As some sworn peasant to a female smock.
    Well-featur'd lass, thou know'st I love thee dear:
    Yet for thy sake I will not bore mine ear,
    To hang thy dirty silken shoe-tires there;
    Nor for thy love will I once gnash a brick,
    Or some pied colours in my bonnet stick:[575]
    But, by the chaps of hell, to do thee good,
    I'll freely spend my thrice-decocted blood.

FOOTNOTES:

[570] This sonnet and the two following pieces are only found in Isham
copy and ed. A.

[571] So Isham copy.--Ed. A "fill."

[572] Tippling.

[573] "Bouse" was a cant term for "drink."

[574] See note v. p. 226.

[575] It was a common practice for gallants to wear their mistresses'
garters in their hats.

THE FIRST BOOK OF LUCAN.

_Lucans First Booke Translated Line for Line, By Chr. Marlow. At London,
Printed by P. Short, and are to be sold by Walter Burre at the Signe of
the Flower de Luce in Paules Churchyard_, 1600, 4_to._

This is the only early edition. The title-page of the 1600 4to. of _Hero
and Leander_ has the words, "Whereunto is added the first booke of
Lucan;" but the two pieces are not found in conjunction.

TO HIS KIND AND TRUE FRIEND, EDWARD BLUNT.[576]

Blunt,[577] I propose to be blunt with you, and, out of my dulness, to
encounter you with a Dedication in memory of that pure elemental wit,
Chr. Marlowe, whose ghost or genius is to be seen walk the
Churchyard,[578] in, at the least, three or four sheets. Methinks you
should presently look wild now, and grow humorously frantic upon the
taste of it. Well, lest you should, let me tell you, this spirit was
sometime a familiar of your own, _Lucan's First Book translated_; which,
in regard of your old right in it, I have raised in the circle of your
patronage. But stay now, Edward: if I mistake not, you are to
accommodate yourself with some few instructions, touching the property
of a patron, that you are not yet possessed of; and to study them for
your better grace, as our gallants do fashions. First, you must be
proud, and think you have merit enough in you, though you are ne'er so
empty; then, when I bring you the book, take physic, and keep state;
assign me a time by your man to come again; and, afore the day, be sure
to have changed your lodging; in the meantime sleep little, and sweat
with the invention of some pitiful dry jest or two, which you may happen
to utter with some little, or not at all, marking of your friends, when
you have found a place for them to come in at; or, if by chance
something has dropped from you worth the taking up, weary all that come
to you with the often repetition of it; censure, scornfully enough, and
somewhat like a traveller; commend nothing, lest you discredit your
(that which you would seem to have) judgment. These things, if you can
mould yourself to them, Ned, I make no question that they will not
become you. One special virtue in our patrons of these days I have
promised myself you shall fit excellently, which is, to give nothing;
yes, thy love I will challenge as my peculiar object, both in this, and,
I hope, many more succeeding offices. Farewell: I affect not the world
should measure my thoughts to thee by a scale of this nature: leave to
think good of me when I fall from thee.

Thine in all rights of perfect friendship,

                                   THOMAS THORPE.

FOOTNOTES:

[576] A well-known bookseller.

[577] Old ed. "Blount."

[578] Paul's churchyard, the Elizabethan "Booksellers' Row."

THE FIRST BOOK OF LUCAN.

    Wars worse than civil on Thessalian plains,
    And outrage strangling law, and people strong,
    We sing, whose conquering swords their own breasts lancht,[579]
    Armies allied, the kingdom's league uprooted,
    Th' affrighted world's force bent on public spoil,
    Trumpets and drums, like[580] deadly, threatening other,
    Eagles alike display'd, darts answering darts,
      Romans, what madness, what huge lust of war,
    Hath made barbarians drunk with Latin blood?
    Now Babylon, proud through our spoil, should stoop,               10
    While slaughter'd Crassus' ghost walks unreveng'd,
    Will ye wage war, for which you shall not triumph?
    Ay me! O, what a world of land and sea
    Might they have won whom civil broils have slain!
    As far as Titan springs, where night dims heaven,
    I, to the torrid zone where mid-day burns,
    And where stiff winter, whom no spring resolves,
    Fetters the Euxine Sea with chains of ice;
    Scythia and wild Armenia had been yok'd,
    And they of Nilus' mouth, if there live any.                      20
    Rome, if thou take delight in impious war,
    First conquer all the earth, then turn thy force
    Against thyself: as yet thou wants not foes.
    That now the walls of houses half-reared totter,
    That, rampires fallen down, huge heaps of stone
    Lie in our towns, that houses are abandon'd,
    And few live that behold their ancient seats;
    Italy many years hath lien untill'd
    And chok'd with thorns; that greedy earth wants hinds;--
    Fierce Pyrrhus, neither thou nor Hannibal                         30
    Art cause; no foreign foe could so afflict us:
    These plagues arise from wreak of civil power.
    But if for Nero, then unborn, the Fates
    Would find no other means, and gods not slightly
    Purchase immortal thrones, nor Jove joy'd heaven
    Until the cruel giants' war was done;
    We plain not, heavens, but gladly bear these evils
    For Nero's sake: Pharsalia groan with slaughter,
    And Carthage souls be glutted with our bloods!
    At Munda let the dreadful battles join;                           40
    Add, CÊsar, to these ills, Perusian famine,
    The Mutin toils, the fleet at Luca[s] sunk,
    And cruel[581] field near burning ∆tna fought!
    Yet Rome is much bound to these civil arms,
    Which made thee emperor. Thee (seeing thou, being old,
    Must shine a star) shall heaven (whom thou lovest)
    Receive with shouts; where thou wilt reign as king,
    Or mount the Sun's flame-bearing chariot,
    And with bright restless fire compass the earth,
    Undaunted though her former guide be chang'd;                     50
    Nature and every power shall give thee place,
    What god it please thee be, or where to sway.
    But neither choose the north t'erect thy seat,
    Nor yet the adverse reeking[582] southern pole,
    Whence thou shouldst view thy Rome with squinting[583] beams.
    If any one part of vast heaven thou swayest,
    The burden'd axes[584] with thy force will bend:
    The midst is best; that place is pure and bright;
    There, CÊsar, mayst thou shine, and no cloud dim thee.
    Then men from war shall bide in league and ease,                  60
    Peace through the world from Janus' face shall fly,
    And bolt the brazen gates with bars of iron.
    Thou, CÊsar, at this instant art my god;
    Thee if I invocate, I shall not need
    To crave Apollo's aid or Bacchus' help;
    Thy power inspires the Muse that sings this war.
      The causes first I purpose to unfold
    Of these garboils,[585] whence springs a long discourse;
    And what made madding people shake off peace.
    The Fates are envious, high seats[586] quickly perish,            70
    Under great burdens falls are ever grievous;
    Rome was so great it could not bear itself.
    So when this world's compounded union breaks,
    Time ends, and to old Chaos all things turn,
    Confused stars shall meet, celestial fire
    Fleet on the floods, the earth shoulder the sea,
    Affording it no shore, and Phoebe's wain
    Chase Phoebus, and enrag'd affect his place,
    And strive to shine by day and full of strife
    Dissolve the engines of the broken world.                         80
    All great things crush themselves; such end the gods
    Allot the height of honour; men so strong
    By land and sea, no foreign force could ruin.
    O Rome, thyself art cause of all these evils,
    Thyself thus shiver'd out to three men's shares!
    Dire league of partners in a kingdom last not.
    O faintly-join'd friends, with ambition blind,
    Why join you force to share the world betwixt you?
    While th' earth the sea, and air the earth sustains,
    While Titan strives against the world's swift course,             90
    Or Cynthia, night's queen, waits upon the day,
    Shall never faith be found in fellow kings:
    Dominion cannot suffer partnership.
    This need[s] no foreign proof nor far-fet[587] story:
    Rome's infant walls were steep'd in brother's blood;
    Nor then was land or sea, to breed such hate;
    A town with one poor church set them at odds.[588]
      CÊsar's and Pompey's jarring love soon ended,
    'Twas peace against their wills; betwixt them both
    Stepp'd Crassus in. Even as the slender isthmos,                 100
    Betwixt the ∆gÊan,[589] and the Ionian sea,
    Keeps each from other, but being worn away,
    They both burst out, and each encounter other;
    So whenas Crassus' wretched death, who stay'd them,
    Had fill'd Assyrian Carra's[590] walls with blood,
    His loss made way for Roman outrages.
    Parthians, y'afflict us more than ye suppose;
    Being conquer'd, we are plagu'd with civil war.
    Swords share our empire: Fortune, that made Rome
    Govern the earth, the sea, the world itself,                     110
    Would not admit two lords; for Julia,
    Snatch'd hence by cruel Fates, with ominous howls
    Bare down to hell her son, the pledge of peace,
    And all bands of that death-presaging alli‡nce.
    Julia, had heaven given thee longer life,
    Thou hadst restrain'd thy headstrong husband's rage,
    Yea, and thy father too, and, swords thrown down,
    Made all shake hands, as once the Sabines did:
    Thy death broke amity, and train'd to war
    These captains emulous of each other's glory.                    120
    Thou fear'd'st, great Pompey, that late deeds would dim
    Old triumphs, and that CÊsar's conquering France
    Would dash the wreath thou war'st for pirates' wreck:
    Thee war's use stirr'd, and thoughts that always scorn'd
    A second place. Pompey could bide no equal,
    Nor CÊsar no superior: which of both
    Had justest cause, unlawful 'tis to judge:
    Each side had great partakers; CÊsar's cause
    The gods abetted, Cato lik'd the other.[591]
    Both differ'd much. Pompey was struck in years,                  130
    And by long rest forgot to manage arms,
    And, being popular, sought by liberal gifts
    To gain the light unstable commons' love,
    And joy'd to hear his theatre's applause:
    He lived secure, boasting his former deeds,
    And thought his name sufficient to uphold him:
    Like to a tall oak in a fruitful field,
    Bearing old spoils and conquerors' monuments,
    Who, though his root be weak, and his own weight
    Keep him within the ground, his arms all bare,                   140
    His body, not his boughs, send forth a shade;
    Though every blast it nod,[592] and seem to fall,
    When all the woods about stand bolt upright,
    Yet he alone is held in reverence.
    CÊsar's renown for war was loss; he restless,
    Shaming to strive but where he did subdue;
    When ire or hope provok'd, heady and bold;
    At all times charging home, and making havoc;
    Urging his fortune, trusting in the gods,
    Destroying what withstood his proud desires,                     150
    And glad when blood and ruin made him way:
    So thunder, which the wind tears from the clouds,
    With crack of riven air and hideous sound
    Filling the world, leaps out and throws forth fire,
    Affrights poor fearful men, and blasts their eyes
    With overthwarting flames, and raging shoots
    Alongst the air, and, not resisting it,
    Falls, and returns, and shivers where it lights.
    Such humours stirr'd them up; but this war's seed
    Was even the same that wrecks all great dominions.               160
    When Fortune made us lords of all, wealth flow'd,
    And then we grew licentious and rude;
    The soldiers' prey and rapine brought in riot;
    Men took delight in jewels, houses, plate,
    And scorn'd old sparing diet, and ware robes
    Too light for women; Poverty, who hatch'd
    Rome's greatest wits,[593] was loath'd, and all the world
    Ransack'd for gold, which breeds the world['s] decay;
    And then large limits had their butting lands;
    The ground, which Curius and Camillus till'd,                    170
    Was stretched unto the fields of hinds unknown.
    Again, this people could not brook calm peace;
    Them freedom without war might not suffice:
    Quarrels were rife; greedy desire, still poor,
    Did vild deeds; then 'twas worth the price of blood,
    And deem'd renown, to spoil their native town;
    Force mastered right, the strongest govern'd all;
    Hence came it that th' edicts were over-rul'd,
    That laws were broke, tribunes with consuls strove,
    Sale made of offices, and people's voices                        180
    Bought by themselves and sold, and every year
    Frauds and corruption in the Field of Mars;
    Hence interest and devouring usury sprang,
    Faith's breach, and hence came war, to most men welcome.
    Now CÊsar overpass'd the snowy Alps;
    His mind was troubled, and he aim'd at war:
    And coming to the ford of Rubicon,
    At night in dreadful vision fearful[594] Rome
    Mourning appear'd, whose hoary hairs were torn,
    And on her turret-bearing head dispers'd,                        190
    And arms all naked; who, with broken sighs,
    And staring, thus bespoke: "What mean'st thou, CÊsar?
    Whither goes my standard? Romans if ye be,
    And bear true hearts, stay here!" This spectacle
    Struck CÊsar's heart with fear; his hair stood up,
    And faintness numb'd his steps there on the brink.
    He thus cried out: "Thou thunderer that guard'st
    Rome's mighty walls, built on Tarpeian rock!
    Ye gods of Phrygia and Ilus' line,
    Quirinus' rites, and Latian Jove advanc'd                        200
    On Alba hill! O vestal flames! O Rome,
    My thoughts sole goddess, aid mine enterprise!
    I hate thee not, to thee my conquests stoop:
    CÊsar is thine, so please it thee, thy soldier.
    He, he afflicts Rome that made me Rome's foe."
    This said, he, laying aside all lets[595] of war,
    Approach'd the swelling stream with drum and ensign:
    Like to a lion of scorch'd desert Afric,
    Who, seeing hunters, pauseth till fell wrath
    And kingly rage increase, then, having whisk'd                   210
    His tail athwart his back, and crest heav'd up,
    With jaws wide-open ghastly roaring out,
    Albeit the Moor's light javelin or his spear
    Sticks in his side, yet runs upon the hunter.
      In summer-time the purple Rubicon,
    Which issues from a small spring, is but shallow,
    And creeps along the vales, dividing just
    The bounds of Italy from Cisalpine France.
    But now the winter's wrath, and watery moon
    Being three days old, enforc'd the flood to swell,               220
    And frozen Alps thaw'd with resolving winds.
    The thunder-hoof'd[596] horse, in a crookËd line,
    To scape the violence of the stream, first waded;
    Which being broke, the foot had easy passage.
    As soon as CÊsar got unto the bank
    And bounds of Italy, "Here, here," saith he,
    "An end of peace; here end polluted laws!
    Hence leagues and covenants! Fortune, thee I follow!
    War and the Destinies shall try my cause."
    This said, the restless general through the dark,                230
    Swifter than bullets thrown from Spanish slings,
    Or darts which Parthians backward shoot, march'd on;
    And then, when Lucifer did shine alone,
    And some dim stars, he Ariminum enter'd.
    Day rose, and view'd these tumults of the war:
    Whether the gods or blustering south were cause
    I know not, but the cloudy air did frown.
    The soldiers having won the market-place,
    There spread the colours with confusËd noise
    Of trumpets' clang, shrill cornets, whistling fifes.             240
    The people started; young men left their beds,
    And snatch'd arms near their household-gods hung up,
    Such as peace yields; worm-eaten leathern targets,
    Through which the wood peer'd,[597] headless darts, old swords
    With ugly teeth of black rust foully scarr'd.
    But seeing white eagles, and Rome's flags well known,
    And lofty CÊsar in the thickest throng,
    They shook for fear, and cold benumb'd their limbs,
    And muttering much, thus to themselves complain'd:
    "O walls unfortunate, too near to France!                        250
    Predestinate to ruin! all lands else
    Have stable peace: here war's rage first begins;
    We bide the first brunt. Safer might we dwell
    Under the frosty bear, or parching east,
    Waggons or tents, than in this frontier town.
    We first sustain'd the uproars of the Gauls
    And furious Cimbrians, and of Carthage Moors:
    As oft as Rome was sack'd, here gan the spoil."
    Thus sighing whisper'd they, and none durst speak,
    And show their fear or grief; but as the fields                  260
    When birds are silent thorough winter's rage,
    Or sea far from the land, so all were whist,[598]
    Now light had quite dissolv'd the misty night,
    And CÊsar's mind unsettled musing stood;
    But gods and fortune pricked him to this war,
    Infringing all excuse of modest shame,
    And labouring to approve[599] his quarrel good.
    The angry senate, urging Gracchus'[600] deeds,
    From doubtful Rome wrongly expell'd the tribunes
    That cross'd them: both which now approach'd the camp,           270
    And with them Curio, sometime tribune too,
    One that was fee'd for CÊsar, and whose tongue
    Could tune the people to the nobles' mind.[601]
    "CÊsar," said he, "while eloquence prevail'd,
    And I might plead and draw the commons' minds
    To favour thee, against the senate's will,
    Five years I lengthen'd thy command in France;
    But law being put to silence by the wars,
    We, from her houses driven, most willingly
    Suffer'd exile: let thy sword bring us home,                     280
    Now, while their part is weak and fears, march hence:
    Where men are ready lingering ever hurts.[602]
    In ten years wonn'st thou France: Rome may be won
    With far less toil, and yet the honour's more;
    Few battles fought with prosperous success
    May bring her down, and with her all the world.
    Nor shalt thou triumph when thou com'st to Rome,
    Nor Capitol be adorn'd with sacred bays;
    Envy denies all; with thy blood must thou
    Aby thy conquest past:[603] the son decrees                      290
    To expel the father: share the world thou canst not;
    Enjoy it all thou mayst." Thus Curio spake;
    And therewith CÊsar, prone enough to war,
    Was so incens'd as are Elean[604] steeds.
    With clamours, who, though lock'd and chain'd in stalls,[605]
    Souse[606] down the walls, and make a passage forth.
    Straight summon'd he his several companies
    Unto the standard: his grave look appeas'd
    The wrestling tumult, and right hand made silence;
    And thus he spake: "You that with me have borne                  300
    A thousand brunts, and tried me full ten years,
    See how they quit our bloodshed in the north,
    Our friends' death, and our wounds, our wintering
    Under the Alps! Rome rageth now in arms
    As if the Carthage Hannibal were near;
    Cornets of horse are muster'd for the field;
    Woods turn'd to ships; both land and sea against us.
    Had foreign wars ill-thriv'd, or wrathful France
    Pursu'd us hither, how were we bested,
    When, coming conqueror, Rome afflicts me thus?                   310
    Let come their leader[607] whom long peace hath quail'd,
    Raw soldiers lately press'd, and troops of gowns,
    Babbling[608] Marcellus, Cato whom fools reverence!
    Must Pompey's followers, with strangers' aid
    (Whom from his youth he brib'd), needs make him king?
    And shall he triumph long before his time,
    And, having once got head, still shall he reign?
    What should I talk of men's corn reap'd by force,
    And by him kept of purpose for a dearth?
    Who sees not war sit by the quivering judge,                     320
    And sentence given in rings of naked swords,
    And laws assail'd, and arm'd men in the senate?
    'Twas his troop hemm'd in Milo being accus'd;
    And now, lest age might wane his state, he casts
    For civil war, wherein through use he's known
    To exceed his master, that arch-traitor Sylla.
    A[s] brood of barbarous tigers, having lapp'd
    The blood of many a herd, whilst with their dams
    They kennell'd in Hyrcania, evermore
    Will rage and prey; so, Pompey, thou, having lick'd              330
    Warm gore from Sylla's sword, art yet athirst:
    Jaws flesh[ed] with blood continue murderous.
    Speak, when shall this thy long-usurped power end?
    What end of mischief? Sylla teaching thee,
    At last learn, wretch, to leave thy monarchy!
    What, now Sicilian[609] pirates are suppress'd,
    And jaded[610] king of Pontus poison'd slain,
    Must Pompey as his last foe plume on me,
    Because at his command I wound not up
    My conquering eagles? say I merit naught,[611]                   340
    Yet, for long service done, reward these men,
    And so they triumph, be't with whom ye will.
    Whither now shall these old bloodless souls repair?
    What seats for their deserts? what store of ground
    For servitors to till? what colonies
    To rest their bones? say, Pompey, are these worse
    Than pirates of Sicilia?[612] they had houses.
    Spread, spread these flags that ten years' space have conquer'd!
    Let's use our tried force: they that now thwart right,
    In wars will yield to wrong:[613] the gods are with us;          350
    Neither spoil nor kingdom seek we by these arms,
    But Rome, at thraldom's feet, to rid from tyrants."
    This spoke, none answer'd, but a murmuring buzz
    Th' unstable people made: their household-gods
    And love to Rome (though slaughter steel'd their hearts,
    And minds were prone) restrain'd them; but war's love
    And CÊsar's awe dash'd all. Then LÊlius,[614]
    The chief centurion, crown'd with oaken leaves
    For saving of a Roman citizen,
    Stepp'd forth, and cried: "Chief leader of Rome's force,
    So be I may be bold to speak a truth,                            361
    We grieve at this thy patience and delay.
    What, doubt'st thou us? even now when youthful blood
    Pricks forth our lively bodies, and strong arms
    Can mainly throw the dart, wilt thou endure
    These purple grooms, that senate's tyranny?
    Is conquest got by civil war so heinous?
    Well, lead us, then, to Syrtes' desert shore,
    Or Scythia, or hot Libya's thirsty sands.
    This band, that all behind us might be quail'd,                  370
    Hath with thee pass'd the swelling ocean,
    And swept the foaming breast of Arctic[615] Rhene.
    Love over-rules my will; I must obey thee,
    CÊsar: he whom I hear thy trumpets charge,
    I hold no Roman; by these ten blest ensigns
    And all thy several triumphs, shouldst thou bid me
    Entomb my sword within my brother's bowels,
    Or father's throat, or women's groaning[616] womb,
    This hand, albeit unwilling, should perform it?
    Or rob the gods, or sacred temples fire,                         380
    These troops should soon pull down the church of Jove;[617]
    If to encamp on Tuscan Tiber's streams,
    I'll boldly quarter out the fields of Rome;
    What walls thou wilt be levell'd with the ground,
    These hands shall thrust the ram, and make them fly,
    Albeit the city thou wouldst have so raz'd
    Be Rome itself." Here every band applauded,
    And, with their hands held up, all jointly cried
    They'll follow where he please. The shouts rent heaven,
    As when against pine-bearing Ossa's rocks                        390
    Beats Thracian Boreas, or when trees bow[618] down
    And rustling swing up as the wind fets[619] breath.
    When CÊsar saw his army prone to war,
    And Fates so bent, lest sloth and long delay
    Might cross him, he withdrew his troops from France,
    And in all quarters musters men for Rome.
    They by Lemannus' nook forsook their tents;
    They whom[620] the Lingones foil'd with painted spears,
    Under the rocks by crookËd Vogesus;
    And many came from shallow Isara,                                400
    Who, running long, falls in a greater flood,
    And, ere he sees the sea, loseth his name;
    The yellow Ruthens left their garrisons;
    Mild Atax glad it bears not Roman boats,[621]
    And frontier Varus that the camp is far,
    Sent aid; so did Alcides' port, whose seas
    Eat hollow rocks, and where the north-west wind
    Nor zephyr rules not, but the north alone
    Turmoils the coast, and enterance forbids;
    And others came from that uncertain shore                        410
