[Transcriber's note: This etext was produced from Weird Tales April
1929. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
copyright on this publication was renewed.]

                       _The_ Dunwich Horror

                        by H. P. LOVECRAFT

     "Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimeras--dire stories of Celæno and
     the Harpies--may reproduce themselves in the brain of
     superstition--_but they were there before_. They are transcripts,
     types--the archetypes are in us, and eternal. How else should the
     recital of that which we know in a waking sense to be false come
     to affect us at all? Is it that we naturally conceive terror from
     such objects, considered in their capacity of being able to
     inflict upon us bodily injury? Oh, least of all! _These terrors
     are of older standing. They date beyond body_--or without the
     body, they would have been the same.... That the kind of fear here
     treated is purely spiritual--that it is strong in proportion as it
     is objectless on earth, that it predominates in the period of our
     sinless infancy--are difficulties the solution of which might
     afford some probable insight into our ante-mundane condition, and
     a peep at least into the shadowland of pre-existence."--Charles
     Lamb: _Witches and Other Night-Fears_.

1

When a traveler in north central Massachusetts takes the wrong fork
at the junction of the Aylesbury pike just beyond Dean's Corners he
comes upon a lonely and curious country. The ground gets higher, and
the brier-bordered stone walls press closer and closer against the ruts
of the dusty, curving road. The trees of the frequent forest belts
seem too large, and the wild weeds, brambles, and grasses attain a
luxuriance not often found in settled regions. At the same time the
planted fields appear singularly few and barren; while the sparsely
scattered houses wear a surprizing uniform aspect of age, squalor, and
dilapidation. Without knowing why, one hesitates to ask directions
from the gnarled, solitary figures spied now and then on crumbling
doorsteps or in the sloping, rock-strewn meadows. Those figures are
so silent and furtive that one feels somehow confronted by forbidden
things, with which it would be better to have nothing to do. When a
rise in the road brings the mountains in view above the deep woods,
the feeling of strange uneasiness is increased. The summits are too
rounded and symmetrical to give a sense of comfort and naturalness, and
sometimes the sky silhouettes with especial clearness the queer circles
of tall stone pillars with which most of them are crowned.

Gorges and ravines of problematical depth intersect the way, and the
crude wooden bridges always seem of dubious safety. When the road
dips again there are stretches of marshland that one instinctively
dislikes, and indeed almost fears at evening when unseen whippoorwills
chatter and the fireflies come out in abnormal profusion to dance to
the raucous, creepily insistent rhythms of stridently piping bullfrogs.
The thin, shining line of the Miskatonic's upper reaches has an oddly
serpentlike suggestion as it winds close to the feet of the domed hills
among which it rises.

As the hills draw nearer, one heeds their wooded sides more than their
stone-crowned tops. Those sides loom up so darkly and precipitously
that one wishes they would keep their distance, but there is no road by
which to escape them. Across a covered bridge one sees a small village
huddled between the stream and the vertical slope of Round Mountain,
and wonders at the cluster of rotting gambrel roofs bespeaking an
earlier architectural period than that of the neighboring region. It
is not reassuring to see, on a closer glance, that most of the houses
are deserted and falling to ruin, and that the broken-steepled church
now harbors the one slovenly mercantile establishment of the hamlet.
One dreads to trust the tenebrous tunnel of the bridge, yet there is no
way to avoid it. Once across, it is hard to prevent the impression of a
faint, malign odor about the village street, as of the massed mold and
decay of centuries. It is always a relief to get clear of the place,
and to follow the narrow road around the base of the hills and across
the level country beyond till it rejoins the Aylesbury pike. Afterward
one sometimes learns that one has been through Dunwich.

Outsiders visit Dunwich as seldom as possible, and since a certain
season of horror all the signboards pointing toward it have been taken
down. The scenery, judged by any ordinary esthetic canon, is more
than commonly beautiful; yet there is no influx of artists or summer
tourists. Two centuries ago, when talk of witch-blood, Satan-worship,
and strange forest presences was not laughed at, it was the custom to
give reasons for avoiding the locality. In our sensible age--since
the Dunwich horror of 1928 was hushed up by those who had the town's
and the world's welfare at heart--people shun it without knowing
exactly why. Perhaps one reason--though it can not apply to uninformed
strangers--is that the natives are now repellently decadent, having
gone far along that path of retrogression so common in many New England
backwaters. They have come to form a race by themselves, with the
well-defined mental and physical stigmata of degeneracy and inbreeding.
The average of their intelligence is wofully low, whilst their annals
reek of overt viciousness and of half-hidden murders, incests, and
deeds of almost unnamable violence and perversity. The old gentry,
representing the two or three armigerous families which came from
Salem in 1692, have kept somewhat above the general level of decay;
though many branches are sunk into the sordid populace so deeply that
only their names remain as a key to the origin they disgrace. Some of
the Whateleys and Bishops still send their eldest sons to Harvard and
Miskatonic, though those sons seldom return to the moldering gambrel
roofs under which they and their ancestors were born.

No one, even those who have the facts concerning the recent horror,
can say just what is the matter with Dunwich; though old legends speak
of unhallowed rites and conclaves of the Indians, amidst which they
called forbidden shapes of shadow out of the great rounded hills, and
made wild orgiastic prayers that were answered by loud crackings and
rumblings from the ground below. In 1747 the Reverend Abijah Hoadley,
newly come to the Congregational Church at Dunwich Village, preached a
memorable sermon on the close presence of Satan and his imps, in which
he said:

     It must be allow'd that these Blasphemies of an infernall Train
     of Dæmons are Matters of too common Knowledge to be deny'd; the
     cursed Voices of _Azazel_ and _Buzrael_, of _Beelzebub_ and
     _Belial_, being heard from under Ground by above a Score of
     credible Witnesses now living. I myself did not more than a
     Fortnight ago catch a very plain Discourse of evill Powers in the
     Hill behind my House; wherein there were a Rattling and Rolling,
     Groaning, Screeching, and Hissing, such as no Things of this Earth
     cou'd raise up, and which must needs have come from those Caves
     that only black Magick can discover, and only the Divell unlock.

Mr. Hoadley disappeared soon after delivering this sermon; but the
text, printed in Springfield, is still extant. Noises in the hills
continued to be reported from year to year, and still form a puzzle to
geologists and physiographers.

Other traditions tell of foul odors near the hill-crowning circles of
stone pillars, and of rushing airy presences to be heard faintly at
certain hours from stated points at the bottom of the great ravines;
while still others try to explain the Devil's Hop Yard--a bleak,
blasted hillside where no tree, shrub, or grass-blade will grow. Then,
too, the natives are mortally afraid of the numerous whippoorwills
which grow vocal on warm nights. It is vowed that the birds are
psychopomps lying in wait for the souls of the dying, and that they
time their eery cries in unison with the sufferer's struggling breath.
If they can catch the fleeing soul when it leaves the body, they
instantly flutter away chittering in demoniac laughter; but if they
fail, they subside gradually into a disappointed silence.

These tales, of course, are obsolete and ridiculous; because they come
down from very old times. Dunwich is indeed ridiculously old--older by
far than any of the communities within thirty miles of it. South of the
village one may still spy the cellar walls and chimney of the ancient
Bishop house, which was built before 1700; whilst the ruins of the mill
at the falls, built in 1806, form the most modern piece of architecture
to be seen. Industry did not flourish here, and the Nineteenth Century
factory movement proved short-lived. Oldest of all are the great
rings of rough-hewn stone columns on the hilltops, but these are more
generally attributed to the Indians than to the settlers. Deposits of
skulls and bones, found within these circles and around the sizable
table-like rock on Sentinel Hill, sustain the popular belief that such
spots were once the burial-places of the Pocumtucks; even though many
ethnologists, disregarding the absurd improbability of such a theory,
persist in believing the remains Caucasian.

2

It was in the township of Dunwich, in a large and partly inhabited
farmhouse set against a hillside four miles from the village and a mile
and a half from any other dwelling, that Wilbur Whateley was born at 5
a. m. on Sunday, the second of February, 1913. This date was recalled
because it was Candlemas, which people in Dunwich curiously observe
under another name; and because the noises in the hills had sounded,
and all the dogs of the countryside had barked persistently, throughout
the night before. Less worthy of notice was the fact that the mother
was one of the decadent Whateleys, a somewhat deformed, unattractive
albino woman of 35, living with an aged and half-insane father
about whom the most frightful tales of wizardry had been whispered
in his youth. Lavinia Whateley had no known husband, but according
to the custom of the region made no attempt to disavow the child;
concerning the other side of whose ancestry the country folk might--and
did--speculate as widely as they chose. On the contrary, she seemed
strangely proud of the dark, goatish-looking infant who formed such a
contrast to her own sickly and pink-eyed albinism, and was heard to
mutter many curious prophecies about its unusual powers and tremendous
future.

Lavinia was one who would be apt to mutter such things, for she was a
lone creature given to wandering amidst thunderstorms in the hills and
trying to read the great odorous books which her father had inherited
through two centuries of Whateleys, and which were fast falling to
pieces with age and worm-holes. She had never been to school, but was
filled with disjointed scraps of ancient lore that Old Whateley had
taught her. The remote farmhouse had always been feared because of Old
Whateley's reputation for black magic, and the unexplained death by
violence of Mrs. Whateley when Lavinia was twelve years old had not
helped to make the place popular. Isolated among strange influences,
Lavinia was fond of wild and grandiose daydreams and singular
occupations; nor was her leisure much taken up by household cares in a
home from which all standards of order and cleanliness had long since
disappeared.

There was a hideous screaming which echoed above even the hill noises
and the dogs' barking on the night Wilbur was born, but no known doctor
or midwife presided at his coming. Neighbors knew nothing of him till
a week afterward, when Old Whateley drove his sleigh through the snow
into Dunwich Village and discoursed incoherently to the group of
loungers at Osborn's general store. There seemed to be a change in the
old man--an added element of furtiveness in the clouded brain which
subtly transformed him from an object to a subject of fear--though he
was not one to be perturbed by any common family event. Amidst it all
he showed some trace of the pride later noticed in his daughter, and
what he said of the child's paternity was remembered by many of his
hearers years afterward.

"I dun't keer what folks think--ef Lavinny's boy looked like his pa, he
wouldn't look like nothin' ye expeck. Ye needn't think the only folks
is the folks hereabouts. Lavinny's read some, an' has seed some things
the most o' ye only tell abaout. I calc'late her man is as good a
husban' as ye kin find this side of Aylesbury; an' ef ye knowed as much
abaout the hills as I dew, ye wouldn't ast no better church weddin' nor
her'n. Let me tell ye suthin'--_some day yew folks'll hear a child o'
Lavinny's a-callin' its father's name on the top o' Sentinel Hill!_"

The only persons who saw Wilbur during the first month of his life
were old Zechariah Whateley, of the undecayed Whateleys, and Earl
Sawyer's common-law wife, Mamie Bishop. Mamie's visit was frankly one
of curiosity, and her subsequent tales did justice to her observations;
but Zechariah came to lead a pair of Alderney cows which Old Whateley
had bought of his son Curtis. This marked the beginning of a course of
cattle-buying on the part of small Wilbur's family which ended only
in 1928, when the Dunwich horror came and went; yet at no time did
the ramshackle Whateley barn seem over-crowded with livestock. There
came a period when people were curious enough to steal up and count
the herd that grazed precariously on the steep hillside above the old
farmhouse, and they could never find more than ten or twelve anemic,
bloodless-looking specimens. Evidently some blight or distemper,
perhaps sprung from the unwholesome pasturage or the diseased fungi
and timbers of the filthy barn, caused a heavy mortality amongst the
Whateley animals. Odd wounds or sores, having something of the aspect
of incisions, seemed to afflict the visible cattle; and once or twice
during the earlier months certain callers fancied they could discern
similar sores about the throats of the gray, unshaven old man and his
slatternly, crinkly-haired albino daughter.

In the spring after Wilbur's birth Lavinia resumed her customary
rambles in the hills, bearing in her misproportioned arms the swarthy
child. Public interest in the Whateleys subsided after most of the
country folk had seen the baby, and no one bothered to comment on the
swift development which that newcomer seemed every day to exhibit.
Wilbur's growth was indeed phenomenal, for within three months of his
birth he had attained a size and muscular power not usually found in
infants under a full year of age. His motions and even his vocal sounds
showed a restraint and deliberateness highly peculiar in an infant,
and no one was really unprepared when, at seven months, he began to
walk unassisted, with falterings which another month was sufficient to
remove.

It was somewhat after this time--on Hallowe'en--that a great blaze was
seen at midnight on the top of Sentinel Hill where the old table-like
stone stands amidst its tumulus of ancient bones. Considerable talk
was started when Silas Bishop--of the undecayed Bishops--mentioned
having seen the boy running sturdily up that hill ahead of his mother
about an hour before the blaze was remarked. Silas was rounding up a
stray heifer, but he nearly forgot his mission when he fleetingly spied
the two figures in the dim light of his lantern. They darted almost
noiselessly through the underbrush, and the astonished watcher seemed
to think they were entirely unclothed. Afterward he could not be sure
about the boy, who may have had some kind of a fringed belt and a pair
of dark blue trunks or trousers on. Wilbur was never subsequently seen
alive and conscious without complete and tightly buttoned attire, the
disarrangement or threatened disarrangement of which always seemed to
fill him with anger and alarm. His contrast with his squalid mother and
grandfather in this respect was thought very notable until the horror
of 1928 suggested the most valid of reasons.

The next January gossips were mildly interested in the fact that
"Lavinny's black brat" had commenced to talk, and at the age of only
eleven months. His speech was somewhat remarkable both because of its
difference from the ordinary accents of the region, and because it
displayed a freedom from infantile lisping of which many children of
three or four might well be proud. The boy was not talkative, yet when
he spoke he seemed to reflect some elusive element wholly unpossessed
by Dunwich and its denizens. The strangeness did not reside in what he
said, or even in the simple idioms he used; but seemed vaguely linked
with his intonation or with the internal organs that produced the
spoken sounds. His facial aspect, too, was remarkable for its maturity;
for though he shared his mother's and grandfather's chinlessness, his
firm and precociously shaped nose united with the expression on his
large, dark, almost Latin eyes to give him an air of quasi-adulthood
and well-nigh preternatural intelligence. He was, however, exceedingly
ugly despite his appearance of brilliancy; there being something almost
goatish or animalistic about his thick lips, large-pored, yellowish
skin, coarse crinkly hair, and oddly elongated ears. He was soon
disliked even more decidedly than his mother and grandsire, and all
conjectures about him were spiced with references to the bygone magic
of Old Whateley, and how the hills once shook when he shrieked the
dreadful name of _Yog-Sothoth_ in the midst of a circle of stones with
a great book open in his arms before him. Dogs abhorred the boy, and
he was always obliged to take various defensive measures against their
barking menace.

3

Meanwhile Old Whateley continued to buy cattle without measurably
increasing the size of his herd. He also cut timber and began to
repair the unused parts of his house--a spacious, peaked-roofed affair
whose rear end was buried entirely in the rocky hillside, and whose
three least-ruined ground-floor rooms had always been sufficient for
himself and his daughter. There must have been prodigious reserves
of strength in the old man to enable him to accomplish so much hard
labor; and though he still babbled dementedly at times, his carpentry
seemed to show the effects of sound calculation. It had really begun
as soon as Wilbur was born, when one of the many tool-sheds had been
put suddenly in order, clapboarded, and fitted with a stout fresh lock.
Now, in restoring the abandoned upper story of the house, he was a no
less thorough craftsman. His mania showed itself only in his tight
boarding-up of all the windows in the reclaimed section--though many
declared that it was a crazy thing to bother with the reclamation at
all. Less inexplicable was his fitting-up of another downstairs room
for his new grandson--a room which several callers saw, though no one
was ever admitted to the closely-boarded upper story. This chamber
he lined with tall, firm shelving; along which he began gradually to
arrange, in apparently careful order, all the rotting ancient books and
parts of books which during his own day had been heaped promiscuously
in odd corners of the various rooms.

"I made some use of 'em," he would say as he tried to mend a torn
black-letter page with paste prepared on the rusty kitchen stove, "but
the boy's fitten to make better use of 'em. He'd orter hev 'em as well
sot as he kin for they're goin' to be all of his larnin'."

When Wilbur was a year and seven months old--in September of 1914--his
size and accomplishments were almost alarming. He had grown as large as
a child of four, and was a fluent and incredibly intelligent talker.
He ran freely about the fields and hills, and accompanied his mother
on all her wanderings. At home he would pore diligently over the queer
pictures and charts in his grandfather's books, while Old Whateley
would instruct and catechize him through long, hushed afternoons. By
this time the restoration of the house was finished, and those who
watched it wondered why one of the upper windows had been made into a
solid plank door. It was a window in the rear of the east gable end,
close against the hill; and no one could imagine why a cleated wooden
runway was built up to it from the ground. About the period of this
work's completion people noticed that the old tool-house, tightly
locked and windowlessly clapboarded since Wilbur's birth, had been
abandoned again. The door swung listlessly open, and when Earl Sawyer
once stepped within after a cattle-selling call on Old Whateley he was
quite discomposed by the singular odor he encountered--such a stench,
he averred, as he had never before smelt in all his life except near
the Indian circles on the hills, and which could not come from anything
sane or of this earth. But then, the homes and sheds of Dunwich folk
have never been remarkable for olfactory immaculateness.

The following months were void of visible events, save that everyone
swore to a slow but steady increase in the mysterious hill noises. On
May Eve of 1915 there were tremors which even the Aylesbury people
felt, whilst the following Hallowe'en produced an underground rumbling
queerly synchronized with bursts of flame--"them witch Whateleys'
doin's"--from the summit of Sentinel Hill. Wilbur was growing up
uncannily, so that he looked like a boy of ten as he entered his
fourth year. He read avidly by himself now; but talked much less than
formerly. A settled taciturnity was absorbing him, and for the first
time people began to speak specifically of the dawning look of evil in
his goatish face. He would sometimes mutter an unfamiliar jargon, and
chant in bizarre rhythms which chilled the listener with a sense of
unexplainable terror. The aversion displayed toward him by dogs had now
become a matter of wide remark, and he was obliged to carry a pistol
in order to traverse the countryside in safety. His occasional use of
the weapon did not enhance his popularity amongst the owners of canine
guardians.

The few callers at the house would often find Lavinia alone on the
ground floor, while odd cries and footsteps resounded in the boarded-up
second story. She would never tell what her father and the boy were
doing up there, though once she turned pale and displayed an abnormal
degree of fear when a jocose fish-peddler tried the locked door leading
to the stairway. That peddler told the store loungers at Dunwich
Village that he thought he heard a horse stamping on that floor above.
The loungers reflected, thinking of the door and runway, and of
the cattle that so swiftly disappeared. Then they shuddered as they
recalled tales of Old Whateley's youth, and of the strange things that
are called out of the earth when a bullock is sacrificed at the proper
time to certain heathen gods. It had for some time been noticed that
dogs had begun to hate and fear the whole Whateley place as violently
as they hated and feared young Wilbur personally.

In 1917 the war came, and Squire Sawyer Whateley, as chairman of the
local draft board, had hard work finding a quota of young Dunwich men
fit even to be sent to a development camp. The government, alarmed at
such signs of wholesale regional decadence, sent several officers and
medical experts to investigate; conducting a survey which New England
newspaper readers may still recall. It was the publicity attending this
investigation which set reporters on the track of the Whateleys, and
caused the _Boston Globe_ and _Arkham Advertiser_ to print flamboyant
Sunday stories of young Wilbur's precociousness, Old Whateley's black
magic, the shelves of strange books, the sealed second story of the
ancient farmhouse, and the weirdness of the whole region and its hill
noises. Wilbur was four and a half then, and looked like a lad of
fifteen. His lip and cheek were fuzzy with a coarse dark down, and his
voice had begun to break. Earl Sawyer went out to the Whateley place
with both sets of reporters and camera men, and called their attention
to the queer stench which now seemed to trickle down from the sealed
upper spaces. It was, he said, exactly like a smell he had found in the
tool-shed abandoned when the house was finally repaired, and like the
faint odors which he sometimes thought he caught near the stone circles
on the mountains. Dunwich folk read the stories when they appeared, and
grinned over the obvious mistakes. They wondered, too, why the writers
made so much of the fact that Old Whateley always paid for his cattle
in gold pieces of extremely ancient date. The Whateleys had received
their visitors with ill-concealed distaste, though they did not dare
court further publicity by a violent resistance or refusal to talk.

4

For a decade the annals of the Whateleys sink indistinguishably into
the general life of a morbid community used to their queer ways and
hardened to their May Eve and All-Hallow orgies. Twice a year they
would light fires on the top of Sentinel Hill, at which times the
mountain rumblings would recur with greater and greater violence; while
at all seasons there were strange and portentous doings at the lonely
farmhouse. In the course of time callers professed to hear sounds
in the sealed upper story even when all the family were downstairs,
and they wondered how swiftly or how lingeringly a cow or bullock
was usually sacrificed. There was talk of a complaint to the Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; but nothing ever came of
it, since Dunwich folk are never anxious to call the outside world's
attention to themselves.

About 1923, when Wilbur was a boy of ten whose mind, voice, stature,
and bearded face gave all the impressions of maturity, a second great
siege of carpentry went on at the old house. It was all inside the
sealed upper part, and from bits of discarded lumber people concluded
that the youth and his grandfather had knocked out all the partitions
and even removed the attic floor, leaving only one vast open void
between the ground story and the peaked roof. They had torn down the
great central chimney, too, and fitted the rusty range with a flimsy
outside tin stove-pipe.

In the spring after this event Old Whateley noticed the growing number
of whippoorwills that would come out of Cold Spring Glen to chirp under
his window at night. He seemed to regard the circumstance as one of
great significance, and told the loungers at Osborn's that he thought
his time had almost come.

"They whistle jest in tune with my breathin' naow," he said, "an' I
guess they're gittin' ready to ketch my soul. They know it's a-goin'
aout, an' dun't calc'late to miss it. Yew'll know, boys, arter I'm
gone, whether they git me er not. Ef they dew, they'll keep up
a-singin' an' laffin' till break o' day. Ef they dun't, they'll kinder
quiet daown like. I expeck them an' the souls they hunts fer hev some
pretty tough tussles sometimes."

On Lammas Night, 1924, Dr. Houghton of Aylesbury was hastily summoned
by Wilbur Whateley, who had lashed his one remaining horse through the
darkness and telephoned from Osborn's in the village. He found Old
Whateley in a very grave state, with a cardiac action and stertorous
breathing that told of an end not far off. The shapeless albino
daughter and oddly bearded grandson stood by the bedside, whilst from
the vacant abyss overhead there came a disquieting suggestion of
rhythmical surging or lapping, as of the waves on some level beach. The
doctor, though, was chiefly disturbed by the chattering night birds
outside; a seemingly limitless legion of whippoorwills that cried their
endless message in repetitions timed diabolically to the wheezing gasps
of the dying man. It was uncanny and unnatural--too much, thought Dr.
Houghton, like the whole of the region he had entered so reluctantly in
response to the urgent call.

Toward 1 o'clock Old Whateley gained consciousness, and interrupted his
wheezing to choke out a few words to his grandson.

"More space, Willy, more space soon. Yew grows--an' _that_ grows
faster. It'll be ready to sarve ye soon, boy. Open up the gates to
Yog-Sothoth with the long chant that ye'll find on page 751 _of the
complete edition_, an' _then_ put a match to the prison. Fire from
airth can't burn it nohaow!"

He was obviously quite mad. After a pause, during which the flock of
whippoorwills outside adjusted their cries to the altered tempo while
some indications of the strange hill noises came from afar off, he
added another sentence or two.

"Feed it reg'lar, Willy, an' mind the quantity; but dun't let it grow
too fast fer the place, fer ef it busts quarters or gits aout afore ye
opens to Yog-Sothoth, it's all over an' no use. Only them from beyont
kin make it multiply an' work.... Only them, the old uns as wants to
come back...."

But speech gave place to gasps again, and Lavinia screamed at the
way the whippoorwills followed the change. It was the same for more
than an hour, when the final throaty rattle came. Dr. Houghton drew
shrunken lids over the glazing gray eyes as the tumult of birds faded
imperceptibly to silence. Lavinia sobbed, but Wilbur only chuckled
whilst the hill noises rumbled faintly.

"They didn't git him," he muttered in his heavy bass voice.

Wilbur was by this time a scholar of really tremendous erudition in
his one-sided way, and was quietly known by correspondence to many
librarians in distant places where rare and forbidden books of old days
are kept. He was more and more hated and dreaded around Dunwich because
of certain youthful disappearances which suspicion laid vaguely at his
door; but was always able to silence inquiry through fear or through
use of that fund of old-time gold which still, as in his grandfather's
time, went forth regularly and increasingly for cattle-buying. He
was now tremendously mature of aspect, and his height, having reached
the normal adult limit, seemed inclined to wax beyond that figure. In
1925, when a scholarly correspondent from Miskatonic University called
upon him one day and departed pale and puzzled, he was fully six and
three-quarters feet tall.

Through all the years Wilbur had treated his half-deformed albino
mother with a growing contempt, finally forbidding her to go to the
hills with him on May Eve and Hallowmass; and in 1926 the poor creature
complained to Mamie Bishop of being afraid of him.

"They's more abaout him as I knows than I kin tell ye, Mamie," she
said, "an' naowadays they's more nor what I know myself. I vaow afur
Gawd, I dun't know what he wants nor what he's a-tryin' to dew."

That Hallowe'en the hill noises sounded louder than ever, and fire
burned on Sentinel Hill as usual, but people paid more attention
to the rhythmical screaming of vast flocks of unnaturally belated
whippoorwills which seemed to be assembled near the unlighted Whateley
farmhouse. After midnight their shrill notes burst into a kind of
pandemoniac cachinnation which filled all the countryside, and not
until dawn did they finally quiet down. Then they vanished, hurrying
southward where they were fully a month overdue. What this meant, no
one could quite be certain till later. None of the countryfolk seemed
to have died--but poor Lavinia Whateley, the twisted albino, was never
seen again.

In the summer of 1927 Wilbur repaired two sheds in the farmyard and
began moving his books and effects out to them. Soon afterward Earl
Sawyer told the loungers at Osborn's that more carpentry was going on
in the Whateley farmhouse. Wilbur was closing all the doors and windows
on the ground floor, and seemed to be taking out partitions as he and
his grandfather had done upstairs four years before. He was living
in one of the sheds, and Sawyer thought he seemed unusually worried
and tremulous. People generally suspected him of knowing something
about his mother's disappearance, and very few ever approached his
neighborhood now. His height had increased to more than seven feet, and
showed no signs of ceasing its development.

5

The following winter brought an event no less strange than Wilbur's
first trip outside the Dunwich region. Correspondence with the Widener
Library at Harvard, the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris, the British
Museum, the University of Buenos Aires, and the Library of Miskatonic
University at Arkham had failed to get him the loan of a book he
desperately wanted; so at length he set out in person, shabby, dirty,
bearded, and uncouth of dialect, to consult the copy at Miskatonic,
which was the nearest to him geographically. Almost eight feet tall,
and carrying a cheap new valise from Osborn's general store, this
dark and goatish gargoyle appeared one day in Arkham in quest of the
dreaded volume kept under lock and key at the college library--the
hideous _Necronomicon_ of the mad Arab Alhazred in Olaus Wormius' Latin
version, as printed in Spain in the Seventeenth Century. He had never
seen a city before, but had no thought save to find his way to the
university grounds; where, indeed, he passed heedlessly by the great
white-fanged watchdog that barked with unnatural fury and enmity, and
tugged frantically at its stout chain.

Wilbur had with him the priceless but imperfect copy of Dr. Dee's
English version which his grandfather had bequeathed him, and upon
receiving access to the Latin copy he at once began to collate the two
texts with the aim of discovering a certain passage which would have
come on the 751st page of his own defective volume. This much he could
not civilly refrain from telling the librarian--the same erudite Henry
Armitage (A. M. Miskatonic, Ph. D. Princeton, Litt. D. Johns Hopkins)
who had once called at the farm, and who now politely plied him with
questions. He was looking, he had to admit, for a kind of formula or
incantation containing the frightful name _Yog-Sothoth_, and it puzzled
him to find discrepancies, duplications, and ambiguities which made
the matter of determination far from easy. As he copied the formula
he finally chose, Dr. Armitage looked involuntarily over his shoulder
at the open pages; the left-hand one of which, in the Latin version,
contained such monstrous threats to the peace and sanity of the world.

    Nor is it to be thought [ran the text as Armitage mentally
    translated it] that man is either the oldest or the last of earth's
    masters, or that the common bulk of life and substance walks alone.
    The Old Ones were, the Old Ones are, and the Old Ones shall be. Not
    in the spaces we know, but _between_ them. They walk serene and
    primal, undimensioned and to us unseen. _Yog-Sothoth_ knows the
    gate. _Yog-Sothoth_ is the gate. _Yog-Sothoth_ is the key and
    guardian of the gate. Past, present, future, all are one in
    _Yog-Sothoth_. He knows where the Old Ones broke through of old,
    and where They shall break through again. He knows where They have
    trod earth's fields, and where They still tread them, and why no
    one can behold Them as They tread. By Their smell can men sometimes
    know Them near, but of Their semblance can no man know, _saving
    only in the features of those They have begotten on mankind_; and
    of those are there many sorts, differing in likeness from man's
    truest eidolon to that shape without sight or substance which is
    _They_. They walk unseen and foul in lonely places where the Words
    have been spoken and the Rites howled through at their Seasons.
    The wind gibbers with Their voices, and the earth mutters with
    Their consciousness. They bend the forest and crush the city, yet
    may not forest or city behold the hand that smites. Kadath in the
    cold waste hath known Them, and what man knows Kadath? The ice
    desert of the South and the sunken isles of Ocean hold stones
    whereon Their seal is engraven, but who hath seen the deep frozen
    city or the sealed tower long garlanded with seaweed and barnacles?
    Great Cthulhu is Their cousin, yet can he spy Them only dimly. _Iä
    Shub-Niggurath!_ As a foulness shall ye know Them. Their hand is at
    your throats, yet ye see Them not; and Their habitation is even one
    with your guarded threshold. _Yog-Sothoth_ is the key to the gate,
    whereby the spheres meet. Man rules now where They ruled once; They
    shall soon rule where man rules now. After summer is winter, and
    after winter summer. They wait patient and potent, for here shall
    They reign again.

Dr. Armitage, associating what he was reading with what he had heard
of Dunwich and its brooding presences, and of Wilbur Whateley and his
dim, hideous aura that stretched from a dubious birth to a cloud of
probable matricide, felt a wave of fright as tangible as a draft of the
tomb's cold clamminess. The bent, goatish giant before him seemed like
the spawn of another planet or dimension; like something only partly of
mankind, and linked to black gulfs of essence and entity that stretch
like titan fantasms beyond all spheres of force and matter, space and
time.

Presently Wilbur raised his head and began speaking in that strange,
resonant fashion which hinted at sound-producing organs unlike the run
of mankind's.

"Mr. Armitage," he said, "I calc'late I've got to take that book home.
They's things in it I've got to try under sarten conditions that I
can't git here, an' it 'ud be a mortal sin to let a red-tape rule hold
me up. Let me take it along, sir, an' I'll swar they wun't nobody know
the difference. I dun't need to tell ye I'll take good keer of it. It
wa'n't me that put this Dee copy in the shape it is...."

He stopped as he saw firm denial on the librarian's face, and his own
goatish features grew crafty. Armitage, half ready to tell him he might
make a copy of what parts he needed, thought suddenly of the possible
consequences and checked himself. There was too much responsibility
in giving such a being the key to such blasphemous outer spheres.
Whateley saw how things stood, and tried to answer lightly.

"Wal, all right, ef ye feel that way abaout it. Maybe Harvard wun't be
so fussy as yew be." And without saying more he rose and strode out of
the building, stooping at each doorway.

Armitage heard the savage yelping of the great watchdog, and studied
Whateley's gorilla-like lope as he crossed the bit of campus visible
from the window. He thought of the wild tales he had heard, and
recalled the old Sunday stories in the _Advertiser_; these things, and
the lore he had picked up from Dunwich rustics and villagers during
his one visit there. Unseen things not of earth--or at least not of
tri-dimensional earth--rushed fetid and horrible through New England's
glens, and brooded obscenely on the mountain tops. Of this he had
long felt certain. Now he seemed to sense the close presence of some
terrible part of the intruding horror, and to glimpse a hellish advance
in the black dominion of the ancient and once passive nightmare. He
locked away the _Necronomicon_ with a shudder of disgust, but the room
still reeked with an unholy and unidentifiable stench. "As a foulness
shall ye know them," he quoted. Yes--the odor was the same as that
which had sickened him at the Whateley farmhouse less than three years
before. He thought of Wilbur, goatish and ominous, once again, and
laughed mockingly at the village rumors of his parentage.

"Inbreeding?" Armitage muttered half aloud to himself. "Great God, what
simpletons! Show them Arthur Machen's _Great God Pan_ and they'll think
it a common Dunwich scandal! But what thing--what cursed shapeless
influence on or off this three-dimensioned earth--was Wilbur Whateley's
father? Born on Candlemas--nine months after May Eve of 1912, when the
talk about the queer earth noises reached clear to Arkham--what walked
on the mountains that May Night? What Roodmas horror fastened itself on
the world in half-human flesh and blood?"

During the ensuing weeks Dr. Armitage set about to collect all possible
data on Wilbur Whateley and the formless presences around Dunwich. He
got in communication with Dr. Houghton of Aylesbury, who had attended
Old Whateley in his last illness, and found much to ponder over in the
grandfather's last words as quoted by the physician. A visit to Dunwich
Village failed to bring out much that was new; but a close survey of
the _Necronomicon_, in those parts which Wilbur had sought so avidly,
seemed to supply new and terrible clues to the nature, methods, and
desires of the strange evil so vaguely threatening this planet. Talks
with several students of archaic lore in Boston, and letters to many
others elsewhere, gave him a growing amazement which passed slowly
through varied degrees of alarm to a state of really acute spiritual
fear. As the summer drew on he felt dimly that something ought to be
done about the lurking terrors of the upper Miskatonic valley, and
about the monstrous being known to the human world as Wilbur Whateley.

6

The Dunwich horror itself came between Lammas and the equinox in 1928,
and Dr. Armitage was among those who witnessed its monstrous prologue.
He had heard, meanwhile, of Whateley's grotesque trip to Cambridge,
and of his frantic efforts to borrow or copy from the _Necronomicon_
at the Widener Library. Those efforts had been in vain, since Armitage
had issued warnings of the keenest intensity to all librarians having
charge of the dreaded volume. Wilbur had been shockingly nervous at
Cambridge; anxious for the book, yet almost equally anxious to get
home again, as if he feared the results of being away long.

Early in August the half-expected outcome developed, and in the small
hours of the third Dr. Armitage was awakened suddenly by the wild,
fierce cries of the savage watchdog on the college campus. Deep and
terrible, the snarling, half-mad growls and barks continued; always
in mounting volume, but with hideously significant pauses. Then there
rang out a scream from a wholly different throat--such a scream as
roused half the sleepers of Arkham and haunted their dreams ever
afterward--such a scream as could come from no being born of earth, or
wholly of earth.

Armitage hastened into some clothing and rushed across the street and
lawn to the college buildings, saw that others were ahead of him; and
heard the echoes of a burglar-alarm still shrilling from the library.
An open window showed black and gaping in the moonlight. What had come
had indeed completed its entrance; for the barking and the screaming,
now fast fading into a mixed low growling and moaning, proceeded
unmistakably from within. Some instinct warned Armitage that what was
taking place was not a thing for unfortified eyes to see, so he brushed
back the crowd with authority as he unlocked the vestibule door. Among
the others he saw Professor Warren Rice and Dr. Francis Morgan, men to
whom he had told some of his conjectures and misgivings; and these two
he motioned to accompany him inside. The inward sounds, except for a
watchful, droning whine from the dog, had by this time quite subsided;
but Armitage now perceived with a sudden start that a loud chorus of
whippoorwills among the shrubbery had commenced a damnably rhythmical
piping, as if in unison with the last breath of a dying man.

The building was full of a frightful stench which Dr. Armitage knew
too well, and the three men rushed across the hall to the small
genealogical reading-room whence the low whining came. For a second
nobody dared to turn on the light; then Armitage summoned up his
courage and snapped the switch. One of the three--it is not certain
which--shrieked aloud at what sprawled before them among disordered
tables and overturned chairs. Professor Rice declares that he wholly
lost consciousness for an instant, though he did not stumble or fall.

The thing that lay half-bent on its side in a fetid pool of
greenish-yellow ichor and tarry stickiness was almost nine feet tall,
and the dog had torn off all the clothing and some of the skin. It
was not quite dead, but twitched silently and spasmodically while its
chest heaved in monstrous unison with the mad piping of the expectant
whippoorwills outside. Bits of shoe-leather and fragments of apparel
were scattered about the room, and just inside the window an empty
canvas sack lay where it had evidently been thrown. Near the central
desk a revolver had fallen, a dented but undischarged cartridge later
explaining why it had not been fired. The thing itself, however,
crowded out all other images at the time. It would be trite and not
wholly accurate to say that no human pen could describe it, but one may
properly say that it could not be vividly visualized by anyone whose
ideas of aspect and contour are too closely bound up with the common
life-forms of this planet and of the three known dimensions. It was
partly human, beyond a doubt, with very manlike hands and head, and the
goatish, chinless face had the stamp of the Whateleys upon it. But the
torso and lower parts of the body were teratologically fabulous, so
that only generous clothing could ever have enabled it to walk on earth
unchallenged or uneradicated.

Above the waist it was semi-anthropomorphic; though its chest, where
the dog's rending paws still rested watchfully, had the leathery,
reticulated hide of a crocodile or alligator. The back was piebald
with yellow and black, and dimly suggested the squamous covering of
certain snakes. Below the waist, though, it was the worst; for here
all human resemblance left off and sheer fantasy began. The skin was
thickly covered with coarse black fur, and from the abdomen a score of
long greenish-gray tentacles with red sucking mouths protruded limply.
Their arrangement was odd, and seemed to follow the symmetries of some
cosmic geometry unknown to earth or the solar system. On each of the
hips, deep set in a kind of pinkish, ciliated orbit, was what seemed to
be a rudimentary eye; whilst in lieu of a tail there depended a kind of
trunk or feeler with purple annular markings, and with many evidences
of being an undeveloped mouth or throat. The limbs, save for their
black fur, roughly resembled the hind legs of prehistoric earth's giant
saurians; and terminated in ridgy-veined pads that were neither hooves
nor claws. When the thing breathed, its tail and tentacles rhythmically
changed color, as if from some circulatory cause normal to the
non-human side of its ancestry. In the tentacles this was observable as
a deepening of the greenish tinge, whilst in the tail it was manifest
as a yellowish appearance which alternated with a sickly grayish-white
in the spaces between the purple rings. Of genuine blood there was
none; only the fetid greenish-yellow ichor which trickled along the
painted floor beyond the radius of the stickiness, and left a curious
discoloration behind it.

As the presence of the three men seemed to rouse the dying thing, it
began to mumble without turning or raising its head. Dr. Armitage
made no written record of its mouthings, but asserts confidently that
nothing in English was uttered. At first the syllables defied all
correlation with any speech of earth, but toward the last there came
some disjointed fragments evidently taken from the _Necronomicon_,
that monstrous blasphemy in quest of which the thing had perished.
Those fragments, as Armitage recalls them, ran something like "_N'gai,
n'gha'ghaa, bugg-shoggog, y'hah; Yog-Sothoth, Yog-Sothoth...._"
They trailed off into nothingness as the whippoorwills shrieked in
rhythmical crescendoes of unholy anticipation.

Then came a halt in the gasping, and the dog raised his head in a long,
lugubrious howl. A change came over the yellow, goatish face of the
prostrate thing, and the great black eyes fell in appallingly. Outside
the window the shrilling of the whippoorwills had suddenly ceased, and
above the murmurs of the gathering crowd there came the sound of a
panic-struck whirring and fluttering. Against the moon vast clouds of
feathery watchers rose and raced from sight, frantic at that which they
had sought for prey.

All at once the dog started up abruptly, gave a frightened bark, and
leaped nervously out the window by which it had entered. A cry rose
from the crowd, and Dr. Armitage shouted to the men outside that no
one must be admitted till the police or medical examiner came. He was
thankful that the windows were just too high to permit of peering
in, and drew the dark curtains carefully down over each one. By this
time two policemen had arrived; and Dr. Morgan, meeting them in the
vestibule, was urging them for their own sakes to postpone entrance to
the stench-filled reading-room till the examiner came and the prostrate
thing could be covered up.

Meanwhile frightful changes were taking place on the floor. One need
not describe the _kind_ and _rate_ of shrinkage and disintegration that
occurred before the eyes of Dr. Armitage and Professor Rice; but it is
permissible to say that, aside from the external appearance of face
and hands, the really human elements in Wilbur Whateley must have been
very small. When the medical examiner came, there was only a sticky
whitish mass on the painted boards, and the monstrous odor had nearly
disappeared. Apparently Whateley had had no skull or bony skeleton; at
least, in any true or stable sense. He had taken somewhat after his
unknown father.

7

Yet all this was only the prologue of the actual Dunwich horror.
Formalities were gone through by bewildered officials, abnormal details
were duly kept from press and public, and men were sent to Dunwich
and Aylesbury to look up property and notify any who might be heirs
of the late Wilbur Whateley. They found the countryside in great
agitation, both because of the growing rumblings beneath the domed
hills, and because of the unwonted stench and the surging, lapping
sounds which came increasingly from the great empty shell formed by
Whateley's boarded-up farmhouse. Earl Sawyer, who tended the horse and
cattle during Wilbur's absence, had developed a wofully acute case
of nerves. The officials devised excuses not to enter the noisome
boarded place; and were glad to confine their survey of the deceased's
living quarters, the newly mended sheds, to a single visit. They filed
a ponderous report at the court-house in Aylesbury, and litigations
concerning heirship are said to be still in progress amongst the
innumerable Whateleys, decayed and undecayed, of the upper Miskatonic
valley.

An almost interminable manuscript in strange characters, written in a
huge ledger and adjudged a sort of diary because of the spacing and
the variations in ink and penmanship, presented a baffling puzzle to
those who found it on the old bureau which served as its owner's
desk. After a week of debate it was sent to Miskatonic University,
together with the deceased's collection of strange books, for study
and possible translation; but even the best linguists soon saw that it
was not likely to be unriddled with ease. No trace of the ancient gold
with which Wilbur and Old Whateley always paid their debts has yet been
discovered.

It was in the dark of September ninth that the horror broke loose.
The hill noises had been very pronounced during the evening, and dogs
barked frantically all night. Early risers on the tenth noticed a
peculiar stench in the air. About 7 o'clock Luther Brown, the hired boy
at George Corey's, between Cold Spring Glen and the village, rushed
frenziedly back from his morning trip to Ten-Acre Meadow with the cows.
He was almost convulsed with fright as he stumbled into the kitchen;
and in the yard outside the no less frightened herd were pawing and
lowing pitifully, having followed the boy back in the panic they shared
with him. Between gasps Luther tried to stammer out his tale to Mrs.
Corey.

"Up thar in the rud beyont the glen, Mis' Corey--they's suthin' ben
thar! It smells like thunder, an' all the bushes an' little trees is
pushed back from the rud like they'd a haouse ben moved along of it.
An' that ain't the wust, nuther. They's _prints_ in the rud, Mis'
Corey--great raound prints as big as barrel-heads, all sunk daown deep
like a elephant had ben along, _only they's a sight more nor four feet
could make_. I looked at one or two afore I run, an' I see every one
was covered with lines spreadin' aout from one place, like as if big
palm-leaf fans--twict or three times as big as any they is--hed of ben
paounded daown into the rud. An' the smell was awful, like what it is
araound Wizard Whateley's ol' haouse...."

Here he faltered, and seemed to shiver afresh with the fright that had
sent him flying home. Mrs. Corey, unable to extract more information,
began telephoning the neighbors; thus starting on its rounds the
overture of panic that heralded the major terrors. When she got Sally
Sawyer, housekeeper at Seth Bishop's, the nearest place to Whateley's,
it became her turn to listen instead of transmit; for Sally's boy
Chauncey, who slept poorly, had been up on the hill toward Whateley's,
and had dashed back in terror after one look at the place, and at the
pasturage where Mr. Bishop's cows had been left out all night.

"Yes, Mis' Corey," came Sally's tremulous voice over the party wire,
"Cha'ncey he just come back a-post-in', and couldn't haff talk fer
bein' scairt! He says Ol' Whateley's haouse is all blowed up, with
the timbers scattered raound like they'd ben dynamite inside; only
the bottom floor ain't through, but is all covered with a kind o'
tarlike stuff that smells awful an' drips daown offen the aidges onto
the graoun' whar the side timbers is blowed away. An' they's awful
kinder marks in the yard, tew--great raound marks bigger raound than a
hogshead, an' all sticky with stuff like is on the blowed-up haouse.
Cha'ncey he says they leads off into the medders, whar a great swath
wider'n a barn is matted daown, an' all the stun walls tumbled every
which way wherever it goes.

"An' he says, says he, Mis' Corey, as haow he sot to look fer Seth's
caows, frighted ez he was; an' faound 'em in the upper pasture nigh the
Devil's Hop Yard in an awful shape. Haff on 'em's clean gone, an' nigh
haff o' them that's left is sucked most dry o' blood, with sores on 'em
like they's ben on Whateley's cattle ever senct Lavinny's black brat
was born. Seth he's gone aout naow to look at 'em, though I'll vaow he
wun't keer ter git very nigh Wizard Whateley's! Cha'ncey didn't look
keerful ter see whar the big matted-daown swath led arter it leff the
pasturage, but he says he thinks it p'inted towards the glen rud to the
village.

"I tell ye, Mis' Corey, they's suthin' abroad as hadn't orter be
abroad, an' I fer one think that black Wilbur Whateley, as come to
the bad eend he desarved, is at the bottom of the breedin' of it. He
wa'n't all human hisself, I allus says to everybody; an' I think he an'
Ol' Whateley must a raised suthin' in that there nailed-up haouse as
ain't even so human as he was. They's allus ben unseen things araound
Dunwich--livin' things--as ain't human an' ain't good fer human folks.

"The graoun' was a'talkin' lass night, an' towards mornin' Cha'ncey
he heerd the whippoorwills so laoud in Col' Spring Glen he couldn't
sleep none. Then he thought he heerd another faintlike saound over
towards Wizard Whateley's--a kinder rippin' or tearin' o' wood, like
some big box or crate was bein' opened fur off. What with this an'
that, he didn't git to sleep at all till sunup, an' no sooner was he
up this mornin', but he's got to go over to Whateley's an' see what's
the matter. He see enough, I tell ye, Mis' Corey! This dun't mean no
good, an' I think as all the men-folks ought to git up a party an'
do suthin'. I know suthin' awful's abaout, an' feel my time is nigh,
though only Gawd knows jest what it is.

"Did your Luther take accaount o' whar them big tracks led tew? No?
Wal, Mis' Corey, ef they was on the glen rud this side o' the glen,
an' ain't got to your haouse yet, I calc'late they must go into the
glen itself. They would do that. I allus says Col' Spring Glen ain't no
healthy nor decent place. The whippoorwills an' fireflies there never
did act like they was creaters o' Gawd, an' they's them as says ye kin
hear strange things a-rushin' an' a-talkin' in the air daown thar ef ye
stand in the right place, atween the rock falls an' Bear's Den."

       *       *       *       *       *

By that noon fully three-quarters of the men and boys of Dunwich were
trooping over the roads and meadows between the new-made Whateley ruins
and Cold Spring Glen; examining in horror the vast, monstrous prints,
the maimed Bishop cattle, the strange, noisome wreck of the farmhouse,
and the bruised, matted vegetation of the fields and road-sides.
Whatever had burst loose upon the world had assuredly gone down into
the great sinister ravine; for all the trees on the banks were bent and
broken, and a great avenue had been gouged in the precipice-hanging
underbrush. It was as though a house, launched by an avalanche, had
slid down through the tangled growths of the almost vertical slope.
From below no sound came, but only a distant, undefinable fetor; and
it is not to be wondered at that the men preferred to stay on the edge
and argue, rather than descend and beard the unknown Cyclopean horror
in its lair. Three dogs that were with the party had barked furiously
at first, but seemed cowed and reluctant when near the glen. Someone
telephoned the news to the _Aylesbury Transcript_; but the editor,
accustomed to wild tales from Dunwich, did no more than concoct a
humorous paragraph about it; an item soon afterward reproduced by the
Associated Press.

That night everyone went home, and every house and barn was barricaded
as stoutly as possible. Needless to say, no cattle were allowed to
remain in open pasturage. About 2 in the morning a frightful stench and
the savage barking of the dogs awakened the household at Elmer Frye's,
on the eastern edge of Cold Spring Glen, and all agreed that they
could hear a sort of muffled swishing or lapping sound from somewhere
outside. Mrs. Frye proposed telephoning the neighbors, and Elmer was
about to agree when the noise of splintering wood burst in upon their
deliberations. It came, apparently, from the barn; and was quickly
followed by a hideous screaming and stamping amongst the cattle. The
dogs slavered and crouched close to the feet of the fear-numbed family.
Frye lit a lantern through force of habit, but knew it would be death
to go out into that black farmyard. The children and the women-folk
whimpered, kept from screaming by some obscure, vestigial instinct
of defense which told them their lives depended on silence. At last
the noise of the cattle subsided to a pitiful moaning, and a great
snapping, crashing, and crackling ensued. The Fryes, huddled together
in the sitting-room, did not dare to move until the last echoes died
away far down in Cold Spring Glen. Then, amidst the dismal moans from
the stable and the demoniac piping of late whippoorwills in the glen,
Selina Frye tottered to the telephone and spread what news she could of
the second phase of the horror.

The next day all the countryside was in a panic; and cowed,
uncommunicative groups came and went where the fiendish thing had
occurred. Two titan swaths of destruction stretched from the glen
to the Frye farmyard, monstrous prints covered the bare patches of
ground, and one side of the old red barn had completely caved in. Of
the cattle, only about a quarter could be found and identified. Some of
these were in curious fragments, and all that survived had to be shot.
Earl Sawyer suggested that help be asked from Aylesbury or Arkham, but
others maintained it would be of no use. Old Zebulon Whateley, of a
branch that hovered about half-way between soundness and decadence,
made darkly wild suggestions about rites that ought to be practised on
the hilltops. He came of a line where tradition ran strong, and his
memories of chantings in the great stone circles were not altogether
connected with Wilbur and his grandfather.

Darkness fell upon a stricken countryside too passive to organize
for real defense. In a few cases closely related families would band
together and watch in the gloom under one roof; but, in general there
was only a repetition of the barricading of the night before, and a
futile, ineffective gesture of loading muskets and setting pitchforks
handily about. Nothing, however, occurred except some hill noises; and
when the day came there were many who hoped that the new horror had
gone as swiftly as it had come. There were even bold souls who proposed
an offensive expedition down in the glen, though they did not venture
to set an actual example to the still reluctant majority.

When night came again the barricading was repeated, though there was
less huddling together of families. In the morning both the Frye and
the Seth Bishop households reported excitement among the dogs and vague
sounds and stenches from afar, while early explorers noted with horror
a fresh set of the monstrous tracks in the road skirting Sentinel Hill.
As before, the sides of the road showed a bruising indicative of the
blasphemously stupendous bulk of the horror; whilst the conformation
of the tracks seemed to argue a passage in two directions, as if the
moving mountain had come from Cold Spring Glen and returned to it along
the same path. At the base of the hill a thirty-foot swath of crushed
shrubbery and saplings led steeply upward, and the seekers gasped when
they saw that even the most perpendicular places did not deflect the
inexorable trail. Whatever the horror was, it could scale a sheer stony
cliff of almost complete verticality; and as the investigators climbed
around to the hill's summit by safer routes they saw that the trail
ended--or rather, reversed--there.

It was here that the Whateleys used to build their hellish fires and
chant their hellish rituals by the table-like stone on May Eve and
Hallowmass. Now that very stone formed the center of a vast space
thrashed around by the mountainous horror, whilst upon its slightly
concave surface was a thick fetid deposit of the same tarry stickiness
observed on the floor of the ruined Whateley farmhouse when the horror
escaped. Men looked at one another and muttered. Then they looked down
the hill. Apparently the horror had descended by a route much the same
as that of its ascent. To speculate was futile. Reason, logic, and
normal ideas of motivation stood confounded. Only old Zebulon, who
was not with the group, could have done justice to the situation or
suggested a plausible explanation.

Thursday night began much like the others, but it ended less happily.
The whippoorwills in the glen had screamed with such unusual
persistence that many could not sleep, and about 3 a. m. all the party
telephones rang tremulously. Those who took down their receivers
heard a fright-mad voice shriek out, "Help, oh, my Gawd!..." and some
thought a crashing sound followed the breaking off of the exclamation.
There was nothing more. No one dared do anything, and no one knew
till morning whence the call came. Then those who had heard it called
everyone on the line, and found that only the Fryes did not reply. The
truth appeared an hour later, when a hastily assembled group of armed
men trudged out to the Frye place at the head of the glen. It was
horrible, yet hardly a surprize. There were more swaths and monstrous
prints, but there was no longer any house. It had caved in like an
egg-shell, and amongst the ruins nothing living or dead could be
discovered--only a stench and a tarry stickiness. The Elmer Fryes had
been erased from Dunwich.

8

In the meantime a quieter yet even more spiritually poignant phase of
the horror had been blackly unwinding itself behind the closed door of
a shelf-lined room in Arkham. The curious manuscript record or diary of
Wilbur Whateley, delivered to Miskatonic University for translation,
had caused much worry and bafflement among the experts in languages
both ancient and modern; its very alphabet, notwithstanding a general
resemblance to the heavily shaded Arabic used in Mesopotamia, being
absolutely unknown to any available authority. The final conclusion of
the linguists was that the text represented an artificial alphabet,
giving the effect of a cipher; though none of the usual methods of
cryptographic solution seemed to furnish any clue, even when applied
on the basis of every tongue the writer might conceivably have used.
The ancient books taken from Whateley's quarters, while absorbingly
interesting and in several cases promising to open up new and terrible
lines of research among philosophers and men of science, were of no
assistance whatever in this matter. One of them, a heavy tome with
an iron clasp, was in another unknown alphabet--this one of a very
different cast, and resembling Sanskrit more than anything else. The
old ledger was at length given wholly into the charge of Dr. Armitage,
both because of his peculiar interest in the Whateley matter, and
because of his wide linguistic learning and skill in the mystical
formulæ of antiquity and the Middle Ages.

Armitage had an idea that the alphabet might be something esoterically
used by certain forbidden cults which have come down from old times,
and which have inherited many forms and traditions from the wizards of
the Saracenic world. That question, however, he did not deem vital;
since it would be unnecessary to know the origin of the symbols if,
as he suspected, they were used as a cipher in a modern language. It
was his belief that, considering the great amount of text involved, the
writer would scarcely have wished the trouble of using another speech
than his own, save perhaps in certain special formulæ and incantations.
Accordingly he attacked the manuscript with the preliminary assumption
that the bulk of it was in English.

Dr. Armitage knew, from the repeated failures of his colleagues, that
the riddle was a deep and complex one, and that no simple mode of
solution could merit even a trial. All through late August he fortified
himself with the massed lore of cryptography, drawing upon the fullest
resources of his own library, and wading night after night amidst the
arcana of Trithemius' _Poligraphia_, Giambattista Porta's _De Furtivis
Literarum Notis_, De Vigenere's _Traité des Chiffres_, Falconer's
_Cryptomenysis Patefacta_, Davys' and Thicknesse's Eighteenth Century
treatises, and such fairly modern authorities as Blair, von Marten,
and Klüber's _Kryptographik_. He interspersed his study of the books
with attacks on the manuscript itself, and in time became convinced
that he had to deal with one of those subtlest and most ingenious of
cryptograms, in which many separate lists of corresponding letters are
arranged like the multiplication table, and the message built up with
arbitrary key-words known only to the initiated. The older authorities
seemed rather more helpful than the newer ones, and Armitage concluded
that the code of the manuscript was one of great antiquity, no doubt
handed down through a long line of mystical experimenters. Several
times he seemed near daylight, only to be set back by some unforeseen
obstacle. Then, as September approached, the clouds began to clear.
Certain letters, as used in certain parts of the manuscript, emerged
definitely and unmistakably; and it became obvious that the text was
indeed in English.

On the evening of September second the last major barrier gave way, and
Dr. Armitage read for the first time a continuous passage of Wilbur
Whateley's annals. It was in truth a diary, as all had thought; and
it was couched in a style clearly showing the mixed occult erudition
and general illiteracy of the strange being who wrote it. Almost the
first long passage that Armitage deciphered, an entry dated November
26, 1916, proved highly startling and disquieting. It was written, he
remembered, by a child of three and a half who looked like a lad of
twelve or thirteen.

    Today learned the Aklo for the Sabaoth, [it ran] which did not
    like, it being answerable from the hill and not from the air. That
    upstairs more ahead of me than I had thought it would be, and is
    not like to have much earth brain. Shot Elam Hutchins's collie
    Jack when he went to bite me, and Elam says he would kill me if he
    dast. I guess he won't. Grandfather kept me saying the Dho formula
    last night, and I think I saw the inner city at the 2 magnetic
    poles. I shall go to those poles when the earth is cleared off, if
    I can't break through with the Dho-Hna formula when I commit it.
    They from the air told me at Sabbat that it will be years before I
    can clear off the earth, and I guess Grandfather will be dead then,
    so I shall have to learn all the angles of the planes and all the
    formulas between the Yr and the Nhhngr. They from outside will
    help, but they can not take body without human blood. That upstairs
    looks it will have the right cast. I can see it a little when I
    make the Yoorish sign or blow the power of Ibn Ghazi at it, and it
    is near like them at May Eve on the Hill. The other face may wear
    off some. I wonder how I shall look when the earth is cleared and
    there are no earth beings on it. He that came with the Aklo Sabaoth
    said I may be transfigured, there being much of outside to work on.

Morning found Dr. Armitage in a cold sweat of terror and a frenzy of
wakeful concentration. He had not left the manuscript all night, but
sat at his table under the electric light turning page after page
with shaking hands as fast as he could decipher the cryptic text. He
had nervously telephoned his wife he would not be home, and when she
brought him a breakfast from the house he could scarcely dispose of a
mouthful. All that day he read on, now and then halted maddeningly as
a reapplication of the complex key became necessary. Lunch and dinner
were brought him, but he ate only the smallest fraction of either.
Toward the middle of the next night he drowsed off in his chair, but
soon woke out of a tangle of nightmares almost as hideous as the truths
and menaces to man's existence that he had uncovered.

On the morning of September fourth Professor Rice and Dr. Morgan
insisted on seeing him for a while, and departed trembling and
ashen-gray. That evening he went to bed, but slept only fitfully.
Wednesday--the next day--he was back at the manuscript, and began to
take copious notes both from the current sections and from those he had
already deciphered. In the small hours of that night he slept a little
in an easy-chair in his office, but was at the manuscript again before
dawn. Some time before noon his physician, Dr. Hartwell, called to see
him and insisted that he cease work. He refused, intimating that it was
of the most vital importance for him to complete the reading of the
diary, and promising an explanation in due course of time.

That evening, just as twilight fell, he finished his terrible perusal
and sank back exhausted. His wife, bringing his dinner, found him in a
half-comatose state; but he was conscious enough to warn her off with
a sharp cry when he saw her eyes wander toward the notes he had taken.
Weakly rising, he gathered up the scribbled papers and sealed them all
in a great envelope, which he immediately placed in his inside coat
pocket. He had sufficient strength to get home, but was so clearly in
need of medical aid that Dr. Hartwell was summoned at once. As the
doctor put him to bed he could only mutter over and over again, "_But
what, in God's name, can we do?_"

Dr. Armitage slept, but was partly delirious the next day. He made
no explanations to Hartwell, but in his calmer moments spoke of the
imperative need of a long conference with Rice and Morgan. His wilder
wanderings were very startling indeed, including frantic appeals
that something in a boarded-up farmhouse be destroyed, and fantastic
references to some plan for the extirpation of the entire human race
and all animal and vegetable life from the earth by some terrible elder
race of beings from another dimension. He would shout that the world
was in danger, since the Elder Things wished to strip it and drag it
away from the solar system and cosmos of matter into some other plane
or phase of entity from which it had once fallen, vigintillions of eons
ago. At other times he would call for the dreaded _Necronomicon_ and
the _Dæmonolatreia_ of Remigius, in which he seemed hopeful of finding
some formula to check the peril he conjured up.

"Stop them, stop them!" he would shout. "Those Whateleys meant to let
them in, and the worst of all is left! Tell Rice and Morgan we must do
something--it's a blind business, but I know how to make the powder....
It hasn't been fed since the second of August, when Wilbur came here to
his death, and at that rate...."

But Armitage had a sound physique despite his seventy-three years, and
slept off his disorder that night without developing any real fever. He
woke late Friday, clear of head, though sober, with a gnawing fear and
tremendous sense of responsibility. Saturday afternoon he felt able to
go over to the library and summon Rice and Morgan for a conference, and
the rest of that day and evening the three men tortured their brains
in the wildest speculation and the most desperate debate. Strange and
terrible books were drawn voluminously from the stack shelves and from
secure places of storage, and diagrams and formulæ were copied with
feverish haste and in bewildering abundance. Of skepticism there was
none. All three had seen the body of Wilbur Whateley as it lay on the
floor in a room of that very building, and after that not one of them
could feel even slightly inclined to treat the diary as a madman's
raving.

Opinions were divided as to notifying the Massachusetts State Police,
and the negative finally won. There were things involved which simply
could not be believed by those who had not seen a sample, as indeed was
made clear during certain subsequent investigations. Late at night the
conference disbanded without having developed a definite plan, but all
day Sunday Armitage was busy comparing formulæ and mixing chemicals
obtained from the college laboratory. The more he reflected on the
hellish diary, the more he was inclined to doubt the efficacy of any
material agent in stamping out the entity which Wilbur Whateley had
left behind him--the earth-threatening entity which, unknown to him,
was to burst forth in a few hours and become the memorable Dunwich
horror.

Monday was a repetition of Sunday with Dr. Armitage, for the task
in hand required an infinity of research and experiment. Further
consultations of the monstrous diary brought about various changes of
plan, and he knew that even in the end a large amount of uncertainty
must remain. By Tuesday he had a definite line of action mapped out,
and believed he would try a trip to Dunwich within a week. Then, on
Wednesday, the great shock came. Tucked obscurely away in a corner of
the _Arkham Advertiser_ was a facetious little item from the Associated
Press, telling what a record-breaking monster the bootleg whisky of
Dunwich had raised up. Armitage, half stunned, could only telephone
for Rice and Morgan. Far into the night they discussed, and the next
day was a whirlwind of preparation on the part of them all. Armitage
knew he would be meddling with terrible powers, yet saw that there was
no other way to annul the deeper and more malign meddling which others
had done before him.

9

Friday morning Armitage, Rice and Morgan set out by motor for Dunwich,
arriving at the village about 1 in the afternoon. The day was pleasant,
but even in the brightest sunlight a kind of quiet dread and portent
seemed to hover about the strangely domed hills and the deep, shadowy
ravines of the stricken region. Now and then on some mountain top a
gaunt circle of stones could be glimpsed against the sky. From the
air of hushed fright at Osborn's store they knew something hideous
had happened, and soon learned of the annihilation of the Elmer Frye
house and family. Throughout that afternoon they rode around Dunwich,
questioning the natives concerning all that had occurred, and seeing
for themselves with rising pangs of horror the drear Frye ruins with
their lingering traces of the tarry stickiness, the blasphemous tracks
in the Frye yard, the wounded Seth Bishop cattle, and the enormous
swaths of disturbed vegetation in various places. The trail up and down
Sentinel Hill seemed to Armitage of almost cataclysmic significance,
and he looked long at the sinister altarlike stone on the summit.

At length the visitors, apprised of a party of State Police which had
come from Aylesbury that morning in response to the first telephone
reports of the Frye tragedy, decided to seek out the officers and
compare notes as far as practicable. This, however, they found more
easily planned than performed; since no sign of the party could be
found in any direction. There had been five of them in a car, but now
the car stood empty near the ruins in the Frye yard. The natives, all
of whom had talked with the policemen, seemed at first as perplexed as
Armitage and his companions. Then old Sam Hutchins thought of something
and turned pale, nudging Fred Farr and pointing to the dank, deep
hollow that yawned close by.

"Gawd," he gasped, "I telled 'em not ter go daown into the glen, an' I
never thought nobody'd dew it with them tracks an' that smell an' the
whippoorwills a-screechin' daown thar in the dark o' noonday...."

A cold shudder ran through natives and visitors alike, and every ear
seemed strained in a kind of instinctive, unconscious listening.
Armitage, now that he had actually come upon the horror and its
monstrous work, trembled with the responsibility he felt to be
his. Night would soon fall, and it was then that the mountainous
blasphemy lumbered upon its eldritch course. _Negotium perambulans in
tenebris...._ The old librarian rehearsed the formulæ he had memorized,
and clutched the paper containing the alternative ones he had not
memorized. He saw that his electric flashlight was in working order.
Rice, beside him, took from a valise a metal sprayer of the sort used
in combating insects; whilst Morgan uncased the big-game rifle on which
he relied despite his colleague's warnings that no material weapon
would be of help.

Armitage, having read the hideous diary, knew painfully well what kind
of a manifestation to expect, but he did not add to the fright of the
Dunwich people by giving any hints or clues. He hoped that it might
be conquered without any revelation to the world of the monstrous
thing it had escaped. As the shadows gathered, the natives commenced
to disperse homeward, anxious to bar themselves indoors despite the
present evidence that all human locks and bolts were useless before a
force that could bend trees and crush houses when it chose. They shook
their heads at the visitors' plan to stand guard at the Frye ruins near
the glen; and as they left, had little expectancy of ever seeing the
watchers again.

There were rumblings under the hills that night, and the whippoorwills
piped threateningly. Once in a while a wind, sweeping up out of Cold
Spring Glen, would bring a touch of ineffable fetor to the heavy night
air; such a fetor as all three of the watchers had smelled once before,
when they stood above a dying thing that had passed for fifteen years
and a half as a human being. But the looked-for terror did not appear.
Whatever was down there in the glen was biding its time, and Armitage
told his colleagues it would be suicidal to try to attack it in the
dark.

Morning came wanly, and the night-sounds ceased. It was a gray, bleak
day, with now and then a drizzle of rain; and heavier and heavier
clouds seemed to be piling themselves up beyond the hills to the
northwest. The men from Arkham were undecided what to do. Seeking
shelter from the increasing rainfall beneath one of the few undestroyed
Frye outbuildings, they debated the wisdom of waiting, or of taking the
aggressive and going down into the glen in quest of their nameless,
monstrous quarry. The downpour waxed in heaviness, and distant peals of
thunder sounded from far horizons. Sheet lightning shimmered, and then
a forky bolt flashed near at hand, as if descending into the accursed
glen itself. The sky grew very dark, and the watchers hoped that the
storm would prove a short, sharp one followed by clear weather.

It was still gruesomely dark when, not much over an hour later, a
confused babel of voices sounded down the road. Another moment brought
to view a frightened group of more than a dozen men, running, shouting,
and even whimpering hysterically. Someone in the lead began sobbing out
words, and the Arkham men started violently when those words developed
a coherent form.

"Oh, my Gawd, my Gawd!" the voice choked out; "it's a-goin' agin, _an'
this time by day_! It's aout--it's aout an' a-movin' this very minute,
an' only the Lord knows when it'll be on us all!"

The speaker panted into silence, but another took up his message.

"Nigh on a haour ago Zeb Whateley here heerd the 'phone a-ringin', an'
it was Mis' Corey, George's wife that lives daown by the junction.
She says the hired boy Luther was aout drivin' in the caows from the
storm arter the big bolt, when he see all the trees a-bendin' at the
maouth o' the glen--opposite side ter this--an' smelt the same awful
smell like he smelt when he faound the big tracks las' Monday mornin'.
An' she says he says they was a swishin', lappin' saound, more nor
what the bendin' trees an' bushes could make, an' all on a suddent the
trees along the rud begun ter git pushed one side, an' they was a awful
stompin' an' splashin' in the mud. But mind ye, Luther he didn't see
nothin' at all, only jest the bendin' trees an' underbrush.

"Then fur ahead where Bishop's Brook goes under the rud he heerd a
awful creakin' an' strainin' on the bridge, an' says he could tell the
saound o' wood a-startin' to crack an' split. An' all the whiles he
never see a thing, only them trees an' bushes a-bendin'. An' when the
swishin' saound got very fur off--on the rud towards Wizard Whateley's
an' Sentinel Hill--Luther he had the guts ter step up whar he'd heerd
it fust an' look at the graound. It was all mud an' water, an' the sky
was dark, an' the rain was wipin' aout all tracks abaout as fast as
could be; but beginnin' at the glen maouth, whar the trees bed moved,
they was still some o' them awful prints big as bar'ls like he seen
Monday."

At this point the first excited speaker interrupted.

"But _that_ ain't the trouble naow--that was only the start. Zeb here
was callin' folks up an' everybody was a-listenin' in when a call from
Seth Bishop's cut in. His haousekeeper Sally was carryin' on fit ter
kill--she'd jest seed the trees a-bendin' beside the rud, an' says
they was a kind o' mushy saound, like a elephant puffin' an' treadin',
a-headin' fer the haouse. Then she up an' spoke suddent of a fearful
smell, an' says her boy Cha'ncey was a-screamin' as haow it was jest
like what he smelt up to the Whateley rewins Monday mornin'. An' the
dogs was all barkin' an' whinin' awful.

"An' then she let aout a turrible yell, an' says the shed daown the
rud hed jest caved in like the storm hed blowed it over, only the wind
wa'n't strong enough to dew that. Everybody was a-listenin', an' ye
could hear lots o' folks on the wire a-gaspin'. All to onct Sally she
yelled agin, an' says the front yard picket fence bed jest crumpled up,
though they wa'n't no sign o' what done it. Then everybody on the line
could hear Cha'ncey an' ol' Seth Bishop a-yellin', tew, an' Sally was
shriekin' aout that suthin' heavy hed struck the haouse--not lightnin'
nor nothin', but suthin' heavy agin' the front, that kep' a-launchin'
itself agin an' agin, though ye couldn't see nuthin' aout the front
winders. An' then ... an' then...."

Lines of fright deepened on every face; and Armitage, shaken as he was,
had barely poise enough to prompt the speaker.

"An' then ... Sally she yelled aout, 'O help, the haouse is a-cavin'
in' ... an' on the wire we could hoar a turrible crashin', an' a hull
flock o' screamin' ... jest like when Elmer Frye's place was took, only
wuss...."

The man paused, and another of the crowd spoke.

"That's all--not a saound nor squeak over the 'phone arter that. Jest
still-like. We that heerd it got aout Fords an' wagons an' raounded
up as many able-bodied men-folks as we could get, at Corey's place,
an' come up here ter see what yew thought best ter dew. Not but what I
think it's the Lord's judgment fer our iniquities, that no mortal kin
ever set aside."

Armitage saw that the time for positive action had come, and spoke
decisively to the faltering group of frightened rustics.

"We must follow it, boys." He made his voice as reassuring as possible.
"I believe there's a chance of putting it out of business. You men
know that those Whateleys were wizards--well, this thing is a thing
of wizardry, and must be put down by the same means. I've seen Wilbur
Whateley's diary and read some of the strange old books he used to
read, and I think I know the right kind of a spell to recite to make
the thing fade away. Of course, one can't be sure, but we can always
take a chance. It's invisible--I knew it would be--but there's a powder
in this long-distance sprayer that might make it show up for a second.
Later on we'll try it. It's a frightful thing to have alive, but it
isn't as bad as what Wilbur would have let in if he'd lived longer.
You'll never know what the world has escaped. Now we've only this one
thing to fight, and it can't multiply. It can, though, do a lot of
harm; so we mustn't hesitate to rid the community of it.

"We must follow it--and the way to begin is to go to the place that has
just been wrecked. Let somebody lead the way--I don't know your roads
very well, but I've an idea there might be a shorter cut across lots.
How about it?"

The men shuffled about a moment, and then Earl Sawyer spoke softly,
pointing with a grimy finger through the steadily lessening rain.

"I guess ye kin git to Seth Bishop's quickest by cuttin' acrost the
lower medder here, wadin' the brook at the low place, an' climbin'
through Carrier's mowin' an' the timber-lot beyont. That comes aout on
the upper rud mighty nigh Seth's--a leetle t'other side."

Armitage, with Rice and Morgan, started to walk in the direction
indicated; and most of the natives followed slowly. The sky was growing
lighter, and there were signs that the storm had worn itself away. When
Armitage inadvertently took a wrong direction, Joe Osborn warned him
and walked ahead to show the right one. Courage and confidence were
mounting; though the twilight of the almost perpendicular wooded hill
which lay toward the end of their short cut, and among whose fantastic
ancient trees they had to scramble as if up a ladder, put these
qualities to a severe test.

At length they emerged on a muddy road to find the sun coming out.
They were a little beyond the Seth Bishop place, but bent trees and
hideously unmistakable tracks showed what had passed by. Only a few
moments were consumed in surveying the ruins just around the bend. It
was the Frye incident all over again, and nothing dead or living was
found in either of the collapsed shells which had been the Bishop house
and barn. No one cared to remain there amidst the stench and the tarry
stickiness, but all turned instinctively to the line of horrible prints
leading on toward the wrecked Whateley farmhouse and the altar-crowned
slopes of Sentinel Hill.

As the men passed the site of Wilbur Whateley's abode they shuddered
visibly, and seemed again to mix hesitancy with their zeal. It was
no joke tracking down something as big as a house that one could not
see, but that had all the vicious malevolence of a demon. Opposite the
base of Sentinel Hill the tracks left the road, and there was a fresh
bending and matting visible along the broad swath marking the monster's
former route to and from the summit.

Armitage produced a pocket telescope of considerable power and scanned
the steep green side of the hill. Then he handed the instrument to
Morgan, whose sight was keener. After a moment of gazing Morgan cried
out sharply, passing the glass to Earl Sawyer and indicating a certain
spot on the slope with his finger. Sawyer, as clumsy as most non-users
of optical devices are, fumbled a while; but eventually focused the
lenses with Armitage's aid. When he did so his cry was less restrained
than Morgan's had been.

"Gawd almighty, the grass an' bushes is a-movin'! It's a-goin'
up--slow-like--creepin' up ter the top this minute, heaven only knows
what fer!"

Then the germ of panic seemed to spread among the seekers. It was one
thing to chase the nameless entity, but quite another to find it.
Spells might be all right--but suppose they weren't? Voices began
questioning Armitage about what he knew of the thing, and no reply
seemed quite to satisfy. Everyone seemed to feel himself in close
proximity to phases of nature and of being utterly forbidden, and
wholly outside the sane experience of mankind.

10

In the end the three men from Arkham--old, white-bearded Dr.
Armitage, stocky, iron-gray Professor Rice, and lean, youngish Dr.
Morgan--ascended the mountain alone. After much patient instruction
regarding its focusing and use, they left the telescope with the
frightened group that remained in the road; and as they climbed they
were watched closely by those among whom the glass was passed around.
It was hard going, and Armitage had to be helped more than once. High
above the toiling group the great swath trembled as its hellish maker
repassed with snail-like deliberateness. Then it was obvious that the
pursuers were gaining.

Curtis Whateley--of the undecayed branch--was holding the telescope
when the Arkham party detoured radically from the swath. He told the
crowd that the men were evidently trying to get to a subordinate peak
which overlooked the swath at a point considerably ahead of where the
shrubbery was now bending. This, indeed, proved to be true; and the
party were seen to gain the minor elevation only a short time after the
invisible blasphemy had passed it.

Then Wesley Corey, who had taken the glass, cried out that Armitage was
adjusting the sprayer which Rice held, and that something must be about
to happen. The crowd stirred uneasily, recalling that this sprayer was
expected to give the unseen horror a moment of visibility. Two or three
men shut their eyes, but Curtis Whateley snatched back the telescope
and strained his vision to the utmost. He saw that Rice, from the
party's point of vantage above and behind the entity, had an excellent
chance of spreading the potent powder with marvelous effect.

Those without the telescope saw only an instant's flash of gray
cloud--a cloud about the size of a moderately large building--near the
top of the mountain. Curtis, who had held the instrument, dropped it
with a piercing shriek into the ankle-deep mud of the road. He reeled,
and would have crumpled to the ground had not two or three others
seized and steadied him. All he could do was moan half-inaudibly:

"Oh, oh, great Gawd ... _that ... that_...."

[Illustration: "Oh, oh, great Gawd ... that ... that."]

There was a pandemonium of questioning, and only Henry Wheeler thought
to rescue the fallen telescope and wipe it clean of mud. Curtis was
past all coherence, and even isolated replies were almost too much for
him.

"Bigger 'n a barn ... all made o' squirmin' ropes ... hull thing sort
o' shaped like a hen's egg bigger'n anything, with dozens o' legs like
hogsheads that haff shut up when they step ... nothin' solid abaout
it--all like jelly, an' made o' sep'rit wrigglin' ropes pushed clost
together ... great bulgin' eyes all over it ... ten or twenty maouths
or trunks a-stickin' aout all along the sides, big as stovepipes, an'
all a-tossin' an' openin' an' shuttin' ... all gray, with kinder blue
or purple rings ... _an' Gawd in Heaven--that haff face on top_!..."

This final memory, whatever it was, proved too much for poor Curtis,
and he collapsed completely before he could say more. Fred Farr and
Will Hutchins carried him to the roadside and laid him on the damp
grass. Henry Wheeler, trembling, turned the rescued telescope on the
mountain to see what he might. Through the lenses were discernible
three tiny figures, apparently running toward the summit as fast as the
steep incline allowed. Only these--nothing more. Then everyone noticed
a strangely unseasonable noise in the deep valley behind, and even in
the underbrush of Sentinel Hill itself. It was the piping of unnumbered
whippoorwills, and in their shrill chorus there seemed to lurk a note
of tense and evil expectancy.

Earl Sawyer now took the telescope and reported the three figures as
standing on the topmost ridge, virtually level with the altar-stone
but at a considerable distance from it. One figure, he said, seemed
to be raising its hands above its head at rhythmic intervals; and
as Sawyer mentioned the circumstance the crowd seemed to hear a
faint, half-musical sound from the distance, as if a loud chant
were accompanying the gestures. The weird silhouette on that
remote peak must have been a spectacle of infinite grotesqueness
and impressiveness, but no observer was in a mood for esthetic
appreciation. "I guess he's sayin' the spell," whispered Wheeler as
he snatched back the telescope. The whippoorwills were piping wildly,
and in a singularly curious irregular rhythm quite unlike that of the
visible ritual.

Suddenly the sunshine seemed to lessen without the intervention of any
discernible cloud. It was a very peculiar phenomenon, and was plainly
marked by all. A rumbling sound seemed brewing beneath the hills, mixed
strangely with a concordant rumbling which clearly came from the sky.
Lightning flashed aloft, and the wondering crowd looked in vain for
the portents of storm. The chanting of the men from Arkham now became
unmistakable, and Wheeler saw through the glass that they were all
raising their arms in the rhythmic incantation. From some farmhouse far
away came the frantic barking of dogs.

The change in the quality of the daylight increased, and the crowd
gazed about the horizon in wonder. A purplish darkness, born of
nothing more than a spectral deepening of the sky's blue, pressed down
upon the rumbling hills. Then the lightning flashed again, somewhat
brighter than before, and the crowd fancied that it had showed a
certain mistiness around the altar-stone on the distant height. No
one, however, had been using the telescope at that instant. The
whippoorwills continued their irregular pulsation, and the men of
Dunwich braced themselves tensely against some imponderable menace with
which the atmosphere seemed surcharged.

Without warning came those deep, cracked, raucous vocal sounds which
will never leave the memory of the stricken group who heard them. Not
from any human throat were they born, for the organs of man can yield
no such acoustic perversions. Rather would one have said they came
from the pit itself, had not their source been so unmistakably the
altar-stone on the peak. It is almost erroneous to call them _sounds_
at all, since so much of their ghastly, infra-bass timbre spoke to
dim seats of consciousness and terror far subtler than the ear; yet
one must do so, since their form was indisputably though vaguely that
of half-articulate _words_. They were loud--loud as the rumblings and
the thunder above which they echoed--yet did they come from no visible
being. And because imagination might suggest a conjectural source in
the world of non-visible beings, the huddled crowd at the mountain's
base huddled still closer, and winced as if in expectation of a blow.

"_Ygnaiih ... ygnaiih ... thflthkh'ngha ... Yog-Sothoth...._" rang the
hideous croaking out of space. "_Y'bthnk ... h'ehye ... n'grkdl'lh...._"

The speaking impulse seemed to falter here, as if some frightful
psychic struggle were going on. Henry Wheeler strained his eye at
the telescope, but saw only the three grotesquely silhouetted human
figures on the peak, all moving their arms furiously in strange
gestures as their incantation drew near its culmination. From what
black wells of Acherontic fear or feeling, from what unplumbed gulfs of
extra-cosmic consciousness or obscure, long-latent heredity, were those
half-articulate thunder-croakings drawn? Presently they began to gather
renewed force and coherence as they grew in stark, utter, ultimate
frenzy.

"_Eh-ya-ya-ya-yahaah ... e'yaya-yayaaaa ... ngh'aaaa ... ngh'aaaa_ ...
h'yuh ... h'yuh ... HELP! HELP! ... _ff--ff--ff_--FATHER! FATHER!
YOG-SOTHOTH!..."

But that was all. The pallid group in the road, still reeling at
the _indisputably English_ syllables that had poured thickly and
thunderously down from the frantic vacancy beside that shocking
altar-stone, were never to hear such syllables again. Instead, they
jumped violently at the terrific report which seemed to rend the hills;
the deafening, cataclysmic peal whose source, be it inner earth or
sky, no hearer was ever able to place. A single lightning bolt shot
from the purple zenith to the altar-stone, and a great tidal wave of
viewless force and indescribable stench swept down from the hill to
all the countryside. Trees, grass, and underbrush were whipped into a
fury; and the frightened crowd at the mountain's base, weakened by the
lethal fetor that seemed about to asphyxiate them, were almost hurled
off their feet. Dogs howled from the distance, green grass and foliage
wilted to a curious, sickly yellow-gray, and over field and forest were
scattered the bodies of dead whippoorwills.

The stench left quickly, but the vegetation never came right again.
To this day there is something queer and unholy about the growths on
and around that fearsome hill. Curtis Whateley was only just regaining
consciousness when the Arkham men came slowly down the mountain in the
beams of a sunlight once more brilliant and untainted. They were grave
and quiet, and seemed shaken by memories and reflections even more
terrible than those which had reduced the group of natives to a state
of cowed quivering. In reply to a jumble of questions they only shook
their heads and reaffirmed one vital fact.

"The thing has gone for ever," Armitage said. "It has been split up
into what it was originally made of, and can never exist again. It was
an impossibility in a normal world. Only the least fraction was really
matter in any sense we know. It was like its father--and most of it has
gone back to him in some vague realm or dimension outside our material
universe; some vague abyss out of which only the most accursed rites of
human blasphemy could ever have called him for a moment on the hills."

There was a brief silence, and in that pause the scattered senses of
poor Curtis Whateley began to knit back into a sort of continuity; so
that he put his hands to his head with a moan. Memory seemed to pick
itself up where it had left off, and the horror of the sight that had
prostrated him burst in upon him again.

"_Oh, oh, my Gawd, that haff face ... that haff face on top of it ...
that face with the red eyes an' crinkly albino hair, an' no chin, like
the Whateleys.... It was a octopus, centipede, spider kind o' thing,
but they was a haff-shaped man's face on top of it, an' it looked like
Wizard Whateley's, only it was yards an' yards acrost...._"

He paused exhausted, as the whole group of natives stared in a
bewilderment not quite crystallized into fresh terror. Only old Zebulon
Whateley, who wanderingly remembered ancient things but who had been
silent heretofore, spoke aloud.

"Fifteen year' gone," he rambled, "I heerd Ol' Whateley say as haow
some day we'd hear a child o' Lavinny's a-callin' its father's name on
the top o' Sentinel Hill...."

But Joe Osborn interrupted him to question the Arkham men anew.

"_What was it, anyhaow_, an' haowever did young Wizard Whateley call it
aout o' the air it come from?"

Armitage chose his words carefully.

"It was--well, it was mostly a kind of force that doesn't belong in our
part of space; a kind of force that acts and grows and shapes itself
by other laws than those of our sort of Nature. We have no business
calling in such things from outside, and only very wicked people
and very wicked cults ever try to. There was some of it in Wilbur
Whateley himself--enough to make a devil and a precocious monster of
him, and to make his passing out a pretty terrible sight. I'm going
to burn his accursed diary, and if you men are wise you'll dynamite
that altar-stone up there, and pull down all the rings of standing
stones on the other hills. Things like that brought down the beings
those Whateleys were so fond of--the beings they were going to let in
tangibly to wipe out the human race and drag the earth off to some
nameless place for some nameless purpose.

"But as to this thing we've just sent back--the Whateleys raised it for
a terrible part in the doings that were to come. It grew fast and big
from the same reason that Wilbur grew fast and big--but it beat him
because it had a greater share of the _outsideness_ in it. You needn't
ask how Wilbur called it out of the air. He didn't call it out. _It was
his twin brother, but it looked more like the father than he did._"

The CALL of CTHULHU

By H.P. LOVECRAFT

[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
Weird Tales, February 1928.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

    "Of such great powers or beings there may be conceivably a
    survival ... a survival of a hugely remote period when ...
    consciousness was manifested, perhaps, in shapes and forms long
    since withdrawn before the tide of advancing humanity ... forms
    of which poetry and legend alone have caught a flying memory
    and called them gods, monsters, mythical beings of all sorts
    and kinds...."

                                                --_Algernon Blackwood._

[Illustration: "The ring of worshipers moved in endless bacchanale
between the ring of bodies and the ring of fire."][1]

[Footnote 1: Found among the papers of the late Francis Wayland
Thurston, of Boston.]

                       _1. The Horror in Clay._

The most merciful thing in the world, I think, is the inability of the
human mind to correlate all its contents. We live on a placid island
of ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity, and it was not
meant that we should voyage far. The sciences, each straining in its
own direction, have hitherto harmed us little; but some day the piecing
together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas
of reality, and of our frightful position therein, that we shall either
go mad from the revelation or flee from the deadly light into the peace
and safety of a new dark age.

Theosophists have guessed at the awesome grandeur of the cosmic cycle
wherein our world and human race form transient incidents. They have
hinted at strange survivals in terms which would freeze the blood if
not masked by a bland optimism. But it is not from them that there
came the single glimpse of forbidden eons which chills me when I think
of it and maddens me when I dream of it. That glimpse, like all dread
glimpses of truth, flashed out from an accidental piecing together of
separated things--in this case an old newspaper item and the notes of
a dead professor. I hope that no one else will accomplish this piecing
out; certainly, if I live, I shall never knowingly supply a link in
so hideous a chain. I think that the professor, too, intended to keep
silent regarding the part he knew, and that he would have destroyed his
notes had not sudden death seized him.

My knowledge of the thing began in the winter of 1926-27 with the death
of my grand-uncle, George Gammell Angell, Professor Emeritus of Semitic
languages in Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island. Professor
Angell was widely known as an authority on ancient inscriptions, and
had frequently been resorted to by the heads of prominent museums; so
that his passing at the age of ninety-two may be recalled by many.
Locally, interest was intensified by the obscurity of the cause of
death. The professor had been stricken whilst returning from the
Newport boat; falling suddenly, as witnesses said, after having been
jostled by a nautical-looking negro who had come from one of the queer
dark courts on the precipitous hillside which formed a short cut from
the waterfront to the deceased's home in Williams Street. Physicians
were unable to find any visible disorder, but concluded after perplexed
debate that some obscure lesion of the heart, induced by the brisk
ascent of so steep a hill by so elderly a man, was responsible for
the end. At the time I saw no reason to dissent from this dictum, but
latterly I am inclined to wonder--and more than wonder.

As my granduncle's heir and executor, for he died a childless widower,
I was expected to go over his papers with some thoroughness; and for
that purpose moved his entire set of files and boxes to my quarters in
Boston. Much of the material which I correlated will be later published
by the American Archeological Society, but there was one box which I
found exceedingly puzzling, and which I felt much averse from showing
to other eyes. It had been locked, and I did not find the key till
it occurred to me to examine the personal ring which the professor
carried always in his pocket. Then, indeed, I succeeded in opening it,
but when I did so seemed only to be confronted by a greater and more
closely locked barrier. For what could be the meaning of the queer clay
bas-relief and the disjointed jottings, ramblings, and cuttings which I
found? Had my uncle, in his latter years, become credulous of the most
superficial impostures? I resolved to search out the eccentric sculptor
responsible for this apparent disturbance of an old man's peace of mind.

The bas-relief was a rough rectangle less than an inch thick and about
five by six inches in area; obviously of modern origin. Its designs,
however, were far from modern in atmosphere and suggestion; for,
although the vagaries of cubism and futurism are many and wild, they do
not often reproduce that cryptic regularity which lurks in prehistoric
writing. And writing of some kind the bulk of these designs seemed
certainly to be; though my memory, despite much familiarity with the
papers and collections of my uncle, failed in any way to identify this
particular species, or even hint at its remotest affiliations.

Above these apparent hieroglyphics was a figure of evidently pictorial
intent, though its impressionistic execution forbade a very clear
idea of its nature. It seemed to be a sort of monster, or symbol
representing a monster, of a form which only a diseased fancy could
conceive. If I say that my somewhat extravagant imagination yielded
simultaneous pictures of an octopus, a dragon, and a human caricature,
I shall not be unfaithful to the spirit of the thing. A pulpy,
tentacled head surmounted a grotesque and scaly body with rudimentary
wings; but it was the _general outline_ of the whole which made it most
shockingly frightful. Behind the figure was a vague suggestion of a
Cyclopean architectural background.

The writing accompanying this oddity was, aside from a stack of
press cuttings, in Professor Angell's most recent hand; and made no
pretense to literary style. What seemed to be the main document was
headed "_CTHULHU CULT_" in characters painstakingly printed to avoid
the erroneous reading of a word so unheard-of. This manuscript was
divided into two sections, the first of which was headed "1925--Dream
and Dream Work of H. A. Wilcox, 7 Thomas St., Providence, R. I.," and
the second, "Narrative of Inspector John R. Legrasse, 121 Bienville
St., New Orleans, La., at 1908 A. A. S. Mtg--Notes on Same, & Prof.
Webb's Acct." The other manuscript papers were all brief notes, some
of them accounts of the queer dreams of different persons, some of
them citations from theosophical books and magazines (notably W.
Scott-Eliott's _Atlantis and the Lost Lemuria_), and the rest comments
on long-surviving secret societies and hidden cults, with references
to passages in such mythological and anthropological source-books
as Frazer's _Golden Bough_ and Miss Murray's _Witch-Cult in Western
Europe_. The cuttings largely alluded to outré mental illnesses and
outbreaks of group folly or mania in the spring of 1925.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first half of the principal manuscript told a very peculiar
tale. It appears that on March 1st, 1925, a thin, dark young man of
neurotic and excited aspect had called upon Professor Angell bearing
the singular clay bas-relief, which was then exceedingly damp and
fresh. His card bore the name of Henry Anthony Wilcox, and my uncle
had recognized him as the youngest son of an excellent family slightly
known to him, who had latterly been studying sculpture at the Rhode
Island School of Design and living alone at the Fleur-de-Lys Building
near that institution. Wilcox was a precocious youth of known genius
but great eccentricity, and had from childhood excited attention
through the strange stories and odd dreams he was in the habit of
relating. He called himself "psychically hypersensitive", but the staid
folk of the ancient commercial city dismissed him as merely "queer".
Never mingling much with his kind, he had dropped gradually from social
visibility, and was now known only to a small group of esthetes from
other towns. Even the Providence Art Club, anxious to preserve its
conservatism, had found him quite hopeless.

On the occasion of the visit, ran the professor's manuscript, the
sculptor abruptly asked for the benefit of his host's archeological
knowledge in identifying the hieroglyphics on the bas-relief. He
spoke in a dreamy, stilted manner which suggested pose and alienated
sympathy; and my uncle showed some sharpness in replying, for the
conspicuous freshness of the tablet implied kinship with anything but
archeology. Young Wilcox's rejoinder, which impressed my uncle enough
to make him recall and record it verbatim, was of a fantastically
poetic cast which must have typified his whole conversation, and which
I have since found highly characteristic of him. He said, "It is new,
indeed, for I made it last night in a dream of strange cities; and
dreams are older than brooding Tyre, or the contemplative Sphinx, or
garden-girdled Babylon."

It was then that he began that rambling tale which suddenly played upon
a sleeping memory and won the fevered interest of my uncle. There had
been a slight earthquake tremor the night before, the most considerable
felt in New England for some years; and Wilcox's imagination had been
keenly affected. Upon retiring, he had had an unprecedented dream of
great Cyclopean cities of Titan blocks and sky-flung monoliths, all
dripping with green ooze and sinister with latent horror. Hieroglyphics
had covered the walls and pillars, and from some undetermined point
below had come a voice that was not a voice; a chaotic sensation which
only fancy could transmute into sound, but which he attempted to render
by the almost unpronounceable jumble of letters, "_Cthulhu fhtagn_".

This verbal jumble was the key to the recollection which excited and
disturbed Professor Angell. He questioned the sculptor with scientific
minuteness; and studied with almost frantic intensity the bas-relief
on which the youth had found himself working, chilled and clad only
in his nightclothes, when waking had stolen bewilderingly over him.
My uncle blamed his old age, Wilcox afterward said, for his slowness
in recognizing both hieroglyphics and pictorial design. Many of his
questions seemed highly out of place to his visitor, especially those
which tried to connect the latter with strange cults or societies;
and Wilcox could not understand the repeated promises of silence
which he was offered in exchange for an admission of membership in
some widespread mystical or paganly religious body. When Professor
Angell became convinced that the sculptor was indeed ignorant of any
cult or system of cryptic lore, he besieged his visitor with demands
for future reports of dreams. This bore regular fruit, for after the
first interview the manuscript records daily calls of the young man,
during which he related startling fragments of nocturnal imagery whose
burden was always some terrible Cyclopean vista of dark and dripping
stone, with a subterrene voice or intelligence shouting monotonously
in enigmatical sense-impacts uninscribable save as gibberish. The two
sounds most frequently repeated are those rendered by the letters
"_Cthulhu_" and "_R'lyeh_".

On March 23rd, the manuscript continued, Wilcox failed to appear; and
inquiries at his quarters revealed that he had been stricken with an
obscure sort of fever and taken to the home of his family in Waterman
Street. He had cried out in the night, arousing several other artists
in the building, and had manifested since then only alternations of
unconsciousness and delirium. My uncle at once telephoned the family,
and from that time forward kept close watch of the case; calling
often at the Thayer Street office of Dr. Tobey, whom he learned to
be in charge. The youth's febrile mind, apparently, was dwelling on
strange things; and the doctor shuddered now and then as he spoke of
them. They included not only a repetition of what he had formerly
dreamed, but touched wildly on a gigantic thing "miles high" which
walked or lumbered about. He at no time fully described this object,
but occasional frantic words, as repeated by Dr. Tobey, convinced the
professor that it must be identical with the nameless monstrosity
he had sought to depict in his dream-sculpture. Reference to this
object, the doctor added, was invariably a prelude to the young man's
subsidence into lethargy. His temperature, oddly enough, was not
greatly above normal; but the whole condition was otherwise such as to
suggest true fever rather than mental disorder.

On April 2nd at about 3 p. m. every trace of Wilcox's malady suddenly
ceased. He sat upright in bed, astonished to find himself at home and
completely ignorant of what had happened in dream or reality since the
night of March 22nd. Pronounced well by his physician, he returned
to his quarters in three days; but to Professor Angell he was of no
further assistance. All traces of strange dreaming had vanished with
his recovery, and my uncle kept no record of his night-thoughts after a
week of pointless and irrelevant accounts of thoroughly usual visions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here the first part of the manuscript ended, but references to certain
of the scattered notes gave me much material for thought--so much, in
fact, that only the ingrained skepticism then forming my philosophy
can account for my continued distrust of the artist. The notes in
question were those descriptive of the dreams of various persons
covering the same period as that in which young Wilcox had had his
strange visitations. My uncle, it seems, had quickly instituted a
prodigiously far-flung body of inquiries amongst nearly all the friends
whom he could question without impertinence, asking for nightly reports
of their dreams, and the dates of any notable visions for some time
past. The reception of his request seems to have been varied; but
he must, at the very least, have received more responses than any
ordinary man could have handled without a secretary. This original
correspondence was not preserved, but his notes formed a thorough and
really significant digest. Average people in society and business--New
England's traditional "salt of the earth"--gave an almost completely
negative result, though scattered cases of uneasy but formless
nocturnal impressions appear here and there, always between March
23rd and April 2nd--the period of young Wilcox's delirium. Scientific
men were little more affected, though four cases of vague description
suggest fugitive glimpses of strange landscapes, and in one case there
is mentioned a dread of something abnormal.

It was from the artists and poets that the pertinent answers came,
and I know that panic would have broken loose had they been able to
compare notes. As it was, lacking their original letters, I half
suspected the compiler of having asked leading questions, or of having
edited the correspondence in corroboration of what he had latently
resolved to see. That is why I continued to feel that Wilcox, somehow
cognizant of the old data which my uncle had possessed, had been
imposing on the veteran scientist. These responses from esthetes told
a disturbing tale. From February 28th to April 2nd a large proportion
of them had dreamed very bizarre things, the intensity of the dreams
being immeasurably the stronger during the period of the sculptor's
delirium. Over a fourth of those who reported anything, reported
scenes and half-sounds not unlike those which Wilcox had described;
and some of the dreamers confessed acute fear of the gigantic nameless
thing visible toward the last. One case, which the note describes with
emphasis, was very sad. The subject, a widely known architect with
leanings toward theosophy and occultism, went violently insane on
the date of young Wilcox's seizure, and expired several months later
after incessant screamings to be saved from some escaped denizen of
hell. Had my uncle referred to these cases by name instead of merely
by number, I should have attempted some corroboration and personal
investigation; but as it was, I succeeded in tracing down only a
few. All of these, however, bore out the notes in full. I have often
wondered if all the objects of the professor's questioning felt as
puzzled as did this fraction. It is well that no explanation shall ever
reach them.

The press cuttings, as I have intimated, touched on cases of panic,
mania, and eccentricity during the given period. Professor Angell
must have employed a cutting bureau, for the number of extracts was
tremendous, and the sources scattered throughout the globe. Here
was a nocturnal suicide in London, where a lone sleeper had leaped
from a window after a shocking cry. Here likewise a rambling letter
to the editor of a paper in South America, where a fanatic deduces
a dire future from visions he has seen. A dispatch from California
describes a theosophist colony as donning white robes en masse for some
"glorious fulfilment" which never arrives, whilst items from India
speak guardedly of serious native unrest toward the end of March.
Voodoo orgies multiply in Haiti, and African outposts report ominous
mutterings. American officers in the Philippines find certain tribes
bothersome about this time, and New York policemen are mobbed by
hysterical Levantines on the night of March 22-23. The west of Ireland,
too, is full of wild rumor and legendry, and a fantastic painter named
Ardois-Bonnot hangs a blasphemous _Dream Landscape_ in the Paris spring
salon of 1926. And so numerous are the recorded troubles in insane
asylums that only a miracle can have stopped the medical fraternity
from noting strange parallelisms and drawing mystified conclusions.
A weird bunch of cuttings, all told; and I can at this date scarcely
envisage the callous rationalism with which I set them aside. But I
was then convinced that young Wilcox had known of the older matters
mentioned by the professor.

                 _2. The Tale of Inspector Legrasse._

The older matters which had made the sculptor's dream and bas-relief so
significant to my uncle formed the subject of the second half of his
long manuscript. Once before, it appears, Professor Angell had seen the
hellish outlines of the nameless monstrosity, puzzled over the unknown
hieroglyphics, and heard the ominous syllables which can be rendered
only as "_Cthulhu_"; and all this in so stirring and horrible a
connection that it is small wonder he pursued young Wilcox with queries
and demands for data.

This earlier experience had come in 1908, seventeen years before,
when the American Archeological Society held its annual meeting in
St. Louis. Professor Angell, as befitted one of his authority and
attainments, had had a prominent part in all the deliberations; and was
one of the first to be approached by the several outsiders who took
advantage of the convocation to offer questions for correct answering
and problems for expert solution.

The chief of these outsiders, and in a short time the focus of interest
for the entire meeting, was a commonplace-looking middle-aged man
who had traveled all the way from New Orleans for certain special
information unobtainable from any local source. His name was John
Raymond Legrasse, and he was by profession an inspector of police. With
him he bore the subject of his visit, a grotesque, repulsive, and
apparently very ancient stone statuette whose origin he was at a loss
to determine.

It must not be fancied that Inspector Legrasse had the least interest
in archeology. On the contrary, his wish for enlightenment was prompted
by purely professional considerations. The statuette, idol, fetish,
or whatever it was, had been captured some months before in the
wooded swamps south of New Orleans during a raid on a supposed voodoo
meeting; and so singular and hideous were the rites connected with
it, that the police could not but realize that they had stumbled on a
dark cult totally unknown to them, and infinitely more diabolic than
even the blackest of the African voodoo circles. Of its origin, apart
from the erratic and unbelievable tales extorted from the captured
members, absolutely nothing was to be discovered; hence the anxiety
of the police for any antiquarian lore which might help them to place
the frightful symbol, and through it track down the cult to its
fountain-head.

Inspector Legrasse was scarcely prepared for the sensation which his
offering created. One sight of the thing had been enough to throw the
assembled men of science into a state of tense excitement, and they
lost no time in crowding around him to gaze at the diminutive figure
whose utter strangeness and air of genuinely abysmal antiquity hinted
so potently at unopened and archaic vistas. No recognized school of
sculpture had animated this terrible object, yet centuries and even
thousands of years seemed recorded in its dim and greenish surface of
unplaceable stone.

The figure, which was finally passed slowly from man to man for close
and careful study, was between seven and eight inches in height, and of
exquisitely artistic workmanship. It represented a monster of vaguely
anthropoid outline, but with an octopuslike head whose face was a mass
of feelers, a scaly, rubbery-looking body, prodigious claws on hind
and fore feet, and long, narrow wings behind. This thing, which seemed
instinct with a fearsome and unnatural malignancy, was of a somewhat
bloated corpulence, and squatted evilly on a rectangular block or
pedestal covered with undecipherable characters. The tips of the wings
touched the back edge of the block, the seat occupied the center,
whilst the long, curved claws of the doubled-up, crouching hind legs
gripped the front edge and extended a quarter of the way down toward
the bottom of the pedestal. The cephalopod head was bent forward, so
that the ends of the facial feelers brushed the backs of huge forepaws
which clasped the croucher's elevated knees. The aspect of the whole
was abnormally lifelike, and the more subtly fearful because its source
was so totally unknown. Its vast, awesome, and incalculable age was
unmistakable; yet not one link did it show with any known type of art
belonging to civilization's youth--or indeed to any other time.

Totally separate and apart, its very material was a mystery; for the
soapy, greenish-black stone with its golden or iridescent flecks and
striations resembled nothing familiar to geology or mineralogy. The
characters along the base were equally baffling; and no member present,
despite a representation of half the world's expert learning in this
field, could form the least notion of even their remotest linguistic
kinship. They, like the subject and material, belonged to something
horribly remote and distinct from mankind as we know it; something
frightfully suggestive of old and unhallowed cycles of life in which
our world and our conceptions have no part.

And yet, as the members severally shook their heads and confessed
defeat at the inspector's problem, there was one man in that gathering
who suspected a touch of bizarre familiarity in the monstrous shape and
writing, and who presently told with some diffidence of the odd trifle
he knew. This person was the late William Channing Webb, professor of
anthropology in Princeton University, and an explorer of no slight note.

Professor Webb had been engaged, forty-eight years before, in a tour
of Greenland and Iceland in search of some Runic inscriptions which
he failed to unearth; and whilst high up on the West Greenland coast
had encountered a singular tribe or cult of degenerate Eskimos whose
religion, a curious form of devil-worship, chilled him with its
deliberate bloodthirstiness and repulsiveness. It was a faith of which
other Eskimos knew little, and which they mentioned only with shudders,
saying that it had come down from horribly ancient eons before ever the
world was made. Besides nameless rites and human sacrifices there were
certain queer hereditary rituals addressed to a supreme elder devil or
_tornasuk_; and of this Professor Webb had taken a careful phonetic
copy from an aged _angekok_ or wizard-priest, expressing the sounds in
Roman letters as best he knew how. But just now of prime significance
was the fetish which this cult had cherished, and around which they
danced when the aurora leaped high over the ice cliffs. It was, the
professor stated, a very crude bas-relief of stone, comprising a
hideous picture and some cryptic writing. And as far as he could tell,
it was a rough parallel in all essential features of the bestial thing
now lying before the meeting.

These data, received with suspense and astonishment by the assembled
members, proved doubly exciting to Inspector Legrasse; and he began at
once to ply his informant with questions. Having noted and copied an
oral ritual among the swamp cult-worshipers his men had arrested, he
besought the professor to remember as best he might the syllables taken
down amongst the diabolist Eskimos. There then followed an exhaustive
comparison of details, and a moment of really awed silence when both
detective and scientist agreed on the virtual identity of the phrase
common to two hellish rituals so many worlds of distance apart. What,
in substance, both the Eskimo wizards and the Louisiana swamp-priests
had chanted to their kindred idols was something very like this--the
word-divisions being guessed at from traditional breaks in the phrase
as chanted aloud:

        "_Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn._"

Legrasse had one point in advance of Professor Webb, for several among
his mongrel prisoners had repeated to him what older celebrants had
told them the words meant. This text, as given, ran something like this:

         "In his house at R'lyeh dead Cthulhu waits dreaming."

       *       *       *       *       *

And now, in response to a general urgent demand, Inspector Legrasse
related as fully as possible his experience with the swamp worshipers;
telling a story to which I could see my uncle attached profound
significance. It savored of the wildest dreams of myth-maker and
theosophist, and disclosed an astonishing degree of cosmic imagination
among such half-castes and pariahs as might be least expected to
possess it.

On November 1st, 1907, there had come to New Orleans police a frantic
summons from the swamp and lagoon country to the south. The squatters
there, mostly primitive but good-natured descendants of Lafitte's men,
were in the grip of stark terror from an unknown thing which had stolen
upon them in the night. It was voodoo, apparently, but voodoo of a more
terrible sort than they had ever known; and some of their women and
children had disappeared since the malevolent tom-tom had begun its
incessant beating far within the black haunted woods where no dweller
ventured. There were insane shouts and harrowing screams, soul-chilling
chants and dancing devil-flames; and, the frightened messenger added,
the people could stand it no more.

So a body of twenty police, filling two carriages and an automobile,
had set out in the late afternoon with the shivering squatter as a
guide. At the end of the passable road they alighted, and for miles
splashed on in silence through the terrible cypress woods where day
never came. Ugly roots and malignant hanging nooses of Spanish moss
beset them, and now and then a pile of dank stones or fragments of a
rotting wall intensified by its hint of morbid habitation a depression
which every malformed tree and every fungous islet combined to create.
At length the squatter settlement, a miserable huddle of huts, hove in
sight; and hysterical dwellers ran out to cluster around the group of
bobbing lanterns. The muffled beat of tom-toms was now faintly audible
far, far ahead; and a curdling shriek came at infrequent intervals
when the wind shifted. A reddish glare, too, seemed to filter through
the pale undergrowth beyond endless avenues of forest night. Reluctant
even to be left alone again, each one of the cowed squatters refused
point-blank to advance another inch toward the scene of unholy
worship, so Inspector Legrasse and his nineteen colleagues plunged on
unguided into black arcades of horror that none of them had ever trod
before.

The region now entered by the police was one of traditionally evil
repute, substantially unknown and untraversed by white men. There were
legends of a hidden lake unglimpsed by mortal sight, in which dwelt a
huge, formless white polypous thing with luminous eyes; and squatters
whispered that bat-winged devils flew up out of caverns in inner
earth to worship it at midnight. They said it had been there before
D'Iberville, before La Salle, before the Indians, and before even the
wholesome beasts and birds of the woods. It was nightmare itself, and
to see it was to die. But it made men dream, and so they knew enough to
keep away. The present voodoo orgy was, indeed, on the merest fringe
of this abhorred area, but that location was bad enough; hence perhaps
the very place of the worship had terrified the squatters more than the
shocking sounds and incidents.

Only poetry or madness could do justice to the noises heard by
Legrasse's men as they plowed on through the black morass toward the
red glare and the muffled tom-toms. There are vocal qualities peculiar
to men, and vocal qualities peculiar to beasts; and it is terrible
to hear the one when the source should yield the other. Animal fury
and orgiastic license here whipped themselves to demoniac heights by
howls and squawking ecstasies that tore and reverberated through those
nighted woods like pestilential tempests from the gulfs of hell. Now
and then the less organized ululations would cease, and from what
seemed a well-drilled chorus of hoarse voices would rise in singsong
chant that hideous phrase or ritual:

        "_Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn._"

Then the men, having reached a spot where the trees were thinner, came
suddenly in sight of the spectacle itself. Four of them reeled, one
fainted, and two were shaken into a frantic cry which the mad cacophony
of the orgy fortunately deadened. Legrasse dashed swamp water on the
face of the fainting man, and all stood trembling and nearly hypnotized
with horror.

In a natural glade of the swamp stood a grassy island of perhaps an
acre's extent, clear of trees and tolerably dry. On this now leaped and
twisted a more indescribable horde of human abnormality than any but a
Sime or an Angarola could paint. Void of clothing, this hybrid spawn
were braying, bellowing and writhing about a monstrous ring-shaped
bonfire; in the center of which, revealed by occasional rifts in the
curtain of flame, stood a great granite monolith some eight feet in
height; on top of which, incongruous in its diminutiveness, rested the
noxious carven statuette. From a wide circle of ten scaffolds set up
at regular intervals with the flame-girt monolith as a center hung,
head downward, the oddly marred bodies of the helpless squatters who
had disappeared. It was inside this circle that the ring of worshipers
jumped and roared, the general direction of the mass motion being from
left to right in endless bacchanale between the ring of bodies and the
ring of fire.

It may have been only imagination and it may have been only echoes
which induced one of the men, an excitable Spaniard, to fancy he heard
antiphonal responses to the ritual from some far and unillumined spot
deeper within the wood of ancient legendry and horror. This man, Joseph
D. Galvez, I later met and questioned; and he proved distractingly
imaginative. He indeed went so far as to hint of the faint beating of
great wings, and of a glimpse of shining eyes and a mountainous white
bulk beyond the remotest trees--but I suppose he had been hearing too
much native superstition.

Actually, the horrified pause of the men was of comparatively brief
duration. Duty came first; and although there must have been nearly a
hundred mongrel celebrants in the throng, the police relied on their
firearms and plunged determinedly into the nauseous rout. For five
minutes the resultant din and chaos were beyond description. Wild
blows were struck, shots were fired, and escapes were made; but in
the end Legrasse was able to count some forty-seven sullen prisoners,
whom he forced to dress in haste and fall into line between two rows
of policemen. Five of the worshipers lay dead, and two severely
wounded ones were carried away on improvised stretchers by their
fellow-prisoners. The image on the monolith, of course, was carefully
removed and carried back by Legrasse.

Examined at headquarters after a trip of intense strain and weariness,
the prisoners all proved to be men of a very low, mixed-blooded, and
mentally aberrant type. Most were seamen, and a sprinkling of negroes
and mulattoes, largely West Indians or Brava Portuguese from the Cape
Verde Islands, gave a coloring of voodooism to the heterogeneous cult.
But before many questions were asked, it became manifest that something
far deeper and older than negro fetishism was involved. Degraded and
ignorant as they were, the creatures held with surprizing consistency
to the central idea of their loathsome faith.

They worshiped, so they said, the Great Old Ones who lived ages before
there were any men, and who came to the young world out of the sky.
Those Old Ones were gone now, inside the earth and under the sea; but
their dead bodies had told their secrets in dreams to the first man,
who formed a cult which had never died. This was that cult, and the
prisoners said it had always existed and always would exist, hidden in
distant wastes and dark places all over the world until the time when
the great priest Cthulhu, from his dark house in the mighty city of
R'lyeh under the waters, should rise and bring the earth again beneath
his sway. Some day he would call, when the stars were ready, and the
secret cult would always be waiting to liberate him.

Meanwhile no more must be told. There was a secret which even torture
could not extract. Mankind was not absolutely alone among the conscious
things of earth, for shapes came out of the dark to visit the faithful
few. But these were not the Great Old Ones. No man had ever seen the
Old Ones. The carven idol was great Cthulhu, but none might say whether
or not the others were precisely like him. No one could read the old
writing now, but things were told by word of mouth. The chanted ritual
was not the secret--that was never spoken aloud, only whispered. The
chant meant only this: "In his house at R'lyeh dead Cthulhu waits
dreaming."

       *       *       *       *       *

Only two of the prisoners were found sane enough to be hanged, and
the rest were committed to various institutions. All denied a part
in the ritual murders, and averred that the killing had been done
by Black-winged Ones which had come to them from their immemorial
meeting-place in the haunted wood. But of those mysterious allies no
coherent account could ever be gained. What the police did extract
came mainly from an immensely aged mestizo named Castro, who claimed
to have sailed to strange ports and talked with undying leaders of the
cult in the mountains of China.

Old Castro remembered bits of hideous legend that paled the
speculations of theosophists and made man and the world seem recent
and transient indeed. There had been eons when other Things ruled on
the earth, and They had had great cities. Remains of Them, he said the
deathless Chinamen had told him, were still to be found as Cyclopean
stones on islands in the Pacific. They all died vast epochs of time
before man came, but there were arts which could revive Them when the
stars had come round again to the right positions in the cycle of
eternity. They had, indeed, come themselves from the stars, and brought
Their images with Them.

These Great Old Ones, Castro continued, were not composed altogether
of flesh and blood. They had shape--for did not this star-fashioned
image prove it?--but that shape was not made of matter. When the stars
were right, They could plunge from world to world through the sky;
but when the stars were wrong, They could not live. But although They
no longer lived, They would never really die. They all lay in stone
houses in Their great city of R'lyeh, preserved by the spells of mighty
Cthulhu for a glorious resurrection when the stars and the earth might
once more be ready for Them. But at that time some force from outside
must serve to liberate Their bodies. The spells that preserved Them
intact likewise prevented Them from making an initial move, and They
could only lie awake in the dark and think whilst uncounted millions
of years rolled by. They knew all that was occurring in the universe,
for Their mode of speech was transmitted thought. Even now They talked
in Their tombs. When, after infinities of chaos, the first men came,
the Great Old Ones spoke to the sensitive among them by molding their
dreams; for only thus could Their language reach the fleshly minds of
mammals.

Then, whispered Castro, those first men formed the cult around small
idols which the Great Ones showed them; idols brought in dim eras
from dark stars. That cult would never die till the stars came right
again, and the secret priests would take great Cthulhu from His tomb
to revive His subjects and resume His rule of earth. The time would
be easy to know, for then mankind would have become as the Great Old
Ones; free and wild and beyond good and evil, with laws and morals
thrown aside and all men shouting and killing and reveling in joy. Then
the liberated Old Ones would teach them new ways to shout and kill
and revel and enjoy themselves, and all the earth would flame with a
holocaust of ecstasy and freedom. Meanwhile the cult, by appropriate
rites, must keep alive the memory of those ancient ways and shadow
forth the prophecy of their return.

In the elder time chosen men had talked with the entombed Old Ones in
dreams, but then something had happened. The great stone city R'lyeh,
with its monoliths and sepulchers, had sunk beneath the waves; and the
deep waters, full of the one primal mystery through which not even
thought can pass, had cut off the spectral intercourse. But memory
never died, and high priests said that the city would rise again when
the stars were right. Then came out of the earth the black spirits of
earth, moldy and shadowy, and full of dim rumors picked up in caverns
beneath forgotten sea-bottoms. But of them old Castro dared not speak
much. He cut himself off hurriedly, and no amount of persuasion or
subtlety could elicit more in this direction. The _size_ of the Old
Ones, too, he curiously declined to mention. Of the cult, he said that
he thought the center lay amid the pathless deserts of Arabia, where
Irem, the City of Pillars, dreams hidden and untouched. It was not
allied to the European witch-cult, and was virtually unknown beyond its
members. No book had ever really hinted of it, though the deathless
Chinamen said that there were double meanings in the _Necronomicon_
of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred which the initiated might read as they
chose, especially the much-discussed couplet:

    "That is not dead which can eternal lie,
    And with strange eons even death may die."

Legrasse, deeply impressed and not a little bewildered, had inquired
in vain concerning the historic affiliations of the cult. Castro,
apparently, had told the truth when he said that it was wholly
secret. The authorities at Tulane University could shed no light upon
either cult or image, and now the detective had come to the highest
authorities in the country and met with no more than the Greenland tale
of Professor Webb.

       *       *       *       *       *

The feverish interest aroused at the meeting by Legrasse's tale,
corroborated as it was by the statuette, is echoed in the subsequent
correspondence of those who attended, although scant mention occurs in
the formal publication of the society. Caution is the first care of
those accustomed to face occasional charlatanry and imposture. Legrasse
for some time lent the image to Professor Webb, but at the latter's
death it was returned to him and remains in his possession, where I
viewed it not long ago. It is truly a terrible thing, and unmistakably
akin to the dream-sculpture of young Wilcox.

That my uncle was excited by the tale of the sculptor I did not
wonder, for what thoughts must arise upon hearing, after a knowledge
of what Legrasse had learned of the cult, of a sensitive young man
who had _dreamed_ not only the figure and exact hieroglyphics of the
swamp-found image and the Greenland devil tablet, but had come _in his
dreams_ upon at least three of the precise words of the formula uttered
alike by Eskimo diabolists and mongrel Louisianans? Professor Angell's
instant start on an investigation of the utmost thoroughness was
eminently natural; though privately I suspected young Wilcox of having
heard of the cult in some indirect way, and of having invented a series
of dreams to heighten and continue the mystery at my uncle's expense.
The dream-narratives and cuttings collected by the professor were, of
course, strong corroboration; but the rationalism of my mind and the
extravagance of the whole subject led me to adopt what I thought the
most sensible conclusions. So, after thoroughly studying the manuscript
again and correlating the theosophical and anthropological notes with
the cult narrative of Legrasse, I made a trip to Providence to see
the sculptor and give him the rebuke I thought proper for so boldly
imposing upon a learned and aged man.

Wilcox still lived alone in the Fleur-de-Lys Building in Thomas
Street, a hideous Victorian imitation of Seventeenth Century Breton
architecture which flaunts its stuccoed front amidst the lovely
Colonial houses on the ancient hill, and under the very shadow of the
finest Georgian steeple in America. I found him at work in his rooms,
and at once conceded from the specimens scattered about that his genius
is indeed profound and authentic. He will, I believe, be heard from
sometime as one of the great decadents; for he has crystallized in clay
and will one day mirror in marble those nightmares and fantasies which
Arthur Machen evokes in prose, and Clark Ashton Smith makes visible in
verse and in painting.

Dark, frail, and somewhat unkempt in aspect, he turned languidly at my
knock and asked me my business without rising. When I told him who I
was, he displayed some interest; for my uncle had excited his curiosity
in probing his strange dreams, yet had never explained the reason for
the study. I did not enlarge his knowledge in this regard, but sought
with some subtlety to draw him out.

In a short time I became convinced of his absolute sincerity, for he
spoke of the dreams in a manner none could mistake. They and their
subconscious residuum had influenced his art profoundly, and he showed
me a morbid statue whose contours almost made me shake with the potency
of its black suggestion. He could not recall having seen the original
of this thing except in his own dream bas-relief, but the outlines had
formed themselves insensibly under his hands. It was, no doubt, the
giant shape he had raved of in delirium. That he really knew nothing of
the hidden cult, save from what my uncle's relentless catechism had let
fall, he soon made clear; and again I strove to think of some way in
which he could possibly have received the weird impressions.

He talked of his dreams in a strangely poetic fashion; making me
see with terrible vividness the damp Cyclopean city of slimy green
stone--whose _geometry_, he oddly said, was _all wrong_--and hear
with frightened expectancy the ceaseless, half-mental calling from
underground: "_Cthulhu fhtagn_," "_Cthulhu fhtagn_."

These words had formed part of that dread ritual which told of dead
Cthulhu's dream-vigil in his stone vault at R'lyeh, and I felt deeply
moved despite my rational beliefs. Wilcox, I was sure, had heard of
the cult in some casual way, and had soon forgotten it amidst the mass
of his equally weird reading and imagining. Later, by virtue of its
sheer impressiveness, it had found subconscious expression in dreams,
in the bas-relief, and in the terrible statue I now beheld; so that his
imposture upon my uncle had been a very innocent one. The youth was of
a type, at once slightly affected and slightly ill-mannered, which I
could never like; but I was willing enough now to admit both his genius
and his honesty. I took leave of him amicably, and wish him all the
success his talent promises.

The matter of the cult still remained to fascinate me, and at times
I had visions of personal fame from researches into its origin and
connections. I visited New Orleans, talked with Legrasse and others
of that old-time raiding-party, saw the frightful image, and even
questioned such of the mongrel prisoners as still survived. Old Castro,
unfortunately, had been dead for some years. What I now heard so
graphically at first hand, though it was really no more than a detailed
confirmation of what my uncle had written, excited me afresh; for I
felt sure that I was on the track of a very real, very secret, and
very ancient religion whose discovery would make me an anthropologist
of note. My attitude was still one of absolute materialism, _as I wish
it still were_, and I discounted with almost inexplicable perversity
the coincidence of the dream notes and odd cuttings collected by
Professor Angell.

One thing which I began to suspect, and which I now fear I _know_, is
that my uncle's death was far from natural. He fell on a narrow hill
street leading up from an ancient waterfront swarming with foreign
mongrels, after a careless push from a negro sailor. I did not forget
the mixed blood and marine pursuits of the cult-members in Louisiana,
and would not be surprized to learn of secret methods and poison
needles as ruthless and as anciently known as the cryptic rites and
beliefs. Legrasse and his men, it is true, have been let alone; but in
Norway a certain seaman who saw things is dead. Might not the deeper
inquiries of my uncle after encountering the sculptor's data have come
to sinister ears? I think Professor Angell died because he knew too
much, or because he was likely to learn too much. Whether I shall go as
he did remains to be seen, for I have learned much now.

                    _3. The Madness from the Sea._

If heaven ever wishes to grant me a boon, it will be a total effacing
of the results of a mere chance which fixed my eye on a certain stray
piece of shelf-paper. It was nothing on which I would naturally have
stumbled in the course of my daily round, for it was an old number of
an Australian journal, _Sydney Bulletin_ for April 18, 1925. It had
escaped even the cutting bureau which had at the time of its issuance
been avidly collecting material for my uncle's research.

I had largely given over my inquiries into what Professor Angell called
the "Cthulhu Cult," and was visiting a learned friend of Paterson,
New Jersey, the curator of a local museum and a mineralogist of note.
Examining one day the reserve specimens roughly set on the storage
shelves in a rear room of the museum, my eye was caught by an odd
picture in one of the old papers spread beneath the stones. It was the
_Sydney Bulletin_ I have mentioned, for my friend has wide affiliations
in all conceivable foreign parts; and the picture was a half-tone cut
of a hideous stone image almost identical with that which Legrasse had
found in the swamp.

Eagerly clearing the sheet of its precious contents, I scanned the item
in detail; and was disappointed to find it of only moderate length.
What it suggested, however, was of portentous significance to my
flagging quest; and I carefully tore it out for immediate action. It
read as follows:

                     MYSTERY DERELICT FOUND AT SEA

    _Vigilant_ Arrives With Helpless Armed New Zealand Yacht in Tow.
    One Survivor and Dead Man Found Aboard. Tale of Desperate Battle
    and Deaths at Sea. Rescued Seaman Refuses Particulars of Strange
    Experience. Odd Idol Found in His Possession. Inquiry to Follow.

        *       *       *       *       *

    The Morrison Co.'s freighter _Vigilant_, bound from Valparaiso,
    arrived this morning at its wharf in Darling Harbour, having in tow
    the battled and disabled but heavily armed steam yacht _Alert_ of
    Dunedin, N. Z., which was sighted April 12th in S. Latitude 34° 21',
    W. Longitude 152° 17', with one living and one dead man aboard.

    The _Vigilant_ left Valparaiso March 25th, and on April 2d was
    driven considerably south of her course by exceptionally heavy
    storms and monster waves. On April 12th the derelict was sighted;
    and though apparently deserted, was found upon boarding to contain
    one survivor in a half-delirious condition and one man who had
    evidently been dead for more than a week.

    The living man was clutching a horrible stone idol of unknown
    origin, about a foot in height, regarding whose nature authorities
    at Sydney University, the Royal Society, and the Museum in College
    Street all profess complete bafflement, and which the survivor says
    he found in the cabin of the yacht, in a small carved shrine of
    common pattern.

    This man, after recovering his senses, told an exceedingly strange
    story of piracy and slaughter. He is Gustaf Johansen, a Norwegian
    of some intelligence, and had been second mate of the two-masted
    schooner _Emma_ of Auckland, which sailed for Callao February 20th,
    with a complement of eleven men.

    The _Emma_, he says, was delayed and thrown widely south of her
    course by the great storm of March 1st, and on March 22d, in S.
    Latitude 49° 51´, W. Longitude 128° 34´, encountered the _Alert_,
    manned by a queer and evil-looking crew of Kanakas and half-castes.
    Being ordered peremptorily to turn back, Capt. Collins refused;
    whereupon the strange crew began to fire savagely and without
    warning upon the schooner with a peculiarly heavy battery of brass
    cannon forming part of the yacht's equipment.

    The _Emma's_ men showed fight, says the survivor, and though the
    schooner began to sink from shots beneath the waterline they managed
    to heave alongside their enemy and board her, grappling with the
    savage crew on the yacht's deck, and being forced to kill them all,
    the number being slightly superior, because of their particularly
    abhorrent and desperate though rather clumsy mode of fighting.

    Three of the _Emma's_ men, including Capt. Collins and First Mate
    Green, were killed; and the remaining eight under Second Mate
    Johansen proceeded to navigate the captured yacht, going ahead in
    their original direction to see if any reason for their ordering
    back had existed.

    The next day, it appears, they raised and landed on a small island,
    although none is known to exist in that part of the ocean; and six
    of the men somehow died ashore, though Johansen is queerly reticent
    about this part of his story and speaks only of their falling into
    a rock chasm.

    Later, it seems, he and one companion boarded the yacht and tried
    to manage her, but were beaten about by the storm of April 2nd.

    From that time till his rescue on the 12th, the man remembers
    little, and he does not even recall when William Briden, his
    companion, died. Briden's death reveals no apparent cause, and was
    probably due to excitement or exposure.

    Cable advices from Dunedin report that the _Alert_ was well known
    there as an island trader, and bore an evil reputation along the
    waterfront. It was owned by a curious group of half-castes whose
    frequent meetings and night trips to the woods attracted no little
    curiosity; and it had set sail in great haste just after the storm
    and earth tremors of March 1st.

    Our Auckland correspondent gives the _Emma_ and her crew an
    excellent reputation, and Johansen is described as a sober and
    worthy man.

    The admiralty will institute an inquiry on the whole matter
    beginning tomorrow, at which every effort will be made to induce
    Johansen to speak more freely than he has done hitherto.

       *       *       *       *       *

This was all, together with the picture of the hellish image; but what
a train of ideas it started in my mind! Here were new treasuries of
data on the Cthulhu Cult, and evidence that it had strange interests
at sea as well as on land. What motive prompted the hybrid crew to
order back the _Emma_ as they sailed about with their hideous idol?
What was the unknown island on which six of the _Emma's_ crew had
died, and about which the mate Johansen was so secretive? What had the
vice-admiralty's investigation brought out, and what was known of the
noxious cult in Dunedin? And most marvelous of all, what deep and more
than natural linkage of dates was this which gave a malign and now
undeniable significance to the various turns of events so carefully
noted by my uncle?

March 1st--our February 28th according to the International Date
Line--the earthquake and storm had come. From Dunedin the _Alert_ and
her noisome crew had darted eagerly forth as if imperiously summoned,
and on the other side of the earth poets and artists had begun to
dream of a strange, dank Cyclopean city whilst a young sculptor had
molded in his sleep the form of the dreaded Cthulhu. March 23rd the
crew of the _Emma_ landed on an unknown island and left six men dead;
and on that date the dreams of sensitive men assumed a heightened
vividness and darkened with dread of a giant monster's malign pursuit,
whilst an architect had gone mad and a sculptor had lapsed suddenly
into delirium! And what of this storm of April 2nd--the date on which
all dreams of the dank city ceased, and Wilcox emerged unharmed from
the bondage of strange fever? What of all this--and of those hints of
old Castro about the sunken, star-born Old Ones and their coming reign;
their faithful cult _and their mastery of dreams_? Was I tottering on
the brink of cosmic horrors beyond man's power to bear? If so, they
must be horrors of the mind alone, for in some way the second of April
had put a stop to whatever monstrous menace had begun its siege of
mankind's soul.

       *       *       *       *       *

That evening, after a day of hurried cabling and arranging, I bade my
host adieu and took a train for San Francisco. In less than a month
I was in Dunedin; where, however, I found that little was known of
the strange cult-members who had lingered in the old sea taverns.
Waterfront scum was far too common for special mention; though there
was vague talk about one inland trip these mongrels had made, during
which faint drumming and red flame were noted on the distant hills.

In Auckland I learned that Johansen had returned _with yellow hair
turned white_ after a perfunctory and inconclusive questioning at
Sydney, and had thereafter sold his cottage in West Street and sailed
with his wife to his old home in Oslo. Of his stirring experience
he would tell his friends no more than he had told the admiralty
officials, and all they could do was to give me his Oslo address.

After that I went to Sydney and talked profitlessly with seamen and
members of the vice-admiralty court. I saw the _Alert_, now sold and
in commercial use, at Circular Quay in Sydney Cove, but gained nothing
from its non-committal bulk. The crouching image with its cuttlefish
head, dragon body, scaly wings, and hieroglyphed pedestal, was
preserved in the Museum at Hyde Park; and I studied it long and well,
finding it a thing of balefully exquisite workmanship, and with the
same utter mystery, terrible antiquity, and unearthly strangeness of
material which I had noted in Legrasse's smaller specimen. Geologists,
the curator told me, had found it a monstrous puzzle; for they vowed
that the world held no rock like it. Then I thought with a shudder of
what old Castro had told Legrasse about the primal Great Ones: "They
had come from the stars, and had brought Their images with Them."

Shaken with such a mental revolution as I had never before known, I
now resolved to visit Mate Johansen in Oslo. Sailing for London, I
re-embarked at once for the Norwegian capital; and one autumn day
landed at the trim wharves in the shadow of the Egeberg.

Johansen's address, I discovered, lay in the Old Town of King Harold
Haardrada, which kept alive the name of Oslo during all the centuries
that the greater city masqueraded as "Christiania." I made the brief
trip by taxicab, and knocked with palpitant heart at the door of a neat
and ancient building with plastered front. A sad-faced woman in black
answered my summons, and I was stung with disappointment when she told
me in halting English that Gustaf Johansen was no more.

He had not long survived his return, said his wife, for the doings at
sea in 1925 had broken him. He had told her no more than he had told
the public, but had left a long manuscript--of "technical matters" as
he said--written in English, evidently in order to safeguard her from
the peril of casual perusal. During a walk through a narrow lane near
the Gothenburg dock, a bundle of papers falling from an attic window
had knocked him down. Two Lascar sailors at once helped him to his
feet, but before the ambulance could reach him he was dead. Physicians
found no adequate cause for the end, and laid it to heart trouble and a
weakened constitution.

I now felt gnawing at my vitals that dark terror which will never leave
me till I, too, am at rest; "accidentally" or otherwise. Persuading the
widow that my connection with her husband's "technical matters" was
sufficient to entitle me to his manuscript, I bore the document away
and began to read it on the London boat.

It was a simple, rambling thing--a naive sailor's effort at a
post-facto diary--and strove to recall day by day that last awful
voyage. I can not attempt to transcribe it verbatim in all its
cloudiness and redundance, but I will tell its gist enough to show why
the sound of the water against the vessel's sides became so unendurable
to me that I stopped my ears with cotton.

Johansen, thank God, did not know quite all, even though he saw the
city and the Thing, but I shall never sleep calmly again when I think
of the horrors that lurk ceaselessly behind life in time and in space,
and of those unhallowed blasphemies from elder stars which dream
beneath the sea, known and favored by a nightmare cult ready and eager
to loose them on the world whenever another earthquake shall heave
their monstrous stone city again to the sun and air.

       *       *       *       *       *

Johansen's voyage had begun just as he told it to the vice-admiralty.
The _Emma_, in ballast, had cleared Auckland on February 20th, and had
felt the full force of that earthquake-born tempest which must have
heaved up from the sea-bottom the horrors that filled men's dreams.
Once more under control, the ship was making good progress when held
up by the _Alert_ on March 22nd, and I could feel the mate's regret as
he wrote of her bombardment and sinking. Of the swarthy cult-fiends
on the _Alert_ he speaks with significant horror. There was some
peculiarly abominable quality about them which made their destruction
seem almost a duty, and Johansen shows ingenuous wonder at the charge
of ruthlessness brought against his party during the proceedings of the
court of inquiry. Then, driven ahead by curiosity in their captured
yacht under Johansen's command, the men sight a great stone pillar
sticking out of the sea, and in S. Latitude 47° 9', W. Longitude 126°
43' come upon a coastline of mingled mud, ooze, and weedy Cyclopean
masonry which can be nothing less than the tangible substance of
earth's supreme terror--the nightmare corpse-city of R'lyeh, that
was built in measureless eons behind history by the vast, loathsome
shapes that seeped down from the dark stars. There lay great Cthulhu
and his hordes, hidden in green slimy vaults and sending out at last,
after cycles incalculable, the thoughts that spread fear to the dreams
of the sensitive and called imperiously to the faithful to come on a
pilgrimage of liberation and restoration. All this Johansen did not
suspect, but God knows he soon saw enough!

I suppose that only a single mountain-top, the hideous monolith-crowned
citadel whereon great Cthulhu was buried, actually emerged from the
waters. When I think of the _extent_ of all that may be brooding down
there I almost wish to kill myself forthwith. Johansen and his men were
awed by the cosmic majesty of this dripping Babylon of elder demons,
and must have guessed without guidance that it was nothing of this or
of any sane planet. Awe at the unbelievable size of the greenish stone
blocks, at the dizzying height of the great carven monolith, and at the
stupefying identity of the colossal statues and bas-reliefs with the
queer image found in the shrine on the _Alert_, is poignantly visible
in every line of the mate's frightened description.

Without knowing what futurism is like, Johansen achieved something
very close to it when he spoke of the city; for instead of describing
any definite structure or building, he dwells only on the broad
impressions of vast angles and stone surfaces--surfaces too great to
belong to anything right or proper for this earth, and impious with
horrible images and hieroglyphs. I mention his talk about _angles_
because it suggests something Wilcox had told me of his awful dreams.
He had said that the _geometry_ of the dream-place he saw was abnormal,
non-Euclidean, and loathsomely redolent of spheres and dimensions apart
from ours. Now an unlettered seaman felt the same thing whilst gazing
at the terrible reality.

Johansen and his men landed at a sloping mud-bank on this monstrous
Acropolis, and clambered slipperily up over titan oozy blocks which
could have been no mortal staircase. The very sun of heaven seemed
distorted when viewed through the polarizing miasma welling out from
this sea-soaked perversion, and twisted menace and suspense lurked
leeringly in those crazily elusive angles of carven rock where a second
glance showed concavity after the first showed convexity.

Something very like fright had come over all the explorers before
anything more definite than rock and ooze and weed was seen. Each
would have fled had he not feared the scorn of the others, and it was
only half-heartedly that they searched--vainly, as it proved--for some
portable souvenir to bear away.

It was Rodriguez the Portuguese who climbed up the foot of the monolith
and shouted of what he had found. The rest followed him, and looked
curiously at the immense carved door with the now familiar squid-dragon
bas-relief. It was, Johansen said, like a great barn-door; and they all
felt that it was a door because of the ornate lintel, threshold, and
jambs around it, though they could not decide whether it lay flat like
a trap-door or slantwise like an outside cellar-door. As Wilcox would
have said, the geometry of the place was all wrong. One could not be
sure that the sea and the ground were horizontal, hence the relative
position of everything else seemed fantasmally variable.

Briden pushed at the stone in several places without result. Then
Donovan felt over it delicately around the edge, pressing each point
separately as he went. He climbed interminably along the grotesque
stone molding--that is, one would call it climbing if the thing was not
after all horizontal--and the men wondered how any door in the universe
could be so vast. Then, very softly and slowly, the acre-great panel
began to give inward at the top; and they saw that it was balanced.

Donovan slid or somehow propelled himself down or along the jamb and
rejoined his fellows, and everyone watched the queer recession of the
monstrously carven portal. In this fantasy of prismatic distortion it
moved anomalously in a diagonal way, so that all the rules of matter
and perspective seemed upset.

The aperture was black with a darkness almost material. That
tenebrousness was indeed a _positive quality_; for it obscured such
parts of the inner walls as ought to have been revealed, and actually
burst forth like smoke from its eon-long imprisonment, visibly
darkening the sun as it slunk away into the shrunken and gibbous sky
on flapping membranous wings. The odor arising from the newly opened
depths was intolerable, and at length the quick-eared Hawkins thought
he heard a nasty, slopping sound down there. Everyone listened, and
everyone was listening still when It lumbered slobberingly into sight
and gropingly squeezed Its gelatinous green immensity through the black
doorway into the tainted outside air of that poison city of madness.

Poor Johansen's handwriting almost gave out when he wrote of this. Of
the six men who never reached the ship, he thinks two perished of pure
fright in that accursed instant. The Thing can not be described--there
is no language for such abysms of shrieking and immemorial lunacy,
such eldritch contradictions of all matter, force, and cosmic order.
A mountain walked or stumbled. God! What wonder that across the earth
a great architect went mad, and poor Wilcox raved with fever in that
telepathic instant? The Thing of the idols, the green, sticky spawn of
the stars, had awaked to claim his own. The stars were right again, and
what an age-old cult had failed to do by design, a band of innocent
sailors had done by accident. After vigintillions of years great
Cthulhu was loose again, and ravening for delight.

Three men were swept up by the flabby claws before anybody turned. God
rest them, if there be any rest in the universe. They were Donovan,
Guerrera and Angstrom. Parker slipped as the other three were plunging
frenziedly over endless vistas of green-crusted rock to the boat,
and Johansen swears he was swallowed up by an angle of masonry which
shouldn't have been there; an angle which was acute, but behaved as
if it were obtuse. So only Briden and Johansen reached the boat, and
pulled desperately for the _Alert_ as the mountainous monstrosity
flopped down the slimy stones and hesitated floundering at the edge of
the water.

Steam had not been suffered to go down entirely, despite the departure
of all hands for the shore; and it was the work of only a few moments
of feverish rushing up and down between wheels and engines to get
the _Alert_ under way. Slowly, amidst the distorted horrors of that
indescribable scene, she began to churn the lethal waters; whilst on
the masonry of that charnel shore that was not of earth the titan Thing
from the stars slavered and gibbered like Polypheme cursing the fleeing
ship of Odysseus. Then, bolder than the storied Cyclops, great Cthulhu
slid greasily into the water and began to pursue with vast wave-raising
strokes of cosmic potency. Briden looked back and went mad, laughing
shrilly as he kept on laughing at intervals till death found him one
night in the cabin whilst Johansen was wandering deliriously.

But Johansen had not given out yet. Knowing that the Thing could
surely overtake the _Alert_ until steam was fully up, he resolved
on a desperate chance; and, setting the engine for full speed, ran
lightning-like on deck and reversed the wheel. There was a mighty
eddying and foaming in the noisome brine, and as the steam mounted
higher and higher the brave Norwegian drove his vessel head on against
the pursuing jelly which rose above the unclean froth like the stern
of a demon galleon. The awful squid-head with writhing feelers came
nearly up to the bowsprit of the sturdy yacht, but Johansen drove on
relentlessly.

There was a bursting as of an exploding bladder, a slushy nastiness
as of a cloven sunfish, a stench as of a thousand opened graves, and
a sound that the chronicler would not put on paper. For an instant
the ship was befouled by an acrid and blinding green cloud, and then
there was only a venomous seething astern; where--God in heaven!--the
scattered plasticity of that nameless sky-spawn was nebulously
_recombining_ in its hateful original form, whilst its distance widened
every second as the _Alert_ gained impetus from its mounting steam.

       *       *       *       *       *

That was all. After that Johansen only brooded over the idol in the
cabin and attended to a few matters of food for himself and the
laughing maniac by his side. He did not try to navigate after the first
bold flight, for the reaction had taken something out of his soul. Then
came the storm of April 2nd, and a gathering of the clouds about his
consciousness. There is a sense of spectral whirling through liquid
gulfs of infinity, of dizzying rides through reeling universes on a
comet's tail, and of hysterical plunges from the pit to the moon and
from the moon back again to the pit, all livened by a cachinnating
chorus of the distorted, hilarious elder gods and the green, bat-winged
mocking imps of Tartarus.

Out of that dream came rescue--the _Vigilant_, the vice-admiralty
court, the streets of Dunedin, and the long voyage back home to the
old house by the Egeberg. He could not tell--they would think him mad.
He would write of what he knew before death came, but his wife must not
guess. Death would be a boon if only it could blot out the memories.

That was the document I read, and now I have placed it in the tin box
beside the bas-relief and the papers of Professor Angell. With it shall
go this record of mine--this test of my own sanity, wherein is pieced
together that which I hope may never be pieced together again. I have
looked upon all that the universe has to hold of horror, and even the
skies of spring and the flowers of summer must ever afterward be poison
to me. But I do not think my life will be long. As my uncle went, as
poor Johansen went, so I shall go. I know too much, and the cult still
lives.

Cthulhu still lives, too, I suppose, again in that chasm of stone
which has shielded him since the sun was young. His accursed city is
sunken once more, for the _Vigilant_ sailed over the spot after the
April storm; but his ministers on earth still bellow and prance and
slay around idol-capped monoliths in lonely places. He must have been
trapped by the sinking whilst within his black abyss, or else the world
would by now be screaming with fright and frenzy. Who knows the end?
What has risen may sink, and what has sunk may rise. Loathsomeness
waits and dreams in the deep, and decay spreads over the tottering
cities of men. A time will come--but I must not and can not think! Let
me pray that, if I do not survive this manuscript, my executors may put
caution before audacity and see that it meets no other eye.

At the MOUNTAINS of MADNESS

                          By H. P. LOVECRAFT

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
            Astounding Stories February, March, April 1936.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

I am forced into speech because men of science have refused to follow
my advice without knowing why. It is altogether against my will that
I tell my reasons for opposing this contemplated invasion of the
antarctic--with its vast fossil hunt and its wholesale boring and
melting of the ancient ice caps. And I am the more reluctant because my
warning may be in vain.

Doubt of the real facts, as I must reveal them, is inevitable; yet,
if I suppressed what will seem extravagant and incredible there would
be nothing left. The hitherto withheld photographs, both ordinary
and aërial, will count in my favor, for they are damnably vivid and
graphic. Still, they will be doubted because of the great lengths to
which clever fakery can be carried. The ink drawings, of course, will
be jeered at as obvious impostures; notwithstanding a strangeness and
technique which art experts ought to remark and puzzle over.

In the end I must rely on the judgment and standing of the few
scientific leaders who have, on the one hand, sufficient independence
of thought to weigh my data on its own hideously convincing merits or
in the light of certain primordial and highly baffling myth cycles;
and on the other hand, sufficient influence to deter the exploring
world in general from any rash and over-ambitious program in the region
of those mountains of madness.

It is an unfortunate fact that relatively obscure men like myself and
my associates, connected only with a small university, have little
chance of making an impression where matters of a wildly bizarre or
highly controversial natures are concerned.

It is further against us that we are not, in the strictest sense,
specialists in the fields which came primarily to be concerned. As a
geologist, my object in leading the Miskatonic University Expedition
was wholly that of securing deep-level specimens of rock and soil from
various parts of the antarctic continent, aided by the remarkable drill
devised by Professor Frank H. Pabodie of our engineering department.

I had no wish to be a pioneer in any other field than this, but I did
hope that the use of this new mechanical appliance at different points
along previously explored paths would bring to light materials of a
sort hitherto unreached by the ordinary methods of collection.

Pabodie's drilling apparatus, as the public already knows from our
reports, was unique and radical in its lightness, portability, and
capacity to combine the ordinary Artesian drill principle with the
principle of the small circular rock drill in such a way as to cope
quickly with strata of varying hardness.

Steel head, jointed rods, gasoline motor, collapsible wooden derrick,
dynamiting paraphernalia, cording, rubbish-removal auger, and sectional
piping for bores five inches wide and up to one thousand feet deep all
formed, with needed accessories, no greater load than three seven-dog
sledges could carry. This was made possible by the clever aluminum
alloy of which most of the metal objects were fashioned.

Four large Dornier aëroplanes, designed especially for the tremendous
altitude flying necessary on the antarctic plateau and with added
fuel-warming and quick-starting devices worked out by Pabodie, could
transport our entire expedition from a base at the edge of the great
ice barrier to various suitable inland points, and from these points a
sufficient quota of dogs would serve us.

We planned to cover as great an area as one antarctic season--or
longer, if absolutely necessary--would permit, operating mostly in the
mountain ranges and on the plateau south of Ross Sea; regions explored
in varying degree by Shackleton, Amundsen, Scott, and Byrd. With
frequent changes of camp, made by aëroplane and involving distances
great enough to be of geological significance, we expected to unearth a
quite unprecedented amount of material--especially in the pre-Cambrian
strata of which so narrow a range of antarctic specimens had previously
been secured.

We wished also to obtain as great as possible a variety of the upper
fossiliferous rocks, since the primal life history of this bleak realm
of ice and death is of the highest importance to our knowledge of the
earth's past. That the antarctic continent was once temperate and
even tropical, with a teeming vegetable and animal life of which the
lichens, marine fauna, arachnida, and penguins of the northern edge are
the only survivors, is a matter of common information; and we hoped to
expand that information in variety, accuracy, and detail. When a simple
boring revealed fossiliferous signs, we would enlarge the aperture by
blasting, in order to get specimens of suitable size and condition.

Our borings, of varying depth according to the promise held out by the
upper soil or rock, were to be confined to exposed, or nearly exposed,
land surfaces--these inevitably being slopes and ridges because of the
mile or two-mile thickness of solid ice overlying the lower levels.

We could not afford to waste drilling depth on any considerable amount
of more glaciation, though Pabodie had worked out a plan for sinking
copper electrodes in thick clusters of borings and melting off limited
areas of ice with current from a gasoline-driven dynamo.

It is this plan--which we could not put into effect except
experimentally on an expedition such as ours--that the coming
Starkweather-Moore Expedition proposes to follow, despite the warnings
I have issued since our return from the antarctic.

       *       *       *       *       *

The public knows of the Miskatonic Expedition through our frequent
wireless reports to the _Arkham Advertiser_ and Associated Press, and
through the later articles by Pabodie and myself. We consisted of four
men from the University--Pabodie, Lake of the biology department,
Atwood of the physics department--also a meteorologist--and myself,
representing geology and having nominal command, also sixteen
assistants: seven graduate students from Miskatonic and nine skilled
mechanics.

Of these sixteen, twelve were qualified aëroplane pilots, all but two
of whom were competent wireless operators. Eight of them understood
navigation with compass and sextant, as did Pabodie, Atwood and I. In
addition, of course, our two ships--wooden exwhalers, reinforced for
ice conditions and having auxiliary steam--were fully manned.

The Nathaniel Derby Pickman Foundation, aided by a few special
contributions, financed the expedition; hence our preparations were
extremely thorough, despite the absence of great publicity.

The dogs, sledges, machines, camp materials, and unassembled parts of
our five planes were delivered in Boston, and there our ships were
loaded.

We were marvelously well-equipped for our specific purposes, and in
all matters pertaining to supplies, regimen, transportation, and camp
construction we profited by the excellent example of our many recent
and exceptionally brilliant predecessors. It was the unusual number and
fame of these predecessors which made our own expedition--ample though
it was--so little noticed by the world at large.

As the newspapers told, we sailed from Boston Harbor on September 2nd,
1930, taking a leisurely course down the coast and through the Panama
Canal, and stopping at Samoa and Hobart, Tasmania, at which latter
place we took on final supplies.

None of our exploring party had ever been in the polar regions before,
hence we all relied greatly on our ship captains--J. B. Douglas,
commanding the brig _Arkham_, and serving as commander of the sea
party, and Georg Thorfinnssen, commanding the barque _Miskatonic_--both
veteran whalers in antarctic waters.

As we left the inhabited world behind the sun sank lower and lower in
the north, and stayed longer and longer above the horizon each day.
At about 62° South Latitude we sighted our first icebergs--tablelike
objects with vertical sides--and just before reaching the antarctic
circle, which we crossed on October 20th with appropriately quaint
ceremonies, we were considerably troubled with field ice.

The falling temperature bothered me considerably after our long voyage
through the tropics, but I tried to brace up for the worse rigors to
come. On many occasions the curious atmospheric effects enchanted me
vastly; these included a strikingly vivid mirage--the first I had ever
seen--in which distant bergs became the battlements of unimaginable
cosmic castles.

Pushing through the ice, which was fortunately neither extensive
nor thickly packed, we regained open water at South Latitude 67°,
East Longitude 175°. On the morning of October 26th a strong land
blink appeared on the south, and before noon we all felt a thrill of
excitement at beholding a vast, lofty, and snow-clad mountain chain
which opened out and covered the whole vista ahead. At last we had
encountered an outpost of the great unknown continent and its cryptic
world of frozen death.

These peaks were obviously the Admiralty Range discovered by Ross, and
it would now be our task to round Cape Adare and sail down the east
coast of Victoria Land to our contemplated base on the shore of McMurdo
Sound, at the foot of the volcano Erebus in South Latitude 77° 9´.

       *       *       *       *       *

The last lap of the voyage was vivid and fancy-stirring. Great barren
peaks of mystery loomed up constantly against the west as the low
northern sun of noon or the still lower horizon-grazing southern sun of
midnight poured its hazy reddish rays over the white snow, bluish ice
and water lanes, and black bits of exposed granite slope.

Through the desolate summits swept raging, intermittent gusts of
the terrible antarctic wind, whose cadences sometimes held vague
suggestions of a wild and half-sentient musical piping, with notes
extending over a wide range, and which for some subconscious mnemonic
reason seemed to me disquieting and even dimly terrible.

Something about the scene reminded me of the strange and disturbing
Asian paintings of Nicholas Roerich, and of the still stranger and more
disturbing descriptions of the evilly fabled plateau of Leng which
occur in the dreaded _Necronomicon_ of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred. I
was rather sorry, later on, that I had ever looked into that monstrous
book at the college library.

On the 7th of November, sight of the westward range having been
temporarily lost, we passed Franklin Island; and the next day descried
the cones of Mts. Erebus and Terror on Ross Island ahead, with the long
line of the Parry Mountains beyond. There now stretched off to the east
the low, white line of the great ice barrier, rising perpendicularly
to a height of two hundred feet like the rocky cliffs of Quebec, and
marking the end of southward navigation.

In the afternoon we entered McMurdo Sound and stood off the coast in
the lee of smoking Mt. Erebus. The scoriaceous peak towered up some
twelve thousand seven hundred feet against the eastern sky, like a
Japanese print of the sacred Fujiyama, while beyond it rose the white,
ghostlike height of Mt. Terror, ten thousand nine hundred feet in
altitude, and now extinct as a volcano.

Puffs of smoke from Erebus came intermittently, and one of the graduate
assistants--a brilliant young fellow named Danforth--pointed out what
looked like lava on the snowy slope, remarking that this mountain,
discovered in 1840, had undoubtedly been the source of Poe's image
when he wrote seven years later:

      "--the lavas that restlessly roll
    Their sulphurous currents down Yaanek
      In the ultimate climes of the pole--
    That groan as they roll down Mount Yaanek
      In the realms of the boreal pole."

Danforth was a great reader of bizarre material, and had talked a
good deal of Poe. I was interested myself because of the antarctic
scene of Poe's only long story--the disturbing and enigmatical _Arthur
Gordon Pym_. On the barren shore, and on the lofty ice barrier in the
background, myriad of grotesque penguins squawked and flapped their
fins, while many fat seals were visible on the water, swimming or
sprawling across large cakes of slowly drifting ice.

Using small boats, we effected a difficult landing on Ross Island
shortly after midnight, on the morning of the 9th, carrying a line of
cable from each of the ships and preparing to unload supplies by means
of a breeches-buoy arrangement.

Our sensations on first treading antarctic soil were poignant and
complex, even though at this particular point the Scott and Shackleton
expeditions had preceded us.

Our camp on the frozen shore below the volcano's slope was only a
provisional one, headquarters being kept aboard the _Arkham_. We landed
all our drilling apparatus, dogs, sledges, tents, provisions, gasoline
tanks, experimental ice-melting outfit, cameras, both ordinary and
aërial, aëroplane parts, and other accessories, including three small
portable wireless outfits--besides those in the planes--capable of
communicating with the _Arkham's_ large outfit from any part of the
antarctic continent that we would be likely to visit.

The ship's outfit, communicating with the outside world, was to convey
press reports to the _Arkham Advertiser's_ powerful wireless station
on Kingsport Head, Mass. We hoped to complete our work during a single
antarctic summer; but if this proved impossible we would winter on the
_Arkham_, sending the _Miskatonic_ north before the freezing of the ice
for another summer's supplies.

       *       *       *       *       *

I need not repeat what the newspapers have already published about our
early work: of our ascent of Mt. Erebus; our successful mineral borings
at several points on Ross Island and the singular speed with which
Pabodie's apparatus accomplished them, even through solid rock layers;
our provisional test of the small ice-melting equipment; our perilous
ascent of the great barrier with sledges and supplies; and our final
assembling of five huge aëroplanes at the camp atop the barrier.

The health of our land party--twenty men and fifty-five Alaskan sledge
dogs--was remarkable, though of course we had so far encountered no
really destructive temperatures or windstorms.

For the most part, the thermometer varied between zero and 20° or 25°
above, and our experience with New England winters had accustomed us to
rigors of this sort. The barrier camp was semipermanent, and destined
to be a storage cache for gasoline, provisions, dynamite, and other
supplies.

Only four of our planes were needed to carry the actual exploring
material, the fifth being left with a pilot and two men, from the
ships, at the storage cache to form a means of reaching us from the
_Arkham_ in case all our exploring planes were lost.

Later, when not using all the other planes for moving apparatus, we
would employ one or two in a shuttle transportation service between
this cache and another permanent base on the great plateau from six
hundred to seven hundred miles southward, beyond Beardmore Glacier.

Despite the almost unanimous accounts of appalling winds and tempests
that pour down from the plateau, we determined to dispense with
intermediate bases, taking our chances in the interest of economy and
probable efficiency.

Wireless reports have spoken of the breathtaking, four-hour, nonstop
flight of our squadron on November 21st over the lofty shelf ice, with
vast peaks rising on the west, and the unfathomed silences echoing to
the sound of our engines.

Wind troubled us only moderately, and our radio compasses helped us
through the one opaque fog we encountered. When the vast rise loomed
ahead, between Latitudes 83° and 84°, we knew we had reached Beardmore
Glacier, the largest valley glacier in the world, and that the frozen
sea was now giving place to a frowning and mountainous coast line.

At last we were truly entering the white, æon-dead world of the
ultimate south. Even as we realized it we saw the peak of Mt. Nansen
in the eastern distance, towering up to its height of almost fifteen
thousand feet.

The successful establishment of the southern base above the glacier in
Latitude 86° 7´, East Longitude 174° 23´, and the phenomenally rapid
and effective borings and blastings made at various points reached by
our sledge trips and short aëroplane flights, are matters of history;
as is the arduous and triumphant ascent of Mt. Nansen by Pabodie and
two of the graduate students--Gedney and Carroll--on December 13th to
15th.

We were some eight thousand five hundred feet above sea-level. When
experimental drillings revealed solid ground only twelve feet down
through the snow and ice at certain points, we made considerable use of
the small melting apparatus and sunk bores and performed dynamiting at
many places, where no previous explorer had ever thought of securing
mineral specimens.

The pre-Cambrian granites and beacon sandstones thus obtained confirmed
our belief that this plateau was homogeneous, with the great bulk of
the continent to the west, but somewhat different from the parts lying
eastward below South America--which we then thought to form a separate
and smaller continent divided from the larger one by a frozen junction
of Ross and Weddell Seas, though Byrd has since disproved the report.

In certain of the sandstones, dynamited and chiseled after boring
revealed their nature, we found some highly interesting fossil markings
and fragments; notably ferns, seaweeds, trilobites, crinoids, and such
mollusks as linguellæ and gastropods--all of which seemed of real
significance in connection with the region's primordial history. There
was also a queer triangular, striated marking, about a foot in greatest
diameter, which Lake pieced together from three fragments of slate
brought up from a deep-blasted aperture.

These fragments came from a point to the westward, near the Queen
Alexandra Range; and Lake, as a biologist, seemed to find their curious
marking unusually puzzling and provocative, though to my geological eye
it looked not unlike some of the ripple effects reasonably common in
the sedimentary rocks.

Since slate is no more than a metamorphic formation into which a
sedimentary stratum is pressed, and since the pressure itself produces
odd distorting effects on any markings which may exist, I saw no reason
for extreme wonder over the striated depression.

       *       *       *       *       *

On January 6, 1931, Lake, Pabodie, Daniels, all six of the students,
four mechanics, and myself flew directly over the south pole in two
of the great planes, being forced down once by a sudden high wind,
which, fortunately, did not develop into a typical storm. This was,
as the papers have stated, one of several observation flights, during
others of which we tried to discern new topographical features in areas
unreached by previous explorers.

Our early flights were disappointing in this latter respect, though
they afforded us some magnificent examples of the richly fantastic and
deceptive mirages of the polar regions, of which our sea voyage had
given us some brief foretastes.

Distant mountains floated in the sky as enchanted cities, and often the
whole white world would dissolve into a gold, silver, and scarlet land
of Dunsanian dreams and adventurous expectancy under the magic of the
low midnight sun.

On cloudy days we had considerable trouble in flying, owing to the
tendency of snowy earth and sky to merge into one mystical opalescent
void with no visible horizon to mark the junction of the two.

At length we resolved to carry out our original plan of flying five
hundred miles eastward with all four exploring planes and establishing
a fresh sub-base at a point which would probably be on the smaller
continental division, as we mistakenly conceived it. Geological
specimens obtained there would be desirable for purposes of comparison.

Our health so far had remained excellent--lime juice well offsetting
the steady diet of tinned and salted food, and temperatures generally
above zero enabling us to do without our thickest furs.

It was now midsummer, and with haste and care we might be able to
conclude work by March and avoid a tedious wintering through the long
antarctic night. Several savage windstorms had burst upon us from the
west, but we had escaped damage through the skill of Atwood in devising
rudimentary aëroplane shelters and windbreaks of heavy snow blocks, and
in reinforcing the principal camp buildings with snow. Our good luck
and efficiency had indeed been almost uncanny.

The outside world knew, of course, of our program, and was told also
of Lake's strange and dogged insistence on a westward--or rather,
northwestward--prospecting trip before our radical shift to the new
base.

It seems that he had pondered a great deal and with alarmingly radical
daring over that triangular striated marking in the slate; reading into
it certain contradictions in nature and geological period which whetted
his curiosity to the utmost, and made him avid to sink more borings
and blastings in the west-stretching formation to which the exhumed
fragments evidently belonged.

He was strangely convinced that the marking was the print of some
bulky, unknown, and radically unclassifiable organism of considerably
advanced evolution, notwithstanding that the rock which bore it was of
so vastly ancient a date--Cambrian if not actually pre-Cambrian--as to
preclude the probable existence not only of all highly evolved life,
but of any life at all above the unicellular or at most the trilobite
stage. These fragments, with their odd marking, must have been five
hundred million to a thousand million years old.

                                  II.

Popular imagination, I judge, responded actively to our wireless
bulletins of Lake's start northwestward into regions never trodden
by human foot or penetrated by human imagination, though we did not
mention his wild hopes of revolutionizing the entire sciences of
biology and geology.

His preliminary sledging and boring journey of January 11th to 18th
with Pabodie and five others--marred by the loss of two dogs in an
upset when crossing one of the great pressure ridges in the ice--had
brought up more and more of the Archæan slate; and even I was
interested by the singular profusion of evident fossil markings in that
unbelievably ancient stratum.

These markings, however, were of very primitive life forms involving
no great paradox except that any life forms should occur in rock as
definitely pre-Cambrian as this seemed to be; hence I still failed to
see the good sense of Lake's demand for an interlude in our time-saving
program--an interlude requiring the use of all four planes, many men,
and the whole of the expedition's mechanical apparatus.

I did not, in the end, veto the plan, though I decided not to accompany
the northwestward party despite Lake's plea for my geological advice.
While they were gone, I would remain at the base with Pabodie and five
men and work out final plans for the eastward shift. In preparation for
this transfer, one of the planes had begun to move up a good gasoline
supply from McMurdo Sound; but this could wait temporarily. I kept
with me one sledge and nine dogs, since it is unwise to be at any time
without possible transportation in an utterly tenantless world of
æon-long death.

Lake's subexpedition into the unknown, as every one will recall, sent
out its own reports from the short-wave transmitters on the planes;
these being simultaneously picked up by our apparatus at the southern
base and by the _Arkham_ at McMurdo Sound, whence they were relayed to
the outside world on wave lengths up to fifty meters.

The start was made January 22nd at 4 a.m.; and the first wireless
message we received came only two hours later, when Lake spoke of
descending and starting a small-scale ice-melting and bore at a point
some three hundred miles away from us. Six hours after that a second
and very excited message told of the frantic, beaverlike work whereby a
shallow shaft had been sunk and blasted, culminating in the discovery
of slate fragments with several markings approximately like the one
which had caused the original puzzlement.

Three hours later a brief bulletin announced the resumption of the
flight in the teeth of a raw and piercing gale; and when I dispatched
a message of protest against further hazards, Lake replied curtly that
his new specimens made any hazard worth taking.

I saw that his excitement had reached the point of mutiny, and that I
could do nothing to check this headlong risk of the whole expedition's
success; but it was appalling to think of his plunging deeper and
deeper into that treacherous and sinister white immensity of tempests
and unfathomed mysteries which stretched off for some fifteen hundred
miles to the half-known, half-suspected coast line of Queen Mary and
Knox Lands.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then, in about an hour and a half more, came that doubly excited
message from Lake's moving plane, which almost reversed my sentiments
and made me wish I had accompanied the party:

    "10:05 p.m. On the wing. After snowstorm, have spied mountain range
    ahead higher than any hitherto seen. May equal Himalayas, allowing
    for height of plateau. Probable Latitude 76° 15´, Longitude 113° 10´
    E. Reaches far as can see to right and left. Suspicion of two
    smoking cones. All peaks black and bare of snow. Gale blowing off
    them impedes navigation."

After that Pabodie, the men, and I hung breathlessly over the receiver.
Thought of this titanic mountain rampart seven hundred miles away
inflamed our deepest sense of adventure; and we rejoiced that our
expedition, if not ourselves personally, had been its discoverers. In
half an hour Lake called us again:

    "Moulton's plane forced down on plateau in foothills, but nobody
    hurt and perhaps can repair. Shall transfer essentials to other
    three for return or further moves if necessary, but no more heavy
    plane travel needed just now. Mountains surpass anything in
    imagination. Am going up scouting in Carroll's plane, with all
    weight out.

    "You can't imagine anything like this. Highest peaks must go over
    thirty-five thousand feet. Everest out of the running, Atwood to
    work out height with theodolite while Carroll and I go up. Probably
    wrong about cones, for formations look stratified. Possibly
    pre-Cambrian slate with other strata mixed in. Queer sky line
    effects--regular sections of cubes clinging to highest peaks. Whole
    thing marvelous in red-gold light of low sun. Like land of mystery
    in a dream or gateway to forbidden world of untrodden wonder. Wish
    you were here to study."

Though it was technically sleeping time, not one of us listeners
thought for a moment of retiring. It must have been a good deal
the same at McMurdo Sound, where the supply cache and the _Arkham_
were also getting the messages; for Captain Douglas gave out a call
congratulating everybody on the important find, and Sherman, the cache
operator, seconded his sentiments. We were sorry, of course, about the
damaged aëroplane, but hoped it could be easily mended. Then, at eleven
p.m., came another call from Lake:

    "Up with Carroll over highest foothills. Don't dare try really tall
    peaks in present weather, but shall later. Frightful work climbing,
    and hard going at this altitude, but worth it. Great range fairly
    solid, hence can't get any glimpses beyond. Main summits exceed
    Himalayas, and very queer. Range looks like pre-Cambrian slate,
    with plain signs of many other upheaved strata. Was wrong about
    volcanism. Goes farther in either direction than we can see. Swept
    clear of snow above about twenty-one thousand feet.

    "Odd formations on slopes of highest mountains. Great low square
    blocks with exactly vertical sides, and rectangular lines of low,
    vertical ramparts, like the old Asian castles clinging to steep
    mountains in Roerich's paintings. Impressive from distance. Flew
    close to some, and Carroll thought they were formed of smaller
    separate pieces, but that is probably weathering. Most edges
    crumbled and rounded off as if exposed to storms and climate
    changes for millions of years.

    "Parts, especially upper parts, seem to be of lighter-colored
    rock than any visible strata on slopes proper, hence an evidently
    crystalline origin. Close flying shows many cave mouths, some
    unusually regular in outline, square or semicircular. You must come
    and investigate. Think I saw rampart squarely on top of one peak.
    Height seems about thirty thousand to thirty-five thousand feet. Am
    up twenty-one thousand five hundred myself, in devilish, gnawing
    cold. Wind whistles and pipes through passes and in and out of
    caves, but no flying danger so far."

From then on for another half hour Lake kept up a running fire of
comment, and expressed his intention of climbing some of the peaks on
foot. I replied that I would join him as soon as he could send a plane,
and that Pabodie and I would work out the best gasoline plan--just
where and how to concentrate our supply in view of the expedition's
altered character.

Obviously, Lake's boring operations, as well as his aëroplane
activities, would need a great deal delivered at the new base which
he was to establish at the foot of the mountains; and it was possible
that the eastward flight might not be made, after all, this season. In
connection with this business I called Captain Douglas and asked him to
get as much as possible out of the ships and up the barrier with the
single dog team we had left there. A direct route across the unknown
region between Lake and McMurdo Sound was what we really ought to
establish.

Lake called me later to say that he had decided to let the camp stay
where Moulton's plane had been forced down, and where repairs had
already progressed somewhat. The ice sheet was very thin, with dark
ground here and there visible, and he would sink some borings and
blasts at that very point before making any sledge trips or climbing
expeditions.

He spoke of the ineffable majesty of the whole scene, and the queer
state of his sensations at being in the lee of vast, silent pinnacles,
whose ranks shot up like a wall reaching the sky at the world's rim.

[Illustration: _It was a queer state of sensations--being in the lee of
vast, silent pinnacles, where ranks shot up like a wall reaching the
sky at the world's rim._]

Atwood's theodolite observations had placed the height of the five
tallest peaks at from thirty thousand to thirty-four thousand feet.

The windswept nature of the terrain clearly disturbed Lake, for it
argued the occasional existence of prodigious gales, violent beyond
anything we had so far encountered. His camp lay a little more than
five miles from where the higher foothills rose abruptly.

I could almost trace a note of subconscious alarm in his words--flashed
across a glacial void of seven hundred miles--as he urged that we all
hasten with the matter and get the strange, new region disposed of as
soon as possible. He was about to rest now, after a continuous day's
work of almost unparalleled speed, strenuousness, and results.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the morning I had a three-cornered wireless talk with Lake and
Captain Douglas at their widely separated bases. It was agreed that one
of Lake's planes would come to my base for Pabodie, the five men, and
myself, as well as for all the fuel it could carry. The rest of the
fuel question, depending on our decision about an easterly trip, could
wait for a few days, since Lake had enough for immediate camp heat and
borings.

Eventually the old southern base ought to be restocked, but if we
postponed the easterly trip we would not use it till the next summer,
and, meanwhile, Lake must send a plane to explore a direct route
between his new mountains and McMurdo Sound.

Pabodie and I prepared to close our base for a short or long period, as
the case might be. If we wintered in the antarctic we would probably
fly straight from Lake's base to the _Arkham_ without returning to
this spot. Some of our conical tents had already been reinforced by
blocks of hard snow, and now we decided to complete the job of making a
permanent village. Owing to a very liberal tent supply, Lake had with
him all that his base would need, even after our arrival. I wirelessed
that Pabodie and I would be ready for the northwestward move after one
day's work and one night's rest.

Our labors, however, were not very steady after four p.m., for about
that time Lake began sending in the most extraordinary and excited
messages. His working day had started unpropitiously, since an
aëroplane survey of the nearly exposed rock surfaces showed an entire
absence of those Archæan and primordial strata for which he was
looking, and which formed so great a part of the colossal peaks that
loomed up at a tantalizing distance from the camp.

Most of the rocks glimpsed were apparently Jurassic and Comanchean
sandstones and Permian and Triassic schists, with now and then a glossy
black outcropping suggesting a hard and slaty coal.

This rather discouraged Lake, whose plans all hinged on unearthing
specimens more than five hundred million years older. It was clear
to him that in order to recover the Archæan slate vein in which he
had found the odd markings, he would have to make a long sledge trip
from these foothills to the steep slopes of the gigantic mountains
themselves.

He had resolved, nevertheless, to do some local boring as part of the
expedition's general program; hence, he set up the drill and put five
men to work with it while the rest finished settling the camp and
repairing the damaged aëroplane. The softest visible rock--a sandstone
about a quarter of a mile from the camp--had been chosen for the
first sampling; and the drill made excellent progress without much
supplementary blasting.

It was about three hours afterward, following the first really heavy
blast of the operation, that the shouting of the drill crew was heard;
and that young Gedney--the acting foreman--rushed into the camp with
the startling news.

       *       *       *       *       *

They had struck a cave. Early in the boring the sandstone had given
place to a vein of Comanchean limestone, full of minute fossil
cephalopods, corals, echini, and spirifera, and with occasional
suggestions of siliceous sponges and marine vertebrate bones--the
latter probably of teliosts, sharks, and ganoids.

This, in itself, was important enough, as affording the first
vertebrate fossils the expedition had yet secured; but when shortly
afterward the drill head dropped through the stratum into apparent
vacancy, a wholly new and doubly intense wave of excitement spread
among the excavators.

A good-sized blast had laid open the subterrane secret; and now,
through a jagged aperture perhaps five feet across and three feet
thick, there yawned before the avid searchers a section of shallow
limestone hollowing worn more than fifty million years ago by the
trickling ground waters of a bygone tropic world.

The hollowed layer was not more than seven or eight feet deep, but
extended off indefinitely in all directions and had a fresh, slightly
moving air which suggested its membership in an extensive subterranean
system. Its roof and floor were abundantly equipped with large
stalactites and stalagmites, some of which met in columnar form.

But important above all else was the vast deposit of shells and bones,
which in places nearly choked the passage. Washed down from unknown
jungles of Mesozoic tree ferns and fungi, and forests of Tertiary
cycads, fan palms, and primitive angiosperms, this osseous medley
contained representatives of more Cretaceous, Eocene, and other
animal species than the greatest palæontologist could have counted or
classified in a year. Mollusks, crustacean armor, fishes, amphibians,
reptiles, birds, and early mammals--great and small, known and unknown.

No wonder Gedney ran back to the camp shouting, and no wonder every one
else dropped work and rushed headlong through the biting cold to where
the tall derrick marked a new-found gateway to secrets of inner earth
and vanished æons.

When Lake had satisfied the first keen edge of his curiosity he
scribbled a message in his notebook and had young Moulton run back to
the camp to dispatch it by wireless.

This was my first word of the discovery, and it told of the
identification of early shells, bones of ganoids and placoderms,
remnants of labyrinthodonta and thecoiidea, great mosasaur skull
fragments, dinosaur vertebræ and armor plates, pterodactyl teeth and
wing bones, Archaeopteryx débris, Miocene sharks' teeth, primitive
bird skulls, and other bones of archaic mammals such as Palæotheres,
Xiphodons, Eohippi, Oreodons, and Titanotheriidæ.

There was nothing as recent as a mastodon, elephant, true camel, deer,
or bovine animal; hence Lake concluded that the last deposits had
occurred during the Oligocene Age, and that the hollowed stratum had
lain in its present dried, dead, and inaccessible state for at least
thirty million years.

On the other hand, the prevalence of very early life forms was singular
in the highest degree. Though the limestone formation was, on the
evidence of such typical imbedded fossils as ventriculites, positively
and unmistakably Comanchean and not a particle earlier; the free
fragments in the hollow space included a surprising proportion from
organisms hitherto considered as peculiar to far older periods--even
rudimentary fishes, mollusks, and corals as remote as the Silurian or
Ordovician.

The inevitable inference was that in this part of the world there had
been a remarkable and unique degree of continuity between the life of
over three hundred million years ago and that of only thirty million
years ago. How far this continuity had extended beyond the Oligocene
Age when the cavern was closed was of course past all speculation.

In any event, the coming of the frightful ice in the Pleistocene some
five hundred thousand years ago--a mere yesterday as compared with the
age of this cavity--must have put an end to any of the primal forms
which had locally managed to outlive their common terms.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lake was not content to let his first message stand, but had another
bulletin written and dispatched across the snow to the camp before
Moulton could get back. After that Moulton stayed at the wireless in
one of the planes, transmitting to me--and to the _Arkham_ for relaying
to the outside world--the frequent postscripts which Lake sent him by a
succession of messengers.

Those who followed the newspapers will remember the excitement created
among men of science by that afternoon's reports--reports which have
finally led, after all these years, to the organization of that very
Starkweather-Moore Expedition which I am so anxious to dissuade from
its purposes. I had better give the messages literally as Lake sent
them, and as our base operator McTighe translated them from his pencil
shorthand:

    Fowler makes discovery of highest importance in sandstone and
    limestone fragments from blasts. Several distinct triangular
    striated prints like those in archæan slate, proving that source
    survived from over six hundred million years ago to Comanchean
    times without more than moderate morphological changes and decrease
    in average size. Comanchean prints apparently more primitive or
    decadent, if anything, than older ones. Emphasize importance of
    discovery in press. Will mean to biology what Einstein has meant
    to mathematics and physics. Joins up with my previous work and
    amplifies conclusions.

    Appears to indicate, as I suspected, that earth has seen whole cycle
    or cycles of organic life before known one that begins with
    Archæozoic cells. Was evolved and specialized not later than a
    thousand million years ago, when planet was young and recently
    uninhabitable for any life forms of normal protoplasmic structure.
    Question arises when, where, and how development took place.

        *       *       *       *       *

    Later. Examining certain skeletal fragments of large land and marine
    saurians and primitive mammals, find singular local wounds or
    injuries to bony structure not attributable to any known predatory
    or carnivorous animal of any period. Of two sorts--straight,
    penetrant bores, and apparently hacking incisions. One or two
    cases of cleanly severed bones. Not many specimens affected. Am
    sending to camp for electric torches. Will extend search area
    underground by hacking away stalactites.

        *       *       *       *       *

    Still later. Have found peculiar soapstone fragment about six inches
    across and an inch and a half thick, wholly unlike any visible local
    formation--greenish, but no evidences to place its period. Has
    curious smoothness and regularity. Shaped like five-pointed star
    with tips broken off, and signs of other cleavage at inward angles
    and in center of surface. Small, smooth depression in center of
    unbroken surface. Arouses much curiosity as to source and
    weathering. Probably some freak of water action. Carroll, with
    magnifier, thinks he can make out additional markings of geologic
    significance. Groups of tiny dots in regular patterns. Dogs growing
    uneasy as we work, and seem to hate this soapstone. Must see if it
    has any peculiar odor. Will report again when Mills gets back with
    light and we start on underground area.

        *       *       *       *       *

    10:15 p.m. Important discovery. Orrendorf and Watkins, working
    underground at 9:45 with light, found monstrous barrel-shaped fossil
    of wholly unknown nature; probably vegetable unless overgrown
    specimen of unknown marine radiata. Tissue evidently preserved by
    mineral salts. Tough as leather, but astonishing flexibility
    retained in places. Marks of broken-off parts at ends and around
    sides. Six feet end to end, three and five tenths feet central
    diameter, tapering to one foot at each end. Like a barrel with five
    bulging ridges in place of staves. Lateral breakages, as of
    thinnish stalks, are at equator in middle of these ridges. In
    furrows between ridges are curious growths--combs or wings that
    fold up and spread out like fans. All greatly damaged but one,
    which gives almost seven-foot wing spread. Arrangement reminds one
    of certain monsters of primal myth, especially fabled Elder Things
    in _Necronomicon_.

    These wings seem to be membranous, stretched on framework of
    glandular tubing. Apparent minute orifices in frame tubing at wing
    tips. Ends of body shriveled, giving no clue to interior or to what
    has been broken off there. Must dissect when we get back to camp.
    Can't decide whether vegetable or animal. Many features obviously
    of almost incredible primitiveness. Have set all hands cutting
    stalactites and looking for further specimens. Additional scarred
    bones found, but these must wait. Having trouble with dogs. They
    can't endure the new specimen, and would probably tear it to pieces
    if we didn't keep it at a distance from them.

        *       *       *       *       *

    11:30 p.m. Attention, Dyer, Pabodie, Douglas. Matter of highest--I
    might say transcendent--importance. _Arkham_ must relay to Kingsport
    Head Station at once. Strange barrel growth is the archæan thing
    that left prints in rocks. Mills, Boudreau, and Fowler discover
    cluster of thirteen more at underground point forty feet from
    aperture. Mixed with curiously rounded and configured soapstone
    fragments smaller than one previously found--star-shaped, but no
    marks of breakage except at some of the points.

    Of organic specimens, eight apparently perfect, with all appendages.
    Have brought all to surface, leading off dogs to distance. They
    cannot stand the things. Give close attention to description and
    repeat back for accuracy. Papers must get this right.

    Objects are eight feet long all over. Six-foot, five-ridged barrel
    torso three and five tenths feet central diameter, one foot end
    diameters. Dark gray, flexible, and infinitely tough. Seven-foot
    membranous wings of same color, found folded, spread out of furrows
    between ridges. Wing framework tubular or glandular, or lighter
    gray, with orifices at wing tips. Spread wings have serrated edge.
    Around equator, one at central apex of each of the five vertical,
    stavelike ridges, are five systems of light-gray flexible arms or
    tentacles found tightly folded to torso but expansible to maximum
    length of over three feet. Like arms of primitive crinoid. Single
    stalks three inches diameter branch after six inches into five
    substalks, each of which branches after eight inches into five
    small, tapering tentacles or tendrils, giving each stalk a total
    of twenty-five tentacles.

    At top of torso blunt, bulbous neck of lighter gray, with gill-like
    suggestions, holds yellowish five-pointed starfish-shaped apparent
    head covered with three-inch wiry cilia of various prismatic colors.

    Head thick and puffy, about two feet point to point, with three-inch
    flexible yellowish tubes projecting from each point. Slit in exact
    center of top probably breathing aperture. At end of each tube is
    spherical expansion where yellowish membrane rolls back on handling
    to reveal glassy, red-irised globe, evidently an eye.

    Five slightly longer reddish tubes start from inner angles of
    starfish-shaped head and end in saclike swellings of same color
    which, upon pressure, open to bell-shaped orifices two inches
    maximum  diameter and lined with sharp, white tooth-like
    projections--probable mouths. All these tubes, cilia, and points
    of starfish head, found folded tightly down; tubes and points
    clinging to bulbous neck and  torso. Flexibility surprising despite
    vast toughness.

    At bottom of torso, rough but dissimilarly functioning counterparts
    of head arrangements exist. Bulbous light-gray pseudoneck, without
    gill suggestions, holds greenish five-pointed starfish arrangement.

    Tough, muscular arms four feet long and tapering from seven inches
    diameter at base to about two and five tenths at point. To each
    point is attached small end of a greenish five-veined membranous
    triangle eight inches long and six wide at farther end. This is the
    paddle, fin, or pseudofoot which had made prints in rocks from a
    thousand million to fifty or sixty million years old.

    From inner angles of starfish arrangement project two-foot reddish
    tubes tapering from three inches diameter at base to one at tip.
    Orifices at tips. All these parts infinitely tough and leathery,
    but extremely flexible. Four-foot arms with paddles undoubtedly
    used for locomotion of some sort, marine or otherwise. When moved,
    display suggestions of exaggerated muscularity. As found, all
    these projections tightly folded over pseudoneck and end of torso,
    corresponding to projections at other end.

    Cannot yet assign positively to animal or vegetable kingdom, but
    odds now favor animal. Probably represents incredibly advanced
    evolution of radiata without loss of certain primitive features.
    Echinoderm resemblances unmistakable despite local contradictory
    evidences.

    Wing structure puzzles in view of probable marine habitat, but may
    have use in water navigation. Symmetry is curiously vegetablelike,
    suggesting vegetable's essential up-and-down structure rather than
    animal's fore-and-aft structure. Fabulously early date of evolution,
    preceding even simplest archæan Protozoa hitherto known, baffles all
    conjecture as to origin.

    Complete specimens have such uncanny resemblance to certain
    creatures of primal myth that suggestion of ancient existence
    outside antarctic becomes inevitable. Dyer and Pabodie have read
    _Necronomicon_ and seen Clark Ashton Smith's nightmare paintings
    based on text, and will understand when I speak of Elder Things
    supposed to have created all earth life as jest or mistake. Students
    have always thought conception formed from morbid imaginative
    treatment of very ancient tropical radiata. Also like prehistoric
    folklore things Wilmarth has spoken of--Cthulhu cult appendages,
    etc.

    Vast field of study opened. Deposits probably of late Cretaceous
    or early Eocene period, judging from associated specimens. Massive
    stalagmites deposited above them. Hard work hewing out, but
    toughness prevented damage. State of preservation miraculous,
    evidently owing to limestone action. No more found so far, but
    will resume search later. Job now to get fourteen huge specimens
    to camp without dogs, which bark furiously and can't be trusted
    near them.

    With nine men--three left to guard the dogs--we ought to manage the
    three sledges fairly well, though wind is bad. Must establish plane
    communication with McMurdo Sound and begin shipping material. But
    I've got to dissect one of these things before we take any rest.
    Wish I had a real laboratory here. Dyer better kick himself for
    having tried to stop my westward trip. First the world's greatest
    mountains, and then this. If this last isn't the high spot of the
    expedition, I don't know what is. We're made scientifically.
    Congrats, Pabodie, on the drill that opened up the cave. Now will
    _Arkham_ please repeat description?

[Illustration: "_I've got to dissect one of these things before_----"

"_First the world's greatest mountains--then this!_"]

The sensations of Pabodie and myself at receipt of this report were
almost beyond description, nor were our companions much behind us in
enthusiasm. McTighe, who had hastily translated a few high spots as
they came from the droning receiving set, wrote out the entire message
from his shorthand version, as soon as Lake's operator signed off.

All appreciated the epoch-making significance of the discovery, and
I sent Lake congratulations as soon as the _Arkham's_ operator had
repeated back the descriptive parts as requested; and my example was
followed by Sherman from his station at the McMurdo Sound supply cache,
as well as by Captain Douglas of the _Arkham_.

Later, as head of the expedition, I added some remarks to be relayed
through the _Arkham_ to the outside world. Of course, rest was an
absurd thought amidst this excitement; and my only wish was to get to
Lake's camp as quickly as I could. It disappointed me when he sent word
that a rising mountain gale made early aërial travel impossible.

But within an hour and a half interest again rose to banish
disappointment. Lake, sending more messages, told of the completely
successful transportation of the fourteen great specimens to the camp.
It had been a hard pull, for the things were surprisingly heavy; but
nine men had accomplished it very neatly. Now some of the party were
hurriedly building a snow corral at a safe distance from the camp, to
which the dogs could be brought for greater convenience in feeding. The
specimens were laid out on the hard snow near the camp, save for one on
which Lake was making crude attempts at dissection.

This dissection seemed to be a greater task than had been expected,
for, despite the heat of a gasoline stove in the newly raised
laboratory tent, the deceptively flexible tissues of the chosen
specimen--a powerful and intact one--lost nothing of their more than
leathery toughness. Lake was puzzled as to how he might make the
requisite incisions without violence destructive enough to upset all
the structural niceties he was looking for.

He had, it is true, seven more perfect specimens; but these were too
few to use up recklessly unless the cave might later yield an unlimited
supply. Accordingly, he removed the specimen and dragged in one which,
though having remnants of the starfish arrangements at both ends, was
badly crushed and partly disrupted along one of the great torso furrows.

Results, quickly reported over the wireless, were baffling and
provocative indeed. Nothing like delicacy or accuracy was possible with
instruments hardly able to cut the anomalous tissue, but the little
that was achieved left us all awed and bewildered.

Existing biology would have to be wholly revised, for this thing was no
product of any cell growth science knows about. There had been scarcely
any mineral replacement, and despite an age of perhaps forty million
years the internal organs were wholly intact.

The leathery, undeteriorative, and almost indestructible quality was an
inherent attribute of the thing's form of organization, and pertained
to some paleocene cycle of invertebrate evolution utterly beyond our
powers of speculation.

At first all that Lake found was dry, but as the heated tent produced
its thawing effect, organic moisture of pungent and offensive odor
was encountered toward the thing's uninjured side. It was not blood,
but a thick, dark-green fluid apparently answering the same purpose.
By the time Lake reached this stage all thirty-seven dogs had been
brought to the still uncompleted corral near the camp, and even at that
distance set up a savage barking and show of restlessness at the acrid,
diffusive smell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Far from helping to place the strange entity, this provisional
dissection merely deepened its mystery. All guesses about its external
members had been correct, and on the evidence of these one could hardly
hesitate to call the thing animal, but internal inspection brought up
so many vegetable evidences that Lake was left hopelessly at sea. It
had digestion and circulation, and eliminated waste matter through the
reddish tubes of its starfish-shaped base.

Cursorily, one would say that its respiratory apparatus handled oxygen
rather than carbon dioxide; and there were odd evidences of air-storage
chambers and methods of shifting respiration from the external orifice
to at least two other fully developed breathing systems--gills and
pores.

Clearly, it was amphibian and probably adapted to long airless
hibernation periods as well. Vocal organs seemed present in connection
with the main respiratory system, but they presented anomalies beyond
immediate solution. Articulate speech, in the sense of syllable
utterance, seemed barely conceivable, but musical piping notes covering
a wide range were highly probable. The muscular system was almost
pre-naturally developed.

The nervous system was so complex and highly developed as to leave Lake
aghast. Though excessively primitive and archaic in some respects, the
thing had a set of gangliar centers and connectives arguing the very
extremes of specialized development.

Its five-lobed brain was surprisingly advanced, and there were signs of
a sensory equipment, served in part through the wiry cilia of the head,
involving factors alien to any other terrestrial organism. Probably it
had more than five senses, so that its habits could not be predicted
from any existing analogy.

It must, Lake thought, have been a creature of keen sensitiveness and
delicately differentiated functions in its primal world--much like the
ants and bees of to-day. It reproduced like the vegetable cryptogams,
especially the pteridophyta; having spore cases at the tips of the
wings and evidently developing from a thallus or prothallus.

But to give it a name at this stage was mere folly. It looked like a
radiate, but was clearly something more. It was partly vegetable, but
had three fourths of the essentials of animal structure. That it was
marine in origin, its symmetrical contour and certain other attributes
clearly indicated; yet one could not be exact as to the limit of its
later adaptations.

The wings, after all, held a persistent suggestion of the aërial.
How it could have undergone its tremendously complex evolution on a
new-born earth in time to leave prints in archæan rocks was so far
beyond conception as to make Lake whimsically recall the primal myths
about Great Old Ones who filtered down from the stars and concocted
earth life as a joke or mistake; and the wild tales of cosmic hill
things from outside told by a folklorist colleague in Miskatonic's
English department.

       *       *       *       *       *

Naturally, he considered the possibility of the pre-Cambrian prints
having been made by a less evolved ancestor of the present specimens,
but quickly rejected this too-facile theory upon considering the
advanced structural qualities of the older fossils. If anything, the
later contours showed decadence rather than higher evolution.

The size of the pseudofeet had decreased, and the whole morphology
seemed coarsened and simplified. Moreover, the nerves and organs,
just examined, held singular suggestions of retrogression from forms
still more complex. Atrophied and vestigial parts were surprisingly
prevalent. Altogether, little could be said to have been solved; and
Lake fell back on mythology for a provisional name--jocosely dubbing
his finds "The Elder Ones."

At about two-thirty a.m., having decided to postpone further work and
get a little rest, he covered the dissected organism with a tarpaulin,
emerged from the laboratory tent, and studied the intact specimens with
renewed interest.

The ceaseless antarctic sun had begun to limber up their tissues a
trifle, so that the head points and tubes of two or three showed
signs of unfolding; but Lake did not believe there was any danger of
immediate decomposition in the almost subzero air. He did, however,
move all the undissected specimens closer together and throw a spare
tent over them in order to keep off the direct solar rays. That
would also help to keep their possible scent away from the dogs,
whose hostile unrest was really becoming a problem, even at their
substantial distance and behind the higher and higher snow walls, which
an increased quota of the men were hastening to raise around their
quarters.

He had to weight down the corners of the tent cloth with heavy blocks
of snow to hold it in place amidst the rising gale, for the titan
mountains seemed about to deliver some gravely severe blasts. Early
apprehensions about sudden antarctic winds were revived, and under
Atwood's supervision precautions were taken to bank the tents, new dog
corral, and crude aëroplane shelters with snow, on the mountainward
side. These latter shelters, begun with hard snow blocks during odd
moments, were by no means as high as they should have been; and Lake
finally detached all hands from other tasks to work on them.

It was after four when Lake at last prepared to sign off and advised
us all to share the rest period his outfit would take when the shelter
walls were a little higher. He held some friendly chat with Pabodie
over the ether, and repeated his praise of the really marvelous drills
that had helped him make his discovery. Atwood also sent greetings and
praises.

I gave Lake a warm word of congratulation, owning up that he was right
about the western trip, and we all agreed to get in touch by wireless
at ten in the morning. If the gale was then over, Lake would send a
plane for the party at my base. Just before retiring I dispatched a
final message to the _Arkham_, with instructions about toning down the
day's news for the outside world, since the full details seemed radical
enough to rouse a wave of incredulity until further substantiated.

                                 III.

None of us, I imagine, slept very heavily or continuously that morning.
Both the excitement of Lake's discovery and the mounting fury of the
wind were against such a thing. So savage was the blast even where we
were, that we could not help wondering how much worse it was at Lake's
camp, directly under the vast unknown peaks that bred and delivered it.

McTighe was awake at ten o'clock and tried to get Lake on the wireless,
as agreed, but some electrical condition in the disturbed air to the
westward seemed to prevent communication. We did, however, get the
_Arkham_, and Douglas told me that he had likewise been vainly trying
to reach Lake. He had not known about the wind, for very little was
blowing at McMurdo Sound, despite its persistent rage where we were.

Throughout the day we all listened anxiously and tried to get Lake at
intervals, but invariably without results. About noon a positive frenzy
of wind stampeded out of the west, causing us to fear for the safety of
our camp; but it eventually died down, with only a moderate relapse at
two p.m.

After three o'clock it was very quiet, and we redoubled our efforts to
get Lake. Reflecting that he had four planes, each provided with an
excellent short-wave outfit, we could not imagine any ordinary accident
capable of crippling all his wireless equipment at once. Nevertheless,
the stony silence continued, and when we thought of the delirious force
the wind must have had in his locality we could not help making the
most direful conjectures.

By six o'clock our fears had become intense and definite, and after a
wireless consultation with Douglas and Thorfinnssen I resolved to take
steps toward investigation. The fifth aëroplane, which we had left
at the McMurdo Sound supply cache with Sherman and two sailors, was
in good shape and ready for instant use, and it seemed that the very
emergency for which it had been saved was now upon us.

I got Sherman by wireless and ordered him to join me with the plane
and the two sailors at the southern base as quickly as possible, the
air conditions being apparently highly favorable. We then talked over
the personnel of the coming investigation party, and decided that we
would include all hands, together with the sledge and dogs which I
had kept with me. Even so great a load would not be too much for one
of the huge planes built to our special orders for heavy machinery
transportation. At intervals I still tried to reach Lake with the
wireless, but all to no purpose.

Sherman, with the sailors Gunnarsson and Larsen, took off at seven
thirty; and reported a quiet flight from several points on the wing.
They arrived at our base at midnight, and all hands at once discussed
the next move. It was risky business sailing over the antarctic in a
single aëroplane without any line of bases, but no one drew back from
what seemed like the plainest necessity. We turned in at two o'clock
for a brief rest after some preliminary loading of the plane, but were
up again in four hours to finish the loading and packing.

At seven fifteen a.m., January 25th, we started northwestward under
McTighe's pilotage with ten men, seven dogs, a sledge, a fuel and food
supply, and other items including the plane's wireless outfit. The
atmosphere was clear, fairly quiet, and relatively mild in temperature,
and we anticipated very little trouble in reaching the latitude and
longitude designated by Lake as the site of his camp. Our apprehensions
were over what we might find, or fail to find, at the end of our
journey, for silence continued to answer all calls dispatched to the
camp.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every incident of that four-and-a-half-hour flight is burned into my
recollection because of its crucial position in my life. It marked my
loss, at the age of fifty-four, of all that peace and balance which the
normal mind possesses through its accustomed conception of external
nature and nature's laws.

Thenceforward the ten of us--but the student Danforth and myself
above all others--were to face a hideously amplified world of lurking
horrors which nothing can erase from our emotions, and which we
would refrain from sharing with mankind in general if we could. The
newspapers have printed the bulletins we sent from the moving plane,
telling of our nonstop course, our two battles with treacherous
upper-air gales, our glimpse of the broken surface where Lake had sunk
his mid-journey shaft three days before, and our sight of a group of
those strange fluffy snow cylinders noted by Amundsen and Byrd as
rolling in the wind across the endless leagues of frozen plateau.

There came a point, though, when our sensations could not be conveyed
in any words the press would understand, and a later point when we had
to adopt an actual rule of strict censorship.

The sailor Larsen was first to spy the jagged line of witchlike cones
and pinnacles ahead, and his shouts sent every one to the windows of
the great cabined plane. Despite our speed, they were very slow in
gaining prominence; hence we knew that they must be infinitely far off,
and visible only because of their abnormal height.

Little by little, however, they rose grimly into the western sky,
allowing us to distinguish various bare, bleak, blackish summits, and
to catch the curious sense of phantasy which they inspired as seen
in the reddish antarctic light against the provocative background of
iridescent ice-dust clouds.

In the whole spectacle there was a persistent, pervasive hint of
stupendous secrecy and potential revelation. It was as if these
stark, nightmare spires marked the pylons of a frightful gateway into
forbidden spheres of dream, and complex gulfs of remote time, space,
and ultradimensionality. I could not help feeling that they were evil
things--mountains of madness whose farther slopes looked out over some
accursed ultimate abyss.

That seething, half-luminous cloud background held ineffable
suggestions of a vague, ethereal beyondness far more than terrestrially
spatial, and gave appalling reminders of the utter remoteness,
separateness, desolation, and æon-long death of this untrodden and
unfathomed austral world.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was young Danforth who drew our notice to the curious regularities
of the higher mountain sky line--regularities like clinging fragments
of perfect cubes, which Lake had mentioned in his messages, and which
indeed justified his comparison with the dreamlike suggestions of
primordial temple ruins, on cloudy Asian mountaintops so subtly and
strangely painted by Roerich.

There was indeed something hauntingly Roerichlike about this whole
unearthly continent of mountainous mystery. I had felt it in October
when we first caught sight of Victoria Land, and I felt it afresh now.
I felt, too, another wave of uneasy consciousness of archæan mythical
resemblances, of how disturbingly this lethal realm corresponded to the
evilly famed plateau of Leng in the primal writings.

Mythologists have placed Leng in Central Asia, but the racial memory of
man--or of his predecessors--is long, and it may well be that certain
tales have come down from lands and mountains and temples of horror
earlier than Asia and earlier than any human world we know.

A few daring mystics have hinted at a pre-Pleistocene origin for the
fragmentary Pnakotic Manuscripts, and have suggested that the devotees
of Tsathoggua were as alien to mankind as Tsathoggua itself.

Leng, wherever in space or time it might brood, was not a region I
would care to be in or near, nor did I relish the proximity of a
world that had ever bred such ambiguous and archæan monstrosities as
those Lake had just mentioned. At the moment I felt sorry that I had
ever read the abhorred _Necronomicon_, or talked so much with that
unpleasantly erudite folklorist Wilmarth at the university.

       *       *       *       *       *

This mood undoubtedly served to aggravate my reaction to the bizarre
mirage which burst upon us from the increasingly opalescent zenith
as we drew near the mountains and began to make out the cumulative
undulations of the foothills. I had seen dozens of polar mirages during
the preceding weeks, some of them quite as uncanny and fantastically
vivid as the present sample, but this one had a wholly novel and
obscure quality of menacing symbolism, and I shuddered as the seething
labyrinth of fabulous walls and towers and minarets loomed out of the
troubled ice vapors above our heads.

The effect was that of a Cyclopean city of no architecture known to
man or to human imagination, with vast aggregations of night-black
masonry embodying monstrous perversions of geometrical laws. There
were truncated cones, sometimes terraced or fluted, surmounted by
tall cylindrical shafts here and there bulbously enlarged and often
capped with tiers of thinnish scalloped disks, and strange, beetling,
tablelike constructions suggesting piles of multitudinous rectangular
slabs or circular plates or five-pointed stars with each one
overlapping the one beneath.

There were composite cones and pyramids either alone or surmounting
cylinders or cubes or flatter truncated cones and pyramids, and
occasional needlelike spires in curious clusters of five.

All of these febrile structures seemed knit together by tubular bridges
crossing from one to the other at various dizzy heights, and the
implied scale of the whole was terrifying and oppressive in its sheer
giganticism.

The general type of mirage was not unlike some of the wilder forms
observed and drawn by the arctic whaler Scoresby in 1820, but at
this time and place, with those dark, unknown mountain peaks soaring
stupendously ahead, that anomalous elder-world discovery in our minds,
and the pall of probable disaster enveloping the greater part of our
expedition, we all seemed to find in it a taint of latent malignity and
infinitely evil portent.

I was glad when the mirage began to break up, though in the process
the various nightmare turrets and cones assumed distorted, temporary
forms of even vaster hideousness. As the whole illusion dissolved to
churning opalescence, we began to look earthward again, and saw that
our journey's end was not far off.

The unknown mountains ahead rose dizzily up like a fearsome rampart of
giants, their curious regularities showing with startling clearness
even without a field glass. We were over the lowest foothills now, and
could see amidst the snow, ice, and bare patches of their main plateau
a couple of darkish spots which we took to be Lake's camp and boring.

The higher foothills shot up between five and six miles away, forming a
range almost distinct from the terrifying line of more than Himalayan
peaks beyond them. At length Ropes--the student who had relieved
McTighe at the controls--began to head downward toward the left-hand
dark spot whose size marked it as the camp. As he did so, McTighe sent
out the last uncensored wireless message the world was to receive from
our expedition.

Every one, of course, has read the brief and unsatisfying bulletins of
the rest of our antarctic sojourn.

Some hours after our landing we sent a guarded report of the tragedy we
found, and reluctantly announced the wiping out of the whole Lake party
by the frightful wind of the preceding day, or of the night before
that. There were eleven known dead, young Gedney was missing.

People pardoned our hazy lack of details through realization of the
shock the sad event must have caused us, and believed us when we
explained that the mangling action of the wind had rendered all eleven
bodies unsuitable for transportation outside.

Indeed, I flatter myself that even in the midst of our distress, utter
bewilderment, and soul-clutching horror, we scarcely went beyond the
truth in any specific instance. The tremendous significance lies in
what we dared not tell; what I would not tell now but for the need of
warning others off from nameless terrors.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is a fact that the wind had wrought dreadful havoc. Whether all
could have lived through it, even without the other thing, is gravely
open to doubt. The storm, with its fury of madly driven ice particles,
must have been beyond anything our expedition had encountered before.

One aëroplane shelter--all, it seems, had been left in a far too flimsy
and inadequate state--was nearly pulverized; and the derrick at the
distant boring was entirely shaken to pieces.

The exposed metal of the grounded planes and drilling machinery was
bruised into a high polish, and two of the small tents were flattened
despite their snow banking. Wooden surfaces left out in the blast were
pitted and denuded of paint, and all signs of tracks in the snow were
completely obliterated.

It is also true that we found none of the archæan biological objects in
a condition to take outside as a whole. We did gather some minerals
from a vast, tumbled pile, including several of the greenish soapstone
fragments whose odd five-pointed rounding and faint patterns of grouped
dots caused so many doubtful comparisons, and some fossil bones, among
which were the most typical of the curiously injured specimens.

None of the dogs survived, their hurriedly built snow inclosure near
the camp being almost wholly destroyed. The wind may have done that,
though the greater breakage, on the side next to the camp, which was
not the windward one, suggests an outward leap or break of the frantic
beasts themselves.

All three sledges were gone, and we have tried to explain that the wind
may have blown them off into the unknown. The drill and ice-melting
machinery at the boring were too badly damaged to warrant salvage, so
we used them to choke up that subtly disturbing gateway to the past
which Lake had blasted.

We likewise left at the camp the two most shaken up of the planes;
since our surviving party had only four real pilots--Sherman, Danforth,
McTighe, and Ropes--in all, with Danforth in a poor nervous shape to
navigate. We brought back all the books, scientific equipment, and
other incidentals we could find, though much was rather unaccountably
blown away. Spare tents and furs were either missing or badly out of
condition.

It was approximately four p.m., after wide plane cruising had forced
us to give Gedney up for lost, that we sent our guarded message to the
_Arkham_ for relaying; and I think we did well to keep it as calm and
noncommittal as we succeeded in doing.

The most we said about agitation concerned our dogs, whose frantic
uneasiness near the biological specimens was to be expected from poor
Lake's accounts. We did not mention, I think, their display of the
same uneasiness when sniffing around the queer greenish soapstones
and certain other objects in the disordered region--objects including
scientific instruments, aëroplanes, and machinery, both at the camp
and at the boring, whose parts had been loosened, moved, or otherwise
tampered with by winds that must have harbored singular curiosity and
investigativeness.

About the fourteen biological specimens we were pardonably indefinite.
We said that the only ones we discovered were damaged, but that enough
was left of them to prove Lake's description wholly and impressively
accurate. It was hard work keeping our personal emotions out of this
matter--and we did not mention numbers or say exactly how we had found
those which we did find. We had by that time agreed not to transmit
anything suggesting madness on the part of Lake's men, and it surely
looked like madness to find six imperfect monstrosities carefully
buried upright in nine-foot snow graves under five-pointed mounds
punched over with groups of dots in patterns exactly like those on
the queer greenish soapstones dug up from Mesozoic or Tertiary times.
The eight perfect specimens mentioned by Lake seemed to have been
completely blown away.

       *       *       *       *       *

We were careful, too, about the public's general peace of mind; hence
Danforth and I said little about that frightful trip over the mountains
the next day. It was the fact that only a radically lightened plane
could possibly cross a range of such height which mercifully limited
that scouting tour to the two of us.

On our return at one a.m., Danforth was close to hysterics, but kept an
admirably stiff upper lip. It took no persuasion to make him promise
not to show our sketches and the other things we brought away in our
pockets, not to say anything more to the others than what we had agreed
to relay outside, and to hide our camera films for private development
later on; so that part of my present story will be as new to Pabodie,
McTighe, Ropes, Sherman, and the rest as it will be to that world in
general. Indeed--Danforth is closer mouthed than I: for he saw, or
thinks he saw, one thing he will not tell even me.

As all know, our report included a tale of a hard ascent--a
confirmation of Lake's opinion that the great peaks are of archæan
slate and other very primal crumpled strata unchanged since at least
middle Comanchean time, a conventional comment on the regularity of the
clinging cube and rampart formations, a decision that the cave mouths
indicate dissolved calcareous veins, a conjecture that certain slopes
and passes would permit of the scaling and crossing of the entire range
by seasoned mountaineers, and a remark that the mysterious other side
holds a lofty and immense superplateau as ancient and unchanging as the
mountains themselves--twenty thousand feet in elevation, with grotesque
rock formations protruding through a thin glacial layer and with low
gradual foothills between the general plateau surface and the sheer
precipices of the highest peaks.

This body of data is in every respect true so far as it goes, and
it completely satisfied the men at the camp. We laid our absence of
sixteen hours--a longer time than our announced flying, landing,
reconnoitering, and rock-collecting program called for--to a long
mythical spell of adverse wind conditions, and told truly of our
landing on the farther foothills.

Fortunately our tale sounded realistic and prosaic enough not to tempt
any of the others into emulating our flight. Had any tried to do that,
I would have used every ounce of my persuasion to stop them--and I do
not know what Danforth would have done.

While we were gone, Pabodie, Sherman, Ropes, McTighe, and Williamson
had worked like beavers over Lake's two best planes, fitting them
again for use, despite the altogether unaccountable juggling of their
operative mechanism.

We decided to load all the planes the next morning and start back for
our old base as soon as possible. Even though indirect, that was the
safest way to work toward McMurdo Sound; for a straight-line flight
across the most utterly unknown stretches of the æon-dead continent
would involve many additional hazards.

Further exploration was hardly feasible in view of our tragic
decimation and the ruin of our drilling machinery. The doubts and
horrors around us--which we did not reveal--made us wish only to escape
from this austral world of desolation and brooding madness as swiftly
as we could.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the public knows, our return to the world was accomplished without
further disasters. All planes reached the old base on the evening of
the next day--January 27th--after a swift nonstop flight; and on the
28th we made McMurdo Sound in two laps, the one pause being very brief,
and occasioned by a faulty rudder, in the furious wind over the ice
shelf after we had cleared the great plateau.

In five days more, the _Arkham_ and _Miskatonic_, with all hands and
equipment on board, were shaking clear of the thickening field ice
and working up Ross Sea, with the mocking mountains of Victoria Land
looming westward against a troubled antarctic sky and twisting the
wind's wails into a wide-ranged musical piping which chilled my soul to
the quick.

Less than a fortnight later we left the last hint of polar land behind
us and thanked heaven that we were clear of a haunted, accursed realm
where life and death, space and time, have made black and blasphemous
alliances in the unknown epochs since matter first writhed and swam on
the planet's scarce-cooled crust.

Since our return we have all constantly worked to discourage antarctic
exploration, and have kept certain doubts and guesses to ourselves with
splendid unity and faithfulness. Even young Danforth, with his nervous
breakdown, has not flinched or babbled to his doctors.

Indeed, as I have said, there is one thing he thinks he alone saw
which he will not tell even me, though I think it would help his
psychological state if he would consent to do so. It might explain and
relieve much, though perhaps the thing was no more than the delusive
aftermath of an earlier shock. That is the impression I gather after
those rare, irresponsible moments when he whispers disjointed things to
me--things which he repudiates vehemently as soon as he gets a grip on
himself again.

It will be hard work deterring others from the great white south, and
some of our efforts may directly harm our cause by drawing inquiring
notice. We might have known from the first that human curiosity is
undying, and that the results we announced would be enough to spur
others ahead on the same age-long pursuit of the unknown.

Lake's reports of those biological monstrosities had aroused
naturalists and palæontologists to the highest pitch, though we were
sensible enough not to show the detached parts we had taken from the
actual buried specimens, or our photographs of those specimens as
they were found. We also refrained from showing the more puzzling of
the scarred bones and greenish soapstones; while Danforth and I have
closely guarded the pictures we took or drew on the superplateau across
the range, and the crumpled things we smoothed, studied in terror, and
brought away in our pockets.

But now that Starkweather-Moore party is organizing, and with a
thoroughness far beyond anything our outfit attempted--if not
dissuaded, they will get to the innermost nucleus of the antarctic
and melt and bore till they bring up that which we know may end the
world. So I must break through all reticences at last--even about that
ultimate, nameless thing beyond the mountains of madness.

                                  IV.

It is only with vast hesitancy and repugnance that I let my mind go
back to Lake's camp and what we really found there--and to that other
thing beyond the awful mountain wall.

I have told of the wind-ravaged terrain, the damaged shelters, the
disarranged machinery, the varied uneasiness of our dogs, the missing
sledges and other items, the deaths of men and dogs, the absence of
Gedney, and the six insanely buried biological specimens, strangely
sound in texture for all their structural injuries, from a world forty
million years dead. I do not recall whether I mentioned that upon
checking up the canine bodies we found one dog missing. We did not
think much about that till later--indeed, only Danforth and I have
thought of it at all.

The principal things I have been keeping back relate to the bodies,
and to certain subtle points which may or may not lend a hideous and
incredible kind of rationale to the apparent chaos.

At the time, I tried to keep the men's minds off those points; for
it was so much simpler--so much more normal--to lay everything to an
outbreak of madness on the part of some of Lake's party. From the look
of things, that demon mountain wind must have been enough to drive
any man mad in the midst of this center of all earthly mystery and
desolation.

The crowning abnormality, of course, was the condition of the
bodies--men and dogs alike. They had all been in some terrible kind
of conflict, and were torn and mangled in fiendish and altogether
inexplicable ways. Death, so far as we could judge, had in each case
come from strangulation or laceration.

The dogs had evidently started the trouble, for the state of their
ill-built corral bore witness to its forcible breakage from within.
It had been set some distance from the camp because of the hatred of
the animals for those hellish archæan organisms, but the precaution
seemed to have been taken in vain. When left alone in that monstrous
wind, behind flimsy walls of insufficient height, they must have
stampeded--whether from the wind itself, or from some subtle,
increasing odor emitted by the nightmare specimens, one could not say.

       *       *       *       *       *

But whatever had happened, it was hideous and revolting enough.
Perhaps I had better put squeamishness aside and tell the worst at
last--though with a categorical statement of opinion, based on the
first-hand observations and most rigid deductions of both Danforth and
myself, that the then missing Gedney was in no way responsible for the
loathsome horrors we found.

I have said that the bodies were frightfully mangled. Now I must
add that some were incised and subtracted from in the most curious,
cold-blooded, and inhuman fashion. It was the same with dogs and men.
All the healthier, fatter bodies, quadrupedal or bipedal, had had
their most solid masses of tissue cut out and removed, as by a careful
butcher; and around them was a strange sprinkling of salt--taken from
the ravaged provision chests on the planes--which conjured up the most
horrible associations.

The thing had occurred in one of the crude aëroplane shelters from
which the plane had been dragged out, and subsequent winds had effaced
all tracks which could have supplied any plausible theory. Scattered
bits of clothing, roughly slashed from the human incision subjects,
hinted no clues.

It is useless to bring up the half impression of certain faint snow
prints in one shielded corner of the ruined inclosure--because that
impression did not concern human prints at all, but was clearly
mixed up with all the talk of fossil prints which poor Lake had been
giving throughout the preceding weeks. One had to be careful of one's
imagination in the lee of those overshadowing mountains of madness.

As I have indicated, Gedney and one dog turned out to be missing in
the end. When we came on that terrible shelter we had missed two dogs
and two men; but the fairly unharmed dissecting tent, which we entered
after investigating the monstrous graves, had something to reveal.

It was not as Lake had left it, for the covered parts of the primal
monstrosity had been removed from the improvised table. Indeed, we had
already realized that one of the six imperfect and insanely buried
things we had found--the one with the trace of a peculiarly hateful
odor--must represent the collected sections of the entity which Lake
had tried to analyze.

On and around that laboratory table were strewn other things, and it
did not take long for us to guess that those things were the carefully,
though oddly and inexpertly dissected parts of one man and one dog. I
shall spare the feelings of survivors by omitting mention of the man's
identity.

Lake's anatomical instruments were missing, but there were evidences
of their careful cleansing. The gasoline stove was also gone, though
around it we found a curious litter of matches. We buried the human
parts beside the other ten men, and the canine parts with the other
thirty-five dogs. Concerning the bizarre smudges on the laboratory
table, and on the jumble of roughly handled illustrated books scattered
near it, we were much too bewildered to speculate.

This formed the worst of the camp horror, but other things were
equally perplexing. The disappearance of Gedney, the one dog, the
eight uninjured biological specimens, the three sledges, and certain
instruments, illustrated technical and scientific books, writing
materials, electric torches and batteries, food and fuel, heating
apparatus, spare tents, fur suits, and the like, was utterly beyond
sane conjecture; as were likewise the spatter-fringed ink blots on
certain pieces of paper, and the evidences of curious alien fumbling
and experimentation around the planes and all other mechanical devices
both at the camp and at the boring. The dogs seemed to abhor this oddly
disordered machinery.

Then, too, there was the upsetting of the larder, the disappearance
of certain staples, and the jarringly comical heap of tin cans pried
open in the most unlikely ways and at the most unlikely places. The
profusion of scattered matches, intact, broken, or spent, formed
another minor enigma--as did the two or three tent cloths and fur suits
which we found lying about with peculiar and unorthodox slashings
conceivably due to clumsy efforts at unimaginable adaptations.

The maltreatment of the human and canine bodies, and the crazy burial
of the damaged archæan specimens, were all of a piece with this
apparent disintegrative madness. In view of just such an eventuality
as the present one, we carefully photographed all the main evidences
of insane disorder at the camp; and shall use the prints to buttress
our pleas against the departure of the proposed Starkweather-Moore
Expedition.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our first act after finding the bodies in the shelter was to photograph
and open the row of insane graves with the five-pointed snow mounds.
We could not help noticing the resemblance of these monstrous mounds,
with their clusters of grouped dots, to poor Lake's descriptions of the
strange greenish soapstones; and when we came on some of the soapstones
themselves in the great mineral pile we found the likeness very close
indeed.

The whole general formation, it must be made clear, seemed abominably
suggestive of the starfish head of the archæan entities; and we agreed
that the suggestion must have worked potently upon the sensitized minds
of Lake's overwrought party.

For madness--centering in Gedney as the only possible surviving
agent--was the explanation spontaneously adopted by everybody so far
as spoken utterance was concerned; though I will not be so naïve as
to deny that each of us may have harbored wild guesses which sanity
forbade him to formulate completely.

Sherman, Pabodie, and McTighe made an exhaustive aëroplane cruise over
all the surrounding territory in the afternoon, sweeping the horizon
with field glasses in quest of Gedney and of the various missing
things; but nothing came to light.

The party reported that the titan-barrier range extended endlessly to
right and left alike, without any diminution in height or essential
structure. On some of the peaks, though, the regular cube and rampart
formations were bolder and plainer, having doubly fantastic similitudes
to Roerich-painted Asian hill ruins. The distribution of cryptical cave
mouths on the black snow-denuded summits seemed roughly even as far as
the range could be traced.

In spite of all the prevailing horrors we were left with enough sheer
scientific zeal and adventurousness to wonder about the unknown realm
beyond those mysterious mountains.

As our guarded messages stated, we rested at midnight after our day of
terror and bafflement--but not without a tentative plan for one or more
range-crossing altitude flights in a lightened plane with aërial camera
and geologist's outfit, beginning the following morning.

It was decided that Danforth and I try it first, and we awaked at seven
a.m. intending an early trip; though heavy winds--mentioned in our
brief bulletin to the outside world--delayed our start till nearly nine
o'clock.

I have already repeated the noncommittal story we told the men at
camp--and relayed outside--after our return sixteen hours later.
It is now my terrible duty to amplify this account by filling in
the merciful blanks with hints of what we really saw in that hidden
transmontane world--hints of the revelations which have finally driven
Danforth to a nervous collapse.

I wish he would add a really frank word about the thing which he thinks
he alone saw--even though it was probably a nervous delusion--and which
was perhaps the last straw that put him where he is; but he is firm
against that. All I can do is to repeat his later disjointed whispers
about what set him shrieking as the plane soared back through the
wind-tortured mountain pass after that real and tangible shock which I
shared.

This will form my last word. If the plain signs of surviving elder
horrors in what I disclose be not enough to keep others from meddling
with the inner antarctic--or at least from prying too deeply beneath
the surface of that ultimate waste of forbidden secrets and unhuman,
æon-cursed desolation--the responsibility for unnamable and perhaps
immeasurable evils will not be mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Danforth and I, studying the notes made by Pabodie in his afternoon
flight and checking up with a sextant, had calculated that the lowest
available pass in the range lay somewhat to the right of us, within
sight of camp, and about twenty-three thousand or twenty-four thousand
feet above sea-level. For this point, then, we first headed in the
lightened plane as we embarked on our flight of discovery.

The camp itself, on foothills which sprang from a high continental
plateau, was some twelve thousand feet in altitude; hence the
actual height increase necessary was not so vast as it might seem.
Nevertheless we were acutely conscious of the rarefied air and intense
cold as we rose; for, on account of visibility conditions, we had
to leave the cabin windows open. We were dressed, of course, in our
heaviest furs.

As we drew near the forbidding peaks, dark and sinister above the
line of crevasse-riven snow and interstitial glaciers, we noticed more
and more the curiously regular formations clinging to the slopes; and
thought again of the strange Asian paintings of Nicholas Roerich.

The ancient and wind-weathered rock strata fully verified all of
Lake's bulletins, and proved that these pinnacles had been towering
up in exactly the same way since a surprisingly early time in earth's
history--perhaps over fifty million years. How much higher they had
once been, it was futile to guess; but everything about this strange
region pointed to obscure atmospheric influences unfavorable to
change, and calculated to retard the usual climatic processes of rock
disintegration.

But it was the mountainside tangle of regular cubes, ramparts, and cave
mouths which fascinated and disturbed us most. I studied them with a
field glass and took aërial photographs while Danforth drove; and at
times I relieved him at the controls--though my aviation knowledge was
purely an amateur's--in order to let him use the binoculars.

We could easily see that much of the material of the things was a
lightish archæan quartzite, unlike any formation visible over broad
areas of the general surface; and that their regularity was extreme and
uncanny to an extent which poor Lake had scarcely hinted.

As he had said, their edges were crumbled and rounded from untold
æons of savage weathering; but their preternatural solidity and tough
material had saved them from obliteration. Many parts, especially
those closest to the slopes, seemed identical in substance with the
surrounding rock surface.

The whole arrangement looked like the ruins of Macchu Picchu in
the Andes, or the primal foundation walls of Kish as dug up by the
Oxford-Field Museum Expedition in 1929; and both Danforth and I
obtained that occasional impression of separate Cyclopean blocks which
Lake had attributed to his flight-companion Carroll.

How to account for such things in this place was frankly beyond me, and
I felt queerly humbled as a geologist. Igneous formations often have
strange regularities--like the famous Giants' Causeway in Ireland--but
this stupendous range, despite Lake's original suspicion of smoking
cones, was above all else nonvolcanic in evident structure.

The curious cave mouths, near which the odd formation seemed most
abundant, presented another, albeit a lesser puzzle because of their
regularity of outline. They were, as Lake's bulletin had said, often
approximately square or semicircular; as if the natural orifices had
been shaped to greater symmetry by some magic hand. Their numerousness
and wide distribution were remarkable, and suggested that the whole
region was honeycombed with tunnels dissolved out of limestone strata.

Such glimpses as we secured did not extend far within the caverns, but
we saw that they were apparently clear of stalactites and stalagmites.
Outside, those parts of the mountain slopes adjoining the apertures
seemed invariably smooth and regular; and Danforth thought that the
slight cracks and pittings of the weathering tended toward unusual
patterns.

Filled as he was with the horrors and strangenesses discovered at the
camp, he hinted that the pittings vaguely resembled those baffling
groups of dots sprinkled over the primeval greenish soapstones, so
hideously duplicated on the madly conceived snow mounds above those six
buried monstrosities.

       *       *       *       *       *

We had risen gradually in flying over the higher foothills and along
toward the relatively low pass we had selected. As we advanced we
occasionally looked down at the snow and ice of the land route,
wondering whether we could have attempted the trip with the simpler
equipment of earlier days.

Somewhat to our surprise we saw that the terrain was far from difficult
as such things go; and that despite the crevasses and other bad spots
it would not have been likely to deter the sledges of a Scott, a
Shackleton, or an Amundsen. Some of the glaciers appeared to lead up to
wind-bared passes with unusual continuity, and upon reaching our chosen
pass we found that its case formed no exception.

Our sensations of tense expectancy as we prepared to round the crest
and peer out over an untrodden world can hardly be described on paper;
even though we had no cause to think the regions beyond the range
essentially different from those already seen and traversed. The touch
of evil mystery in these barrier mountains, and in the beckoning sea of
opalescent sky glimpsed betwixt their summits, was a highly subtle and
attenuated matter not to be explained in literal words. Rather was it
an affair of vague psychological symbolism and æsthetic association--a
thing mixed up with exotic poetry and paintings, and with archaic myths
lurking in shunned and forbidden volumes.

Even the wind's burden held a peculiar strain of conscious malignity;
and for a second it seemed that the composite sound included a bizarre
musical whistling, or piping over a wide range as the blast swept in
and out of the omnipresent and resonant cave mouths. There was a cloudy
note of reminiscent repulsion in this sound, as complex and unplaceable
as any of the other dark impressions.

We were now, after a slow ascent, at a height of twenty-three thousand
five hundred and seventy feet according to the aneroid; and had left
the region of clinging snow definitely below us. Up here were only
dark, bare rock slopes and the start of rough-ribbed glaciers--but with
those provocative cubes, ramparts, and echoing cave mouths to add a
portent of the unnatural, the fantastic, and the dreamlike.

Looking along the line of high peaks, I thought I could see the one
mentioned by poor Lake, with a rampart exactly on top. It seemed to be
half lost in a queer antarctic haze--such a haze, perhaps, as had been
responsible for Lake's early notion of volcanism.

The pass loomed directly before us, smooth and windswept between its
jagged and malignly frowning pylons. Beyond it was a sky fretted with
swirling vapors and lighted by the low polar sun--the sky of that
mysterious farther realm upon which we felt no human eye had ever gazed.

A few more feet of altitude and we would behold that realm. Danforth
and I, unable to speak except in shouts amidst the howling, piping wind
that raced through the pass and added to the noise of the unmuffled
engines, exchanged eloquent glances. And then, having gained those last
few feet, we did indeed stare across the momentous divide and over the
unsampled secrets of an elder and utterly alien earth.

                                  V.

I think that both of us simultaneously cried out in mixed awe, wonder,
terror, and disbelief in our own senses as we finally cleared the pass
and saw what lay beyond. Of course, we must have had some natural
theory in the back of our heads to steady our faculties for the moment.
Probably we thought of such things as the grotesquely weathered stones
of the Garden of the Gods in Colorado, or the fantastically symmetrical
wind-carved rocks of the Arizona desert. Perhaps we even half thought
the sight a mirage like that we had seen the morning before on first
approaching those mountains of madness.

We must have had some such normal notions to fall back upon as our
eyes swept that limitless, tempest-scarred plateau and grasped the
almost endless labyrinth of colossal, regular, and geometrically
eurythmic stone masses which reared their crumbled and pitted crests
above a glacial sheet not more than forty or fifty feet deep at its
thickest, and in places obviously thinner.

The effect of the monstrous sight was indescribable, for some fiendish
violation of known natural law seemed certain at the outset. Here,
on a hellishly ancient table-land fully twenty thousand feet high,
and in a climate deadly to habitation since a prehuman age not less
than five hundred thousand years ago, there stretched nearly to the
vision's limit a tangle of orderly stone which only the desperation of
mental self-defense could possibly attribute to any but a conscious and
artificial cause.

[Illustration: _The effect of the monstrous sight was indescribable!
Some fiendish violation of natural law!_]

We had previously dismissed, so far as serious thought was concerned,
any theory that the cubes and ramparts of the mountainsides were other
than natural in origin. How could they be otherwise, when man himself
could scarcely have been differentiated from the great apes at the time
when this region succumbed to the present unbroken reign of glacial
death?

Yet now the sway of reason seemed irrefutably shaken, for this
Cyclopean maze of squared, curved, and angled blocks had features which
cut off all comfortable refuge. It was, very clearly, the blasphemous
city of the mirage in stark, objective, and ineluctable reality. That
damnable portent had had a material basis after all--there had been
some horizontal stratum of ice dust in the upper air, and this shocking
stone survival had projected its image across the mountains according
to the simple laws of reflection. Of course, the phantom had been
twisted and exaggerated, and had contained things which the real source
did not contain; yet now, as we saw that real source, we thought it
even more hideous and menacing than its distant image.

[Illustration: _It was, very clearly, the blasphemous city of the
mirage--in stark, objective reality!_]

Only the incredible, unhuman massiveness of these vast stone towers
and ramparts had saved the frightful thing from utter annihilation in
the hundreds of thousands--perhaps millions--of years it had brooded
there amidst the blasts of a bleak upland. "Corona Mundi--Roof of the
World----" All sorts of fantastic phrases sprang to our lips as we
looked dizzily down at the unbelievable spectacle.

I thought again of the eldritch primal myths that had so persistently
haunted me since my first sight of this dead antarctic world--of
the demonic plateau of Leng, of the Mi-Go, or Abominable Snow Men
of the Himalayas, of the Pnakotic Manuscripts with their prehuman
implications, of the Cthulhu cult, of the _Necronomicon_, and of the
Hyperborean legends of formless Tsathoggua and the worse than formless
star spawn associated with that semientity.

       *       *       *       *       *

For boundless miles in every direction the thing stretched off with
very little thinning; indeed, as our eyes followed it to the right and
left along the base of the low, gradual foothills which separated it
from the actual mountain rim, we decided that we could see no thinning
at all except for an interruption at the left of the pass through
which we had come. We had merely struck, at random, a limited part of
something of incalculable extent.

The foothills were more sparsely sprinkled with grotesque stone
structures, linking the terrible city to the already familiar cubes and
ramparts which evidently formed its mountain outposts. These latter,
as well as the queer cave mouths, were as thick on the inner as on the
outer sides of the mountains.

The nameless stone labyrinth consisted, for the most part, of
walls from ten to one hundred and fifty feet in ice-clear height,
and of a thickness varying from five to ten feet. It was composed
mostly of prodigious blocks of dark primordial slate, schist, and
sandstone--blocks in many cases as large as 4 × 6 × 8 feet--though in
several places it seemed to be carved out of a solid, uneven bed rock
of pre-Cambrian slate.

The buildings were far from equal in size, there being innumerable
honeycomb arrangements of enormous extent as well as smaller separate
structures.

The general shape of these things tended to be conical, pyramidal, or
terraced; though there were many perfect cylinders, perfect cubes,
clusters of cubes, and other rectangular forms, and a peculiar
sprinkling of angled edifices whose five-pointed ground plan roughly
suggested modern fortifications. The builders had made constant and
expert use of the principle of the arch, and domes had probably existed
in the city's heyday.

The whole tangle was monstrously weathered, and the glacial surface
from where the towers projected was strewn with fallen blocks and
immemorial débris. Where the glaciation was transparent we could see
the lower parts of the gigantic piles, and we noticed the ice-preserved
stone bridges which connected the different towers at varying distances
above the ground. On the exposed walls we could detect the scarred
places where other and higher bridges of the same sort had existed.

Closer inspection revealed countless largish windows; some of which
were closed with shutters of a petrified material originally wood,
though most gaped open in a sinister and menacing fashion.

Many of the ruins, of course, were roofless, and with uneven though
wind-rounded upper edges; whilst others, of a more sharply conical or
pyramidal model or else protected by higher surrounding structures,
preserved intact outlines despite the omnipresent crumbling and
pitting. With the field glass we could barely make out what seemed to
be sculptural decorations in horizontal bands--decorations including
those curious groups of dots whose presence on the ancient soapstones
now assumed a vastly larger significance.

In many places the buildings were totally ruined and the ice sheet
deeply riven from various geologic causes. In other places the
stonework was worn down to the very level of the glaciation. One
broad swath, extending from the plateau's interior to a cleft in the
foothills about a mile to the left of the pass we had traversed, was
wholly free from buildings. It probably represented, we concluded,
the course of some great river which in Tertiary times--millions
of years ago--had poured through the city and into some prodigious
subterranean abyss of the great barrier range. Certainly, this was
above all a region of caves, gulfs, and underground secrets beyond
human penetration.

       *       *       *       *       *

Looking back to our sensations, and recalling our dazedness at viewing
this monstrous survival from æons we had thought prehuman, I can only
wonder that we preserved the semblance of equilibrium which we did.
Of course, we knew that something--chronology, scientific theory, or
our own consciousness--was woefully awry; yet we kept enough poise to
guide the plane, observe many things quite minutely, and take a careful
series of photographs which may yet serve both us and the world in good
stead.

In my case, ingrained scientific habit may have helped; for above all
my bewilderment and sense of menace there burned a dominant curiosity
to fathom more of this age-old secret--to know what sort of beings
had built and lived in this incalculably gigantic place, and what
relation to the general world of its time or of other times so unique a
concentration of life could have had.

For this place could be no ordinary city. It must have formed the
primary nucleus and center of some archaic and unbelievable chapter of
earth's history whose outward ramifications, recalled only dimly in the
most obscure and distorted myths, had vanished utterly amidst the chaos
of terrene convulsions long before any human race we know had shambled
out of apedom.

Here sprawled a Palæogæan megalopolis compared with which the fabled
Atlantis and Lemuria, Commoriom and Uzuldaroum, and Olathoë in the
land of Lomar are recent things of to-day--not even of yesterday;
a megalopolis ranking with such whispered prehuman blasphemies as
Valusia, R'lyeh, Ib in the land of Mnar, and the Nameless City of
Arabia Deserta.

As we flew above that tangle of stark Titan towers my imagination
sometimes escaped all bounds and roved aimlessly in realms of fantastic
associations--even weaving links betwixt this lost world and some of my
own wildest dreams concerning the mad horror at the camp.

The plane's fuel tank, in the interest of greater lightness, had
been only partly filled; hence we now had to exert caution in our
explorations. Even so, however, we covered an enormous extent of
ground--or rather, air--after swooping down to a level where the wind
became virtually negligible.

There seemed to be no limit to the mountain range, or to the length
of the frightful stone city which bordered its inner foothills. Fifty
miles of flight in each direction showed no major change in the
labyrinth of rock and masonry that clawed up corpselike through the
eternal ice.

There were, though, some highly absorbing diversifications; such as
the carvings on the canyon where that broad river had once pierced the
foothills and approached its sinking place in the great range.

The headlands at the stream's entrance had been boldly carved into
Cyclopean pylons; and something about the ridgy, barrel-shaped designs
stirred up oddly vague, hateful, and confusing semiremembrances in both
Danforth and me.

We also came upon several star-shaped open spaces, evidently public
squares, and noted various undulations in the terrain. Where a sharp
hill rose, it was generally hollowed out into some sort of rambling
stone edifice; but there were at least two exceptions. Of these latter,
one was too badly weathered to disclose what had been on the jutting
eminence, while the other still bore a fantastic conical monument
carved out of the solid rock and roughly resembling such things as the
well-known Snake Tomb in the ancient valley of Petra.

Flying inland from the mountains, we discovered that the city was
not of infinite width, even though its length along the foothills
seemed endless. After about thirty miles the grotesque stone buildings
began to thin out, and in ten more miles we came to an unbroken waste
virtually without signs of sentient artifice. The course of the river
beyond the city seemed marked by a broad, depressed line, while the
land assumed a somewhat greater ruggedness, seeming to slope slightly
upward as it receded in the mist-hazed west.

So far we had made no landing, yet to leave the plateau without an
attempt at entering some of the monstrous structures would have been
inconceivable. Accordingly, we decided to find a smooth place on the
foothills near our navigable pass, there grounding the plane and
preparing to do some exploration on foot.

Though these gradual slopes were partly covered with a scattering of
ruins, low flying soon disclosed an ample number of possible landing
places. Selecting that nearest to the pass, since our next flight would
be across the great range and back to camp, we succeeded about twelve
thirty p.m. in coming down on a smooth, hard snow field wholly devoid
of obstacles and well adapted to a swift and favorable take-off later
on.

       *       *       *       *       *

It did not seem necessary to protect the plane with a snow banking for
so brief a time and in so comfortable an absence of high winds at this
level; hence we merely saw that the landing skis were safely lodged,
and that the vital parts of the mechanism were guarded against the cold.

For our foot journey we discarded the heaviest of our flying furs, and
took with us a small outfit consisting of pocket compass, hand camera,
light provisions, voluminous notebooks and paper, geologist's hammer
and chisel, specimen bags, coil of climbing rope, and powerful electric
torches with extra batteries; this equipment having been carried in the
plane on the chance that we might be able to effect a landing, take
ground pictures, make drawings and topographical sketches, and obtain
rock specimens from some bare slope, outcropping, or mountain cave.

Fortunately, we had a supply of extra paper to tear up, place in a
spare specimen bag, and use on the ancient principle of hare and hounds
for marking our course in any interior mazes we might be able to
penetrate. This had been brought in case we found some cave system with
air quiet enough to allow such a rapid and easy method in place of the
usual rock-chipping method of trail blazing.

Walking cautiously downhill over the crusted snow, toward the
stupendous stone labyrinth that loomed against the opalescent west,
we felt almost as keen a sense of imminent marvels as we had felt on
approaching the unfathomed mountain pass four hours previously.

True, we had become visually familiar with the incredible secret
concealed by the barrier peaks; yet the prospect of actually entering
primordial walls reared by conscious beings perhaps millions of years
ago--before any known race of men could have existed--was none the
less awesome and potentially terrible in its implications of cosmic
abnormality.

Though the thinness of the air at this prodigious altitude made
exertion somewhat more difficult than usual, both Danforth and I found
ourselves bearing up very well, and felt equal to almost any task which
might fall to our lot.

It took only a few steps to bring us to a shapeless ruin worn level
with the snow, while ten or fifteen rods farther on there was a huge,
roofless rampart still complete in its gigantic five-pointed outline,
and rising to an irregular height of ten or eleven feet. For this
latter we headed; and when at last we were actually able to touch
its weathered Cyclopean blocks, we felt that we had established an
unprecedented and almost blasphemous link with forgotten æons normally
closed to our species.

This rampart, shaped like a star and perhaps three hundred feet from
point to point, was built of Jurassic sandstone blocks of irregular
size, averaging 6 x 8 feet in surface. There was a row of arched
loopholes or windows about four feet wide and five feet high, spaced
quite symmetrically along the points of the star and at its inner
angles, and with the bottoms about four feet from the glaciated surface.

Looking through these, we could see that the masonry was fully five
feet thick, that there were no partitions remaining within, and that
there were traces of banded carvings or bas-reliefs on the interior
walls--facts we had indeed guessed before, when flying low over this
rampart and others like it. Though lower parts must have originally
existed, all traces of such things were now wholly obscured by the deep
layer of ice and snow at this point.

We crawled through one of the windows and vainly tried to decipher
the nearly effaced mural designs, but did not attempt to disturb
the glaciated floor. Our orientation flights had indicated that many
buildings in the city proper were less ice-choked, and that we might
perhaps find wholly clear interiors leading down to the true ground
level if we entered those structures still roofed at the top.

Before we left the rampart we photographed it carefully, and studied
its mortarless Cyclopean masonry with complete bewilderment. We wished
that Pabodie were present, for his engineering knowledge might have
helped us guess how such titanic blocks could have been handled in that
unbelievably remote age when the city and its outskirts were built up.

       *       *       *       *       *

The half-mile walk downhill to the actual city, with the upper wind
shrieking vainly and savagely through the skyward peaks in the
background, was something of which the smallest details will always
remain engraved on my mind. Only in fantastic nightmares could any
human beings but Danforth and me conceive such optical effects.

Between us and the churning vapors of the west lay that monstrous
tangle of dark stone towers, its outré and incredible forms impressing
us afresh at every new angle of vision. It was a mirage in solid stone,
and were it not for the photographs I would still doubt that such a
thing could be. The general type of masonry was identical with that
of the rampart we had examined; but the extravagant shapes which this
masonry took in its urban manifestations were past all description.

Even the pictures illustrate only one or two phases of its endless
variety, preternatural massiveness, and utterly alien exoticism. There
were geometrical forms for which an Euclid could scarcely find a
name--cones of all degrees of irregularity and truncation, terraces
of every sort of provocative disproportion, shafts with odd bulbous
enlargements, broken columns in curious groups, and five-pointed or
five-ridged arrangements of mad grotesqueness.

As we drew nearer we could see beneath certain transparent parts of the
ice sheet, and detect some of the tubular stone bridges that connected
the crazily sprinkled structures at various heights. Of orderly streets
there seemed to be none, the only broad open swath being a mile to the
left, where the ancient river had doubtless flowed through the town
into the mountains.

Our field glasses showed the external, horizontal bands of nearly
effaced sculptures and dot groups to be very prevalent, and we could
half imagine what the city must once have looked like--even though most
of the roofs and tower tops had necessarily perished.

As a whole, it had been a complex tangle of twisted lanes and alleys,
all of them deep canyons, and some little better than tunnels because
of the overhanging masonry or overarching bridges.

Now, outspread below us, it loomed like a dream phantasy against a
westward mist through whose northern end the low, reddish antarctic sun
of early afternoon was struggling to shine; and when, for a moment,
that sun encountered a denser obstruction and plunged the scene into
temporary shadow, the effect was subtly menacing in a way I can never
hope to depict. Even the faint howling and piping of the unfelt wind in
the great mountain passes behind us took on a wilder note of purposeful
malignity.

The last stage of our descent to the town was unusually steep and
abrupt, and a rock outcropping at the edge where the grade changed led
us to think that an artificial terrace had once existed there. Under
the glaciation, we believed, there must be a flight of steps or its
equivalent.

When at last we plunged into the town itself, clambering over fallen
masonry and shrinking from the oppressive nearness and dwarfing height
of omnipresent crumbling and pitted walls, our sensations again became
such that I marvel at the amount of self-control we retained.

Danforth was frankly jumpy, and began making some offensively
irrelevant speculations about the horror at the camp--which I resented
all the more because I could not help sharing certain conclusions
forced upon us by many features of this morbid survival from nightmare
antiquity.

The speculations worked on his imagination, too; for in one
place--where a débris-littered alley turned a sharp corner--he insisted
that he saw faint traces of ground markings which he did not like;
whilst elsewhere he stopped to listen to a subtle, imaginary sound
from some undefined point--a muffled musical piping, he said, not
unlike that of the wind in the mountain caves, yet somehow disturbingly
different.

The ceaseless five-pointedness of the surrounding architecture and
of the few distinguishable mural arabesques had a dimly sinister
suggestiveness we could not escape, and gave us a touch of terrible
subconscious certainty concerning the primal entities which had reared
and dwelt in this unhallowed place.

Nevertheless, our scientific and adventurous souls were not wholly
dead, and we mechanically carried out our program of chipping specimens
from all the different rock types represented in the masonry. We wished
a rather full set in order to draw better conclusions regarding the age
of the place.

Nothing in the great outer walls seemed to date from later than the
Jurassic and Comanchean periods, nor was any piece of stone in the
entire place of a greater recency than the Pliocene age. In stark
certainty, we were wandering amidst a death which had reigned at least
five hundred thousand years, and in all probability even longer.

       *       *       *       *       *

As we proceeded through this maze of stone-shadowed twilight we stopped
at all available apertures to study interiors and investigate entrance
possibilities. Some were above our reach, whilst others led only into
ice-choked ruins as unroofed and barren as the rampart on the hill.

One, though spacious and inviting, opened on a seemingly bottomless
abyss without visible means of descent. Now and then we had a chance to
study the petrified wood of a surviving shutter, and were impressed by
the fabulous antiquity implied in the still discernible grain. These
things had come from Mesozoic gymnosperms and conifers--especially
Cretaceous cycads--and from fan palms and early angiosperms of plainly
Tertiary date. Nothing definitely later than the Pliocene could be
discovered.

In the placing of these shutters--whose edges showed the former
presence of queer and long-vanished hinges--usage seemed to be
varied--some being on the outer and some on the inner side of the
deep embrasures. They seemed to have become wedged in place, thus
surviving the rusting of their former and probably metallic fixtures
and fastenings.

After a time we came across a row of windows--in the bulges of a
colossal five-edged cone of undamaged apex--which led into a vast,
well-preserved room with stone flooring; but these were too high in
the room to permit descent without a rope. We had a rope with us,
but did not wish to bother with this twenty-foot drop unless obliged
to--especially in this thin plateau air where great demands were made
upon the heart action.

This enormous room was probably a hall or concourse of some sort, and
our electric torches showed bold, distinct, and potentially startling
sculptures arranged round the walls in broad, horizontal bands
separated by equally broad strips of conventional arabesques. We took
careful note of this spot, planning to enter here unless a more easily
gained interior was encountered.

Finally, though, we did encounter exactly the opening we wished; an
archway about six feet wide and ten feet high, marking the former end
of an aërial bridge which had spanned an alley about five feet above
the present level of glaciation. These archways, of course, were flush
with upper-story floors, and in this case one of the floors still
existed.

The building thus accessible was a series of rectangular terraces
on our left facing westward. That across the alley, where the other
archway yawned, was a decrepit cylinder with no windows and with
a curious bulge about ten feet above the aperture. It was totally
dark inside, and the archway seemed to open on a well of illimitable
emptiness.

Heaped débris made the entrance to the vast left-hand building doubly
easy, yet for a moment we hesitated before taking advantage of the
long-wished chance. For though we had penetrated into this tangle of
archaic mystery, it required fresh resolution to carry us actually
inside a complete and surviving building of a fabulous elder world
whose nature was becoming more and more hideously plain to us.

In the end, however, we made the plunge, and scrambled up over the
rubble into the gaping embrasure. The floor beyond was of great slate
slabs, and seemed to form the outlet of a long, high corridor with
sculptured walls.

Observing the many inner archways which led off from it, and realizing
the probable complexity of the nest of apartments within, we decided
that we must begin our system of hare-and-hound trail blazing. Hitherto
our compasses, together with frequent glimpses of the vast mountain
range between the towers in our rear, had been enough to prevent our
losing our way; but from now on, the artificial substitute would be
necessary.

Accordingly we reduced our extra paper to shreds of suitable size,
placed these in a bag to be carried by Danforth, and prepared to use
them as economically as safety would allow. This method would probably
gain us immunity from straying, since there did not appear to be any
strong air currents inside the primordial masonry. If such should
develop, or if our paper supply should give out, we could of course
fall back on the more secure though more tedious and retarding method
of rock chipping.

Just how extensive a territory we had opened up, it was impossible
to guess without a trial. The close and frequent connection of the
different buildings made it likely that we might cross from one to
another on bridges underneath the ice, except where impeded by local
collapses and geologic rifts, for very little glaciation seemed to have
entered the massive constructions.

Almost all the areas of transparent ice had revealed the submerged
windows as tightly shuttered, as if the town had been left in that
uniform state until the glacial sheet came to crystallize the lower
part for all succeeding time. Indeed, one gained a curious impression
that this place had been deliberately closed and deserted in some dim,
bygone æon, rather than overwhelmed by any sudden calamity or even
gradual decay. Had the coming of the ice been foreseen, and had a
nameless population left _en masse_ to seek a less doomed abode?

The precise physiographic conditions attending the formation of the
ice sheet at this point would have to wait for later solution. It had
not, very plainly, been a grinding drive. Perhaps the pressure of
accumulated snows had been responsible, and perhaps some flood from
the river, or from the bursting of some ancient glacial dam in the
great range, had helped to create the special state now observable.
Imagination could conceive almost anything in connection with this
place.

                                  VI.

It would be cumbrous to give a detailed, consecutive account of
our wanderings inside that cavernous, æon-dead honeycomb of primal
masonry--that monstrous lair of elder secrets which now echoed for the
first time, after uncounted epochs, to the tread of human feet.

This is especially true because so much of the horrible drama and
revelation came from a mere study of the omnipresent mural carvings.
Our flash-light photographs of those carvings will do much toward
proving the truth of what we are now disclosing, and it is lamentable
that we had not a larger film supply with us. As it was, we made crude
notebook sketches of certain salient features after all our films were
used up.

The building which we had entered was one of great size and
elaborateness, and gave us an impressive notion of the architecture of
that nameless geologic past. The inner partitions were less massive
than the outer walls, but on the lower levels were excellently
preserved. Labyrinthine complexity, involving curiously irregular
differences in floor levels, characterized the entire arrangement; and
we should certainly have been lost at the very outset but for the trail
of torn paper left behind us.

We decided to explore the more decrepit upper parts first of all, hence
climbed aloft in the maze for a distance of some one hundred feet, to
where the topmost tier of chambers yawned snowily and ruinously open to
the polar sky. Ascent was effected over the steep, transversely ribbed
stone ramps or inclined planes which everywhere served in lieu of
stairs.

The rooms we encountered were of all imaginable shapes and proportions,
ranging from five-pointed stars to triangles and perfect cubes. It
might be safe to say that their general average was about 30 x 30 feet
in floor area, and twenty feet in height, though many larger apartments
existed.

After thoroughly examining the upper regions and the glacial level
we descended, story by story, into the submerged part, where indeed
we soon saw we were in a continuous maze of connected chambers and
passages probably leading over unlimited areas outside this particular
building.

The Cyclopean massiveness and giganticism of everything about us became
curiously oppressive; and there was something vaguely but deeply
unhuman in all the contours, dimensions, proportions, decorations, and
constructional nuances of the blasphemously archaic stonework. We soon
realized, from what the carvings revealed, that this monstrous city was
many million years old.

We cannot yet explain the engineering principles used in the anomalous
balancing and adjustment of the vast rock masses, though the function
of the arch was clearly much relied on. The rooms we visited were
wholly bare of all portable contents, a circumstance which sustained
our belief in the city's deliberate desertion. The prime decorative
feature was the almost universal system of mural sculpture, which
tended to run in continuous horizontal bands three feet wide and
arranged from floor to ceiling in alternation with bands of equal width
given over to geometrical arabesques.

There were exceptions to this rule of arrangement, but its
preponderance was overwhelming. Often, however, a series of smooth
cartouches containing oddly patterned groups of dots would be sunk
along one of the arabesque bands.

       *       *       *       *       *

The technique, we soon saw, was mature, accomplished, and æsthetically
evolved to the highest degree of civilized mastery, though utterly
alien in every detail to any known art tradition of the human race.
In delicacy of execution no sculpture I have ever seen could approach
it. The minutest details of elaborate vegetation, or of animal life,
were rendered with astonishing vividness despite the bold scale of the
carvings; whilst the conventional designs were marvels of skillful
intricacy.

The arabesques displayed a profound use of mathematical principles, and
were made up of obscurely symmetrical curves and angles based on the
quantity of five.

The pictorial bands followed a highly formalized tradition, and
involved a peculiar treatment of perspective, but had an artistic force
that moved us profoundly notwithstanding the intervening gulf of vast
geologic periods.

Their method of design hinged on a singular juxtaposition of the cross
section with the two-dimensional silhouette, and embodied an analytical
psychology beyond that of any known race of antiquity. It is useless to
try to compare this art with any represented in our museums. Those who
see our photographs will probably find its closest analogue in certain
grotesque conceptions of the most daring futurists.

The arabesque tracery consisted altogether of depressed lines, whose
depth on unweathered walls varied from one to two inches. When
cartouches with dot groups appeared--evidently as inscriptions in some
unknown and primordial language and alphabet--the depression of the
smooth surface was perhaps an inch and a half, and of the dots perhaps
a half inch more. The pictorial bands were in countersunk low relief,
their background being depressed about two inches from the original
wall surface.

In some specimens marks of a former coloration could be detected,
though for the most part the untold æons had disintegrated and banished
any pigments which may have been applied. The more one studied the
marvelous technique the more one admired the things. Beneath their
strict conventionalization one could grasp the minute and accurate
observation and graphic skill of the artists; and indeed, the very
conventions themselves served to symbolize and accentuate the real
essence or vital differentiation of every object delineated.

We felt, too, that besides these recognizable excellences there
were others lurking beyond the reach of our perceptions. Certain
touches here and there gave vague hints of latent symbols and stimuli
which another mental and emotional background, and a fuller or
different sensory equipment, might have made of profound and poignant
significance to us.

The subject matter of the sculptures obviously came from the life of
the vanished epoch of their creation, and contained a large proportion
of evident history. It is this abnormal historic-mindedness of the
primal race--a chance circumstance operating, through coincidence,
miraculously in our favor--which made the carvings so awesomely
informative to us, and which caused us to place their photography and
transcription above all other considerations.

In certain rooms the dominant arrangement was varied by the presence of
maps, astronomical charts, and other scientific designs on an enlarged
scale--these things giving a naïve and terrible corroboration to what
we gathered from the pictorial friezes and dados.

In hinting at what the whole revealed, I can only hope that my account
will not arouse a curiosity greater than sane caution on the part of
those who believe me at all. It would be tragic if any were to be
allured to that realm of death and horror by the very warning meant to
discourage them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Interrupting these sculptured walls were high windows and massive
twelve-foot doorways; both now and then retaining the petrified wooden
planks--elaborately carved and polished--of the actual shutters and
doors. All metal fixtures had long ago vanished, but some of the doors
remained in place and had to be forced aside as we progressed from room
to room.

Window frames with odd transparent panes--mostly elliptical--survived
here and there, though in no considerable quantity. There were also
frequent niches of great magnitude, generally empty, but once in a
while containing some bizarre object carved from green soapstone which
was either broken or perhaps held too inferior to warrant removal.

Other apertures were undoubtedly connected with bygone mechanical
facilities--heating, lighting, and the like--of a sort suggested in
many of the carvings. Ceilings tended to be plain, but had sometimes
been inlaid with green soapstone or other tiles, mostly fallen now.
Floors were also paved with such tiles, though plain stonework
predominated.

As I have said, all furniture and other movables were absent; but the
sculptures gave a clear idea of the strange devices which had once
filled these tomblike, echoing rooms. Above the glacial sheet the
floors were generally thick with detritus, litter, and débris, but
farther down this condition decreased.

In some of the lower chambers and corridors there was little more than
gritty dust or ancient incrustations, while occasional areas had an
uncanny air of newly swept immaculateness. Of course, where rifts or
collapses had occurred, the lower levels were as littered as the
upper ones.

A central court--as we had seen in other structures, from the
air--saved the inner regions from total darkness; so that we seldom had
to use our electric torches in the upper rooms except when studying
sculptured details. Below the ice cap, however, the twilight deepened;
and in many parts of the tangled ground level there was an approach to
absolute blackness.

To form even a rudimentary idea of our thoughts and feelings as we
penetrated this æon-silent maze of unhuman masonry one must correlate
a hopelessly bewildering chaos of fugitive moods, memories, and
impressions. The sheer appalling antiquity and lethal desolation of the
place were enough to overwhelm almost any sensitive person, but added
to these elements were the recent unexplained horror at the camp, and
the revelations all too soon effected by the terrible mural sculptures
around us.

The moment we came upon a perfect section of carving, where no
ambiguity of interpretation could exist, it took only a brief study
to give us the hideous truth--a truth which it would be naïve to claim
Danforth and I had not independently suspected before, though we had
carefully refrained from even hinting it to each other. There could
now be no further merciful doubt about the nature of the beings which
had built and inhabited this monstrous dead city millions of years
ago, when man's ancestors were primitive archaic mammals, and vast
Dinosauria roamed the tropical steppes of Europe and Asia.

We had previously clung to a desperate alternative and insisted--each
to himself--that the omnipresence of the five-pointed motif meant only
some cultural or religious exaltation of the archæan natural object
which had so patently embodied the quality of five-pointedness; as the
decorative motifs of Minoan Crete exalted the sacred bull, those of
Egypt the scarabæus, those of Rome the wolf and the eagle, and those of
various savage tribes some chosen totem animal.

But this lone refuge was now stripped from us, and we were forced to
face definitely the reason-shaking realization which the reader of
these pages has doubtless long ago anticipated. I can scarcely bear to
write it down in black and white even now, but perhaps that will not be
necessary.

       *       *       *       *       *

The things once rearing and dwelling in this frightful masonry in the
age of Dinosauria were not indeed Dinosauria, but far worse. Mere
Dinosauria were new and almost brainless objects--but the builders of
the city were wise and old, and had left certain traces in rocks even
then laid down well nigh a thousand million years--rocks laid down
before the true life of earth had advanced beyond plastic groups of
cells--rocks laid down before the true life of earth had existed at all.

They were the makers and enslavers of that life, and above all doubt
the originals of the fiendish elder myths which things like the
Pnakotic Manuscripts and the _Necronomicon_ affrightedly hint about.
They were the great "Old Ones" that had filtered down from the stars
when earth was young--the beings whose substance an alien evolution had
shaped, and whose powers were such as this planet had never bred. And
to think that only the day before Danforth and I had actually looked
upon fragments of their millennially fossilized substance--and that
poor Lake and his party had seen their complete outlines----

It is, of course, impossible for me to relate in proper order the
stages by which we picked up what we know of that monstrous chapter of
prehuman life. After the first shock of the certain revelation, we had
to pause a while to recuperate, and it was fully three o'clock before
we got started on our actual tour of systematic research.

The sculptures in the building we entered were of relatively late
date--perhaps two million years ago--as checked up by geological,
biological, and astronomical features--and embodied an art which would
be called decadent in comparison with that of specimens we found in
older buildings, after crossing bridges under the glacial sheet.

One edifice hewn from the solid rock seemed to go back forty or
possibly even fifty million years--to the lower Eocene or upper
Cretaceous--and contained bas-reliefs of an artistry surpassing
anything else, with one tremendous exception, that we encountered. That
was, we have since agreed, the oldest domestic structure we traversed.

Were it not for the support of those flashlights soon to be made
public, I would refrain from telling what I found and inferred, lest I
be confined as a madman. Of course, the infinitely early parts of the
patchwork tale--representing the preterrestrial life of the star-headed
beings on other planets, in other galaxies, and in other universes--can
readily be interpreted as the fantastic mythology of those beings
themselves; yet such parts sometimes involved designs and diagrams so
uncannily close to the latest findings of mathematics and astrophysics
that I scarcely know what to think. Let others judge when they see the
photographs I shall publish.

Naturally, no one set of carvings which we encountered told more than a
fraction of any connected story, nor did we even begin to come upon the
various stages of that story in their proper order. Some of the vast
rooms were independent units so far as their designs were concerned,
whilst in other cases a continuous chronicle would be carried through a
series of rooms and corridors.

The best of the maps and diagrams were on the walls of a frightful
abyss below even the ancient ground level--a cavern perhaps two hundred
feet square and sixty feet high, which had almost undoubtedly been an
educational center of some sort.

There were many provoking repetitions of the same material in different
rooms and buildings, since certain chapters of experience, and certain
summaries or phases of racial history, had evidently been favorites
with different decorators or dwellers. Sometimes, though, variant
versions of the same theme proved useful in settling debatable points
and filling up gaps.

I still wonder that we deduced so much in the short time at our
disposal. Of course, we even now have only the barest outline--and
much of that was obtained later on from a study of the photographs and
sketches we made.

It may be the effect of this later study--the revived memories and
vague impressions acting in conjunction with his general sensitiveness
and with that final supposed horror-glimpse whose essence he will not
reveal even to me--which has been the immediate source of Danforth's
present breakdown.

But it had to be; for we could not issue our warning intelligently
without the fullest possible information, and the issuance of that
warning is a prime necessity. Certain lingering influences in that
unknown antarctic world of disordered time and alien natural law make
it imperative that further exploration be discouraged.

                                 VII.

The full story, so far as deciphered, will eventually appear in an
official bulletin of Miskatonic University. Here I shall sketch only
the salient highlights in a formless, rambling way. Myth or otherwise,
the sculptures told of the coming of those star-headed things to the
nascent, lifeless earth out of cosmic space--their coming, and the
coming of many other alien entities such as at certain times embark
upon spatial pioneering.

They seemed able to traverse the interstellar ether on their vast
membranous wings--thus oddly confirming some curious hill folklore long
ago told me by an antiquarian colleague. They had lived under the sea a
good deal, building fantastic cities and fighting terrific battles with
nameless adversaries by means of intricate devices employing unknown
principles of energy.

Evidently their scientific and mechanical knowledge far surpassed
man's to-day, though they made use of its more widespread and elaborate
forms only when obliged to.

Some of the sculptures suggested that they had passed through a stage
of mechanized life on other planets, but had receded upon finding
its effects emotionally unsatisfying. Their preternatural toughness
of organization and simplicity of natural wants made them peculiarly
able to live on a high plane without the more specialized fruits
of artificial manufacture, and even without garments, except for
occasional protection against the elements.

It was under the sea, at first for food and later for other purposes,
that they first created earth life--using available substances
according to long-known methods.

The more elaborate experiments came after the annihilation of various
cosmic enemies. They had done the same thing on other planets, having
manufactured not only necessary foods, but certain multicellular
protoplasmic masses capable of molding their tissues into all sorts of
temporary organs under hypnotic influence and thereby forming ideal
slaves to perform the heavy work of the community.

These viscous masses were without doubt what Abdul Alhazred whispered
about as the "Shoggoths" in his frightful _Necronomicon_, though even
that mad Arab had not hinted that any existed on earth except in the
dreams of those who had chewed a certain alkaloidal herb.

When the star-headed Old Ones on this planet had synthesized their
simple food forms and bred a good supply of Shoggoths, they allowed
other cell groups to develop into other forms of animal and vegetable
life for sundry purposes, extirpating any whose presence became
troublesome.

With the aid of the Shoggoths, whose expansions could be made to lift
prodigious weights, the small, low cities under the sea grew to vast
and imposing labyrinths of stone not unlike those which later rose on
land. Indeed, the highly adaptable Old Ones had lived much on land in
other parts of the universe, and probably retained many traditions of
land construction.

As we studied the architecture of all these sculptured Palæogæan
cities, including that whose æon-dead corridors we were even then
traversing, we were impressed by a curious coincidence which we have
not yet tried to explain, even to ourselves. The tops of the buildings,
which in the actual city around us had, of course, been weathered into
shapeless ruins ages ago, were clearly displayed in the bas-reliefs,
and showed vast clusters of needlelike spires, delicate finials
on certain cone and pyramid apexes, and tiers of thin, horizontal
scalloped disks capping cylindrical shafts.

This was exactly what we had seen in that monstrous and portentous
mirage, cast by a dead city whence such sky-line features had been
absent for thousands and ten of thousands of years, which loomed on our
ignorant eyes across the unfathomed mountains of madness as we first
approached poor Lake's ill-fated camp.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of the life of the Old Ones, both under the sea and after part of them
migrated to land, volumes could be written. Those in shallow water had
continued the fullest use of the eyes at the ends of their five main
head tentacles, and had practiced the arts of sculpture and of writing
in quite the usual way--the writing accomplished with a stylus on
waterproof waxen surfaces.

Those lower down in the ocean depths, though they used a curious
phosphorescent organism to furnish light, pieced out their vision with
obscure special senses operating through the prismatic cilia on their
heads--senses which rendered all the Old Ones partly independent of
light in emergencies. Their forms of sculpture and writing had changed
curiously during the descent, embodying certain apparently chemical
coating processes--probably to secure phosphorescence--which the
bas-reliefs could not make clear to us.

The beings moved in the sea partly by swimming--using the lateral
crinoid arms--and partly by wriggling with the lower tier of tentacles
containing the pseudofeet. Occasionally they accomplished long swoops
with the auxiliary use of two or more sets of their fan-like folding
wings.

On land they locally used the pseudofeet, but now and then flew to
great heights or over long distances with their wings. The many
slender tentacles into which the crinoid arms branched were infinitely
delicate, flexible, strong, and accurate in muscular-nervous
coördination--ensuring the utmost skill and dexterity in all artistic
and other manual operations.

The toughness of the things was almost incredible. Even the terrific
pressure of the deepest sea bottoms appeared powerless to harm them.
Very few seemed to die at all except by violence, and their burial
places were very limited. The facts that they covered their vertically
inhumed dead with five-pointed inscribed mounds set up thoughts in
Danforth and me which made a fresh pause and recuperation necessary
after the sculptures revealed it.

[Illustration: _The toughness of the things was almost incredible. Even
terrific pressures were powerless to harm them!_]

The beings multiplied by means of spores--like vegetable pteridophyta,
as Lake had suspected--but, owing to their prodigious toughness and
longevity, and consequent lack of replacement needs, they did not
encourage the large-scale development of new prothallia except when
they had new regions to colonize.

The young matured swiftly, and received an education evidently beyond
any standard we can imagine. The prevailing intellectual and æsthetic
life was highly evolved, and produced a tenaciously enduring set of
customs and institutions which I shall describe more fully in my coming
monograph. These varied slightly according to sea or land residence,
but had the same foundations and essentials.

Though able, like vegetables, to derive nourishment from inorganic
substances; they vastly preferred organic and especially animal food.
They ate uncooked marine life under the sea, but cooked their viands on
land. They hunted game and raised meat herds--slaughtering with sharp
weapons whose odd marks on certain fossil bones our expedition had
noted.

They resisted all ordinary temperatures marvelously, and in their
natural state could live in water down to freezing. When the great
chill of the Pleistocene drew on, however--nearly a million years
ago--the land dwellers had to resort to special measures, including
artificial heating--until, at last, the deadly cold appears to have
driven them back into the sea.

For their prehistoric flights through cosmic space, legend said, they
had absorbed certain chemicals and become almost independent of eating,
breathing, or heat conditions--but by the time of the great cold
they had lost track of the method. In any case, they could not have
prolonged the artificial state indefinitely without harm.

Being nonpairing and semivegetable in structure, the Old Ones had
no biological basis for the family phase of mammal life, but seemed
to organize large households on the principles of comfortable
space-utility and--as we deduced from the pictured occupations and
diversions of codwellers--congenial mental association.

In furnishing their homes they kept everything in the center of the
huge rooms, leaving all wall spaces free for decorative treatment.
Lighting, in the case of the land inhabitants, was accomplished by a
device probably electro-chemical in nature.

Both on land and under water they used curious tables, chairs and
couches like cylindrical frames--for they rested and slept upright with
folded-down tentacles--and racks for the hinged sets of dotted surfaces
forming their books.

       *       *       *       *       *

Government was evidently complex and probably socialistic, though no
certainties in this regard could be deduced from the sculptures we
saw. There was extensive commerce, both local and between different
cities--certain small, flat counters, five-pointed and inscribed,
serving as money. Probably the smaller of the various greenish
soapstones found by our expedition were pieces of such currency.

Though the culture was mainly urban, some agriculture and much stock
raising existed. Mining and a limited amount of manufacturing were also
practiced. Travel was very frequent, but permanent migration seemed
relatively rare except for the vast colonizing movements by which the
race expanded.

For personal locomotion no external aid was used, since in land, air,
and water movement alike the Old Ones seemed to possess excessively
vast capacities for speed. Loads, however, were drawn by beasts of
burden--Shoggoths under the sea, and a curious variety of primitive
vertebrates in the later years of land existence.

These vertebrates, as well as an infinity of other life forms--animal
and vegetable, marine, terrestrial, and aërial--were the products of
unguided evolution acting on life cells made by the Old Ones, but
escaping beyond their radius of attention. They had been suffered
to develop unchecked because they had not come in conflict with the
dominant beings. Bothersome forms, of course, were mechanically
exterminated.

It interested us to see in some of the very last and most decadent
sculptures a shambling, primitive mammal, used sometimes for food and
sometimes as an amusing buffoon by the land dwellers, whose vaguely
simian and human foreshadowings were unmistakable. In the building of
land cities the huge stone blocks of the high towers were generally
lifted by vast-winged pterodactyls of a species heretofore unknown to
palæontology.

The persistence with which the Old Ones survived various geologic
changes and convulsions of the earth's crust was little short of
miraculous. Though few or none of their first cities seem to have
remained beyond the Archæan Age, there was no interruption in their
civilization or in the transmission of their records.

Their original place of advent to the planet was the Antarctic Ocean,
and it is likely that they came not long after the matter forming the
moon was wrenched from the neighboring South Pacific. According to one
of the sculptured maps, the whole globe was then under water, with
stone cities scattered farther and farther from the antarctic as æons
passed.

Another map shows a vast bulk of dry land around the south pole, where
it is evident that some of the beings made experimental settlements,
though their main centers were transferred to the nearest sea bottom.

Later maps, which display this land mass as cracking and drifting, and
sending certain detached parts northward, uphold in a striking way the
theories of continental drift lately advanced by Taylor, Wegener, and
Joly.

With the upheaval of new land in the South Pacific, tremendous events
began. Some of the marine cities were hopelessly shattered, yet that
was not the worst misfortune. Another race--a land race of beings
shaped like octopi and probably corresponding to the fabulous prehuman
spawn of Cthulhu--soon began filtering down from cosmic infinity and
precipitated a monstrous war which for a time drove the Old Ones
wholly back to the sea--a colossal blow in view of the increasing land
settlements.

Later, peace was made, and the new lands were given to the Cthulhu
spawn whilst the Old Ones held the sea and the older lands. New land
cities were founded--the greatest of them in the antarctic, for this
region of first arrival was sacred.

From then on, as before, the antarctic remained the center of the Old
Ones' civilization, and all the cities built there by the Cthulhu spawn
were blotted out.

Then, suddenly, the lands of the Pacific sank again, taking with them
the frightful stone city of R'lyeh and all the cosmic octopi, so that
the Old Ones were again supreme on the planet, except for one shadowy
fear about which they did not like to speak.

At a rather later age their cities dotted all the land and water areas
of the globe--hence the recommendation in my coming monograph that some
archæologist make systematic borings with Pabodie's type of apparatus
in certain widely separated regions.

       *       *       *       *       *

The steady trend down the ages was from water to land--a movement
encouraged by the rise of new land masses, though the ocean was never
wholly deserted. Another cause of the landward movement was the new
difficulty in breeding and managing the Shoggoths upon which successful
sea life depended.

With the march of time, as the sculptures sadly confessed, the art of
creating new life from inorganic matter had been lost, so that the Old
Ones had to depend on the molding of forms already in existence. On
land the great reptiles proved highly tractable; but the Shoggoths of
the sea, reproducing by fission and acquiring a dangerous degree of
accidental intelligence, presented for a time a formidable problem.

They had always been controlled through the hypnotic suggestion of
the Old Ones, and had modeled their tough plasticity into various
useful temporary limbs and organs; but now their self-modeling powers
were sometimes exercised independently, and in various imitative
forms implanted by past suggestion. They had, it seems, developed a
semistable brain whose separate and occasionally stubborn volition
echoed the will of the Old Ones without always obeying it.

Sculptured images of these Shoggoths filled Danforth and me with
horror and loathing. They were normally shapeless entities composed
of a viscous jelly which looked like an agglutination of bubbles, and
each averaged about fifteen feet in diameter when a sphere. They had,
however, a constantly shifting shape and volume--throwing out temporary
developments or forming apparent organs of sight, hearing, and speech
in imitation of their masters, either spontaneously or according to
suggestion.

They seem to have become peculiarly intractable toward the middle of
the Permian Age, perhaps one hundred and fifty million years ago, when
a veritable war of resubjugation was waged upon them by the marine Old
Ones. Pictures of this war, and of the headless, slime-coated fashion
in which the Shoggoths typically left their slain victims, held a
marvelously fearsome quality despite the intervening abyss of untold
ages.

The Old Ones had used curious weapons of molecular disturbance against
the rebel entities, and in the end had achieved a complete victory.
Thereafter the sculptures showed a period in which Shoggoths were tamed
and broken by armed Old Ones as the wild horses of the American west
were tamed by cowboys.

Though during the rebellion the Shoggoths had shown an ability to
live out of water, this transition was not encouraged--since their
usefulness on land would hardly have been commensurate with the trouble
of their management.

During the Jurassic Age the Old Ones met fresh adversity in the
form of a new invasion from outer space--this time by half-fungous,
half-crustacean creatures--creatures undoubtedly the same as those
figuring in certain whispered hill legends of the north, and remembered
in the Himalayas as the Mi-Go, or Abominable Snow Men.

To fight these beings the Old Ones attempted, for the first time
since their terrene advent, to sally forth again into the planetary
ether; but, despite all traditional preparations, found it no longer
possible to leave the earth's atmosphere. Whatever the old secret of
interstellar travel had been, it was now definitely lost to the race.

In the end the Mi-Go drove the Old Ones out of all the northern lands,
though they were powerless to disturb those in the sea. Little by
little the slow retreat of the elder race to their original antarctic
habitat was beginning.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was curious to note from the pictured battles that both the Cthulhu
spawn and the Mi-Go seem to have been composed of matter more widely
different from that which we know than was the substance of the Old
Ones. They were able to undergo transformations and reintegrations
impossible for their adversaries, and seem therefore to have originally
come from even remoter gulfs of cosmic space.

The Old Ones, but for their abnormal toughness and peculiar vital
properties, were strictly material, and must have had their absolute
origin within the known space-time continuum--whereas the first
sources of the other beings can only be guessed at with bated breath.
All this, of course, assuming that the nonterrestrial linkages and
the anomalies ascribed to the invading foes are not pure mythology.
Conceivably, the Old Ones might have invented a cosmic framework
to account for their occasional defeats, since historical interest
and pride obviously formed their chief psychological element. It is
significant that their annals failed to mention many advanced and
potent races of beings whose mighty cultures and towering ethics figure
persistently in certain obscure legends.

The changing state of the world through long geologic ages appeared
with startling vividness in many of the sculptured maps and scenes. In
certain cases existing science will require revision, while in other
cases its bold deductions are magnificently confirmed.

As I have said, the hypothesis of Taylor, Wegener, and Joly that all
the continents are fragments of an original antarctic land mass which
cracked from centrifugal force and drifted apart over a technically
viscous lower surface--an hypothesis suggested by such things as the
complimentary outlines of Africa and South America, and the way the
great mountain chains are rolled and shoved up--receives striking
support from this uncanny source.

Maps evidently showing the Carboniferous of a hundred million or
more years ago displayed significant rifts and chasms destined later
to separate Africa from the once continuous realms of Europe (then
the Valusia of primal legend), Asia, the Americas, and the antarctic
continent.

Other charts--and most significantly one in connection with the
founding fifty million years ago of the vast dead city around
us--showed all the present continents well differentiated. And in
the latest discoverable specimen--dating perhaps from the Pliocene
Age--the approximate world of to-day appeared quite clearly despite the
linkage of Alaska with Siberia, of North America with Europe through
Greenland, and of South America with the antarctic continent through
Graham Land.

In the Carboniferous map the whole globe--ocean floor and rifted land
mass alike--bore symbols of the Old Ones' vast stone cities, but in the
later charts the gradual recession toward the antarctic became very
plain.

The final Pliocene specimen showed no land cities except on the
antarctic continent and the tip of South America, nor any ocean
cities north of the fiftieth parallel of South Latitude. Knowledge
and interest in the northern world, save for a study of coast lines
probably made during long exploration flights on those fan-like
membranous wings, had evidently declined to zero among the Old Ones.

Destruction of cities through the up-thrust of mountains, the
centrifugal rending of continents, the seismic convulsions of land or
sea bottom, and other natural causes was a matter of common record; and
it was curious to observe how fewer and fewer replacements were made as
the ages wore on.

The vast dead megalopolis that yawned around us seemed to be the last
general center of the race--built early in the Cretaceous Age after a
titanic earth buckling had obliterated a still vaster predecessor not
far distant.

It appeared that this general region was the most sacred spot of
all, where reputedly the first Old Ones had settled on a primal sea
bottom. In the new city--many of whose features we could recognize
in the sculptures, but which stretched fully a hundred miles along
the mountain range in each direction beyond the farthest limits of
our aërial survey--there were reputed to be preserved certain sacred
stones forming part of the first sea-bottom city, which were thrust up
to light after long epochs in the course of the general crumpling of
strata.

                                 VIII.

Naturally, Danforth and I studied with special interest and a
peculiarly personal sense of awe everything pertaining to the immediate
district in which we were. Of this local material there was naturally a
vast abundance.

On the tangled ground level of the city we were lucky enough to find
a house of very late date whose walls, though somewhat damaged by a
neighboring rift, contained sculptures of decadent workmanship carrying
the story of the region, much beyond the Pliocene map, whence we
derived our last general glimpse of the prehuman world. This was the
last place we examined in detail, since what we found there set upon us
a fresh, immediate objective.

Certainly, we were in one of the strangest, weirdest, and most terrible
of all the corners of earth's globe. Of all existing lands it was
infinitely the most ancient. The conviction grew upon us that this
hideous upland must indeed be the fabled nightmare plateau of Leng
which even the mad author of the _Necronomicon_ was reluctant to
discuss.

The great mountain chain was tremendously long--starting as a low range
at Luitpold Land on the coast of Weddell Sea and virtually crossing the
entire continent. The really high part stretched in a mighty arc from
about Latitude 82°, E. Longitude 60° to Latitude 70°, East Longitude
115°, with its concave side toward our camp and its seaward end in the
region of that long, ice-locked coast whose hills were glimpsed by
Wilkes and Mawson at the antarctic circle.

Yet even more monstrous exaggerations of nature seemed disturbingly
close at hand. I have said that these peaks are higher than the
Himalayas, but the sculptures forbid me to say that they are earth's
highest. That grim honor is beyond doubt reserved for something
which half the sculptures hesitated to record at all, whilst others
approached it with obvious repugnance and trepidation.

It seems that there was one part of the ancient land--the first part
that ever rose from the waters after the earth had flung off the moon
and the Old Ones had seeped down from the stars--which had come to be
shunned as vaguely and namelessly evil. Cities built there had crumbled
before their time, and had been found suddenly deserted.

Then when the first great earth buckling had convulsed the region in
the Comanchean Age, a frightful line of peaks had shot suddenly up
amidst the most appalling din and chaos--and earth had received her
loftiest and most terrible mountains.

If the scale of the carvings was correct, these abhorred things must
have been much over forty thousand feet high--radically vaster than
even the shocking mountains of madness we had crossed. They extended,
it appeared, from about Latitude 77°, E. Longitude 70° to Latitude 70°,
E. Longitude 100°--less than three hundred miles away from the dead
city, so that we would have spied their dreaded summits in the dim
western distance had it not been for that vague, opalescent haze. Their
northern end must likewise be visible from the long antarctic circle
coast line at Queen Mary Land.

Some of the Old Ones, in the decadent days, had made strange prayers
to those mountains--but none ever went near them or dared to guess
what lay beyond. No human eye had ever seen them, and as I studied the
emotions conveyed in the carvings I prayed that none ever might.

There are protecting hills along the coast beyond them--Queen Mary and
Kaiser Wilhelm Lands--and I thank Heaven no one has been able to land
and climb those hills. I am not as sceptical about old tales and fears
as I used to be, and I do not laugh now at the prehuman sculptor's
notion that lightning paused meaningfully now and then at each of the
brooding crests, and that an unexplained glow shone from one of those
terrible pinnacles all through the long polar night. There may be a
very real and very monstrous meaning in the old Pnakotic whispers about
Kadath in the Cold Waste.

But the terrain close at hand was hardly less strange, even if less
namelessly accursed. Soon after the founding of the city the great
mountain range became the seat of the principal temples, and many
carvings showed what grotesque and fantastic towers had pierced the sky
where now we saw only the curiously clinging cubes and ramparts.

In the course of ages the caves had appeared, and had been shaped into
adjuncts of the temples. With the advance of still later epochs all
the limestone veins of the region were hollowed out by ground waters,
so that the mountains, the foothills, and the plains below them were
a veritable network of connected caverns and galleries. Many graphic
sculptures told of explorations deep underground, and of the final
discovery of the Stygian sunless sea that lurked at earth's bowels.

       *       *       *       *       *

This vast nighted gulf had undoubtedly been worn by the great river
which flowed down from the nameless and horrible westward mountains,
and which had formerly turned at the base of the Old Ones' range and
flowed beside that chain into the Indian Ocean between Budd and Totten
Lands on Wilkes's coast line. Little by little it had eaten away the
limestone hill base at its turning, till at last its sapping currents
reached the caverns of the ground waters and joined with them in
digging a deeper abyss.

Finally its whole bulk emptied into the hollow hills and left the old
bed toward the ocean dry. Much of the later city as we now found it
had been built over that former bed. The Old Ones, understanding what
had happened, and exercising their always keen artistic sense, had
carved into ornate pylons those headlands of the foothills where the
great stream began its descent into eternal darkness.

This river, once crossed by scores of noble stone bridges, was plainly
the one whose extinct course we had seen in our aëroplane survey.
Its position in different carvings of the city helped us to orient
ourselves to the scene as it had been at various stages of the region's
age-long, æon-dead history, so that we were able to sketch a hasty but
careful map of the salient features--squares, important buildings, and
the like--for guidance in further explorations.

We could soon reconstruct in fancy the whole stupendous thing as it was
a million or ten million or fifty million years ago, for the sculptures
told us exactly what the buildings and mountains and squares and
suburbs and landscape setting and luxuriant Tertiary vegetation had
looked like.

It must have had a marvelous and mystic beauty, and as I thought of
it I almost forgot the clammy sense of sinister oppression with which
the city's inhuman age and massiveness and deadness and remoteness and
glacial twilight had choked and weighed on my spirit.

Yet, according to certain carvings the denizens of that city had
themselves known the clutch of oppressive terror; for there was a
somber and recurrent type of scene in which the Old Ones were shown in
the act of recoiling affrightedly from some object--never allowed to
appear in the design--found in the great river and indicated as having
been washed down through waving, vine-draped cycad forests from those
horrible westward mountains.

It was only in the one late-built house with the decadent carvings that
we obtained any foreshadowing of the final calamity leading to the
city's desertion. Undoubtedly there must have been many sculptures of
the same age elsewhere, even allowing for the slackened energies and
aspirations of a stressful and uncertain period; indeed, very certain
evidence of the existence of others came to us shortly afterward. But
this was the first and only set we directly encountered.

We meant to look farther later on; but as I have said, immediate
conditions dictated another present objective. There would, though,
have been a limit--for after all hope of a long future occupancy of the
place had perished among the Old Ones, there could not but have been a
complete cessation of mural decoration. The ultimate blow, of course,
was the coming of the great cold which once held most of the earth in
thrall, and which has never departed from the ill-fated poles--the
great cold that, at the world's other extremity, put an end to the
fabled lands of Lomar and Hyperborea.

Just when this tendency began in the antarctic it would be hard to say
in terms of exact years. Nowadays we set the beginning of the general
glacial periods at a distance of about five hundred thousand years from
the present, but at the poles the terrible scourge must have commenced
much earlier. All quantitative estimates are partly guesswork, but it
is quite likely that the decadent sculptures were made considerably
less than a million years ago, and that the actual desertion of
the city was complete long before the conventional opening of the
Pleistocene--five hundred thousand years ago--as reckoned in terms of
the earth's whole surface.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the decadent sculptures there were signs of thinner vegetation
everywhere, and of a decreased country life on the part of the Old
Ones. Heating devices were shown in the houses, and winter travelers
were represented as muffled in protective fabrics. Then we saw a
series of cartouches--the continuous band arrangement being frequently
interrupted in these late carvings--depicting a constantly growing
migration to the nearest refuges of greater warmth--some fleeing to
cities under the sea off the far-away coast, and some clambering down
through networks of limestone caverns in the hollow hills to the
neighboring black abyss of subterrane waters.

In the end, it seems to have been the neighboring abyss which received
the greatest colonization. This was partly due, no doubt, to the
traditional sacredness of this special region, but may have been more
conclusively determined by the opportunities it gave for continuing
the use of the great temples on the honeycombed mountains, and for
retaining the vast land city as a place of summer residence and base of
communication with various mines.

The linkage of old and new abodes was made more effective by means
of several gradings and improvements along the connecting routes,
including the chiseling of numerous direct tunnels from the ancient
metropolis to the black abyss--sharply down-pointing tunnels whose
mouths we carefully drew, according to our most thoughtful estimates,
on the guide map we were compiling.

It was obvious that at least two of these tunnels lay within a
reasonable exploring distance of where we were--both being on the
mountainward edge of the city, one less than a quarter of a mile toward
the ancient rivercourse, and the other perhaps twice that distance in
the opposite direction.

The abyss, it seems, had shelving shores of dry land at certain places,
but the Old Ones built their new city under water--no doubt because of
its greater certainty of uniform warmth. The depth of the hidden sea
appears to have been very great, so that the earth's internal heat
could insure its habitability for an indefinite period.

The beings seem to have had no trouble in adapting themselves to
part-time--and eventually, of course, whole-time--residence under
water, since they had never allowed their gill systems to atrophy.

There were many sculptures which showed how they had always frequently
visited their submarine kinsfolk elsewhere, and how they had habitually
bathed on the deep bottom of their great river. The darkness of inner
earth could likewise have been no deterrent to a race accustomed to
long antarctic nights.

Decadent though their style undoubtedly was, these latest carvings
had a truly epic quality where they told of the building of
the new city in the cavern sea. The Old Ones had gone about it
scientifically--quarrying insoluble rocks from the heart of the
honeycombed mountains, and employing expert workers from the nearest
submarine city to perform the construction according to the best
methods.

These workers brought with them all that was necessary to establish
the new venture--Shoggoth tissue from which to breed stone lifters and
subsequent beasts of burden for the cavern city, and other protoplasmic
matter to mold into phosphorescent organisms for lighting purposes.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last a mighty metropolis rose on the bottom of that Stygian sea,
its architecture much like that of the city above, and its workmanship
displaying relatively little decadence because of the precise
mathematical element inherent in building operations.

The newly bred Shoggoths grew to enormous size and singular
intelligence, and were represented as taking and executing orders with
marvelous quickness. They seemed to converse with the Old Ones by
mimicking their voices--a sort of musical piping over a wide range,
if poor Lake's dissection had indicated aright--and to work more from
spoken commands than from hypnotic suggestions as in earlier times.

They were, however, kept in admirable control. The phosphorescent
organisms supplied light with vast effectiveness, and doubtless atoned
for the loss of the familiar polar auroras of the outer-world night.

Art and decoration were pursued, though, of course, with a certain
decadence. The Old Ones seemed to realize this falling off themselves,
and in many cases anticipated the policy of Constantine the Great by
transplanting especially fine blocks of ancient carving from their
land city, just as the emperor, in a similar age of decline, stripped
Greece and Asia of their finest art to give his new Byzantine capital
greater splendors than its own people could create. That the transfer
of sculptured blocks had not been more extensive, was doubtless owing
to the fact that the land city was not at first wholly abandoned.

By the time total abandonment did occur--and it surely must have
occurred before the polar Pleistocene was far advanced--the Old Ones
had perhaps become satisfied with their decadent art--or had ceased
to recognize the superior merit of the older carvings. At any rate,
the æon-silent ruins around us had certainly undergone no wholesale
sculptural denudation, though all the best separate statues, like other
movables, had been taken away.

The decadent cartouches and dados telling this story were, as I have
said, the latest we could find in our limited search. They left us with
a picture of the Old Ones shuttling back and forth betwixt the land
city in summer and the sea-cavern city in winter, and sometimes trading
with the sea-bottom cities off the antarctic coast.

By this time the ultimate doom of the land city must have been
recognized, for the sculptures showed many signs of the cold's malign
encroachments. Vegetation was declining, and the terrible snows of the
winter no longer melted completely even in midsummer.

The saurian live stock were nearly all dead, and the mammals were
standing it none too well. To keep on with the work of the upper
world it had become necessary to adapt some of the amorphous and
curiously cold-resistant Shoggoths to land life--a thing the Old Ones
had formerly been reluctant to do. The great river was now lifeless,
and the upper sea had lost most of its denizens except the seals and
whales. All the birds had flown away, save only the great, grotesque
penguins.

What had happened afterward we could only guess. How long had the new
sea-cavern city survived? Was it still down there, a stony corpse in
eternal blackness? Had the subterranean waters frozen at last? To what
fate had the ocean-bottom cities of the outer world been delivered?
Had any of the Old Ones shifted north ahead of the creeping ice cap?
Existing geology shows no trace of their presence. Had the frightful
Mi-Go been still a menace in the outer land world of the north? Could
one be sure of what might or might not linger, even to this day, in the
lightless and unplumbed abysses of earth's deepest water?

Those things had seemingly been able to withstand any amount of
pressure--and men of the sea have fished up curious objects at
times. And has the killer-whale theory really explained the savage
and mysterious scars on antarctic seals noticed a generation ago by
Borchgrevingk?

The specimens found by poor Lake did not enter into these guesses, for
their geologic setting proved them to have lived at what must have been
a very early date in the land city's history. They were, according to
their location, certainly not less than thirty million years old, and
we reflected that in their day the sea-cavern city, and indeed the
cavern itself, had had no existence.

They would have remembered an older scene, with lush Tertiary
vegetation everywhere, a younger land city of flourishing arts around
them, and a great river sweeping northward along the base of the mighty
mountains toward a far-away tropic ocean.

And yet we could not help thinking about these specimens--especially
about the eight perfect ones that were missing from Lake's hideously
ravaged camp. There was something abnormal about that whole
business--the strange things we had tried so hard to lay to somebody's
madness--those frightful graves--the amount _and nature_ of the
missing material--Gedney--the unearthly toughness of those archaic
monstrosities, and the queer vital freaks the sculptures now showed
the race to have----Danforth and I had seen a good deal in the last
few hours, and were prepared to believe and keep silent about many
appalling and incredible secrets of primal nature.

                                  IX.

I have said that our study of the decadent sculptures brought about a
change in our immediate objective. This, of course, had to do with the
chiseled avenues to the black inner world, of whose existence we had
not known before, but which we were now eager to find and traverse.

From the evident scale of the carvings we deduced that a steeply
descending walk of about a mile through either of the neighboring
tunnels would bring us to the brink of the dizzy, sunless cliffs about
the great abyss, down whose side paths, improved by the Old Ones, led
to the rocky shore of the hidden and nighted ocean. To behold this
fabulous gulf in stark reality was a lure which seemed impossible of
resistance once we knew of the thing--yet we realized we must begin the
quest at once if we expected to include it in our present trip.

In was now eight p.m., and we had not enough battery replacements to
let our torches burn on forever. We had done so much of our studying
and copying below the glacial level that our battery supply had had at
least five hours of nearly continuous use, and despite the special dry
cell formula would obviously be good for only about four more--though
by keeping one torch unused, except for especially interesting or
difficult places, we might manage to eke out a safe margin beyond that.

It would not do to be without a light in these Cyclopean catacombs,
hence in order to make the abyss trip we must give up all further
mural deciphering. Of course, we intended to revisit the place for days
and perhaps weeks of intensive study and photography--curiosity having
long ago gotten the better of horror--but just now we must hasten.

Our supply of trail-blazing paper was far from unlimited, and we were
reluctant to sacrifice spare notebooks or sketching paper to augment
it, but we did let one large notebook go. If worst came to worst, we
could resort to rock chipping--and, of course, it would be possible,
even in case of really lost direction, to work up to full daylight by
one channel or another if granted sufficient time for plentiful trial
and error. So, at last, we set off eagerly in the indicated direction
of the nearest tunnel.

According to the carvings from which we had made our map, the desired
tunnel mouth could not be much more than a quarter of a mile from where
we stood; the intervening space showing solid-looking buildings quite
likely to be penetrable still at a subglacial level. The opening itself
would be in the basement--on the angle nearest the foothills--of a
vast five-pointed structure of evidently public and perhaps ceremonial
nature, which we tried to identify from our aërial survey of the ruins.

No such structure came to our minds as we recalled our flight, hence we
concluded that its upper parts had been greatly damaged, or that it had
been totally shattered in an ice rift we had noticed. In the latter
case the tunnel would probably turn out to be choked, so that we would
have to try the next nearest one--the one less than a mile to the north.

The intervening river course prevented our trying any of the more
southern tunnels on this trip; and indeed, if both of the neighboring
ones were choked it was doubtful whether our batteries would warrant
an attempt on the next northerly one--about a mile beyond our second
choice.

       *       *       *       *       *

As we threaded our dim way through the labyrinth with the aid of map
and compass--traversing rooms and corridors in every stage of ruin or
preservation, clambering up ramps, crossing upper floors and bridges
and clambering down again, encountering choked doorways and piles of
débris, hastening now and then along finely preserved and uncannily
immaculate stretches, taking false leads and retracing our way (in such
cases removing the blind paper trail we had left), and once in a while
striking the bottom of an open shaft through which daylight poured or
trickled down--we were repeatedly tantalized by the sculptured walls
along our route.

We had wormed our way very close to the computed site of the tunnel's
mouth--having crossed a second-story bridge to what seemed plainly the
tip of a pointed wall, and descended to a ruinous corridor especially
rich in decadently elaborate and apparently ritualistic sculptures of
late workmanship--when, about eight thirty p.m., Danforth's keen young
nostrils gave us the first hint of something unusual.

If we had had a dog with us, I suppost we would have been warned
before. At first we could not precisely say what was wrong with the
formerly crystal-pure air, but after a few seconds our memories reached
only too definitely. Let me try to state the thing without flinching.
There was an odor--and that odor was vaguely, subtly, and unmistakably
akin to what had nauseated us upon opening the insane grave of the
horror poor Lake had dissected.

Of course, the revelation was not as clearly cut at the time as it
sounds now. There were several conceivable explanations, and we did a
good deal of indecisive whispering. Most important of all, we did not
retreat without further investigation; for having come this far, we
were loath to be balked by anything short of certain disaster.

Anyway, what we must have suspected was altogether too wild to believe.
Such things did not happen in any normal world. It was probably sheer
irrational instinct which made us dim our single torch--tempted no
longer by the decadent and sinister sculptures that leered menacingly
from the oppressive walls--and which softened our progress to a
cautious tiptoeing and crawling over the increasingly littered floor
and heaps of débris.

Danforth's eyes as well as nose proved better than mine, for it was
likewise he who first noticed the queer aspect of the débris after we
had passed many half-choked arches leading to chambers and corridors
on the ground level. It did not look quite as it ought after countless
thousands of years of desertion, and when we cautiously turned on more
light we saw that a kind of swath seemed to have been lately tracked
through it. The irregular nature of the latter precluded any definite
marks, but in the smoother places there were suggestions of the
dragging of heavy objects. Once we thought there was a hint of parallel
tracks, as if of runners. This was what made us pause again.

It was during that pause that we caught--simultaneously this time--the
other odor ahead. Paradoxically, it was both a less frightful and a
more frightful odor--less frightful intrinsically, but infinitely
appalling in this place under the known circumstances--unless, of
course, Gedney----For the odor was the plain and familiar one of common
petrol--every-day gasoline.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our motivation after that is something I will leave to psychologists.
We knew now that some terrible extension of the camp horrors must
have crawled into this nighted burial place of the æons, hence could
not doubt any longer the existence of nameless conditions--present
or at least recent--just ahead. Yet in the end we did let sheer
burning curiosity--or anxiety--or autohypnotism--or vague thoughts of
responsibility toward Gedney--of what not--drive us on.

Danforth whispered again of the print he thought he had seen at
the alley turning in the ruins above; and of the faint musical
piping--potentially of tremendous significance in the light of Lake's
dissection report, despite its close resemblance to the cave-mouth
echoes of the windy peaks--which he thought he had shortly afterward
half heard from unknown depths below.

I, in my turn, whispered of how the camp was left--of what had
disappeared, and of how the madness of a lone survivor might have
conceived the inconceivable--a wild trip across the monstrous mountains
and a descent into the unknown, primal masonry----

But we could not convince each other, or even ourselves, of anything
definite. We had turned off all light as we stood still, and vaguely
noticed that a trace of deeply filtered upper daylight kept the
blackness from being absolute.

Having automatically begun to move ahead, we guided ourselves by
occasional flashes from our torch. The disturbed débris formed an
impression we could not shake off, and the smell of gasoline grew
stronger. More and more ruin met our eyes and hampered our feet, until
very soon we saw that the forward way was about to cease. We had been
all too correct in our pessimistic guess about that rift glimpsed from
the air. Our tunnel quest was a blind one, and we were not even going
to be able to reach the basement out of which the abyssward aperture
opened.

The torch, flashing over the grotesquely carved walls of the blocked
corridor in which we stood, showed several doorways in various
states of obstruction; and from one of them the gasoline odor--quite
submerging that other hint of odor--came with especial distinctness. As
we looked more steadily, we saw that beyond a doubt there had been a
slight and recent clearing away of débris from that particular opening.
Whatever the lurking horror might be, we believed the direct avenue
toward it was now plainly manifest. I do not think any one will wonder
that we waited an appreciable time before making any further motion.

And yet, when we did venture inside that black arch, our first
impression was one of anticlimax. For amidst the littered expanse
of that sculptured crypt--a perfect cube with sides of about twenty
feet--there remained no recent object of instantly discernible size; so
that we looked instinctively, though in vain, for a farther doorway.

In another moment, however, Danforth's sharp vision had discovered a
place where the floor débris had been disturbed. We turned on both
torches full strength. Though what we saw in that light was actually
simple and trifling, I am none the less reluctant to tell of it because
of what it implied.

It was a rough leveling of the débris, upon which several small objects
lay carelessly scattered, and at one corner of which a considerable
amount of gasoline must have been spilled lately enough to leave a
strong odor even at this extreme superplateau altitude. In other words,
it could not be other than a sort of camp--a camp made by questing
beings who, like us, had been turned back by the unexpectedly choked
way to the abyss.

Let me be plain. The scattered objects were, so far as substance was
concerned, all from Lake's camp, and consisted of: tin cans as queerly
opened as those we had seen at that ravaged place, many spent matches,
three illustrated books more or less curiously smudged, an empty ink
bottle with its pictorial and instructional carton, a broken fountain
pen, some oddly snipped fragments of fur and tent cloth, a used
electric battery with circular of directions, a folder that came with
our type of tent heater, and a sprinkling of crumpled papers.

It was all bad enough, but when we smoothed out the papers and looked
at what was on them we felt we had come to the worst. We had found
certain inexplicably blotted papers at the camp which might have
prepared us, yet the effect of the sight, down there in the prehuman
vaults of a nightmare city, was almost too much to bear.

       *       *       *       *       *

A mad Gedney might have made the groups of dots in imitation of
those found on the greenish soapstones, just as the dots on those
insane five-pointed grave mounds might have been made; and he might
conceivably have prepared rough, hasty sketches--varying in their
accuracy--or lack of it--which outlined the neighboring parts of the
city and traced the way from a circularly represented place outside
our previous route--a place we identified as a great cylindrical tower
in the carvings and as a vast circular gulf glimpsed in our aërial
survey--to the present five-pointed structure and the tunnel mouth
therein.

He might, I repeat, have prepared such sketches; for those before
us were quite obviously compiled, as our own had been, from late
sculptures somewhere in the glacial labyrinth, though not from the
ones which we had seen and used. But what this art-blind bungler could
never have done was to execute those sketches in a strange and assured
technique perhaps superior, despite haste and carelessness, to any of
the decadent carvings from which they were taken--the characteristic
and unmistakable technique of the Old Ones themselves in the dead
city's heyday.

There are those who will say Danforth and I were utterly mad not
to flee for our lives after that; since our conclusions were
now--notwithstanding their wildness--completely fixed, and of a nature
I need not even mention to those who have read my account as far as
this. Perhaps we were mad--for have I not said those horrible peaks
were mountains of madness? But I think I can detect something of the
same spirit--albeit in a less extreme form--in the men who stalk
deadly beasts through African jungles to photograph them or study
their habits. Half paralyzed with terror though we were, there was
nevertheless fanned within us a blazing flame of awe and curiosity
which triumphed in the end.

Of course, we did not mean to face that--or those--which we knew had
been there, but we felt that they must be gone by now. They would by
this time have found the other neighboring entrance to the abyss, and
have passed within, to whatever night-black fragments of the past might
await them in the ultimate gulf--the ultimate gulf they had never seen.
Or if that entrance, too, was blocked, they would have gone on to the
north seeking another. They were, we remembered, partly independent of
light.

Looking back to that moment, I can scarcely recall just what precise
form our new emotions took--just what change of immediate objective it
was that so sharpened our sense of expectancy. We certainly did not
mean to face what we feared--yet I will not deny that we may have had
a lurking, unconscious wish to spy certain things from some hidden
vantage point.

Probably we had not given up our zeal to glimpse the abyss itself,
though there was interposed a new goal in the form of that great
circular place shown on the crumpled sketches we had found. We had at
once recognized it as a monstrous cylindrical tower in the carvings,
but appearing only as a prodigious, round aperture from above.

Something about the impressiveness of its rendering, even in these
hasty diagrams, made us think that its subglacial levels must
still form a feature of peculiar importance. Perhaps it embodied
architectural marvels as yet unencountered by us. It was certainly of
incredible age, according to the sculptures in which it figured--being
indeed among the first things built in the city. Its carvings, if
preserved, could not but be highly significant. Moreover, it might form
a good present link with the upper world--a shorter route than the one
we were so carefully blazing and probably that by which those others
had descended.

       *       *       *       *       *

At any rate, the thing we did was to study the terrible sketches--which
quite perfectly confirmed our own--and start back over the indicated
course to the circular place; the course which our nameless
predecessors must have traversed twice before us. The other neighboring
gate to the abyss would lie beyond that. I need not speak of our
journey--during which we continued to leave an economical trail of
paper--for it was precisely the same in kind as that by which we had
reached the cul-de-sac, except that it tended to adhere more closely to
the ground level and even descend to basement corridors.

Every now and then we could trace certain disturbing marks
in the débris or litter underfoot; and, after we had passed
outside the radius of the gasoline scent, we were again faintly
conscious--spasmodically--of that more hideous and more persistent
scent. After the way had branched from our former course, we sometimes
gave the rays of our single torch a furtive sweep along the walls;
noting in almost every case the well-nigh omnipresent sculptures, which
indeed seem to have formed a main æsthetic outlet for the Old Ones.

About nine-thirty p.m., while traversing a vaulted corridor whose
increasingly glaciated floor seemed somewhat below the ground level and
whose roof grew lower as we advanced, we began to see strong daylight
ahead and were able to turn off our torch. It appeared that we were
coming to the vast, circular place, and that our distance from the
upper air could not be very great.

The corridor ended in an arch, surprisingly low for these megalithic
ruins, but we could see much through it even before we emerged. Beyond,
there stretched a prodigious round space--fully two hundred feet in
diameter--strewn with débris and containing many choked archways
corresponding to the one we were about to cross. The walls were--in
available spaces--boldly sculptured into a spiral band of heroic
proportions; and displayed, despite the destructive weathering caused
by the openness of the spot, an artistic splendor far beyond anything
we had encountered before. The littered floor was quite heavily
glaciated, and we fancied that the true bottom lay at a considerably
lower depth.

But the salient object of the place was the titanic stone ramp which,
eluding the archways by a sharp turn outward into the open floor, wound
spirally up the stupendous cylindrical wall like an inside counterpart
of those once climbing outside the monstrous towers or zikkurats of
antique Babylon. Only the rapidity of our flight, and the perspective
which confounded the descent with the tower's inner wall, had
prevented our noticing this feature from the air, and thus caused us to
seek another avenue to the subglacial level.

Pabodie might have been able to tell what sort of engineering held it
in place, but Danforth and I could merely admire and marvel. We could
see mighty stone corbels and pillars here and there, but what we saw
seemed inadequate to the function performed. The thing was excellently
preserved up to the present top of the tower--a highly remarkable
circumstance in view of its exposure--and its shelter had done much to
protect the bizarre and disturbing cosmic sculptures on the walls.

       *       *       *       *       *

As we stepped out into the awesome half daylight of this monstrous
cylinder bottom--fifty million years old, and without doubt the most
primally ancient structure ever to meet our eyes--we saw that the
ramp-traversed sides stretched dizzily up to a height of fully sixty
feet.

This, we recalled from our aërial survey, meant an outside glaciation
of some forty feet; since the yawning gulf we had seen from the plane
had been at the top of an approximately twenty-foot mound of crumbled
masonry, somewhat sheltered for three fourths of its circumference by
the massive curving walls of a line of higher ruins. According to the
sculptures the original tower had stood in the center of an immense
circular plaza, and had been perhaps five hundred or six hundred
feet high, with tiers of horizontal disks near the top, and a row of
needlelike spires along the upper rim.

Most of the masonry had obviously toppled outward rather than inward--a
fortunate happening, since otherwise the ramp might have been shattered
and the whole interior choked. As it was, the ramp showed sad
battering; whilst the choking was such that all the archways seemed to
have been half cleared.

It took us only a moment to conclude that this was indeed the route by
which those others had descended, and that this would be the logical
route for our own ascent, despite the long trail of paper we had left
elsewhere. The tower's mouth was no farther from the foothills and our
waiting plane than was the great terraced building we had entered, and
any further subglacial exploration we might make on this trip would lie
in this general region.

Oddly, we were still thinking about possible later trips--even after
all we had seen and guessed. Then, as we picked our way cautiously over
the débris of the great floor, there came a sight which for the time
excluded all other matters.

It was the neatly huddled array of three sledges in that farther angle
of the ramp's lower and outward-projecting course which had hitherto
been screened from our view. There they were--the three sledges missing
from Lake's camp--shaken by a hard usage which must have included
forcible dragging along great reaches of snowless masonry and débris,
as well as much hand portage over utterly unnavigable places.

They were carefully and intelligently packed and strapped, and
contained things memorably familiar enough: the gasoline stove, fuel
cans, instrument cases, provision tins, tarpaulins obviously bulging
with books, and some bulging with less obvious contents--everything
derived from Lake's equipment.

After what we had found in that other room, we were in a measure
prepared for this encounter. The really great shock came when we
stepped over and undid one tarpaulin, whose outlines had peculiarly
disquieted us. It seems that others as well as Lake had been interested
in collecting typical specimens; for there were two here, both stiffly
frozen, perfectly preserved, patched with adhesive plaster where some
wounds around the neck had occurred, and wrapped with care to prevent
further damage. They were the bodies of young Gedney and the missing
dog.

                                  X.

Many people will probably judge us callous as well as mad for thinking
about the northward tunnel and the abyss so soon after our somber
discovery, and I am not prepared to say that we would have immediately
revived such thoughts but for a specific circumstance which broke in
upon us and set up a whole new train of speculations.

We had replaced the tarpaulin over poor Gedney and were standing
in a kind of mute bewilderment when the sounds finally reached our
consciousness--the first sounds we had heard since descending out of
the open where the mountain wind whined faintly from its unearthly
heights. Well-known and mundane though they were, their presence in
this remote world of death was more unexpected and unnerving than any
grotesque or fabulous tones could possibly have been--since they gave a
fresh upsetting to all our notions of cosmic harmony.

Had it been some trace of that bizarre musical piping over a wide
range, which Lake's dissection report had led us to expect in those
others--and which, indeed, our overwrought fancies had been reading
into every wind howl we had heard since coming on the camp horror--it
would have had a kind of hellish congruity with the æon-dead region
around us. A voice from other epochs belongs in a graveyard of other
epochs.

As it was, however, the noise shattered all our profoundly seated
adjustments--all out tacit acceptance of the inner antarctic as a waste
utterly and irrevocably void of every vestige of normal life.

What we heard was not the fabulous note of any buried blasphemy of
elder earth from whose supernal toughness an age-denied polar sun had
evoked a monstrous response. Instead, it was a thing so mockingly
normal and so unerringly familiarized by our sea days off Victoria Land
and our camp days at McMurdo Sound that we shuddered to think of it
here, where such things ought not to be. To be brief--it was simply the
raucous squawking of a penguin.

The muffled sound floated from subglacial recesses nearly opposite to
the corridor whence we had come--regions manifestly in the direction
of that other tunnel to the vast abyss. The presence of a living water
bird in such a direction--in a world whose surface was one of age-long
and uniform lifelessness--could lead to only one conclusion; hence our
first thought was to verify the objective reality of the sound. It was,
indeed, repeated, and seemed at times to come from more than one throat.

Seeking its source, we entered an archway from which much débris had
been cleared; resuming our trail blazing--with an added paper supply
taken with curious repugnance from one of the tarpaulin bundles on the
sledges--when we left daylight behind.

As the glaciated floor gave place to a litter of detritus, we plainly
discerned some curious, dragging tracks; and once Danforth found
a distinct print of a sort whose description would be only too
superfluous. The course indicated by the penguin cries was precisely
what our map and compass prescribed as an approach to the more
northerly tunnel mouth, and we were glad to find that a bridgeless
thoroughfare on the ground and basement levels seemed open.

The tunnel, according to the chart, ought to start from the basement of
a large pyramidal structure which we seemed vaguely to recall from our
aërial survey as remarkably well-preserved. Along our path the single
torch showed a customary profusion of carvings, but we did not pause to
examine any of these.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly a bulky white shape loomed up ahead of us, and we flashed on
the second torch. It is odd how wholly this new quest had turned our
minds from earlier fears of what might lurk near. Those other ones,
having left their supplies in the great circular place, must have
planned to return after their scouting trip toward or into the abyss;
yet we had now discarded all caution concerning them as completely as
if they had never existed.

This white, waddling thing was fully six feet high, yet we seemed to
realize at once that it was not one of those others. They were larger
and dark, and, according to the sculptures, their motion over land
surfaces was a swift, assured matter despite the queerness of their
sea-born tentacle equipment. But to say that the white thing did not
profoundly frighten us would be vain. We were indeed clutched for an
instant by a primitive dread almost sharper than the worst of our
reasoned fears regarding those others.

Then came a flash of anticlimax as the white shape sidled into a
lateral archway to our left, to join two others of its kind which
had summoned it in raucous tones. For it was only a penguin--albeit
of a huge, unknown species larger than the greatest of the known
king penguins, and monstrous in its combined albinism and virtual
eyelessness.

When we had followed the thing into the archway and turned both our
torches on the indifferent and unheeding group of three, we saw that
they were all eyeless albinos of the same unknown and gigantic species.

Their size reminded us of some of the archaic penguins depicted in the
Old Ones' sculptures, and it did not take us long to conclude that
they were descended from the same stock--undoubtedly surviving through
a retreat to some warmer inner region whose perpetual blackness had
destroyed their pigmentation and atrophied their eyes to mere useless
slits.

That their present habitat was the vast abyss we sought, was not for a
moment to be doubted; and this evidence of the gulf's continued warmth
and habitability filled us with the most curious and subtly perturbing
fancies.

We wondered, too, what had caused these three birds to venture out
of their usual domain. The state and silence of the great dead city
made it clear that it had at no time been a habitual seasonal rookery,
whilst the manifest indifference of the trio to our presence made it
seem odd that any passing party of those others should have startled
them.

Was it possible that those others had taken some aggressive notion or
tried to increase their meat supply? We doubted whether that pungent
odor which the dogs had hated could cause an equal antipathy in these
penguins; since their ancestors had obviously lived on excellent terms
with the Old Ones--an amicable relationship which must have survived in
the abyss below as long as any of the Old Ones remained.

Regretting--in a flare-up of the old spirit of pure science--that we
could not photograph these anomalous creatures, we shortly left them
to their squawking and pushed on toward the abyss whose openness was
now so positively proved to us, and whose exact direction occasional
penguin tracks made clear.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not long afterward a steep descent in a long, low, doorless, and
peculiarly sculptureless corridor led us to believe that we were
approaching the tunnel mouth at last. We had passed two more penguins.

Then the corridor ended in a prodigious open space which made us
gasp involuntarily--a perfect inverted hemisphere, obviously deep
underground, fully a hundred feet in diameter and fifty feet high, with
low archways opening around all parts of the circumference but one, and
that one yawning cavernously with a black, arched aperture which broke
the symmetry of the vault to a height of nearly fifteen feet. It was
the entrance to the great abyss.

In this vast hemisphere, whose concave roof was impressively though
decadently carved to a likeness of the primordial celestial dome, a few
albino penguins waddled--aliens there, but indifferent and unseeing.
The black tunnel yawned indefinitely off at a steep, descending grade,
its aperture adorned with grotesquely chiseled jambs and lintel.

From that cryptical mouth we fancied a current of slightly warmer air
and perhaps even a suspicion of vapor proceeded; and we wondered what
living entities other than penguins the limitless void below, and the
contiguous honeycombings of the land and the titan mountains, might
conceal.

We wondered, too, whether the trace of mountaintop smoke at first
suspected by poor Lake, as well as the odd haze we had ourselves
perceived around the rampart-crowned peak, might not be caused by
the tortuous-channeled rising of some such vapor from the unfathomed
regions of earth's core.

Entering the tunnel, we saw that its outline was--at least at the
start--about fifteen feet each way--sides, floor, and arched roof
composed of the usual megalithic masonry. The sides were sparsely
decorated with cartouches of conventional designs in a later, decadent
style; and all the construction and carving were marvellously
well-preserved.

The floor was quite clear, except for a slight detritus bearing
outgoing penguin tracks and the inward tracks of those others. The
farther one advanced, the warmer it became; so that we were soon
unbuttoning our heavy garments. We wondered whether there were any
actually igneous manifestations below, and whether the waters of that
sunless sea were hot.

After a short distance the masonry gave place to solid rock, though
the tunnel kept the same proportions and presented the same aspect of
carved regularity. Occasionally its varying grade became so steep that
grooves were cut in the floor.

Several times we noted the mouths of small lateral galleries not
recorded in our diagrams; none of them such as to complicate the
problem of our return, and all of them welcome as possible refuges in
case we met unwelcome entities on their way back from the abyss.

The nameless scent of such things was very distinct. Doubtless it
was suicidally foolish to venture into that tunnel under the known
conditions, but the lure of the unplumbed is stronger in certain
persons than most suspect--indeed, it was just such a lure which had
brought us to this unearthly polar waste in the first place.

We saw several penguins as we passed along, and speculated on the
distance we would have to traverse. The carvings had led us to expect
a steep downhill walk of about a mile to the abyss, but our previous
wanderings had shown us that matters of scale were not wholly to be
depended on.

After about a quarter of a mile that nameless scent became greatly
accentuated, and we kept very careful track of the various lateral
openings we passed. There was no visible vapor as at the mouth, but
this was doubtless due to the lack of contrasting cooler air. The
temperature was rapidly ascending, and we were not surprised to come
upon a careless heap of material shudderingly familiar to us. It was
composed of furs and tent cloths taken from Lake's camp, and we did
not pause to study the bizarre forms into which the fabrics had been
slashed.

Slightly beyond this point we noticed a decided increase in the size
and number of the side galleries, and concluded that the densely
honeycombed region beneath the higher foothills must now have been
reached.

The nameless scent was now curiously mixed with another and scarcely
less offensive odor--of what nature we could not guess, though we
thought of decaying organisms and perhaps unknown subterrane fungi.

Then came a startling expansion of the tunnel for which the
carvings had not prepared us--a broadening and rising into a lofty,
natural-looking elliptical cavern with a level floor, some seventy-five
feet long and fifty broad, and with many immense side passages leading
away into cryptical darkness.

       *       *       *       *       *

Though this cavern was natural in appearance, an inspection with both
torches suggested that it had been formed by the artificial destruction
of several walls between adjacent honeycombings. The walls were
rough, and the high, vaulted roof was thick with stalactites; but the
solid rock floor had been smoothed off, and was free from all débris,
detritus, or even dust to a positively abnormal extent.

Except for the avenue through which we had come, this was true of
the floors of all the great galleries opening off from it; and the
singularity of the condition was such as to set us vainly puzzling.

The curious new fetor which had supplemented the nameless scent was
excessively pungent here; so much so that it destroyed all trace of the
other. Something about this whole place, with its polished and almost
glistening floor, struck us as more vaguely baffling and horrible than
any of the monstrous things we have previously encountered.

The regularity of the passage immediately ahead, prevented all
confusion as to the right course amidst this plethora of equally great
cave mouths. Nevertheless we resolved to resume our paper trail blazing
if any further complexity should develop; for dust tracks, of course,
could no longer be expected.

Upon resuming our direct progress we cast a beam of torchlight over the
tunnel walls--and stopped short in amazement at the supremely radical
change which had come over the carvings in this part of the passage.
We realized, of course, the great decadence of the Old Ones' sculpture
at the time of the tunneling, and had indeed noticed the inferior
workmanship of the arabesques in the stretches behind us.

But now, in this deeper section beyond the cavern, there was a sudden
difference wholly transcending explanation--a difference in basic
nature as well as in mere quality, and involving so profound and
calamitous a degradation of skill that nothing in the hitherto observed
rate of decline could have led one to expect it.

This new and degenerate work was coarse, bold, and wholly lacking in
delicacy of detail. It was countersunk with exaggerated depth in bands
following the same general line as the sparse cartouches of the earlier
sections, but the height of the reliefs did not reach the level of the
general surface.

Danforth had the idea that it was a second carving--a sort of
palimpsest formed after the obliteration of a previous design. In
nature it was wholly decorative and conventional, and consisted of
crude spirals and angles roughly following the quintile mathematical
tradition of the Old Ones, yet seeming more like a parody than a
perpetuation of that tradition.

Since we could not afford to spend any considerable time in study, we
resumed our advance after a cursory look.

We saw and heard fewer penguins, but thought we caught a vague
suspicion of an infinitely distant chorus of them somewhere deep within
the earth. The new and inexplicable odor was abominably strong, and we
could detect scarcely a sign of that other nameless scent.

Puffs of visible vapor ahead bespoke increasing contrasts in
temperature, and the relative nearness of the sunless sea cliffs of the
great abyss. Then, quite unexpectedly, we saw certain obstructions on
the polished floor ahead--obstructions which were quite definitely not
penguins--and turned on our second torch after making sure that the
objects were quite stationary.

                                  XI.

Still another time have I come to a place where it is very difficult
to proceed. I ought to be hardened by this stage; but there are some
experiences and intimations which scar too deeply to permit of healing,
and leave only such added sensitiveness that memory re-inspired all the
original horror.

We saw, as I have said, certain obstructions on the polished
floor ahead; and I may add that our nostrils were assailed almost
simultaneously by a very curious intensification of the strange,
prevailing fetor, now quite plainly mixed with the nameless stench of
those others which had gone before us.

The light of the second torch left no doubt of what the obstructions
were, and we dared approach them only because we could see, even from
a distance, that they were quite as past all harming power as had been
the six similar specimens unearthed from the monstrous star-mounded
graves at poor Lake's camp.

They were, indeed, as lacking in completeness as most of those we
had unearthed--though it grew plain from the thick, dark-green pool
gathering around them that their incompleteness was of infinitely
greater recency. There seemed to be only four of them, whereas Lake's
bulletins would have suggested no less than eight as forming the
group which had preceded us. To find them in this state was wholly
unexpected, and we wondered what sort of monstrous struggle had
occurred down here in the dark.

Penguins, attacked in a body, retaliate savagely with their beaks; and
our ears now made certain the existence of a rookery far beyond. Had
those others disturbed such a place and aroused murderous pursuit? The
obstructions did not suggest it, for penguin beaks against the tough
tissues Lake had dissected could hardly account for the terrible damage
our approaching glance was beginning to make out. Besides, the huge
blind birds we had seen appeared to be singularly peaceful.

Had there, then, been a struggle among those others, and were the
absent four responsible? If so, where were they? Were they close at
hand and likely to form an immediate menace to us? We glanced anxiously
at some of the smooth-floored lateral passages as we continued our slow
and frankly reluctant approach.

Whatever the conflict was, it had clearly been that which had
frightened the penguins into their unaccustomed wandering. It must,
then, have arisen near that faintly heard rookery in the incalculable
gulf beyond, since there were no signs that any birds had normally
dwelt here.

Perhaps, we reflected, there had been a hideous running fight, with
the weaker party seeking to get back to the cached sledges when their
pursuers finished them. One could picture the demonic fray between
namelessly monstrous entities as it surged out of the black abyss with
great clouds of frantic penguins squawking and scurrying ahead.

I say that we approached those sprawling and incomplete obstructions
slowly and reluctantly. Would to Heaven we had never approached them at
all, but had run back at top speed out of that blasphemous tunnel with
the greasily smooth floors and the degenerate murals aping and mocking
the things they had superseded--run back, before we had seen what we
did see, and before our minds were burned with something which will
never let us breathe easily again!

       *       *       *       *       *

Both of our torches were turned on the prostrate objects, so that we
soon realized the dominant factor in their incompleteness. Mauled,
compressed, twisted, and ruptured as they were, their chief common
injury was total decapitation.

From each one the tentacled starfish head had been removed; and as
we drew near we saw that the manner of removal looked more like some
hellish tearing or suction than like any ordinary form of cleavage.

Their noisome dark-green ichor formed a large, spreading pool; but its
stench was half overshadowed by that newer and stranger stench, here
more pungent than at any other point along our route.

Only when we had come very close to the sprawling obstructions could we
trace that second, unexplainable fetor to any immediate source--and the
instant we did so Danforth, remembering certain very vivid sculptures
of the Old Ones' history in the Permian Age one hundred and fifty
million years ago, gave vent to a nerve-tortured cry which echoed
hysterically through that vaulted and archaic passage with the evil,
palimpsest carvings.

I came only just short of echoing his cry myself; for I had seen those
primal sculptures, too, and had shudderingly admired the way the
nameless artist had suggested that hideous slime coating found on
certain incomplete and prostrate Old Ones--those whom the frightful
Shoggoths had characteristically slain and sucked to a ghastly
headlessness in the great war of resubjugation.

They were infamous, nightmare sculptures even when telling of age-old,
bygone things; for Shoggoths and their work ought not to be seen by
human beings or portrayed by any beings.

The mad author of the _Necronomicon_ had nervously tried to swear that
none had been bred on this planet, and that only drugged dreamers
had ever conceived them. Formless protoplasm able to mock and
reflect all forms and organs and processes--viscous agglutinations
of bubbling cells--rubbery fifteen-foot spheroids infinitely plastic
and ductile--slaves of suggestion, builders of cities--more and more
sullen, more and more intelligent, more and more amphibious, more and
more imitative! Great Heaven! What madness made even those blasphemous
Old Ones willing to use and to carve such things?

And now, when Danforth and I saw the freshly glistening and
reflectively iridescent black slime which clung thickly to those
headless bodies and stank obscenely with that new, unknown odor whose
cause only a diseased fancy could envisage--clung to those bodies
and sparkled less voluminously on a smooth part of the accursedly
resculptured wall in a series of grouped dots--we understood the
quality of cosmic fear to its uttermost depths.

It was not fear of those four missing others--for all too well did we
suspect they would do no harm again. Poor devils! After all, they were
not evil things of their kind. They were the men of another age and
another order of being. Nature had played a hellish jest on them--as
it will on any others that human madness, callousness, or cruelty may
hereafter drag up in that hideously dead or sleeping polar waste--and
this was their tragic homecoming.

They had not been even savages--for what indeed had they done? That
awful awakening in the cold of an unknown epoch--perhaps an attack by
the furry, frantically barking quadrupeds, and a dazed defense against
them and the equally frantic white simians with the queer wrappings and
paraphernalia! Poor Lake. Poor Gedney. And poor Old Ones! Scientists
to the last--what had they done that we would not have done in their
place? Lord, what intelligence and persistence! What a facing of the
incredible, just as those carven kinsmen and forbears had faced things
only a little less incredible! Radiates, vegetables, monstrosities,
star spawn--whatever they had been, they were men!

       *       *       *       *       *

They had crossed the icy peaks on whose templed slopes they had once
worshiped and roamed among the tree ferns. They had found their dead
city brooding under its curse, and had read its carven latter days as
we had done. They had tried to reach their living fellows in fabled
depths of blackness they had never seen--and what had they found?

All this flashed in unison through the thoughts of Danforth and me as
we looked from those headless, slime-coated shapes to the loathsome
palimpsest sculptures and the diabolical dot groups of fresh slime on
the wall beside them--looked and understood what must have triumphed
and survived down there in the Cyclopean water city of that nighted,
penguin-fringed abyss, whence even now a sinister curling mist had
begun to belch pallidly as if in answer to Danforth's hysterical scream.

The shock of recognizing that monstrous slime and headlessness had
frozen us into mute, motionless statues, and it is only through later
conversations that we have learned of the complete identity of our
thoughts at that moment.

It seemed æons that we stood there, but actually it could not have been
more than ten or fifteen seconds. That hateful, pallid mist curled
forward as if veritably driven by some remoter advancing bulk--and then
came a sound which upset much of what we had just decided, and in so
doing broke the spell and enabled us to run like mad past squawking,
confused penguins over our former trail back to the city, along
ice-sunken megalithic corridors to the great open circle, and up that
archaic spiral ramp in a frenzied, automatic plunge for the sane outer
air and light of day.

[Illustration: _And then came a sound--a horrible sound--which enabled
us to run like mad for the sane outer air_----]

The new sound, as I have intimated, upset much that we had decided;
because it was what poor Lake's dissection had led us to attribute
to those we had just judged dead. It was, Danforth later told me,
precisely what he had caught in infinitely muffled form when at that
spot beyond the alley corner above the glacial level; and it certainly
had a shocking resemblance to the wind pipings we had both heard around
the lofty mountain caves.

At the risk of seeming puerile I will add another thing, too, if
only because of the surprising way Danforth's impression chimed with
mine. Of course, common reading is what prepared us both to make the
interpretation, though Danforth has hinted at queer notions about
unsuspected and forbidden sources to which Poe may have had access when
writing his "Arthur Gordon Pym" a century ago.

It will be remembered that in that fantastic tale there is a word of
unknown but terrible and prodigious significance connected with the
antarctic and screamed eternally by the gigantic, spectrally snowy
birds of that malign region's core. "_Tekeli-li! Tekeli-li!_" That, I
may admit, is exactly what we thought we heard conveyed by that sudden
sound behind the advancing white mist--that insidious, musical piping
over a singularly wide range.

       *       *       *       *       *

We were in full flight before three notes or syllables had been
uttered, though we knew that the swiftness of the Old Ones would enable
any scream-roused and pursuing survivor of the slaughter to overtake us
in a moment if it really wished to do so.

We had a vague hope, however, that nonaggressive conduct and a display
of kindred reason might cause such a being to spare us in case of
capture, if only from scientific curiosity.

After all, if such a one had nothing to fear for itself it would have
no motive in harming us. Concealment being futile at this juncture, we
used our torch for a running glance behind, and perceived that the mist
was thinning. Would we see at last, a complete and living specimen of
those others? Again came that insidious musical piping--"_Tekeli-li!
Tekeli-li!_"

Then, noting that we were actually gaining on our pursuer, it occurred
to us that the entity might be wounded. We could take no chances,
however, since it was very obviously approaching in answer to
Danforth's scream, rather than in flight from any other entity. The
timing was too close to admit of doubt.

Of the whereabouts of that less conceivable and less mentionable
nightmare--that fetid, unglimpsed mountain of slime-spewing protoplasm
whose race had conquered the abyss and sent land pioneers to recarve
and squirm through the burrows of the hills--we could form no guess;
and it cost us a genuine pang to leave this probably crippled Old
One--perhaps a lone survivor--to the peril of recapture and a nameless
fate.

Thank Heaven we did not slacken our run. The curling mist had thickened
again, and was driving ahead with increased speed; whilst the straying
penguins in our rear were squawking and screaming and displaying
signs of a panic really surprising in view of their relatively minor
confusion when we had passed them.

Once more came that sinister, wide-ranged piping--"_Tekeli-li!
Tekeli-li!_" We had been wrong. The thing was not wounded, but had
merely paused on encountering the bodies of its fallen kindred and the
hellish slime inscription above them. We could never know what that
demon message was--but those burials at Lake's camp had shown how much
importance the beings attached to their dead.

Our recklessly used torch now revealed ahead of us the large open
cavern where various ways converged, and we were glad to be leaving
those morbid palimpsest sculptures--almost felt even when scarcely
seen--behind.

Another thought which the advent of the cave inspired was the
possibility of losing our pursuer at this bewildering focus of large
galleries. There were several of the blind albino penguins in the open
space, and it seemed clear that their fear of the oncoming entity was
extreme to the point of unaccountability.

If at that point we dimmed our torch to the very lowest limit of
traveling need, keeping it strictly in front of us, the frightened
squawking motions of the huge birds in the mist might muffle our
footfalls, screen our true course, and somehow set up a false lead.

Amidst the churning, spiraling fog, the littered and unglistening floor
of the main tunnel beyond this point, as differing from the other
morbidly polished burrows, could hardly form a highly distinguishing
feature; even, so far as we could conjecture, for those indicated
special senses which made the Old Ones partly, though imperfectly,
independent of light in emergencies.

In fact, we were somewhat apprehensive lest we go astray ourselves
in our haste. For we had, of course, decided to keep straight on
toward the dead city; since the consequences of loss in those unknown
foothill honeycombings would be unthinkable.

The fact that we survived and emerged is sufficient proof that the
thing did take a wrong gallery whilst we providentially hit on
the right one. The penguins alone could not have saved us, but in
conjunction with the mist they seem to have done so. Only a benign fate
kept the curling vapors thick enough at the right moment, for they were
constantly shifting and threatening to vanish.

Indeed, they did lift for a second just before we emerged from the
nauseously resculptured tunnel into the cave; so that we actually
caught one first and only half glimpse of the oncoming entity as we
cast a final, desperately fearful glance backward before dimming the
torch and mixing with the penguins in the hope of dodging pursuit. If
the fate which screened us was benign, that which gave us the half
glimpse was infinitely the opposite; for to that flash of semivision
can be traced a full half of the horror which has ever since haunted us.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our exact motive in looking back again was perhaps no more than the
immemorial instinct of the pursued to gauge the nature and course
of its pursuer; or perhaps it was an automatic attempt to answer a
subconscious question raised by one of our senses.

In the midst of our flight, with all our faculties centered on the
problem of escape, we were in no condition to observe and analyze
details; yet even so our latent brain cells must have wondered at the
message brought them by our nostrils. Afterward, we realized what it
was--that our retreat from the fetid slime coating on those headless
obstructions, and the coincident approach of the pursuing entity, had
not brought us the exchange of stenches which logic called for.

In the neighborhood of the prostrate things that new and lately
unexplainable fetor had been wholly dominant; but by this time it ought
to have largely given place to the nameless stench associated with
those others. This it had not done--for instead, the newer and less
bearable smell was now virtually undiluted, and growing more and more
poisonously insistent each second.

So we glanced back--simultaneously, it would appear; though no doubt
the incipient motion of one prompted the imitation of the other. As
we did so we flashed both torches full strength at the momentarily
thinned mist; either from sheer primitive anxiety to see all we could,
or in a less primitive but equally unconscious effort to dazzle the
entity before we dimmed our light and dodged among the penguins of the
labyrinth center ahead.

Unhappy act! Not Orpheus himself, or Lot's wife, paid much more dearly
for a backward glance. And again came that shocking, wide-ranged
piping--"_Tekeli-li! Tekeli-li!_"

Danforth was totally unstrung, and the first thing I remember of the
rest of the journey was hearing him light-headedly chant a hysterical
formula in which I alone of mankind could have found anything but
insane irrelevance. It reverberated in falsetto echoes among the
squawks of the penguins; reverberated through the vaulting ahead,
and--thank Heaven--through the now empty vaultings behind. He could not
have begun it at once--else we would not have been alive and blindly
racing. I shudder to think of what a shade of difference in his nervous
reactions might have brought.

"South Station Under--Washington Under--Park Street
Under--Kendall--Central--Harvard----" The poor fellow was chanting the
familiar stations of the Boston-Cambridge tunnel that burrowed through
our peaceful native soil thousands of miles away in New England, yet to
me the ritual had neither irrelevance nor home feeling. It had only
horror, because I knew unerringly the monstrous, nefandous analogy that
had suggested it.

We had expected, upon looking back, to see a terrible and incredible
moving entity if the mists were thin enough; but of that entity we had
formed a clear idea. What we did see--for the mists were indeed all too
malignly thinned--was something altogether different, and immeasurably
more hideous and detestable. It was the utter, objective embodiment of
the fantastic novelist's 'thing that should not be'; and its nearest
comprehensible analogue is a vast, onrushing subway train as one sees
it from a station platform--the great black front looming colossally
out of infinite subterraneous distance, constellated with strangely
colored lights and filling the prodigious burrow.

But we were not on a station platform. We were on the track ahead as
the nightmare, plastic column of fetid black iridescence oozed tightly
onward through its fifteen-foot sinus, gathering unholy speed and
driving before it a spiral, rethickening cloud of the pallid abyss
vapor.

It was a terrible, indescribable thing, vaster than any subway train--a
shapeless congeries of protoplasmic bubbles, faintly self-luminous, and
with myriads of temporary eyes forming and unforming as pustules of
greenish light all over the tunnel-filling front that bore down upon
us, crushing the frantic penguins and slithering over the glistening
floor that it and its kind had swept so evilly free of all litter.

Still came that eldritch, mocking cry--"_Tekeli-li! Tekeli-li!_" And at
last we remembered that the demonic Shoggoths--given life, though, and
plastic organ patterns solely by the Old Ones, and having no language
save that which the dot groups expressed--had likewise no voice save
the imitated accents of their bygone masters.

                                 XII.

Danforth and I have recollections of emerging into the great sculptured
hemisphere and of threading our back trail through the Cyclopean rooms
and corridors of the dead city; yet these are purely dream fragments
involving no memory of volition, details, or physical exertion.

There was something vaguely appropriate about our departure from those
buried epochs; for as we wound our panting way up the sixty-foot
cylinder of primal masonry we glimpsed beside us a continuous
procession of heroic sculptures in the dead race's early and undecayed
technique--a farewell from the Old Ones, written fifty million years
ago.

Finally, scrambling out at the top, we found ourselves on a great mound
of tumbled blocks, with the curved walls of higher stonework rising
westward, and the brooding peaks of the great mountains showing beyond
the more crumbled structures toward the east.

The sky above was a churning and opalescent mass of tenuous ice vapors,
and the cold clutched at our vitals.

In less than a quarter of an hour we had found the steep grade to the
foothills--the probable ancient terrace--by which we had descended, and
could see the dark bulk of our great plane amidst the sparse ruins on
the rising slope ahead.

Halfway uphill toward our goal we paused for a momentary breathing
spell, and turned to look again at the fantastic tangle of incredible
stone shapes below us--once more outlined mystically against an unknown
west. As we did so we saw that the sky beyond had lost its morning
haziness; the restless ice vapors having moved up to the zenith, where
their mocking outlines seemed on the point of settling into some
bizarre pattern which they feared to make quite definite or conclusive.

       *       *       *       *       *

There now lay revealed on the ultimate white horizon behind
the grotesque city a dim, elfin line of pinnacled violet whose
needle-pointed heights loomed dreamlike against the beckoning rose
color of the western sky. Up toward this shimmering rim sloped the
ancient table-land, the depressed course of the bygone river traversing
it as an irregular ribbon of shadow.

For a second we gasped in admiration of the scene's unearthly cosmic
beauty, and then vague horror began to creep into our souls. For this
far violet line could be nothing else than the terrible mountains of
the forbidden land--highest of earth's peaks and focus of earth's evil;
harborers of nameless horrors and Archæan secrets; shunned and prayed
to by those who feared to carve their meaning; untrodden by any living
thing of earth, but visited by the sinister lightnings and sending
strange beams across the plains in the polar night.

If the sculptured maps and pictures in that prehuman city had told
truly, these cryptic violet mountains could not be much less than three
hundred miles away; yet none the less sharply did their dim elfin
essence jut above that remote and snowy rim, like the serrated edge of
a monstrous alien planet about to rise into unaccustomed heavens.

Looking at them, I thought nervously of certain sculptured hints of
what the great bygone river had washed down into the city from their
accursed sloping--and wondered how much sense and how much folly had
lain in the fears of those Old Ones who carved them so reticently.

I recalled how their northerly end must come near the coast at Queen
Mary Land, where even at that moment Sir Douglas Mawson's expedition
was doubtless working less than a thousand miles away; and hoped that
no evil fate would give Sir Douglas and his men a glimpse of what
might lie beyond the protecting coastal range. Such thoughts formed a
measure of my overwrought condition at the time--and Danforth seemed to
be even worse.

Yet before we had passed the great star-shaped ruin and reached our
plane our fears had become transferred to the lesser, but vast enough,
range whose re-crossing lay ahead of us.

From these foothills the black, ruin-crusted slopes reared up starkly
and hideously against the east, again reminding us of those strange
Asian paintings of Nicholas Roerich; and when we thought of the
damnable honeycombings inside them, and of the frightful amorphous
entities that might have pushed their fetidly squirming sway even to
the topmost hollow pinnacles, we could not face without panic the
prospect of again sailing by those suggestive skyward cave mouths where
the wind made sounds like an evil musical piping over a wide range.

To make matters worse, we saw distinct traces of local mist around
several of the summits--as poor Lake must have done when he made that
early mistake about volcanism--and thought shiveringly of that kindred
mist from which we had just escaped--of that, and of the blasphemous,
horror-fostering abyss whence all such vapors came.

       *       *       *       *       *

All was well with the plane, and we clumsily hauled on our heavy flying
furs. Danforth got the engine started without trouble, and we made a
very smooth take-off over the nightmare city.

At a very high level there must have been great disturbance, since the
ice-dust clouds of the zenith were doing all sorts of fantastic things;
but at twenty-four thousand feet, the height we needed for the pass, we
found navigation quite practicable.

As we drew close to the jutting peaks the wind's strange piping again
became manifest, and I could see Danforth's hands trembling at the
controls. Rank amateur though I was, I thought at that moment that I
might be a better navigator than he in effecting the dangerous crossing
between pinnacles; and when I made motions to change seats and take
over his duties he did not protest.

I tried to keep all my skill and self-possession about me, and stared
at the sector of reddish farther sky betwixt the walls of the pass.

But Danforth, released from his piloting and keyed up to a dangerous
nervous pitch, could not keep quiet. I felt him turning and wriggling
about as he looked back at the terrible receding city, ahead at the
cave-riddled, cube-barnacled peaks, sidewise at the bleak sea of snowy,
rampart-strown foothills, and upward at the seething, grotesquely
clouded sky.

It was then, just as I was trying to steer safely through the pass,
that his mad shrieking brought us so close to disaster, by shattering
my tight hold on myself and causing me to fumble helplessly with the
controls for a moment. A second afterward my resolution triumphed and
we made the crossing safely----Yet I am afraid that Danforth will never
be the same again.

I have said that Danforth refused to tell me what final horror made him
scream out so insanely--a horror which, I feel sadly sure, is mainly
responsible for his present breakdown. We had snatches of shouted
conversation above the wind's piping and the engine's buzzing as we
reached the safe side of the range and swooped slowly down toward the
camp, but that had mostly to do with the pledges of secrecy we had made
as we prepared to leave the nightmare city.

       *       *       *       *       *

All that Danforth has ever hinted is that the final horror was a
mirage. It was not, he declares, anything connected with the cubes
and caves of those echoing, vaporous, wormily honeycombed mountains
of madness which we crossed; but a single fantastic, demonic glimpse,
among the churning westward zenith clouds, of what lay back of those
other violet westward mountains which the Old Ones had shunned and
feared.

He has on rare occasions whispered disjointed and irresponsible things
about "the black pit," "the carven rim," "the proto-Shoggoths," "the
windowless solids with five dimensions," "the nameless cylinders," "the
elder pharos," "Yog-Sothoth," "the primal white jelly," "the color out
of space," "the wings," "the eyes in darkness," "the moon-ladder," "the
original, the eternal, the undying," and other bizarre conceptions;
but when he is fully himself he repudiates all this and attributes it
to his curious and macabre reading of earlier years. Danforth, indeed,
is known to be among the few who have ever dared go completely through
that worm-riddled copy of the _Necronomicon_ kept under lock and key in
the college library.

The higher sky, as we crossed the range, was surely vaporous and
disturbed enough; and although I did not see the zenith I can well
imagine that its swirls of ice dust may have taken strange forms.
Imagination, knowing how vividly distant scenes can sometimes be
reflected, refracted, and magnified by such layers of restless cloud,
might easily have supplied the rest--and, of course, Danforth did not
hint any of these specific horrors till after his memory had had a
chance to draw on his bygone reading. He could never have seen so much
in one instantaneous glance.

At the time, his shrieks were confined to the repetition of a single,
mad word of all too obvious source: "_Tekeli-li! Tekeli-li!_"

                                THE END

The Shadow Over Innsmouth

                        _Horrifying Novelette_

                          By H. P. LOVECRAFT

                 _Unspeakable monstrousness over-hung
                 the crumbling, stench-cursed town of
               Innsmouth ... and folks there had somehow
                   got out of the idea of dying...._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Weird Tales January 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

During the winter of 1927-28 Federal government officials made a
strange and secret investigation of certain conditions in the ancient
Massachusetts seaport of Innsmouth. The public first learned of it in
February, when a vast series of raids and arrests occurred, followed by
the deliberate burning and dynamiting--under suitable precautions--of
an enormous number of crumbling, worm-eaten, and supposedly empty
houses along the abandoned waterfront. Uninquiring souls let this
occurrence pass as one of the major clashes in a spasmodic war on
liquor.

Keener news-followers, however, wondered at the prodigious number of
arrests, the abnormally large force of men used in making them, and
the secrecy surrounding the disposal of the prisoners. No trials, or
even definite charges, were reported; nor were any of the captives
seen thereafter in the regular jails of the nation. There were vague
statements about disease and concentration camps, and later about
dispersal in various naval and military prisons, but nothing positive
ever developed.

Complaints from many liberal organizations were met with long
confidential discussions, and representatives were taken on trips
to certain camps and prisons. As a result, these societies became
surprisingly passive and reticent. Newspaper men were harder to
manage, but seemed largely to cooperate with the government in the
end. Only one paper--a tabloid always discounted because of its
wild policy--mentioned the deep-diving submarine that discharged
torpedoes downward in the marine abyss just beyond Devil Reef. That
item, gathered by chance in a haunt of sailors, seemed indeed rather
far-fetched; since the low, black reef lies a full mile and a half out
from Innsmouth Harbor.

But at last I am going to defy the ban on speech about this thing.
Results, I am certain, are so thorough that no public harm save a shock
of repulsion could ever accrue from a hinting of what was found by
those horrified raiders at Innsmouth. For my contact with this affair
has been closer than that of any other layman, and I have carried away
impressions which are yet to drive me to drastic measures.

It was I who fled frantically out of Innsmouth in the early morning
hours of July 16, 1927, and whose frightened appeals for government
inquiry and action brought on the whole reported episode. I was willing
enough to stay mute while the affair was fresh and uncertain; but now
that it is an old story, with public interest and curiosity gone, I
have an odd craving to whisper about those few frightful hours in
that ill-rumored and evilly-shadowed seaport of death and blasphemous
abnormality.

I never heard of Innsmouth till the day before I saw it for the first
and--so far--last time. I was celebrating my coming of age by a tour
of New England--sightseeing, antiquarian, and genealogical--and had
planned to go directly from ancient Newburyport to Arkham, whence my
mother's family was derived. I had no car, but was traveling by train,
trolley, and motor-coach, always seeking the cheapest possible route.
In Newburyport they told me that the steam train was the thing to
take to Arkham; and it was only at the station ticket-office, when I
demurred at the high fare, that I learned about Innsmouth. The stout,
shrewd-faced agent, whose speech showed him to be no local man, seemed
sympathetic toward my efforts at economy, and made a suggestion that
none of my other informants had offered.

"You _could_ take that old bus, I suppose," he said with a certain
hesitation, "but it ain't thought much of hereabouts. It goes through
Innsmouth--you may have heard about that--and so the people don't
like it. Run by an Innsmouth fellow--Joe Sargent--but never gets any
custom from here, or Arkham either, I guess. Leaves the Square--front
of Hammond's Drug Store--at 10 A.M. and 7 P.M. unless they've changed
lately. Looks like a terrible rattletrap--I've never been on it."

That was the first I ever heard of shadowed Innsmouth. Any reference
to a town not shown on common maps or listed in recent guidebooks
would have interested me, and the agent's old manner of allusion
roused something like real curiosity. So I asked the agent to tell me
something about it.

He was very deliberate, and spoke with an air of feeling slightly
superior to what he said.

"Innsmouth? Well, it's a queer kind of town down at the mouth of
the Manuxet. Used to be almost a city--quite a port before the War
of 1812--but all gone to pieces in the last hundred years or so. No
railroad now--B. & M. never went through, and the branch line from
Rowley was given up years ago.

"More empty houses than there are people, I guess, and no business to
speak of except fishing and lobstering. Everybody trades mostly either
here or in Arkham or Ipswich. Once they had quite a few mills, but
nothing's left now except one gold refinery running on the leanest kind
of part time.

"That refinery, though, used to be a big thing, and Old Man Marsh,
who owns it, must be richer'n Croesus. Queer old duck, though, and
sticks mighty close in his home. He's supposed to have developed
some skin disease or deformity late in life that makes him keep out
of sight. Grandson of Captain Obed Marsh, who founded the business.
His mother seems to've been some kind of foreigner--they say a South
Sea islander--so everybody raised Cain when he married an Ipswich
girl fifty years ago. They always do that about Innsmouth people, and
folks here and hereabouts always try to cover up any Innsmouth blood
they have in 'em. But Marsh's children and grandchildren look just
like anybody else so far's I can see. I've had 'em pointed out to me
here--though, come to think of it, the elder children don't seem to be
around lately. Never saw the old man.

"And why is everybody so down on Innsmouth? Well, young fellow, you
mustn't take too much stock in what people around here say. They're
hard to get started, but once they do get started they never let
up. They've been telling things about Innsmouth--whispering 'em,
mostly--for the last hundred years, I guess, and I gather they're
more scared than anything else. Some of the stories would make you
laugh--about old Captain Marsh driving bargains with the devil and
bringing imps out of hell to live in Innsmouth, or about some kind of
devil-worship and awful sacrifices in some place near the wharves that
people stumbled on around 1845 or there-abouts--but I come from Panton,
Vermont, and that kind of story don't go down with me.

"You ought to hear, though, what some of the old-timers tell about
the black reef off the coast--Devil Reef, they call it. It's well
above water a good part of the time, and never much below it, but at
that you could hardly call it an island. The story is that there's a
whole legion of devils seen sometimes on that reef--sprawled about,
or darting in and out of some kind of caves near the top. It's a
rugged, uneven thing, a good bit over a mile out, and toward the end of
shipping days sailors used to make big detours just to avoid it.

"That is, sailors that didn't hail from Innsmouth. One of the things
they had against old Captain Marsh was that he was supposed to land on
it sometimes at night when the tide was right. Maybe he did, for I dare
say the rock formation was interesting, and it's just barely possible
he was looking for pirate loot and maybe finding it; but there was talk
of his dealing with demons there. Fact is, I guess on the whole it was
really the captain that gave the bad reputation to the reef.

"That was before the big epidemic of 1846, when over half the folks
in Innsmouth was carried off. They never did quite figure out what
the trouble was, but it was probably some foreign kind of disease
brought from China or somewhere by the shipping. It surely was bad
enough--there was riots over it, and all sorts of ghastly doings that I
don't believe ever got outside of town--and it left the place in awful
shape. Never came back--there can't be more'n 300 or 400 people living
there now.

"But the real thing behind the way folks feel is simply race
prejudice--and I don't say I'm blaming those that hold it. I hate
those Innsmouth folks myself, and I wouldn't care to go to their
town. I s'pose you know--though I can see you're a Westerner by your
talk--what a lot our New England ships used to have to do with queer
ports in Africa, Asia, the South Seas, and everywhere else, and what
queer kinds of people they sometimes brought back with 'em. You've
probably heard about the Salem man that came home with a Chinese wife,
and maybe you know there's still a bunch of Fiji Islanders somewhere
around Cape Cod.

"Well, there must be something like that back of the Innsmouth people.
The place always was badly cut off from the rest of the country by
marshes and creeks, and we can't be sure about the ins and outs of
the matter; but it's pretty clear that old Captain Marsh must have
brought home some odd specimens when he had all three of his ships in
commission back in the twenties and thirties. There certainly is a
strange kind of a streak in the Innsmouth folks today--I don't know how
to explain it, but it sort of makes you crawl. You'll notice a little
in Sargent if you take his bus. Some of 'em have queer narrow heads
with flat noses and bulgy, starey eyes that never seem to shut, and
their skin ain't quite right. Rough and scabby, and the sides of their
necks are all shriveled or creased up. Get bald, too, very young. The
older fellows look the worst--fact is, I don't believe I've ever seen
a very old chap of that kind. Guess they must die of looking in the
glass! Animals hate 'em--they used to have lots of horse trouble before
autos came in.

"Nobody can ever keep track of those people, and state school officials
and census men have a devil of a time. You can bet that prying
strangers ain't welcome around Innsmouth. I've heard personally of
more'n one business or government man that's disappeared there, and
there's loose talk of one who went crazy and is out at Danvers now.
They must have fixed up some awful scare for that fellow.

"That's why I wouldn't go at night if I was you. I've never been there
and have no wish to go, but I guess a daytime trip couldn't hurt
you--even though the people hereabouts will advise you not to make it.
If you're just sightseeing, and looking for old-time stuff, Innsmouth
ought to be quite a place for you."

And so I spent part of that evening at the Newburyport Public Library
looking up data about Innsmouth. The Essex County histories on the
library shelves had very little to say, except that the town was
founded in 1643, noted for shipbuilding before the Revolution, a seat
of great marine prosperity in the early 19th century, and later a minor
factory center using the Manuxet as power. The epidemic and riots of
1846 were very sparsely treated, as if they formed a discredit to the
country.

References to decline were few, though the significance of the later
record was unmistakable. After the Civil War all industrial life was
confined to the Marsh Refining Company, and the marketing of gold
ingots formed the only remaining bit of major commerce aside from the
eternal fishing.

Most interesting of all was a glancing reference to the strange jewelry
vaguely associated with Innsmouth. It had evidently impressed the whole
countryside more than a little, for mention was made of specimens in
the museum of Miskatonic University at Arkham, and in the display room
of the Newburyport Historical Society. I resolved to see the local
sample--said to be a large, queerly-proportioned thing evidently meant
for a tiara--if it could possibly be arranged.

The librarian gave me a note of introduction to the curator of the
Society, a Miss Anna Tilton, who lived nearby, and after a brief
explanation that ancient gentlewoman was kind enough to pilot me into
the closed building, since the hour was not outrageously late. The
collection was a notable one indeed, but in my present mood I had eyes
for nothing but the bizarre object which glistened in a corner cupboard
under the electric lights.

It took no excessive sensitiveness to beauty to make me literally gasp
at the strange, unearthly splendor of the alien, opulent phantasy that
rested there on a purple velvet cushion. The longer I looked, the more
the thing fascinated me; and in this fascination there was a curiously
disturbing element hardly to be classified or accounted for. I decided
that it was the queer other-worldly quality of the art which made me
uneasy. It was as if the workmanship were that of another planet.

The patterns all hinted of remote secrets and unimaginable abysses in
time and space, and the monotonously aquatic nature of the reliefs
became almost sinister. Among these reliefs were fabulous monsters of
abhorrent grotesqueness and malignity--wholly primal and awesomely
ancestral.

At times I fancied that every contour of these blasphemous fish-frogs
was overflowing with the ultimate quintessence of unknown and inhuman
evil.

In odd contrast to the tiara's aspect was its brief and prosy history
as related by Miss Tilton. It had been pawned for a ridiculous sum at
a shop in State Street in 1873, by a drunken Innsmouth man shortly
afterward killed in a brawl.

Miss Tilton was inclined to believe that it formed part of some exotic
pirate hoard discovered by old Captain Obed Marsh. This view was surely
not weakened by the insistent offers of purchase at a high price
which the Marshes began to make as soon as they knew of its presence,
and which they repeated to this day despite the Society's unvarying
determination not to sell.

As the good lady showed me out of the building, she assured me that the
rumors of devil-worship were partly justified by a peculiar secret cult
which had gained force there and engulfed all the orthodox churches.

It was called, she said, "The Esoteric Order of Dagon," and was
undoubtedly a debased, quasi-pagan thing imported from the East a
century before, at a time when Innsmouth fisheries seemed to be going
barren. Its persistence among a simple people was quite natural in view
of the sudden and permanent return of abundantly fine fishing, and it
soon came to be the greatest influence on the town.

All this, to the pious Miss Tilton, formed an excellent reason for
shunning the ancient town of decay and desolation; but to me it was
merely a fresh incentive; and I could scarcely sleep in my small room
at the "Y" as the night wore away.

                                  II

Shortly before ten the next morning I stood with my one small valise
in front of Hammond's Drug Store in old Market Square waiting for
the Innsmouth bus. In a few moments a small motor-coach of extreme
decrepitude and dirty gray color rattled down State Street, made a
turn, and drew up at the curb beside me. I felt immediately that
it was the right one; a guess which the half-illegible sign on the
windshield--"_Arkham-Innsmouth-Newb'port_"--soon verified.

There were only three passengers--dark, unkempt men of sullen visage
and somewhat youthful cast--and when the vehicle stopped they clumsily
shambled out and began walking up State Street in a silent, almost
furtive fashion. The driver also alighted. This, I reflected, must be
the Joe Sargent mentioned by the ticket-agent; and even before I had
noticed any details there spread over me a wave of spontaneous aversion
which could be neither checked nor explained.

He was a thin, stoop-shouldered man not much under six feet tall,
dressed in shabby blue civilian clothes and wearing a frayed gray golf
cap. His age was perhaps thirty-five, but the odd, deep creases in the
sides of his neck made him seem older when one did not study his dull,
expressionless face. He had a narrow head, bulging, watery blue eyes
that seemed never to wink, a flat nose, a receding forehead and chin,
and singularly undeveloped ears. As he walked toward the bus I observed
his peculiarly shambling gait and saw that his feet were inordinately
immense. The more I studied them the more I wondered how he could buy
any shoes to fit them.

A certain greasiness about the fellow increased my dislike. He was
evidently given to working or lounging around the fish docks, and
carried with him much of their characteristic smell. Just what foreign
blood was in him I could not even guess.

I was sorry when I saw that there would be no other passengers on the
bus. Somehow I did not like the idea of riding alone with this driver.
But as the leaving time obviously approached I conquered my qualms and
followed the man aboard, extending him a dollar bill and murmuring the
single word "Innsmouth."

At length the decrepit vehicle started with a jerk, and rattled noisily
past the old brick buildings of State Street amidst a cloud of vapor
from the exhaust.

The day was warm and sunny, but the landscape of sand, sedge-grass,
and stunted shrubbery became more and more desolate as we proceeded.
Out the window I could see the blue water and the sandy line of Plum
Island, and we presently drew very near the beach as our narrow road
veered off from the main highway to Rowley and Ipswich.

At last we lost sight of Plum Island and saw the vast expanse of the
open Atlantic on our left. Our narrow course began to climb steeply,
and I felt a singular sense of disquiet in looking at the lonely crest
ahead where the rutted roadway met the sky. It was as if the bus were
about to keep on its ascent leaving the sane earth altogether and
merging with the unknown arcana of upper air and cryptical sky. The
smell of the sea took on ominous implications, and the silent driver's
bent, rigid back and narrow head became more and more hateful. As I
looked at him I saw that the back of his head was almost as hairless
as his face, having only a few straggling yellow strands upon a gray
scabrous surface.

Then we reached the crest and beheld the outspread valley beyond,
where the Manuxet joins the sea just north of the long line of cliffs
that culminate in Kingsport Head; all my attention was captured by the
nearer panorama just below me. I had, I realized, come face to face
with rumor-shadowed Innsmouth.

It was a town of wide extent and dense construction, yet one with a
portentous dearth of visible life. The vast huddle of sagging gambrel
roofs and peaked gables conveyed with offensive clearness the idea
of wormy decay, and as we approached along the now descending road I
could see that many roofs had wholly caved in. Stretching inland I saw
the rusted, grass-grown line of the abandoned railway, with leaning
telegraph-poles now devoid of wires.

Here and there the ruins of wharves jutted out from the shore to end
in indeterminate rottenness, those farthest south seeming the most
decayed. And far out at sea, despite a high tide, I glimpsed a long,
black line scarcely rising above the water yet carrying a suggestion of
odd latent malignancy. This, I knew, must be Devil Reef. As I looked,
a subtle, curious sense of beckoning seemed superadded to the grim
repulsion; and oddly enough, I found this overtone more disturbing than
the primary impression.

As the bus reached a lower level I began to catch the steady note of
a waterfall through the unnatural stillness. The leaning, unpainted
houses grew thicker, lined both sides of the road, and displayed more
urban tendencies than did those we were leaving behind. The panorama
ahead had contracted to a street scene, and in spots I could see
where a cobblestone pavement and stretches of brick sidewalk had
formerly existed. All the houses were apparently deserted, and there
were occasional gaps where tumbledown chimneys and cellar walls told
of buildings that had collapsed. Pervading everything was the most
nauseous fishy odor imaginable.

And I was not to reach my destination without one other very strong
impression of poignantly disagreeable quality. The bus had come to a
sort of open concourse or radial point with churches on two sides and
the bedraggled remains of a circular green in the center, and I was
looking at a large pillared hall on the right-hand junction ahead. The
structure's once white paint was now gray and peeling, and the black
and gold sign on the pediment was so faded that I could only with
difficulty make out the words "Esoteric Order of Dagon."

The door of the church basement was open, revealing a rectangle of
blackness inside. And as I looked, a certain object crossed or seemed
to cross that dark rectangle; burning into my brain a momentary
conception of nightmare which was all the more maddening because
analysis could not show a single nightmarish quality in it.

It was a living object--the first except the driver that I had seen
since entering the compact part of the town--and had I been in a
steadier mood I would have found nothing whatever of terror in it.
Clearly, as I realized a moment later, it was the pastor; clad in
some peculiar vestments doubtless introduced since the Order of Dagon
had modified the ritual of the local churches. The thing which had
probably caught my first subconscious glance and supplied the touch of
bizarre horror was the tall tiara he wore; an almost exact duplicate
of the one Miss Tilton had shown me the previous evening. This, acting
on my imagination, had supplied namelessly sinister qualities to the
indeterminate face and robed, shambling form beneath it.

A very thin sprinkling of repellent-looking youngish people now became
visible on the sidewalks--lone individuals, and silent knots of two
or three. The lower floors of the crumbling houses sometimes harbored
small shops with dingy signs, and I noticed a parked truck or two as we
rattled along. The sound of waterfalls became more and more distinct,
and presently I saw a fairly deep river-gorge ahead, spanned by a wide,
iron-railed highway bridge beyond which a large square opened out. Then
we rolled into the large semicircular square across the river and drew
up on the right-hand side in front of a tall, cupola-crowned building
with remnants of yellow paint and with a half-effaced sign proclaiming
it to be the Gilman House.

I was glad to get out of that bus, and at once proceeded to check
my valise in the shabby hotel lobby. There was only one person in
sight--an elderly man without what I had come to call the "Innsmouth
look"--and I decided not to ask him any of the questions which bothered
me; remembering that odd things had been noticed in this hotel.
Instead, I strolled out on the square, from which the bus had already
gone, and studied the scene minutely and appraisingly.

For some reason or other I chose to make my first inquiries at
the chain grocery, whose personnel was not likely to be native to
Innsmouth. I found a solitary boy of about seventeen in charge, and was
pleased to note the brightness and affability which promised cheerful
information. He seemed exceptionally eager to talk, and I soon gathered
that he did not like the place, its fishy smell, or its furtive people.
His family did not like him to work in Innsmouth, but the chain had
transferred him there and he did not wish to give up his job.

There was, he said, no public library or chamber of commerce in
Innsmouth, but I could probably find my way about. The street I had
come down was Federal. West of that were the fine old residence
streets--Broad, Washington, Lafayette, and Adams--and east of it were
the shoreward slums.

Certain spots were almost forbidden territory, as he had learned at
considerable cost. One must not, for example, linger much around the
Marsh refinery, or around any of the still used churches, or around the
pillared Order of Dagon Hall at New Church Green. Those churches were
very odd--all violently disavowed by their respective denominations
elsewhere, and apparently using the queerest kind of ceremonials and
clerical vestments.

As for the Innsmouth people--the youth hardly knew what to make of
them. Their appearance--especially those staring, unwinking eyes which
one never saw shut--was certainly shocking enough--and their voices
were disgusting. It was awful to hear them chanting in their churches
at night, and especially during their main festivals or revivals, which
fell twice a year on April 30 and October 31.

They were very fond of the water, and swam a great deal in both river
and harbor. Swimming races out to Devil Reef were very common, and
everyone in sight seemed well able to share in this arduous sport.

It would be of no use, my informant said, to ask the natives anything
about the place. The only one who would talk was a very aged but
normal-looking man who lived at the poorhouse on the north rim of the
town and spent his time walking about or lounging around the fire
station. This hoary character, Zadok Allen, was 96 years old and
somewhat touched in the head, besides being the town drunkard. He was a
strange, furtive creature who constantly looked over his shoulder as
if afraid of something, and when sober could not be persuaded to talk
at all with strangers. He was, however, unable to resist any offer of
his favorite poison; and once drunk would furnish the most astonishing
fragments of whispered reminiscence.

After all, though, little useful data could be gained from him; since
his stories were all insane, incomplete hints of impossible marvels and
horrors which could have no source save in his own distorted fancy.
Nobody ever believed him, but the natives did not like him to drink
and talk with any strangers; and it was not always safe to be seen
questioning him. It was probably from him that some of the wildest
popular whispers and delusions were derived.

The Marshes, together with the other three gently bred families of the
town--the Waites, the Gilmans, and the Eliots--were all very retiring.
They lived in immense houses along Washington Street, and several were
reputed to harbor in concealment certain kinsfolk whose personal aspect
forbade public view, and whose deaths had been reported and recorded.

Warning me that most of the street signs were down, the youth drew for
my benefit a rough but ample and painstaking sketch map of the town's
salient features. After a moment's study I felt sure that it would be
of great help, and pocketed it with profuse thanks.

Thus began my systematic though half-bewildered tour of Innsmouth's
narrow, shadow-blighted ways. Crossing the bridge and turning toward
the roar of the lower falls, I passed close to the Marsh refinery,
which seemed oddly free from the noise of industry. This building
stood on the steep river bluff near a bridge and an open confluence of
streets which I took to be the earliest civic center, displaced after
the Revolution by the present Town Square.

Re-crossing the gorge on the Main Street bridge, I struck a region of
utter desertion which somehow made me shudder. Collapsing huddles of
gambrel roofs formed a jagged and fantastic skyline, above which rose
the ghoulish, decapitated steeple of an ancient church.

Fish Street was as deserted as Main, though it differed in having many
brick and stone warehouses still in excellent shape. Water Street
was almost its duplicate, save that there were great seaward gaps
where wharves had been. Not a living thing did I see, except for the
scattered fishermen on the distant breakwater, and not a sound did I
hear save the lapping of the harbor tides and the roar of the falls in
the Manuxet.

I kept north along Main to Martin, then turning inland, crossing
Federal Street safely north of the Green, and entering the decayed
patrician neighborhood of northern Broad, Washington, Lafayette, and
Adams Streets. Following Washington Street toward the river, I now
faced a zone of former industry and commerce; noting the ruins of a
factory ahead, and seeing others, with the traces of an old railway
station and covered railway bridge beyond up the gorge on my right.

The uncertain bridge now before me was posted with a warning sign,
but I took the risk and crossed again to the south bank where traces
of life reappeared. Furtive, shambling creatures stared cryptically
in my direction, and more normal faces eyed me coldly and curiously.
Innsmouth was rapidly becoming intolerable, and I turned down Paine
Street toward the Square in the hope of getting some vehicle to take me
to Arkham before the still-distant starting time of that sinister bus.

It was then that I saw the tumbledown fire station on my left,
and noticed the red-faced, bushy-bearded, watery-eyed old man in
nondescript rags who sat on a bench in front of it talking with a pair
of unkempt but not abnormal-looking firemen. This, of course, must be
Zadok Allen, the half-crazed, liquorish non-agenarian whose tales of
old Innsmouth and its shadow were so hideous and incredible.

                                  III

I had been assured that the old man could do nothing but hint at wild,
disjointed, and incredible legends, and I had been warned that the
natives made it unsafe to be seen talking with him; yet the thought
of this aged witness to the town's decay, with memories going back to
the early days of ships and factories, was a _lure_ that no amount
of reason could make me resist. Curiosity flared up beyond sense and
caution, and in my youthful egotism I fancied I might be able to sift
a nucleus of real history from the confused, extravagant outpouring I
would probably extract with the aid of whiskey.

A quart bottle of such was easily, though not cheaply, obtained in the
rear of a dingy variety-store just off the Square in Eliot Street.

Re-entering the Square I saw that luck was with me; for--shuffling
out of Paine Street around the corner of the Gilman House--I glimpsed
nothing less than the tall, lean, tattered form of old Zadok Allen
himself. In accordance with my plan, I attracted his attention by
brandishing my newly-purchased bottle; and soon realized that he had
begun to shuffle wistfully after me as I turned into Waite Street on my
way to the most deserted region I could think of. Before I reached Main
Street I could hear a faint and wheezy "Hey, Mister!" behind me, and I
presently allowed the old man to catch up and take copious pulls from
the quart bottle.

I began putting out feelers as we walked along to Water Street and
turned southward amidst the omnipresent desolation and crazily tilted
ruins, but found that the aged tongue did not loosen as quickly
as I had expected. At length I saw a grass-grown opening toward
the sea between crumbling brick walls, with the weedy length of an
earth-and-masonry wharf projecting beyond. Piles of moss-covered stones
near the water promised tolerable seats, and the scene was sheltered
from all possible view by a ruined warehouse on the north.

About four hours remained for conversation if I were to catch the eight
o'clock coach for Arkham, and I began to dole out more liquor to the
ancient tippler; meanwhile eating my own frugal lunch. In my donations
I was careful not to overshoot the mark, for I did not wish Zadok's
vinous garrulousness to pass into a stupor. After an hour his furtive
taciturnity showed signs of disappearing, and something or other had
caused his wandering gaze to light on the low, distant line of Devil
Reef, then showing plainly and almost fascinatingly above the waves. He
bent toward me, took hold of my coat lapel, and hissed out some hints
that could not be mistaken.

"Thar's whar it all begun--that cursed place of all wickedness whar
the deep water starts. Gate o' hell--sheer drop daown to a bottom no
saoundin'-line kin tech. Ol' Cap'n Obed done it--him that faound aout
more'n was good fer him in the Saouth Sea islands.

"Never was nobody like Cap'n Obed--old limb o' Satan! Heh, heh! I kin
mind him a-tellin' abaout furren parts, an' callin' all the folks
stupid fer goin' to Christian meetin' an' bearin' their burdens meek
an' lowly. Says they'd orter git better gods like some o' the folks
in the Injies--gods as ud bring 'em good fishin' in return fer their
sacrifices, an' ud reely answer folks's prayers.

"Matt Eliot, his fust mate, talked a lot, too, only he was agin'
folks's doin' any heathen things. Told abaout an island east of
Othaheite whar they was a lot o' stone ruins older'n anybody knew
anything abaout, kind o' like them on Ponape, in the Carolines, but
with carvin's of faces that looked like the big statues on Easter
Island. They was a little volcanic island near thar, too, whar they was
other ruins with diff'rent carvin's--ruins all wore away like they'd
ben under the sea onct, an' with picters of awful monsters all over 'em.

"Wal, Sir, Matt he says the natives araound thar had all the fish they
cud ketch, an' sported bracelets an' armlets an' head rigs made aout
of a queer kind o' gold an' covered with picters o' monsters jest like
the ones carved over the ruins on the little island--sorter fishlike
frogs or froglike fishes that was drawed in all kinds o' positions
like they was human bein's. Nobody cud git aout o' them whar they got
all the stuff, an' all the other natives wondered haow they managed to
find fish in plenty even when the very next islands had lean pickin's.
Matt he got to wonderin' too, an' so did Cap'n Obed. Obed, he notices,
besides, that lots of the han'some young folks ud drop aout o' sight
fer good from year to year, an' that they wan't many old folk araound.
Also, he thinks some of the folks looks durned queer even fer Kanakys.

"It took Obed to git the truth aout o' them heathens. I dun't know haow
he done it, but he begun by tradin' fer the gold-like things they wore.
Ast 'em whar they come from, an' ef they cud git more, an' finally
wormed the story aout o' the old chief--Walakea, they called him.
Nobody but Obed ud ever a believed the old yeller devil, but the Cap'n
cud read folks like they was books. Heh, heh! Nobody never believes me
naow when I tell 'em, an I dun't s'pose you will, young feller--though
come to look at ye, ye hev kind o' got them sharp-readin' eyes like
Obed had."

The old man's whisper grew fainter, and I found myself shuddering at
the terrible and sincere portentousness of his intonation, even though
I knew his tale could be nothing but drunken phantasy.

"Wal, Sir, Obed he larnt that they's things on this arth as most folks
never heard abaout--an' wouldn't believe ef they did hear. It seems
these Kanakys was sacrificin' heaps o' their young men an' maidens to
some kind o' god-things that lived under the sea, an' gittin' all kinds
o' favors in return. They met the things on the little islet with the
queer ruins, an' it seems them awful picters o' frog-fish monsters was
supposed to be picters o' these things. Mebbe they was the kind o'
critters as got all the mermaids stories an' sech started. They had all
kinds o' cities on the sea-bottom, an' this island was heaved up from
thar. Seems they was some of the things alive in the stone buildin's
when the island come up sudden to the surface. That's haow the Kanakys
got wind they was daown thar. Made sign-talk as soon as they got over
bein' skeert, an' pieced up a bargain afore long.

"Them things liked human sacrifices. Had had 'em ages afore, but
lost track o' the upper world arter a time. What they done to the
victims it ain't fer me to say, an' I guess Obed wa'n't none too
sharp abaout askin'. But it was all right with the heathens, because
they'd ben havin' a hard time an' was desp'rate abaout everything.
They give a sarten number o' young folks to the sea-things twict every
year--May-Eve an' Hallowe'en--reg'lar as cud be. Also give some o' the
carved knick-knacks they made. What the things agreed to give in return
was a plenty o' fish--they druv 'em in from all over the sea--an' a few
gold-like things naow an' then.

"When it come to matin' with them toad-lookin' fishes, the Kanakys
kind o' balked, but finally they larnt something as put a new face
on the matter. Seems that human folks has got a kind o' relation to
sech water-beasts--that everything alive come aout o' the water onct,
an' only needs a little change to go back agin. Them things told the
Kanakys that ef they mixed bloods there'd be children as ud look human
at fust, but later turn more'n more like the things, till finally
they'd take to the water an' jine the main lot o' things daown thar.
An' this is the important part, young feller--them as turned into fish
things an' went into the water _wouldn't never die_. Them things never
died excep' they was kilt violent.

"Wal, Sir, it seems by the time Obed knowed them islanders they was all
full o' fish blood from them deep-water things. When they got old an'
begun to show it, they was kep' hid until they felt like takin' to the
water an' quittin' the place. Some was more teched than others, an'
some never did change quite enough to take to the water; but mostly
they turned aout jest the way them things said. Them as was born more
like the things changed arly, but them as was nearly human sometimes
stayed on the island till they was past seventy, though they'd usually
go daown under fer trial trips afore that. Folks as had took to the
water, gen'rally come back a good deal to visit, so's a man ud often be
a-talkin' to his own five-times-great-grandfather, who'd left the dry
land a couple o' hundred years or so afore.

"Everybody got aout o' the idee o' dyin'--excep' in canoe wars with
the other islanders, or as sacrifices to the sea-gods daown below, or
from snake-bite or plague or sharp gallopin' ailments or somethin'
afore they cud take to the water--but simply looked forrad to a kind
o' change that wa'n't a bit horrible arter a while. They thought what
they'd got was well wuth all they'd had to give up--an' I guess Obed
kind o' come to think the same hisself when he'd chewed over old
Walakea's story a bit. Walakea, though, was one of the few as hadn't
got none of the fish blood--bein' of a royal line that intermarried
with royal lines on other islands.

"Walakea give him a funny kind o' thingumajig made aout o' lead or
something, that he said ud bring up the fish things from any place in
the water whar they might be a nest of 'em. The idee was to drop it
daown with the right kind o' prayers an' sech. Walakea allaowed as was
the things was scattered all over the world, so's anybody that looked
abaout cud find a nest an' bring 'em up ef they was wanted.

"Matt he didn't like this business at all, an' wanted Obed shud keep
away from the island; but the Cap'n was sharp fer gain, an' faound
he cud git them gold-like things so cheap it ud pay him to make a
specialty of 'em.

"Things went on that way fer years, an' Obed got enough o' that
gold-like stuff to make him start the refinery in Waite's old run-daown
fullin' mill.

"Wall, come abaout 'thutty-eight--when I was seven year' old--Obed he
faound the island people all wiped aout between v'yages. Seems the
other islanders had got wind o' what was goin' on, an' had took matters
into their own hands. S'pose they must a had, arter all, them old magic
signs as the sea things says was the only things they was afeard of. No
tellin' what any o' them Kanakys will chance to git a holt of when the
sea-bottom throws up some island with ruins older'n the deluge. Pious
cusses, these was--they didn't leave nothin' standin' on either the
main island or the little volcanic islet excep' what parts of the ruins
was too big to knock daown.

"That naturally hit Obed pretty hard, seein' as his normal trade
was doin' very poor. It hit the whole of Innsmouth, too, because in
seafarin' days what profited the master of a ship gen'lly profited the
crew proportionate. Most o' the folks araound the taown took the hard
times kind o' sheeplike an' resigned, but they was in bad shape because
the fishin' was peterin' aout an' the mills wa'n't doin' none too well.

"Then's the time Obed he begun a-cursin' at the folks fer bein' dull
sheep an' prayin' to a Christian heaven as didn't help 'em none. He
told 'em he'd knowed of folks as prayed to gods that give somethin' ye
reely need, an' says ef a good bunch o' men ud stand by him, he cud
mebbe git a holt o' sarten paowers as ud bring plenty o' fish an' quite
a bit o' gold."

Here the old man faltered, mumbled, and lapsed into a moody and
apprehensive silence; glancing nervously over his shoulder and then
turning back to stare fascinatedly at the distant black reef. When
I spoke to him he did not answer, so I knew I would have to let him
finish the bottle. He licked its nose and slipped it into his pocket,
then beginning to nod and whisper softly to himself. I bent close to
catch any articulate words he might utter, and thought I saw a sardonic
smile behind the stained, bushy whiskers. Yes--he was really forming
words, and I could grasp a fair proportion of them.

"Poor Matt--Matt he allus was agin it--tried to line up the folks on
his side, an' had long talks with the preachers--no use--they run
the Congregational parson aout o' taown, an' the Methodist feller
quit--never did see Resolved Babcock, the Baptist parson, agin--Wrath
o' Jehovy--I was a mighty little critter, but I heerd what I heerd an'
seen what I seen--Dagon an' Ashtoreth--Belial an' Beëlzebub--Golden
Caff an' the idols o' Canaan an' the Philistines--Babylonish
abominations--_Mene, mene, tekel, upharsin_--"

He stopped again, and from the look in his watery blue eyes I feared he
was close to a stupor after all. But when I gently shook his shoulder
he turned on me with astonishing alertness and snapped out some more
obscure phrases.

"Dun't believe me, hey? Heh, heh, heh--then just tell me, young feller,
why Cap'n Obed an' twenty odd other folks used to row aout to Devil
Reef in the dead o' night an' chant things so laoud ye cud hear 'em
all over taown when the wind was right? Tell me that, hey? An' tell
me why Obed was allus droppin' heavy things daown into the deep water
t'other side o' the reef whar the bottom shoots daown like a cliff
lower'n ye kin saound? Tell me what he done with that funny-shaped lead
thingumajig as Walakea give him? Hey, boy?"

The watery blue eyes were almost savage and maniacal now, and the dirty
white beard bristled electrically. Old Zadok probably saw me shrink
back, for he began to cackle evilly.

"Heh, heh, heh, heh! Beginnin' to see, hey? Haow abaout the night I
took my pa's ship's glass up to a cupalo an' seed the reef a-bristlin'
thick with shapes that dove off quick soon's the moon riz? Obed an' the
folks was in a dory, but them shapes dove off the far side into the
deep water an' never come up.... Haow'd ye like to be a little shaver
alone up in a cupalo a-watchin' shapes _as wa'n't human shapes_?...
Hey?... Heh, heh, heh, heh...."

       *       *       *       *       *

The old man was getting hysterical, and I began to shiver with a
nameless alarm. He laid a gnarled claw on my shoulder, and it seemed to
me that its shaking was not altogether that of mirth.

"S'pose one night ye seed somethin' heavy heaved offen Obed's dory
beyond the reef, an' then larned nex' day a young feller was missin'
from home? Hey? Did anybody ever see hide or hair o' Hiram Gilman agin?
Did they? An' Nick Pierce, an' Luelly Waite, an' Adoniram Saouthwick,
an' Henry Garrison? Hey? Heh, heh....

"Wal, Sir, that was the time Obed begun to git on his feet agin. Folks
see his three darters a-wearin' gold-like things as nobody'd never see
on 'em afore, an' smoke started comin' aout o' the refin'ry chimbly.
Other folks was prosp'rin', too--fish began to swarm into the harbor
fit to kill, an' heaven knows what sized cargoes we begun to ship aout
to Newb'ryport, Arkham, an' Boston. 'Twas then Obed got the ol' branch
railrud put through.

"Remember, I ain't sayin' Obed was set on hevin' things jest like
they was on that Kanaky isle. I dun't think he aimed at fust to do
no mixin', nor raise no young-uns to take to the water an' turn into
fishes with etarnal life. He wanted them gold things, an' was willin'
to pay heavy, an' I guess the _others_ was satisfied fer a while....

"Come in 'forty-six the taown done some lookin' an' thinkin' fer
itself. Too many folks missin'--too much wild preachin' at meetin' of a
Sunday--too much talk abaout that reef. I guess I done a bit by tellin'
Selectman Mowry what I see from the cupalo. They was a party one night
as follered Obed's craowd aout to the reef, an' I heerd shots betwixt
the dories. Nex' day Obed an' thutty-two others was in jail, with
everybody a-wonderin' jest what was afoot an' jest what charge agin
'em cud be got to holt. God, ef anybody'd looked ahead ... a couple
o' weeks later, when nothin' had ben throwed into the sea fer that
long...."

Zadok was showing signs of fright and exhaustion, and I let him keep
silence for a while, though glancing apprehensively at my watch. The
tide had turned and was coming in now, and the sound of the waves
seemed to arouse him.

"That awful night.... I seed 'em.... I was up in the cupalo ... hordes
of 'em ... swarms of 'em ... all over the reef an' swimmin' up the
harbor into the Manuxet.... God, what happened in the streets of
Innsmouth that night ... they rattled our door, but pa wouldn't open
... then he clumb aout the kitchen winder with his musket to find
Selectman Mowry an' see what he cud do.... Maounds o' the dead an'
the dyin' ... shots an' screams ... shaoutin' in Ol' Squar an' Taown
Squar an' New Church Green ... jail throwed open ... proclamation ...
treason ... called it the plague when folks come in an' faound haff our
people missin' ... nobody left but them as ud jine in with Obed an'
them things or else keep quiet ... never heerd o' my pa no more...."

The old man was panting, and perspiring profusely. His grip on my
shoulder tightened.

"Everything cleaned up in the mornin'--but they was _traces_.... Obed
he kinder takes charge an' says things is goin' to be changed ...
_others'll_ worship with us at meetin'-time, an' sarten haouses hez got
to entertain _guests_ ... _they_ wanted to mix like they done with the
Kanakys, an' he fer one didn't feel baound to stop 'em. Far gone, was
Obed ... jest like a crazy man on the subjeck. He says they brung us
fish an' treasure, an' shud hev what they hankered arter....

"Nothin' was to be diff'runt on the aoutside, only we was to keep shy
o' strangers ef we knowed what was good fer us. We all hed to take the
Oath o' Dagon, an' later on they was secon' an' third Oaths that some
of us took. Them as ud help special, ud git special rewards--gold an'
sech. No use balkin', fer they was millions of 'em daown thar. They'd
ruther not start risin' an' wipin' aout humankind, but ef they was gave
away an' forced to, they cud do a lot toward jest that.

"Yield up enough sacrifices an' savage knick-knacks an' harborage in
the taown when they wanted it, an' they'd let well enough alone. All in
the band of the faithful--Order o' Dagon--an' the children shud never
die, but go back to the Mother Hydra an' Father Dagon what we all come
from onct--_Iä! Iä! Cthulhu fhtagn! Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh
wgahnagl fhtagn_--"

Old Zadok began to moan now, and tears were coursing down his
channelled cheeks into the depths of his beard.

"God, what I seen senct I was fifteen year' old--_Mene, mene,
tekel, upharsin!_--the folks as was missin', an' them as kilt
theirselves--them as told things in Arkham or Ipswich or sech places
was all called crazy, like you're a-callin' me right naow--but God,
what I seen--they'd a kilt me long ago fer what I know, only I'd
took the fust an' secon' Oaths o' Dagon offen Obed, so was pertected
unlessen a jury of 'em proved I told things knowin' an' delib'rit ...
but I wudn't take the third Oath--I'd a died ruther'n take that--

"It got wuss araound Civil War time, _when children born senct
'forty-six begun to grow up_--some of 'em, that is. I was
afeard--never did no pryin' arter that awful night, an' never see one
o'--_them_--clost to in all my life. That is, never no full-blooded
one. Barnabas Marsh that runs the refin'ry naow is Obed's grandson by
his fust wife--son of Onesiphorus, his eldest son, _but his mother was
another o' them as wa'n't never seed aoutdoors_.

"Right naow Barnabas is abaout changed. Can't shet his eyes no more,
an' is all aout o' shape. They say he still wears clothes, but he'll
take to the water soon." ...

The sound of the incoming tide was now very insistent, and little by
little it seemed to change the old man's mood from maudlin tearfulness
to watchful fear. He would pause now and then to renew those nervous
glances over his shoulder or out toward the reef, and despite the wild
absurdity of his tale, I could not help beginning to share his vague
apprehensiveness. Zadok now grew shriller, and seemed to be trying to
whip up his courage with louder speech.

"Hey, yew, why dun't ye say somethin'? Haow'd ye like to be livin' in a
taown like this, with everything a-rottin' an' a-dyin', an' boarded-up
monsters crawlin' an' bleatin' an' barkin' an' hoppin' araoun' black
cellars an' attics every way ye turn? Hey? Wal, Sir, _let me tell ye
that aint the wust_!"

Zadok was really screaming now, and the mad frenzy of his voice
disturbed me more than I care to own.

"Curse ye, dun't set thar a-starin' at me with them eyes--I tell Obed
Marsh he's in hell, an' hez got to stay thar! Heh, heh ... in hell, I
says! Can't git me--I hain't done nothin' nor told nobody nothin'--

"Oh, you, young feller? Wal, even ef I hain't told nobody nothin' yet,
I'm a-goin' to naow! Yew jest set still an' listen to me, boy--this is
what I ain't never told nobody.... I says I didn't get to do no pryin'
arter that night--_but I found things aout jest the same_!

"Yew want to know what the reel horror is, hey? Wal, it's this--it
ain't what them fish devils _hez done, but what they're a-goin' to
do_! They're a-bringin' things up aout o' whar they come from into the
taown--ben doin' it fer years, an' slackenin' up lately. Them haouses
north o' the river betwixt Water an' Main Streets is full of 'em--them
devils _an' what they brung_--an' when they git ready ... I say, _when
they git ready_ ... ever hear tell of a _shoggoth_?....

"Hey, d'ye hear me? I tell ye I _know what them things be--I seen 'em
one night when_.... EH-AHHHH--AH! E'YAAHHHH...."

The hideous suddenness and inhuman frightfulness of the old man's
shriek almost made me faint. His eyes, looking past me toward the
malodorous sea, were positively starting from his head; while his
face was a mask of fear worthy of Greek tragedy. His bony claw dug
monstrously into my shoulder, and he made no motion as I turned my head
to look at whatever he had glimpsed.

There was nothing that I could see. Only the incoming tide, with
perhaps one set of ripples more local than the long-flung line of
breakers. But now Zadok was shaking me, and I turned back to watch the
melting of that fear-frozen face into a chaos of twitching eyelids and
mumbling gums. Presently his voice came back--albeit as a trembling
whisper.

"_Git aout o' here!_ Git aout o' here! _They seen us_--git aout
fer your life! Dun't wait fer nothin'--_they know naow_--Run fer
it--quick--_aout o' this taown_--"

Another heavy wave dashed against the loosening masonry of the bygone
wharf, and changed the mad ancient's whisper to another inhuman and
blood-curdling scream.

"E-YAAAHHHH!...

"YHAAAAAAAA!..."

Before I could recover my scattered wits he had relaxed his clutch
on my shoulder and dashed wildly inland toward the street, reeling
northward around the ruined warehouse wall.

I glanced back at the sea, but there was nothing there. And when I
reached Water Street and looked along it toward the north there was no
remaining trace of Zadok Allen.

                                  IV

I can hardly describe the mood in which I was left by this harrowing
episode--an episode at once mad and pitiful, grotesque and terrifying.
The grocery boy had prepared me for it, yet the reality left me none
the less bewildered and disturbed. Puerile though the story was, old
Zadok's insane earnestness and horror had communicated to me a mounting
unrest which joined with my earlier sense of loathing for the town and
its blight of intangible shadow.

The hour had grown perilously late--my watch said 7:15, and the Arkham
bus left Town Square at eight--so I tried to give my thoughts as
neutral and practical a cast as possible, meanwhile walking rapidly
through the deserted streets of gaping roofs and leaning houses toward
the hotel where I had checked my valise and would find my bus.

Studying the grocery youth's map and seeking a route I had not
traversed before, I chose Marsh Street instead of State for my approach
to Town Square. Near the corner of Fall Street I began to see scattered
groups of furtive whisperers, and when I finally reached the Square I
saw that almost all the loiterers were congregated around the door of
the Gilman House. It seemed as if many bulging, watery, unwinking eyes
looked oddly at me as I claimed my valise in the lobby, and I hoped
that none of these unpleasant creatures would be my fellow-passengers
on the coach.

The bus, rather early, rattled in with three passengers somewhat
before eight, and an evil-looking fellow on the sidewalk muttered a
few indistinguishable words to the driver. I was, it appeared, in very
bad luck. There had been something wrong with the engine, despite the
excellent time made from Newburyport, and the bus could not complete
the journey to Arkham. No, it could not possibly be repaired that
night, nor was there any other way of getting transportation out of
Innsmouth, either to Arkham or elsewhere. Sargent was sorry, but I
would have to stop over at the Gilman. Probably the clerk would make
the price easy for me, but there was nothing else to do. Almost dazed
by this sudden obstacle, and violently dreading the fall of night in
this decaying and half-unlighted town, I left the bus and reentered
the hotel lobby; where the sullen, queer-looking night clerk told me I
could have Room 428 on next the top floor--large, but without running
water--for a dollar.

Despite what I had heard of this hotel in Newburyport, I signed the
register, paid my dollar, let the clerk take my valise, and followed
that sour, solitary attendant up three creaking flights of stairs past
dusty corridors which seemed wholly devoid of life. My room, a dismal
rear one with two windows and bare, cheap furnishings, over-looked
a dingy courtyard otherwise hemmed in by low, deserted brick blocks,
and commanded a view of decrepit westward-stretching roofs with a
marshy countryside beyond. At the end of the corridor was a bathroom--a
discouraging relique with ancient marble bowl, tin tub, faint electric
light, and musty wooden panelling around all the plumbing fixtures.

As twilight deepened I turned on the one feeble electric bulb over the
cheap, iron-framed bed, and tried as best I could to read. I felt it
advisable to keep my mind wholesomely occupied, for it would not do
to brood over the abnormalities of this ancient, blight-shadowed town
while I was still within its borders. The insane yarn I had heard from
the aged drunkard did not promise very pleasant dreams, and I felt I
must keep the image of his wild, watery eyes as far as possible from my
imagination.

Another thing that disturbed me was the absence of a bolt on the door
of my room. One had been there, as marks clearly showed, but there
were signs of recent removal. No doubt it had become out of order,
like so many other things in this decrepit edifice. In my nervousness
I looked around and discovered a bolt on the clothespress which seemed
to be of the same size, judging from the marks, as the one formerly on
the door. To gain a partial relief from the general tension I busied
myself by transferring this hardware to the vacant place with the aid
of a handy three-in-one device including a screw-driver which I kept
on my keyring. The bolt fitted perfectly, and I was somewhat relieved
when I knew that I could shoot it firmly upon retiring. There were
adequate bolts on the two lateral doors to connecting rooms, and these
I proceeded to fasten.

I did not undress, but decided to read till I was sleepy and then
lie down with only my coat, collar, and shoes off. Taking a pocket
flashlight from my valise, I placed it in my trousers, so that I
could read my watch if I woke up later in the dark. Drowsiness,
however, did not come; and when I stopped to analyze my thoughts I
found to my disquiet that I was really unconsciously listening for
something--listening for something which I dreaded but could not name.

At length, feeling a fatigue which had nothing of drowsiness in it, I
bolted the newly outfitted hall door, turned off the light, and threw
myself down on the hard, uneven bed--coat, collar, shoes, and all. In
the darkness every faint noise of the night seemed magnified, and a
flood of doubly unpleasant thoughts swept over me. I was sorry I had
put out the light, yet was too tired to rise and turn it on again.
Then, after a long, dreary interval, and prefaced by a fresh creaking
of stairs and corridor, there came that soft, damnably unmistakable
sound which seemed like a malign fulfilment of all my apprehensions.
Without the least shadow of a doubt, the lock on my hall door was being
tried--cautiously, furtively, tentatively--with a key.

The change in the menace from vague premonition to immediate reality
was a profound shock, and fell upon me with the force of a genuine
blow. It never once occurred to me that the fumbling might be a mere
mistake. Malign purpose was all I could think of, and I kept deathly
quiet, awaiting the would-be intruder's next move.

After a time the cautious rattling ceased, and I heard the room to the
north entered with a pass key. Then the lock of the connecting door to
my room was softly tried. The bolt held, of course, and I heard the
floor creak as the prowler left the room. After a moment there came
another soft rattling, and I knew that the room to the south of me was
being entered. Again a furtive trying of a bolted connecting door,
and again a receding creaking. This time the creaking went along the
hall and down the stairs, so I knew that the prowler had realized the
bolted condition of my doors and was giving up his attempt for a time.

_The one thing to do was to get out of that hotel alive as quickly as I
could, and through some channel other than the front stairs and lobby!_

Rising softly and throwing my flashlight on the switch, I sought
to light the bulb over my bed in order to choose and pocket some
belongings for a swift, valiseless flight. Nothing, however, happened;
and I saw that the power had been cut off. So, filling my pockets
with the flashlight's aid, I put on my hat and tiptoed to the
windows to consider chances of descent. Despite the state's safety
regulations there was no fire escape on this side of the hotel, and
I saw that my windows commanded only a sheer three-story drop to the
cobbled courtyard. On the right and left, however, some ancient brick
business blocks abutted on the hotel; their slant roofs coming up to a
reasonable jumping distance from my fourth-story level. To reach either
of these lines of buildings I would have to be in a room two doors
from my own--in one case on the north and in the other case on the
south--and my mind instantly set to work calculating what chances I had
of making the transfer.

First, I reinforced my own outer door by pushing the bureau against
it--little by little, in order to make a minimum of sound. Then,
gathering from the grocery boy's map that the best route out of town
was southward, I glanced first at the connecting door on the south
side of the room. It was designed to open in my direction, hence I
saw--after drawing the bolt and finding other fastenings in place--it
was not a favorable one for forcing. Accordingly abandoning it as a
route, I cautiously moved the bedstead against it to hamper any attack
which might be made on it later from the next room. The door on the
north was hung to open away from me, and this--though a test proved
it to be locked or bolted from the other side--I knew must be my
route. If I could gain the roofs of the buildings in Paine Street and
descend successfully to the ground level, I might perhaps dart through
the courtyard and the adjacent or opposite buildings to Washington
or Bates--or else emerge in Paine and edge around southward into
Washington. In any case, I would aim to strike Washington somehow and
get quickly out of the Town Square region. My preference would be to
avoid Paine, since the fire station there might be open all night.

I was irresolutely speculating on when I had better attack the
northward door, and on how I could least audibly manage it, when I
noticed that the vague noises underfoot had given place to a fresh and
heavier creaking of the stairs. A wavering flicker of light showed
through my transom, and the boards of the corridor began to groan with
a ponderous load. Muffled sounds of possible vocal origin approached,
and at length a firm knock came at my outer door.

For a moment I simply held my breath and waited. Eternities
seemed to elapse, and the nauseous fishy odor of my environment
seemed to mount suddenly and spectacularly. Then the knocking was
repeated--continuously, and with growing insistence. I knew that the
time for action had come, and forthwith drew the bolt of the northward
connecting door, bracing myself for the task of battering it open. The
knocking waxed louder, and I hoped that its volume would cover the
sound of my efforts. At last beginning my attempt, I lunged again and
again at the thin panelling with my left shoulder, heedless of shock or
pain.

Finally the connecting door gave, but with such a crash that I knew
those outside must have heard. Instantly the outside knocking became
a violent battering, while keys sounded ominously in the hall doors
of the rooms on both sides of me. Rushing through the newly opened
connection, I succeeded in bolting the northerly hall door before the
lock could be turned; but even as I did so I heard the hall door of the
third room--the one from whose window I had hoped to reach the roof
below--being tried with a pass key.

For an instant I felt absolute despair, since my trapping in a chamber
with no window egress seemed complete. Then, with a dazed automatism,
I made for the next connecting door and performed the blind motion of
pushing at it in an effort to get through!

Sheer fortunate chance gave me my reprieve--for the connecting door
before me was not only unlocked but actually ajar. In a second I was
through, and had my right knee and shoulder against a hall door which
was visibly opening inward. My pressure took the opener off guard, for
the thing shut as I pushed, so that I could slip the well-conditioned
bolt as I had done with the other door. As I gained this respite I
heard the battering at the two other doors abate, while a confused
clatter came from the connecting door I had shielded with the bedstead.
Evidently the bulk of my assailants had entered the southerly room and
were massing in a lateral attack. But at the same moment a pass key
sounded in the next door to the north, and I knew that a nearer peril
was at hand.

The northward connecting door was wide open, but there was no time to
think about checking the already turning lock in the hall. All I could
do was to shut and bolt the open connecting door, as well as its mate
on the opposite side--pushing a bedstead against the one and a bureau
against the other, and moving a washstand in front of the hall door.
I must, I saw, trust to such makeshift barriers to shield me till I
could get out the window and on the roof of the Paine Street block. But
even in this acute moment my chief horror was something apart from the
immediate weakness of my defenses. I was shuddering because not one
of my pursuers, despite some hideous pantings, gruntings, and subdued
barkings at odd intervals, was uttering an intelligible vocal sound!

As I moved the furniture and rushed toward the windows I heard a
frightful scurrying along the corridor toward the room north of me, and
perceived that the southward battering had ceased. Plainly, most of my
opponents were about to concentrate against the feeble connecting door
which they knew must open directly on me. Outside, the moon played on
the ridge-pole of the block below, and I saw that the jump would be
desperately hazardous because of the steep surface on which I must land.

The clatter at the northerly connecting door was now terrific, and
I saw that the weak panelling was beginning to splinter. Obviously,
the besiegers had brought some ponderous object into play as a
battering-ram. The bedstead, however, still held firm; so that I had at
least a faint chance of making good my escape. As I opened the window
I noticed that it was flanked by heavy velour draperies suspended from
a pole by brass rings, and also that there was a large projecting
catch for the shutters on the exterior. Seeing a possible means of
avoiding the dangerous jump, I yanked at the hangings and brought
them down, pole and all; then quickly hooking two of the rings in the
shutter catch and flinging the drapery outside. The heavy folds reached
fully to the abutting roof, and I saw that the rings and catch would
be likely to bear my weight. So, climbing out of the window and down
the improvised rope ladder, I left behind me forever the morbid and
horror-infested fabric of the Gilman House.

I landed safely on the loose slates of the steep roof, and succeeded in
gaining the gaping black skylight without a slip. The place inside was
ghoulish-looking, but I was past minding such impressions and made at
once for the staircase revealed by my flashlight--after a hasty glance
at my watch, which showed the hour to be 2 A.M. The steps creaked, but
seemed tolerably sound; and I raced down past a barnlike second story
to the ground floor. The desolation was complete, and only echoes
answered my footfalls.

The hallway inside was black, and when I reached the opposite end I saw
that the street door was wedged immovably shut. Resolved to try another
building, I groped my way toward the courtyard, but stopped short when
close to the doorway.

For out of an opened door in the Gilman House a large crowd of doubtful
shapes was pouring--lanterns bobbing in the darkness, and horrible
croaking voices exchanging low cries in what was certainly not English.
Their features were indistinguishable, but their crouching, shambling
gait was abominably repellent. And worst of all, I perceived that one
figure was strangely robed, and unmistakably surmounted by a tall tiara
of a design altogether too familiar. Again groping toward the street,
I opened a door off the hall and came upon an empty room with closely
shuttered but sashless windows. Fumbling in the rays of my flashlight,
I found I could open the shutters; and in another moment had climbed
outside and was carefully closing the aperture in its original manner.

I walked rapidly, softly, and close to the ruined houses. At Bates
Street I drew into a yawning vestibule while two shambling figures
crossed in front of me, but was soon on my way again and approaching
the open space where Eliot Street obliquely crosses Washington at the
intersection of South. Though I had never seen this space, it had
looked dangerous to me on the grocery youth's map; since the moonlight
would have free play there. There was no use trying to evade it, for
any alternative course would involve detours of possibly disastrous
visibility and delaying effect. The only thing to do was to cross it
boldly and openly; imitating the typical shamble of the Innsmouth folk
as best I could, and trusting that no one--or at least no pursuer of
mine--would be there.

Just how fully the pursuit was organized--and indeed, just what its
purpose might be--I could form no idea. There seemed to be unusual
activity in the town, but I judged that the news of my escape from
the Gilman had not yet spread. The open space was, as I had expected,
strongly moonlit. But my progress was unimpeded, and no fresh sound
arose to hint that I had been spied. Glancing about me, I involuntarily
let my pace slacken for a second to take in the sight of the sea,
gorgeous in the burning moonlight at the street's end. Far out beyond
the breakwater was the dim, dark line of Devil Reef.

Then, without warning, I saw the intermittent flashes of light on the
distant reef. My muscles tightened for panic flight, held in only by a
certain unconscious caution and half-hypnotic fascination. And to make
matters worse, there now flashed forth from the lofty cupola of the
Gilman House, which loomed up to the northeast behind me, a series of
analogous though differently spaced gleams which could be nothing less
than an answering signal.

I now bent to the left around the ruinous green; still gazing toward
the ocean as it blazed in the spectral summer moonlight, and watching
the cryptical flashing of those nameless, unexplainable beacons.

It was then that the most horrible impression of all was borne in upon
me--the impression which destroyed my last vestige of self-control and
sent me running frantically southward past the yawning black doorways
and fishily staring windows of that deserted nightmare street. For at
a closer glance I saw that the moonlit waters between the reef and
the shore were far from empty. They were alive with a teeming horde of
shapes swimming inward toward the town!

My frantic running ceased before I had covered a block, for at my left
I began to hear something like the hue and cry of organized pursuit.
There were footsteps and guttural sounds, and a rattling motor wheezed
south along Federal Street. In a second all my plans were utterly
changed--for if the southward highway were blocked ahead of me, I must
clearly find another egress from Innsmouth. I paused and drew into a
gaping doorway, reflecting how lucky I was to have left the moonlit
open space before these pursuers came down the parallel street.

Then I thought of the abandoned railway to Rowley, whose solid line of
ballasted, weed-grown earth still stretched off to the northwest from
the crumbling station on the edge of the river gorge. There was just a
chance that the townsfolk would not think of that!

Drawing inside the hall of my deserted shelter, I once more consulted
the grocery boy's map with the aid of the flashlight. The immediate
problem was how to reach the ancient railway; and I now saw that the
safest course was ahead to Babson Street, then west to Lafayette--there
edging around but not crossing an open space homologous to the one
I had traversed--and subsequently back northward and westward in
zigzagging line through Lafayette, Bates, Adams, and Banks Streets--the
latter skirting the river gorge--to the abandoned and dilapidated
station I had seen from my window. My reason for going ahead to Babson
was that I wished neither to re-cross the earlier open space nor to
begin my westward course along a cross street as broad as South. I
crossed the street to the right-hand side in order to edge around into
Babson as inconspicuously as possible.

In Babson Street I clung as closely as possible to the sagging,
uneven buildings; twice pausing in a doorway as the noises behind me
momentarily increased. The open space ahead shone wide and desolate
under the moon, but my route would not force me to cross it. During
my second pause I began to detect a fresh distribution of the vague
sounds; and upon looking cautiously out from cover beheld a motor car
darting across the open space, bound outward along Eliot Street.

As I watched--choked by a sudden rise in the fishy odor after a short
abatement--I saw a band of uncouth, crouching shapes loping and
shambling in the same direction; and knew that this must be the party
guarding the Ipswich road, since that highway forms an extension of
Eliot Street. Two of the figures I glimpsed were in voluminous robes,
and one wore a peaked diadem which glistened whitely in the moonlight.
The gait of this figure was so odd that it sent a chill through me--for
it seemed to me the creature was almost _hopping_.

When the last of the band was out of sight I resumed my progress;
darting around the corner into Lafayette Street, and crossing Eliot
very hurriedly lest stragglers of the party be still advancing along
that thoroughfare. I did hear some croaking and clattering sounds
far off toward Town Square, but accomplished the passage without
disaster. My greatest dread was in re-crossing broad and moonlit South
Street--with its seaward view--and I had to nerve myself for the
ordeal. Someone might easily be looking, and possible Eliot Street
stragglers could not fail to glimpse me from either of two points. At
the last moment I decided I had better slacken my trot and make the
crossing as before in the shambling gait of an average Innsmouth native.

I had not quite crossed the street when I heard a muttering band
advancing along Washington from the north. As they reached the broad
open space where I had had my first disquieting glimpse of the moonlit
water I could see them plainly only a block away--and was horrified by
the bestial abnormality of their faces and the dog-like sub-humanness
of their crouching gait. One man moved in a positively simian way, with
long arms frequently touching the ground; while another figure--robed
and tiaraed--seemed to progress in an almost hopping fashion. I judged
this party to be the one I had seen in the Gilman's courtyard--the one,
therefore, most closely on my trail. As some of the figures turned
to look in my direction I was transfixed with fright, yet managed to
preserve the casual, shambling gait I had assumed. To this day I do
not know whether they saw me or not. If they did, my stratagem must
have deceived them, for they passed on across the moonlit space without
varying their course--meanwhile croaking and jabbering in some hateful
guttural patois I could not identify.

Once more in shadow, I resumed my former dog-trot past the leaning and
decrepit houses that stared blankly into the night. Having crossed to
the western sidewalk I rounded the nearest corner into Bates Street,
where I kept close to the buildings on the southern side. At last I saw
the ancient arcaded station--or what was left of it--and made directly
for the tracks that started from its farther end.

The rails were rusty but mainly intact, and not more than half the
ties had rotted away. Walking or running on such a surface was very
difficult; but I did my best, and on the whole made very fair time. For
some distance the line kept on along the gorge's brink, but at length I
reached the long covered bridge where it crossed the chasm at a dizzy
height. The condition of this bridge would determine my next step. If
humanly possible, I would use it; if not, I would have to risk more
street wandering and take the nearest intact highway bridge.

The vast, barnlike length of the old bridge gleamed spectrally in the
moonlight and I saw that the ties were safe for at least a few feet
within. Entering, I began to use my flashlight, and was almost knocked
down by the cloud of bats that flapped past me. About halfway across
there was a perilous gap in the ties which I feared for a moment would
halt me; but in the end I risked a desperate jump which fortunately
succeeded.

I was glad to see the moonlight again when I emerged from that macabre
tunnel. The old tracks crossed River Street at a grade, and at once
veered off into a region increasingly rural and with less and less of
Innsmouth's abhorrent fishy odor. Here the dense growth of weeds and
briers hindered me and cruelly tore my clothes, but I was none the less
glad that they were there to give me concealment in case of peril. I
knew that much of my route must be visible from the Rowley road.

The marshy region began very shortly, with the single track on a low,
grassy embankment. Then came a sort of island of higher ground, where
the line passed through a shallow open cut choked with bushes and
brambles. I was very glad of this partial shelter, since at this point
the Rowley road was uncomfortably near according to my window view.

Just before entering the cut I glanced behind me, but saw no pursuer.
The ancient spires and roofs of decaying Innsmouth gleamed lovely and
ethereal in the magic yellow moonlight, and I thought of how they must
have looked in the old days before the shadow fell. Then, as my gaze
circled inland from the town, something less tranquil arrested my
notice and held me immobile for a second.

What I saw--or fancied I saw--was a disturbing suggestion of undulant
motion far to the south; a suggestion which made me conclude that
a very large horde must be pouring out of the city along the level
Ipswich road. The distance was great, and I could distinguish nothing
in detail; but I did not at all like the look of that moving column.

All sorts of unpleasant conjectures crossed my mind. I thought of those
very extreme Innsmouth types said to be hidden in crumbling, centuried
warrens near the waterfront. I thought, too, of those nameless swimmers
I had seen. Counting the parties so far glimpsed, as well as those
presumably covering other roads, the number of my pursuers must be
strangely large for a town as depopulated as Innsmouth.

Who were they? Why were they here? And if such a column of them was
scouring the Ipswich road, would the patrols on the other roads be
likewise augmented?

I had entered the brush-grown cut and was struggling along at a very
slow pace when that damnable fishy odor again waxed dominant. There
were sounds, too--a kind of wholesale, colossal flopping or pattering
which somehow called up images of the most detestable sort.

And then both stench and sounds grew stronger, so that I paused
shivering and grateful for the cut's protection. It was here, I
recalled, that the Rowley road drew so close to the old railway before
crossing westward and diverging. Something was coming along that road,
and I must lie low till its passage and vanishment in the distance.
Crouched in the bushes of that sandy cleft I felt reasonably safe, even
though I knew the searchers would have to cross the track in front of
me not much more than a hundred yards away. I would be able to see
them, but they could not, except by a malign miracle, see me.

All at once I began dreading to look at them as they passed. I saw the
close moonlit space where they would surge by, and had curious thoughts
about the irredeemable pollution of that space. They would perhaps
be the worst of all Innsmouth types--something one would not care to
remember.

The stench waxed overpowering, and the noises swelled to a bestial
babel of croaking, baying, and barking, without the least suggestion
of human speech. Were these indeed the voices of my pursuers? That
flopping or pattering was monstrous--I could not look upon the
degenerate creatures responsible for it. I would keep my eyes shut till
the sounds receded toward the west. The horde was very close now--the
air foul with their hoarse snarlings, and the ground almost shaking
with their alien-rhythmed footfalls. My breath nearly ceased to come,
and I put every ounce of will-power into the task of holding my eyelids
down.

I am not even yet willing to say whether what followed was a hideous
actuality or only a nightmare hallucination. The later action of the
government, after my frantic appeals, would tend to confirm it as a
monstrous truth; but could not an hallucination have been repeated
under the quasi-hypnotic spell of that ancient, haunted, and shadowed
town?

But I must try to tell what I thought I saw that night under the
mocking yellow moon--saw surging and hopping down the Rowley road in
plain sight in front of me as I crouched among the wild brambles of
that desolate railway cut. Of course my resolution to keep my eyes shut
had failed. It was foredoomed to failure--for who could crouch blindly
while a legion of croaking, baying entities of unknown source flopped
noisomely past, scarcely more than a hundred yards away?

For I knew that a long section of them must be plainly in sight where
the sides of the cut flattened out and the road crossed the track--and
I could no longer keep myself from sampling whatever horror that
leering yellow moon might have to show.

It was the end, for whatever remains to me of life on the surface of
this earth, of every vestige of mental peace and confidence in the
integrity of nature and of the human mind. Can it be possible that this
planet has actually spawned such things; that human eyes have truly
seen, as objective flesh, what man has hitherto known only in febrile
phantasy and tenuous legend?

And yet I saw them in a limitless stream--flopping, hopping, croaking,
bleating--surging inhumanly through the spectral moonlight in a
grotesque, malignant saraband of fantastic nightmare. And some of them
had tall tiaras of that nameless whitish-gold metal ... and some were
strangely robed ... and one, who led the way, was clad in a ghoulishly
humped black coat and striped trousers, and had a man's felt hat
perched on the shapeless thing that answered for a head....

I think their predominant color was a grayish-green, though they had
white bellies. They were mostly shiny and slippery, but the ridges of
their backs were scaly. Their forms vaguely suggested the anthropoid,
while their heads were the heads of fish, with prodigious bulging eyes
that never closed. At the sides of their necks were palpitating gills,
and their long paws were webbed. They hopped irregularly, sometimes on
two legs and sometimes on four. I was somehow glad that they had no
more than four limbs. Their croaking, baying voices, clearly used for
articulate speech, held all the dark shades of expression which their
staring faces lacked.

But for all of their monstrousness they were not unfamiliar to me. I
knew too well what they must be--for was not the memory of that evil
tiara at Newburyport still fresh? They were the blasphemous fish-frogs
of the nameless design--living and horrible--and as I saw them I knew
also of what that humped, tiaraed priest in the black church basement
had so fearsomely reminded me. Their number was past guessing. It
seemed to me that there were limitless swarms of them--and certainly my
momentary glimpse could have shown only the least fraction. In another
instant everything was blotted out by a merciful fit of fainting; the
first I had ever had.

                                   V

It was a gentle daylight rain that awaked me from my stupor in the
brush-grown railway cut, and when I staggered out to the roadway ahead
I saw no trace of any prints in the fresh mud. Innsmouth's ruined roofs
and toppling steeples loomed up grayly toward the southeast, but not a
living creature did I spy in all the desolate salt marshes around. My
watch was still going, and told me that the hour was past noon.

The reality of what I had been through was highly uncertain in my mind,
but I felt that something hideous lay in the background. I must get
away from evil-shadowed Innsmouth--and accordingly I began to test
my cramped, wearied powers of locomotion. Despite weakness, hunger,
horror, and bewilderment I found myself after a time able to walk; so
started slowly along the muddy road to Rowley. Before evening I was
in the village, getting a meal and providing myself with presentable
clothes. I caught the night train to Arkham, and the next day talked
long and earnestly with government officials there; a process I later
repeated in Boston. With the main result of these colloquies the public
is now familiar--and I wish, for normality's sake, there were nothing
more to tell. Perhaps it is madness that is overtaking me--yet perhaps
a greater horror--or a greater marvel--is reaching out.

I dared not look for that piece of strange jewelry said to be in the
Miskatonic University Museum. I did, however, improve my stay in Arkham
by collecting some genealogical notes I had long wished to possess;
very rough and hasty data, it is true, but capable of good use later
on when I might have time to collate and codify them. The curator of
the historical society there--Mr. E. Lapham Peabody--was very courteous
about assisting me, and expressed unusual interest when I told him I
was a grandson of Eliza Orne of Arkham, who was born in 1867 and had
married James Williamson of Ohio at the age of seventeen.

It seemed that a maternal uncle of mine had been there many years
before on a quest much like my own; and that my grandmother's family
was a topic of some local curiosity. There had, Mr. Peabody said, been
considerable discussion about the marriage of her father, Benjamin
Orne, just after the Civil War; since the ancestry of the bride was
peculiarly puzzling. That bride was understood to have been an orphaned
Marsh of New Hampshire--a cousin of the Essex County Marshes--but her
education had been in France and she knew very little of her family. A
guardian had deposited funds in a Boston bank to maintain her and her
French governess; but that guardian's name was unfamiliar to Arkham
people, and in time he dropped out of sight, so that the governess
assumed his role by court appointment. The French-woman--now long
dead--was very taciturn, and there were those who said she could have
told more than she did.

But the most baffling thing was the inability of anyone to place
the recorded parents of the young woman--Enoch and Lydia (Meserve)
Marsh--among the known families of New Hampshire. Possibly,
many suggested, she was the natural daughter of some Marsh of
prominence--she certainly had the true Marsh eyes. Most of the
puzzling was done after her early death, which took place at the birth
of my grandmother--her only child. Having formed some disagreeable
impressions connected with the name of Marsh, I did not welcome the
news that it belonged on my own ancestral tree; nor was I pleased
by Mr. Peabody's suggestion that I had the true Marsh eyes myself.
However, I was grateful for data which I knew would prove valuable;
and took copious notes and lists of book references regarding the
well-documented Orne family.

I went directly home to Toledo from Boston, and later spent a month
at Maumee recuperating from my ordeal. In September I entered Oberlin
for my final year, and from then till the next June was busy with
studies and other wholesome activities--reminded of the bygone terror
only by occasional official visits from government men in connection
with the campaign which my pleas and evidence had started. Around the
middle of July--just a year after the Innsmouth experience--I spent a
week with my late mother's family in Cleveland; checking some of my
new genealogical data with the various notes, traditions, and bits
of heirloom material in existence there, and seeing what kind of a
connected chart I could construct.

I did not exactly relish this task, for the atmosphere of the
Williamson home had always depressed me. There was a strain of
morbidity there, and my mother had never encouraged my visiting her
parents as a child, although she always welcomed her father when
he came to Toledo. My Arkham-born grandmother had seemed strange
and almost terrifying to me, and I do not think I grieved when she
disappeared. I was eight years old then, and it was said that she had
wandered off in grief after the suicide of my uncle Douglas, her eldest
son. He had shot himself after a trip to New England--the same trip,
no doubt, which had caused him to be recalled at the Arkham Historical
Society.

This uncle had resembled her, and I had never liked him either.
Something about the staring, unwinking expression of both of them
had given me a vague, unaccountable uneasiness. My mother and uncle
Walter had not looked like that. They were like their father, though
poor little cousin Lawrence--Walter's son--had been an almost perfect
duplicate of his grandmother before his condition took him to the
permanent seclusion of a sanitarium at Canton. I had not seen him in
four years, but my uncle once implied that his state, both mental and
physical, was very bad. This worry had probably been a major cause of
his mother's death two years before.

My grandfather and his widowered son Walter now comprised the Cleveland
household, but the memory of older times hung thickly over it. I still
disliked the place, and tried to get my researches done as quickly as
possible. Williamson records and traditions were supplied in abundance
by my grandfather; though for Orne material I had to depend on my uncle
Walter, who put at my disposal the contents of all his files, including
notes, letters, cuttings, heirlooms, photographs, and miniatures.

It was in going over the letters and pictures on the Orne side that I
began to acquire a kind of terror of my own ancestry. As I have said,
my grandmother and uncle Douglas had always disturbed me. Now, years
after their passing, I gazed at their pictured faces with a measurably
heightened feeling of repulsion and alienation. I could not at first
understand the change, but gradually a horrible sort of _comparison_
began to obtrude itself on my unconscious mind despite the steady
refusal of my consciousness to admit even the least suspicion of it.
It was clear that the typical expression of these faces now suggested
something it had not suggested before--something which would bring
stark panic if too openly thought of.

But the worst shock came when my uncle showed me the Orne jewelry in
a downtown safe-deposit vault. Some of the items were delicate and
inspiring enough, but there was one box of strange old pieces descended
from my mysterious great-grandmother which my uncle was almost
reluctant to produce. They were, he said, of very grotesque and almost
repulsive design.

As my uncle began slowly and grudgingly to unwrap the things, he urged
me not to be shocked by the strangeness and frequent hideousness of
the designs. There were two armlets, a tiara, and a kind of pectoral;
the latter having in high relief certain figures of almost unbearable
extravagance.

He seemed to expect some demonstration when the first piece--the
tiara--became visible, but I doubt if he expected quite what actually
happened. I did not expect it, either, for I thought I was thoroughly
forewarned regarding what the jewelry would turn out to be. What I did
was to faint silently away just as I had done in that brier-choked
railway cut a year before.

From that day on my life has been a nightmare of brooding and
apprehension, nor do I know how much is hideous truth and how much
madness. My great-grandmother had been a Marsh of unknown source whose
husband lived in Arkham--and did not old Zadok say that the daughter of
Obed Marsh by a monstrous mother was married to an Arkham man through
a trick? What was it the ancient toper had muttered about the likeness
of my eyes to Captain Obed's? In Arkham, too, the curator had told me I
had the true Marsh eyes. Was Obed Marsh my own great-great-grandfather?
Who--or _what_--then, was my great-great-grandmother? But perhaps
this was all madness. Those whitish-gold ornaments might easily
have been bought from some Innsmouth sailor by the father of my
great-grandmother, whoever he was. And that look in the staring-eyed
faces of my grandmother and self-slain uncle might be sheer fancy,
bolstered up by the Innsmouth shadow which had so darkly colored my
imagination. But why had my uncle killed himself after an ancestral
quest in New England?

For more than two years I fought off these reflections with partial
success. My father secured me a place in an insurance office, and
I buried myself in routine as deeply as possible. In the winter of
1930-31, however, the dreams began. They were very sparse and insidious
at first, but increased in frequency and vividness as the weeks went
by. Great watery spaces opened out before me, and I seemed to wander
through titanic sunken porticos and labyrinths of weedy cyclopean walls
and grotesque fishes as my companions. Then the _other shapes_ began to
appear, filling me with nameless horror the moment I awoke. But during
the dreams they did not horrify me at all--I was one with them; wearing
their unhuman trappings, treading their aqueous ways, and praying
monstrously at their evil sea-bottom temples.

There was much more than I could remember, but even what I did remember
each morning would be enough to stamp me as a madman or a genius if
ever I dared write it down. Some frightful influence, I felt, was
seeking gradually to drag me out of the sane world of wholesome life
into unnameable abysses of blackness and alienage; and the process
told heavily on me. My health and appearance grew steadily worse, till
finally I was forced to give up my position and adopt the static,
secluded life of an invalid. Some odd nervous affliction had me in its
grip, and I found myself at times almost unable to shut my eyes.

It was then that I began to study the mirror with mounting alarm. The
slow ravages of disease are not pleasant to watch, but in my case there
was something subtler and more puzzling in the background. My father
seemed to notice it, too, for he began looking at me curiously and
almost affrightedly. What was taking place in me? Could it be that I
was coming to resemble my grandmother and uncle Douglas?

One night I had a frightful dream in which I met my grandmother
under the sea. She lived in a phosphorescent palace of many
terraces, with gardens of strange leprous corals and grotesque
brachiate efflorescences, and welcomed me with a warmth that may
have been sardonic. She had changed--as those who take to the water
change--and told me she had never died. Instead, she had gone to a
spot her dead son had learned about, and had leaped to a realm whose
wonders--destined for him as well--he had spurned with a smoking
pistol. This was to be my realm, too--I could not escape it. I would
never die, but would live with those who had lived since before man
ever walked the earth.

[Illustration: "One night, in a frightful dream, I met two Ancient Ones
under the sea in a phosphorescent, many terraced palace surrounded by
gardens of strange, leprous corals."]

I met also that which had been her grandmother. For eighty thousand
years Pth'thya-l'yi had lived in Y'ha-nthlei, and thither she had gone
back after Obed Marsh was dead. Y'ha-nthlei was not destroyed when
the upper-earth men shot death into the sea. It was hurt, but not
destroyed. The Deep Ones could never be destroyed, even though the
palaeogean magic of the forgotten Old Ones might sometimes check them.
For the present they would rest; but some day, if they remembered, they
would rise again for the tribute Great Cthulhu craved. It would be a
city greater than Innsmouth next time. They had planned to spread, and
had brought up that which would help them, but now they must wait once
more. For bringing the upper-earth men's death I must do a penance,
but that would not be heavy. This was the dream in which I saw a
_shoggoth_ for the first time, and the sight set me awake in a frenzy
of screaming. That morning the mirror definitely told me I had acquired
_the Innsmouth look_.

So far I have not shot myself as my uncle Douglas did. I bought an
automatic and almost took the step, but certain dreams deterred me. The
tense extremes of horror are lessening, and I feel queerly drawn toward
the unknown sea-deeps instead of fearing them. I hear and do strange
things in sleep, and awake with a kind of exaltation instead of terror.
I do not believe I need to wait for the full change as most have
waited. If I did, my father would probably shut me up in a sanitarium
as my poor little cousin is shut up. Stupendous and unheard-of
splendors await me below, and I shall seek them soon. _Iā-R'lyeh!
Cthulhu fhtagn! Iā! Iā!_ No, I shall not shoot myself--I cannot
be made to shoot myself!

I shall plan my cousin's escape from that Canton madhouse, and together
we shall go to marvel-shadowed Innsmouth. We shall swim out to that
brooding reef in the sea and dive down through black abysses to
cyclopean and many-columned Y'ha-nthlei, and in that lair of the Deep
Ones we shall dwell amidst wonder and glory forever.

The
                             Shunned House

                           By H. P. LOVECRAFT

 _A posthumous story of immense power, written by a master of weird
   fiction--a tale of a revolting horror in the cellar of an old
                       house in New England_

    Howard Phillips Lovecraft died last March, at the height of his
    career. Though only forty-six years of age, he had built up an
    international reputation by the artistry and impeccable literary
    craftsmanship of his weird tales; and he was regarded on both sides
    of the Atlantic as probably the greatest contemporary master of
    weird fiction. His ability to create and sustain a mood of brooding
    dread and unnamable horror is nowhere better shown than in the
    posthumous tale presented here: "The Shunned House."

From even the greatest of horrors irony is seldom absent. Sometimes it
enters directly into the composition of the events, while sometimes it
relates only to their fortuitous position among persons and places. The
latter sort is splendidly exemplified by a case in the ancient city of
Providence, where in the late forties Edgar Allan Poe used to sojourn
often during his unsuccessful wooing of the gifted poetess, Mrs.
Whitman. Poe generally stopped at the Mansion House in Benefit
Street--the renamed Golden Ball Inn whose roof has sheltered Washington,
Jefferson, and Lafayette--and his favorite walk led northward along the
same street to Mrs. Whitman's home and the neighboring hillside
churchyard of St. John's, whose hidden expanse of Eighteenth Century
gravestones had for him a peculiar fascination.

Now the irony is this. In this walk, so many times repeated, the world's
greatest master of the terrible and the bizarre was obliged to pass a
particular house on the eastern side of the street; a dingy, antiquated
structure perched on the abruptly rising side hill, with a great unkempt
yard dating from a time when the region was partly open country. It does
not appear that he ever wrote or spoke of it, nor is there any evidence
that he even noticed it. And yet that house, to the two persons in
possession of certain information, equals or outranks in horror the
wildest fantasy of the genius who so often passed it unknowingly, and
stands starkly leering as a symbol of all that is unutterably hideous.

The house was--and for that matter still is--of a kind to attract the
attention of the curious. Originally a farm or semi-farm building, it
followed the average New England colonial lines of the middle Eighteenth
Century--the prosperous peaked-roof sort, with two stories and
dormerless attic, and with the Georgian doorway and interior panelling
dictated by the progress of taste at that time. It faced south, with one
gable end buried to the lower windows in the eastward rising hill, and
the other exposed to the foundations toward the street. Its
construction, over a century and a half ago, had followed the grading
and straightening of the road in that especial vicinity; for Benefit
Street--at first called Back Street--was laid out as a lane winding
amongst the graveyards of the first settlers, and straightened only when
the removal of the bodies to the North Burial Ground made it decently
possible to cut through the old family plots.

At the start, the western wall had lain some twenty feet up a
precipitous lawn from the roadway; but a widening of the street at about
the time of the Revolution sheared off most of the intervening space,
exposing the foundations so that a brick basement wall had to be made,
giving the deep cellar a street frontage with door and one window above
ground, close to the new line of public travel. When the sidewalk was
laid out a century ago the last of the intervening space was removed;
and Poe in his walks must have seen only a sheer ascent of dull gray
brick flush with the sidewalk and surmounted at a height of ten feet by
the antique shingled bulk of the house proper.

[Illustration: "That awful door in Benefit Street which I had left
ajar."]

The farm-like ground extended back very deeply up the hill, almost to
Wheaton Street. The space south of the house, abutting on Benefit
Street, was of course greatly above the existing sidewalk level, forming
a terrace bounded by a high bank wall of damp, mossy stone pierced by a
steep flight of narrow steps which led inward between canyon-like
surfaces to the upper region of mangy lawn, rheumy brick walks, and
neglected gardens whose dismantled cement urns, rusted kettles fallen
from tripods of knotty sticks, and similar paraphernalia set off the
weather-beaten front door with its broken fanlight, rotting Ionic
pilasters, and wormy triangular pediment.

       *       *       *       *       *

What I heard in my youth about the shunned house was merely that people
died there in alarmingly great numbers. That, I was told, was why the
original owners had moved out some twenty years after building the
place. It was plainly unhealthy, perhaps because of the dampness and
fungous growths in the cellar, the general sickish smell, the drafts of
the hallways, or the quality of the well and pump water. These things
were bad enough, and these were all that gained belief among the persons
whom I knew. Only the notebooks of my antiquarian uncle, Doctor Elihu
Whipple, revealed to me at length the darker, vaguer surmises which
formed an undercurrent of folklore among old-time servants and humble
folk; surmises which never travelled far, and which were largely
forgotten when Providence grew to be a metropolis with a shifting modern
population.

The general fact is, that the house was never regarded by the solid part
of the community as in any real sense "haunted." There were no
widespread tales of rattling chains, cold currents of air, extinguished
lights, or faces at the window. Extremists sometimes said the house was
"unlucky," but that is as far as even they went. What was really beyond
dispute is that a frightful proportion of persons died there; or more
accurately, _had_ died there, since after some peculiar happenings over
sixty years ago the building had become deserted through the sheer
impossibility of renting it. These persons were not all cut off suddenly
by any one cause; rather did it seem that their vitality was insidiously
sapped, so that each one died the sooner from whatever tendency to
weakness he may have naturally had. And those who did not die displayed
in varying degree a type of anemia or consumption, and sometimes a
decline of the mental faculties, which spoke ill for the salubriousness
of the building. Neighboring houses, it must be added, seemed entirely
free from the noxious quality.

This much I knew before my insistent questioning led my uncle to show me
the notes which finally embarked us both on our hideous investigation.
In my childhood the shunned house was vacant, with barren, gnarled and
terrible old trees, long, queerly pale grass and nightmarishly misshapen
weeds in the high terraced yard where birds never lingered. We boys used
to overrun the place, and I can still recall my youthful terror not only
at the morbid strangeness of this sinister vegetation, but at the
eldritch atmosphere and odor of the dilapidated house, whose unlocked
front door was often entered in quest of shudders. The small-paned
windows were largely broken, and a nameless air of desolation hung round
the precarious panelling, shaky interior shutters, peeling wall-paper,
falling plaster, rickety staircases, and such fragments of battered
furniture as still remained. The dust and cobwebs added their touch of
the fearful; and brave indeed was the boy who would voluntarily ascend
the ladder to the attic, a vast raftered length lighted only by small
blinking windows in the gable ends, and filled with a massed wreckage
of chests, chairs, and spinning-wheels which infinite years of deposit
had shrouded and festooned into monstrous and hellish shapes.

But after all, the attic was not the most terrible part of the house. It
was the dank, humid cellar which somehow exerted the strongest repulsion
on us, even though it was wholly above ground on the street side, with
only a thin door and window-pierced brick wall to separate it from the
busy sidewalk. We scarcely knew whether to haunt it in spectral
fascination, or to shun it for the sake of our souls and our sanity. For
one thing, the bad odor of the house was strongest there; and for
another thing, we did not like the white fungous growths which
occasionally sprang up in rainy summer weather from the hard earth
floor. Those fungi, grotesquely like the vegetation in the yard outside,
were truly horrible in their outlines; detestable parodies of toadstools
and Indian-pipes, whose like we had never seen in any other situation.
They rotted quickly, and at one stage became slightly phosphorescent; so
that nocturnal passers-by sometimes spoke of witch-fires glowing behind
the broken panes of the fetor-spreading windows.

We never--even in our wildest Halloween moods--visited this cellar
by night, but in some of our daytime visits could detect the
phosphorescence, especially when the day was dark and wet. There was
also a subtler thing we often thought we detected--a very strange thing
which was, however, merely suggestive at most. I refer to a sort of
cloudy whitish pattern on the dirt floor--a vague, shifting deposit of
mold or niter which we sometimes thought we could trace amidst the
sparse fungous growths near the huge fireplace of the basement kitchen.
Once in a while it struck us that this patch bore an uncanny resemblance
to a doubled-up human figure, though generally no such kinship existed,
and often there was no whitish deposit whatever.

On a certain rainy afternoon when this illusion seemed phenomenally
strong, and when, in addition, I had fancied I glimpsed a kind of thin,
yellowish, shimmering exhalation rising from the nitrous pattern toward
the yawning fireplace, I spoke to my uncle about the matter. He smiled
at this odd conceit, but it seemed that his smile was tinged with
reminiscence. Later I heard that a similar notion entered into some of
the wild ancient tales of the common folk--a notion likewise alluding to
ghoulish, wolfish shapes taken by smoke from the great chimney, and
queer contours assumed by certain of the sinuous tree-roots that thrust
their way into the cellar through the loose foundation-stones.

2

Not till my adult years did my uncle set before me the notes and data
which he had collected concerning the shunned house. Doctor Whipple was
a sane, conservative physician of the old school, and for all his
interest in the place was not eager to encourage young thoughts toward
the abnormal. His own view, postulating simply a building and location
of markedly unsanitary qualities, had nothing to do with abnormality;
but he realized that the very picturesqueness which aroused his own
interest would in a boy's fanciful mind take on all manner of gruesome
imaginative associations.

The doctor was a bachelor; a white-haired, clean-shaven, old-fashioned
gentleman, and a local historian of note, who had often broken a lance
with such controversial guardians of tradition as Sidney S. Rider and
Thomas W. Bicknell. He lived with one man-servant in a Georgian
homestead with knocker and iron-railed steps, balanced eerily on the
steep ascent of North Court Street beside the ancient brick court and
colony house where his grandfather--a cousin of that celebrated
privateersman, Captain Whipple, who burnt His Majesty's armed schooner
_Gaspee_ in 1772--had voted in the legislature on May 4, 1776, for the
independence of the Rhode Island Colony. Around him in the damp,
low-ceiled library with the musty white panelling, heavy carved
overmantel and small-paned, vine-shaded windows, were the relics and
records of his ancient family, among which were many dubious allusions
to the shunned house in Benefit Street. That pest spot lies not far
distant--for Benefit runs ledgewise just above the court house along the
precipitous hill up which the first settlement climbed.

When, in the end, my insistent pestering and maturing years evoked from
my uncle the hoarded lore I sought, there lay before me a strange enough
chronicle. Long-winded, statistical, and drearily genealogical as some
of the matter was, there ran through it a continuous thread of brooding,
tenacious horror and preternatural malevolence which impressed me even
more than it had impressed the good doctor. Separate events fitted
together uncannily, and seemingly irrelevant details held mines of
hideous possibilities. A new and burning curiosity grew in me, compared
to which my boyish curiosity was feeble and inchoate.

The first revelation led to an exhaustive research, and finally to that
shuddering quest which proved so disastrous to myself and mine. For at
the last my uncle insisted on joining the search I had commenced, and
after a certain night in that house he did not come away with me. I am
lonely without that gentle soul whose long years were filled only with
honor, virtue, good taste, benevolence, and learning. I have reared a
marble urn to his memory in St. John's churchyard--the place that Poe
loved--the hidden grove of giant willows on the hill, where tombs and
headstones huddle quietly between the hoary bulk of the church and the
houses and bank walls of Benefit Street.

The history of the house, opening amidst a maze of dates, revealed no
trace of the sinister either about its construction or about the
prosperous and honorable family who built it. Yet from the first a taint
of calamity, soon increased to boding significance, was apparent. My
uncle's carefully compiled record began with the building of the
structure in 1763, and followed the theme with an unusual amount of
detail. The shunned house, it seems, was first inhabited by William
Harris and his wife Rhoby Dexter, with their children, Elkanah, born in
1755, Abigail, born in 1757, William, Jr., born in 1759, and Ruth, born
in 1761. Harris was a substantial merchant and seaman in the West India
trade, connected with the firm of Obadiah Brown and his nephews. After
Brown's death in 1761, the new firm of Nicholas Brown & Company made him
master of the brig _Prudence_, Providence-built, of 120 tons, thus
enabling him to erect the new homestead he had desired ever since his
marriage.

The site he had chosen--a recently straightened part of the new and
fashionable Back Street, which ran along the side of the hill above
crowded Cheapside--was all that could be wished, and the building did
justice to the location. It was the best that moderate means could
afford, and Harris hastened to move in before the birth of a fifth child
which the family expected. That child, a boy, came in December; but was
still-born. Nor was any child to be born alive in that house for a
century and a half.

The next April, sickness occurred among the children, and Abigail and
Ruth died before the month was over. Doctor Job Ives diagnosed the
trouble as some infantile fever, though others declared it was more of a
mere wasting-away or decline. It seemed, in any event, to be contagious;
for Hannah Bowen, one of the two servants, died of it in the following
June. Eli Lideason, the other servant, constantly complained of
weakness; and would have returned to his father's farm in Rehoboth but
for a sudden attachment for Mehitabel Pierce, who was hired to succeed
Hannah. He died the next year--a sad year indeed, since it marked the
death of William Harris himself, enfeebled as he was by the climate of
Martinique, where his occupation had kept him for considerable periods
during the preceding decade.

The widowed Rhoby Harris never recovered from the shock of her husband's
death, and the passing of her first-born Elkanah two years later was the
final blow to her reason. In 1768 she fell victim to a mild form of
insanity, and was thereafter confined to the upper part of the house;
her elder maiden sister, Mercy Dexter, having moved in to take charge of
the family. Mercy was a plain, raw-boned woman of great strength; but
her health visibly declined from the time of her advent. She was greatly
devoted to her unfortunate sister, and had an especial affection for her
only surviving nephew William, who from a sturdy infant had become a
sickly, spindling lad. In this year the servant Mehitabel died, and the
other servant, Preserved Smith, left without coherent explanation--or at
least, with only some wild tales and a complaint that he disliked the
smell of the place. For a time Mercy could secure no more help, since
the seven deaths and case of madness, all occurring within five years'
space, had begun to set in motion the body of fireside rumor which later
became so bizarre. Ultimately, however, she obtained new servants from
out of town; Ann White, a morose woman from that part of North Kingstown
now set off as the township of Exeter, and a capable Boston man named
Zenas Low.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Ann White who first gave definite shape to the sinister idle
talk. Mercy should have known better than to hire anyone from the
Nooseneck Hill country, for that remote bit of backwoods was then, as
now, a seat of the most uncomfortable superstitions. As lately as 1892
an Exeter community exhumed a dead body and ceremoniously burnt its
heart in order to prevent certain alleged visitations injurious to the
public health and peace, and one may imagine the point of view of the
same section in 1768. Ann's tongue was perniciously active, and within a
few months Mercy discharged her, filling her place with a faithful and
amiable Amazon from Newport, Maria Robbins.

Meanwhile poor Rhoby Harris, in her madness, gave voice to dreams and
imaginings of the most hideous sort. At times her screams became
insupportable, and for long periods she would utter shrieking horrors
which necessitated her son's temporary residence with his cousin, Peleg
Harris, in Presbyterian Lane near the new college building. The boy
would seem to improve after these visits, and had Mercy been as wise as
she was well-meaning, she would have let him live permanently with
Peleg. Just what Mrs. Harris cried out in her fits of violence,
tradition hesitates to say; or rather, presents such extravagant
accounts that they nullify themselves through sheer absurdity. Certainly
it sounds absurd to hear that a woman educated only in the rudiments of
French often shouted for hours in a coarse and idiomatic form of that
language, or that the same person, alone and guarded, complained wildly
of a staring thing which bit and chewed at her. In 1772 the servant
Zenas died, and when Mrs. Harris heard of it she laughed with a shocking
delight utterly foreign to her. The next year she herself died, and was
laid to rest in the North Burial Ground beside her husband.

Upon the outbreak of trouble with Great Britain in 1775, William Harris,
despite his scant sixteen years and feeble constitution, managed to
enlist in the Army of Observation under General Greene; and from that
time on enjoyed a steady rise in health and prestige. In 1780, as a
captain in the Rhode Island forces in New Jersey under Colonel Angell,
he met and married Phebe Hetfield of Elizabethtown, whom he brought to
Providence upon his honorable discharge in the following year.

The young soldier's return was not a thing of unmitigated happiness. The
house, it is true, was still in good condition; and the street had been
widened and changed in name from Back Street to Benefit Street. But
Mercy Dexter's once robust frame had undergone a sad and curious decay,
so that she was now a stooped and pathetic figure with hollow voice and
disconcerting pallor--qualities shared to a singular degree by the one
remaining servant Maria. In the autumn of 1782 Phebe Harris gave birth
to a still-born daughter, and on the fifteenth of the next May Mercy
Dexter took leave of a useful, austere, and virtuous life.

William Harris, at last thoroughly convinced of the radically
unhealthful nature of his abode, now took steps toward quitting it and
closing it for ever. Securing temporary quarters for himself and his
wife at the newly opened Golden Ball Inn, he arranged for the building
of a new and finer house in Westminster Street, in the growing part of
the town across the Great Bridge. There, in 1785, his son Dutee was
born; and there the family dwelt till the encroachments of commerce
drove them back across the river and over the hill to Angell Street, in
the newer East Side residence district, where the late Archer Harris
built his sumptuous but hideous French-roofed mansion in 1876. William
and Phebe both succumbed to the yellow fever epidemic of 1797, but Dutee
was brought up by his cousin Rathbone Harris, Peleg's son.

Rathbone was a practical man, and rented the Benefit Street house
despite William's wish to keep it vacant. He considered it an obligation
to his ward to make the most of all the boy's property, nor did he
concern himself with the deaths and illnesses which caused so many
changes of tenants, or the steadily growing aversion with which the
house was generally regarded. It is likely that he felt only vexation
when, in 1804, the town council ordered him to fumigate the place with
sulfur, tar, and gum camphor on account of the much-discussed deaths of
four persons, presumably caused by the then diminishing fever epidemic.
They said the place had a febrile smell.

Dutee himself thought little of the house, for he grew up to be a
privateersman, and served with distinction on the _Vigilant_ under
Captain Cahoone in the War of 1812. He returned unharmed, married in
1814, and became a father on that memorable night of September 23, 1815,
when a great gale drove the waters of the bay over half the town, and
floated a tall sloop well up Westminster Street so that its masts almost
tapped the Harris windows in symbolic affirmation that the new boy,
Welcome, was a seaman's son.

Welcome did not survive his father, but lived to perish gloriously at
Fredericksburg in 1862. Neither he nor his son Archer knew of the
shunned house as other than a nuisance almost impossible to
rent--perhaps on account of the mustiness and sickly odor of unkempt old
age. Indeed, it never was rented after a series of deaths culminating in
1861, which the excitement of the war tended to throw into obscurity.
Carrington Harris, last of the male line, knew it only as a deserted and
somewhat picturesque center of legend until I told him my experience. He
had meant to tear it down and build an apartment house on the site, but
after my account decided to let it stand, install plumbing, and rent it.
Nor has he yet had any difficulty in obtaining tenants. The horror has
gone.

3

It may well be imagined how powerfully I was affected by the annals of
the Harrises. In this continuous record there seemed to me to brood a
persistent evil beyond anything in nature as I had known it; an evil
clearly connected with the house and not with the family. This
impression was confirmed by my uncle's less systematic array of
miscellaneous data--legends transcribed from servant gossip, cuttings
from the papers, copies of death certificates by fellow-physicians, and
the like. All of this material I cannot hope to give, for my uncle was a
tireless antiquarian and very deeply interested in the shunned house;
but I may refer to several dominant points which earn notice by their
recurrence through many reports from diverse sources. For example, the
servant gossip was practically unanimous in attributing to the fungous
and malodorous _cellar_ of the house a vast supremacy in evil influence.
There had been servants--Ann White especially--who would not use the
cellar kitchen, and at least three well-defined legends bore upon the
queer quasi-human or diabolic outlines assumed by tree-roots and patches
of mold in that region. These latter narratives interested me
profoundly, on account of what I had seen in my boyhood, but I felt that
most of the significance had in each case been largely obscured by
additions from the common stock of local ghost lore.

Ann White, with her Exeter superstition, had promulgated the most
extravagant and at the same time most consistent tale; alleging that
there must lie buried beneath the house one of those vampires--the dead
who retain their bodily form and live on the blood or breath of the
living--whose hideous legions send their preying shapes or spirits
abroad by night. To destroy a vampire one must, the grandmothers say,
exhume it and burn its heart, or at least drive a stake through that
organ; and Ann's dogged insistence on a search under the cellar had been
prominent in bringing about her discharge.

Her tales, however, commanded a wide audience, and were the more readily
accepted because the house indeed stood on land once used for burial
purposes. To me their interest depended less on this circumstance than
on the peculiarly appropriate way in which they dovetailed with certain
other things--the complaint of the departing servant Preserved Smith,
who had preceded Ann and never heard of her, that something "sucked his
breath" at night; the death-certificates of the fever victims of 1804,
issued by Doctor Chad Hopkins, and showing the four deceased persons all
unaccountably lacking in blood; and the obscure passages of poor Rhoby
Harris's ravings, where she complained of the sharp teeth of a
glassy-eyed, half-visible presence.

Free from unwarranted superstition though I am, these things produced in
me an odd sensation, which was intensified by a pair of widely separated
newspaper cuttings relating to deaths in the shunned house--one from the
_Providence Gazette and Country-Journal_ of April 12, 1815, and the
other from the _Daily Transcript and Chronicle_ of October 27,
1845--each of which detailed an appallingly grisly circumstance whose
duplication was remarkable. It seems that in both instances the dying
person, in 1815 a gentle old lady named Stafford and in 1845 a
schoolteacher of middle age named Eleazar Durfee, became transfigured in
a horrible way, glaring glassily and attempting to bite the throat of
the attending physician. Even more puzzling, though, was the final case
which put an end to the renting of the house--a series of anemia deaths
preceded by progressive madnesses wherein the patient would craftily
attempt the lives of his relatives by incisions in the neck or wrist.

This was in 1860 and 1861, when my uncle had just begun his medical
practise; and before leaving for the front he heard much of it from his
elder professional colleagues. The really inexplicable thing was the way
in which the victims--ignorant people, for the ill-smelling and widely
shunned house could now be rented to no others--would babble
maledictions in French, a language they could not possibly have studied
to any extent. It made one think of poor Rhoby Harris nearly a century
before, and so moved my uncle that he commenced collecting historical
data on the house after listening, some time subsequent to his return
from the war, to the first-hand account of Doctors Chase and Whitmarsh.
Indeed, I could see that my uncle had thought deeply on the subject, and
that he was glad of my own interest--an open-minded and sympathetic
interest which enabled him to discuss with me matters at which others
would merely have laughed. His fancy had not gone so far as mine, but he
felt that the place was rare in its imaginative potentialities, and
worthy of note as an inspiration in the field of the grotesque and
macabre.

For my part, I was disposed to take the whole subject with profound
seriousness, and began at once not only to review the evidence, but to
accumulate as much more as I could. I talked with the elderly Archer
Harris, then owner of the house, many times before his death in 1916;
and obtained from him and his still surviving maiden sister Alice an
authentic corroboration of all the family data my uncle had collected.
When, however, I asked them what connection with France or its language
the house could have, they confessed themselves as frankly baffled and
ignorant as I. Archer knew nothing, and all that Miss Harris could say
was that an old allusion her grandfather, Dutee Harris, had heard of
might have shed a little light. The old seaman, who had survived his son
Welcome's death in battle by two years, had not himself known the
legend, but recalled that his earliest nurse, the ancient Maria Robbins,
seemed darkly aware of something that might have lent a weird
significance to the French raving of Rhoby Harris, which she had so
often heard during the last days of that hapless woman. Maria had been
at the shunned house from 1769 till the removal of the family in 1783,
and had seen Mercy Dexter die. Once she hinted to the child Dutee of a
somewhat peculiar circumstance in Mercy's last moments, but he had soon
forgotten all about it save that it was something peculiar. The
granddaughter, moreover, recalled even this much with difficulty. She
and her brother were not so much interested in the house as was Archer's
son Carrington, the present owner, with whom I talked after my
experience.

       *       *       *       *       *

Having exhausted the Harris family of all the information it could
furnish, I turned my attention to early town records and deeds with a
zeal more penetrating than that which my uncle had occasionally shown in
the same work. What I wished was a comprehensive history of the site
from its very settlement in 1636--or even before, if any Narragansett
Indian legend could be unearthed to supply the data. I found, at the
start, that the land had been part of the long strip of home lot granted
originally to John Throckmorton; one of many similar strips beginning at
the Town Street beside the river and extending up over the hill to a
line roughly corresponding with the modern Hope Street. The Throckmorton
lot had later, of course, been much subdivided; and I became very
assiduous in tracing that section through which Back or Benefit Street
was later run. It had, as rumor indeed said, been the Throckmorton
graveyard; but as I examined the records more carefully, I found that
the graves had all been transferred at an early date to the North Burial
Ground on the Pawtucket West Road.

Then suddenly I came--by a rare piece of chance, since it was not in the
main body of records and might easily have been missed--upon something
which aroused my keenest eagerness, fitting in as it did with several of
the queerest phases of the affair. It was the record of a lease, in
1697, of a small tract of ground to an Etienne Roulet and wife. At last
the French element had appeared--that, and another deeper element of
horror which the name conjured up from the darkest recesses of my weird
and heterogeneous reading--and I feverishly studied the platting of the
locality as it had been before the cutting through and partial
straightening of Back Street between 1747 and 1758. I found what I had
half expected, that where the shunned house now stood the Roulets had
laid out their graveyard behind a one-story and attic cottage, and that
no record of any transfer of graves existed. The document, indeed, ended
in much confusion; and I was forced to ransack both the Rhode Island
Historical Society and Shepley Library before I could find a local door
which the name of Etienne Roulet would unlock. In the end I did find
something; something of such vague but monstrous import that I set about
at once to examine the cellar of the shunned house itself with a new and
excited minuteness.

The Roulets, it seemed, had come in 1696 from East Greenwich, down the
west shore of Narragansett Bay. They were Huguenots from Caude, and had
encountered much opposition before the Providence selectmen allowed them
to settle in the town. Unpopularity had dogged them in East Greenwich,
whither they had come in 1686, after the revocation of the Edict of
Nantes, and rumor said that the cause of dislike extended beyond mere
racial and national prejudice, or the land disputes which involved other
French settlers with the English in rivalries which not even Governor
Andros could quell. But their ardent Protestantism--too ardent, some
whispered--and their evident distress when virtually driven from the
village down the bay, had moved the sympathy of the town fathers. Here
the strangers had been granted a haven; and the swarthy Etienne Roulet,
less apt at agriculture than at reading queer books and drawing queer
diagrams, was given a clerical post in the warehouse at Pardon
Tillinghast's wharf, far south in Town Street. There had, however, been
a riot of some sort later on--perhaps forty years later, after old
Roulet's death--and no one seemed to hear of the family after that.

For a century and more, it appeared, the Roulets had been well
remembered and frequently discussed as vivid incidents in the quiet
life of a New England seaport. Etienne's son Paul, a surly fellow whose
erratic conduct had probably provoked the riot which wiped out the
family, was particularly a source of speculation; and though Providence
never shared the witchcraft panics of her Puritan neighbors, it was
freely intimated by old wives that his prayers were neither uttered at
the proper time nor directed toward the proper object. All this had
undoubtedly formed the basis of the legend known by old Maria Robbins.
What relation it had to the French ravings of Rhoby Harris and other
inhabitants of the shunned house, imagination or future discovery alone
could determine. I wondered how many of those who had known the legends
realized that additional link with the terrible which my wider reading
had given me; that ominous item in the annals of morbid horror which
tells of the creature _Jacques Roulet, of Caude_, who in 1598 was
condemned to death as a demoniac but afterward saved from the stake by
the Paris parliament and shut in a madhouse. He had been found covered
with blood and shreds of flesh in a wood, shortly after the killing and
rending of a boy by a pair of wolves. One wolf was seen to lope away
unhurt. Surely a pretty hearthside tale, with a queer significance as to
name and place; but I decided that the Providence gossips could not have
generally known of it. Had they known, the coincidence of names would
have brought some drastic and frightened action--indeed, might not its
limited whispering have precipitated the final riot which erased the
Roulets from the town?

       *       *       *       *       *

I now visited the accursed place with increased frequency; studying the
unwholesome vegetation of the garden, examining all the walls of the
building, and poring over every inch of the earthen cellar floor.
Finally, with Carrington Harris's permission, I fitted a key to the
disused door opening from the cellar directly upon Benefit Street,
preferring to have a more immediate access to the outside world than the
dark stairs, ground-floor hall, and front door could give. There, where
morbidity lurked most thickly, I searched and poked during long
afternoons when the sunlight filtered in through the cobwebbed
above-ground windows, and a sense of security glowed from the unlocked
door which placed me only a few feet from the placid sidewalk outside.
Nothing new rewarded my efforts--only the same depressing mustiness and
faint suggestions of noxious odors and nitrous outlines on the
floor--and I fancy that many pedestrians must have watched me curiously
through the broken panes.

At length, upon a suggestion of my uncle's, I decided to try the spot
nocturnally; and one stormy midnight ran the beams of an electric torch
over the moldy floor with its uncanny shapes and distorted,
half-phosphorescent fungi. The place had dispirited me curiously that
evening, and I was almost prepared when I saw--or thought I saw--amidst
the whitish deposits a particularly sharp definition of the "huddled
form" I had suspected from boyhood. Its clearness was astonishing and
unprecedented--and as I watched I seemed to see again the thin,
yellowish, shimmering exhalation which had startled me on that rainy
afternoon so many years before.

Above the anthropomorphic patch of mold by the fireplace it rose; a
subtle, sickish, almost luminous vapor which as it hung trembling in the
dampness seemed to develop vague and shocking suggestions of form,
gradually trailing off into nebulous decay and passing up into the
blackness of the great chimney with a fetor in its wake. It was truly
horrible, and the more so to me because of what I knew of the spot.
Refusing to flee, I watched it fade--and as I watched I felt that it was
in turn watching me greedily with eyes more imaginable than visible.
When I told my uncle about it he was greatly aroused; and after a tense
hour of reflection, arrived at a definite and drastic decision. Weighing
in his mind the importance of the matter, and the significance of our
relation to it, he insisted that we both test--and if possible
destroy--the horror of the house by a joint night or nights of
aggressive vigil in that musty and fungus-cursed cellar.

4

On Wednesday, June 25, 1919, after a proper notification of Carrington
Harris which did not include surmises as to what we expected to find, my
uncle and I conveyed to the shunned house two camp chairs and a folding
camp cot, together with some scientific mechanism of greater weight and
intricacy. These we placed in the cellar during the day, screening the
windows with paper and planning to return in the evening for our first
vigil. We had locked the door from the cellar to the ground floor; and
having a key to the outside cellar door, were prepared to leave our
expensive and delicate apparatus--which we had obtained secretly and at
great cost--as many days as our vigils might be protracted. It was our
design to sit up together till very late, and then watch singly till
dawn in two-hour stretches, myself first and then my companion; the
inactive member resting on the cot.

The natural leadership with which my uncle procured the instruments from
the laboratories of Brown University and the Cranston Street Armory, and
instinctively assumed direction of our venture, was a marvelous
commentary on the potential vitality and resilience of a man of
eighty-one. Elihu Whipple had lived according to the hygienic laws he
had preached as a physician, and but for what happened later would be
here in full vigor today. Only two persons suspected what did
happen--Carrington Harris and myself. I had to tell Harris because he
owned the house and deserved to know what had gone out of it. Then too,
we had spoken to him in advance of our quest; and I felt after my
uncle's going that he would understand and assist me in some vitally
necessary public explanations. He turned very pale, but agreed to help
me, and decided that it would now be safe to rent the house.

To declare that we were not nervous on that rainy night of watching
would be an exaggeration both gross and ridiculous. We were not, as I
have said, in any sense childishly superstitious, but scientific study
and reflection had taught us that the known universe of three dimensions
embraces the merest fraction of the whole cosmos of substance and
energy. In this case an overwhelming preponderance of evidence from
numerous authentic sources pointed to the tenacious existence of certain
forces of great power and, so far as the human point of view is
concerned, exceptional malignancy. To say that we actually believed in
vampires or werewolves would be a carelessly inclusive statement. Rather
must it be said that we were not prepared to deny the possibility of
certain unfamiliar and unclassified modifications of vital force and
attenuated matter; existing very infrequently in three-dimensional space
because of its more intimate connection with other spatial units, yet
close enough to the boundary of our own to furnish us occasional
manifestations which we, for lack of a proper vantage-point, may never
hope to understand.

In short, it seemed to my uncle and me that an incontrovertible array
of facts pointed to some lingering influence in the shunned house;
traceable to one or another of the ill-favored French settlers of two
centuries before, and still operative through rare and unknown laws of
atomic and electronic motion. That the family of Roulet had possessed an
abnormal affinity for outer circles of entity--dark spheres which for
normal folk hold only repulsion and terror--their recorded history
seemed to prove. Had not, then, the riots of those bygone
seventeen-thirties set moving certain kinetic patterns in the morbid
brain of one or more of them--notably the sinister Paul Roulet--which
obscurely survived the bodies murdered and buried by the mob, and
continued to function in some multiple-dimensioned space along the
original lines of force determined by a frantic hatred of the
encroaching community?

Such a thing was surely not a physical or biochemical impossibility in
the light of a newer science which includes the theories of relativity
and intra-atomic action. One might easily imagine an alien nucleus of
substance or energy, formless or otherwise, kept alive by imperceptible
or immaterial subtractions from the life-force or bodily tissue and
fluids of other and more palpably living things into which it penetrates
and with whose fabric it sometimes completely merges itself. It might be
actively hostile, or it might be dictated merely by blind motives of
self-preservation. In any case such a monster must of necessity be in
our scheme of things an anomaly and an intruder, whose extirpation forms
a primary duty with every man not an enemy to the world's life, health,
and sanity.

What baffled us was our utter ignorance of the aspect in which we might
encounter the thing. No sane person had ever seen it, and few had ever
felt it definitely. It might be pure energy--a form ethereal and outside
the realm of substance--or it might be partly material; some unknown and
equivocal mass of plasticity, capable of changing at will to nebulous
approximations of the solid, liquid, gaseous, or tenuously unparticled
states. The anthropomorphic patch of mold on the floor, the form of the
yellowish vapor, and the curvature of the tree-roots in some of the old
tales, all argued at least a remote and reminiscent connection with the
human shape; but how representative or permanent that similarity might
be, none could say with any kind of certainty.

       *       *       *       *       *

We had devised two weapons to fight it; a large and specially fitted
Crookes tube operated by powerful storage batteries and provided with
peculiar screens and reflectors, in case it proved intangible and
opposable only by vigorously destructive ether radiations, and a pair of
military flame-throwers of the sort used in the World War, in case it
proved partly material and susceptible of mechanical destruction--for
like the superstitious Exeter rustics, we were prepared to burn the
thing's heart out if heart existed to burn. All this aggressive
mechanism we set in the cellar in positions carefully arranged with
reference to the cot and chairs, and to the spot before the fireplace
where the mold had taken strange shapes. That suggestive patch, by the
way, was only faintly visible when we placed our furniture and
instruments, and when we returned that evening for the actual vigil. For
a moment I half doubted that I had ever seen it in the more definitely
limned form--but then I thought of the legends.

Our cellar vigil began at ten p. m., daylight saving time, and as it
continued we found no promise of pertinent developments. A weak,
filtered glow from the rain-harassed street-lamps outside, and a feeble
phosphorescence from the detestable fungi within, showed the dripping
stone of the walls, from which all traces of whitewash had vanished; the
dank, fetid and mildew-tainted hard earth floor with its obscene fungi;
the rotting remains of what had been stools, chairs, and tables, and
other more shapeless furniture; the heavy planks and massive beams of
the ground floor overhead; the decrepit plank door leading to bins and
chambers beneath other parts of the house; the crumbling stone staircase
with ruined wooden hand-rail; and the crude and cavernous fireplace of
blackened brick where rusted iron fragments revealed the past presence
of hooks, andirons, spit, crane, and a door to the Dutch oven--these
things, and our austere cot and camp chairs, and the heavy and intricate
destructive machinery we had brought.

We had, as in my own former explorations, left the door to the street
unlocked; so that a direct and practical path of escape might lie open
in case of manifestations beyond our power to deal with. It was our idea
that our continued nocturnal presence would call forth whatever malign
entity lurked there; and that being prepared, we could dispose of the
thing with one or the other of our provided means as soon as we had
recognized and observed it sufficiently. How long it might require to
evoke and extinguish the thing, we had no notion. It occurred to us,
too, that our venture was far from safe; for in what strength the thing
might appear no one could tell. But we deemed the game worth the hazard,
and embarked on it alone and unhesitatingly; conscious that the seeking
of outside aid would only expose us to ridicule and perhaps defeat our
entire purpose. Such was our frame of mind as we talked--far into the
night, till my uncle's growing drowsiness made me remind him to lie down
for his two-hour sleep.

Something like fear chilled me as I sat there in the small hours
alone--I say alone, for one who sits by a sleeper is indeed alone;
perhaps more alone than he can realize. My uncle breathed heavily, his
deep inhalations and exhalations accompanied by the rain outside, and
punctuated by another nerve-racking sound of distant dripping water
within--for the house was repulsively damp even in dry weather, and in
this storm positively swamp-like. I studied the loose, antique masonry
of the walls in the fungus-light and the feeble rays which stole in from
the street through the screened window; and once, when the noisome
atmosphere of the place seemed about to sicken me, I opened the door and
looked up and down the street, feasting my eyes on familiar sights and
my nostrils on wholesome air. Still nothing occurred to reward my
watching; and I yawned repeatedly, fatigue getting the better of
apprehension.

Then the stirring of my uncle in his sleep attracted my notice. He had
turned restlessly on the cot several times during the latter half of the
first hour, but now he was breathing with unusual irregularity,
occasionally heaving a sigh which held more than a few of the qualities
of a choking moan.

I turned my electric flashlight on him and found his face averted; so
rising and crossing to the other side of the cot, I again flashed the
light to see if he seemed in any pain. What I saw unnerved me most
surprisingly, considering its relative triviality. It must have been
merely the association of any odd circumstance with the sinister nature
of our location and mission, for surely the circumstance was not in
itself frightful or unnatural. It was merely that my uncle's facial
expression, disturbed no doubt by the strange dreams which our
situation prompted, betrayed considerable agitation, and seemed not at
all characteristic of him. His habitual expression was one of kindly and
well-bred calm, whereas now a variety of emotions seemed struggling
within him. I think, on the whole, that it was this _variety_ which
chiefly disturbed me. My uncle, as he gasped and tossed in increasing
perturbation and with eyes that had now started open, seemed not one but
many men, and suggested a curious quality of alienage from himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

All at once he commenced to mutter, and I did not like the look of his
mouth and teeth as he spoke. The words were at first indistinguishable,
and then--with a tremendous start--I recognized something about them
which filled me with icy fear till I recalled the breadth of my uncle's
education and the interminable translations he had made from
anthropological and antiquarian articles in the _Revue des Deux Mondes_.
For the venerable Elihu Whipple was muttering _in French_, and the few
phrases I could distinguish seemed connected with the darkest myths he
had ever adapted from the famous Paris magazine.

Suddenly a perspiration broke out on the sleeper's forehead, and he
leaped abruptly up, half awake. The jumble of French changed to a cry in
English, and the hoarse voice shouted excitedly, "My breath, my breath!"
Then the awakening became complete, and with a subsidence of facial
expression to the normal state my uncle seized my hand and began to
relate a dream whose nucleus of significance I could only surmise with a
kind of awe.

He had, he said, floated off from a very ordinary series of
dream-pictures into a scene whose strangeness was related to nothing he
had ever read. It was of this world, and yet not of it--a shadowy
geometrical confusion in which could be seen elements of familiar things
in most unfamiliar and perturbing combinations. There was a suggestion
of queerly disordered pictures superimposed one upon another; an
arrangement in which the essentials of time as well as of space seemed
dissolved and mixed in the most illogical fashion. In this kaleidoscopic
vortex of phantasmal images were occasional snap-shots, if one might use
the term, of singular clearness but unaccountable heterogeneity.

Once my uncle thought he lay in a carelessly dug open pit, with a crowd
of angry faces framed by straggling locks and three-cornered hats
frowning down on him. Again he seemed to be in the interior of a
house--an old house, apparently--but the details and inhabitants were
constantly changing, and he could never be certain of the faces or the
furniture, or even of the room itself, since doors and windows seemed in
just as great a state of flux as the presumably more mobile objects. It
was queer--damnably queer--and my uncle spoke almost sheepishly, as if
half expecting not to be believed, when he declared that of the strange
faces many had unmistakably borne the features of the Harris family. And
all the while there was a personal sensation of choking, as if some
pervasive presence had spread itself through his body and sought to
possess itself of his vital processes.

I shuddered at the thought of those vital processes, worn as they were
by eighty-one years of continuous functioning, in conflict with unknown
forces of which the youngest and strongest system might well be afraid;
but in another moment reflected that dreams are only dreams, and that
these uncomfortable visions could be, at most, no more than my uncle's
reaction to the investigations and expectations which had lately filled
our minds to the exclusion of all else.

Conversation, also, soon tended to dispel my sense of strangeness; and
in time I yielded to my yawns and took my turn at slumber. My uncle
seemed now very wakeful, and welcomed his period of watching even though
the nightmare had aroused him far ahead of his allotted two hours.

Sleep seized me quickly, and I was at once haunted with dreams of the
most disturbing kind. I felt, in my visions, a cosmic and abysmal
loneness; with hostility surging from all sides upon some prison where I
lay confined. I seemed bound and gagged, and taunted by the echoing
yells of distant multitudes who thirsted for my blood. My uncle's face
came to me with less pleasant association than in waking hours, and I
recall many futile struggles and attempts to scream. It was not a
pleasant sleep, and for a second I was not sorry for the echoing shriek
which clove through the barriers of dream and flung me to a sharp and
startled awakeness in which every actual object before my eyes stood out
with more than natural clearness and reality.

5

I had been lying with my face away from my uncle's chair, so that in
this sudden flash of awakening I saw only the door to the street, the
window, and the wall and floor and ceiling toward the north of the room,
all photographed with morbid vividness on my brain in a light brighter
than the glow of the fungi or the rays from the street outside. It was
not a strong or even a fairly strong light; certainly not nearly strong
enough to read an average book by. But it cast a shadow of myself and
the cot on the floor, and had a yellowish, penetrating force that hinted
at things more potent than luminosity. This I perceived with unhealthy
sharpness despite the fact that two of my other senses were violently
assailed. For on my ears rang the reverberations of that shocking
scream, while my nostrils revolted at the stench which filled the place.
My mind, as alert as my senses, recognized the gravely unusual; and
almost automatically I leaped up and turned about to grasp the
destructive instruments which we had left trained on the moldy spot
before the fireplace. As I turned, I dreaded what I was to see; for the
scream had been in my uncle's voice, and I knew not against what menace
I should have to defend him and myself.

Yet after all, the sight was worse than I had dreaded. There are horrors
beyond horrors, and this was one of those nuclei of all dreamable
hideousness which the cosmos saves to blast an accursed and unhappy few.
Out of the fungus-ridden earth steamed up a vaporous corpse-light,
yellow and diseased, which bubbled and lapped to a gigantic height in
vague outlines half human and half monstrous, through which I could see
the chimney and fireplace beyond. It was all eyes--wolfish and
mocking--and the rugose insect-like head dissolved at the top to a thin
stream of mist which curled putridly about and finally vanished up the
chimney. I say that I saw this thing, but it is only in conscious
retrospection that I ever definitely traced its damnable approach to
form. At the time, it was to me only a seething, dimly phosphorescent
cloud of fungous loathsomeness, enveloping and dissolving to an
abhorrent plasticity the one object on which all my attention was
focussed. That object was my uncle--the venerable Elihu Whipple--who
with blackening and decaying features leered and gibbered at me, and
reached out dripping claws to rend me in the fury which this horror had
brought.

It was a sense of routine which kept me from going mad. I had drilled
myself in preparation for the crucial moment, and blind training saved
me. Recognizing the bubbling evil as no substance reachable by matter or
material chemistry, and therefore ignoring the flame-thrower which
loomed on my left, I threw on the current of the Crookes tube apparatus,
and focussed toward that scene of immortal blasphemousness the strongest
ether radiations which man's art can arouse from the spaces and fluids
of nature. There was a bluish haze and a frenzied sputtering, and the
yellowish phosphorescence grew dimmer to my eyes. But I saw the dimness
was only that of contrast, and that the waves from the machine had no
effect whatever.

Then, in the midst of that demoniac spectacle, I saw a fresh horror
which brought cries to my lips and sent me fumbling and staggering
toward that unlocked door to the quiet street, careless of what abnormal
terrors I loosed upon the world, or what thoughts or judgments of men I
brought down upon my head. In that dim blend of blue and yellow the form
of my uncle had commenced a nauseous liquefaction whose essence eludes
all description, and in which there played across his vanishing face
such changes of identity as only madness can conceive. He was at once a
devil and a multitude, a charnel-house and a pageant. Lit by the mixed
and uncertain beams, that gelatinous face assumed a dozen--a score--a
hundred--aspects; grinning, as it sank to the ground on a body that
melted like tallow, in the caricatured likeness of legions strange and
yet not strange.

I saw the features of the Harris line, masculine and feminine, adult and
infantile, and other features old and young, coarse and refined,
familiar and unfamiliar. For a second there flashed a degraded
counterfeit of a miniature of poor mad Rhoby Harris that I had seen in
the School of Design museum, and another time I thought I caught the
raw-boned image of Mercy Dexter as I recalled her from a painting in
Carrington Harris's house. It was frightful beyond conception; toward
the last, when a curious blend of servant and baby visages flickered
close to the fungous floor where a pool of greenish grease was
spreading, it seemed as though the shifting features fought against
themselves and strove to form contours like those of my uncle's kindly
face. I like to think that he existed at that moment, and that he tried
to bid me farewell. It seems to me I hiccupped a farewell from my own
parched throat as I lurched out into the street; a thin stream of grease
following me through the door to the rain-drenched sidewalk.

       *       *       *       *       *

The rest is shadowy and monstrous. There was no one in the soaking
street, and in all the world there was no one I dared tell. I walked
aimlessly south past College Hill and the AthenĂ¦um, down Hopkins Street,
and over the bridge to the business section where tall buildings seemed
to guard me as modern material things guard the world from ancient and
unwholesome wonder. Then gray dawn unfolded wetly from the east,
silhouetting the archaic hill and its venerable steeples, and beckoning
me to the place where my terrible work was still unfinished. And in the
end I went, wet, hatless, and dazed in the morning light, and entered
that awful door in Benefit Street which I had left ajar, and which still
swung cryptically in full sight of the early householders to whom I
dared not speak.

The grease was gone, for the moldy floor was porous. And in front of the
fireplace was no vestige of the giant doubled-up form traced in niter.
I looked at the cot, the chairs, the instruments, my neglected hat, and
the yellowed straw hat of my uncle. Dazedness was uppermost, and I could
scarcely recall what was dream and what was reality. Then thought
trickled back, and I knew that I had witnessed things more horrible than
I had dreamed.

Sitting down, I tried to conjecture as nearly as sanity would let me
just what had happened, and how I might end the horror, if indeed it had
been real. Matter it seemed not to be, nor ether, nor anything else
conceivable by mortal mind. What, then, but some exotic _emanation_;
some vampirish vapor such as Exeter rustics tell of as lurking over
certain churchyards? This I felt was the clue, and again I looked at the
floor before the fireplace where the mold and niter had taken strange
forms.

In ten minutes my mind was made up, and taking my hat I set out for
home, where I bathed, ate, and gave by telephone an order for a pickax,
a spade, a military gas-mask, and six carboys of sulfuric acid, all to
be delivered the next morning at the cellar door of the shunned house in
Benefit Street. After that I tried to sleep; and failing, passed the
hours in reading and in the composition of inane verses to counteract my
mood.

At eleven a. m. the next day I commenced digging. It was sunny weather,
and I was glad of that. I was still alone, for as much as I feared the
unknown horror I sought, there was more fear in the thought of telling
anybody. Later I told Harris only through sheer necessity, and because
he had heard odd tales from old people which disposed him ever so little
toward belief. As I turned up the stinking black earth in front of the
fireplace, my spade causing a viscous yellow ichor to ooze from the
white fungi which it severed, I trembled at the dubious thoughts of what
I might uncover. Some secrets of inner earth are not good for mankind,
and this seemed to me one of them.

My hand shook perceptibly, but still I delved; after a while standing in
the large hole I had made. With the deepening of the hole, which was
about six feet square, the evil smell increased; and I lost all doubt of
my imminent contact with the hellish thing whose emanations had cursed
the house for over a century and a half. I wondered what it would look
like--what its form and substance would be, and how big it might have
waxed through long ages of life-sucking. At length I climbed out of the
hole and dispersed the heaped-up dirt, then arranging the great carboys
of acid around and near two sides, so that when necessary I might empty
them all down the aperture in quick succession. After that I dumped
earth only along the other two sides; working more slowly and donning my
gas-mask as the smell grew. I was nearly unnerved at my proximity to a
nameless thing at the bottom of a pit.

Suddenly my spade struck something softer than earth. I shuddered, and
made a motion as if to climb out of the hole, which was now as deep as
my neck. Then courage returned, and I scraped away more dirt in the
light of the electric torch I had provided. The surface I uncovered was
fishy and glassy--a kind of semi-putrid congealed jelly with suggestions
of translucency. I scraped further, and saw that it had form. There was
a rift where a part of the substance was folded over. The exposed area
was huge and roughly cylindrical; like a mammoth soft blue-white
stovepipe doubled in two, its largest part some two feet in diameter.
Still more I scraped, and then abruptly I leaped out of the hole and
away from the filthy thing; frantically unstopping and tilting the heavy
carboys, and precipitating their corrosive contents one after another
down that charnel gulf and upon the unthinkable abnormality whose titan
_elbow_ I had seen.

       *       *       *       *       *

The blinding maelstrom of greenish-yellow vapor which surged
tempestuously up from that hole as the floods of acid descended, will
never leave my memory. All along the hill people tell of the yellow day,
when virulent and horrible fumes arose from the factory waste dumped in
the Providence River, but I know how mistaken they are as to the source.
They tell, too, of the hideous roar which at the same time came from
some disordered water-pipe or gas main underground--but again I could
correct them if I dared. It was unspeakably shocking, and I do not see
how I lived through it. I did faint after emptying the fourth carboy,
which I had to handle after the fumes had begun to penetrate my mask;
but when I recovered I saw that the hole was emitting no fresh vapors.

The two remaining carboys I emptied down without particular result, and
after a time I felt it safe to shovel the earth back into the pit. It
was twilight before I was done, but fear had gone out of the place. The
dampness was less fetid, and all the strange fungi had withered to a
kind of harmless grayish powder which blew ash-like along the floor. One
of earth's nethermost terrors had perished for ever; and if there be a
hell, it had received at last the demon soul of an unhallowed thing. And
as I patted down the last spadeful of mold, I shed the first of the many
tears with which I have paid unaffected tribute to my beloved uncle's
memory.

The next spring no more pale grass and strange weeds came up in the
shunned house's terraced garden, and shortly afterward Carrington Harris
rented the place. It is still spectral, but its strangeness fascinates
me, and I shall find mixed with my relief a queer regret when it is torn
down to make way for a tawdry shop or vulgar apartment building. The
barren old trees in the yard have begun to bear small, sweet apples, and
last year the birds nested in their gnarled boughs.

[Illustration]

Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Weird Tales_ October 1937. Extensive
    research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on
    this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and typographical
    errors have been corrected without note.

THE COLOUR OUT OF SPACE

                          By H. P. Lovecraft

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                    Amazing Stories September 1927.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

            _Here is a totally different story that we can
           highly recommend to you. We could wax rhapsodical
           in our praise, as the story is one of the finest
         pieces of literature it has been our good fortune to
            read. The theme is original, and yet fantastic
            enough to make it rise head and shoulders above
          many contemporary scientifiction stories. You will
             not regret having read this marvellous tale._

West of Arkham the hills rise wild, and there are valleys with deep
woods that no axe has ever cut. There are dark narrow glens where the
trees slope fantastically, and where thin brooklets trickle without
ever having caught the glint of sunlight. On the gentler slopes there
are farms, ancient and rocky, with squat, moss-coated cottages brooding
eternally over old New England secrets in the lee of great ledges; but
these are all vacant now, the wide chimneys crumbling and the shingled
sides bulging perilously beneath low gambrel roofs.

The old folk have gone away, and foreigners do not like to live there.
French-Canadians have tried it, Italians have tried it, and the Poles
have come and departed. It is not because of anything that can be seen
or heard or handled, but because of something that is imagined. The
place is not good for imagination, and does not bring restful dreams at
night. It must be this which keeps the foreigners away, for old Ammi
Pierce has never told them of anything he recalls from the strange
days. Ammi, whose head has been a little queer for years, is the only
one who still remains, or who ever talks of the strange days; and he
dares to do this because his house is so near the open fields and the
travelled roads around Arkham.

There was once a road over the hills and through the valleys, that ran
straight where the blasted heath is now; but people ceased to use it
and a new road was laid curving far toward the south. Traces of the
old one can still be found amidst the weeds of a returning wilderness,
and some of them will doubtless linger even when half the hollows are
flooded for the new reservoir. Then the dark woods will be cut down and
the blasted heath will slumber far below blue waters whose surface will
mirror the sky and ripple in the sun. And the secrets of the strange
days will be one with the deep's secrets; one with the hidden lore of
old ocean, and all the mystery of primal earth.

When I went into the hills and vales to survey for the new reservoir
they told me the place was evil. They told me this in Arkham, and
because that is a very old town full of witch legends I thought the
evil must be something which grandmas had whispered to children
through centuries. The name "blasted heath" seemed to me very odd
and theatrical, and I wondered how it had come into the folklore of
a Puritan people. Then I saw that dark westward tangle of glens and
slopes for myself, and ceased to wonder at anything besides its own
elder mystery. It was morning when I saw it, but shadow lurked always
there. The trees grew too thickly, and their trunks were too big for
any healthy New England wood. There was too much silence in the dim
alleys between them, and the floor was too soft with the dank moss and
mattings of infinite years of decay.

In the open spaces, mostly along the line of the old road, there were
little hillside farms; sometimes with all the buildings standing,
sometimes with only one or two, and sometimes with only a lone chimney
or fast-filling cellar. Weeds and briers reigned, and furtive wild
things rustled in the undergrowth. Upon everything was a haze of
restlessness and oppression; a touch of the unreal and the grotesque,
as if some vital element of perspective or chiaroscuro were awry. I did
not wonder that the foreigners would not stay, for this was no region
to sleep in. It was too much like a landscape of Salvator Rosa; too
much like some forbidden woodcut in a tale of terror.

But even all this was not so bad as the blasted heath. I knew it the
moment I came upon it at the bottom of a spacious valley; for no other
name could fit such thing, or any other thing fit such a name. It
was as if the poet had coined the phrase from having seen this one
particular region. It must, I thought as I viewed it, be the outcome
of a fire; but why had nothing new ever grown over those five acres of
grey desolation that sprawled open to the sky like a great spot eaten
by acid in the woods and fields? It lay largely to the north of the
ancient road line, but encroached a little on the other side. I felt
an odd reluctance about approaching, and did so at last only because
my business took me through and past it. There was no vegetation of
any kind on that broad expanse, but only a fine grey dust or ash which
no wind seemed ever to blow about. The trees near it were sickly
and stunted, and many dead trunks stood or lay rotting at the rim.
As I walked hurriedly by I saw the tumbled bricks and stones of an
old chimney and cellar on my right, and the yawning black maw of an
abandoned well whose stagnant vapours played strange tricks with the
hues of the sunlight. Even the long, dark woodland climb beyond seemed
welcome in contrast, and I marvelled no more at the frightened whispers
of Arkham people. There had been no house or ruin near; even in the
old days the place must have been lonely and remote. And at twilight,
dreading to repass that ominous spot, I walked circuitously back to the
town by the curving road on the south. I vaguely wished some clouds
would gather, for an odd timidity about the deep skyey voids above had
crept into my soul.

In the evening I asked old people in Arkham about the blasted heath,
and what was meant by that phrase "strange days" which so many
evasively muttered. I could not, however, get any good answers, except
that all the mystery was much more recent than I had dreamed. It was
not a matter of old legendry at all, but something within the lifetime
of those who spoke. It had happened in the 'eighties, and a family had
disappeared or was killed. Speakers would not be exact; and because
they all told me to pay no attention to old Ammi Pierce's crazy tales,
I sought him out the next morning, having heard that he lived alone in
the ancient tottering cottage where the trees first begin to get very
thick. It was a fearsomely ancient place, and had begun to exude the
faint miasmal odour which clings about houses that have stood too long.
Only with persistent knocking could I rouse the aged man, and when he
shuffled timidly to the door I could tell he was not glad to see me. He
was not so feeble as I had expected; but his eyes drooped in a curious
way, and his unkempt clothing and white beard made him seem very worn
and dismal.

Not knowing just how he could best be launched on his tales, I feigned
a matter of business; told him of my surveying, and asked vague
questions about the district. He was far brighter and more educated
than I had been led to think, and before I knew it had grasped quite
as much of the subject as any man I had talked with in Arkham. He was
not like other rustics I had known in the sections where reservoirs
were to be. From him there were no protests at the miles of old wood
and farmland to be blotted out, though perhaps there would have been
had not his home lain outside the bounds of the future lake. Relief
was all that he showed; relief at the doom of the dark ancient valleys
through which he had roamed all his life. They were better under water
now--better under water since the strange days. And with this opening
his husky voice sank low, while his body leaned forward and his right
forefinger began to point shakily and impressively.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was then that I heard the story, and as the rambling voice scraped
and whispered on I shivered again and again despite the summer day.
Often I had to recall the speaker from ramblings, piece out scientific
points which he knew only by a fading parrot memory of professors'
talk, or bridge over gaps, where his sense of logic and continuity
broke down. When he was done I did not wonder that his mind had snapped
a trifle, or that the folk of Arkham would not speak much of the
blasted heath. I hurried back before sunset to my hotel, unwilling to
have the stars come out above me in the open; and the next day returned
to Boston to give up my position. I could not go into that dim chaos
of old forest and slope again, or face another time that grey blasted
heath where the black well yawned deep beside the tumbled bricks and
stones. The reservoir will soon be built now, and all those elder
secrets will lie safe forever under watery fathoms. But even then I do
not believe I would like to visit that country by night--at least not
when the sinister stars are out; and nothing could bribe me to drink
the new city water of Arkham.

It all began, old Ammi said, with the meteorite. Before that time there
had been no wild legends at all since the witch trials, and even then
these western woods were not feared half so much as the small island
in the Miskatonic where the devil held court beside a curious stone
altar older than the Indians. These were not haunted woods, and their
fantastic dusk was never terrible till the strange days. Then there
had come that white noontide cloud, that string of explosions in the
air, and that pillar of smoke from the valley far in the wood. And by
night all Arkham had heard of the great rock that fell out of the sky
and bedded itself in the ground beside the well at the Nahum Gardner
place. That was the house which had stood where the blasted heath was
to come--the trim white Nahum Gardner house amidst its fertile gardens
and orchards.

Nahum had come to town to tell people about the stone, and had dropped
in at Ammi Pierce's on the way. Ammi was forty then, and all the queer
things were fixed very strongly in his mind. He and his wife had gone
with the three professors from Miskatonic University who hastened out
the next morning to see the weird visitor from unknown stellar space,
and had wondered why Nahum had called it so large the day before. It
had shrunk, Nahum said as he pointed out the big brownish mound above
the ripped earth and charred grass near the archaic well-sweep in his
front yard; but the wise men answered that stones do not shrink. Its
heat lingered persistently, and Nahum declared it had glowed faintly in
the night. The professors tried it with a geologist's hammer and found
it was oddly soft. It was, in truth, so soft as to be almost plastic;
and they gouged rather than chipped a specimen to take back to the
college for testing. They took it in an old pail borrowed from Nahum's
kitchen, for even the small piece refused to grow cool. On the trip
back they stopped at Ammi's to rest, and seemed thoughtful when Mrs.
Pierce remarked that the fragment was growing smaller and burning the
bottom of the pail. Truly, it was not large, but perhaps they had taken
less than they thought.

The day after that--all this was in June of '82--the professors had
trooped out again in a great excitement. As they passed Ammi's they
told him what queer things the specimen had done, and how it had
faded wholly away when they put it in a glass beaker. The beaker had
gone, too, and the wise men talked of the strange stone's affinity
for silicon. It had acted quite unbelievably in that well-ordered
laboratory; doing nothing at all and showing no occluded gases when
heated on charcoal, being wholly negative in the borax bead, and soon
proving itself absolutely non-volatile at any producible temperature,
including that of the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe. On an anvil it appeared
highly malleable, and in the dark its luminosity was very marked.
Stubbornly refusing to grow cool, it soon had the college in a state
of real excitement; and when upon heating before the spectroscope it
displayed shining bands unlike any known colours of the normal spectrum
there was much breathless talk of new elements, bizarre optical
properties, and other things which puzzled men of science are wont to
say when faced by the unknown.

Hot as it was, they tested it in a crucible with all the proper
reagents. Water did nothing. Hydrochloric acid was the same. Nitric
acid and even aqua regia merely hissed and spattered against its torrid
invulnerability. Ammi had difficulty in recalling all these things, but
recognized some solvents as I mentioned them in the usual order of use.
There were ammonia and caustic soda, alcohol and ether, nauseous carbon
disulphide and a dozen others; but although the weight grew steadily
less as time passed, and the fragment seemed to be slightly cooling,
there was no change in the solvents to show that they had attacked
the substance at all. It was a metal, though, beyond a doubt. It was
magnetic, for one thing; and after its immersion in the acid solvents
there seemed to be faint traces of the WidmÃ¤nstÃ¤tten figures found
on meteoric iron. When the cooling had grown very considerable, the
testing was carried on in glass; and it was in a glass beaker that they
left all the chips made of the original fragment during the work. The
next morning both chips and beaker were gone without trace, and only a
charred spot marked the place on the wooden shelf where they had been.

All this the professors told Ammi as they paused at his door, and
once more he went with them to see the stony messenger from the
stars, though this time his wife did not accompany him. It had now
most certainly shrunk, and even the sober professors could not doubt
the truth of what they saw. All around the dwindling brown lump near
the well was a vacant space, except where the earth had caved in;
and whereas it had been a good seven feet across the day before, it
was now scarcely five. It was still hot, and the sages studied its
surface curiously as they detached another and larger piece with hammer
and chisel. They gouged deeply this time, and as they pried away
the smaller mass they saw that the core of the thing was not quite
homogeneous.

       *       *       *       *       *

They had uncovered what seemed to be the side of a large coloured
globule embedded in the substance. The colour, which resembled some
of the bands in the meteor's strange spectrum, was almost impossible
to describe; and it was only by analogy that they called it colour at
all. Its texture was glossy, and upon tapping it appeared to promise
both brittleness and hollowness. One of the professors gave it a smart
blow with a hammer, and it burst with a nervous little pop. Nothing was
emitted, and all trace of the thing vanished with the puncturing. It
left behind a hollow spherical space about three inches across, and all
thought it probable that others would be discovered as the enclosing
substance wasted away.

Conjecture was vain; so after a futile attempt to find additional
globules by drilling, the seekers left again with their new
specimen--which proved, however, as baffling in the laboratory as
its predecessor. Aside from being almost plastic, having heat,
magnetism, and slight luminosity, cooling slightly in powerful acids,
possessing an unknown spectrum, wasting away in air, and attacking
silicon compounds with mutual destruction as a result, it presented
no identifying features whatsoever; and at the end of the tests the
college scientists were forced to own that they could not place it. It
was nothing of this earth, but a piece of the great outside; and as
such dowered with outside properties and obedient to outside laws.

That night there was a thunderstorm, and when the professors went out
to Nahum's the next day they met with a bitter disappointment. The
stone, magnetic as it had been, must have had some peculiar electrical
property; for it had "drawn the lightning," as Nahum said, with a
singular persistence. Six times within an hour the farmer saw the
lightning strike the furrow in the front yard, and when the storm was
over nothing remained but a ragged pit by the ancient well-sweep,
half-chocked with caved-in earth. Digging had borne no fruit, and the
scientists verified the fact of the utter vanishment. The failure was
total; so that nothing was left to do but go back to the laboratory and
test again the disappearing fragment left carefully cased in lead. That
fragment lasted a week, at the end of which nothing of value had been
learned of it. When it had gone, no residue was left behind, and in
time the professors felt scarcely sure they had indeed seen with waking
eyes that cryptic vestige of the fathomless gulfs outside; that lone,
weird message from other universes and other realms of matter, force,
and entity.

As was natural, the Arkham papers made much of the incident with its
collegiate sponsoring, and sent reporters to talk with Nahum Gardner
and his family. At least one Boston daily also sent a scribe, and Nahum
quickly became a kind of local celebrity. He was a lean, genial person
of about fifty, living with his wife and three sons on the pleasant
farmstead in the valley. He and Ammi exchanged visits frequently, as
did their wives; and Ammi had nothing but praise for him after all
these years. He seemed slightly proud of the notice his place had
attracted, and talked often of the meteorite in the succeeding weeks.
That July and August were hot; and Nahum worked hard at his haying in
the ten-acre pasture across Chapman's Brook; his rattling wain wearing
deep ruts in the shadowy lanes between. The labour tired him more than
it had in other years, and he felt that age was beginning to tell on
him.

Then fell the time of fruit and harvest. The pears and apples slowly
ripened, and Nahum vowed that his orchards were prospering as never
before. The fruit was growing to phenomenal size and unwonted gloss,
and in such abundance that extra barrels were ordered to handle the
future crop. But with the ripening came sore disappointment, for of all
that gorgeous array of specious lusciousness not one single jot was
fit to eat. Into the fine flavour of the pears and apples had crept
a stealthy bitterness and sickishness, so that even the smallest of
bites induced a lasting disgust. It was the same with the melons and
tomatoes, and Nahum sadly saw that his entire crop was lost. Quick to
connect events, he declared that the meteorite had poisoned the soil,
and thanked Heaven that most of the other crops were in the upland lot
along the road.

       *       *       *       *       *

Winter came early, and was very cold. Ammi saw Nahum less often than
usual, and observed that he had begun to look worried. The rest of his
family too, seemed to have grown taciturn; and were far from steady
in their churchgoing or their attendance at the various social events
of the countryside. For this reserve or melancholy no cause could be
found, though all the household confessed now and then to poorer health
and a feeling of vague disquiet. Nahum himself gave the most definite
statement of anyone when he said he was disturbed about certain
footprints in the snow. They were the usual winter prints of red
squirrels, white rabbits, and foxes, but the brooding farmer professed
to see something not quite right about their nature and arrangement.
He was never specific, but appeared to think that they were not as
characteristic of the anatomy and habits of squirrels and rabbits and
foxes as they ought to be. Ammi listened without interest to this talk
until one night when he drove past Nahum's house in his sleigh on the
way back from Clark's Corners. There had been a moon, and a rabbit had
run across the road; and the leaps of that rabbit were longer than
either Ammi or his horse liked. The latter, indeed, had almost run away
when brought up by a firm rein. Thereafter Ammi gave Nahum's tales
more respect, and wondered why the Gardner dogs seemed so cowed and
quivering every morning. They had, it developed, nearly lost the spirit
to bark.

In February the McGregor boys from Meadow Hill were out shooting
woodchucks, and not far from the Gardner place bagged a very peculiar
specimen. The proportions of its body seemed slightly altered in a
queer way impossible to describe, while its face had taken on an
expression which no one ever saw in a woodchuck before. The boys were
genuinely frightened, and threw the thing away at once, so that only
their grotesque tales of it ever reached the people of the countryside.
But the shying of horses near Nahum's house had now become an
acknowledged thing, and all the basis for a cycle of whispered legend
was fast taking form.

People vowed that the snow melted faster around Nahum's than it did
anywhere else, and early in March there was an awed discussion in
Potter's general store at Clark's Corners. Stephen Rice had driven past
Gardner's in the morning, and had noticed the skunk-cabbages coming
up through the mud by the woods across the road. Never were things of
such size seen before, and they held strange colours that could not
be put into any words. Their shapes were monstrous, and the horse had
snorted at an odour which struck Stephen as wholly unprecedented. That
afternoon several persons drove past to see the abnormal growth, and
all agreed that plants of that kind ought never to sprout in a healthy
world. The bad fruit of the fall before was freely mentioned, and it
went from mouth to mouth that there was poison in Nahum's ground. Of
course it was the meteorite; and remembering how strange the men from
the college had found that stone to be, several farmers spoke about the
matter to them.

One day they paid Nahum a visit; but having no love of wild tales and
folklore were very conservative in what they inferred. The plants were
certainly odd, but all skunk-cabbages are more or less odd in shape
and hue. Perhaps some mineral element from the stone had entered the
soil, but it would soon be washed away. And as for the footprints and
frightened horses--of course this was mere country talk which such
a phenomenon as the aerolite would be certain to start. There was
really nothing for serious men to do in cases of wild gossip, for
superstitious rustics will say and believe anything. And so all through
the strange days the professors stayed away in contempt. Only one
of them, when given two phials of dust for analysis in a police job
over a year and a half later, recalled that the queer colour of that
skunk-cabbage had been very like one of the anomalous bands of light
shown by the meteor fragment in the college spectroscope, and like the
brittle globule found imbedded in the stone from the abyss. The samples
in this analysis case gave the same odd bands at first, though later
they lost the property.

The trees budded prematurely around Nahum's, and at night they swayed
ominously in the wind. Nahum's second son Thaddeus, a lad of fifteen,
swore that they swayed also when there was no wind; but even the
gossips would not credit this. Certainly, however, restlessness was
in the air. The entire Gardner family developed the habit of stealthy
listening, though not for any sound which they could consciously
name. The listening was, indeed, rather a product of moments when
consciousness seemed half to slip away. Unfortunately such moments
increased week by week, till it became common speech that "something
was wrong with all Nahum's folks." When the early saxifrage came out it
had another strange colour; not quite like that of the skunk-cabbage,
but plainly related and equally unknown to anyone who saw it. Nahum
took some blossoms to Arkham and showed them to the editor of the
_Gazette_, but that dignitary did no more than write a humorous article
about them, in which the dark fears of rustics were held up to polite
ridicule. It was a mistake of Nahum's to tell a stolid city man about
the way the great, overgrown mourning-cloak butterflies behaved in
connection with these saxifrages.

April brought a kind of madness to the country folk, and began that
disuse of the road past Nahum's which led to its ultimate abandonment.
It was next the vegetation. All the orchard trees blossomed forth in
strange colours, and through the stony soil of the yard and adjacent
pasturage there sprang up a bizarre growth which only a botanist could
connect with the proper flora of the region. No sane wholesome colours
were anywhere to be seen except in the green grass and leafage; but
everywhere were those hectic and prismatic variants of some diseased,
underlying primary tone without a place among the known tints of earth.
The "Dutchman's breeches" became a thing of sinister menace, and the
bloodroots grew insolent in their chromatic perversion. Ammi and the
Gardners thought that most of the colours had a sort of haunting
familiarity, and decided that they reminded one of the brittle globule
in the meteor. Nahum ploughed and sowed the ten-acre pasture and the
upland lot, but did nothing with the land around the house. He knew it
would be of no use, and hoped that the summer's strange growths would
draw all the poison from the soil. He was prepared for almost anything
now, and had grown used to the sense of something near him waiting
to be heard. The shunning of his house by neighbours told on him, of
course; but it told on his wife more. The boys were better off, being
at school each day; but they could not help being frightened by the
gossip. Thaddeus, an especially sensitive youth, suffered the most.

       *       *       *       *       *

In May the insects came, and Nahum's place became a nightmare of
buzzing and crawling. Most of the creatures seemed not quite usual in
their aspects and motions, and their nocturnal habits contradicted all
former experience. The Gardners took to watching at night--watching in
all directions at random for something they could not tell what. It was
then that they all owned that Thaddeus had been right about the trees.
Mrs. Gardner was the next to see it from the window as she watched the
swollen boughs of a maple against a moonlit sky. The boughs surely
moved, and there was no wind. It must be the sap. Strangeness had come
into everything growing now. Yet it was none of Nahum's family at all
who made the next discovery. Familiarity had dulled them, and what they
could not see was glimpsed by a timid windmill salesman from Bolton who
drove by one night in ignorance of the country legends. What he told in
Arkham was given a short paragraph in the _Gazette_; and it was there
that all the farmers, Nahum included, saw it first. The night had been
dark and the buggy-lamps faint, but around a farm in the valley which
everyone knew from the account must be Nahum's, the darkness had been
less thick. A dim though distinct luminosity seemed to inhere in all
the vegetation, grass, leaves, and blossoms alike, while at one moment
a detached piece of the phosphorescence appeared to stir furtively in
the yard near the barn.

The grass had so far seemed untouched, and the cows were freely
pastured in the lot near the house, but toward the end of May the milk
began to be bad. Then Nahum had the cows driven to the uplands, after
which this trouble ceased. Not long after this the change in grass and
leaves became apparent to the eye. All the verdure was going grey,
and was developing a highly singular quality of brittleness. Ammi
was now the only person who ever visited the place, and his visits
were becoming fewer and fewer. When school closed the Gardners were
virtually cut off from the world, and sometimes let Ammi do their
errands in town. They were failing curiously both physically and
mentally, and no one was surprised when the news of Mrs. Gardner's
madness stole around.

It happened in June, about the anniversary of the meteor's fall, and
the poor woman screamed about things in the air which she could not
describe. In her raving there was not a single specific noun, but
only verbs and pronouns. Things moved and changed and fluttered, and
ears tingled to impulses which were not wholly sounds. Something
was taken away--she was being drained of something--something was
fastening itself on her that ought not to be--someone must make it
keep off--nothing was ever still in the night--the walls and windows
shifted. Nahum did not send her to the county asylum, but let her
wander about the house as long as she was harmless to herself and
others. Even when her expression changed he did nothing. But when the
boys grew afraid of her, and Thaddeus nearly fainted at the way she
made faces at him, he decided to keep her locked in the attic. By July
she had ceased to speak and crawled on all fours, and before that month
was over Nahum got the mad notion that she was slightly luminous in the
dark, as he now clearly saw was the case with the nearby vegetation.

It was a little before this that the horses had stampeded. Something
had aroused them in the night, and their neighing and kicking in their
stalls had been terrible. There seemed virtually nothing to do to calm
them, and when Nahum opened the stable door they all bolted out like
frightened woodland deer. It took a week to track all four, and when
found they were seen to be quite useless and unmanageable. Something
had snapped in their brains, and each one had to be shot for its own
good. Nahum borrowed a horse from Ammi for his haying, but found it
would not approach the barn. It shied, balked, and whinnied, and in
the end he could do nothing but drive it into the yard while the men
used their own strength to get the heavy wagon near enough the hayloft
for convenient pitching. And all the while the vegetation was turning
grey and brittle. Even the flowers whose hues had been so strange
were graying now, and the fruit was coming out grey and dwarfed and
tasteless. The asters and goldenrod bloomed grey and distorted, and
the roses and zinnias and hollyhocks in the front yard were such
blasphemous-looking things that Nahum's oldest boy Zenas cut them down.
The strangely puffed insects died about that time, even the bees that
had left their hives and taken to the woods.

By September all the vegetation was fast crumbling to a greyish
powder, and Nahum feared that the trees would die before the poison
was out of the soil. His wife now had spells of terrific screaming,
and he and the boys were in a constant state of nervous tension.
They shunned people now, and when school opened the boys did not go.
But it was Ammi, on one of his rare visits, who first realized that
the well water was no longer good. It had an evil taste that was not
exactly fetid nor exactly salty, and Ammi advised his friend to dig
another well on higher ground to use till the soil was good again.
Nahum, however, ignored the warning, for he had by that time become
calloused to strange and unpleasant things. He and the boys continued
to use the tainted supply, drinking it as listlessly and mechanically
as they ate their meagre and ill-cooked meals and did their thankless
and monotonous chores through the aimless days. There was something of
stolid resignation about them all, as if they walked half in another
world between lines of nameless guards to a certain and familiar doom.

Thaddeus went mad in September after a visit to the well. He had gone
with a pail and had come back empty-handed, shrieking and waving his
arms, and sometimes lapsing into an inane titter or a whisper about
"the moving colours down there." Two in one family was pretty bad,
but Nahum was very brave about it. He let the boy run about for a
week until he began stumbling and hurting himself, and then he shut
him in an attic room across the hall from his mother's. The way they
screamed at each other from behind their locked doors was very
terrible, especially to little Merwin, who fancied they talked in some
terrible language that was not of earth. Merwin was getting frightfully
imaginative, and his restlessness was worse after the shutting away of
the brother who had been his greatest playmate.

Almost at the same time the mortality among the livestock commenced.
Poultry turned greyish and died very quickly, their meat being found
dry and noisome upon cutting. Hogs grew inordinately fat, then suddenly
began to undergo loathsome changes which no one could explain. Their
meat was of course useless, and Nahum was at his wit's end. No rural
veterinary would approach his place, and the city veterinary from
Arkham was openly baffled. The swine began growing grey and brittle
and falling to pieces before they died, and their eyes and muzzles
developed singular alterations. It was very inexplicable, for they had
never been fed from the tainted vegetation. Then something struck the
cows. Certain areas or sometimes the whole body would be uncannily
shrivelled or compressed, and atrocious collapses or disintegrations
were common. In the last stages--and death was always the result--there
would be a greying and turning brittle like that which beset the hogs.
There could be no question of poison, for all the cases occurred in a
locked and undisturbed barn. No bites of prowling things could have
brought the virus, for what live beast of earth can pass through solid
obstacles? It must be only natural disease--yet what disease could
wreak such results was beyond any mind's guessing. When the harvest
came there was not an animal surviving on the place, for the stock
and poultry were dead and the dogs had run away. These dogs, three
in number, had all vanished one night and were never heard of again.
The five cats had left some time before, but their going was scarcely
noticed since there now seemed to be no mice, and only Mrs. Gardner had
made pets of the graceful felines.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the nineteenth of October Nahum staggered into Ammi's house with
hideous news. The death had come to poor Thaddeus in his attic room,
and it had come in a way which could not be told. Nahum had dug a grave
in the railed family plot behind the farm, and had put therein what
he found. There could have been nothing from outside, for the small
barred window and locked door were intact; but it was much as it had
been in the barn. Ammi and his wife consoled the stricken man as best
they could, but shuddered as they did so. Stark terror seemed to cling
round the Gardners and all they touched, and the very presence of one
in the house was a breath from regions unnamed and unnameable. Ammi
accompanied Nahum home with the greatest reluctance, and did what he
might to calm the hysterical sobbing of little Merwin. Zenas needed no
calming. He had come of late to do nothing but stare into space and
obey what his father told him; and Ammi thought that his fate was very
merciful. Now and then Merwin's screams were answered faintly from the
attic, and in response to an inquiring look Nahum said that his wife
was getting very feeble. When night approached, Ammi managed to get
away; for not even friendship could make him stay in that spot when the
faint glow of the vegetation began and the trees may or may not have
swayed without wind. It was really lucky for Ammi that he was not more
imaginative. Even as things were, his mind was bent ever so slightly;
but had he been able to connect and reflect upon all the portents
around him he must inevitably have turned a total maniac. In the
twilight he hastened home, the screams of the mad woman and the nervous
child ringing horrible in his ears.

Three days later Nahum burst into Ammi's kitchen in the early morning,
and in the absence of his host stammered out a desperate tale once
more, while Mrs. Pierce listened in a clutching fright. It was little
Merwin this time. He was gone. He had gone out late at night with a
lantern and pail for water, and had never come back. He'd been going
to pieces for days, and hardly knew what he was about. Screamed at
everything. There had been a frantic shriek from the yard then, but
before the father could get to the door the boy was gone. There was no
glow from the lantern he had taken, and of the child himself no trace.
At the time Nahum thought the lantern and pail were gone too; but when
dawn came, and the man had plodded back from his all-night search of
the woods and fields, he had found some very curious things near the
well. There was a crushed and apparently somewhat melted mass of iron
which had certainly been the lantern; while a bent pail and twisted
iron hoops beside it, both half-fused, seemed to hint at the remnants
of the pail. That was all. Nahum was past imagining, Mrs. Pierce was
blank, and Ammi, when he had reached home and heard the tale, could
give no guess. Merwin was gone, and there would be no use in telling
the people around, who shunned all Gardners now. No use, either, in
telling the city people at Arkham who laughed at everything. Thad was
gone, and now Merwin was gone. Something was creeping and creeping and
waiting to be seen and heard. Nahum would go soon, and he wanted Ammi
to look after his wife and Zenas if they survived him. It must all be a
judgment of some sort; though he could not fancy what for, since he had
always walked uprightly in the Lord's ways so far as he knew.

For over two weeks Ammi saw nothing of Nahum; and then, worried about
what might have happened, he overcame his fears and paid the Gardner
place a visit. There was no smoke from the great chimney, and for a
moment the visitor was apprehensive of the worst. The aspect of the
whole farm was shocking--greyish withered grass and leaves on the
ground, vines falling in brittle wreckage from archaic walls and
gables, and great bare trees clawing up at the grey November sky with
a studied malevolence which Ammi could not but feel had come from some
subtle change in the tilt of the branches. But Nahum was alive, after
all. He was weak, and lying in a couch in the low-ceiled kitchen,
but perfectly conscious and able to give simple orders to Zenas. The
room was deadly cold; and as Ammi visibly shivered, the host shouted
huskily to Zenas for more wood. Wood, indeed, was sorely needed; since
the cavernous fireplace was unlit and empty, with a cloud of soot
blowing about in the chill wind that came down the chimney. Presently
Nahum asked him if the extra wood had made him any more comfortable,
and then Ammi saw what had happened. The stoutest cord had broken at
last, and the hapless farmer's mind was proof against more sorrow.

Questioning tactfully, Ammi could get no clear data at all about the
missing Zenas. "In the well--he lives in the well--" was all that the
clouded father would say. Then there flashed across the visitor's mind
a sudden thought of the mad wife, and he changed his line of inquiry.
"Nabby? Why, here she is!" was the surprised response of poor Nahum,
and Ammi soon saw that he must search for himself. Leaving the harmless
babbler on the couch, he took the keys from their nail beside the door
and climbed the creaking stairs to the attic. It was very close and
noisome up there, and no sound could be heard from any direction. Of
the four doors in sight, only one was locked, and on this he tried
various keys on the ring he had taken. The third key proved the right
one, and after some fumbling Ammi threw open the low white door.

It was quite dark inside, for the window was small and half-obscured
by the crude wooden bars; and Ammi could see nothing at all on the
wide-planked floor. The stench was beyond enduring, and before
proceeding further he had to retreat to another room and return
with his lungs filled with breathable air. When he did enter he saw
something dark in the corner, and upon seeing it more clearly he
screamed outright. While he screamed he thought a momentary cloud
eclipsed the window, and a second later he felt himself brushed as if
by some hateful current of vapour. Strange colours danced before his
eyes; and had not a present horror numbed him he would have thought of
the globule in the meteor that the geologist's hammer had shattered,
and of the morbid vegetation that had sprouted in the spring. As it
was he thought only of the blasphemous monstrosity which confronted
him, and which all too clearly had shared the nameless fate of young
Thaddeus and the livestock. But the terrible thing about the horror was
that it very slowly and perceptibly moved as it continued to crumble.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ammi would give me no added particulars of this scene, but the shape
in the corners does not re-appear in his tale as a moving object.
There are things which cannot be mentioned, and what is done in common
humanity is sometimes cruelly judged by the law. I gathered that no
moving thing was left in that attic room, and that to leave anything
capable of motion there would have been a deed so monstrous as to damn
any accountable being to eternal torment. Anyone but a stolid farmer
would have fainted or gone mad, but Ammi walked conscious through that
low doorway and locked the accursed secret behind him. There would be
Nahum to deal with now; he must be fed and tended, and removed to some
place where he could be cared for.

Commencing his descent of the dark stairs, Ammi heard a thud below him.
He even thought a scream had been suddenly choked off, and recalled
nervously the clammy vapour which had brushed by him in that frightful
room above. What presence had his cry and entry started up? Halted by
some vague fear, he heard still further sounds below. Indubitably there
was a sort of heavy dragging, and a most detestably sticky noise as
of some fiendish and unclean species of suction. With an associative
sense goaded to feverish heights, he thought unaccountably of what he
had seen upstairs. Good God! What eldritch dream-world was this into
which he had blundered? He dared move neither backward nor forward, but
stood there trembling at the black curve of the boxed-in staircase.
Every trifle of the scene burned itself into his brain. The sounds, the
sense of dread expectancy, the darkness, the steepness of the narrow
steps--and merciful Heaven!--the faint but unmistakable luminosity of
all the woodwork in sight; steps, sides, exposed laths, and beams alike.

Then there burst forth a frantic whinny from Ammi's horse outside,
followed at once by a clatter which told of a frenzied runaway. In
another moment horse and buggy had gone beyond earshot, leaving the
frightened man on the dark stairs to guess what had sent them. But that
was not all. There had been another sound out there. A sort of liquid
splash--water--it must have been the well. He had left Hero untied
near it, and a buggy-wheel must have brushed the coping and knocked in
a stone. And still the pale phosphorescense glowed in that detestably
ancient woodwork. God! how old the house was! Most of it built before
1700.

A feeble scratching on the floor downstairs now sounded distinctly, and
Ammi's grip tightened on a heavy stick he had picked up in the attic
for some purpose. Slowly nerving himself, he finished his descent and
walked boldly toward the kitchen. But he did not complete the walk,
because what he sought was no longer there. It had come to meet him,
and it was still alive after a fashion. Whether it had crawled or
whether it had been dragged by any external forces, Ammi could not
say; but the death had been at it. Everything had happened in the last
half-hour, but collapse, greying, and disintegration were already far
advanced. There was a horrible brittleness, and dry fragments were
scaling off. Ammi could not touch it, but looked horrifiedly into the
distorted parody that had been a face. "What was it, Nahum--what
was it?" He whispered, and the cleft, bulging lips were just able to
crackle out a final answer.

"Nothin' ... nothin' ... the colour ... it burns ... cold an' wet, but
it burns ... it lived in the well.... I seen it ... a kind o' smoke ...
jest like the flowers last spring ... the well shone at night.... Thad
an' Merwin an' Zenas ... everything alive ... suckin' the life out of
everything ... in that stone ... it must o' come in that stone ...
pizened the whole place ... dun't know what it wants ... that round
thing them men from the college dug outen the stone ... they smashed
it ... it was that same colour ... jest the same, like the flowers an'
plants ... must a' ben more of 'em ... seeds ... seeds ... they
growed ... I seen it the fust time this week ... must a' got strong
on Zenas ... he was a big boy, full o' life ... it beats down your
mind an' then gits ye ... burns ye up ... in the well water ... you
was right about that ... evil water ... Zenas never come back from the
well ... can't git away ... draws ye ... ye know summ'at's comin', but
'tain't no use ... I seen it time an' agin Zenas was took ... whar's
Nabby, Ammi? ... my head's no good ... dun't know how long sence I fed
her ... it'll git her ef we ain't keerful ... jest a colour ... her
face is gittin' to hev that colour sometimes towards night ... an' it
burns an' sucks ... it come from some place whar things ain't as they
is here ... one o' them professors said so ... he was right ... look
out, Ammi, it'll do suthin' more ... sucks the life out...."

But that was all. That which spoke could speak no more because it had
completely caved in. Ammi laid a red checked tablecloth over what was
left and reeled out the back door into the fields. He climbed the slope
to the ten-acre pasture and stumbled home by the north road and the
woods. He could not pass that well from which his horses had run away.
He had looked at it through the window, and had seen that no stone
was missing from the rim. Then the lurching buggy had not dislodged
anything after all--the splash had been something else--something which
went into the well after it had done with poor Nahum....

When Ammi reached his house the horses and buggy had arrived before
him and thrown his wife into fits of anxiety. Reassuring her without
explanations, he set out at once for Arkham and notified the
authorities that the Gardner family was no more. He indulged in no
details, but merely told of the deaths of Nahum and Nabby, that of
Thaddeus being already known, and mentioned that the cause seemed to
be the same strange ailment which had killed the livestock. He also
stated that Merwin and Zenas had disappeared. There was considerable
questioning at the police station, and in the end Ammi was compelled
to take three officers to the Gardner farm, together with the coroner,
the medical examiner, and the veterinary who had treated the diseased
animals. He went much against his will, for the afternoon was advancing
and he feared the fall of night over that accursed place, but it was
some comfort to have so many people with him.

The six men drove out in a democrat-wagon, following Ammi's buggy, and
arrived at the pest-ridden farmhouse about four o'clock. Used as the
officers were to gruesome experiences, not one remained unmoved at
what was found in the attic and under the red checked tablecloth on
the floor below. The whole aspect of the farm with its grey desolation
was terrible enough, but those two crumbling objects were beyond all
bounds. No one could look long at them, and even the medical examiner
admitted that there was very little to examine. Specimens could be
analysed, of course, so he busied himself in obtaining them--and here
it develops that a very puzzling aftermath occurred at the college
laboratory where the two phials of dust were finally taken. Under the
spectroscope both samples gave off an unknown spectrum, in which many
of the baffling bands were precisely like those which the strange
meteor had yielded in the previous year. The property of emitting this
spectrum vanished in a month, the dust thereafter consisting mainly of
alkaline phosphates and carbonates.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ammi would not have told the men about the well if he had thought they
meant to do anything then and there. It was getting toward sunset, and
he was anxious to be away. But he could not help glancing nervously
at the stony curb by the great sweep, and when a detective questioned
him he admitted that Nahum had feared something down there--so much so
that he had never even thought of searching it for Merwin or Zenas.
After that nothing would do but that they empty and explore the well
immediately, so Ammi had to wait trembling while pail after pail of
rank water was hauled up and splashed on the soaking ground outside.
The men sniffed in disgust at the fluid, and toward the last held their
noses against the foetor they were uncovering. It was not so long a
job as they had feared it would be, since the water was phenomenally
low. There is no need to speak too exactly of what they found. Merwin
and Zenas were both there, in part, though the vestiges were mainly
skeletal. There were also a small deer and a large dog in about the
same state, and a number of bones of smaller animals. The ooze and
slime at the bottom seemed inexplicably porous and bubbling, and a man
who descended on hand-holds with a long pole found that he could sink
the wooden shaft to any depth in the mud of the floor without meeting
any solid obstruction.

Twilight had now fallen, and lanterns were brought from the house.
Then, when it was seen that nothing further could be gained from the
well, everyone went indoors and conferred in the ancient sitting-room
while the intermittent light of a spectral half-moon played wanly on
the grey desolation outside. The men were frankly nonplussed by the
entire case, and could find no convincing common element to link the
strange vegetable conditions, the unknown disease of livestock and
humans, and the unaccountable deaths of Merwin and Zenas in the tainted
well. They had heard the common country talk, it is true; but could not
believe that anything contrary to natural law had occurred. No doubt
the meteor had poisoned the soil, but the illness of person and animals
who had eaten nothing grown in that soil was another matter. Was it the
well water? Very possibly. It might be a good idea to analyse it. But
what peculiar madness could have made both boys jump into the well?
Their deeds were so similar--and the fragments showed that they had
both suffered from the grey brittle death. Why was everything so grey
and brittle?

It was the coroner, seated near a window overlooking the yard, who
first noticed the glow about the well. Night had fully set in, and all
the abhorrent grounds seemed faintly luminous with more than the fitful
moonbeams; but this new glow was something definite and distinct, and
appeared to shoot up from the black pit like a softened ray from a
searchlight, giving dull reflections in the little ground pools where
the water had been emptied. It had a very queer colour, and as all the
men clustered round the window Ammi gave a violent start. For this
strange beam of ghastly miasma was to him of no unfamiliar hue. He had
seen that colour before, and feared to think what it might mean. He
had seen it in the nasty brittle globule in that aerolite two summers
ago, had seen it in the crazy vegetation of the springtime, and had
thought he had seen it for an instant that very morning against the
small barred window of that terrible attic room where nameless things
had happened. It had flashed there a second, and a clammy and hateful
current of vapour had brushed past him--and then poor Nahum had been
taken by something of that colour. He had said so at the last--said it
was like the globule and the plants. After that had come the runaway
in the yard and the splash in the well--and now that well was belching
forth to the night a pale insidious beam of the same demoniac tint.

It does credit to the alertness of Ammi's mind that he puzzled even
at that tense moment over a point which was essentially scientific.
He could not but wonder at his gleaning of the same impression from
a vapour glimpsed in the daytime, against a window opening in the
morning sky, and from a nocturnal exhalation seen as a phosphorescent
mist against the black and blasted landscape. It wasn't right--it was
against Nature--and he thought of those terrible last words of his
stricken friend, "It come from some place whar things ain't as they is
here ... one o' them professors said so...."

All three horses outside, tied to a pair of shrivelled saplings by
the road, were now neighing and pawing frantically. The wagon driver
started for the door to do something, but Ammi laid a shaky hand on his
shoulder. "Dun't go out thar," he whispered. "They's more to this nor
what we know. Nahum said somethin' lived in the well that sucks your
life out. He said it must be some'at growed from a round ball like one
we all seen in the meteor stone that fell a year ago June. Sucks an'
burns, he said, an' is jest a cloud of colour like that light out thar
now, that ye can hardly see an' can't tell what it is. Nahum thought it
feeds on everything livin' an' gits stronger all the time. He said he
seen it this last week. It must be somethin' from away off in the sky
like the men from the college last year says the meteor stone was. The
way it's made an' the way it works ain't like no way o' God's world.
It's some'at from beyond."

So the men paused indecisively as the light from the well grew stronger
and the hitched horses pawed and whinnied in increasing frenzy. It was
truly an awful moment; with terror in that ancient and accursed house
itself, four monstrous sets of fragments--two from the house and two
from the well--in the woodshed behind, and that shaft of unknown and
unholy iridescence from the slimy depths in front. Ammi had restrained
the driver on impulse, forgetting how uninjured he himself was after
the clammy brushing of that coloured vapour in the attic room, but
perhaps it is just as well that he acted as he did. No one will ever
know what was abroad that night; and though the blasphemy from beyond
had not so far hurt any human of unweakened mind, there is no telling
what it might not have done at that last moment, and with its seemingly
increased strength and the special signs of purpose it was soon to
display beneath the half-clouded moonlit sky.

       *       *       *       *       *

All at once one of the detectives at the window gave a short, sharp
gasp. The others looked at him, and then quickly followed his own
gaze upward to the point at which its idle straying had been suddenly
arrested. There was no need for words. What had been disputed in
country gossip was disputable no longer, and it is because of the
thing which every man of that party agreed in whispering later on,
that strange days are never talked about in Arkham. It is necessary to
premise that there was no wind at that hour of the evening. One did
arise not long afterward, but there was absolutely none then. Even
the dry tips of the lingering hedge-mustard, grey and blighted, and
the fringe on the roof of the standing democrat-wagon were unstirred.
And yet amid that tense, godless calm the high bare boughs of all
the trees in the yard were moving. They were twitching morbidly and
spasmodically, clawing in convulsive and epileptic madness at the
moonlit clouds; scratching impotently in the noxious air as if jerked
by some allied and bodiless line of linkage with sub-terrene horrors
writhing and struggling below the black roots.

Not a man breathed for several seconds. Then a cloud of darker depth
passed over the moon, and the silhouette of clutching branches faded
out momentarily. At this there was a general cry; muffled with awe,
but husky and almost identical from every throat. For the terror had
not faded with the silhouette, and in a fearsome instant of deeper
darkness the watchers saw wriggling at the treetop height a thousand
tiny points of faint and unhallowed radiance, tipping each bough like
the fire of St. Elmo or the flames that come down on the apostles'
heads at Pentecost. It was a monstrous constellation of unnatural
light, like a glutted swarm of corpse-fed fireflies dancing hellish
sarabands over an accursed marsh; and its colour was that same nameless
intrusion which Ammi had come to recognise and dread. All the while
the shaft of phosphorescence from the well was getting brighter and
brighter, bringing to the minds of the huddled men, a sense of doom and
abnormality which far outraced any image their conscious minds could
form. It was no longer _shining_ out; it was _pouring_ out; and as the
shapeless stream of unplaceable colour left the well it seemed to flow
directly into the sky.

[Illustration: ... and in the fearsome instant of deeper darkness, the
watchers saw wriggling at that treetop height, a thousand tiny points
of faint and unhallowed radiance, tipping each bough like the fire
of St. Elmo ... and all the while the shaft of phosphorescence from
the well was getting brighter and brighter and bringing to the minds
of the huddled men, a sense of doom and abnormality.... It was no
longer shining out; it was pouring out; and as the shapeless stream of
unplaceable colour left the well, it seemed to flow directly into the
sky.]

The veterinary shivered, and walked to the front door to drop the heavy
extra bar across it. Ammi shook no less, and had to tug and point for
lack of a controllable voice when he wished to draw notice to the
growing luminosity of the trees. The neighing and stamping of the
horses had become utterly frightful, but not a soul of that group in
the old house would have ventured forth for any earthly reward. With
the moments the shining of the trees increased, while their restless
branches seemed to strain more and more toward verticality. The wood
of the well-sweep was shining now, and presently a policeman dumbly
pointed to some wooden sheds and beehives near the stone wall on the
west. They were commencing to shine, too, though the tethered vehicles
of the visitors seemed so far unaffected. Then there was a wild
commotion and clopping in the road, and as Ammi quenched the lamp for
better seeing they realized that the span of frantic grays had broken
their sapling and run off with the democrat-wagon.

The shock served to loosen several tongues, and embarrassed whispers
were exchanged. "It spreads on everything organic that's been around
here," muttered the medical examiner. No one replied, but the man who
had been in the well gave a hint that his long pole must have stirred
up something intangible. "It was awful," he added. "There was no bottom
at all. Just ooze and bubbles and the feeling of something lurking
under there." Ammi's horse still pawed and screamed deafeningly in
the road outside, and nearly drowned its owner's faint quaver as he
mumbled his formless reflections. "It come from that stone--it growed
down thar--it got everything livin'--it fed itself on 'em, mind and
body--Thad an' Merwin, Zenas an' Nabby--Nahum was the last--they all
drunk the water--it got strong on 'em--it come from beyond, whar things
ain't like they be here--now it's goin' home--"

At this point, as the column of unknown colour flared suddenly stronger
and began to weave itself into fantastic suggestions of shape which
each spectator later described differently, there came from poor
tethered Hero such a sound as no man before or since ever heard from
a horse. Every person in that low-pitched sitting-room stopped his
ears, and Ammi turned away from the window in horror and nausea. Words
could not convey it--when Ammi looked out again the hapless beast lay
huddled inert on the moonlit ground between the splintered shafts of
the buggy. That was the last of Hero till they buried him next day.
But the present was no time to mourn, for almost at this instant a
detective silently called attention to something terrible in the very
room with them. In the absence of the lamplight it was clear that a
faint phosphorescence had begun to pervade the entire apartment. It
glowed on the broad-planked floor where the rag carpet left it bare,
and shimmered over the sashes of the small-paned windows. It ran up
and down the exposed corner-posts, coruscated about the shelf and
mantel, and infected the very doors and furniture. Each minute saw it
strengthen, and at last it was very plain that healthy living things
must leave that house.

Ammi showed them the back door and the path up through the fields to
the ten-acre pasture. They walked and stumbled as in a dream, and did
not dare look back till they were far away on the high ground. They
were glad of the path, for they could not have gone the front way, by
that well. It was bad enough passing the glowing barn and sheds, and
those shining orchard trees with their gnarled, fiendish contours; but
thank Heaven the branches did their worst twisting high up. The moon
went under some very black clouds as they crossed the rustic bridge
over Chapman's Brook, and it was blind groping from there to the open
meadows.

       *       *       *       *       *

When they looked back toward the valley and the distant Gardner place
at the bottom they saw a fearsome sight. All the farm was shining
with the hideous unknown blend of colour; trees, buildings, and even
such grass and herbage as had not been wholly changed to lethal grey
brittleness. The boughs were all straining skyward, tipped with tongues
of foul flame, and lambent tricklings of the same monstrous fire were
creeping about the ridgepoles of the house, barn and sheds. It was a
scene from a vision of Fuseli, and over all the rest reigned that riot
of luminous amorphousness, that alien and undimensioned rainbow of
cryptic poison from the well--seething, feeling, lapping, reaching,
scintillating, straining, and malignly bubbling in its cosmic and
unrecognizable chromaticism.

Then without warning the hideous thing shot vertically up toward the
sky like a rocket or meteor, leaving behind no trail and disappearing
through a round and curiously regular hole in the clouds before any
man could gasp or cry out. No watcher can ever forget that sight, and
Ammi stared blankly at the stars of Cygnus, Deneb twinkling above the
others, where the unknown colour had melted into the Milky Way. But his
gaze was the next moment called swiftly to earth by the crackling in
the valley. It was just that. Only a wooden ripping and crackling, and
not an explosion, as so many others of the party vowed. Yet the outcome
was the same, for in one feverish kaleidoscopic instant there burst up
from that doomed and accursed farm a gleamingly eruptive cataclysm of
unnatural sparks and substance; blurring the glance of the few who saw
it, and sending forth to the zenith a bombarding cloudburst of such
coloured and fantastic fragments as our universe must needs disown.
Through quickly re-closing vapours they followed the great morbidity
that had vanished, and in another second they had vanished too. Behind
and below was only a darkness to which the men dared not return, and
all about was a mounting wind which seemed to sweep down in black,
frore gusts from interstellar space. It shrieked and howled, and lashed
the fields and distorted woods in a mad cosmic frenzy, till soon the
trembling party realized it would be no use waiting for the moon to
show what was left down there at Nahum's.

Too awed even to hint theories, the seven shaking men trudged back
toward Arkham by the north road. Ammi was worse than his fellows,
and begged them to see him inside his own kitchen, instead of
keeping straight on to town. He did not wish to cross the blighted,
wind-whipped woods alone to his home on the main road. For he had had
an added shock that the others were spared, and was crushed for ever
with a brooding fear he dared not even mention for many years to come.
As the rest of the watchers on that tempestuous hill had stolidly set
their faces toward the road, Ammi had looked back an instant at the
shadowed valley of desolation so lately sheltering his ill-starred
friend. And from that stricken, far-away spot he had seen something
feebly rise, only to sink down again upon the place from which the
great shapeless horror had shot into the sky. It was just a colour--but
not any colour of our earth or heavens. And because Ammi recognized
that colour, and knew that this last faint remnant must still lurk down
there in the well, he has never been quite right since.

Ammi would never go near the place again. It is forty-four years now
since the horror happened, but he has never been there, and will be
glad when the new reservoir blots it out. I shall be glad, too, for I
do not like the way the sunlight changed colour around the mouth of
that abandoned well I passed. I hope the water will always be very
deep--but even so, I shall never drink it. I do not think I shall visit
the Arkham country hereafter. Three of the men who had been with Ammi
returned the next morning to see the ruins by daylight, but there were
not any real ruins. Only the bricks of the chimney, the stones of the
cellar, some mineral and metallic litter here and there, and the rim
of that nefandous well. Save for Ammi's dead horse, which they towed
away and buried, and the buggy which they shortly returned to him,
everything that had ever been living had gone. Five eldritch acres of
dusty grey desert remained, nor has anything ever grown there since.
To this day it sprawls open to the sky like a great spot eaten by acid
in the woods and fields, and the few who have ever dared glimpse it in
spite of the rural tales have named it "the blasted heath."

       *       *       *       *       *

The rural tales are queer. They might be even queerer if city men
and college chemists could be interested enough to analyze the water
from that disused well, or the grey dust that no wind seems ever to
disperse. Botanists, too, ought to study the stunted flora on the
borders of that spot, for they might shed light on the country notion
that the blight is spreading--little by little, perhaps an inch a year.
People say the colour of the neighboring herbage is not quite right
in the spring, and that wild things leave queer prints in the light
winter snow. Snow never seems quite so heavy on the blasted heath as
it is elsewhere. Horses--the few that are left in this motor age--grow
skittish in the silent valley; and hunters cannot depend on their dogs
too near the splotch of greyish dust.

They say the mental influences are very bad, too; numbers went queer in
the years after Nahum's taking, and always they lacked the power to get
away. Then the stronger-minded folk all left the region, and only the
foreigners tried to live in the crumbling old homesteads. They could
not stay, though; and one sometimes wonders what insight beyond ours
their wild, weird stories of whispered magic have given them. Their
dreams at night, they protest, are very horrible in that grotesque
country; and surely the very look of the dark realm is enough to stir
a morbid fancy. No traveler has ever escaped a sense of strangeness in
those deep ravines, and artists shiver as they paint thick woods whose
mystery is as much of the spirits as of the eye. I myself am curious
about the sensation I derived from my one lone walk before Ammi told
me his tale. When twilight came I had vaguely wished some clouds would
gather, for odd timidity about the deep skyey voids above had crept
into my soul.

Do not ask me for my opinion. I do not know--that is all. There was no
one but Ammi to question; for Arkham people will not talk about the
strange days, and all three professors who saw the aerolite and its
coloured globule are dead. There were other globules--depend upon that.
One must have fed itself and escaped, and probably there was another
which was too late. No doubt it is still down the well--I know there
was something wrong with the sunlight I saw above that miasmal brink.
The rustics say the blight creeps an inch a year, so perhaps there is
a kind of growth or nourishment even now. But whatever demon hatchling
is there, it must be tethered to something or else it would quickly
spread. Is it fastened to the roots of those trees that claw the air?
One of the current Arkham tales is about fat oaks that shine and move
as they ought not to do at night.

What it is, only God knows. In terms of matter I suppose the thing
Ammi described would be called a gas, but this gas obeyed laws that
are not of our cosmos. This was no fruit of such worlds and suns as
shine on the telescopes and photographic plates of our observatories.
This was no breath from the skies whose motions and dimensions our
astronomers measure or deem too vast to measure. It was just a colour
out of space--a frightful messenger from unformed realms of infinity
beyond all Nature as we know it; from realms whose mere existence stuns
the brain and numbs us with the black extra-cosmic gulfs it throws open
before our frenzied eyes.

I doubt very much if Ammi consciously lied to me, and I do not think
his tale was all a freak of madness as the townsfolk had forewarned.
Something terrible came to the hills and valleys on that meteor,
and something terrible--though I know not in what proportion--still
remains. I shall be glad to see the water come. Meanwhile I hope
nothing will happen to Ammi. He saw so much of the thing--and its
influence was so insidious. Why has he never been able to move away?
How clearly he recalled those dying words of Nahum's--"can't git
away--draws ye--ye know summ'at's comin', but 'tain't no use--" Ammi is
such a good old man--when the reservoir gang gets to work I must write
the chief engineer to keep a sharp watch on him. I would hate to think
of him as the grey, twisted, brittle monstrosity which persists more
and more in troubling my sleep.

                                THE END

[Source: Weird Tales, March 1952]

The Horror at Red Hook

By H. P. Lovecraft

_"The nightmare horde slithered away, led by the abominable naked
phosphorescent thing that now strode insolently, bearing in its arms
the glassy-eyed corpse of the corpulent old man._

_"There are sacraments of evil as well as of good about us, and we
live and move to my belief in an unknown world, a place where there
are caves and shadows and dwellers in twilight.  It is possible that
man may sometimes return on the track of evolution, and it is my
belief that an awful lore is not yet dead."_

_--Arthur Machen_

I

Not many weeks ago, on a street corner in the village of Pascoag,
Rhode Island, a tall heavily built, and wholesome looking pedestrian
furnished much speculation by a singular lapse of behavior.  He had,
it appears, been descending the hill by the road from Chepachet; and
encountering the compact section, had turned to his left into the
main thoroughfare where several modest business blocks convey a touch
of the urban.  At this point, without visible provocation, he
committed his astonishing lapse; staring queerly for a second at the
tallest of the buildings, before him, and then, with a series of
terrified, hysterical shrieks, breaking into a frantic run which
ended in a stumble and fall at the next crossing.  Picked up and
dusted off by ready hands, he was found to be conscious, organically
unhurt, and evidently cured of his sudden nervous attack.  He
muttered some shamefaced explanations involving a strain he had
undergone, and with downcast glance turned back, up the Chepachet
road, trudging out of sight, without once looking behind him.  It was
a strange incident to befall so large, robust, normal-featured, and
capable-looking a man, and the strangeness was not lessened by the
remarks of a bystander who had recognized him as the boarder of a
well-known dairyman on the outskirts of Chepachet.

He was, it developed, a New York police-detective named Thomas F.
Malone, now on a long leave of absence under medical treatment after
some disproportionately arduous work on a gruesome local case which
accident had made dramatic.  There had been a collapse of several old
brick buildings during a raid in which he had shared, and something
about the wholesale loss of life, both of prisoners and of his
companions, had peculiarly appalled him.  As a result, he had
acquired an acute and anomalous horror of any buildings even remotely
suggesting the ones which had fallen in, so that in the end mental
specialists forbade him the sight of such things for an indefinite
period.  A police surgeon with relatives in Chepachet had put forward
that quaint hamlet of wooden Colonial houses as an ideal spot for the
psychological convalescence; and thither the sufferer had gone,
promising never to venture among the brick-lined streets of larger
villages till duly advised by the Woonsocket specialist with whom he
was put in touch.  This walk to Pascoag for magazines had been a
mistake, and the patient had paid in fright, bruises, and humiliation
for his disobedience.

So much the gossips of Chepachet and Pascoag knew; and so much, also,
the most learned specialists believed.  But Malone had at first told
the specialists much more, ceasing only when he saw that utter
incredulity was his portion.  Thereafter he held his peace,
protesting not at all when it was generally agreed that the collapse
of certain squalid brick houses in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn,
and the consequent death of many brave officers, had unseated his
nervous equilibrium.  He had worked too hard, all said, in trying to
clean up those nests of disorder and violence; certain features were
shocking enough, in all conscience, and the unexpected tragedy was
the last straw.  This was a simple explanation which everyone could
understand, and because Malone was not a simple person he perceived
that he had better let it suffice.  To hint to unimaginative people
of a horror beyond all human conception--a horror of houses and
blocks and cities leprous and cancerous with evil dragged from elder
worlds--would be merely to invite a padded cell instead of a restful
rustication, and Malone was a man of sense despite his mysticism.  He
had the Celt's far vision of weird and hidden things, but the
logician's quick eye for the outwardly unconvincing; an amalgam which
had led him far afield in the forty-two years of his life, and set
him in strange places for a Dublin University man born in a Georgian
villa near Phoenix Park.

And now, as he reviewed the things he had seen and felt and
apprehended, Malone was content to keep unshared the secret of what
could reduce a dauntless fighter to a quivering neurotic; what could
make old brick slums and seas of dark, subtle faces a thing of
nightmare and eldritch portent.  It would not be the first time his
sensations had been forced to bide uninterpreted--for was not his
very act of plunging into the polyglot abyss of New York's underworld
a freak beyond sensible explanation?  What could he tell the prosaic
of the antique witcheries and grotesque marvels discernible to
sensitive eyes amidst the poison cauldron where all the varied dregs
of unwholesome ages mix their venom and perpetuate their obscene
terrors?  He had seen the hellish green flame of secret wonder in
this blatant, evasive welter of outward greed and inward blasphemy,
and had smiled gently when all the New Yorkers he knew scoffed at his
experiment in police work.  They had been very witty and cynical,
deriding his fantastic pursuit of unknowable mysteries and assuring
him that in these days New York held nothing but cheapness and
vulgarity.  One of them had wagered him a heavy sum that he could
not--despite many poignant things to his credit in the _Dublin
Review_--even write a truly interesting story of New York low life;
and now, looking back, he perceived that cosmic irony had justified
the prophet's words while secretly confuting their flippant meaning.
The horror, as glimpsed at last, could not make a story--for like the
book cited by Poe's German authority, "er lässt sich nicht lesen"--it
does not permit itself to be read.

II

To Malone the sense of latent mystery in existence was always
present.  In youth he had felt the hidden beauty and ecstasy of
things, and had been a poet; but poverty and sorrow and exile had
turned his gaze in darker directions, and he had thrilled at the
imputations of evil in the world around.  Daily life had for him come
to be a fantasmagoria of macabre shadow-studies; now glittering and
jeering with concealed rottenness as in Aubrey Beardsley's best
manner, now hinting terrors behind the commonest shapes and objects
as in the subtler and less obvious work of Gustave Doré.  He would
often regard it as merciful that most persons of high intelligence
jeer at the inmost mysteries; for, he argued, if superior minds were
ever placed in fullest contact with the secrets preserved by ancient
and lowly cults, the resultant abnormalities would soon not only
wreck the world, but threaten the very integrity of the universe.
All this reflection was no doubt morbid, but keen logic and a deep
sense of humor ably offset it.  Malone was satisfied to let his
notions remain as half-spied and forbidden visions to be lightly
played with; and hysteria came only when duty flung him into a hell
of revelation too sudden and insidious to escape.

He had for some time been detailed to the Butler Street station in
Brooklyn when the Red Hook matter came to his notice.  Red Hook is a
maze of hybrid squalor near the ancient waterfront opposite
Governor's Island, with dirty highways climbing the hill from the
wharves to that higher ground where the decayed lengths of Clinton
and Court Streets lead off toward the Borough Hall.  Its houses are
mostly of brick, dating from the first quarter of the middle of the
nineteenth century, and some of the obscurer alleys and byways have
that alluring antique flavor which conventional reading leads us to
call "Dickensian."  The population is a hopeless tangle and enigma;
Syrian, Spanish, Italian, and Negro elements impinging upon one
another, and fragments of Scandinavian and American belts lying not
far distant.  It is a babel of sound and filth, and sends out strange
cries to answer the lapping of oily waves at its grimy piers and the
monstrous organ litanies of the harbor whistles.  Here long ago a
brighter picture dwelt, with clear-eyed mariners on the lower streets
and homes of taste and substance where the larger houses line the
hill.  One can trace the relics of this former happiness in the trim
shapes of the buildings, the occasional graceful churches and the
evidences of original art and background in bits of detail here and
there--a worn flight of steps, a battered doorway, a wormy pair of
decorative columns or pilasters, or a fragment of once green space
with bent and rusted iron railing.  The houses are generally in solid
blocks, and now and then a many-windowed cupola arises to tell of
days when the households of captains and ship-owners watched the sea.

From this tangle of material and spiritual putrescence the
blasphemies of an hundred dialects assail the sky.  Hordes of
prowlers reel shouting and singing along the lanes and thoroughfares,
occasional furtive hands suddenly extinguish lights and pull down
curtains, and swarthy, sin-pitted faces disappear from windows when
visitors pick their way through.  Policemen despair of order or
reform, and seek rather to erect barriers protecting the outside
world from the contagion.

The clang of the patrol is answered by a kind of spectral silence,
and such prisoners as are taken are never communicative.  Visible
offenses are as varied as the local dialects, and run the gamut from
the smuggling of rum and prohibited aliens through diverse stages of
lawlessness and obscure vice to murder and mutilation in their most
abhorrent guises.  That these visible affairs are not more frequent
is not to the neighborhood's credit, unless the power of concealment
be an art demanding credit.  More people enter Red Hook than leave
it--or at least, than leave it by the landward side--and those who
are not loquacious are the likeliest to leave.

Malone found in this state of things a faint stench of secrets more
terrible than any of the sins denounced by citizens and bemoaned by
priest and philanthropists.  He was conscious, as one who united
imagination with scientific knowledge, that modern people under
lawless conditions tend uncannily to repeat the darkest instinctive
patterns of primitive half-ape savagery in their daily life and
ritual observances; and he had often viewed with an anthropologist's
shudder the chanting, cursing processions of blear-eyed and
pock-marked young men which wound their way along in the dark small
hours of morning.  One saw groups of these youths incessantly;
sometimes in leering vigils on street corners, sometimes in doorways
playing eerily on cheap instruments of music, sometimes in stupefied
dozes or indecent dialogues around cafeteria tables near Borough
Hall, and sometimes in whispering converse around dingy taxicabs
drawn up at the high stoops of crumbling and closely shuttered old
houses.  They chilled and fascinated him more than he dared confess
to his associates on the force, for he seemed to see in them some
monstrous thread of secret continuity; some fiendish, cryptical and
ancient pattern utterly beyond and below the sordid mass of facts and
habits and haunts listed with such conscientious technical care by
the police.  They must be, he felt inwardly, the heirs of some
shocking and primordial tradition; the sharers of debased and broken
scraps from cults and ceremonies older than mankind.  Their coherence
and definiteness suggested it, and it showed in the singular
suspicion of order which lurked beneath their squalid disorder.  He
had not read in vain such treatises as Miss Murray's Witch Cult in
Western Europe; and knew that up to recent years there had certainly
survived among peasants and furtive folk a frightful and clandestine
system of assemblies and orgies descended from dark religions
antedating the Aryan World, and appearing in popular legends as Black
Masses and Witches' Sabbaths.  That these hellish vestiges of old
Turanian-Asiatic magic and fertility-cults were even now wholly dead
he could not for a moment suppose, and he frequently wondered how
much older and how much blacker than the very worst of the muttered
tales some of them might really be.

III

It was the case of Robert Suydam which took Malone to the heart of
things in Red Hook.  Suydam was a lettered recluse of ancient Dutch
family, possessed originally of barely independent means, and
inhabiting the spacious but ill-preserved mansion which his
grandfather had built in Flatbush when that village was little more
then a pleasant group of Colonial cottages surrounding the steepled
and ivy-clad Reformed Church with its iron-railed yard of
Netherlandish gravestones.  In this lonely house, set back from
Martense Street amidst a yard of venerable trees, Suydam had read and
brooded for some six decades except for a period a generation before,
when he had sailed for the Old World and remained there out of sight
for eight years.  He could afford no servants, and would admit but
few visitors to his absolute solitude; eschewing close friendships
and receiving his rare acquaintances in one of the three ground-floor
rooms, which he kept in order--a vast, high-ceiled library whose
walls were solidly packed with tattered books of ponderous, archaic,
and vaguely repellent aspect.  The growth of the town and its final
absorption in the Brooklyn district had meant nothing to Suydam, and
he had come to mean less and less to the town.  Elderly people still
pointed him out on the streets, but to most of the recent population
he was merely a queer, corpulent old fellow whose unkempt white hair,
stubbly beard, shiny black clothes and gold-headed cane earned him an
amused glance and nothing more.  Malone did not know him by sight
till duty called him to the case, but had heard of him indirectly as
a really profound authority on medieval superstition, and had once
idly meant to look up an out-of-print pamphlet of his on the Kabbalah
and the Faustus legend, which a friend had quoted from memory.

Suydam became a "case" when his distant and only relatives sought
court pronouncements on his sanity.  Their action seemed sudden to
the outside world, but was really undertaken only after prolonged
observation and sorrowful debate.  It was based on certain odd
changes in his speech and habits; wild references to impending
wonders, and unaccountable hauntings of disreputable Brooklyn
neighborhoods.  He had been growing shabbier and shabbier with the
years, and now prowled about like a veritable mendicant; seen
occasionally by humiliated friends in subway stations, or loitering
on the benches around Borough Hall in conversation with groups of
swarthy, evil-looking strangers.  When he spoke it was to babble of
unlimited powers almost within his grasp, and to repeat with knowing
leers such mystical words of names as "Sephiroth," "Ashmodai" and
"Samael."  The court action revealed that he was using up his income
and wasting his principal in the purchase of curious tomes imported
from London and Paris, and in the maintenance of a squalid basement
flat in the Red Hook district where he spent nearly every night,
receiving odd delegations of mixed rowdies and foreigners, and
apparently conducting some kind of ceremonial service behind the
green blinds of secretive windows.  Detectives assigned to follow him
reported strange cries and chants and prancing of feet filtering out
from these nocturnal rites, and shuddered at their peculiar ecstasy
and abandon despite the commonness of weird orgies in that sodden
section.  When, however, the matter came to a hearing, Suydam managed
to preserve his liberty.  Before the judge his manner grew urbane and
reasonable, and he freely admitted the queerness of demeanor and
extravagant cast of language into which he had fallen through
excessive devotion to study and research.  He was, he said, engaged
in the investigation of certain details of European tradition which
required the closest contact with foreign groups and their songs and
folk dances.  The notion that any low secret society was preying upon
him, as hinted by his relatives, was obviously absurd; and showed how
sadly limited was their understanding of him and his work.
Triumphing with his calm explanations, he was suffered to depart
unhindered; and the paid detectives of the Suydams, Corlears and Van
Brunts were withdrawn in resigned disgust.

It was here that an alliance of Federal inspectors and police, Malone
with them, entered the case.  The law had watched the Suydam action
with interest, and had in many instances been called upon to aid the
private detectives.  In this work it developed that Suydam's new
associates were among the blackest and most vicious criminals of Red
Hook's devious lanes, and that at least a third of them were known
and repeated offenders in the matter of thievery, disorder, and the
importation of illegal immigrants.  Indeed, it would not have been
too much to say that the old scholar's particular circle coincided
almost perfectly with the worst of the organized cliques which
smuggled ashore certain nameless and unclassified Asian dregs wisely
turned back by Ellis Island.  In the teeming rookeries of Parker
Place--since renamed--where Suydam had his basement flat, there had
grown up a very unusual colony of unclassified slant-eyed folk who
used the Arabic alphabet but were eloquently repudiated by the great
mass of Syrians in and around Atlantic Avenue.  They could all have
been deported for lack of credentials, but legalism is slow-moving,
and one does not disturb Red Hook unless publicity forces one to.

These creatures attended a tumbledown stone church, used Wednesdays
as a dance hall, which reared its Gothic buttresses near the vilest
part of the waterfront.  Clergy throughout Brooklyn denied the place
all standing and authenticity, and policemen agreed with them when
they listened to the noises it emitted at night.  Malone used to
fancy he heard terrible cracked bass notes from a hidden organ far
underground when the church stood empty and unlighted, whilst all
observers dreaded the shrieking and drumming which accompanied the
visible services.  Suydam, when questioned, said he thought the
ritual was some remnant of Nestorian Christianity tinctured with the
Shamanism of Tibet.  Most of the people, he conjectured, were of
Mongoloid stock, originating somewhere in or near Kurdistan--and
Malone could not help recalling that Kurdistan is the land of the
Yezidees, last survivors of the Persian devil-worshippers.  However
this may have been, the stir of the Suydam investigation made it
certain that these unauthorized newcomers were flooding Red Hook in
increasing numbers; entering through some marine conspiracy unreached
by revenue officers and harbor police, overrunning Parker Place and
rapidly spreading up the hill, and welcomed with curious fraternalism
by the other assorted denizens of the region.  Their squat figures
and characteristic squinting physiognomies grotesquely combined with
flashy American clothing, appeared more and more numerously among the
loafers and nomad gangsters of the Borough Hall section; till at
length it was deemed necessary to compute their number, ascertain
their sources and occupations, and find if possible a way to round
them up and deliver them to the proper immigration authorities.  To
this task Malone was assigned by agreement of Federal and city
forces, and as he commenced his canvass of Red Hook he felt poised
upon the brink of nameless terrors, with the shabby, unkempt figure
of Robert Suydam as archfiend and adversary.

IV

Police methods are varied and ingenious.  Malone, through
unostentatious rambles, carefully casual conversations, well-timed
offers of hip-pocket liquor, and judicious dialogues with frightened
prisoners, learned many isolated facts about the movement whose
aspect had become so menacing.  The newcomers were indeed Kurds, but
of a dialect obscure and puzzling to exact philology.  Such of them
as worked lived mostly as dock-hands and unlicensed peddlers, though
frequently serving in Greek restaurants and tending corner
newsstands.  Most of them, however, had no visible means of support;
and were obviously connected with underworld pursuits, of which
smuggling and bootlegging were the least indescribable.  They had
come in steamships, apparently tramp freighters, and had been
unloaded by stealth on moonless nights in rowboats which stole under
a certain wharf and followed a hidden canal and house Malone could
not locate, for the memories of his informants were exceedingly
confused, while their speech was to a great extent beyond even the
ablest interpreters; nor could he gain any real data on the reasons
for their systematic importation.  They were reticent about the exact
spot from which they had come, and were never sufficiently off guard
to reveal the agencies which had sought them out and directed their
course.  Indeed, they developed something like acute fright when
asked the reason for their presence.  Gangsters of other breeds were
equally taciturn, and the most that could be gathered was that some
god or great priesthood had promised them unheard-of powers and
supernatural glories and rulerships in a strange land.

The attendance of both newcomers and old gangsters at Suydam's
closely guarded nocturnal meetings was very regular, and the police
soon learned that the erstwhile recluse had leased additional flats
to accommodate such guests as knew his password; at last occupying
three entire houses and permanently harboring many of his queer
companions.  He spent but little time now at his Flatbush home,
apparently going and coming only to obtain and return books; and his
face and manner had attained an appalling pitch of wildness.  Malone
twice interviewed him, but was each time bruskly repulsed.  He knew
nothing, he said, of any mysterious plots or movements; and had no
idea how the Kurds could have entered or what they wanted.  His
business was to study undisturbed the folk-lore of all the immigrants
of the district; a business with which policemen had no legitimate
concern.  Malone mentioned his admiration for Suydam's old brochure
on the Kabbalah and other myths, but the old man's softening was only
momentary.  He sensed an intrusion, and rebuffed his visitor in no
uncertain way; till Malone withdrew disgusted, and turned to other
channels of information.

What Malone would have unearthed could he have worked continuously on
the case, we shall never know.  As it was, a stupid conflict between
city and Federal authority suspended the investigation for several
months, during which the detective was busy with other assignments.
But at no time did he lose interest, or fail to stand amazed at what
began to happen to Robert Suydam.  Just at the time when a wave of
kidnappings and disappearances spread its excitement over New York,
the unkempt scholar embarked upon a metamorphosis as startling as it
was absurd.  One day he was seen near Borough Hall with clean-shaved
face, well-trimmed hair, and tastefully immaculate attire, and on
every day thereafter some obscure improvement was noticed in him.  He
maintained his new fastidiousness without interruption, added to it
an unwonted sparkle of eye and crispness of speech, and began little
by little to shed the corpulence which had so long deformed him.  Now
frequently taken for less than his age, he acquired an elasticity of
step and buoyancy of demeanor to match the new tradition, and showed
a curious darkening of the hair which somehow did not suggest dye.
As the months passed, he commenced to dress less and less
conservatively, and finally astonished his few friends by renovating
and redecorating his Flatbush mansion, which he threw open in a
series of receptions, summoning all the acquaintances he could
remember, and extending a special welcome to the fully forgiven
relatives who had lately sought his restraint.  Some attended through
curiosity, others through duty; but all were suddenly charmed by the
dawning grace and urbanity of the former hermit.  He had, he
asserted, accomplished most of his allotted work; and having just
inherited some property from a half-forgotten European friend, was
about to spend his remaining years in a brighter second youth which
ease, care and diet had made possible to him.  Less and less was he
seen at Red Hook, and more and more did he move in the society to
which he was born.  Policemen noted a tendency of the gangsters to
congregate at the old stone church and dancehall instead of at the
basement flat in Parker Place, though the latter and its recent
annexes still overflowed with noxious life.

Then two incidents occurred--wide enough apart, but both of intense
interest in the case as Malone envisaged it.  One was a quiet
announcement in the _Eagle_ of Robert Suydam's engagement to Miss
Cornelia Gerritsen of Bayside, a young woman of excellent position,
and distantly related to the elderly bridegroom-elect; whilst the
other was a raid on the dance-hall church by city police, after a
report that the face of a kidnapped child had been seen for a second
at one of the basement windows.  Malone had participated in this
raid, and studied the place with much care when inside.  Nothing was
found--in fact, the building was entirely deserted when visited--but
the sensitive Celt was vaguely disturbed by many things about the
interior.  There were crudely painted panels he did not like--panels
which depicted sacred faces with peculiarly worldly and sardonic
expressions, and which occasionally took liberties that even a
layman's sense of decorum could scarcely countenance.  Then, too, he
did not relish the Greek inscription on the wall above the pulpit; an
ancient incantation which he had once stumbled upon in Dublin college
days, and which read, literally translated: "O friend and companion
of night, thou who rejoicest in the baying of dogs and spilt blood,
who wanderest in the midst of shades among the tombs; who longest for
blood and bringest terror to mortals, Gorge, Mormo, thousand-faced
moon, look favorably on our sacrifices!"

When he read this he shuddered, and thought vaguely of the cracked
bass organ-notes he fancied he had heard beneath the church on
certain nights.  He shuddered again at the rust around the rim of a
metal basin which stood on the altar, and paused nervously when his
nostrils seemed to detect a curious and ghastly stench from somewhere
in the neighborhood.  That organ memory haunted him, and he explored
the basement with particular assiduity before he left.  The place was
very hateful to him; yet after all, were the blasphemous panels and
inscriptions more than mere crudities perpetrated by the ignorant?

By the time of Suydam's wedding the kidnapping epidemic had become a
popular newspaper scandal.  Most of the victims were young children
of the lowest classes, but the increasing number of disappearances
had worked up a sentiment of the strongest fury.  Journals clamored
for action from the police, and once more the Butler Street station
sent its men over Red Hook for clues, discoveries, and criminals.
Malone was glad to be on the trail again, and took pride in a raid on
one of Suydam's Parker Place houses.  There, indeed, no stolen child
was found, despite the tales of screams and the red sash picked up in
the areaway; but the paintings and rough inscriptions on the peeling
walls of most of the rooms, and the primitive chemical laboratory in
the attic, all helped to convince the detective that he was on the
track of something tremendous.  The paintings were appalling--hideous
monsters of every shape and size, and parodies on human outlines
which cannot be described.  The writing was in red, and varied from
Arabic to Greek, Roman, and Hebrew letters.  Malone could not read
much of it, but what he did decipher was portentous and cabalistic
enough.  One frequently repeated motto was in a sort of Hebraized
Hellenistic Greek, and suggested the most terrible demon-evocations
of the Alexandrian decadence:

HEL.  HELOYM.  SOTHER.  EMMANVEL.  SABOATH.  AGLA.  TETRAGRAMMATION.
AGYROS.  OTHEOS.  ISCHYROS.  ATHANATOS.  IEHOVA.  VA.  ADONAL.  SADY.
HOMOVSION.  MESSIAS.  ESCHEREHEYE.

Circles and pentagrams loomed on every hand, and told indubitably of
the strange beliefs and aspirations of those who dwelt so squalidly
here.  In the cellar, however, the strangest thing was found--a pile
of genuine gold ingots covered carelessly with a piece of burlap, and
bearing upon their shining surfaces the same weird hieroglyphics
which also adorned the walls.  During this raid the police
encountered only a passive resistance from the squinting Orientals
that swarmed from every door.  Finding nothing relevant, they had to
leave all as it was; but the precinct captain wrote Suydam a note,
advising him to look closely to the character of his tenants, and
protegés in view of the growing public clamor.

V

Then came the June wedding and the great sensation; Flatbush was gay
for the hour about high noon, and pennanted motors thronged the
street near the old Dutch church where an awning stretched from door
to highway.  No local event ever surpassed the Suydam-Gerritsen
nuptials in tone and scale, and the party which escorted the bride
and groom to the Cunard pier was, if not exactly the smartest, at
least a solid page from the Social Register!  At 5 o'clock adieux was
waved, and the ponderous liner edged away from the long pier, slowly
turned its nose seaward, discarded its tug, and headed for widening
water spaces that led to Old World wonders.  By night the outer
harbor was cleared, and late passengers watched the stars twinkling
above an unpolluted ocean.

Whether the tramp steamer or the scream was first to gain attention,
no one can say.  Probably they were simultaneous, but it is of no use
to calculate.  The scream came from the Suydam stateroom, and the
sailor who broke down the door could perhaps have told frightful
things if he had not forthwith gone completely mad--as it is, he
shrieked more loudly than the first victims, and thereafter ran
simpering about the vessel till caught and put in irons.  The ship's
doctor who entered the stateroom and turned on the lights a moment
later did not go mad, but told nobody what he saw till afterward,
when he corresponded with Malone in Chepachet.  It was
murder--strangulation--but one need not say that the claw-mark on
Mrs. Suydam's throat could not have come from her husband's or any
other human hand, or that upon the white wall there flickered for an
instant in hateful red a legend which, later copied from memory,
seems to have been nothing less than the fearsome Chaldee letters of
the word "LILITH."  One need not mention these things because they
vanished so quickly--as for Suydam, one could at least bar others
from the room until one knew what to think oneself.  The doctor has
distinctly assured Malone that he did not see IT.  The open porthole,
just before he turned on the lights, was clouded for a second with a
certain phosphorescence, and for a moment there seemed to echo in the
night outside the suggestion of a faint and hellish tittering; but no
real outline met the eye.  As proof, the doctor points to his
continued sanity.

Then the tramp steamer claimed all attention.  A boat put off, and a
horde of swart, insolent ruffians in officers' dress swarmed aboard
the temporarily halted Cunarder.  They wanted Suydam or his
body--they had known of his trip, and for certain reasons were sure
he would die.  The captain's deck was almost a pandemonium; for at
the instant, between the doctor's report from the stateroom and the
demands of the men from the tramp, not even the wisest and gravest
seaman could think what to do.  Suddenly the leader of the visiting
mariners, an Arab with a hatefully negroid mouth, pulled forth a
dirty, crumpled paper and handed it to the captain.  It was signed by
Robert Suydam, and bore the following odd message:

_In case of sudden or unexpected accident or death on my part, please
deliver me or my body unquestioningly into the hands of the bearer
and his associates.  Everything, for me, and perhaps for you, depends
on absolute compliance.  Explanations can come later--do not fail me
now._

_Robert Suydam._

Captain and doctor looked at each other, and the latter whispered
something to the former.  Finally they nodded rather helplessly and
led the way to the Suydam stateroom.  The doctor directed the
captain's glance away as he unlocked the door and admitted the
strange seamen, nor did he breathe easily, till they filed out with
their burden after an unaccountably long period of preparation.  It
was wrapped in bedding from the berths, and the doctor was glad that
the outlines were not very revealing.  Somehow the men got the thing
over the side and away to their tramp steamer without uncovering it.

The Cunarder started again, and the doctor and ship's undertaker
sought out the Suydam stateroom to perform what last services they
could.  Once more the physician was forced to reticence and even to
mendacity, for a hellish thing had happened.  When the undertaker
asked him why he had drained off all of Mrs. Suydam's blood, he
neglected to affirm that he had not done so; nor did he point to the
vacant bottle-spaces on the rack, or to the odor in the sink which
showed the hasty disposition of the bottles' original contents.  The
pockets of those men--if men they were--had bulged damnably when they
left the ship.  Two hours later, and the world knew by radio all that
it ought to know of the horrible affair.

VI

That same June evening, without having heard a word from the sea,
Malone was very busy among the alleys of Red Hook.  A sudden stir
seemed to permeate the place, and as if apprized by "grapevine
telegraph" of something singular, the denizens clustered expectantly
around the dance-hall church and the houses in Parker Place.  Three
children had just disappeared--blue-eyed Norwegians from the streets
toward Gowanus--and there were rumors of a mob forming among the
sturdy Viking of that section.  Malone had for weeks been urging his
colleagues to attempt a general clean-up; and at last, moved by
conditions more obvious to their common sense than the conjectures of
a Dublin dreamer, they had agreed upon a final stroke.  The unrest
and menace of this evening had been the deciding factor, and just
about midnight a raiding party recruited from three stations
descended upon Parker Place and its environs.  Doors were battered
in, stragglers arrested, and candle-lighted rooms forced to disgorge
unbelievable throngs of mixed foreigners in figured robes, miters and
other inexplicable devices.  Much was lost in the mêlée for objects
were thrown hastily down unexpected shafts, and betraying odors
deadened by the sudden kindling of pungent incense.  But spattered
blood was everywhere, and Malone shuddered whenever he saw a brazier
or altar from which the smoke was still rising.

He wanted to be in several places at once, and decided on Suydam's
basement flat only after a messenger had reported the complete
emptiness of the dilapidated dance-hall church.  The flat, he
thought, must hold some clue to a cult of which the occult scholar
had so obviously become the center and leader; and it was with real
expectancy that he ransacked the musty rooms, noted their vaguely
charnal odor, and examined the curious books, instruments, gold
ingots, and glass-stoppered bottles scattered carelessly here and
there.  Once a lean, black-and-white cat edged between his feet and
tripped him, overturning at the same time a beaker half full of red
liquid.  The shock was severe, and to this day Malone is not certain
of what he saw; but in dreams he still pictures that cat as it
scuttled away with certain monstrous alterations and peculiarities.

Then came the locked cellar door, and the search for something to
break it down.  A heavy stool stood near, and its tough seat was more
than enough for the antique panels.  A crack formed and enlarged, and
the whole door gave way--but from the other side; whence poured a
howling tumult of ice-cold wind with all the stenches of the
bottomless pit, and whence reached a sucking force not of earth or
heaven, which, coiling sentiently about the paralyzed detective,
dragged him through the aperture and down unmeasured spaces filled
with whispers and wails, and gusts of mocking laughter.

Of course it was a dream.  All the specialists have told him so, and
he has nothing tangible to prove the contrary.  Indeed, he would
rather have it thus; for then the sight of old brick slums and dark
foreign faces would not eat so deeply into his soul.  But at the time
it was all horribly real, and nothing can ever efface the memory of
those nighted crypts, those titan arcades, and those half-formed
shapes of hell that strode gigantically in silence holding half-eaten
things whose still surviving portions screamed for mercy or laughed
with madness.  Odors of incense and corruption joined in sickening
concert, and the black air was alive with the cloudy, semi-visible
bulk of shapeless elemental things with eyes.  Somewhere dark sticky
water was lapping at onyx piers, and once the shivery tinkle of
raucous little bells pealed out to greet the insane titter of a naked
phosphorescent thing which swam into sight, scrambled ashore, and
climbed up to squat leeringly on a carved golden pedestal in the
black ground.

Avenues of limitless night seemed to radiate in every direction, till
one might fancy that here lay the root of a contagion destined to
sicken and swallow cities, and engulf nations in the fetor of hybrid
pestilence.  Here cosmic sin had entered, and festered by unhallowed
rites had commenced the grinning march of death that was to rot us
all to fungus abnormalities too hideous for the grave's holding.
Satan here held his Babylonish court, and in the blood of stainless
childhood the leprous limbs of phosphorescent Lilith were laved.
Incubi and succubae howled praise to Hecate, and headless mooncalves
bleated to the Magna Mater.  Goats leaped to the sound of thin
accursed flutes, and AEgipans chased endlessly after misshapen fauns
over rocks twisted like swollen toads.  Moloch and Ashtaroth were not
absent; for in this quintessence of all damnation the bounds of
consciousness were let down, and man's fancy lay open to vistas of
every realm of horror and every forbidden dimension that evil had
power to mold.  The world and nature were helpless against such
assaults from unsealed wells of night, nor could any sign or prayer
check the Walpurgissage of horror which had come when a sage with the
hateful locked and brimming coffer of transmitted demon-lore.

Suddenly a ray of physical light shot through these fantasms, and
Malone heard the sound of oars amidst the blasphemies of things that
should be dead.  A boat with a lantern in its prow darted into sight,
made fast to an iron ring in the slimy stone pier, and vomited forth
several dark men bearing a long burden swathed in bedding.  They took
it to the naked phosphorescent thing on the carved gold pedestal, and
the thing tittered and pawed the bedding.  Then they unswathed it,
and propped upright before the pedestal the gangrenous corpse of a
corpulent old man with stubby beard and unkempt white hair.  The
phosphorescent thing tittered again, and the men produced bottles
from their pockets and anointed its feet with red, whilst they
afterward gave the bottles to the thing to drink from.

All at once, from an arcaded avenue leading endlessly away, there
came the demoniac rattle and wheeze of a blasphemous organ, choking
and rumbling out of the mockeries of hell in cracked, sardonic bass.
In an instant every moving entity was electrified; and forming at
once into a ceremonial procession, the nightmare horde slithered away
in quiet of the sound--goat, satyr, and AEgipan, incubus, succuba,
and lemur, twisted toad and shapeless elemental, dog-faced howler and
silent strutter in darkness--all led by the abominable naked
phosphorescent thing that had squatted on the carved golden throne;
and that now strode insolently bearing in its arms the glassy-eyed
corpse of the corpulent old man.  The strange dark man danced in the
rear, and the whole column skipped and leaped with Dionysiac fury.
Malone staggered after them a few steps, delirious and hazy, and
doubtful of his place in this or any world.  Then he turned,
faltered, and sank down on the cold damp stone, gasping and shivering
as the demon organ croaked on, and the howling and drumming and
tinkling of the mad procession grew fainter and fainter.

Vaguely he was conscious of chanted horrors, and shocking croakings
afar off.  Now and then a wail or whine of ceremonial devotion would
float to him through the black arcade, whilst eventually there rose
the dreadful Greek incantation whose text he had read above the
pulpit of that dance-hall church.

"O friend and companion of night thou who rejoicest in the baying of
dogs (here a hideous howl burst forth) and spilt blood (here nameless
sounds vied with morbid shriekings), who wanderest in the midst of
shades among the tombs (here a whistling sigh occurred), who longest
for blood and bringest terror to mortals (short, sharp cries from
myriad throats), Gorgo (repeated as response), Mormo (repeated with
ecstasy), thousand-faced moon (sighs and flute notes), look favorably
on our sacrifices!"

As the chant closed, a general shout went up, and hissing sounds
nearly drowned the croaking of the cracked bass organ.  Then a gasp
as from many throats, and a babel of barked and bleated
words--"Lilith, Great Lilith, behold the Bridegroom!"  More cries, a
clamor of rioting, and the sharp, clicking footfalls of a running
figure.  The footfalls approached, and Malone raised himself to his
elbow to look.

The luminosity of the crypt, lately diminished, had now slightly
increased; and in that devil-light there appeared the fleeing form of
that which should not flee or feel or breathe--the glassy-eyed,
gangrenous corpse of the corpulent old man, now needing no support,
but animated by some infernal sorcery of the rite just closed.  After
it raced the naked, tittering, phosphorescent thing that belonged on
the carven pedestal, and still farther behind panted the dark men,
and all the dread crew of sentient loathsomenesses.  The corpse was
gaining on its pursuers, and seemed bent on a definite object,
straining with every rotting muscle toward the carved golden
pedestal, whose necromantic importance was evidently so great.
Another moment and it had reached its goal, whilst the trailing
throng labored on with more frantic speed.  But they were too late,
for in one final spurt of strength which ripped tendon from tendon
and sent its noisome bulk floundering to the floor in a state of
jellyish dissolution, the staring corpse which had been Robert Suydam
achieved its object and its triumph.  The push had been tremendous,
but the force had held out; and as the pusher collapsed to a muddy
blotch of corruption the pedestal he had pushed tottered, tipped, and
finally careened from its onyx base into the thick waters below,
sending up a parting gleam of carven gold as it sank heavily to
undreamable gulfs of lower Tartarus.  In that instant, too, the whole
scene of horror faded to nothingness before Malone's eyes; and he
fainted amidst a thunderous crash which seemed to blot out all the
evil universe.

VII

Malone's dream, experienced in full before he knew of Suydam's death
and transfer at sea, was curiously supplemented by some oddities of
the case; though that is no reason why anyone should believe it.  The
three old houses in Parker Place, doubtless long rotten with decay in
its most insidious form, collapsed without visible cause while half
the raiders and most of the prisoners were inside; and both of the
greater number were instantly killed.  Only in the basements and
cellars was there much saving of life, and Malone was lucky to have
been deep below the house of Robert Suydam.  For he really was there,
as no one is disposed to deny.  They found him unconscious by the
edge of the night-black pool, with a grotesquely horrible jumble of
decay and bone, identifiable through dental work as the body of
Suydam, a few feet away.  The case was plain, for it was hither that
the smugglers' underground canal led; and the men who took Suydam
from the ship had brought him home.  They themselves were never
found, or identified; and the ship's doctor is not yet satisfied with
the certitudes of the police.

Suydam was evidently a leader in extensive man-smuggling operations,
for the canal to his house was but one of several subterranean
channels and tunnels in the neighborhood.  There was a tunnel from
this house to a crypt beneath the dance-hall church; a crypt
accessible from the church only through a narrow secret passage in
the north wall, and in whose chambers some singular and terrible
things were discovered.  The croaking organ was there, as well as a
vast arched chapel with wooden benches and a strangely figured altar.
The walls were lined with small cells, in seventeen of which--hideous
to relate--solitary prisoners in a state of complete idiocy were
found chained, including four mothers with infants of disturbingly
strange appearance.  These infants died soon after exposure to the
light; a circumstance which the doctors thought rather merciful.
Nobody but Malone, among those who inspected them, remembered the
somber question of old Delrio: "An sint unquan daemones incubi et
succubae, et an ex tali, congressu proles nasci queat?"

Before the canals were filled up they were thoroughly dredged, and
yielded forth a sensational array of sawed and split bones of all
sizes.  The kidnapping epidemic, very clearly, had been traced home;
though only two of the surviving prisoners could by any legal thread
be connected with it.  These men are now in prison, since they failed
of conviction as accessories in the actual murders.  The carved
golden pedestal or throne so often mentioned by Malone as of primary
occult importance was never brought to light, though at one place
under the Suydam house the canal, was observed to sink into a well
too deep for dredging.  It was choked up at the mouth and cemented
over when the cellars of the new houses were made, but Malone often
speculates on what lied beneath.  The police, satisfied that they had
shattered a dangerous gang of maniacs and alien smugglers, turned
over to the Federal authorities the unconvicted Kurds, who before
their deportation were conclusively found to belong to the Yezidee
clan of devils-worshippers.  The tramp ship and its crew remain an
elusive mystery, though cynical detectives are once more ready to
combat its smuggling and rum-running ventures.  Malone thinks these
detectives show a sadly limited perspective in their lack of wonder
at the myriad unexplainable details, and the suggestive obscurity of
the whole case; though he is just as critical of the newspapers,
which saw only a morbid sensation and gloated over a minor sadist
cult when they might have proclaimed a horror from the universe's
very heart.  But he is content to rest silent in Chepachet, calming
his nervous system and praying that time may gradually transfer his
terrible experience from the realm of present reality to that of
picturesque and semi-mythical remoteness.

Robert Suydam sleeps beside his bride in Greenwood Cemetery.  No
funeral was held over the strangely released bones, and relatives are
grateful for the swift oblivion which overtook the case as a whole.

The scholar's connection with the Red Hook horrors, indeed, was never
emblazoned by legal proof; since his death forestalled the inquiry he
would otherwise have faced.  His own end is not much mentioned, and
the Suydams hope that posterity may recall him only as a gentle
recluse who dabbled in harmless magic and folk-lore.

As for Red Hook--it is always the same.  Suydam came and went; a
terror gathered and faded; but the evil spirit of darkness and
squalor broods on amongst the mongrels in the old brick houses; and
prowling bands still parade on unknown errands past windows where
lights and twisted faces unaccountably appear and disappear.  Age-old
horror is a hydra with a thousand heads, and the cults of darkness
are rooted in blasphemies deeper than the well of Democritus.  The
soul of the beast is omnipresent and triumphant, and Red Hook's
legions of blear-eyed, pockmarked youths still chant and curse and
howl as they file from abyss to abyss, none knows whence or whither,
pushed on by blind laws of biology which they may never understand.
As of old more people enter Red Hook than leave it on the landward
side, and there are already rumors of new canals running underground
to certain centers of traffic in liquor and less mentionable things.

The dance-hall church is now mostly a dance-hall, and queer faces
have appeared at night at the windows.  Lately a policeman expressed
the belief that the filled-up crypt has been dug out again, and for
no simply explainable purpose.  Who are we to combat poisons older
than history and mankind?  Apes danced in Asia to those horrors, and
the cancer lurks secure and spreading where furtiveness hides in rows
of decaying brick.

Malone does not shudder without cause--for only the other day an
officer overheard a swarthy squinting hag teaching a small child some
whispering patois in the shadow of an areaway.  He listened, and
thought it very strange when he heard her repeat over and over again:

"O friend and companion of night thou who rejoicest in the baying of
dogs and spilt blood, who wanderest in the midst of shades among the
tombs, who longest for blood and bringest terror to mortals, Gorgo,
Mormo, thousand-faced moon, look favorably on our sacrifices!"

The LURKING FEAR

                          By H. P. LOVECRAFT

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                        Weird Tales June 1928.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

                    _1. The Shadow on the Chimney_

There was thunder in the air on the night I went to the deserted
mansion atop Tempest Mountain to find the lurking fear. I was not
alone, for foolhardiness was not then mixed with that love of the
grotesque and the terrible which has made my career a series of quests
for strange horrors in literature and in life. With me were two
faithful and muscular men for whom I had sent when the time came; men
long associated with me in my ghastly explorations because of their
peculiar fitness.

We had started quietly from the village because of the reporters who
still lingered about after the eldritch panic of a month before--the
nightmare creeping death. Later, I thought, they might aid me; but I
did not want them then. Would to God I had let them share the search,
that I might not have had to bear the secret alone so long; to bear
it alone for fear the world would call me mad or go mad itself at the
demon implications of the thing. Now that I am telling it anyway, lest
the brooding make me a maniac, I wish I had never concealed it. For
I, and I only, know what manner of fear lurked on that spectral and
desolate mountain.

In a small motor-car we covered the miles of primeval forest and
hill until the wooded ascent checked it. The country bore an aspect
more than usually sinister as we viewed it by night and without the
accustomed crowds of investigators, so that we were often tempted to
use the acetylene headlights despite the attention it might attract.
It was not a wholesome landscape after dark, and I believe I would
have noticed its morbidity even had I been ignorant of the terror
that stalked there. Of wild creatures there were none--they are wise
when death leers close. The ancient lightning-scarred trees seemed
unnaturally large and twisted, and the other vegetation unnaturally
thick and feverish, while curious mounds and hummocks in the weedy,
fulgurite-pitted earth reminded me of snakes and dead men's skulls
swelled to gigantic proportions.

Fear had lurked on Tempest Mountain for more than a century. This I
learned at once from newspaper accounts of the catastrophe which first
brought the region to the world's notice. The place is a remote, lonely
elevation in that part of the Catskills where Dutch civilization once
feebly and transiently penetrated, leaving behind as it receded only
a few ruined mansions and a degenerate squatter population inhabiting
pitiful hamlets on isolated slopes. Normal beings seldom visited
the locality till the state police were formed, and even now only
infrequent troopers patrol it. The fear, however, is an old tradition
throughout the neighboring villages; since it is a prime topic in the
simple discourse of the poor mongrels who sometimes leave their valleys
to trade hand-woven baskets for such primitive necessities as they can
not shoot, raise, or make.

The lurking fear dwelt in the shunned and deserted Martense mansion,
which crowned the high but gradual eminence whose liability to frequent
thunderstorms gave it the name of Tempest Mountain. For over a hundred
years the antique, grove-circled stone house had been the subject
of stories incredibly wild and monstrously hideous; stories of a
silent colossal creeping death which stalked abroad in summer. With
whimpering insistence the squatters told tales of a demon which seized
lone wayfarers after dark, either carrying them off or leaving them
in a frightful state of gnawed dismemberment; while sometimes they
whispered of blood-trails toward the distant mansion. Some said the
thunder called the lurking fear out of its habitation, while others
said the thunder was its voice.

No one outside the backwoods had believed these varying and conflicting
stories, with their incoherent, extravagant descriptions of the
half-glimpsed fiend; yet not a farmer or villager doubted that the
Martense mansion was ghoulishly haunted. Local history forbade
such a doubt, although no ghostly evidence was ever found by such
investigators as had visited the building after some especially vivid
tales of the squatters. Grandmothers told strange myths of the Martense
specter; myths concerning the Martense family itself, its queer
hereditary dissimilarity of eyes, its long, unnatural annals, and the
murder which had cursed it.

The terror which brought me to the scene was a sudden and portentous
confirmation of the mountaineers' wildest legends. One summer night,
after a thunderstorm of unprecedented violence, the countryside was
aroused by a squatter stampede which no mere delusion could create. The
pitiful throngs of natives shrieked and whined of the unnamable horror
which had descended upon them, and they were not doubted. They had not
seen it, but had heard such cries from one of their hamlets that they
knew a creeping death had come.

In the morning citizens and state troopers followed the shuddering
mountaineers to the place where they said the death had come. Death
was indeed there. The ground under one of the squatters' villages
had caved in after a lightning strike, destroying several of the
malodorous shanties; but upon this property damage was superimposed an
organic devastation which paled it to insignificance. Of a possible
seventy-five natives who had inhabited this spot, not one living
specimen was visible. The disordered earth was covered with blood and
human debris bespeaking too vividly the ravages of demon teeth and
talons; yet no visible trail led away from the carnage. That some
hideous animal must be the cause, everyone quickly agreed; nor did any
tongue now revive the charge that such cryptic deaths formed merely the
sordid murders common in decadent communities. That charge was revived
only when about twenty-five of the estimated population were found
missing from the dead; and even then it was hard to explain the murder
of fifty by half that number. But the fact remained that on a summer
night a bolt had come out of the heavens and left a dead village whose
corpses were horribly mangled, chewed, and clawed.

The excited countryside immediately connected the horror with the
haunted Martense mansion, though the localities were over three miles
apart. The troopers were more skeptical, including the mansion only
casually in their investigations, and dropping it altogether when they
found it thoroughly deserted. Country and village people, however,
canvassed the place with infinite care; overturning everything in the
house, sounding ponds and brooks, beating down bushes, and ransacking
the near-by forests. All was in vain; the death that had come had left
no trace save destruction itself.

By the second day of the search the affair was fully treated by the
newspapers, whose reporters overran Tempest Mountain. They described
it in much detail, and with many interviews to elucidate the horror's
history as told by local grandams. I followed the accounts languidly
at first, for I am a connoisseur in horrors; but after a week I
detected an atmosphere which stirred me oddly, so that on August
5th, 1921, I registered among the reporters who crowded the hotel at
Lefferts Corners, nearest village to Tempest Mountain and acknowledged
headquarters of the searchers. Three weeks more, and the dispersal of
the reporters left me free to begin a terrible exploration based on the
minute inquiries and surveying with which I had meanwhile busied myself.

So on this summer night, while distant thunder rumbled, I left a silent
motor-car and tramped with two armed companions up the mound-covered
reaches of Tempest Mountain, casting the beams of an electric torch on
the spectral gray walls that began to appear through the giant oaks
ahead. In this morbid night solitude and feeble shifting illumination,
the vast boxlike pile displayed obscure hints of terror which day could
not uncover; yet I did not hesitate, since I had come with fierce
resolution to test an idea. I believed that the thunder called the
death-demon out of some fearsome secret place; and be that demon solid
entity or vaporous pestilence, I meant to see it.

       *       *       *       *       *

I had thoroughly searched the ruin before, hence knew my plan well;
choosing as the seat of my vigil the old room of Jan Martense, whose
murder looms so great in the rural legends. I felt subtly that the
apartment of this ancient victim was best for my purposes. The chamber,
measuring about twenty feet square, contained like the other rooms some
rubbish which had once been furniture. It lay on the second story, on
the southeast corner of the house, and had an immense east window and
narrow south window, both devoid of panes or shutters. Opposite the
large window was an enormous Dutch fireplace with scriptural tiles
representing the prodigal son, and opposite the narrow window was a
spacious bed built into the wall.

As the tree-muffled thunder grew louder, I arranged my plan's details.
First I fastened side by side on the ledge of the large window three
rope ladders which I had brought with me. I knew they reached a
suitable spot on the grass outside, for I had tested them. Then the
three of us dragged from another room a wide four-poster bedstead,
crowding it laterally against the window. Having strewn it with fir
boughs, all now rested on it with drawn automatics, two relaxing while
the third watched. From whatever direction the demon might come, our
potential escape was provided. If it came from within the house, we had
the window ladders; if from outside, the door and the stairs. We did
not think, judging from precedent, that it would pursue us far even at
worst.

I watched from midnight to 1 o'clock, when in spite of the sinister
house, the unprotected window, and the approaching thunder and
lightning, I felt singularly drowsy. I was between my two companions.
George Bennett being toward the window and William Tobey toward
the fireplace. Bennett was asleep, having apparently felt the same
anomalous drowsiness which affected me, so I designated Tobey for the
next watch although even he was nodding. It is curious how intently I
had been watching that fireplace.

The increasing thunder must have affected my dreams, for in the brief
time I slept there came to me apocalyptic visions. Once I partly
awaked, probably because the sleeper toward the window had restlessly
flung an arm across my chest. I was not sufficiently awake to see
whether Tobey was attending to his duties as sentinel, but felt a
distinct anxiety on that score. Never before had the presence of evil
so poignantly oppressed me. Later I must have dropped asleep again, for
it was out of a phantasmal chaos that my mind leaped when the night
grew hideous with shrieks beyond anything in my former experience or
imagination.

In that shrieking the inmost soul of human fear and agony clawed
hopelessly and insanely at the ebony gates of oblivion. I awoke to
red madness and the mockery of diabolism, as farther and farther down
inconceivable vistas that phobic and crystalline anguish retreated and
reverberated. There was no light, but I knew from the empty space at
my right that Tobey was gone, God alone knew whither. Across my chest
still lay the heavy arm of the sleeper at my left.

Then came the devastating stroke of lightning which shook the whole
mountain, lit the darkest crypts of the hoary grove, and splintered
the patriarch of the twisted trees. In the demon flash of a monstrous
fireball the sleeper started up suddenly while the glare from beyond
the window threw his shadow vividly upon the chimney above the
fireplace from which my eyes had never strayed. That I am still alive
and sane, is a marvel I can not fathom. I can not fathom it, for the
shadow on that chimney was not that of George Bennett or of any other
human creature; but a blasphemous abnormality from hell's nethermost
craters; a nameless, shapeless abomination which no mind could fully
grasp and no pen even partly describe. In another second I was alone
in the accursed mansion, shivering and gibbering. George Bennett and
William Tobey had left no trace, not even of a struggle. They were
never heard of again.

                      _2. A Passer in the Storm_

For days after that hideous experience in the forest-swathed mansion
I lay nervously exhausted in my hotel room at Lefferts Corners. I do
not remember exactly how I managed to reach the motor-car, start it,
and slip unobserved back to the village; for I retain no distinct
impression save of wild-armed titan trees, demoniac mutterings of
thunder, and Charonian shadows athwart the low mounds that dotted and
streaked the region.

As I shivered and brooded on the casting of that brain-blasting shadow,
I knew that I had at last pried out one of earth's supreme horrors--one
of those nameless blights of outer voids whose faint demon scratchings
we sometimes hear on the farthest rim of space, yet from which our own
finite vision has given us a merciful immunity. The shadow I had seen,
I hardly dared to analyze or identify. Something had lain between me
and the window that night, but I shuddered whenever I could not cast
off the instinct to classify it. If it had only snarled, or bayed,
or laughed titteringly--even that would have relieved the abysmal
hideousness. But it was so silent. It had rested a heavy arm or foreleg
on my chest.... Obviously it was organic, or had once been organic....
Jan Martense, whose room I had invaded, was buried in the graveyard
near the mansion.... I must find Bennett and Tobey, if they lived ...
why had it picked them, and left me for the last?... Drowsiness is so
stifling, and dreams are so horrible....

In a short time I realized that I must tell my story to someone or
break down completely. I had already decided not to abandon the quest
for the lurking fear, for in my rash ignorance it seemed to me that
uncertainty was worse than enlightenment, however terrible the latter
might prove to be. Accordingly I revolved in my mind the best course
to pursue; whom to select for my confidences, and how to track down the
thing which had obliterated two men and cast a nightmare shadow.

My chief acquaintances at Lefferts Corners had been the affable
reporters, of whom several still remained to collect final echoes of
the tragedy. It was from these that I determined to choose a colleague,
and the more I reflected the more my preference inclined toward one
Arthur Munroe, a dark, lean man of about thirty-five, whose education,
taste, intelligence, and temperament all seemed to mark him as one not
bound to conventional ideas and experiences.

On an afternoon in early September Arthur Munroe listened to my story.
I saw from the beginning that he was both interested and sympathetic,
and when I had finished he analyzed and discussed the thing with the
greatest shrewdness and judgment. His advice, moreover, was eminently
practical; for he recommended a postponement of operations at the
Martense mansion until we might become fortified with more detailed
historical and geographical data. On his initiative we combed the
countryside for information regarding the terrible Martense family, and
discovered a man who possessed a marvelously illuminating ancestral
diary. We also talked at length with such of the mountain mongrels
as had not fled from the terror and confusion to remoter slopes, and
arranged to precede our culminating task--the exhaustive and definitive
examination of the mansion in the light of its detailed history--with
an equally exhaustive and definitive examination of spots associated
with the various tragedies of squatter legend.

The results of this examination were not at first very enlightening,
though our tabulation of them seemed to reveal a fairly significant
trend; namely, that the number of reported horrors was by far the
greatest in areas either comparatively near the avoided house or
connected with it by stretches of the morbidly overnourished forest.
There were, it is true, exceptions; indeed, the horror which had caught
the world's ear had happened in a treeless space remote alike from the
mansion and from any connecting woods.

As to the nature and appearance of the lurking fear, nothing could
be gained from the scared and witless shanty-dwellers. In the same
breath they called it a snake and a giant, a thunder-devil and a bat, a
vulture and a walking tree. We did, however, deem ourselves justified
in assuming that it was a living organism highly susceptible to
electrical storms; and although certain of the stories suggested wings,
we believed that its aversion for open spaces made land locomotion
a more probable theory. The only thing really incompatible with the
latter view was the rapidity with which the creature must have traveled
in order to perform all the deeds attributed to it.

When we came to know the squatters better, we found them curiously
likable in many ways. Simple animals they were, gently descending
the evolutionary scale because of their unfortunate ancestry and
stultifying isolation. They feared outsiders, but slowly grew
accustomed to us; finally helping vastly when we beat down all the
thickets and tore out all the partitions of the mansion in our search
for the lurking fear. When we asked them to help us find Bennett and
Tobey they were truly distressed; for they wanted to help us, yet knew
that these victims had gone as wholly out of the world as their own
missing people. That great numbers of them had actually been killed
and removed, just as the wild animals had long been exterminated, we
were of course thoroughly convinced; and we waited apprehensively for
further tragedies to occur.

By the middle of October we were puzzled by our lack of progress. Owing
to the clear nights no demoniac aggressions had taken place, and the
completeness of our vain searches of house and country almost drove us
to regard the lurking fear as a non-material agency. We feared that
the cold weather would come on and halt our explorations, for all
agreed that the demon was generally quiet in winter. Thus there was
a kind of haste and desperation in our last daylight canvass of the
horror-visited hamlet; a hamlet now deserted because of the squatters'
fears.

The ill-fated squatter hamlet had borne no name, but had long stood
in a sheltered though treeless cleft between two elevations called
respectively Cone Mountain and Maple Hill. It was closer to Maple Hill
than to Cone Mountain, some of the crude abodes indeed being dugouts on
the side of the former eminence. Geographically it lay about two miles
northwest of the base of Tempest Mountain, and three miles from the
oak-girt mansion. Of the distance between the hamlet and the mansion,
fully two miles and a quarter on the hamlet's side was entirely open
country; the plain being of fairly level character save for some of the
low snakelike mounds, and having as vegetation only grass and scattered
weeds. Considering this topography, we had finally concluded that
the demon must have come by way of Cone Mountain, a wooded southern
prolongation of which ran to within a short distance of the westernmost
spur of Tempest Mountain. The upheaval of ground we traced conclusively
to a landslide from Maple Hill, a tall lone splintered tree on whose
side had been the striking point of the thunderbolt which summoned the
fiend.

       *       *       *       *       *

As for the twentieth time or more Arthur Munroe and I went minutely
over every inch of the violated village, we were filled with a
certain discouragement coupled with vague and novel fears. It was
acutely uncanny, even when frightful and uncanny things were common,
to encounter so blankly clueless a scene after such overwhelming
occurrences; and we moved about beneath the leaden, darkening sky with
that tragic directionless zeal which results from a combined sense of
futility and necessity of action. Our care was gravely minute; every
cottage was again entered, every hillside dugout again searched for
bodies, every thorny foot of adjacent slope again scanned for dens and
caves, but all without result. And yet, as I have said, vague new fears
hovered menacingly over us; as if giant bat-winged gryphons squatted
invisibly on the mountain-tops and leered with Abaddon-eyes that had
looked on transcosmic gulfs.

As the afternoon advanced, it became increasingly difficult to see; and
we heard the rumble of a thunderstorm gathering over Tempest Mountain.
This sound in such a locality naturally stirred us, though less than
it would have done at night. As it was, we hoped desperately that the
storm would last until well after dark; and with that hope turned from
our aimless hillside searching toward the nearest inhabited hamlet to
gather a body of squatters as helpers in the investigation. Timid as
they were, a few of the younger men were sufficiently inspired by our
protective leadership to promise such help.

We had hardly more than turned, however, when there descended such a
blinding sheet of torrential rain that shelter became imperative. The
extreme, almost nocturnal darkness of the sky caused us to stumble
sadly, but guided by the frequent flashes of lightning and by our
minute knowledge of the hamlet we soon reached the least porous cabin
of the lot; an heterogeneous combination of logs and boards whose still
existing door and single tiny window both faced Maple Hill. Barring
the door after us against the fury of the wind and rain, we put in
place the crude window shutter which our frequent searches had taught
us where to find. It was dismal sitting there on rickety boxes in the
pitchy darkness, but we smoked pipes and occasionally flashed our
pocket lamps about. Now and then we could see the lightning through
cracks in the wall; the afternoon was so incredibly dark that each
flash was extremely vivid.

The stormy vigil reminded me shudderingly of my ghastly night on
Tempest Mountain. My mind turned to that odd question which had kept
recurring ever since the nightmare thing had happened; and again I
wondered why the demon, approaching the three watchers either from the
window or the interior, had begun with the men on each side and left
the middle man till the last, when the titan fireball had scared it
away. Why had it not taken its victims in natural order, with myself
second, from whichever direction it had approached? With what manner
of far-reaching tentacles did it prey? Or did it know that I was the
leader, and save me for a fate worse than that of my companions?

In the midst of these reflections, as if dramatically arranged to
intensify them, there fell near by a terrific bolt of lightning
followed by the sound of sliding earth. At the same time the wolfish
wind rose to demoniac crescendos of ululation. We were sure that the
lone tree on Maple Hill had been struck again, and Munroe rose from
his box and went to the tiny window to ascertain the damage. When he
took down the shutter the wind and rain howled deafeningly in, so that
I could not hear what he said; but I waited while he leaned out and
tried to fathom nature's pandemonium.

Gradually a calming of the wind and dispersal of the unusual darkness
told of the storm's passing. I had hoped it would last into the night
to help our quest, but a furtive sunbeam from a knothole behind me
removed the likelihood of such a thing. Suggesting to Munroe that we
had better get some light even if more showers came, I unbarred and
opened the crude door. The ground outside was a singular mass of mud
and pools, with fresh heaps of earth from the slight landslide; but I
saw nothing to justify the interest which kept my companion silently
leaning out the window. Crossing to where he leaned, I touched his
shoulder; but he did not move. Then, as I playfully shook him and
turned him around, I felt the strangling tendrils of a cancerous horror
whose roots reached into illimitable pasts and fathomless abysms of the
night that broods beyond time.

For Arthur Munroe was dead. And on what remained of his chewed and
gouged head there was no longer a face.

                     _3. What the Red Glare Meant_

On the tempest-racked night of November 8th, 1921, with a lantern which
cast charnel shadows, I stood digging alone and idiotically in the
grave of Jan Martense. I had begun to dig in the afternoon, because a
thunderstorm was brewing, and now that it was dark and the storm had
burst above the maniacally thick foliage I was glad.

I believe that my mind was partly unhinged by events since August 5th;
the demon shadow in the mansion, the general strain and disappointment,
and the thing that occurred at the hamlet in an October storm.
After that thing I had dug a grave for one whose death I could not
understand. I knew that others could not understand either, so let
them think Arthur Munroe had wandered away. They searched, but found
nothing. The squatters might have understood, but I dared not frighten
them more. I myself seemed strangely callous. That shock at the mansion
had done something to my brain, and I could think only of the quest for
a horror now grown to cataclysmic stature in my imagination; a quest
which the fate of Arthur Munroe made me vow to keep silent and solitary.

The scene of my excavations would alone have been enough to unnerve
any ordinary man. Baleful primal trees of unholy size, age, and
grotesqueness leered above me like the pillars of some hellish Druidic
temple; muffling the thunder, hushing the clawing wind, and admitting
but little rain. Beyond the scarred trunks in the background, illumined
by faint flashes of filtered lightning, rose the damp ivied stones of
the deserted mansion, while somewhat nearer was the abandoned Dutch
garden whose walks and beds were polluted by a white, fungous, fetid,
overnourished vegetation that never saw full daylight. And nearest of
all was the graveyard, where deformed trees tossed insane branches
as their roots displaced unhallowed slabs and sucked venom from what
lay below. Now and then, beneath the brown pall of leaves that rotted
and festered in the antediluvian forest darkness, I could trace the
sinister outlines of some of these low mounds which characterized the
lightning-pierced region.

History had led me to this archaic grave. History, indeed, was all I
had after everything else ended in mocking Satanism. I now believed
that the lurking fear was no material thing, but a wolf-fanged ghost
that rode the midnight lightning. And I believed, because of the masses
of local tradition I had unearthed in my search with Arthur Munroe,
that the ghost was that of Jan Martense, who died in 1762. That is why
I was digging idiotically in his grave.

The Martense mansion was built in 1670 by Gerrit Martense, a wealthy
New Amsterdam merchant who disliked the changing order under British
rule, and had constructed this magnificent domicile on a remote
woodland summit whose untrodden solitude and unusual scenery pleased
him. The only substantial disappointment encountered in this site was
that which concerned the prevalence of violent thunderstorms in summer.
When selecting the hill and building his mansion, Mynheer Martense
had laid these frequent natural outbursts to some peculiarity of the
year; but in time he perceived that the locality was especially liable
to such phenomena. At length, having found these storms injurious to
his head, he fitted up a cellar into which he could retreat from their
wildest pandemonium.

Of Gerrit Martense's descendants less is known than of himself; since
they were all reared in hatred of the English civilization, and
trained to shun such of the colonists as accepted it. Their life was
exceedingly secluded, and people declared that their isolation had made
them heavy of speech and comprehension. In appearance all were marked
by a peculiar inherited dissimilarity of eyes; one generally being
blue and the other brown. Their social contacts grew fewer and fewer,
till at last they took to intermarrying with the numerous menial class
about the estate. Many of the crowded family degenerated, moved across
the valley, and merged with the mongrel population which was later to
produce the pitiful squatters. The rest had stuck sullenly to their
ancestral mansion, becoming more and more clannish and taciturn, yet
developing a nervous responsiveness to the frequent thunderstorms.

Most of this information reached the outside world through young Jan
Martense, who from some kind of restlessness joined the colonial army
when news of the Albany Convention reached Tempest Mountain. He was
the first of Gerrit's descendants to see much of the world; and when
he returned in 1760, after six years of campaigning, he was hated
as an outsider by his father, uncles, and brothers, in spite of his
dissimilar Martense eyes. No longer could he share the peculiarities
and prejudices of the Martenses, while the very mountain thunderstorms
failed to intoxicate him as they had before. Instead, his surroundings
depressed him; and he frequently wrote to a friend in Albany of plans
to leave the paternal roof.

In the spring of 1763 Jonathan Gifford, the Albany friend of Jan
Martense, became worried by his correspondent's silence; especially in
view of the conditions and quarrels at the Martense mansion. Determined
to visit Jan in person, he went into the mountains on horseback. His
diary states that he reached Tempest Mountain on September 20th,
finding the mansion in great decrepitude. The sullen, odd-eyed
Martenses, whose unclean animal aspect shocked him, told him in broken
gutturals than Jan was dead. He had, they insisted, been struck by
lightning the autumn before, and now lay buried behind the neglected
sunken gardens. They showed the visitor the grave, barren and devoid of
markers. Something in the Martenses' manner gave Gifford a feeling of
repulsion and suspicion, and a week later he returned with spade and
mattock to explore the sepulchral spot. He found what he expected--a
skull crushed cruelly as if by savage blows--so returning to Albany he
openly charged the Martenses with the murder of their kinsman.

Legal evidence was lacking, but the story spread rapidly around the
countryside; and from that time the Martenses were ostracized by the
world. No one would deal with them, and their distant manor was shunned
as an accursed place. Somehow they managed to live on independently
by the products of their estate, for occasional lights glimpsed from
far-away hills attested their continued presence. These lights were
seen as late as 1810, but toward the last they became very infrequent.

Meanwhile there grew up about the mansion and the mountain a body of
diabolic legendry. The place was avoided with doubled assiduousness,
and invested with every whispered myth tradition could supply. It
remained unvisited till 1816, when the continued absence of lights was
noticed by the squatters. At that time a party made investigations,
finding the house deserted and partly in ruins.

There were no skeletons about, so that departure rather than death
was inferred. The clan seemed to have left several years before,
and improvised penthouses showed how numerous it had grown prior to
its migration. Its cultural level had fallen very low, as proved by
decaying furniture and scattered silverware which must have been long
abandoned when its owners left. But though the dreaded Martenses were
gone, the fear of the haunted house continued; and grew very acute
when new and strange stories arose among the mountain decadents. There
it stood; deserted, feared, and linked with the vengeful ghost of Jan
Martense. There it still stood on the night I dug in Jan Martense's
grave.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have described my protracted digging as idiotic, and such it indeed
was in object and method. The coffin of Jan Martense had been soon
unearthed--it now held only dust and niter--but in my fury to exhume
his ghost I delved irrationally and clumsily down beneath where he had
lain. God knows what I expected to find--I only felt that I was digging
in the grave of a man whose ghost stalked by night.

It is impossible to say what monstrous depth I had attained when my
spade, and soon my feet, broke through the ground beneath. The event,
under the circumstances, was tremendous; for in the existence of a
subterranean space here, my mad theories had terrible confirmation. My
slight fall had extinguished the lantern, but I produced an electric
pocket-lamp and viewed the small horizontal tunnel which led away
indefinitely in both directions. It was amply large for a man to
wriggle through; and though no sane person would have tried it at that
time, I forgot danger, reason, and cleanliness in my single-minded
fever to unearth the lurking fear. Choosing the direction toward the
house, I scrambled recklessly into the narrow burrow; squirming ahead
blindly and rapidly, and flashing but seldom the lamp I kept before me.

What language can describe the spectacle of a man lost in infinitely
abysmal earth; pawing, twisting, wheezing; scrambling madly through
sunken convolutions of immemorial blackness without an idea of time,
safety, direction, or definite object? There is something hideous in
it, but that is what I did. I did it for so long that life faded to
a far memory, and I became one with the moles and grubs of nighted
depths. Indeed, it was only by accident that after interminable
writhings I jarred my forgotten electric lamp alight, so that it shone
eerily along the burrow of caked loam that stretched and curved ahead.

I had been scrambling in this way for some time, so that my battery
had burned very low, when the passage suddenly inclined sharply
upward, altering my mode of progress. And as I raised my glance it
was without preparation that I saw glistening in the distance two
demoniac reflections of my expiring lamp; two reflections glowing
with a baneful and unmistakable effulgence, and provoking maddeningly
nebulous memories. I stopped automatically, though lacking the brain to
retreat. The eyes approached, yet of the thing that bore them I could
distinguish only a claw. But what a claw! Then far overhead I heard
a faint crashing which I recognized. It was the wild thunder of the
mountain, raised to hysteric fury. I must have been crawling upward for
some time, so that the surface was now quite near. And as the muffled
thunder clattered, those eyes still stared with vacuous viciousness.

Thank God I did not then know what it was, else I should have died.
But I was saved by the very thunder that had summoned it, for after
a hideous wait there burst from the unseen outside sky one of those
frequent mountainward bolts whose aftermath I had noticed here and
there as gashes of disturbed earth and fulgurites of various sizes.
With Cyclopean rage it tore through the soil above that damnable pit,
blinding and deafening me, yet not wholly reducing me to a coma.

In the chaos of sliding, shifting earth I clawed and floundered
helplessly till the rain on my head steadied me and I saw that I had
come to the surface in a familiar spot; a steep unforested place on the
southwest slope of the mountain. Recurrent sheet lightnings illumed the
tumbled ground and the remains of the curious low hummock which had
stretched down from the wooded higher slope, but there was nothing in
the chaos to show my place of egress from the lethal catacomb. My brain
was as great a chaos as the earth, and as a distant red glare burst on
the landscape from the south I hardly realized the horror I had been
through.

But when two days later the squatters told me what the red glare
meant, I felt more horror than that which the mold-burrow and the
claw and eyes had given; more horror because of the overwhelming
implications. In a hamlet twenty miles away an orgy of fear had
followed the bolt which brought me above ground, and a nameless thing
had dropped from an overhanging tree into a weak-roofed cabin. It had
done a deed, but the squatters had fired the cabin in frenzy before it
could escape. It had been doing that deed at the very moment the earth
caved in on the thing with the claw and eyes.

                      _4. The Horror in the Eyes_

There can be nothing normal in the mind of one who, knowing what I
knew of the horrors of Tempest Mountain, would seek alone for the fear
that lurked there. That at least two of the fear's embodiments were
destroyed, formed but a slight guarantee of mental and physical safety
in this Acheron of multiform diabolism; yet I continued my quest with
even greater zeal as events and revelations became more monstrous.

When, two days after my frightful crawl through that crypt of the eyes
and claw, I learned that a thing had malignly hovered twenty miles
away at the same instant the eyes were glaring at me, I experienced
virtual convulsions of fright. But that fright was so mixed with wonder
and alluring grotesqueness that it was almost a pleasant sensation.
Sometimes, in the throes of a nightmare when unseen powers whirl one
over the roofs of strange dead cities toward the grinning chasm of
Nis, it is a relief and even a delight to shriek wildly and throw
oneself voluntarily along with the hideous vortex of dream-doom down
into whatever bottomless gulf may yawn. And so it was with the waking
nightmare of Tempest Mountain; the discovery that two monsters had
haunted the spot gave me ultimately a mad craving to plunge into the
very earth of the accursed region, and with bare hands dig out the
death that leered from every inch of the poisonous soil.

As soon as possible I visited the grave of Jan Martense and dug vainly
where I had dug before. Some extensive cave-in had obliterated all
trace of the underground passage, while the rain had washed so much
earth back into the excavation that I could not tell how deeply I had
dug that other day. I likewise made a difficult trip to the distant
hamlet where the death-creature had been burnt, and was little repaid
for my trouble. In the ashes of the fateful cabin I found several
bones, but apparently none of the monster's. The squatters said the
thing had had only one victim; but in this I judged them inaccurate,
since besides the complete skull of a human being, there was another
bony fragment which seemed certainly to have belonged to a human skull
at some time. Though the rapid drop of the monster had been seen, no
one could say just what the creature was like; those who had glimpsed
it called it simply a devil. Examining the great tree where it had
lurked, I could discern no distinctive marks. I tried to find some
trail into the black forest, but on this occasion could not stand the
sight of those morbidly large boles, or of those vast serpentlike roots
that twisted so malevolently before they sank into the earth.

My next step was to re-examine with microscopic care the deserted
hamlet where death had come most abundantly, and where Arthur Munroe
had seen something he never lived to describe. Though my vain previous
searches had been exceedingly minute, I now had new data to test; for
my horrible grave-crawl convinced me that at least one of the phases
of the monstrosity had been an underground creature. This time, on the
14th of November, my quest concerned itself mostly with the slopes
of Cone Mountain and Maple Hill where they overlook the unfortunate
hamlet, and I gave particular attention to the loose earth of the
landslide region on the latter eminence.

The afternoon of my search brought nothing to light, and dusk came
as I stood on Maple Hill looking down at the hamlet and across the
valley to Tempest Mountain. There had been a gorgeous sunset, and now
the moon came up, nearly full and shedding a silver flood over the
plain, the distant mountainside, and the curious low mounds that rose
here and there. It was a peaceful Arcadian scene, but knowing what it
hid I hated it. I hated the mocking moon, the hypocritical plain, the
festering mountain, and those sinister mounds. Everything seemed to me
tainted with a loathsome contagion, and inspired by a noxious alliance
with distorted hidden powers.

Presently, as I gazed abstractedly at the moonlit panorama, my eye
became attracted by something singular in the nature and arrangement
of a certain topographical element. Without having any exact knowledge
of geology, I had from the first been interested in the odd mounds
and hummocks of the region. I had noticed that they were pretty
widely distributed around Tempest Mountain, though less numerous on
the plain than near the hilltop itself, where prehistoric glaciation
had doubtless found feebler opposition to its striking and fantastic
caprices. Now, in the light of that low moon which cast long weird
shadows, it struck me forcibly that the various points and lines of the
mound system had a peculiar relation to the summit of Tempest Mountain.
That summit was undeniably a center from which the lines or rows of
points radiated indefinitely and irregularly, as if the unwholesome
Martense mansion had thrown out visible tentacles of terror. The idea
of such tentacles gave me an unexplained thrill, and I stopped to
analyze my reason for believing these mounds glacial phenomena.

The more I analyzed the less I believed, and against my newly opened
mind there began to beat grotesque and horrible analogies based on
superficial aspects and upon my experience beneath the earth. Before
I knew it I was uttering frenzied and disjointed words to myself: "My
God! ... Molehills ... the damned place must be honeycombed ... how
many ... that night at the mansion ... they took Bennett and Tobey
first ... on each side of us." ... Then I was digging frantically
into the mound which had stretched nearest me; digging desperately,
shiveringly, but almost jubilantly; digging and at last shrieking aloud
with some unplaced emotion as I came upon a tunnel or burrow just like
the one through which I had crawled on that other demoniac night.

After that I recall running, spade in hand; a hideous run across
moon-litten, mound-marked meadows and through diseased, precipitous
abysses of haunted hillside forest; leaping, screaming, panting,
bounding toward the terrible Martense mansion. I recall digging
unreasoningly in all parts of the brier-choked cellar; digging to find
the core and center of that malignant universe of mounds. And then I
recall how I laughed when I stumbled on the passageway; the hole at
the base of the old chimney, where the thick weeds grew and cast queer
shadows in the light of the lone candle I had happened to have with me.
What still remained down in that hell-hive, lurking and waiting for the
thunder to arouse it, I did not know. Two had been killed; perhaps that
had finished it. But still there remained that burning determination to
reach the innermost secret of the fear, which I had once more come to
deem definite, material, and organic.

My indecisive speculation whether to explore the passage alone and
immediately with my pocket-light or to try to assemble a band of
squatters for the quest was interrupted after a time by a sudden rush
of wind from the outside which blew out the candle and left me in stark
blackness. The moon no longer shone through the chinks and apertures
above me, and with a sense of fateful alarm I heard the sinister and
significant rumble of approaching thunder. A confusion of associated
ideas possessed my brain, leading me to grope back toward the farthest
corner of the cellar. My eyes, however, never turned away from the
horrible opening at the base of the chimney; and I began to get
glimpses of the crumbling bricks and unhealthy weeds as faint glows
of lightning penetrated the woods outside and illumined the chinks in
the upper wall. Every second I was consumed with a mixture of fear
and curiosity. What would the storm call forth--or was there anything
left for it to call? Guided by a lightning flash I settled myself down
behind a dense clump of vegetation, through which I could see the
opening without being seen.

       *       *       *       *       *

If heaven is merciful, it will some day efface from my consciousness
the sight that I saw, and let me live my last years in peace. I can
not sleep at night now, and have to take opiates when it thunders. The
thing came abruptly and unannounced; a demon, ratlike scurrying from
pits remote and unimaginable, a hellish panting and stifled grunting,
and then from that opening beneath the chimney a burst of multitudinous
and leprous life--a loathsome night-spawned flood of organic corruption
more devastatingly hideous than the blackest conjurations of mortal
madness and morbidity. Seething, stewing, surging, bubbling like
serpents' slime it rolled up and out of that yawning hole, spreading
like a septic contagion and streaming from the cellar at every point of
egress--streaming out to scatter through the accursed midnight forests
and strew fear, madness, and death.

God knows how many there were--there must have been thousands. To see
the stream of them in that faint, intermittent lightning was shocking.
When they had thinned out enough to be glimpsed as separate organisms,
I saw that they were dwarfed, deformed hairy devils or apes--monstrous
and diabolic caricatures of the monkey tribe. They were so hideously
silent; there was hardly a squeal when one of the last stragglers
turned with the skill of long practise to make a meal in accustomed
fashion on a weaker companion. Others snapped up what it left and ate
with slavering relish. Then, in spite of my daze of fright and disgust,
my morbid curiosity triumphed; and as the last of the monstrosities
oozed up alone from that nether world of unknown nightmare, I drew my
automatic pistol and shot it under cover of the thunder.

Shrieking, slithering, torrential shadows of red viscous madness
chasing one another through endless, ensanguined corridors of purple
fulgurous sky ... formless phantasms and kaleidoscopic mutations of a
ghoulish, remembered scene; forests of monstrous overnourished oaks
with serpent roots twisting and sucking unnamable juices from an
earth verminous with millions of cannibal devils; moundlike tentacles
groping from underground nuclei of polypous perversion ... insane
lightning over malignant ivied walls and demon arcades choked with
fungous vegetation.... Heaven be thanked for the instinct which led me
unconscious to places where men dwell; to the peaceful village that
slept under the calm stars of clearing skies.

[Illustration: "They were slithering shadows of red madness."]

I had recovered enough in a week to send to Albany for a gang of
men to blow up the Martense mansion and the entire top of Tempest
Mountain with dynamite, stop up all the discoverable mound-burrows,
and destroy certain overnourished trees whose very existence seemed an
insult to sanity. I could sleep a little after they had done this, but
true rest will never come as long as I remember that nameless secret
of the lurking fear. The thing will haunt me, for who can say the
extermination is complete, and that analogous phenomena do not exist
all over the world? Who can, with my knowledge, think of the earth's
unknown caverns without a nightmare dread of future possibilities? I
can not see a well or a subway entrance without shuddering ... why can
not the doctors give me something to make me sleep, or truly calm my
brain when it thunders?

What I saw in the glow of my flashlight after I shot the unspeakable
straggling object was so simple that almost a minute elapsed before
I understood and went delirious. The object was nauseous; a filthy
whitish gorilla thing with sharp yellow fangs and matted fur. It was
the ultimate product of mammalian degeneration; the frightful outcome
of isolated spawning, multiplication, and cannibal nutrition above and
below the ground; the embodiment of all the snarling chaos and grinning
fear that lurk behind life. It had looked at me as it died, and its
eyes had the same odd quality that marked those other eyes which had
stared at me underground and excited cloudy recollections. One eye
was blue, the other brown. They were the dissimilar Martense eyes of
the old legends, and I knew in one inundating cataclysm of voiceless
horror what had become of that vanished family; the terrible and
thunder-crazed house of Martense.

HE

By H. P. Lovecraft

[Illustration: “The old man clawed and spat at me through the moldy
air, and barked things in his throat as he swayed with the yellow
curtain he clutched.”]

I saw him on a sleepless night when I was walking desperately to save
my soul and my vision. My coming to New York had been a mistake; for
whereas I had looked for poignant wonder and inspiration in the
teeming labyrinths of ancient streets that twist endlessly from
forgotten courts and squares and waterfronts to courts and squares and
waterfronts equally forgotten, and in the Cyclopean modern towers and
pinnacles that rise blackly Babylonian under waning moons, I had found
instead only a sense of horror and oppression which threatened to
master, paralyze, and annihilate me.

The disillusion had been gradual. Coming for the first time upon the
town, I had seen it in the sunset from a bridge, majestic above its
waters, its incredible peaks and pyramids rising flowerlike and
delicate from pools of violet mist to play with the flaming golden
clouds and the first stars of evening. Then it had lighted up window
by window above the shimmering tides where lanterns nodded and glided
and deep horns bayed weird harmonies, and had itself become a starry
firmament of dream, redolent of faery music, and one with the marvels
of Carcassonne and Samarcand and El Dorado and all glorious and
half-fabulous cities. Shortly afterward I was taken through those
antique ways so dear to my fancy--narrow, curving alleys and passages
where rows of red Georgian brick blinked with small-paned dormers
above pillared doorways that had looked on gilded sedans and paneled
coaches--and in the first flush of realization of these long-wished
things I thought I had indeed achieved such treasures as would make me
in time a poet.

But success and happiness were not to be. Garish daylight showed only
squalor and alienage and the noxious elephantiasis of climbing,
spreading stone where the moon had hinted of loveliness and elder
magic; and the throngs of people that seethed through the flumelike
streets were squat, swarthy strangers with hardened faces and narrow
eyes, shrewd strangers without dreams and without kinship to the
scenes about them, who could never mean aught to a blue-eyed man of
the old folk, with the love of fair green lanes and white New England
village steeples in his heart.

So instead of the poems I had hoped for, there came only a shuddering
blankness and ineffable loneliness; and I saw at last a fearful truth
which no one had ever dared to breathe before--the unwhisperable
secret of secrets--the fact that this city of stone and stridor is not
a sentient perpetuation of Old New York as London is of Old London and
Paris of Old Paris, but that it is in fact quite dead, its sprawling
body imperfectly embalmed and infested with queer animate things which
have nothing to do with it as it was in life. Upon making this
discovery I ceased to sleep comfortably; though something of resigned
tranquillity came back as I gradually formed the habit of keeping off
the streets by day and venturing abroad only at night, when darkness
calls forth what little of the past still hovers wraithlike about, and
old white doorways remember the stalwart forms that once passed
through them. With this mode of relief I even wrote a few poems, and
still refrained from going home to my people lest I seem to crawl back
ignobly in defeat.

Then, on a sleepless night’s walk, I met the man. It was in a
grotesque hidden courtyard of the Greenwich section, for there in my
ignorance I had settled, having heard of the place as the natural home
of poets and artists. The archaic lanes and houses and unexpected bits
of square and court had indeed delighted me, and when I found the
poets and artists to be loud-voiced pretenders whose quaintness is
tinsel and whose lives are a denial of all that pure beauty which is
poetry and art, I stayed on for love of these venerable things. I
fancied them as they were in their prime, when Greenwich was a placid
village not yet engulfed by the town; and in the hours before dawn,
when all the revellers had slunk away, I used to wander alone among
their cryptical windings and brood upon the curious arcana which
generations must have deposited there. This kept my soul alive, and
gave me a few of those dreams and visions for which the poet far
within me cried out.

The man came upon me at about 2 one cloudy August morning, as I was
threading a series of detached courtyards; now accessible only through
the unlighted hallways of intervening buildings, but once forming
parts of a continuous network of picturesque alleys. I had heard of
them by vague rumor, and realized that they could not be upon any map
of today; but the fact that they were forgotten only endeared them to
me, so that I had sought them with twice my usual eagerness. Now that
I had found them, my eagerness was again redoubled; for something in
their arrangement dimly hinted that they might be only a few of many
such, with dark, dumb counterparts wedged obscurely betwixt high blank
walls and deserted rear tenements, or lurking lamplessly behind
archways, unbetrayed by hordes of the foreign-speaking or guarded by
furtive and uncommunicative artists whose practises do not invite
publicity or the light of day.

He spoke to me without invitation, noting my mood and glances as I
studied certain knockered doorways above iron-railed steps, the pallid
glow of traceried transoms feebly lighting my face. His own face was
in shadow, and he wore a wide-brimmed hat which somehow blended
perfectly with the out-of-date cloak he affected; but I was subtly
disquieted even before he addressed me. His form was very slight, thin
almost to cadaverousness; and his voice proved phenomenally soft and
hollow, though not particularly deep. He had, he said, noticed me
several times at my wanderings; and inferred that I resembled him in
loving the vestiges of former years. Would I not like the guidance of
one long practised in these explorations, and possessed of local
information profoundly deeper than any which an obvious newcomer could
possibly have gained?

As he spoke, I caught a glimpse of his face in the yellow beam from a
solitary attic window. It was a noble, even a handsome, elderly
countenance; and bore the marks of a lineage and refinement unusual
for the age and place. Yet some quality about it disturbed me almost
as much as its features pleased me--perhaps it was too white, or too
expressionless, or too much out of keeping with the locality, to make
me feel easy or comfortable. Nevertheless I followed him; for in those
dreary days my quest for antique beauty and mystery was all that I had
to keep my soul alive, and I reckoned it a rare favor of Fate to fall
in with one whose kindred seekings seemed to have penetrated so much
farther than mine.

Something in the night constrained the cloaked man to silence, and for
a long hour he led me forward without needless words; making only the
briefest of comments concerning ancient names and dates and changes,
and directing my progress very largely by gestures as we squeezed
through interstices, tiptoed through corridors, clambered over brick
walls, and once crawled on hands and knees through a low, arched
passage of stone whose immense length and tortuous twistings effaced
at last every hint of geographical location I had managed to preserve.
The things we saw were very old and marvelous, or at least they seemed
so in the few straggling rays of light by which I viewed them, and I
shall never forget the tottering Ionic columns and fluted pilasters
and urn-headed iron fenceposts and flaring-linteled windows and
decorative fanlights that appeared to grow quainter and stranger the
deeper we advanced into this inexhaustible maze of unknown antiquity.

                *       *       *       *       *

We met no person, and as time passed the lighted windows became fewer
and fewer. The streetlights we first encountered had been of oil, and
of the ancient lozenge pattern. Later I noticed some with candles; and
at last, after traversing a horrible unlighted court where my guide
had to lead me with his gloved hand through total blackness to a
narrow wooden gate in a high wall, we came upon a fragment of alley
lit only by lanterns in front of every seventh house--unbelievably
Colonial tin lanterns with conical tops and holes punched in the
sides. This alley led steeply uphill--more steeply than I had thought
possible in this part of New York--and the upper end was blocked
squarely by the ivy-clad wall of a private estate, beyond which I
could see a pale cupola, and the tops of trees waving against a vague
lightness in the sky. In this wall was a small, low-arched gate of
nail-studded black oak, which the man proceeded to unlock with a
ponderous key. Leading me within, he steered a course in utter
blackness over what seemed to be a gravel path, and finally up a
flight of stone steps to the door of the house, which he unlocked and
opened for me.

We entered, and as we did so I grew faint from a reek of infinite
mustiness which welled out to meet us, and which must have been the
fruit of unwholesome centuries of decay. My host appeared not to
notice this, and in courtesy I kept silent as he piloted me up a
curving stairway, across a hall, and into a room whose door I heard
him lock behind us. Then I saw him pull the curtains of the three
small-paned windows that barely showed themselves against the
lightening sky; after which he crossed to the mantel, struck flint and
steel, lighted two candles of a candelabrum of twelve sconces, and
made a gesture enjoining soft-toned speech.

In this feeble radiance I saw that we were in a spacious,
well-furnished and paneled library dating from the first quarter of
the Eighteenth Century, with splendid doorway pediments, a delightful
Doric cornice, and a magnificently carved overmantel with
scroll-and-urn top. Above the crowded bookshelves at intervals along
the walls were well-wrought family portraits; all tarnished to an
enigmatical dimness, and bearing an unmistakable likeness to the man
who now motioned me to a chair beside the graceful Chippendale table.
Before seating himself across the table from me, my host paused for a
moment as if in embarrassment; then, tardily removing his gloves,
wide-brimmed hat, and cloak, stood theatrically revealed in full
mid-Georgian costume from queued hair and neck ruffles to
knee-breeches, silk hose, and the buckled shoes I had not previously
noticed. Now slowly sinking into a lyre-back chair, he commenced to
eye me intently.

Without his hat he took on an aspect of extreme age which was scarcely
visible before, and I wondered if this unperceived mark of singular
longevity were not one of the sources of my original disquiet. When he
spoke at length, his soft, hollow, and carefully muffled voice not
infrequently quavered; and now and then I had great difficulty in
following him as I listened with a thrill of amazement and
half-disavowed alarm which grew each instant.

“You behold, Sir,” my host began, “a man of very eccentrical habits,
for whose costume no apology need be offered to one with your wit and
inclinations. Reflecting upon better times, I have not scrupled to
ascertain their ways and adopt their dress and manners; an indulgence
which offends none if practised without ostentation. It hath been my
good fortune to retain the rural seat of my ancestors, swallowed
though it was by two towns, first Greenwich, which built up hither
after 1800, then New York, which joined on near 1830. There were many
reasons for the close keeping of this place in my family, and I have
not been remiss in discharging such obligations. The squire who
succeeded to it in 1768 studied sartain arts and made sartain
discoveries, all connected with influences residing in this particular
plot of ground, and eminently desarving of the strongest guarding.
Some curious effects of these arts and discoveries I now purpose to
show you, under the strictest secrecy; and I believe I may rely on my
judgment of men enough to have no distrust of either your interest or
your fidelity.”

He paused, but I could only nod my head. I have said that I was
alarmed, yet to my soul nothing was more deadly than the material
daylight world of New York, and whether this man were a harmless
eccentric or a wielder of dangerous arts I had no choice save to
follow him and slake my sense of wonder on whatever he might have to
offer. So I listened.

“To--my ancestor,” he softly continued, "there appeared to reside some
very remarkable qualities in the will of mankind; qualities having a
little-suspected dominance not only over the acts of one’s self and of
others, but over every variety of force and substance in Nature, and
over many elements and dimensions deemed more universal than Nature
herself. May I say that he flouted the sanctity of things as great as
space and time and that he put to strange uses the rites of sartain
half-breed red Indians once encamped upon this hill? These Indians
showed choler when the place was built, and were plaguey pestilent in
asking to visit the grounds at the full of the moon. For years they
stole over the wall each month when they could, and by stealth
performed sartain acts. Then, in ’68, the new squire catched them at
their doings, and stood still at what he saw. Thereafter he bargained
with them and exchanged the free access of his grounds for the exact
inwardness of what they did; larning that their grandfathers got part
of their custom from red ancestors and part from an old Dutchman in
the time of the States-General. And pox on him, I’m afeared the squire
must have sarved them monstrous bad rum--whether or not by intent--for
a week after he larnt the secret he was the only man living that knew
it. You, Sir, are the first outsider to be told there is a secret, and
split me if I’d have risked tampering that much with--the powers--had
ye not been so hot after bygone things.”

I shuddered as the man grew colloquial--and with the familiar speech
of another day. He went on.

“But you must know, Sir, that what--the squire--got from those mongrel
salvages was but a small part of the larning he came to have. He had
not been at Oxford for nothing, nor talked to no account with an
ancient chymist and astrologer in Paris. He was, in fine, made
sensible that all the world is but the smoke of our intellects; past
the bidding of the vulgar, but by the wise to be puffed out and drawn
in like any cloud of prime Virginia tobacco. What we want, we may make
about us; and what we don’t want, we may sweep away. I won’t say that
all this is wholly true in body, but ’tis sufficient true to furnish a
very pretty spectacle now and then. You, I conceive, would be tickled
by a better sight of sartain other years than your fancy affords you;
so be pleased to hold back any fright at what I design to show. Come
to the window and be quiet.”

                *       *       *       *       *

My host now took my hand to draw me to one of the two windows on the
long side of the malodorous room, and at the first touch of his
ungloved fingers I turned cold. His flesh, though dry and firm, was of
the quality of ice; and I almost shrank away from his pulling. But
again I thought of the emptiness and horror of reality, and boldly
prepared to follow whithersoever I might be led. Once at the window,
the man drew apart the yellow silk curtains and directed my stare into
the blackness outside. For a moment I saw nothing save a myriad of
tiny dancing lights, far, far before me. Then, as if in response to an
insidious motion of my host’s hand, a flash of heat-lightning played
over the scene, and I looked out upon a sea of luxuriant
foliage--foliage unpolluted, and not the sea of roofs to be expected
by any normal mind. On my right the Hudson glittered wickedly, and in
the distance ahead I saw the unhealthy shimmer of a vast salt marsh
constellated with nervous fireflies. The flash died, and an evil smile
illumined the waxy face of the aged necromancer.

“That was before my time--before the new squire’s time. Pray let us
try again.”

I was faint, even fainter than the hateful modernity of that accursed
city had made me.

“Good God!” I whispered; “can you do that for _any time_?” And as he
nodded, and bared the black stumps of what had once been yellow fangs,
I clutched at the curtains to prevent myself from falling. But he
steadied me with that terrible, ice-cold claw, and once more made his
insidious gesture.

Again the lightning flashed--but this time upon a scene not wholly
strange. It was Greenwich, the Greenwich that used to be, with here
and there a roof or row of houses as we see it now, yet with lovely
green lanes and fields and bits of grassy common. The marsh still
glittered beyond, but in the farther distance I saw the steeples of
what was then all of New York; Trinity and St. Paul’s and the Brick
Church dominating their sisters, and a faint haze of wood smoke
hovering over the whole. I breathed hard, but not so much from the
sight itself as from the possibilities my imagination terrifiedly
conjured up.

“Can you--dare you--go _far_?” I spoke with awe, and I think he shared
it for a second, but the evil grin returned.

“_Far?_ What I have seen would blast ye to a mad statue of stone!
Back, back--forward, _forward_--look, ye puling lack-wit!”

And as he snarled the phrase under his breath he gestured anew;
bringing to the sky a flash more blinding than either which had come
before. For full three seconds I could glimpse that pandemoniac sight,
and in those seconds I saw a vista which will ever afterward torment
me in dreams. I saw the heavens verminous with strange flying things,
and beneath them a hellish black city of giant stone terraces with
impious pyramids flung savagely to the moon, and devil-lights burning
from unnumbered windows. And swarming loathsomely on aerial galleries
I saw the yellow, squint-eyed people of that city, robed horribly in
orange and red, and dancing insanely to the pounding of fevered
kettle-drums, the clatter of obscene crotala, and the maniacal moaning
of muted horns whose ceaseless dirges rose and fell undulantly like
the waves of an unhallowed ocean of bitumen.

I saw this vista, I say, and heard as with the mind’s ear the
blasphemous domdaniel of cacophony which companioned it. It was the
shrieking fulfilment of all the horror which that corpse-city had ever
stirred in my soul, and forgetting every injunction to silence I
screamed and screamed and screamed as my nerves gave way and the walls
quivered about me.

Then, as the flash subsided, I saw that my host was trembling too; a
look of shocking fear half-blotting from his face the serpent
distortion of rage which my screams had excited. He tottered, clutched
at the curtains as I had done before, and wriggled his head wildly,
like a hunted animal. God knows he had cause, for as the echoes of my
screaming died away there came another sound so hellishly suggestive
that only numbed emotion kept me sane and conscious. It was the
steady, stealthy creaking of the stairs beyond the locked door, as
with the ascent of a barefoot or skin-shod horde; and at last the
cautious, purposeful rattling of the brass latch that glowed in the
feeble candlelight. The old man clawed and spat at me through the
moldy air, and barked things in his throat as he swayed with the
yellow curtain he clutched.

“The full moon--damn ye--ye . . . ye yelping dog--ye called ’em, and
they’ve come for me! Moccasined feet--dead men--Gad sink ye, ye red
devils, but I poisoned no rum o’ yours--han’t I kept your pox-rotted
magic safe?--ye swilled yourselves sick, curse ye, and ye must needs
blame the squire--let go, you! Unhand that latch--I’ve naught for ye
here----”

At this point three slow and very deliberate raps shook the panels of
the door, and a white foam gathered at the mouth of the frantic
magician. His fright, turning to steely despair, left room for a
resurgence of his rage against me; and he staggered a step toward the
table on whose edge I was steadying myself. The curtains, still
clutched in his right hand as his left clawed out at me, grew taut and
finally crashed down from their lofty fastenings; admitting to the
room a flood of that full moonlight which the brightening of the sky
had presaged. In those greenish beams the candles paled, and a new
semblance of decay spread over the musk-reeking room with its wormy
paneling, sagging floor, battered mantel, rickety furniture, and
ragged draperies. It spread over the old man, too, whether from the
same source or because of his fear and vehemence, and I saw him
shrivel and blacken as he lurched near and strove to rend me with
vulturine talons. Only his eyes stayed whole, and they glared with a
propulsive, dilated incandescence which grew as the face around them
charred and dwindled.

The rapping was now repeated with greater insistence, and this time
bore a hint of metal. The black thing facing me had become only a head
with eyes, impotently trying to wriggle across the sinking floor in my
direction, and occasionally emitting feeble little spits of immortal
malice. Now swift and splintering blows assailed the sickly panels,
and I saw the gleam of a tomahawk as it cleft the rending wood. I did
not move, for I could not; but watched dazedly as the door fell in
pieces to admit a colossal, shapeless influx of inky substance starred
with shining, malevolent eyes. It poured thickly, like a flood of oil
bursting a rotten bulkhead, overturned a chair as it spread, and
finally flowed under the table and across the room to where the
blackened head with the eyes still glared at me. Around that head it
closed, totally swallowing it up, and in another moment it had begun
to recede; bearing away its invisible burden without touching me, and
flowing again out of that black doorway and down the unseen stairs,
which creaked as before, though in reverse order.

Then the floor gave way at last, and I slid gaspingly down into the
nighted chamber below, choking with cobwebs and half-swooning with
terror. The green moon, shining through broken windows, showed me the
hall door half open; and as I rose from the plaster-strewn floor and
twisted myself free from the sagged ceiling, I saw sweep past it an
awful torrent of blackness, with scores of baleful eyes glowing in it.
It was seeking the door to the cellar, and when it found it, it
vanished therein. I now felt the floor of this lower room giving as
that of the upper chamber had done, and once a crashing above had been
followed by the fall past the west window of something which must have
been the cupola. Now liberated for the instant from the wreckage, I
rushed through the hall to the front door; and finding myself unable
to open it, seized a chair and broke a window, climbing frenziedly out
upon the unkempt lawn where moonlight danced over yard-high grass and
weeds. The wall was high, and all the gates were locked; but moving a
pile of boxes in a corner I managed to gain the top and cling to the
great stone urn set there.

About me in my exhaustion I could see only strange walls and windows
and old gambrel roofs. The steep street of my approach was nowhere
visible, and the little I did see succumbed rapidly to a mist that
rolled in from the river despite the glaring moonlight. Suddenly the
urn to which I clung began to tremble, as if sharing my own lethal
dizziness; and in another instant my body was plunging downward to I
knew not what fate.

The man who found me said that I must have crawled a long way despite
my broken bones, for a trail of blood stretched off as far as he dared
look. The gathering rain soon effaced this link with the scene of my
ordeal, and reports could state no more than that I had appeared from
a place unknown, at the entrance of a little black court off Perry
Street.

I never sought to return to those tenebrous labyrinths, nor would I
direct any sane man thither if I could. Of who or what that ancient
creature was, I have no idea; but I repeat that the city is dead and
full of unsuspected horrors. Whither _he_ has gone, I do not know; but
I have gone home to the pure New England lanes up which fragrant
sea-winds sweep at evening.

[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the September 1926 issue
of Weird Tales Magazine.]

The Festival

By H. P. Lovecraft

Author of “Dagon,” “The Rats in the Walls,” etc.

    “Efficiunt daemones, ut quae non sunt, sic tamen quasi
    sint, conspicienda hominibus exhibeant.”--Lactantius.

I was far from home, and the spell of the eastern sea was upon me. In
the twilight I heard it pounding on the rocks, and I knew it lay just
over the hill where the twisting willows writhed against the clearing
sky and the first stars of evening. And because my fathers had called
me to the old town beyond, I pushed on through the shallow, new-fallen
snow along the road that soared lonely up to where Aldebaran twinkled
among the trees; on toward the very ancient town I had never seen but
often dreamed of.

It was the Yuletide, which men call Christmas, though they know in
their hearts it is older than Bethlehem and Babylon, older than
Memphis and mankind. It was the Yuletide, and I had come at last to
the ancient sea town where my people had dwelt and kept festival in
the elder time when festival was forbidden; where also they had
commanded their sons to keep festival once every century, that the
memory of primal secrets might not be forgotten. Mine were an old
people, old even when this land was settled three hundred years
before. And they were strange, because they had come as dark, furtive
folk from opiate southern gardens of orchids, and spoken another
tongue before they learnt the tongue of the blue-eyed fishers. And now
they were scattered, and shared only the rituals of mysteries that
none living could understand. I was the only one who came back that
night to the old fishing town as legend bade, for only the poor and
the lonely remember.

Then beyond the hill’s crest I saw Kingsport outspread frostily in the
gloaming; snowy Kingsport with its ancient vanes and steeples,
ridgepoles and chimneypots, wharves and small bridges, willow trees
and graveyards; endless labyrinths of steep, narrow, crooked streets,
and dizzy church-crowned central peak that time durst not touch;
ceaseless mazes of colonial houses piled and scattered at all angles
and levels like a child’s disordered blocks; antiquity hovering on
gray wings over winter-whitened gables and gambrel roofs. And against
the rotting wharves the sea pounded; the secretive, immemorial sea out
of which the people had come in the elder time.

Beside the road at its crest a still higher summit rose, bleak and
windswept, and I saw that it was a burying-ground where black
gravestones stuck ghoulishly through the snow like the decayed
fingernails of a gigantic corpse. The printless road was very lonely,
and sometimes I thought I heard a distant horrible creaking as of a
gibbet in the wind. They had hanged four kinsmen of mine for
witchcraft in 1692, but I did not know just where.

As the road wound down the seaward slope I listened for the merry
sounds of a village at evening, but did not hear them. Then I thought
of the season, and felt that these old Puritan folk might well have
Christmas customs strange to me, and full of silent hearthside prayer.
So after that I did not listen for merriment or look for wayfarers,
but kept on down past the hushed, lighted farmhouses and shadowy stone
walls to where the signs of ancient shops and sea taverns creaked in
the salt breeze, and the grotesque knockers of pillared doorways
glistened along deserted, unpaved lanes in the light of little,
curtained windows.

I had seen maps of the town, and knew where to find the home of my
people. It was told that I should be known and welcomed, for village
legend lives long; so I hastened through Back Street to Circle Court,
and across the fresh snow on the one full flagstone pavement in the
town, to where Green Lane leads off behind the Market House. I was
glad I had chosen to walk. The white village had seemed very beautiful
from the hill; and now I was eager to knock at the door of my people,
the seventh house on the left in Green Lane, with an ancient peaked
roof and jutting second story, all built before 1650.

There were lights inside the house when I came upon it, and I saw from
the diamond window-panes that it must have been kept very close to its
antique state. The upper part overhung the narrow, grass-grown street
and nearly met the overhanging part of the house opposite, so that I
was almost in a tunnel, with the low stone doorstep wholly free from
snow. There was no sidewalk, but many houses had high doors reached by
double flights of steps with iron railings. It was an odd scene, and
because I was strange to New England I had never known its like
before. Though it pleased me, I would have relished it better if there
had been footprints in the snow, and people in the streets, and a few
windows without drawn curtains.

                *       *       *       *       *

When I sounded the archaic iron knocker I was half afraid. Some fear
had been gathering in me, perhaps because of the strangeness of my
heritage, and the bleakness of the evening, and the queerness of the
silence in that aged town of curious customs. And when my knock was
answered I was fully afraid, because I had not heard any footsteps
before the door creaked open. But I was not afraid long, for the
gowned, slippered old man in the doorway had a bland face that
reassured me; and though he made signs that he was dumb, he wrote a
quaint and ancient welcome with the stylus and wax tablet he carried.

He beckoned me into a low, candlelit room with massive exposed rafters
and dark, stiff, sparse furniture of the seventeenth century. The past
was vivid there, for not an attribute was missing. There was a
cavernous fireplace and a spinning-wheel at which a bent old woman in
loose wrapper and deep poke-bonnet sat back toward me, silently
spinning despite the festive season. An infinite dampness seemed upon
the place, and I marveled that no fire should be blazing. The
high-backed settle faced the row of curtained windows at the left, and
seemed to be occupied, though I was not sure. I did not like
everything about what I saw, and felt again the fear I had had. This
fear grew stronger from what had before lessened it, for the more I
looked at the old man’s bland face, the more its very blandness
terrified me. The eyes never moved, and the skin was too like wax.
Finally I was sure it was not a face at all, but a fiendishly cunning
mask. But the flabby hands, curiously gloved, wrote genially on the
tablet and told me I must wait a while before I could be led to the
place of festival.

Pointing to a chair, table, and pile of books, the old man now left,
the room; and when I sat down to read I saw that the books were hoary
and moldy, and that they included old Morryster’s wild “Marvels of
Science,” the terrible “Saducismus Triumphatus” of Joseph Glanvil,
published in 1681, the shocking “Daemonolatreia” of Remigius, printed
in 1595 at Lyons, and worst of all, the unmentionable “Necronomicon”
of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred, in Olaus Wormius’ forbidden Latin
translation: a book which I had never seen, but of which I had heard
monstrous things whispered. No one spoke to me, but I could hear the
creaking of signs in the wind outside, and the whir of the wheel as
the bonneted old woman continued her silent spinning, spinning.

I thought the room and the books and the people very morbid and
disquieting, but because an old tradition of my father’s had summoned
me to strange feastings, I resolved to expect queer things. So I tried
to read, and soon became tremblingly absorbed by something I found in
that accursed “Necronomicon”; a thought and a legend too hideous for
sanity or consciousness. But I disliked it when I fancied I heard the
closing of one of the windows that the settle faced, as if it had been
stealthily opened. It had seemed to follow a whirring that was not of
the old woman’s spinning-wheel. This was not much, though, for the old
woman was spinning very hard, and the aged clock had been striking.
After that I lost the feeling that there were persons on the settle,
and was reading intently and shudderingly when the old man came back
booted and dressed in a loose antique costume, and sat down on that
very bench, so that I could not see him. It was certainly nervous
waiting, and the blasphemous book in my hands made it doubly so. When
11 o’clock struck, however, the old man stood up, glided to a massive
carved chest in a corner, and got two hooded cloaks, one of which he
donned, and the other of which he draped round the old woman, who was
ceasing her monotonous spinning. Then they both started for the outer
door; the woman lamely creeping, and the old man, after picking up the
very book I had been reading, beckoning me as he drew his hood over
that unmoving face or mask.

We went out into the moonless and tortuous network of that incredibly
ancient town; went out as the lights in the curtained windows
disappeared one by one, and the Dog Star leered at the throng of
cowled, cloaked figures that poured silently from every doorway and
formed monstrous processions up this street and that, past the
creaking signs and antediluvian gables, the thatched roofs and the
diamond-paned windows; threading precipitous lanes where decaying
houses overlapped and crumbled together, gliding across open courts
and churchyards where the bobbing lanterns made eldritch drunken
constellations.

Amid these hushed throngs I followed my voiceless guides; jostled by
elbows that seemed preternaturally soft, and pressed by chests and
stomachs that seemed abnormally pulpy; but seeing never a face and
hearing never a word. Up, up, up, the eery columns slithered, and I
saw that all the travelers were converging as they flowed near a sort
of focus of crazy alleys at the top of a high hill in the center of
the town, where perched a great white church. I had seen it from the
road’s crest when I looked at Kingsport in the new dusk, and it had
made me shiver because Aldebaran had seemed to balance itself a moment
on the ghostly spire.

There was an open space around the church; partly a churchyard with
spectral shafts, and partly a half-paved square swept nearly bare of
snow by the wind, and lined with unwholesomely archaic houses having
peaked roofs and overhanging gables. Death-fires danced over the
tombs, revealing gruesome vistas, though queerly failing to cast any
shadows. Past the churchyard, where there were no houses, I could see
over the hill’s summit and watch the glimmer of stars on the harbor,
though the town was invisible in the dark. Only once in a while a
lantern bobbed horribly through serpentine alleys on its way to
overtake the throng that was now slipping speechlessly into the
church.

I waited till the crowd had oozed into the black doorway, and till all
the stragglers had followed. The old man was pulling at my sleeve, but
I was determined to be the last. Then finally I went, the sinister man
and the old spinning woman before me. Crossing the threshold into that
swarming temple of unknown darkness, I turned once to look at the
outside world as the churchyard phosphorescence cast a sickly glow on
the hilltop pavement. And as I did so I shuddered. For though the wind
had not left much snow, a few patches did remain on the path near the
door; and in that fleeting backward look it seemed to my troubled eye
that they bore no mark of passing feet, not even mine.

The church was scarce lighted by all the lanterns that had entered it,
for most of the throng had already vanished. They had streamed up the
aisle between the high white pews to the trapdoor of the vaults which
yawned loathsomely open just before the pulpit, and were now squirming
noiselessly in. I followed dumbly down the footworn steps and into the
dank, suffocating crypt. The tail of that sinuous line of
night-marchers seemed very horrible, and as I saw them wriggling into
a venerable tomb, they seemed more horrible still. Then I noticed that
the tomb’s floor had an aperture down which the throng was sliding,
and in a moment we were all descending an ominous staircase of
rough-hewn stone; a narrow spiral staircase damp and peculiarly
odorous, that wound endlessly down into the bowels of the hill, past
monotonous walls of dripping stone blocks and crumbling mortar. It was
a silent, shocking descent, and I observed after a horrible interval
that the walls and steps were changing in nature, as if chiseled out
of the solid rock. What mainly troubled me was that the myriad
footfalls made no sound and set up no echoes. After more eons of
descent I saw some side passages or burrows leading from unknown
recesses of blackness to this shaft of nighted mystery. Soon they
became excessively numerous, like impious catacombs of nameless
menace; and their pungent odor of decay grew quite unbearable. I knew
we must have passed down through the mountain and beneath the earth of
Kingsport itself, and I shivered that a town should be so aged and
maggoty with subterraneous evil.

Then I saw the lurid shimmering of pale light, and heard the insidious
lapping of sunless waters. Again I shivered, for I did not like the
things that the night had brought, and wished bitterly that no
forefather had summoned me to this primal rite. As the steps and the
passage grew broader, I heard another sound, the thin, whining mockery
of a feeble flute; and suddenly there spread out before me the
boundless vista of an inner world--a vast fungous shore litten by a
belching column of sick greenish flame and washed by a wide oily river
that flowed from abysses frightful and unsuspected to join the
blackest gulfs of immemorial ocean.

                *       *       *       *       *

Fainting and gasping, I looked at that unhallowed Erebus of titan
toadstools, leprous fire and slimy water, and saw the cloaked throngs
forming a semicircle around the blazing pillar. It was the Yule-rite,
older than man and fated to survive him; the primal rite of the
solstice and of spring’s promise beyond the snows; the rite of fire
and evergreen, light and music. And in that Stygian grotto I saw them
do the rite, and adore the sick pillar of flame, and throw into the
water handfuls gouged out of the viscous vegetation which glittered
green in the chlorotic glare. I saw this, and I saw something
amorphously squatted far away from the light, piping noisomely on a
flute; and as the thing piped I thought I heard noxious muffled
flutterings in the fetid darkness where I could not see. But what
frightened me most was that flaming column; spouting volcanically from
depths profound and inconceivable, casting no shadows as healthy flame
should, and coating the nitrous stone above with a nasty, venomous
verdigris. For in all that seething combustion no warmth lay, but only
the clamminess of death and corruption.

The man who had brought me now squirmed to a point directly beside the
hideous flame, and made stiff ceremonial motions to the semicircle he
faced. At certain stages of the ritual they did groveling obeisance,
especially when he held above his head that abhorrent “Necronomicon”
he had taken with him; and I shared all the obeisances because I had
been summoned to this festival by the writings of my forefathers. Then
the old man made a signal to the half-seen flute-player in the
darkness, which player thereupon changed its feeble drone to a scarce
louder drone in another key; precipitating as it did so a horror
unthinkable and unexpected. At this horror I sank nearly to the
lichened earth, transfixed with a dread not of this nor any world, but
only of the mad spaces between the stars.

Out of the unimaginable blackness beyond the gangrenous glare of that
cold flame, out of the tartarean leagues through which that oily river
rolled uncanny, unheard, and unsuspected, there flopped rhythmically a
horde of tame, trained, hybrid winged things that no sound eye could
ever wholly grasp, or sound brain ever wholly remember. They were not
altogether crows, nor moles, nor buzzards, nor ants, nor vampire bats,
nor decomposed human beings, but something I cannot and must not
recall. They flopped limply along, half with their webbed feet and
half with their membranous wings; and as they reached the throng of
celebrants the cowled figures seized and mounted them, and rode off
one by one along the reaches of that unlighted river, into pits and
galleries of panic where poison springs feed frightful and
undiscoverable cataracts.

The old spinning woman had gone with the throng, and the old man
remained only because I had refused when he motioned me to seize an
animal and ride like the rest. I saw when I staggered to my feet that
the amorphous flute-player had rolled out of sight, but that two of
the beasts were patiently standing by. As I hung back, the old man
produced his stylus and tablet and wrote that he was the true deputy
of my fathers who had founded the Yule worship in this ancient place;
that it had been decreed I should come back; and that the most secret
mysteries were yet to be performed. He wrote this in a very ancient
hand, and when I still hesitated he pulled from his loose robe a seal
ring and a watch, both with my family arms, to prove that he was what
he said. But it was a hideous proof, because I knew from old papers that
that watch had been buried with my great-great-great-great-grandfather
in 1698.

Presently the old man drew back his hood and pointed to the family
resemblance in his face, but I only shuddered, because I was sure that
the face was merely a devilish waxen mask. The flopping animals were
now scratching restlessly at the lichens, and I saw that the old man
was nearly as restless himself. When one of the things began to waddle
and edge away, he turned quickly to stop it; so that the suddenness of
his motion dislodged the waxen mask from what should have been his
head. And then, because that nightmare’s position barred me from the
stone staircase down which we had come, I flung myself into the oily
underground river that bubbled somewhere to the caves of the sea;
flung myself into that putrescent juice of earth’s inner horrors
before the madness of my screams could bring down upon me all the
charnel legions these pest-gulfs might conceal.

                *       *       *       *       *

At the hospital they told me I had been found half-frozen in Kingsport
Harbor at dawn, clinging to the drifting spar that accident sent to
save me. They told me I had taken the wrong fork of the hill road the
night before, and fallen over the cliffs at Orange Point--a thing they
deducted from prints found in the snow. There was nothing I could say,
because everything was wrong. Everything was wrong, with the broad
window showing a sea of roofs in which only about one in five was
ancient, and the sound of trolleys and motors in the streets below.
They insisted that this was Kingsport, and I could not deny it.

When I went delirious at hearing that the hospital stood near the old
churchyard on Central Hill, they sent me to St. Mary’s Hospital in
Arkham, where I could have better care. I liked it there, for the
doctors were broadminded, and even lent me their influence in
obtaining the carefully sheltered copy of Alhazred’s objectionable
“Necronomicon” from the library of Miskatonic University. They said
something about a “psychosis,” and agreed that I had better get my
harassing obsessions off my mind.

So I read again that hideous chapter, and shuddered doubly because it
was indeed not new to me. I had seen it before, let footprints tell
what they might; and where it was I had seen it were best forgotten.
There was no one--in waking hours--who could remind me of it; but my
dreams are filled with terror, because of phrases I dare not quote. I
dare quote only one paragraph, put into such English as I can make
from the awkward Low Latin.

“The nethermost caverns,” wrote the mad Arab, “are not for the
fathoming of eyes that see; for their marvels are strange and
terrific. Cursed the ground where dead thoughts live new and oddly
bodied, and evil the mind that is held by no head. Wisely did Ibn
Schacabac say that happy is the tomb where no wizard hath lain, and
happy the town at night whose wizards are all in ashes. For it is of
old rumor that the soul of the devil-bought hastes not from his
charnel clay, but fats and instructs _the very worm that gnaws_; till
out of corruption horrid life springs, and the dull scavengers of
earth wax crafty to vex it and swell monstrous to plague it. Great
holes secretly are digged where earth’s pores ought to suffice, and
things have learnt to walk that ought to crawl.”

[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the January 1925 issue of
Weird Tales Magazine.]

The SILVER KEY

                          By H. P. LOVECRAFT

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Weird Tales January 1929.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

When Randolph Carter was thirty he lost the key to the gate of dreams.
Prior to that time he had made up for the prosiness of life by nightly
excursions to strange and ancient cities beyond space, and lovely,
unbelievable garden lands across ethereal seas; but as middle age
hardened upon him he felt these liberties slipping away little by
little, until at last he was cut off altogether. No more could his
galleys sail up the river Oukranos past the gilded spires of Thran, or
his elephant caravans tramp through perfumed jungles in Kled, where
forgotten palaces with veined ivory columns sleep lovely and unbroken
under the moon.

He had read too much of things as they are, and talked with too many
people. Well-meaning philosophers had taught him to look into the
logical relations of things, and analyze the processes which shaped
his thoughts and fancies. Wonder had gone away, and he had forgotten
that all life is only a set of pictures in the brain, among which
there is no difference betwixt those born of real things and those
born of inward dreamings, and no cause to value the one above the
other. Custom had dinned into his ears a superstitious reverence for
that which tangibly and physically exists, and had made him secretly
ashamed to dwell in visions. Wise men told him his simple fancies were
inane and childish, and he believed it because he could see that they
might easily be so. What he failed to recall was that the deeds of
reality are just as inane and childish, and even more absurd because
their actors persist in fancying them full of meaning and purpose as
the blind purpose grinds aimlessly on from nothing to something back to
nothing again, neither heeding nor knowing the wishes or existence of
the minds that flicker for a second now and then in the darkness.

They had chained him down to things that are, and had then explained
the workings of those things till mystery had gone out of the world.
When he complained, and longed to escape into twilight realms where
magic molded all the little vivid fragments and prized associations of
his mind into vistas of breathless expectancy and unquenchable delight,
they turned him instead toward the new-found prodigies of science,
bidding him find wonder in the atom's vortex and mystery in the sky's
dimensions. And when he had failed to find these boons in things whose
laws are known and measurable, they told him he lacked imagination, and
was immature because he preferred dream-illusions to the illusions of
our physical creation.

So Carter had tried to do as others did, and pretended that the common
events and emotions of earthly minds were more important than the
fantasies of rare and delicate souls. He did not dissent when they told
him that the animal pain of a stuck pig or dyspeptic plowman in real
life is a greater thing than the peerless beauty of Narath with its
hundred carven gates and domes of chalcedony, which he dimly remembered
from his dreams; and under their guidance he cultivated a painstaking
sense of pity and tragedy.

Once in a while, though, he could not help seeing how shallow, fickle,
and meaningless all human aspirations are, and how emptily our real
impulses contrast with those pompous ideals we profess to hold. Then
he would have recourse to the polite laughter they had taught him to
use against the extravagance and artificiality of dreams; for he saw
that the daily life of our world is every inch as extravagant and
artificial, and far less worthy of respect because of its poverty in
beauty and its silly reluctance to admit its own lack of reason and
purpose. In this way he became a kind of humorist, for he did not see
that even humor is empty in a mindless universe devoid of any true
standard of consistency or inconsistency.

In the first days of his bondage he had turned to the gentle churchly
faith endeared to him by the naïve trust of his fathers, for thence
stretched mystic avenues which seemed to promise escape from life. Only
on closer view did he mark the starved fancy and beauty, the stale and
prosy triteness, and the owlish gravity and grotesque claims of solid
truth which reigned boresomely and overwhelmingly among most of its
professors; or feel to the full the awkwardness with which it sought to
keep alive as literal fact the outgrown fears and guesses of a primal
race confronting the unknown. It wearied Carter to see how solemnly
people tried to make earthly reality out of old myths which every step
of their boasted science confuted, and this misplaced seriousness
killed the attachment he might have kept for the ancient creeds had
they been content to offer the sonorous rites and emotional outlets in
their true guise of ethereal fantasy.

But when he came to study those who had thrown off the old myths,
he found them even more ugly than those who had not. They did not
know that beauty lies in harmony, and that loveliness of life has no
standard amidst an aimless cosmos save only its harmony with the
dreams and the feelings which have gone before and blindly molded our
little spheres out of the rest of chaos. They did not see that good and
evil and beauty and ugliness are only ornamental fruits of perspective,
whose sole value lies in their linkage to what chance made our fathers
think and feel, and whose fine details are different for every race
and culture. Instead, they either denied these things altogether or
transferred them to the crude, vague instincts which they shared with
the beasts and peasants; so that their lives were dragged malodorously
out in pain, ugliness, and disproportion, yet filled with a ludicrous
pride at having escaped from something no more unsound than that which
still held them. They had traded the false gods of fear and blind piety
for those of license and anarchy.

Carter did not taste deeply of these modern freedoms; for their
cheapness and squalor sickened a spirit loving beauty alone, while
his reason rebelled at the flimsy logic with which their champions
tried to gild brute impulse with a sacredness stripped from the idols
they had discarded. He saw that most of them, in common with their
cast-off priestcraft, could not escape from the delusion that life
has a meaning apart from that which men dream into it; and could not
lay aside the crude notion of ethics and obligations beyond those
of beauty, even when all Nature shrieked of its unconsciousness and
impersonal unmorality in the light of their scientific discoveries.
Warped and bigoted with preconceived illusions of justice, freedom,
and consistency, they cast off the old lore and the old ways with the
old beliefs; nor ever stopped to think that that lore and those ways
were the sole makers of their present thoughts and judgments, and the
sole guides and standards in a meaningless universe without fixed
aims or stable points of reference. Having lost these artificial
settings, their lives grew void of direction and dramatic interest;
till at length they strove to drown their ennui in bustle and pretended
usefulness, noise and excitement, barbaric display and animal
sensation. When these things palled, disappointed, or grew nauseous
through revulsion, they cultivated irony and bitterness, and found
fault with the social order. Never could they realize that their brute
foundations were as shifting and contradictory as the gods of their
elders, and that the satisfaction of one moment is the bane of the
next. Calm, lasting beauty comes only in dream, and this solace the
world had thrown away when in its worship of the real it threw away the
secrets of childhood and innocence.

Amidst this chaos of hollowness and unrest Carter tried to live as
befitted a man of keen thought and good heritage. With his dreams
fading under the ridicule of the age he could not believe in anything,
but the love of harmony kept him close to the ways of his race and
station. He walked impassive through the cities of men, and sighed
because no vista seemed fully real; because every flash of yellow
sunlight on tall roofs and every glimpse of balustraded plazas in the
first lamps of evening served only to remind him of dreams he had once
known, and to make him homesick for ethereal lands he no longer knew
how to find. Travel was only a mockery; and even the Great War stirred
him but little, though he served from the first in the Foreign Legion
of France. For a while he sought friends, but soon grew weary of the
crudeness of their emotions, and the sameness and earthiness of their
visions. He felt vaguely glad that all his relatives were distant and
out of touch with him, for they could not have understood his mental
life. That is, none but his grandfather and great-uncle Christopher
could, and they were long dead.

Then he began once more the writing of books, which he had left off
when dreams first failed him. But here, too, was there no satisfaction
or fulfilment; for the touch of earth was upon his mind, and he could
not think of lovely things as he had done of yore. Ironic humor
dragged down all the twilight minarets he reared, and the earthy fear
of improbability blasted all the delicate and amazing flowers in his
faery gardens. The convention of assumed piety spilt mawkishness on
his characters, while the myth of an important reality and significant
human events and emotions debased all his high fantasy into thin-veiled
allegory and cheap social satire. His new novels were successful as his
old ones had never been; and because he knew how empty they must be to
please an empty herd, he burned them and ceased his writing. They were
very graceful novels, in which he urbanely laughed at the dreams he
lightly sketched; but he saw that their sophistication had sapped all
their life away.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was after this that he cultivated deliberate illusion, and dabbled
in the notions of the bizarre and the eccentric as an antidote for the
commonplace. Most of these, however, soon showed their poverty and
barrenness; and he saw that the popular doctrines of occultism are as
dry and inflexible as those of science, yet without even the slender
palliative of truth to redeem them. Gross stupidity, falsehood, and
muddled thinking are not dream; and form no escape from life to a mind
trained above their level. So Carter bought stranger books and sought
out deeper and more terrible men of fantastic erudition; delving into
arcana of consciousness that few have trod, and learning things about
the secret pits of life, legend, and immemorial antiquity which
disturbed him ever afterward. He decided to live on a rarer plane, and
furnished his Boston home to suit his changing moods; one room for
each, hung in appropriate colors, furnished with befitting books and
objects, and provided with sources of the proper sensations of light,
heat, sound, taste, and odor.

Once he heard of a man in the South who was shunned and feared for
the blasphemous things he read in prehistoric books and clay tablets
smuggled from India and Arabia. Him he visited, living with him and
sharing his studies for seven years, till horror overtook them one
midnight in an unknown and archaic graveyard, and only one emerged
where two had entered. Then he went back to Arkham, the terrible
witch-haunted old town of his forefathers in New England, and had
experiences in the dark, amidst the hoary willows and tottering gambrel
roofs, which made him seal for ever certain pages in the diary of a
wild-minded ancestor. But these horrors took him only to the edge of
reality, and were not of the true dream country he had known in youth;
so that at fifty he despaired of any rest or contentment in a world
grown too busy for beauty and too shrewd for dream.

Having perceived at last the hollowness and futility of real things,
Carter spent his days in retirement, and in wistful disjointed memories
of his dream-filled youth. He thought it rather silly that he bother
to keep on living at all, and got from a South American acquaintance
a very curious liquid to take him to oblivion without suffering.
Inertia and force of habit, however, caused him to defer action; and
he lingered indecisively among thoughts of old times, taking down the
strange hangings from his walls and refitting the house as it was in
his early boyhood--purple panes, Victorian furniture, and all.

With the passage of time he became almost glad he had lingered, for
his relics of youth and his cleavage from the world made life and
sophistication seem very distant and unreal; so much so that a touch of
magic and expectancy stole back into his nightly slumbers. For years
those slumbers had known only such twisted reflections of every-day
things as the commonest slumbers know, but now there returned a
flicker of something stranger and wilder; something of vaguely awesome
immanence which took the form of tensely clear pictures from his
childhood days, and made him think of little inconsequential things he
had long forgotten. He would often awake calling for his mother and
grandfather, both in their graves a quarter of a century.

Then one night his grandfather reminded him of the key. The gray
old scholar, as vivid as in life, spoke long and earnestly of their
ancient line, and of the strange visions of the delicate and sensitive
men who composed it. He spoke of the flame-eyed Crusader who learnt
wild secrets of the Saracens that held him captive; and of the first
Sir Randolph Carter who studied magic when Elizabeth was queen. He
spoke, too, of that Edmund Carter who had just escaped hanging in the
Salem witchcraft, and who had placed in an antique box a great silver
key handed down from his ancestors. Before Carter awaked, the gentle
visitant had told him where to find that box; that carved oak-box of
archaic wonder whose grotesque lid no hand had raised for two centuries.

In the dust and shadows of the great attic he found it, remote and
forgotten at the back of a drawer in a tall chest. It was about a foot
square, and its Gothic carvings were so fearful that he did not marvel
no person since Edmund Carter had dared open it. It gave forth no noise
when shaken, but was mystic with the scent of unremembered spices. That
it held a key was indeed only a dim legend, and Randolph Carter's
father had never known such a box existed. It was bound in rusty iron,
and no means was provided for working the formidable lock. Carter
vaguely understood that he would find within it some key to the lost
gate of dreams, but of where and how to use it his grandfather had told
him nothing.

An old servant forced the carven lid, shaking as he did so at the
hideous faces leering from the blackened wood, and at some unplaced
familiarity. Inside, wrapped in a discolored parchment, was a huge
key of tarnished silver covered with cryptical arabesques; but of any
legible explanation there was none. The parchment was voluminous, and
held only the strange hieroglyphs of an unknown tongue written with an
antique reed. Carter recognized the characters as those he had seen
on a certain papyrus scroll belonging to that terrible scholar of the
South who had vanished one midnight in a nameless cemetery. The man had
always shivered when he read this scroll, and Carter shivered now.

But he cleaned the key, and kept it by him nightly in its aromatic box
of ancient oak. His dreams were meanwhile increasing in vividness, and
though showing him none of the strange cities and incredible gardens
of the old days, were assuming a definite cast whose purpose could not
be mistaken. They were calling him back along the years, and with the
mingled wills of all his fathers were pulling him toward some hidden
and ancestral source. Then he knew he must go into the past and merge
himself with old things, and day after day he thought of the hills
to the north where haunted Arkham and the rushing Miskatonic and the
lonely rustic homestead of his people lay.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the brooding fire of autumn Carter took the old remembered way past
graceful lines of rolling hill and stone-walled meadow, distant vale
and hanging woodland, curving road and nestling farmstead, and the
crystal windings of the Miskatonic, crossed here and there by rustic
bridges of wood or stone. At one bend he saw a group of giant elms
among which an ancestor had oddly vanished a century and a half before,
and shuddered as the wind blew meaningly through them. Then there was
the crumbling farmhouse of old Goody Fowler the witch, with its little
evil windows and great roof sloping nearly to the ground on the north
side. He speeded up his car as he passed it, and did not slacken till
he had mounted the hill where his mother and her fathers before her
were born, and where the old white house still looked proudly across
the road at the breathlessly lovely panorama of rocky slope and verdant
valley, with the distant spires of Kingsport on the horizon, and hints
of the archaic, dream-laden sea in the farthest background.

Then came the steeper slope that held the old Carter place he had not
seen in over forty years. Afternoon was far gone when he reached the
foot, and at the bend half-way up he paused to scan the outspread
countryside golden and glorified in the slanting floods of magic poured
out by a western sun. All the strangeness and expectancy of his recent
dreams seemed present in this hushed and unearthly landscape, and he
thought of the unknown solitudes of other planets as his eyes traced
out the velvet and deserted lawns shining undulant between their
tumbled walls, the clumps of faery forest setting off far lines of
purple hills beyond hills, and the spectral wooded valley dipping down
in shadow to dank hollows where trickling waters crooned and gurgled
among swollen and distorted roots.

Something made him feel that motors did not belong in the realm he was
seeking, so he left his car at the edge of the forest, and putting the
great key in his coat pocket walked on up the hill. Woods now engulfed
him utterly, though he knew the house was on a high knoll that cleared
the trees except to the north. He wondered how it would look, for it
had been left vacant and untended through his neglect since the death
of his strange great-uncle Christopher thirty years before. In his
boyhood he had reveled through long visits there, and had found weird
marvels in the woods beyond the orchard.

Shadows thickened around him, for the night was near. Once a gap in
the trees opened up to the right, so that he saw off across leagues of
twilight meadow and spied the old Congregational steeple on Central
Hill in Kingsport; pink with the last flush of day, the panes of the
little round windows blazing with reflected fire. Then, when he was in
deep shadow again, he recalled with a start that the glimpse must have
come from childish memory alone, since the old white church had long
been torn down to make room for the Congregational Hospital. He had
read of it with interest, for the paper had told about some strange
burrows or passages found in the rocky hill beneath.

Through his puzzlement a voice piped, and he started again at its
familiarity after long years. Old Benijah Corey had been his Uncle
Christopher's hired man, and was aged even in those far-off times of
his boyhood visits. Now he must be well over a hundred, but that piping
voice could come from no one else. He could distinguish no words, yet
the tone was haunting and unmistakable. To think that "Old Benijy"
should still be alive!

"Mister Randy! Mister Randy! Whar be ye? D'ye want to skeer yer Aunt
Marthy plumb to death? Hain't she tuld ye to keep nigh the place in
the arternoon an' git back afur dark? Randy! Ran--dee!... He's the
beatin'est boy fer runnin' off in the woods I ever see; haff the time
a-settin' moonin' raound that snake-den in the upper timber-lot!...
Hey, yew, Ran--dee!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Randolph Carter stopped in the pitch darkness and rubbed his hand
across his eyes. Something was queer. He had been somewhere he ought
not to be; had strayed very far away to places where he had not
belonged, and was now inexcusably late. He had not noticed the time on
the Kingsport steeple, though he could easily have made it out with
his pocket telescope; but he knew his lateness was something very
strange and unprecedented. He was not sure he had his little telescope
with him, and put his hand in his blouse pocket to see. No, it was
not there, but there was the big silver key he had found in a box
somewhere. Uncle Chris had told him something odd once about an old
unopened box with a key in it, but Aunt Martha had stopped the story
abruptly, saying it was no kind of thing to tell a child whose head was
already too full of queer fancies. He tried to recall just where he
had found the key, but something seemed very confused. He guessed it
was in the attic at home in Boston, and dimly remembered bribing Parks
with half his week's allowance to help him open the box and keep quiet
about it; but when he remembered this, the face of Parks came up very
strangely, as if the wrinkles of long years had fallen upon the brisk
little cockney.

"Ran--dee! Ran--dee! Hi! Hi! Randy!"

A swaying lantern came around the black bend, and old Benijah pounced
on the silent and bewildered form of the pilgrim.

"Durn ye, boy, so thar ye be! Ain't ye got a tongue in yer head, that
ye can't answer a body? I ben callin' this haff hour, an' ye must a
heerd me long ago! Don't ye know yer Aunt Marthy's all a-fidget over
yer bein' off arter dark? Wait till I tell yer Uncle Chris when he
gets hum! Ye'd orta know these here woods ain't no fitten place to be
traipsin' this hour! They's things abroad what dun't do nobody no good,
as my gran'sir' knowed afur me. Come, Mister Randy, or Hannah wun't
keep supper no longer!"

So Randolph Carter was marched up the road where wondering stars
glimmered through high autumn boughs. And dogs barked as the yellow
light of small-paned windows shone out at the farther turn, and the
Pleiades twinkled across the open knoll where a great gambrel roof
stood black against the dim west. Aunt Martha was in the doorway, and
did not scold too hard when Benijah shoved the truant in. She knew
Uncle Chris well enough to expect such things of the Carter blood.
Randolph did not show his key, but ate his supper in silence and
protested only when bedtime came. He sometimes dreamed better when
awake, and he wanted to use that key.

In the morning Randolph was up early, and would have run off to the
upper timber-lot if Uncle Chris had not caught him and forced him
into his chair by the breakfast table. He looked impatiently around
the low-pitched room with the rag carpet and exposed beams and
corner-posts, and smiled only when the orchard boughs scratched at the
little leaded panes of the rear window. The trees and the hills were
close to him, and formed the gates of that timeless realm which was his
true country.

Then, when he was free, he felt in his blouse pocket for the key; and
being reassured, skipped off across the orchard to the rise beyond,
where the wooded hill climbed again to heights above even the treeless
knoll. The floor of the forest was mossy and mysterious, and great
lichened rocks rose vaguely here and there in the dim light like druid
monoliths among the swollen and twisted trunks of a sacred grove. Once
in his ascent Randolph crossed a rushing stream whose falls a little
way off sang runic incantations to the lurking fauns and ægipans and
dryads.

Then he came to the strange cave in the forest slope, the dreaded
"snake-den" which country folk shunned, and away from which Benijah had
warned him again and again. It was deep; far deeper than anyone but
Randolph suspected, for the boy had found a fissure in the farthermost
black corner that led to a loftier grotto beyond--a haunting sepulchral
place whose granite walls held a curious illusion of conscious
artifice. On this occasion he crawled in as usual, lighting his way
with matches filched from the sitting-room match-safe, and edging
through the final crevice with an eagerness hard to explain even to
himself. He could not tell why he approached the farther wall so
confidently, or why he instinctively drew forth the great silver key as
he did so. But on he went, and when he danced back to the house that
night he offered no excuses for his lateness, nor heeded in the least
the reproofs he gained for ignoring the noontide dinner-horn altogether.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now it is agreed by all the distant relatives of Randolph Carter that
something occurred to heighten his imagination in his tenth year. His
cousin, Ernest B. Aspinwall, Esq., of Chicago, is fully ten years his
senior and distinctly recalls a change in the boy after the autumn of
1883. Randolph had looked on scenes of fantasy that few others can
ever have beheld, and stranger still were some of the qualities which
he showed in relation to very mundane things. He seemed, in fine, to
have picked up an odd gift of prophecy; and reacted unusually to things
which, though at the time without meaning, were later found to justify
the singular impressions. In subsequent decades as new inventions,
new names, and new events appeared one by one in the book of history,
people would now and then recall wonderingly how Carter had years
before let fall some careless word of undoubted connection with what
was then far in the future. He did not himself understand these words,
or know why certain things made him feel certain emotions; but fancied
that some unremembered dream must be responsible. It was as early as
1897 that he turned pale when some traveler mentioned the French town
of Belloy-en-Santerre, and friends remembered it when he was almost
mortally wounded there in 1916, while serving with the Foreign Legion
in the Great War.

Carter's relatives talk much of these things because he has lately
disappeared. His little old servant Parks, who for years bore patiently
with his vagaries, last saw him on the morning he drove off alone in
his car with a key he had recently found. Parks had helped him get the
key from the old box containing it, and had felt strangely affected by
the grotesque carvings on the box, and by some other odd quality he
could not name. When Carter left, he had said he was going to visit his
old ancestral country around Arkham.

Half-way up Elm Mountain, on the way to the ruins of the old Carter
place, they found his motor set carefully by the roadside; and in it
was a box of fragrant wood with carvings that frightened the countrymen
who stumbled on it. The box held only a queer parchment whose
characters no linguist or paleographer has been able to decipher or
identify. Rain had long effaced any possible footprints, though Boston
investigators had something to say about evidences of disturbances
among the fallen timbers of the Carter place. It was, they averred,
as though someone had groped about the ruins at no distant period. A
common white handkerchief found among the forest rocks on the hillside
beyond can not be identified as belonging to the missing man.

There is talk of apportioning Randolph Carter's estate among his heirs,
but I shall stand firmly against this course because I do not believe
he is dead. There are twists of time and space, of vision and reality,
which only a dreamer can divine; and from what I know of Carter I think
he has merely found a way to traverse these mazes. Whether or not he
will ever come back, I can not say. He wanted the lands of dreams he
had lost, and yearned for the days of his childhood. Then he found a
key, and I somehow believe he was able to use it to strange advantage.

[Illustration: "There the bearded and finny Gnorri
build their labyrinths."]

I shall ask him when I see him, for I expect to meet him shortly in
a certain dream-city we both used to haunt. It is rumored in Ulthar,
beyond the River Skai, that a new king reigns on the opal throne of
Ilek-Vad, that fabulous town of turrets atop the hollow cliffs of glass
overlooking the twilight sea wherein the bearded and finny Gnorri build
their singular labyrinths, and I believe I know how to interpret this
rumor. Certainly, I look forward impatiently to the sight of that great
silver key, for in its cryptical arabesques there may stand symbolized
all the aims and mysteries of a blindly impersonal cosmos.

Through the Gates of the Silver Key

               By H. P. LOVECRAFT and E. HOFFMANN PRICE

            _A colossal story of cosmic scope by two of the
        greatest writers of weird fiction in the world today._

   "Through the Gates of the Silver Key," published complete in this
  issue, is an utterly amazing novelette. It is much more than a mere
piece of fiction, for it so far transcends human experiences, and even
  the wildest dreams of human beings, that the ideas and thoughts set
 forth in the tale are titanic. One searches the dictionaries in vain
  for words to describe this brilliant and astounding tale, which for
 sheer imaginative daring goes beyond anything ever printed before. It
       is the joint product of two of your most popular authors.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                        Weird Tales July 1934.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

                               CHAPTER 1

In a vast room hung with strangely figured arras and carpeted with
Boukhara rugs of impressive age and workmanship, four men were sitting
around a document-strown table. From the far corners, where odd tripods
of wrought iron were now and then replenished by an incredibly aged
negro in somber livery, came the hypnotic fumes of olibanum; while in
a deep niche on one side there ticked a curious, coffin-shaped clock
whose dial bore baffling hieroglyphs and whose four hands did not move
in consonance with any time system known on this planet. It was a
singular and disturbing room, but well fitted to the business then at
hand. For there, in the New Orleans home of this continent's greatest
mystic, mathematician and orientalist, there was being settled at last
the estate of a scarcely less great mystic, scholar, author and dreamer
who had vanished from the face of the earth four years before.

Randolph Carter, who had all his life sought to escape from the tedium
and limitations of waking reality in the beckoning vistas of dreams
and fabled avenues of other dimensions, disappeared from the sight
of man on the seventh of October, 1928, at the age of fifty-four.
His career had been a strange and lonely one, and there were those
who inferred from his curious novels many episodes more bizarre than
any in his recorded history. His association with Harley Warren, the
South Carolina mystic whose studies in the primal Naacal language of
the Himalayan priests had led to such outrageous conclusions, had
been close. Indeed, it was he who--one mist-mad, terrible night in an
ancient graveyard--had seen Warren descend into a dank and nitrous
vault, never to emerge. Carter lived in Boston, but it was from the
wild, haunted hills behind hoary and witch-accursed Arkham that all his
forebears had come. And it was amid these ancient, cryptically brooding
hills that he had ultimately vanished.

His old servant, Parks--who died early in 1930--had spoken of the
strangely aromatic and hideously carven box he had found in the attic,
and of the undecipherable parchments and queerly figured silver key
which that box had contained: matters of which Carter had also written
to others. Carter, he said, had told him that this key had come down
from his ancestors, and that it would help him to unlock the gates to
his lost boyhood, and to strange dimensions and fantastic realms which
he had hitherto visited only in vague, brief and elusive dreams. Then
one day Carter took the box and its contents and rode away in his car,
never to return.

Later on, people found the car at the side of an old, grass-grown
road in the hills behind crumbling Arkham--the hills where Carter's
forebears had once dwelt, and where the ruined cellar of the great
Carter homestead still gaped to the sky. It was in a grove of tall elms
near by that another of the Carters had mysteriously vanished in 1781,
and not far away was the half-rotted cottage where Goody Fowler, the
witch, had brewed her ominous potions still earlier. The region had
been settled in 1692 by fugitives from the witchcraft trials in Salem,
and even now it bore a name for vaguely ominous things scarcely to be
envisaged. Edmund Carter had fled from the shadow of Gallows Hill just
in time, and the tales of his sorceries were many. Now, it seemed, his
lone descendant had gone somewhere to join him!

In the car they found the hideously carved box of fragrant wood,
and the parchment which no man could read. The silver key was
gone--presumably with Carter. Further than that there was no certain
clue. Detectives from Boston said that the fallen timbers of the old
Carter place seemed oddly disturbed, and somebody found a handkerchief
on the rock-ridged, sinisterly wooded slope behind the ruins near the
dreaded cave called the Snake Den.

It was then that the country legends about the Snake Den gained a new
vitality. Farmers whispered of the blasphemous uses to which old Edmund
Carter the wizard had put that horrible grotto, and added later tales
about the fondness which Randolph Carter himself had had for it when
a boy. In Carter's boyhood the venerable gambrel-roofed homestead was
still standing and tenanted by his great-uncle Christopher. He had
visited there often, and had talked singularly about the Snake Den.
People remembered what he had said about a deep fissure and an unknown
inner cave beyond, and speculated on the change he had shown after
spending one whole memorable day in the cavern when he was nine. That
was in October, too--and ever after that he had seemed to have an
uncanny knack at prophesying future events.

       *       *       *       *       *

It had rained late in the night that Carter vanished, and no one was
quite able to trace his footprints from the car. Inside the Snake Den
all was amorphous liquid mud, owing to the copious seepage. Only the
ignorant rustics whispered about the prints they thought they spied
where the great elms overhang the road, and on the sinister hillside
near the Snake Den, where the handkerchief was found. Who could pay
attention to whispers that spoke of stubby little tracks like those
which Randolph Carter's square-toed boots made when he was a small boy?
It was as crazy a notion as that other whisper--that the tracks of old
Benijah Corey's peculiar heelless boots had met the stubby little
tracks in the road. Old Benijah had been the Carters' hired man when
Randolph was young; but he had died thirty years ago.

It must have been these whispers--plus Carter's own statement to Parks
and others that the queerly arabesqued silver key would help him unlock
the gates of his lost boyhood--which caused a number of mystical
students to declare that the missing man had actually doubled back on
the trail of time and returned through forty-five years to that other
October day in 1883 when he had stayed in the Snake Den as a small boy.
When he came out that night, they argued, he had somehow made the whole
trip to 1928 and back; for did he not thereafter know of things which
were to happen later? And yet he had never spoken of anything to happen
after 1928.

One student--an elderly eccentric of Providence, Rhode Island, who
had enjoyed a long and close correspondence with Carter--had a still
more elaborate theory, and believed that Carter had not only returned
to boyhood, but achieved a further liberation, roving at will through
the prismatic vistas of boyhood dream. After a strange vision this man
published a tale of Carter's vanishing in which he hinted that the lost
one now reigned as king on the opal throne of Ilek-Vad, that fabulous
town of turrets atop the hollow cliffs of glass overlooking the
twilight sea wherein the bearded and finny Gnorri build their singular
labyrinths.

It was this old man, Ward Phillips, who pleaded most loudly against the
apportionment of Carter's estate to his heirs--all distant cousins--on
the ground that he was still alive in another time-dimension and might
well return some day. Against him was arrayed the legal talent of
one of the cousins, Ernest K. Aspinwall of Chicago, a man ten years
Carter's senior, but keen as a youth in forensic battles. For four
years the contest had raged, but now the time for apportionment had
come, and this vast, strange room in New Orleans was to be the scene of
the arrangements.

It was the home of Carter's literary and financial executor--the
distinguished Creole student of mysteries and Eastern antiquities,
Etienne-Laurent de Marigny. Carter had met de Marigny during the war,
when they both served in the French Foreign Legion, and had at once
cleaved to him because of their similar tastes and outlook. When, on
a memorable joint furlough, the learned young Creole had taken the
wistful Boston dreamer to Bayonne, in the south of France, and had
shown him certain terrible secrets in the nighted and immemorial crypts
that burrow beneath that brooding, eon-weighted city, the friendship
was forever sealed. Carter's will had named de Marigny as executor, and
now that avid scholar was reluctantly presiding over the settlement of
the estate. It was sad work for him, for like the old Rhode Islander he
did not believe that Carter was dead. But what weight have the dreams
of mystics against the harsh wisdom of the world?

       *       *       *       *       *

Around the table in that strange room in the old French Quarter sat
the men who claimed an interest in the proceedings. There had been
the usual legal advertisements of the conference in papers wherever
Carter's heirs were thought to live; yet only four now sat listening
to the abnormal ticking of that coffin-shaped clock which told no
earthly time, and to the bubbling of the courtyard fountain beyond
half-curtained, fan-lighted windows. As the hours wore on, the faces
of the four were half shrouded in the curling fumes from the tripods,
which, piled recklessly with fuel, seemed to need less and less
attention from the silently gliding and increasingly nervous old negro.

There was Etienne de Marigny himself--slim, dark, handsome, mustached,
and still young. Aspinwall, representing the heirs, was white-haired,
apoplectic-faced, side-whiskered, and portly. Phillips, the Providence
mystic, was lean, gray, long-nosed, clean-shaven, and stoop-shouldered.
The fourth man was non-committal in age--lean, with a dark, bearded,
singularly immobile face of very regular contour, bound with the
turban of a high-caste Brahman and having night-black, burning, almost
irisless eyes which seemed to gaze out from a vast distance behind
the features. He had announced himself as the Swami Chandraputra, an
adept from Benares, with important information to give; and both de
Marigny and Phillips--who had corresponded with him--had been quick to
recognize the genuineness of his mystical pretensions. His speech had
an oddly forced, hollow, metallic quality, as if the use of English
taxed his vocal apparatus; yet his language was as easy, correct and
idiomatic as any native Anglo-Saxon's. In general attire he was the
normal European civilian, but his loose clothes sat peculiarly badly
on him, while his bushy black beard, Eastern turban, and large, white
mittens gave him an air of exotic eccentricity.

De Marigny, fingering the parchment found in Carter's car, was speaking.

"No, I have not been able to make anything of the parchment. Mr.
Phillips, here, also gives it up. Colonel Churchward declares it is
not Naacal, and it looks nothing at all like the hieroglyphics on that
Easter Island war-club. The carvings on that box, though, do strongly
suggest Easter Island images. The nearest thing I can recall to these
parchment characters--notice how all the letters seem to hang down
from horizontal word-bars--is the writing in a book poor Harley Warren
once had. It came from India while Carter and I were visiting him in
1919, and he never would tell us anything about it--said it would be
better if we didn't know, and hinted that it might have come originally
from some place other than the Earth. He took it with him in December,
when he went down into the vault in that old graveyard--but neither
he nor the book ever came to the surface again. Some time ago I sent
our friend here--the Swami Chandraputra--a memory-sketch of some of
those letters, and also a photostatic copy of the Carter parchment. He
believes he may be able to shed light on them after certain references
and consultations.

"But the key--Carter sent me a photograph of that. Its curious
arabesques were not letters, but seem to have belonged to the same
culture-tradition as the parchment. Carter always spoke of being on
the point of solving the mystery, though he never gave details. Once
he grew almost poetic about the whole business. That antique silver
key, he said, would unlock the successive doors that bar our free
march down the mighty corridors of space and time to the very Border
which no man has crossed since Shaddad with his terrific genius
built and concealed in the sands of Arabia Petræa the prodigious
domes and uncounted minarets of thousand-pillared Irem. Half-starved
darvishes--wrote Carter--and thirst-crazed nomads have returned to tell
of that monumental portal, and of the hand that is sculptured above the
keystone of the arch, but no man has passed and retraced his steps to
say that his footprints on the garnet-strown sands within bear witness
to his visit. The key, he surmised, was that for which the cyclopean
sculptured hand vainly grasps.

"Why Carter didn't take the parchment as well as the key, we can not
say. Perhaps he forgot it--or perhaps he forbore to take it through
recollection of one who had taken a book of like characters into a
vault and never returned. Or perhaps it was really immaterial to what
he wished to do."

As de Marigny paused, old Mr. Phillips spoke in a harsh, shrill voice.

"We can know of Randolph Carter's wandering only what we dream. I have
been to many strange places in dreams, and have heard many strange and
significant things in Ulthar, beyond the River Skai. It does not appear
that the parchment was needed, for certainly Carter re-entered the
world of his boyhood dreams, and is now a king in Ilek-Vad."

Mr. Aspinwall grew doubly apoplectic-looking as he sputtered: "Can't
somebody shut that old fool up? We've had enough of these moonings. The
problem is to divide the property, and it's about time we got to it."

For the first time Swami Chandraputra spoke in his queerly alien voice.

"Gentlemen, there is more to this matter than you think. Mr. Aspinwall
does not do well to laugh at the evidence of dreams. Mr. Phillips has
taken an incomplete view--perhaps because he has not dreamed enough.
I, myself, have done much dreaming. We in India have always done that,
just as all the Carters seem to have done it. You, Mr. Aspinwall, as a
maternal cousin, are naturally not a Carter. My own dreams, and certain
other sources of information, have told me a great deal which you
still find obscure. For example, Randolph Carter forgot that parchment
which he couldn't decipher--yet it would have been well for him had he
remembered to take it. You see, I have really learned pretty much what
happened to Carter after he left his car with the silver key at sunset
on that seventh of October, four years ago."

Aspinwall audibly sneered, but the others sat up with heightened
interest. The smoke from the tripods increased, and the crazy ticking
of that coffin-shaped clock seemed to fall into bizarre patterns like
the dots and dashes of some alien and insoluble telegraph message
from outer space. The Hindoo leaned back, half closed his eyes, and
continued in that oddly labored yet idiomatic speech, while before
his audience there began to float a picture of what had happened to
Randolph Carter.

                               CHAPTER 2

The hills beyond Arkham are full of a strange magic--something,
perhaps, which the old wizard Edmund Carter called down from the stars
and up from the crypts of nether earth when he fled there from Salem
in 1692. As soon as Randolph Carter was back among them he knew that
he was close to one of the gates which a few audacious, abhorred and
alien-souled men have blasted through titan walls betwixt the world
and the outside absolute. Here, he felt, and on this day of the year,
he could carry out with success the message he had deciphered months
before from the arabesques of that tarnished and incredibly ancient
silver key. He knew now how it must be rotated, and how it must be held
up to the setting sun, and what syllables of ceremony must be intoned
into the void at the ninth and last turning. In a spot as close to
a dark polarity and induced gate as this, it could not fail in its
primary functions. Certainly, he would rest that night in the lost
boyhood for which he had never ceased to mourn.

He got out of the car with the key in his pocket, walking up-hill
deeper and deeper into the shadowy core of that brooding, haunted
countryside of winding road, vine-grown stone wall, black woodland,
gnarled, neglected orchard, gaping-windowed, deserted farmhouse, and
nameless ruin. At the sunset hour, when the distant spires of Kingsport
gleamed in the ruddy blaze, he took out the key and made the needed
turnings and intonations. Only later did he realize how soon the ritual
had taken effect.

Then in the deepening twilight he had heard a voice out of the past:
Old Benijah Corey, his great-uncle's hired man. Had not old Benijah
been dead for thirty years? Thirty years before _when_? What was time?
Where had he been? Why was it strange that Benijah should be calling
him on this seventh of October, 1883? Was he not out later than Aunt
Martha had told him to stay? What was this key in his blouse pocket,
where his little telescope--given him by his father on his ninth
birthday, two months before--ought to be? Had he found it in the attic
at home? Would it unlock the mystic pylon which his sharp eye had
traced amidst the jagged rocks at the back of that inner cave behind
the Snake Den on the hill? That was the place they always coupled with
old Edmund Carter the wizard. People wouldn't go there, and nobody but
him had ever noticed or squirmed through the root-choked fissure to
that great black inner chamber with the pylon. Whose hands had carved
that hint of a pylon out of the living rock? Old Wizard Edmund's--or
_others_ that he had conjured up and commanded?

That evening little Randolph ate supper with Uncle Chris and Aunt
Martha in the old gambrel-roofed farmhouse.

Next morning he was up early and out through the twisted-boughed apple
orchard to the upper timber-lot where the mouth of the Snake Den
lurked black and forbidding amongst grotesque, over-nourished oaks. A
nameless expectancy was upon him, and he did not even notice the loss
of his handkerchief as he fumbled in his blouse pocket to see if the
queer silver key was safe. He crawled through the dark orifice with
tense, adventurous assurance, lighting his way with matches taken
from the sitting-room. In another moment he had wriggled through the
root-choked fissure at the farther end, and was in the vast, unknown
inner grotto whose ultimate rock wall seemed half like a monstrous and
consciously shapen pylon. Before that dank, dripping wall he stood
silent and awestruck, lighting one match after another as he gazed.
Was that stony bulge above the keystone of the imagined arch really a
gigantic sculptured hand? Then he drew forth the silver key, and made
motions and intonations whose source he could only dimly remember. Was
anything forgotten? He knew only that he wished to cross the barrier to
the untrammelled land of his dreams and the gulfs where all dimensions
dissolved in the absolute.

                               CHAPTER 3

What happened then is scarcely to be described in words. It is full of
those paradoxes, contradictions and anomalies which have no place in
waking life, but which fill our more fantastic dreams and are taken as
matters of course till we return to our narrow, rigid, objective world
of limited causation and tri-dimensional logic. As the Hindoo continued
his tale, he had difficulty in avoiding what seemed--even more than
the notion of a man transferred through the years to boyhood--an air
of trivial, puerile extravagance. Mr. Aspinwall, in disgust, gave an
apoplectic snort and virtually stopped listening.

For the rite of the silver key, as practised by Randolph Carter in that
black, haunted cave within a cave, did not prove unavailing. From the
first gesture and syllable an aura of strange, awesome mutation was
apparent--a sense of incalculable disturbance and confusion in time
and space, yet one which held no hint of what we recognize as motion
and duration. Imperceptibly, such things as age and location ceased
to have any significance whatever. The day before, Randolph Carter
had miraculously leaped a gulf of years. Now there was no distinction
between boy and man. There was only the entity Randolph Carter, with a
certain store of images which had lost all connection with terrestrial
scenes and circumstances of acquisition. A moment before, there had
been an inner cave with vague suggestions of a monstrous arch and
gigantic sculptured hand on the farther wall. Now there was neither
cave nor absence of cave; neither wall nor absence of wall. There was
only a flux of impressions not so much visual as cerebral, amidst
which the entity that was Randolph Carter experienced perceptions or
registrations of all that his mind revolved on, yet without any clear
consciousness of the way in which he received them.

By the time the rite was over, Carter knew that he was in no region
whose place could be told by Earth's geographers, and in no age whose
date history could fix; for the nature of what was happening was not
wholly unfamiliar to him. There were hints of it in the cryptical
Pnakotic fragments, and a whole chapter in the forbidden _Necronomicon_
of the mad Arab, Abdul Alhazred, had taken on significance when he
had deciphered the designs graven on the silver key. A gate had been
unlocked--not, indeed, the Ultimate Gate, but one leading from Earth
and time to that extension of Earth which is outside time, and from
which in turn the Ultimate Gate leads fearsomely and perilously to the
Last Void which is outside all earths, all universes, and all matter.

There would be a Guide--and a very terrible one; a Guide who had been
an entity of Earth millions of years before, when man was undreamed of,
and when forgotten shapes moved on a steaming planet building strange
cities among whose last, crumbling ruins the first mammals were to
play. Carter remembered what the monstrous _Necronomicon_ had vaguely
and disconcertingly adumbrated concerning that Guide:

"_And while there are those_," the mad Arab had written, "_who have
dared to seek glimpses beyond the Veil, and to accept HIM as guide,
they would have been more prudent had they avoided commerce with HIM;
for it is written in the Book of Thoth how terrific is the price of
a single glimpse. Nor may those who pass ever return, for in the
vastnesses transcending our world are shapes of darkness that seize
and bind. The Affair that shambleth about in the night, the evil that
defieth the Elder Sign, the Herd that stand watch at the secret portal
each tomb is known to have, and that thrive on that which groweth out
of the tenants thereof:--all these Blacknesses are lesser than HE WHO
guardeth the Gateway: HE WHO will guide the rash one beyond all the
worlds into the Abyss of unnamable devourers. For HE is 'UMR AT-TAWIL,
the Most Ancient One, which the scribe rendereth as THE PROLONGED OF
LIFE._"

Memory and imagination shaped dim half-pictures with uncertain outlines
amidst the seething chaos, but Carter knew that they were of memory and
imagination only. Yet he felt that it was not chance which built these
things in his consciousness, but rather some vast reality, ineffable
and undimensioned, which surrounded him and strove to translate itself
into the only symbols he was capable of grasping. For no mind of Earth
may grasp the extensions of shape which interweave in the oblique gulfs
outside time and the dimensions we know.

There floated before Carter a cloudy pageantry of shapes and scenes
which he somehow linked with Earth's primal, eon-forgotten past.
Monstrous living things moved deliberately through vistas of fantastic
handiwork that no sane dream ever held, and landscapes bore incredible
vegetation and cliffs and mountains and masonry of no human pattern.
There were cities under the sea, and denizens thereof; and towers in
great deserts where globes and cylinders and nameless winged entities
shot off into space, or hurtled down out of space. All this Carter
grasped, though the images bore no fixed relation to one another or to
him. He himself had no stable form or position, but only such shifting
hints of form and position as his whirling fancy supplied.

He had wished to find the enchanted regions of his boyhood dreams,
where galleys sail up the river Oukranos past the gilded spires of
Thran, and elephant caravans tramp through perfumed jungles in Kled,
beyond forgotten palaces with veined ivory columns that sleep lovely
and unbroken under the moon. Now, intoxicated with wider visions, he
scarcely knew what he sought. Thoughts of infinite and blasphemous
daring rose in his mind, and he knew he would face the dreaded Guide
without fear, asking monstrous and terrible things of him.

All at once the pageant of impressions seemed to achieve a vague kind
of stabilization. There were great masses of towering stone, carven
into alien and incomprehensible designs and disposed according to
the laws of some unknown, inverse geometry. Light filtered down from
a sky of no assignable color in baffling, contradictory directions,
and played almost sentiently over what seemed to be a curved line of
gigantic hieroglyphed pedestals more hexagonal than otherwise, and
surmounted by cloaked, ill-defined shapes.

There was another shape, too, which occupied no pedestal, but which
seemed to glide or float over the cloudy, floor-like lower level. It
was not exactly permanent in outline, but held transient suggestions of
something remotely preceding or paralleling the human form, though half
as large again as an ordinary man. It seemed to be heavily cloaked,
like the shapes on the pedestals, with some neutral-colored fabric;
and Carter could not detect any eye-holes through which it might gaze.
Probably it did not need to gaze, for it seemed to belong to an order
of beings far outside the merely physical in organization and faculties.

A moment later Carter knew that this was so, for the Shape had spoken
to his mind without sound or language. And though the name it uttered
was a dreaded and terrible one, Randolph Carter did not flinch in fear.
Instead, he spoke back, equally without sound or language, and made
those obeisances which the hideous _Necronomicon_ had taught him to
make. For this shape was nothing less than that which all the world has
feared since Lomar rose out of the sea, and the Children of the Fire
Mist came to Earth to teach the Elder Lore to man. It was indeed the
frightful Guide and Guardian of the Gate--'UMR AT-TAWIL, the ancient
one, which the scribe rendereth the PROLONGED OF LIFE.

The Guide knew, as he knew all things, of Carter's quest and coming,
and that this seeker of dreams and secrets stood before him unafraid.
There was no horror or malignity in what he radiated, and Carter
wondered for a moment whether the mad Arab's terrific blasphemous hints
came from envy and a baffled wish to do what was now about to be done.
Or perhaps the Guide reserved his horror and malignity for those who
feared. As the radiations continued, Carter eventually interpreted them
in the form of words.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I am indeed that Most Ancient One," said the Guide, "of whom you know.
We have awaited you--the Ancient Ones and I. You are welcome, even
though long delayed. You have the key, and have unlocked the First
Gate. Now the Ultimate Gate is ready for your trial. If you fear, you
need not advance. You may still go back unharmed, the way you came. But
if you choose to advance----"

The pause was ominous, but the radiations continued to be friendly.
Carter hesitated not a moment, for a burning curiosity drove him on.

"I will advance," he radiated back, "and I accept you as my Guide."

At this reply the Guide seemed to make a sign by certain motions of his
robe which may or may not have involved the lifting of an arm or some
homologous member. A second sign followed, and from his well-learned
lore Carter knew that he was at last very close to the Ultimate Gate.
The light now changed to another inexplicable color, and the shapes on
the quasi-hexagonal pedestals became more clearly defined. As they sat
more erect, their outlines became more like those of men, though Carter
knew that they could not be men. Upon their cloaked heads there now
seemed to rest tall, uncertainly colored miters, strangely suggestive
of those on certain nameless figures chiselled by a forgotten sculptor
along the living cliffs of a high, forbidden mountain in Tartary; while
grasped in certain folds of their swathings were long scepters whose
carven heads bodied forth a grotesque and archaic mystery.

Carter guessed what they were and whence they came, and Whom they
served; and guessed, too, the price of their service. But he was still
content, for at one mighty venture he was to learn all. Damnation, he
reflected, is but a word bandied about by those whose blindness leads
them to condemn all who can see, even with a single eye. He wondered at
the vast conceit of those who had babbled of the _malignant_ Ancient
Ones, as if They could pause from their everlasting dreams to wreak a
wrath on mankind. As well, he thought, might a mammoth pause to visit
frantic vengeance on an angleworm. Now the whole assemblage on the
vaguely hexagonal pillars was greeting him with a gesture of those
oddly carven scepters and radiating a message which he understood:

"We salute you, Most Ancient One, and you, Randolph Carter, whose
daring has made you one of us."

Carter saw now that one of the pedestals was vacant, and a gesture
of the Most Ancient One told him it was reserved for him. He saw
also another pedestal, taller than the rest, and at the center of
the oddly curved line--neither semicircle nor ellipse, parabola nor
hyperbola--which they formed. This, he guessed, was the Guide's own
throne. Moving and rising in a manner hardly definable, Carter took his
seat; and as he did so he saw that the Guide had seated himself.

Gradually and mistily it became apparent that the Most Ancient One
was holding something--some object clutched in the outflung folds of
his robe as if for the sight, or what answered for sight, of the
cloaked Companions. It was a large sphere, or apparent sphere, of
some obscurely iridescent metal, and as the Guide put it forward a
low, pervasive half-impression of _sound_ began to rise and fall in
intervals which seemed to be rhythmic even though they followed no
rhythm of Earth. There was a suggestion of chanting--or what human
imagination might interpret as chanting. Presently the quasi-sphere
began to grow luminous, and as it gleamed up into a cold, pulsating
light of unassignable color, Carter saw that its flickerings conformed
to the alien rhythm of the chant. Then all the mitered, scepter-bearing
Shapes on the pedestals commenced a slight, curious swaying in the same
inexplicable rhythm, while nimbuses of unclassifiable light--resembling
that of the quasi-sphere--played around their shrouded heads.

The Hindoo paused in his tale and looked curiously at the tall,
coffin-shaped clock with the four hands and hieroglyphed dial, whose
crazy ticking followed no known rhythm of Earth.

"You, Mr. de Marigny," he suddenly said to his learned host, "do not
need to be told the particularly alien rhythm to which those cowled
Shapes on the hexagonal pillars chanted and nodded. You are the only
one else--in America--who has had a taste of the Outer Extension. That
clock--I suppose it was sent you by the Yogi poor Harley Warren used
to talk about--the seer who said that he alone of living men had been
to Yian-Ho, the hidden legacy of eon-old Leng, and had borne certain
things away from that dreadful and forbidden city. I wonder how many of
its subtler properties you know? If my dreams and readings be correct,
it was made by those who knew much of the First Gateway. But let me go
on with my tale."

       *       *       *       *       *

At last, continued the Swami, the swaying and the suggestion of
chanting ceased, the lambent nimbuses around the now drooping and
motionless heads faded, while the cloaked shapes slumped curiously on
their pedestals. The quasi-sphere, however, continued to pulsate with
inexplicable light. Carter felt that the Ancient Ones were sleeping
as they had been when he first saw them, and he wondered out of what
cosmic dreams his coming had aroused them. Slowly there filtered into
his mind the truth that this strange chanting ritual had been one of
instruction, and that the Companions had been chanted by the Most
Ancient One into a new and peculiar kind of sleep in order that their
dreams might open the Ultimate Gate to which the silver key was a
passport. He knew that in the profundity of this deep sleep they were
contemplating unplumbed vastnesses of utter and absolute outsideness,
and that they were to accomplish that which his presence had demanded.

The Guide did not share this sleep, but seemed still to be giving
instructions in some subtle, soundless way. Evidently he was implanting
images of those things which he wished the Companions to dream: and
Carter knew that as each of the Ancient Ones pictured the prescribed
thought, there would be born the nucleus of a manifestation visible
to his earthly eyes. When the dreams of all the Shapes had achieved a
oneness, that manifestation would occur, and everything he required
be materialized, through concentration. He had seen such things on
Earth--in India, where the combined, projected will of a circle of
adepts can make a thought take tangible substance, and in hoary
Atlaanât, of which few even dare speak.

Just what the Ultimate Gate was, and how it was to be passed, Carter
could not be certain; but a feeling of tense expectancy surged over
him. He was conscious of having a kind of body, and of holding the
fateful silver key in his hand. The masses of towering stone opposite
him seemed to possess the evenness of a wall, toward the center of
which his eyes were irresistibly drawn. And then suddenly he felt the
mental currents of the Most Ancient One cease to flow forth.

For the first time Carter realized how terrific utter silence, mental
and physical, may be. The earlier moments had never failed to contain
some perceptible rhythm, if only the faint, cryptical pulse of the
Earth's dimensional extension, but now the hush of the abyss seemed
to fall upon everything. Despite his intimations of body, he had no
audible breath; and the glow of 'Umr at-Tawil's quasi-sphere had grown
petrifiedly fixed and unpulsating. A potent nimbus, brighter than those
which had played round the heads of the Shapes, blazed frozenly over
the shrouded skull of the terrible Guide.

A dizziness assailed Carter, and his sense of lost orientation waxed
a thousandfold. The strange lights seemed to hold the quality of the
most impenetrable blacknesses heaped upon blacknesses, while about
the Ancient Ones, so close on their pseudo-hexagonal thrones, there
hovered an air of the most stupefying remoteness. Then he felt himself
wafted into immeasurable depths, with waves of perfumed warmth lapping
against his face. It was as if he floated in a torrid, rose-tinctured
sea; a sea of drugged wine whose waves broke foaming against shores of
brazen fire. A great fear clutched him as he half saw that vast expanse
of surging sea lapping against its far-off coast. But the moment of
silence was broken--the surgings were speaking to him in a language
that was not of physical sound or articulate words.

"_The Man of Truth is beyond good and evil_," intoned a voice that was
not a voice. "_The Man of Truth has ridden to All-Is-One. The Man of
Truth has learned that Illusion is the One Reality, and that Substance
is the Great Impostor._"

And now, in that rise of masonry to which his eyes had been so
irresistibly drawn, there appeared the outline of a titanic arch not
unlike that which he thought he had glimpsed so long ago in that cave
within a cave, on the far, unreal surface of the three-dimensioned
Earth. He realized that he had been using the silver key--moving it in
accord with an unlearned and instinctive ritual closely akin to that
which had opened the Inner Gate. That rose-drunken sea which lapped
his cheeks was, he realized, no more or less than the adamantine mass
of the solid wall yielding before his spell, and the vortex of thought
with which the Ancient Ones had aided his spell. Still guided by
instinct and blind determination, he floated forward--and through the
Ultimate Gate.

                               CHAPTER 4

Randolph Carter's advance through that cyclopean bulk of masonry was
like a dizzy precipitation through the measureless gulfs between the
stars. From a great distance he felt triumphant, god-like surges of
deadly sweetness, and after that the rustling of great wings, and
impressions of sound like the chirpings and murmurings of objects
unknown on Earth or in the solar system. Glancing backward, he saw not
one gate alone, but a multiplicity of gates, at some of which clamored
Forms he strove not to remember.

And then, suddenly, he felt a greater terror than that which any of the
Forms could give--a terror from which he could not flee because it was
connected with himself. Even the First Gateway had taken something of
stability from him, leaving him uncertain about his bodily form and
about his relationship to the mistily defined objects around him, but
it had not disturbed his sense of unity. He had still been Randolph
Carter, a fixed point in the dimensional seething. Now, beyond the
Ultimate Gateway, he realized in a moment of consuming fright that he
was not one person, but many persons.

He was in many places at the same time. On Earth, on October 7, 1883,
a little boy named Randolph Carter was leaving the Snake Den in the
hushed evening light and running down the rocky slope, and through
the twisted-boughed orchard toward his Uncle Christopher's house in
the hills beyond Arkham; yet at that same moment, which was also
somehow in the earthly year of 1928, a vague shadow not less Randolph
Carter was sitting on a pedestal among the Ancient Ones in Earth's
transdimensional extension. Here, too, was a third Randolph Carter,
in the unknown and formless cosmic abyss beyond the Ultimate Gate.
And elsewhere, in a chaos of scenes whose infinite multiplicity and
monstrous diversity brought him close to the brink of madness, were a
limitless confusion of beings which he knew were as much himself as the
local manifestation now beyond the Ultimate Gate.

There were Carters in settings belonging to every known and suspected
age of Earth's history, and to remoter ages of earthly entity
transcending knowledge, suspicion, and credibility; Carters of forms
both human and non-human, vertebrate and invertebrate, conscious and
mindless, animal and vegetable. And more, there were Carters having
nothing in common with earthly life, but moving outrageously amidst
backgrounds of other planets and systems and galaxies and cosmic
continua; spores of eternal life drifting from world to world, universe
to universe, yet all equally himself. Some of the glimpses recalled
dreams--both faint and vivid, single and persistent--which he had
had through the long years since he first began to dream; and a few
possessed a haunting, fascinating and almost horrible familiarity which
no earthly logic could explain.

Faced with this realization, Randolph Carter reeled in the clutch
of supreme horror--horror such as had not been hinted even at the
climax of that hideous night when two had ventured into an ancient
and abhorred necropolis under a waning moon and only one had emerged.
No death, no doom, no anguish can arouse the surpassing despair which
flows from a loss of _identity_. Merging with nothingness is peaceful
oblivion; but to be aware of existence and yet to know that one is no
longer a definite being distinguished from other beings--that one no
longer has a _self_--that is the nameless summit of agony and dread.

He knew that there had been a Randolph Carter of Boston, yet could
not be sure whether he--the fragment or facet of an entity beyond the
Ultimate Gate--had been that one or some other. His _self_ had been
annihilated; and yet he--if indeed there could, in view of that utter
nullity of individual existence, be such a thing as _he_--was equally
aware of being in some inconceivable way a legion of selves. It was
as though his body had been suddenly transformed into one of those
many-limbed and many-headed effigies sculptured in Indian temples, and
he contemplated the aggregation in a bewildered attempt to discern
which was the original and which the additions--if indeed (supremely
monstrous thought!) there _were_ any original as distinguished from
other embodiments.

Then, in the midst of these devastating reflections, Carter's
beyond-the-gate fragment was hurled from what had seemed the nadir of
horror to black, clutching pits of a horror still more profound. This
time it was largely external--a force or personality which at once
confronted and surrounded and pervaded him, and which in addition to
its local presence, seemed also to be a part of himself, and likewise
to be co-existent with all time and conterminous with all space. There
was no visual image, yet the sense of entity and the awful concept of
combined localism and identity and infinity lent a paralyzing terror
beyond anything which any Carter-fragment had hitherto deemed capable
of existing.

In the face of that awful wonder, the quasi-Carter forgot the horror
of destroyed individuality. It was an All-in-One and One-in-All
of limitless being and self--not merely a thing of one space-time
continuum, but allied to the ultimate animating essence of existence's
whole unbounded sweep--the last, utter sweep which has no confines and
which outreaches fancy and mathematics alike. It was perhaps that which
certain secret cults of Earth had whispered of as _Yog-Sothoth_, and
which has been a deity under other names; that which the crustaceans
of Yuggoth worship as the Beyond-One, and which the vaporous brains of
the spiral nebulæ know by an untranslatable sign--yet in a flash the
Carter-facet realized how slight and fractional all these conceptions
are.

And now the Being was addressing the Carter-facet in prodigious waves
that smote and burned and thundered--a concentration of energy that
blasted its recipient with well-nigh unendurable violence, and that
paralleled in an unearthly rhythm the curious swaying of the Ancient
Ones, and the flickering of the monstrous lights, in that baffling
region beyond the First Gate. It was as though suns and worlds and
universes had converged upon one point whose very position in space
they had conspired to annihilate with an impact of resistless fury. But
amidst the greater terror one lesser terror was diminished; for the
searing waves appeared somehow to isolate the Beyond-the-Gate Carter
from his infinity of duplicates--to restore, as it were, a certain
amount of the illusion of identity. After a time the hearer began to
translate the waves into speech-forms known to him, and his sense of
horror and oppression waned. Fright became pure awe, and what had
seemed blasphemously abnormal seemed now only ineffably majestic.

"Randolph Carter," it seemed to say, "my manifestations on your
planet's extension, the Ancient Ones, have sent you as one who would
lately have returned to small lands of dream which he had lost, yet
who with greater freedom has risen to greater and nobler desires and
curiosities. You wished to sail up golden Oukranos, to search out
forgotten ivory cities in orchid-heavy Kled, and to reign on the opal
throne of Ilek-Vad, whose fabulous towers and numberless domes rise
mighty toward a single red star in a filament alien to your Earth and
to all matter. Now, with the passing of two Gates, you wish loftier
things. You would not flee like a child from a scene disliked to a
dream beloved, but would plunge like a man into that last and inmost of
secrets which lies behind all scenes and dreams.

"What you wish, I have found good; and I am ready to grant that which
I have granted eleven times only to beings of your planet--five times
only to those you call men, or those resembling them. I am ready to
show you the Ultimate Mystery, to look on which is to blast a feeble
spirit. Yet before you gaze full at that last and first of secrets you
may still wield a free choice, and return if you will through the two
Gates with the Veil still unrent before your eyes."

                               CHAPTER 5

A sudden shutting-off of the waves left Carter in a chilling and
awesome silence full of the spirit of desolation. On every hand pressed
the illimitable vastness of the void; yet the seeker knew that the
Being was still there. After a moment he thought of words whose mental
substance he flung into the abyss: "I accept. I will not retreat."

The waves surged forth again, and Carter knew that the Being had heard.
And now there poured from that limitless Mind a flood of knowledge and
explanation which opened new vistas to the seeker, and prepared him
for such a grasp of the cosmos as he had never hoped to possess. He
was told how childish and limited is the notion of a tri-dimensional
world, and what an infinity of directions there are besides the known
directions of up-down, forward-backward, right-left. He was shown the
smallness and tinsel emptiness of the little Earth gods, with their
petty, human interests and connections--their hatreds, rages, loves and
vanities; their craving for praise and sacrifice, and their demands for
faiths contrary to reason and nature.

While most of the impressions translated themselves to Carter as words,
there were others to which other senses gave interpretation. Perhaps
with eyes and perhaps with imagination he perceived that he was in a
region of dimensions beyond those conceivable to the eye and brain of
man. He saw now, in the brooding shadows of that which had been first
a vortex of power and then an illimitable void, a sweep of creation
that dizzied his senses. From some inconceivable vantage-point he
looked upon prodigious forms whose multiple extensions transcended any
conception of being, size and boundaries which his mind had hitherto
been able to hold, despite a lifetime of cryptical study. He began to
understand dimly why there could exist at the same time the little boy
Randolph Carter in the Arkham farmhouse in 1883, the misty form on the
vaguely hexagonal pillar beyond the First Gate, the fragment now facing
the Presence in the limitless abyss, and all the other Carters his
fancy or perception envisaged.

Then the waves increased in strength and sought to improve his
understanding, reconciling him to the multiform entity of which his
present fragment was an infinitesimal part. They told him that every
figure of space is but the result of the intersection by a plane of
some corresponding figure of one more dimension--as a square is cut
from a cube, or a circle from a sphere. The cube and sphere, of three
dimensions, are thus cut from corresponding forms of four dimensions,
which men know only through guesses and dreams; and these in turn
are cut from forms of five dimensions, and so on up to the dizzy and
reachless heights of archetypal infinity. The world of men and of
the gods of men is merely an infinitesimal phase of an infinitesimal
thing--the three-dimensional phase of that small wholeness reached
by the First Gate, where Umr at-Tawil dictates dreams to the
Ancient Ones. Though men hail it as reality, and brand thoughts of
its many-dimensioned original as unreality, it is in truth the very
opposite. That which we call substance and reality is shadow and
illusion, and that which we call shadow and illusion is substance and
reality.

Time, the waves went on, is motionless, and without beginning or end.
That it has motion and is the cause of change is an illusion. Indeed,
it is itself really an illusion, for except to the narrow sight of
beings in limited dimensions there are no such things as past, present
and future. Men think of time only because of what they call change,
yet that too is illusion. All that was, and is, and is to be, exists
simultaneously.

These revelations came with a god-like solemnity which left Carter
unable to doubt. Even though they lay almost beyond his comprehension,
he felt that they must be true in the light of that final cosmic
reality which belies all local perspectives and narrow partial views;
and he was familiar enough with profound speculations to be free from
the bondage of local and partial conceptions. Had his whole quest not
been based upon a faith in the unreality of the local and partial?

After an impressive pause the waves continued, saying that what the
denizens of few-dimensioned zones call change is merely a function
of their consciousness, which views the external world from various
cosmic angles. As the Shapes produced by the cutting of a cone seem to
vary with the angles of cutting--being circle, ellipse, parabola or
hyperbola according to that angle, yet without any change in the cone
itself--so do the local aspects of an unchanged and endless reality
seem to change with the cosmic angle of regarding. To this variety
of angles of consciousness the feeble beings of the inner worlds are
slaves, since with rare exceptions they can not learn to control them.
Only a few students of forbidden things have gained inklings of this
control, and have thereby conquered time and change. But the entities
outside the Gates command all angles, and view the myriad parts of the
cosmos in terms of fragmentary change-involving perspective, or of the
changeless totality beyond perspective, in accordance with their will.

As the waves paused again, Carter began to comprehend, vaguely
and terrifiedly, the ultimate background of that riddle of lost
individuality which had at first so horrified him. His intuition pieced
together the fragments of revelation, and brought him closer and closer
to a grasp of the secret. He understood that much of the frightful
revelation would have come upon him--splitting up his ego amongst
myriads of earthly counterparts--inside the First Gate, had not the
magic of 'Umr at-Tawil kept it from him in order that he might use the
silver key with precision for the Ultimate Gate's opening. Anxious for
clearer knowledge, he sent out waves of thought, asking more of the
exact relationship between his various facets--the fragment now beyond
the Ultimate Gate, the fragment still on the quasi-hexagonal pedestal
beyond the First Gate, the boy of 1883, the man of 1928, the various
ancestral beings who had formed his heritage and the bulwark of his
ego, and the nameless denizens of the other eons and other worlds which
that first hideous flash of ultimate perception had identified with
him. Slowly the waves of the Being surged out in reply, trying to make
plain what was almost beyond the reach of an earthly mind.

All descended lines of beings of the finite dimensions, continued
the waves, and all stages of growth in each one of these beings, are
merely manifestations of one archetypal and eternal being in the space
outside dimensions. Each local being--son, father, grandfather, and so
on--and each stage of individual being--infant, child, boy, man--is
merely one of the infinite phases of that same archetypal and eternal
being, caused by a variation in the angle of the consciousness-plane
which cuts it. Randolph Carter at all ages; Randolph Carter and all his
ancestors, both human and pre-human, terrestrial and pre-terrestrial;
all these were only phases of one ultimate, eternal "Carter" outside
space and time--phantom projections differentiated only by the angle at
which the plane of consciousness happened to cut the eternal archetype
in each case.

A slight change of angle could turn the student of today into the
child of yesterday; could turn Randolph Carter into that wizard,
Edmund Carter who fled from Salem to the hills behind Arkham in 1692,
or that Pickman Carter who in the year 2169 would use strange means
in repelling the Mongol hordes from Australia; could turn a human
Carter into one of those earlier entities which had dwelt in primal
Hyperborea and worshipped black, plastic Tsathoggua after flying down
from Kythamil, the double planet that once revolved around Arcturus;
could turn a terrestrial Carter to a remotely ancestral and doubtfully
shaped dweller on Kythamil itself, or a still remoter creature of
trans-galactic Stronti, or a four-dimensioned gaseous consciousness in
an older space-time continuum, or a vegetable brain of the future on a
dark, radio-active comet of inconceivable orbit--and so on, in endless
cosmic cycle.

The archetypes, throbbed the waves, are the people of the Ultimate
Abyss--formless, ineffable, and guessed at only by rare dreamers on
the low-dimensioned worlds. Chief among such was this informing Being
itself ... _which indeed was Carter's own archetype_. The glutless zeal
of Carter and all his forebears for forbidden cosmic secrets was a
natural result of derivation from the Supreme Archetype. On every world
all great wizards, all great thinkers, all great artists, are facets of
It.

       *       *       *       *       *

Almost stunned with awe, and with a kind of terrifying delight,
Randolph Carter's consciousness did homage to that transcendent Entity
from which it was derived. As the waves paused again he pondered in the
mighty silence, thinking of strange tributes, stranger questions, and
still stranger requests. Curious concepts flowed conflictingly through
a brain dazed with unaccustomed vistas and unforeseen disclosures.
It occurred to him that, if these disclosures were literally true,
he might bodily visit all those infinitely distant ages and parts of
the universe which he had hitherto known only in dreams, could he but
command the magic to change the angle of his consciousness-plane. And
did not the silver key supply that magic? Had it not first changed
him from a man in 1928 to a boy in 1883, and then to something quite
outside time? Oddly, despite his present apparent absence of body, he
knew that the key was still with him.

While the silence still lasted, Randolph Carter radiated forth
the thoughts and questions which assailed him. He knew that in
this ultimate abyss he was equidistant from every facet of his
archetype--human or non-human, terrestrial or extra-terrestrial,
galactic or trans-galactic; and his curiosity regarding the other
phases of his being--especially those phases which were farthest from
an earthly 1928 in time and space, or which had most persistently
haunted his dreams throughout life--was at fever heat. He felt that his
archetypal Entity could at will send him bodily to any of these phases
of bygone and distant life by changing his consciousness-plane, and
despite the marvels he had undergone he burned for the further marvel
of walking in the flesh through those grotesque and incredible scenes
which visions of the night had fragmentarily brought him.

Without definite intention he was asking the Presence for access
to a dim, fantastic world whose five multicolored suns, alien
constellations, dizzily black crags, clawed, tapir-snouted denizens,
bizarre metal towers, unexplained tunnels, and cryptical floating
cylinders had intruded again and again upon his slumbers. That world,
he felt vaguely, was in all the conceivable cosmos the one most freely
in touch with others; and he longed to explore the vistas whose
beginnings he had glimpsed, and to embark through space to those still
remoter worlds with which the clawed, snouted denizens trafficked.
There was no time for fear. As at all crises of his strange life, sheer
cosmic curiosity triumphed over everything else.

When the waves resumed their awesome pulsing, Carter knew that his
terrible request was granted. The Being was telling him of the nighted
gulfs through which he would have to pass, of the unknown quintuple
star in an unsuspected galaxy around which the alien world revolved,
and of the burrowing inner horrors against which the clawed, snouted
race of that world perpetually fought. It told him, too, of how the
angle of his personal consciousness-plane, and the angle of his
consciousness-plane regarding the space-time elements of the sought-for
world, would have to be tilted simultaneously in order to restore to
that world the Carter-facet which had dwelt there.

The Presence warned him to be sure of his symbols if he wished ever to
return from the remote and alien world he had chosen, and he radiated
back an impatient affirmation; confident that the silver key, which he
felt was with him and which he knew had tilted both world and personal
planes in throwing him back to 1883, contained those symbols which
were meant. And now the Being, grasping his impatience, signified its
readiness to accomplish the monstrous precipitation. The waves abruptly
ceased, and there supervened a momentary stillness tense with nameless
and dreadful expectancy.

Then, without warning, came a whirring and drumming that swelled to a
terrific thundering. Once again Carter felt himself the focal point of
an intense concentration of energy which smote and hammered and seared
unbearably in the now-familiar rhythm of outer space, and which he
could not classify as either the blasting heat of a blazing star, or
the all-petrifying cold of the ultimate abyss. Bands and rays of color
utterly foreign to any spectrum of our universe played and wove and
interlaced before him, and he was conscious of a frightful velocity of
motion. He caught one fleeting glimpse of a figure sitting _alone_ upon
a cloudy throne more hexagonal than otherwise....

                               CHAPTER 6

As the Hindoo paused in his story he saw that de Marigny and Phillips
were watching him absorbedly. Aspinwall pretended to ignore the
narrative and kept his eyes ostentatiously on the papers before him.
The alien-rhythmed ticking of the coffin-shaped clock took on a new and
portentous meaning, while the fumes from the choked, neglected tripods
wove themselves into fantastic and inexplicable shapes, and formed
disturbing combinations with the grotesque figures of the draft-swayed
tapestries. The old negro who had tended them was gone--perhaps
some growing tension had frightened him out of the house. An almost
apologetic hesitancy hampered the speaker as he resumed in his oddly
labored yet idiomatic voice.

"You have found these things of the abyss hard to believe," he said,
"but you will find the tangible and material things ahead still
harder. That is the way of our minds. Marvels are doubly incredible
when brought into three dimensions from the vague regions of possible
dream. I shall not try to tell you much--that would be another and very
different story. I will tell only what you absolutely have to know."

Carter, after that final vortex of alien and polychromatic rhythm,
had found himself in what for a moment he thought was his old
insistent dream. He was, as many a night before, walking amidst
throngs of clawed, snouted beings through the streets of a labyrinth
of inexplicably fashioned metal under a blaze of diverse solar color;
and as he looked down he saw that his body was like those of the
others--rugose, partly squamous, and curiously articulated in a fashion
mainly insect-like yet not without a caricaturish resemblance to the
human outline. The silver key was still in his grasp, though held by a
noxious-looking claw.

In another moment the dream-sense vanished, and he felt rather as
one just awakened from a dream. The ultimate abyss--the Being--the
entity of absurd, outlandish race called Randolph Carter on a world
of the future not yet born--some of these things were parts of the
persistent recurrent dreams of the wizard Zkauba on the planet Yaddith.
They were too persistent--they interfered with his duties in weaving
spells to keep the frightful Dholes in their burrows, and became mixed
up with his recollections of the myriad real worlds he had visited
in light-beam envelopes. And now they had become quasi-real as never
before. This heavy, material silver key in his right upper claw, exact
image of one he had dreamt about, meant no good. He must rest and
reflect, and consult the tablets of Nhing for advice on what to do.
Climbing a metal wall in a lane off the main concourse, he entered his
apartment and approached the rack of tablets.

Seven day-fractions later Zkauba squatted on his prism in awe and half
despair, for the truth had opened up a new and conflicting set of
memories. Nevermore could he know the peace of being one entity. For
all time and space he was two: Zkauba the wizard of Yaddith, disgusted
with the thought of the repellent earth-mammal Carter that he was to be
and had been, and Randolph Carter, of Boston on the Earth, shivering
with fright at the clawed, snouted thing which he had once been, and
had become again.

The time units spent on Yaddith, croaked the Swami--whose labored voice
was beginning to show signs of fatigue--made a tale in themselves
which could not be related in brief compass. There were trips to
Stronti and Mthura and Kath, and other worlds in the twenty-eight
galaxies accessible to the light-beam envelopes of the creatures of
Yaddith, and trips back and forth through eons of time with the aid of
the silver key and various other symbols known to Yaddith's wizards.
There were hideous struggles with the bleached viscous Dholes in the
primal tunnels that honeycombed the planet. There were awed sessions
in libraries amongst the massed lore of ten thousand worlds living
and dead. There were tense conferences with other minds of Yaddith,
including that of the Arch-Ancient Buo. Zkauba told no one of what
had befallen his personality, but when the Randolph Carter facet was
uppermost he would study furiously every possible means of returning
to the Earth and to human form, and would desperately practise human
speech with the alien throat-organs so ill adapted to it.

The Carter-facet had soon learned with horror that the silver key
was unable to effect his return to human form. It was, as he deduced
too late from things he remembered, things he dreamed, and things he
inferred from the lore of Yaddith, a product of Hyperborea on Earth;
with power over the personal consciousness-angles of human beings
alone. It could, however, change the planetary angle and send the user
at will through time in an unchanged body. There had been an added
spell which gave it limitless powers it otherwise lacked; but this,
too, was a human discovery--peculiar to a spatially unreachable region,
and not to be duplicated by the wizards of Yaddith. It had been written
on the undecipherable parchment in the hideously carven box with the
silver key, and Carter bitterly lamented that he had left it behind.
The now inaccessible Being of the abyss had warmed him to be sure of
his symbols, and had doubtless thought he lacked nothing.

As time wore on he strove harder and harder to utilize the monstrous
lore of Yaddith in finding a way back to the abyss and the omnipotent
Entity. With his new knowledge he could have done much toward reading
the cryptic parchment; but that power, under present conditions, was
merely ironic. There were times, however, when the Zkauba-facet was
uppermost, and when he strove to erase the conflicting Carter-memories
which troubled him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus long spaces of time wore on--ages longer than the brain of man
could grasp, since the beings of Yaddith die only after prolonged
cycles. After many hundreds of revolutions the Carter-facet seemed to
gain on the Zkauba-facet, and would spend vast periods calculating
the distance of Yaddith in space and time from the human Earth that
was to be. The figures were staggering--eons of light-years beyond
counting--but the immemorial lore of Yaddith fitted Carter to grasp
such things. He cultivated the power of dreaming himself momentarily
Earthward, and learned many things about our planet that he had never
known before. But he could not dream the needed formula on the missing
parchment.

Then at last he conceived a wild plan of escape from Yaddith--which
began when he found a drug that would keep his Zkauba-facet always
dormant, yet without dissolution of the knowledge and memories of
Zkauba. He thought that his calculations would let him perform a
voyage with a light-wave envelope such as no being of Yaddith had
ever performed--a _bodily_ voyage through nameless eons and across
incredible galactic reaches to the solar system and the Earth itself.
Once on Earth, though in the body of a clawed, snouted thing, he
might be able somehow to find--and finish deciphering--the strangely
hieroglyphed parchment he had left in the car at Arkham; and with its
aid--and the key's--resume his normal terrestrial semblance.

He was not blind to the perils of the attempt. He knew that when he
had brought the planet-angle to the right eon (a thing impossible
to do while hurtling through space), Yaddith would be a dead world
dominated by triumphant Dholes, and that his escape in the light-wave
envelope would be a matter of grave doubt. Likewise was he aware of
how he must achieve suspended animation, in the manner of an adept, to
endure the eon-long flight through fathomless abysses. He knew, too,
that--assuming his voyage succeeded--he must immunize himself to the
bacterial and other earthly conditions hostile to a body from Yaddith.
Furthermore, he must provide a way of feigning human shape on Earth
until he might recover and decipher the parchment and resume that shape
in truth. Otherwise he would probably be discovered and destroyed by
the people in horror as a thing that should not be. And there must be
some gold--luckily obtainable on Yaddith--to tide him over that period
of quest.

Slowly Carter's plans went forward. He provided a light-wave
envelope of abnormal toughness, able to stand both the prodigious
time-transition and the unexampled flight through space. He tested all
his calculations, and sent forth his Earthward dreams again and again,
bringing them as close as possible to 1928. He practised suspended
animation with marvelous success. He discovered just the bacterial
agent he needed, and worked out the varying gravity-stress to which
he must become used. He artfully fashioned a waxen mask and loose
costume enabling him to pass among men as a human being of a sort,
and devised a doubly potent spell with which to hold back the Dholes
at the moment of his starting from the dead, black Yaddith of the
inconceivable future. He took care, too, to assemble a large supply of
the drugs--unobtainable on Earth--which would keep his Zkauba-facet
in abeyance till he might shed the Yaddith body, nor did he neglect a
small store of gold for earthly use.

The starting-day was a time of doubt and apprehension. Carter climbed
up to his envelope-platform, on the pretext of sailing for the triple
star Nython, and crawled into the sheath of shining metal. He had just
room to perform the ritual of the silver key, and as he did so he
slowly started the levitation of his envelope. There was an appalling
seething and darkening of the day, and a hideous racking of pain. The
cosmos seemed to reel irresponsibly, and the other constellations
danced in a black sky.

[Illustration: "Below him the ground was festering with gigantic
Dholes."]

All at once Carter felt a new equilibrium. The cold of interstellar
gulfs gnawed at the outside of his envelope, and he could see that he
floated free in space--the metal building from which he had started
having decayed years before. Below him the ground was festering with
gigantic Dholes; and even as he looked, one reared up several hundred
feet and levelled a bleached, viscous end at him. But his spells were
effective, and in another moment he was falling away from Yaddith,
unharmed.

                               CHAPTER 7

In that bizarre room in New Orleans, from which the old black servant
had instinctively fled, the odd voice of Swami Chandraputra grew
hoarser still.

"Gentlemen," he continued, "I will not ask you to believe these things
until I have shown you special proof. Accept it, then, as a myth, when
I tell you of the _thousands of light-years--thousands of years of
time, and uncounted billions of miles_ that Randolph Carter hurtled
through space as a nameless, alien entity in a thin envelope of
electron-activated metal. He timed his period of suspended animation
with utmost care, planning to have it end only a few years before the
time of landing on the Earth in or near 1928.

"He will never forget that awakening. Remember, gentlemen, that
before that eon-long sleep _he had lived consciously for thousands of
terrestrial years amidst the alien and horrible wonders of Yaddith_.
There was a hideous gnawing of cold, a cessation of menacing dreams,
and a glance through the eye-plates of the envelope. Stars, clusters,
nebulæ, on every hand--_and at last their outlines bore some kinship
to the constellations of Earth that he knew_.

"Some day his descent into the solar system may be told. He saw Kynarth
and Yuggoth on the rim, passed close to Neptune and glimpsed the
hellish white fungi that spot it, learned an untellable secret from
the close-glimpsed mists of Jupiter, and saw the horror on one of the
satellites, and gazed at the cyclopean ruins that sprawl over Mars'
ruddy disk. When the Earth drew near he saw it as a thin crescent which
swelled alarmingly in size. He slackened speed, though his sensations
of homecoming made him wish to lose not a moment. I will not try to
tell you of those sensations as I learned them from Carter.

"Well, toward the last Carter hovered about in the Earth's upper air
waiting till daylight came over the Western Hemisphere. He wanted to
land where he had left--near the Snake Den in the hills behind Arkham.
If any of you have been away from home long--and I know one of you
has--I leave it to you how the sight of New England's rolling hills
and great elms and gnarled orchards and ancient stone walls must have
affected him.

"He came down at dawn in the lower meadow of the old Carter place, and
was thankful for the silence and solitude. It was autumn, as when he
had left, and the smell of the hills was balm to his soul. He managed
to drag the metal envelope up the slope of the timber-lot into the
Snake Den, though it would not go through the weed-choked fissure to
the inner cave. It was there also that he covered his alien body with
the human clothing and waxen mask which would be necessary. He kept the
envelope here for over a year, till certain circumstances made a new
hiding-place necessary.

"He walked to Arkham--incidentally practising the management of his
body in human posture and against terrestrial gravity--and got his gold
changed to money at a bank. He also made some inquiries--posing as a
foreigner ignorant of much English--and found that the year was 1930,
only two years after the goal he had aimed at.

"Of course, his position was horrible. Unable to assert his identity,
forced to live on guard every moment, with certain difficulties
regarding food, and with a need to conserve the alien drug which kept
his Zkauba-facet dormant, he felt that he must act as quickly as
possible. Going to Boston and taking a room in the decaying West End,
where he could live cheaply and inconspicuously, he at once established
inquiries concerning Randolph Carter's estate and effects. It was then
that he learned how anxious Mr. Aspinwall, here, was to have the estate
divided, and how valiantly Mr. de Marigny and Mr. Phillips strove to
keep it intact."

The Hindoo bowed, though no expression crossed his dark, tranquil, and
thickly bearded face.

"Indirectly," he continued, "Carter secured a good copy of the missing
parchment and began working on its deciphering. I am glad to say that
I was able to help in all this--for he appealed to me quite early, and
through me came in touch with other mystics throughout the world. I
went to live with him in Boston--a wretched place in Chambers Street.
As for the parchment--I am pleased to help Mr. de Marigny in his
perplexity. To him let me say that the language of those hieroglyphics
is not Naacal, but R'lyehian, which was brought to Earth by the spawn
of Cthulhu countless ages ago. It is, of course, a translation--there
was an Hyperborean original millions of years earlier in the primal
tongue of Tsath-yo.

"There was more to decipher than Carter had looked for, but at no
time did he give up hope. Early this year he made great strides
through a book he imported from Nepal, and there is no question but
that he will win before long. Unfortunately, however, one handicap
has developed--the exhaustion of the alien drug which keeps the
Zkauba-facet dormant. This is not, however, as great a calamity as was
feared. Carter's personality is gaining in the body, and when Zkauba
comes uppermost--for shorter and shorter periods, and now only when
evoked by some unusual excitement--he is generally too dazed to undo
any of Carter's work. He can not find the metal envelope that would
take him back to Yaddith, for although he almost did, once, Carter hid
it anew at a time when the Zkauba-facet was wholly latent. All the harm
he has done is to frighten a few people and create certain nightmare
rumors among the Poles and Lithuanians of Boston's West End. So far, he
has never injured the careful disguise prepared by the Carter-facet,
though he sometimes throws it off so that parts have to be replaced. I
have seen what lies beneath--and it is not good to see.

"A month ago Carter saw the advertisement of this meeting, and knew
that he must act quickly to save his estate. He could not wait to
decipher the parchment and resume his human form. Consequently he
deputed me to act for him.

"Gentlemen, I say to you that Randolph Carter is not dead; that he is
temporarily in an anomalous condition, but that within two or three
months at the outside he will be able to appear in proper form and
demand the custody of his estate. I am prepared to offer proof if
necessary. Therefore I beg that you will adjourn this meeting for an
indefinite period."

                               CHAPTER 8

De Marigny and Phillips stared at the Hindoo as if hypnotized, while
Aspinwall emitted a series of snorts and bellows. The old attorney's
disgust had by now surged into open rage, and he pounded the table with
an apoplectically veined fist. When he spoke, it was in a kind of bark.

"How long is this foolery to be borne? I've listened an hour to this
madman--this faker--and now he has the damned effrontery to say
Randolph Carter is alive--to ask us to postpone the settlement for no
good reason! Why don't you throw the scoundrel out, de Marigny? Do you
mean to make us all the butts of a charlatan or idiot?"

De Marigny quietly raised his hand and spoke softly.

"Let us think slowly and clearly. This has been a very singular
tale, and there are things in it which I, as a mystic not altogether
ignorant, recognize as far from impossible. Furthermore--since 1930 I
have received letters from the Swami which tally with his account."

As he paused, old Mr. Phillips ventured a word.

"Swami Chandraputra spoke of proofs. I, too, recognize much that
is significant in this story, and I have myself had many oddly
corroborative letters from the Swami during the last two years; but
some of these statements are very extreme. Is there not something
tangible which can be shown?"

At last the impassive-faced Swami replied, slowly and hoarsely, and
drawing an object from the pocket of his loose coat as he spoke.

"While none of you here has ever _seen_ the silver key itself, Messrs.
de Marigny and Phillips have seen photographs of it. _Does this look
familiar to you?_"

He fumblingly laid on the table, with his large, white-mittened hand,
a heavy key of tarnished silver--nearly five inches long, of unknown
and utterly exotic workmanship, and covered from end to end with
hieroglyphs of the most bizarre description. De Marigny and Phillips
gasped.

"That's it!" cried de Marigny. "The camera doesn't lie. I couldn't be
mistaken!"

But Aspinwall had already launched a reply.

"Fools! What does it prove? If that's really the key that belonged to
my cousin, it's up to this foreigner--this damned nigger--to explain
how he got it! Randolph Carter vanished with the key four years ago.
How do we know he wasn't robbed and murdered? He was half crazy
himself, and in touch with still crazier people.

"Look here, you nigger--where did you get that key? Did you kill
Randolph Carter?"

The Swami's features, abnormally placid, did not change; but the
remote, irisless black eyes behind them blazed dangerously. He spoke
with great difficulty.

"Please control yourself, Mr. Aspinwall. There is another form of
proof that I _could_ give, but its effect upon everybody would not be
pleasant. Let us be reasonable. Here are some papers obviously written
since 1930, and in the unmistakable style of Randolph Carter."

He clumsily drew a long envelope from inside his loose coat and handed
it to the sputtering attorney as de Marigny and Phillips watched with
chaotic thoughts and a dawning feeling of supernal wonder.

"Of course the handwriting is almost illegible--but remember that
Randolph Carter now has no hands well adapted to forming human script."

Aspinwall looked through the papers hurriedly, and was visibly
perplexed, but he did not change his demeanor. The room was tense
with excitement and nameless dread, and the alien rhythm of the
coffin-shaped clock had an utterly diabolic sound to de Marigny and
Phillips, though the lawyer seemed affected not at all.

Aspinwall spoke again. "These look like clever forgeries. If they
aren't, they may mean that Randolph Carter has been brought under the
control of people with no good purpose. There's only one thing to
do--have this faker arrested. De Marigny, will you telephone for the
police?"

"Let us wait," answered their host. "I do not think this case calls for
the police. I have a certain idea. Mr. Aspinwall, this gentleman is a
mystic of real attainments. He says he is in the confidence of Randolph
Carter. Will it satisfy you if he can answer certain questions which
could be answered only by one in such confidence? I know Carter, and
can ask such questions. Let me get a book which I think will make a
good test."

He turned toward the door to the library, Phillips dazedly following
in a kind of automatic way. Aspinwall remained where he was, studying
closely the Hindoo who confronted him with abnormally impassive face.
Suddenly, as Chandraputra clumsily restored the silver key to his
pocket, the lawyer emitted a guttural shout.

"Hey, by Heaven! I've got it! This rascal is in disguise. I don't
believe he's an East Indian at all. That face--it isn't a face, but
a _mask_! I guess his story put that into my head, but it's true. It
never moves, and that turban and beard hide the edges. This fellow's
a common crook! He isn't even a foreigner--I've been watching his
language. He's a Yankee of some sort. And look at those mittens--he
knows his fingerprints could be spotted. Damn you, I'll pull that thing
off----"

"Stop!" The hoarse, oddly alien voice of the Swami held a tone beyond
all mere earthly fright. "I told you there was _another form of proof
which I could give if necessary_, and I warned you not to provoke me to
it. This red-faced old meddler is right--I'm not really an East Indian.
_This face is a mask, and what it covers is not human._ You others have
guessed--I felt that minutes ago. It wouldn't be pleasant if I took
that mask off--let it alone, Ernest. I may as well tell you that _I am
Randolph Carter_."

       *       *       *       *       *

No one moved. Aspinwall snorted and made vague motions. De Marigny
and Phillips, across the room, watched the workings of the red face
and studied the back of the turbaned figure that confronted him. The
clock's abnormal ticking was hideous, and the tripod fumes and swaying
arras danced a dance of death. The half-choking lawyer broke the
silence.

"No you don't, you crook--you can't scare me! You've reasons of your
own for not wanting that mask off. Maybe we'd know who you are. Off
with it----"

As he reached forward, the Swami seized his hand with one of his own
clumsily mittened members, evoking a curious cry of mixed pain and
surprize. De Marigny started toward the two, but paused confused as
the pseudo-Hindoo's shout of protest changed to a wholly inexplicable
rattling and buzzing sound. Aspinwall's red face was furious, and with
his free hand he made another lunge at his opponent's bushy beard.
This time he succeeded in getting a hold, and at his frantic tug the
whole waxen visage came loose from the turban and clung to the lawyer's
apoplectic fist.

As it did so, Aspinwall uttered a frightful gurgling cry, and Phillips
and de Marigny saw his face convulsed with a wilder, deeper and more
hideous epilepsy of stark panic than ever they had seen on human
countenance before. The pseudo-Swami had meanwhile released his other
hand and was standing as if dazed, making buzzing noises of a most
abnormal quality. Then the turbaned figure slumped oddly into a posture
scarcely human, and began a curious, fascinated sort of shuffle toward
the coffin-shaped clock that ticked out its cosmic and abnormal rhythm.
His now uncovered face was turned away, and de Marigny and Phillips
could not see what the lawyer's act had disclosed. Then their attention
was turned to Aspinwall, who was sinking ponderously to the floor. The
spell was broken--but when they reached the old man he was dead.

Turning quickly to the shuffling Swami's receding back, de Marigny saw
one of the great white mittens drop listlessly off a dangling arm. The
fumes of the olibanum were thick, and all that could be glimpsed of the
revealed hand was something long and black. Before the Creole could
reach the retreating figure, old Mr. Phillips laid a restraining hand
on his shoulder.

"Don't!" he whispered. "We don't know what we're up against. That other
facet, you know--Zkauba, the wizard of Yaddith...."

The turbaned figure had now reached the abnormal clock, and the
watchers saw through the dense fumes a blurred black claw fumbling with
the tall, hieroglyphed door. The fumbling made a queer, clicking sound.
Then the figure entered the coffin-shaped case and pulled the door shut
after it.

De Marigny could no longer be restrained, but when he reached and
opened the clock it was empty. The abnormal ticking went on, beating
out the dark, cosmic rhythm which underlies all mystical gate-openings.
On the floor the great white mitten, and the dead man with a bearded
mask clutched in his hand, had nothing further to reveal.

       *       *       *       *       *

A year passed, and nothing has been heard of Randolph Carter. His
estate is still unsettled. The Boston address from which one "Swami
Chandraputra" sent inquiries to various mystics in 1930-31-32 was
indeed tenanted by a strange Hindoo, but he left shortly before the
date of the New Orleans conference and has never been seen since. He
was said to be dark, expressionless, and bearded, and his landlord
thinks the swarthy mask--which was duly exhibited--looks very much
like him. He was never, however, suspected of any connection with the
nightmare apparitions whispered of by local Slavs. The hills behind
Arkham were searched for the "metal envelope," but nothing of the sort
was ever found. However, a clerk in Arkham's First National Bank does
recall a queer turbaned man who cashed an odd bit of gold bullion in
October, 1930.

De Marigny and Phillips scarcely know what to make of the business.
After all, what was proved? There was a story. There was a key which
might have been forged from one of the pictures Carter had freely
distributed in 1928. There were papers--all indecisive. There was a
masked stranger, but who now living saw behind the mask? Amidst the
strain and the olibanum fumes that act of vanishing in the clock might
easily have been a dual hallucination. Hindoos know much of hypnotism.
Reason proclaims the "Swami" a criminal with designs on Randolph
Carter's estate. But the autopsy said that Aspinwall had died of shock.
Was it rage _alone_ which caused it? And some things in that story....

In a vast room hung with strangely figured arras and filled with
olibanum fumes, Etienne-Laurent de Marigny often sits listening
with vague sensations to the abnormal rhythm of that hieroglyphed,
coffin-shaped clock.

Cool Air

                          By H. P. LOVECRAFT

               _A tale of dark science, and the ghastly
              mystery that enveloped the Spanish doctor's
                attempts at artificial refrigeration._

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                      Weird Tales September 1939.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

You ask me to explain why I am afraid of a draft of cool air; why I
shiver more than others upon entering a cold room, and seem nauseated
and repelled when the chill of evening creeps through the heat of a
mild autumn day. There are those who say I respond to cold as others do
to a bad odor, and I am the last to deny the impression. What I will
do is to relate the most horrible circumstance I ever encountered,
and leave it to you to judge whether or not this forms a suitable
explanation of my peculiarity.

It is a mistake to fancy that horror is associated inextricably
with darkness, silence, and solitude. I found it in the glare of
midafternoon, in the clangor of a metropolis, and in the teeming midst
of a shabby and commonplace rooming-house with a prosaic landlady
and two stalwart men by my side. In the spring of 1923 I had secured
some dreary and unprofitable magazine work in the city of New York;
and being unable to pay any substantial rent, began drifting from one
cheap boarding establishment to another in search of a room which might
combine the qualities of decent cleanliness, endurable furnishings,
and very reasonable price. It soon developed that I had only a choice
between different evils, but after a time I came upon a house in West
Fourteenth Street which disgusted me much less than the others I had
sampled.

The place was a four-story mansion of brownstone, dating apparently
from the late forties, and fitted with woodwork and marble whose
stained and sullied splendor argued a descent from high levels of
tasteful opulence. In the rooms, large and lofty, and decorated with
impossible paper and ridiculously ornate stucco cornices, there
lingered a depressing mustiness and hint of obscure cookery; but the
floors were clean, the linen tolerably regular, and the hot water not
too often cold or turned off; so that I came to regard it as at least
a bearable place to hibernate until one might really live again. The
landlady, a slatternly, almost bearded Spanish woman named Herrero,
did not annoy me with gossip or with criticisms of the late-burning
electric light in my third floor front hall room; and my fellow-lodgers
were as quiet and uncommunicative as one might desire, being mostly
Spaniards a little above the coarsest and crudest grade. Only the din
of street-cars in the thoroughfare below proved a serious annoyance.

I had been there about three weeks when the first odd incident
occurred. One evening at about eight I heard a spattering on the floor
and became suddenly aware that I had been smelling the pungent odor of
ammonia for some time. Looking about, I saw that the ceiling was wet
and dripping; the soaking apparently proceeding from a corner on the
side toward the street. Anxious to stop the matter at its source, I
hastened to the basement to tell the landlady, and was assured by her
that the trouble would quickly be set right.

"Doctair Muñoz," she cried as she rushed upstairs ahead of me, "he have
speel hees chemicals. He ees too seeck for doctair heemself--seecker
and seecker all the time--but he weel not have no othair for help. He
ees vairy queer in hees seeckness--all day he take funnee-smelling
baths, and he cannot get excite or warm. All hees own housework he
do--hees leetle room are full of bottles and machines and he do not
work as doctair. But he was great once--my fathair in Barcelona have
hear of heem--and only joost now he feex a arm of the plumber that get
hurt of sudden. He nevair go out, only on roof, and my boy Esteban he
breeng heem hees food and laundry and mediceens and chemicals. My God,
the sal-ammoniac that man use for to keep heem cool!"

Mrs. Herrero disappeared up the staircase to the fourth floor, and I
returned to my room. The ammonia ceased to drip, and as I cleaned up
what had spilled and opened the window for air, I heard the landlady's
heavy footsteps above me. Doctor Muñoz I had never heard, save for
certain sounds as of some gasoline-driven mechanism; since his step was
soft and gentle. I wondered for a moment what the strange affliction
of this man might be, and whether his obstinate refusal of outside
aid were not the result of a rather baseless eccentricity. There is,
I reflected tritely, an infinite deal of pathos in the state of an
eminent person who has come down in the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

I might never have known Doctor Muñoz had it not been for the heart
attack that suddenly seized me one forenoon as I sat writing in my
room. Physicians had told me of the danger of those spells, and I knew
there was no time to be lost; so, remembering what the landlady had
said about the invalid's help of the injured workman, I dragged myself
upstairs and knocked feebly at the door above mine.

My knock was answered in good English by a curious voice some distance
to the right, asking my name and business; and these things being
stated, there came an opening of the door next to the one I had sought.

A rush of cool air greeted me; and though the day was one of the
hottest of late June, I shivered as I crossed the threshold into a
large apartment whose rich and tasteful decoration surprized me in
this nest of squalor and seediness. A folding couch now filled its
diurnal rôle of sofa, and the mahogany furniture, sumptuous hangings,
old paintings, and mellow bookshelves all bespoke a gentleman's study
rather than a boarding-house bedroom. I now saw that the hall room
above mine--the "leetle room" of bottles and machines which Mrs.
Herrero had mentioned--was merely the laboratory of the doctor; and
that his main living-quarters lay in the spacious adjoining room whose
convenient alcoves and large contiguous bathroom permitted him to hide
all dressers and obtrusively utilitarian devices. Doctor Muñoz, most
certainly, was a man of birth, cultivation, and discrimination.

The figure before me was short but exquisitely proportioned, and clad
in somewhat formal dress of perfect fit and cut. A high-bred face
of masterful though not arrogant expression was adorned by a short
iron-gray full beard, and an old-fashioned pince-nez shielded the full,
dark eyes and surmounted an aquiline nose which gave a Moorish touch to
a physiognomy otherwise dominantly Celt-Iberian. Thick, well-trimmed
hair that argued the punctual calls of a barber was parted gracefully
above a high forehead; and the whole picture was one of striking
intelligence and superior blood and breeding.

Nevertheless, as I saw Doctor Muñoz in that blast of cool air, I felt
a repugnance which nothing in his aspect could justify. Only his
lividly inclined complexion and coldness of touch could have afforded
a physical basis for this feeling, and even these things should have
been excusable considering the man's known invalidism. It might, too,
have been the singular cold that alienated me; for such chilliness was
abnormal on so hot a day, and the abnormal always excites aversion,
distrust, and fear.

But repugnance was soon forgotten in admiration, for the strange
physician's extreme skill at once became manifest despite the
ice-coldness and shakiness of his bloodless-looking hands. He clearly
understood my needs at a glance, and ministered to them with a master's
deftness; the while reassuring me in a finely modulated though oddly
hollow and timbreless voice that he was the bitterest of sworn
enemies to death, and had sunk his fortune and lost all his friends
in a lifetime of bizarre experiment devoted to its bafflement and
extirpation. Something of the benevolent fanatic seemed to reside in
him, and he rambled on almost garrulously as he sounded my chest and
mixed a suitable draft of drugs fetched from the smaller laboratory
room. Evidently he found the society of a well-born man a rare novelty
in this dingy environment, and was moved to unaccustomed speech as
memories of better days surged over him.

His voice, if queer, was at least soothing; and I could not even
perceive that he breathed as the fluent sentences rolled urbanely
out. He sought to distract my mind from my own seizure by speaking of
his theories and experiments; and I remember his tactfully consoling
me about my weak heart by insisting that will and consciousness are
stronger than organic life itself, so that if a bodily frame be
but originally healthy and carefully preserved, it may through a
scientific enhancement of these qualities retain a kind of nervous
animation despite the most serious impairments, defects, or even
absences in the battery of specific organs. He might, he half-jestingly
said, some day teach me to live--or at least to possess some kind
of conscious existence--without any heart at all! For his part, he
was afflicted with a complication of maladies requiring a very exact
regimen which included constant cold. Any marked rise in temperature
might, if prolonged, affect him fatally; and the frigidity of his
habitation--some fifty-five or fifty-six degrees Fahrenheit--was
maintained by an absorption system of ammonia cooling, the gasoline
engine whose pumps I had often heard in my room below.

Relieved of my seizure in a marvelously short while, I left the shivery
place a disciple and devotee of the gifted recluse. After that I paid
him frequent overcoated calls, listening while he told of secret
researches and almost ghastly results, and trembling a bit when I
examined the unconventional and astonishingly ancient volumes on his
shelves. I was eventually, I may add, almost cured of my disease for
all time by his skilful ministrations. It seems that he did not scorn
the incantations of the mediævalists, since he believed these cryptic
formulæ to contain rare psychological stimuli which might conceivably
have singular effects on the substance of a nervous system from which
organic pulsations had fled. I was touched by his account of the aged
Doctor Torres of Valencia, who had shared his earlier experiments
and nursed him through the great illness of eighteen years before,
whence his present disorders proceeded. No sooner had the venerable
practitioner saved his colleague than he himself succumbed to the
grim enemy he had fought. Perhaps the strain had been too great; for
Doctor Muñoz made it whisperingly clear--though not in detail--that the
methods of healing had been most extraordinary, involving scenes and
processes not welcomed by elderly and conservative Galens.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the weeks passed, I observed with regret that my new friend
was indeed slowly but unmistakably losing ground physically, as
Mrs. Herrero had suggested. The livid aspect of his countenance
was intensified, his voice became more hollow and indistinct, his
muscular motions were less perfectly coördinated, and his mind and
will displayed less resilience and initiative. Of this sad change
he seemed by no means unaware, and little by little his expression
and conversation both took on a gruesome irony which restored in me
something of the subtle repulsion I had originally felt.

He developed strange caprices, acquiring a fondness for exotic
spices and Egyptian incense until his room smelled like the vault
of a sepulchered Pharaoh in the Valley of Kings. At the same time,
his demands for cold air increased, and with my aid he amplified the
ammonia piping of his room and modified the pumps and feed of his
refrigerating machine until he could keep the temperature as low as
thirty-four or forty degrees, and finally even twenty-eight degrees;
the bathroom and laboratory, of course, being less chilled, in order
that water might not freeze, and that chemical processes might not
be impeded. The tenant adjoining him complained of the icy air from
around the connecting door; so I helped him fit heavy hangings to
obviate the difficulty. A kind of growing horror, of outré and morbid
cast, seemed to possess him. He talked of death incessantly, but
laughed hollowly when such things as burial or funeral arrangements
were gently suggested.

All in all, he became a disconcerting and even gruesome companion; yet
in my gratitude for his healing, I could not well abandon him to the
strangers around him, and was careful to dust his room and attend to
his needs each day, muffled in a heavy ulster which I bought especially
for the purpose. I likewise did much of his shopping, and gasped in
bafflement at some of the chemicals he ordered from druggists and
laboratory supply houses.

An increasing and unexplained atmosphere of panic seemed to rise around
his apartment. The whole house, as I have said, had a musty odor;
but the smell in his room was worse, in spite of all the spices and
incense, and the pungent chemicals of the now incessant baths which he
insisted on taking unaided. I perceived that it must be connected with
his ailment, and shuddered when I reflected on what that ailment might
be. Mrs. Herrero crossed herself when she looked at him, and gave him
up unreservedly to me; not even letting her son Esteban continue to
run errands for him. When I suggested other physicians, the sufferer
would fly into as much of a rage as he seemed to dare to entertain.
He evidently feared the physical effect of violent emotion, yet his
will and driving force waxed rather than waned, and he refused to be
confined to his bed. The lassitude of his earlier ill days gave place
to a return of his fiery purpose, so that he seemed about to hurl
defiance at the death-demon even as that ancient enemy seized him. The
pretense of eating, always curiously like a formality with him, he
virtually abandoned; and mental power alone appeared to keep him from
total collapse.

He acquired a habit of writing long documents of some sort, which he
carefully sealed and filed with injunctions that I transmit them after
his death to certain persons whom he named--for the most part lettered
East Indians, but including also a once celebrated French physician
now generally thought dead, and about whom the most inconceivable
things had been whispered. As it happened, I burned all these papers
undelivered and unopened. His aspect and voice became utterly
frightful, and his presence almost unbearable. One September day an
unexpected glimpse of him induced an epileptic fit in a man who had
come to repair his electric desk lamp; a fit for which he prescribed
effectively while keeping himself well out of sight. That man, oddly
enough, had been through the terrors of the great war without having
incurred any fright so thorough.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then, in the middle of October, the horror of horrors came with
stupefying suddenness. One night about eleven the pump of the
refrigerating machine broke down, so that within three hours the
process of ammonia cooling became impossible. Doctor Muñoz summoned me
by thumping on the floor, and I worked desperately to repair the injury
while my host cursed in a tone whose lifeless, rattling hollowness
surpassed description. My amateur efforts, however, proved of no use;
and when I had brought in a mechanic from a neighboring all-night
garage we learned that nothing could be done until morning, when a
new piston would have to be obtained. The moribund hermit's rage and
fear, swelling to grotesque proportions, seemed likely to shatter what
remained of his failing physique; and once a spasm caused him to clap
his hands to his eyes and rush into the bathroom. He groped his way
out with face tightly bandaged, and I never saw his eyes again.

[Illustration: "He groped his way out with face tightly bandaged, and I
never saw his eyes again."]

The frigidity of the apartment was now sensibly diminishing, and
at about five in the morning, the doctor retired to the bathroom,
commanding me to keep him supplied with all the ice I could obtain
at all-night drugstores and cafeterias. As I would return from my
sometimes discouraging trips and lay my spoils before the closed
bathroom door, I could hear a restless splashing within, and a thick
voice croaking out the order for "More--more!" At length a warm day
broke, and the shops opened one by one. I asked Esteban either to help
with the ice-fetching while I obtained the pump piston, or to order the
piston while I continued with the ice; but, instructed by his mother,
he absolutely refused.

Finally I hired a seedy-looking loafer whom I encountered on the corner
of Eighth Avenue to keep the patient supplied with ice from a little
shop where I introduced him, and applied myself diligently to the task
of finding a pump piston and engaging workmen competent to install it.
The task seemed interminable, and I raged almost as violently as the
hermit when I saw the hours slipping by in a breathless, foodless round
of vain telephoning, and a hectic quest from place to place, hither and
thither by subway and surface car.

About noon I encountered a suitable supply house far downtown, and at
approximately one-thirty that afternoon arrived at my boarding-place
with the necessary paraphernalia and two sturdy and intelligent
mechanics. I had done all I could, and hoped I was in time.

Black terror, however, had preceded me. The house was in utter turmoil,
and above the chatter of awed voices I heard a man praying in a deep
basso. Fiendish things were in the air, and lodgers told over the
beads of their rosaries as they caught the odor from beneath the
doctor's closed door. The lounger I had hired, it seems, had fled
screaming and mad-eyed not long after his second delivery of ice:
perhaps as a result of excessive curiosity. He could not, of course,
have locked the door behind him; yet it was now fastened, presumably
from the inside. There was no sound within save a nameless sort of
slow, thick dripping.

Briefly consulting with Mrs. Herrero and the workmen despite a fear
that gnawed my inmost soul, I advised the breaking down of the door;
but the landlady found a way to turn the key from the outside with some
wire device. We had previously opened the doors of all the other rooms
on that hall, and flung all the windows to the very top. Now, noses
protected by handkerchiefs, we tremblingly invaded the accursed south
room, which blazed with the warm sun of early afternoon.

A kind of dark, slimy trail led from the open bathroom door to the
hall door, and thence to the desk, where a terrible little pool had
accumulated. Something was scrawled there in a pencil in an awful,
blind hand on a piece of paper hideously smeared as though by the very
claws that traced the hurried last words. Then the trail led to the
couch and ended unutterably.

What was, or had been, on the couch I cannot and dare not say here. But
this is what I shiveringly puzzled out on the stickily smeared paper
before I drew a match and burned it to a crisp; what I puzzled out
in terror as the landlady and two mechanics rushed frantically from
that hellish place to babble their incoherent stories at the nearest
police station. The nauseous words seemed well-nigh incredible in that
yellow sunlight, with the clatter of cars and motor trucks ascending
clamorously from crowded Fourteenth Street, yet I confess that I
believed them then. Whether I believe them now I honestly do not know.
There are things about which it is better not to speculate, and all
that I can say is that I hate the smell of ammonia, and grow faint at a
draft of unusually cool air.

"The end," ran that noisome scrawl, "is here. No more ice--the man
looked and ran away. Warmer every minute, and the tissues can't last.
I fancy you know--what I said about the will and the nerves and the
preserved body after the organs ceased to work. It was good theory, but
couldn't keep up indefinitely. There was a gradual deterioration I had
not foreseen. Doctor Torres knew, but the shock killed him. He couldn't
stand what he had to do; he had to get me in a strange, dark place,
when he minded my letter and nursed me back. And the organs never would
work again. It had to be done my way--artificial preservation--_for you
see I died that time eighteen years ago_."

Transcriber's Note:

    Italic text has been marked by _underscores_, whilst bold text
    appears as =bold=. The following table of contents has been added
    for convenience:

      United Amateur Press Association:
        Exponent of Amateur Journalism                          4

      The United Amateur, January 1915
        Department of Public Criticism                          7

      The United Amateur, March 1915
        Department of Public Criticism                         10
        March                                                  14

      The United Amateur, May 1915
        Department of Public Criticism                         15

      The United Amateur, September 1915
        Department of Public Criticism                         21
        Little Journeys to the Homes of Prominent Amateurs     31

      The United Amateur, February 1916
        The Teuton's Battle-Song                               33

      The United Amateur, April 1916
        Department of Public Criticism                         35

      The United Amateur, June 1916
        Department of Public Criticism                         42
        The Poetry of the Month: Content                       49

      The United Amateur, August 1916
        Department of Public Criticism                         50

      The United Amateur, September 1916
        Department of Public Criticism                         54

      The United Amateur, November 1916
        The Alchemist                                          61

      The United Amateur, March 1917
        Department of Public Criticism                         65

      The United Amateur, May 1917
        Department of Public Criticism                         71

      The United Amateur, July 1917
        Ode for July Fourth, 1917                              80
        Department of Public Criticism                         81
        News Notes: To M. W. M.                                84

      The United Amateur, November 1917
        A Reminiscence of Dr. Samuel Johnson                   84
        Department of Public Criticism                         87
        Reports of Officers: President's Message               90

      The United Amateur, January 1918
        Reports of Officers: President's Message               91

      The United Amateur, March 1918
        Reports of Officers: President's Message               92

      The United Amateur, May 1918
        Sunset                                                 92
        Department of Public Criticism                         93
        Reports of Officers: President's Message               98

      The United Amateur, June 1918
        Astrophobos                                            99

      The United Amateur, July 1918
        At the Root                                           100
        Reports of Officers: President's Message              101

      The United Amateur, November 1918
        Department of Literature: The Literature of Rome      102
        To Alan Seeger                                        106

      The United Amateur, January 1919
        Theodore Roosevelt                                    107

      The United Amateur, March 1919
        A Note on Howard P. Lovecraft's Verse                 108
        Official Reports: Department of Public Criticism      109

      The United Amateur, May 1919
        Helene Hoffman Cole--Litterateur                      113

      The United Amateur, July 1919
        Americanism                                           114

      The United Amateur, November 1919
        The White Ship                                        115
        To Mistress Sophia Simple, Queen of the Cinema        118

      The United Amateur, January 1920
        Literary Composition                                  119

      The United Amateur, May 1920
        For What Does the United Stand?                       123

      The United Amateur, September 1920
        Poetry and the Gods                                   124

      The United Amateur, November 1920
        Nyarlathotep                                          128
        Editorial                                             129
        Official Organ Fund                                   130

      The United Amateur, January 1921
        Official Organ Fund                                   130

      The United Amateur, March 1921
        Winifred Virginia Jackson: A "Different" Poetess      130
        Ex Oblivione                                          134
        Official Organ Fund                                   134

      The United Amateur, September 1921
        The United Amateur                                    135
        Editorial                                             136

      The United Amateur, November 1921
        The United Amateur                                    138
        Official Organ Fund                                   138

      The United Amateur, January 1922
        The United Amateur                                    139
        Editorial                                             139

      The United Amateur, March 1922
        Official Organ Fund                                   140

      The United Amateur, May 1922
        Official Organ Fund                                   140
        At the Home of Poe                                    140

                THE
           UNITED AMATEUR

           SEPTEMBER 1915

 [Illustration: HOWARD P. LOVECRAFT
 First Vice-President U. A. P. A.]

United Amateur Press Association

EXPONENT OF AMATEUR JOURNALISM

ITS OBJECT

The desire to write for publication is one which inheres strongly in
every human breast. From the proficient college graduate, storming the
gates of the high-grade literary magazines, to the raw schoolboy, vainly
endeavoring to place his first crude compositions in the local
newspapers, the whole intelligent public are today seeking expression
through the printed page, and yearning to behold their thoughts and
ideals permanently crystallized in the magic medium of type. But while a
few persons of exceptional talent manage eventually to gain a foothold
in the professional world of letters rising to celebrity through the
wide diffusion of their art, ideals, or opinions; the vast majority,
unless aided in their education by certain especial advantages, are
doomed to confine their expression to the necessarily restricted sphere
of ordinary conversation. To supply these especial educational
advantages which may enable the general public to achieve the
distinction of print, and which may prevent the talented but unknown
author from remaining forever in obscurity, has arisen that largest and
foremost of societies for literary education =The United Amateur Press
Association=.

ITS ORIGIN

Amateur journalism, or the composition and circulation of small,
privately printed magazines, is an instructive diversion which has
existed in the United States for over half a century. In the decade of
1866-1876 this practice first became an organized institution; a
short-lived society of amateur journalists, including the now famous
publisher, Charles Scribner, having existed from 1869 to 1874. In 1876 a
more lasting society was formed, which exists to this day as an exponent
of light dilettantism. Not until 1895, however, was amateur journalism
established as a serious branch of educational endeavour. On September
2nd of that year, Mr. William H. Greenfield, a gifted professional
author, of Philadelphia, founded =The United Amateur Press Association=,
which has grown to be the leader of its kind, and the representative of
amateur journalism in its best phases throughout the English-speaking
world.

ITS NATURE

In many respects the word "amateur" fails to do full credit to amateur
journalism and the association which best represents it. To some minds
the term conveys an idea of crudity and immaturity, yet the =United= can
boast of members and publications whose polish and scholarship are
well-nigh impeccable. In considering the adjective "amateur" as applied
to the press association, we must adhere to the more basic
interpretation, regarding the word as indicating the non-mercenary
nature of the membership. Our amateurs write purely for love of their
art, without the stultifying influence of commercialism. Many of them
are prominent professional authors in the outside world, but their
professionalism never creeps into their association work. The atmosphere
is wholly fraternal, and courtesy takes the place of currency.

The real essential of amateur journalism and =The United Amateur Press
Association= is the amateur paper or magazine, which somewhat resembles
the average high-school or college publication. These journals, varying
greatly in size and character, are issued by various members at their
own expense, and contain, besides the literary work of their several
editors or publishers, contributions from all the many members who do
not publish papers of their own. Their columns are open to every person
in the association, and it may be said with justice that no one will
find it impossible to secure the publication of any literary composition
of reasonable brevity. The papers thus published are sent free to all
our many members, who constitute a select and highly appreciative
reading public. Since each member receives the published work of every
other member, many active and brilliant minds are brought into close
contact, and questions of every sort, literary, historical, and
scientific, are debated both in the press and in personal
correspondence. The correspondence of members is one of the most
valuable features of the =United=, for through this medium a great
intellectual stimulus, friendly and informal in nature, is afforded.
Congenial members are in this way brought together in a lettered
companionship, which often grows into life-long friendship, while
persons of opposed ideas may mutually gain much breadth of mind by
hearing the other side of their respective opinions discussed in a
genial manner. In short, the =United= offers an exceptionally
well-proportioned mixture of instruction and fraternal cheer. There are
no limits of age, sex, education, position, or locality in this most
complete of democracies. Boys and girls of twelve and men and women of
sixty, parents and their sons and daughters, college professors and
grammar-school pupils, aristocrats and intelligent labourers, Easterners
and Westerners, are here given equal advantages, those of greater
education helping their cruder brethren until the common fund of culture
is as nearly level as it can be in any human organization. Members are
classified according to age; "A" meaning under sixteen, "B" from 16 to
21, and "C" over 21. The advantages offered to those of limited
acquirements are immense, many persons having gained practically all
their literary polish through membership in the =United=. A much
cherished goal is professional authorship or editorship, and numerous
indeed are the =United= members who have now become recognized authors,
poets, editors, and publishers. True, though trite, is the saying that
amateur journalism is an actual training school for professional
journalism.

ITS PUBLISHING ACTIVITIES

Members of the =United= may or may not publish little papers of their
own. This is a matter of choice, for there are always enough journals to
print the work of the non-publishing members. Youths who possess
printing presses will find publishing an immense but inexpensive
pleasure, whilst other publishers may have their printing done at very
reasonable rates by those who do own presses. The favorite size for
amateur papers is 5◊7 inches, which can be printed at 55 or 60 cents per
page, each page containing about 250 words. Thus a four-page issue
containing 1000 words can be published for less than $2.50, if
arrangements are made, as is often the case, for its free mailing with
any other paper. Certain of the more pretentious journals affect the
7◊10 size, which costs about $1.60 for each page of 700 words. These
figures allow for 250 copies, the most usual number to be mailed. Mr.
E. E. Ericson of Elroy, Wisconsin, is our Official Printer, and his work
is all that the most fastidious could demand. Other printers may be
found amongst the young men who print their own papers. In many cases
they can quote very satisfactory prices. Two or more members may issue a
paper co-operatively, the individual expense then being very slight.

ITS CONTRIBUTED LITERATURE

The =United= welcomes all literary contributions; poems, stories, and
essays, which the various members may submit. However, contribution is
by no means compulsory, and in case a member finds himself too busy for
activity, he may merely enjoy the free papers which reach him, without
taxing himself with literary labour. For those anxious to contribute,
every facility is provided. In some cases negotiations are made directly
between publisher and contributor, but the majority are accommodated by
the two Manuscript Bureaus, Eastern and Western, which receive
contributions in any quantity from the non-publishing members, and are
drawn upon for material by those who issue papers. These bureaus
practically guarantee on the one hand to find a place for each member's
manuscript, and on the other hand to keep each publisher well supplied
with matter for his journal.

ITS CRITICAL DEPARTMENTS

The two critical departments of the =United= are at present the most
substantial of its various educational advantages. The Department of
Private Criticism is composed exclusively of highly cultured members,
usually professors or teachers of English, who practically mould the
taste of the whole association, receiving and revising before
publication the work of all who choose to submit it to them. The service
furnished free by this department is in every way equal to that for
which professional critical bureaus charge about two dollars.
Manuscripts are carefully corrected and criticised in every detail, and
authors are given comprehensive advice designed to elevate their taste,
style, and grammar. Many a crude but naturally gifted writer has been
developed to polished fluency and set on the road to professional
authorship through the =United's= Department of Private Criticism.

The Department of Public Criticism reviews thoroughly and impartially
the various printed papers and their contents, offering precepts and
suggestions for improvement. Its reports are printed in the official
organ of the association, and serve as a record of our literary
achievement.

ITS LITERARY AWARDS

To encourage excellence amongst the members of the =United=, annual
honours or "laureateships" are awarded the authors of the best poems,
stories, essays, or editorials. Participation in these competitions is
not compulsory, since they apply only to pieces which have been
especially "entered for laureateship." The entries are judged not by the
members of the association, but by highly distinguished litterateurs of
the professional world, selected particularly for the occasion. Our
latest innovation is a laureateship for the best home-printed paper,
which will excite keen rivalry among our younger members, and bring out
some careful specimens of the typographical art. Besides the
laureateships there are other honours and prizes awarded by individual
publishers within the =United=, many of the amateur journals offering
excellent books for the best stories, reviews, or reports submitted to
them.

ITS OFFICIAL ORGAN

The association, as a whole, publishes a voluminous 7◊10 monthly
magazine called =The United Amateur=, which serves as the official
organ. In this magazine may be found the complete revised list of
members, the reports of officers and committees, the ample reviews
issued by the Department of Public Criticism, a selection of the best
contemporary amateur literature, together with the latest news of
amateur journalists and their local clubs from all over the Anglo-Saxon
world. =The United Amateur= is published by an annually elected Official
Editor, and printed by the Official Publisher. It is sent free to all
members of the association.

ITS GOVERNMENT

=The United Amateur Press Association= is governed by a board of
officers elected by popular vote. The elections take place at the annual
conventions, where amateurs from all sections meet and fraternize. Those
who attend vote in person, whilst all others send in proxy ballots.
There is much friendly rivalry between cities concerning the selection
of the convention seat each year. The principal elective officers of the
=United= are the President, two Vice-Presidents, the Treasurer, the
Official Editor and the three members of the Board of Directors. There
are also a Historian, a Laureate Recorder, and two Manuscript Managers.
Appointed by the President are the members of the two Departments of
Criticism, the Supervisor of Amendments, the Official Publisher, and the
Secretary of the association. All save Secretary and Official Publisher,
serve without remuneration. The basic law of the =United= comprises an
excellent Constitution and By-Laws.

ITS LOCAL CLUBS

The =United= encourages the formation of local literary or press clubs
in cities or towns containing several members. These clubs generally
publish papers, and hold meetings wherein the pleasures of literature
are enlivened by those of the society. The most desirable form of club
activity is that in which a high-school instructor forms a literary
society of the more enthusiastic members of his class.

ITS PLACE IN EDUCATION

During the past two years, as it has approached and passed its twentieth
birthday, the =United= has been endeavoring more strongly than ever to
find and occupy its true place amongst the many and varied phases of
education. That it discharges an unique function in literary culture is
certain, and its members have of late been trying very actively to
establish and define its relation to the high-school and the university.
Mr. Maurice Winter Moe, Instructor of English at the Appleton High
School, Appleton, Wisconsin, and one of our very ablest members, took
the first decisive step by organizing his pupils into an amateur press
club, using the =United= to supplement his regular class-room work. The
scholars were delighted, and many have acquired a love of good
literature which will never leave them. Three or four, in particular,
have become prominent in the affairs of the =United=. After
demonstrating the success of his innovation, Mr. Moe described it in
=The English Journal=, his article arousing much interest in educational
circles, and being widely reprinted by other papers. In November, 1914,
Mr. Moe addressed an assemblage of English teachers in Chicago, and
there created so much enthusiasm for the =United=, that scores of
instructors have subsequently joined our ranks, many of them forming
school clubs on the model of the original club at Appleton. Here, then,
is one definite destiny for our association: to assist the teaching of
advanced English in the high-school. We are especially eager for
high-school material, teachers and pupils alike.

But there still remain a numerous class, who, though not connected with
school or college, have none the less sincere literary aspirations. At
present they are benefited immensely through mental contact with our
more polished members, yet for the future we plan still greater aids for
their development, by the creation of a systematic "Department of
Instruction," which will, if successfully established, amount
practically to a free correspondence school, and an "Authors' Placing
Bureau," which will help amateurs in entering the professional field.
Our prime endeavor is at present to secure members of high mental and
scholastic quality, in order that the =United= may be strengthened for
its increasing responsibility. Professors, teachers, clergymen, and
authors have already responded in gratifying numbers to our wholly
altruistic plea for their presence among us. The reason for the
=United's= success as an educational factor seems to lie principally in
the splendid loyalty and enthusiasm which all the members somehow
acquire upon joining. Every individual is alert for the welfare of the
association, and its activities form the subject of many of the current
essays and editorials. The ceaseless writing in which most of the
members indulge is in itself an aid to fluency, while the mutual
examples and criticisms help on still further the pleasantly unconscious
acquisition of a good literary style. When regular courses of
instruction shall have been superimposed upon these things, the
association can indeed afford to claim a place of honour in the world of
education.

ITS ENTRANCE CONDITIONS

The only requirement for admission to the =United= is earnest literary
aspiration. Any member will furnish the candidate for admission with an
application blank, signed in recommendation. This application, filled
out and forwarded to the Secretary of the association with the sum of
fifty cents as dues for the first year, and accompanied by a
"credential," or sample of the candidate's original literary work, will
be acted upon with due consideration by the proper official. No
candidate of real sincerity will be denied admittance, and the applicant
will generally be soon rewarded by his certificate of membership, signed
by the President and Secretary. Papers, letters, and postal cards of
welcome will almost immediately pour in upon him, and he will in due
time behold his credential in print. (Unless it be something already
printed.) Once a member, his dues will be one dollar yearly, and if he
should ever leave the =United=, later desiring to join again, his
reinstatement fee will be one dollar.

ITS REPRESENTATIVES

=The United Amateur Press Association= is anything but local in its
personnel. Its active American membership extends from Boston to Los
Angeles, and from Milwaukee to Tampa, thus bringing all sections in
contact, and representing every phase of American thought. Its English
membership extends as far north as Newcastle-on-Tyne. Typical papers are
published in England, California, Kansas, Wisconsin, Ohio, Illinois,
Alabama, Mississippi, North Carolina, District of Columbia, New York,
and Rhode Island.

In writing for entrance blanks or for further information concerning the
=United=, the applicant may address any one of the following officers,
who will gladly give details, and samples of amateur papers: Leo
Fritter, President, 503 Central National Bank Bldg., Columbus, Ohio;
H. P. Lovecraft, Vice-President, 598 Angell St., Providence, R. I.; Mrs.
J. W. Renshaw, Second Vice-President, Coffeeville, Miss.; William J.
Dowdell, Secretary, 2428 East 66th St., Cleveland, Ohio; or Edward F.
Daas, Official Editor, 1717 Cherry St., Milwaukee, Wis. Professional
authors interested in our work are recommended to communicate with the
Second Vice-President, while English teachers may derive expert
information from Maurice W. Moe, 658 Atlantic St., Appleton, Wis. Youths
who possess printing-presses are referred to the Secretary, who is
himself a young typographer.

ITS PROVINCE SUMMARIZED

    =If you are= a student of elementary English desirous of attaining
    literary polish in an enjoyable manner,

    =If you are= an ordinary citizen, burning with the ambition to
    become an author,

    =If you are= a solitary individual wishing for a better chance to
    express yourself,

    =If you own= a printing-press and would like to learn how to issue a
    high-grade paper,

    =If you are= a mature person eager to make up for a youthful lack of
    culture,

    =If you are= a professor or teacher seeking a new method of
    interesting your English class, or

    =If you are= an author or person of ripe scholarship, anxious to aid
    your cruder brothers on their way, then

    YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO BECOME A MEMBER OF THE UNITED AMATEUR
    PRESS ASSOCIATION.

                                                  H. P. LOVECRAFT,
                                                       Vice-President.

                        THE UNITED AMATEUR

 OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE UNITED AMATEUR PRESS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA

 VOLUME XIV       GEORGETOWN, ILL., JANUARY, 1915.        NUMBER 3

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC CRITICISM

THE BADGER for January is the first number of a strikingly meritorious
and serious paper published by George S. Schilling. We here behold none
of the frivolity which spoils the writings of those who view amateur
journalism merely as a passing amusement. The Badger shows evidence of
careful and tasteful editorship, combined with a commendable artistic
sense in choice of paper and cover.

The leading article, an essay on the minimum wage, is from the pen of
the editor, and shows both literary ability and a sound knowledge of
economics. "Sister to the Ox", by A. W. Ashby, is an excellent short
story whose strength is rather in its moral than in its plot. The
editorials are certainly not lacking in force, and seem well calculated
to stir the average amateur from his torpor of triteness and inanity.

THE INSPIRATION for November is an "Official Number", containing the
work of none but titled authors. Rheinhart Kleiner contributes the
single piece of verse, a smooth and pleasing lyric entitled "Love
Again", which is not unlike his previous poem, "Love, Come Again". As an
amatory poet, Mr. Kleiner shows much delicacy of sentiment, refinement
of language, and appreciation of metrical values; his efforts in this
direction entitle him to a high place among amateur bards.

One of the truly notable prose features of the magazine is Walter John
Held's delightful sketch of Joaquin Miller's home and haunts. This
artistic picture of Californian scenery exhibits a real comprehension of
the beauties of Nature, and stirs to an unusual degree the imagination
of the reader. Mr. Held's prose possesses a fluency and grace that bring
it close to the professional quality, and its few faults are far less
considerable than might be expected from the pen of a young author.
However, we must remark some rather awkward examples of grammatical
construction. The correct plural of "eucalyptus" is "eucalypti", without
any final "s", the name being treated as a Latin noun of the second
declension. "Slowly and dignified--it pursues its way" is hardly a
permissible clause; the adjective "dignified" must be exchanged for an
adverb. Perhaps Mr. Held sought to employ poetical enallage, but even
so, the adjective does not correspond with "slowly"; besides, the use of
enallage in prose is at best highly questionable. "This free and rank
flowers and brush" is another bad clause. But it is not well to dissect
the sketch too minutely. A youth of Mr. Held's ability needs only time
and continued practice to raise him to the highest rank in prose
composition.

INVICTUS for January, the first number of Mr. Paul J. Campbell's new
individual paper, is one of those rare journals concerning which it is
almost impossible to speak without enthusiasm. Not one of its twenty-six
pages fails to delight us. Foremost in merit, and most aptly suited to
Mr. Campbell's particular type of genius, are the three inspiring
essays, "The Impost of the Future", "The Sublime Ideal", and "Whom God
Hath Put Asunder". Therein appears to great advantage the keen reasoning
and sound materialistic philosophy of the author. "The Sublime Ideal" is
especially absorbing, tracing as it does the expansion of the human mind
from a state of the narrowest and most violent bigotry to its present
moderate breadth.

The three pieces of verse, "Inspiration", "The Larger Life", and "Down
in Mexico", are all of smooth construction and musical metre, though
not exhibiting their author's powers as well as his essays. "Down in
Mexico", a virile poem in Kipling's style, is unquestionably the best of
the three.

Mr. Campbell's comments on amateur affairs are well-written and
entertaining, especially his reminiscent article entitled "After Seven
Years".

OUTWARD BOUND for January is an excellent journal edited by George
William Stokes of Newcastle-on-Tyne, England. It is gratifying to behold
such a paper as this, one of the links between America and the parent
country which the United is helping to forge.

Herbert B. Darrow opens the issue with a short story entitled "A
Lesson". The tale is of conventional pattern, containing a sound though
not strikingly original moral. The language is generally good, except in
one sentence where the author speaks of "the vehicles in the street and
buildings about him". Surely he does not mean that the vehicles were in
the buildings as well as in the street. The use of the definite article
before the word "buildings" would do much toward dispelling the
ambiguous effect.

"The Haunted Forest", a poem by J. H. Fowler, is almost Poe-like in its
grimly fantastic quality. We can excuse rather indefinite metre when we
consider the admirably created atmosphere, the weird harmony of the
lines, the judicious use of alliteration, and the apt selection of
words. "Bird-shunned", as applied to the thickets of the forest, is a
particularly graphic epithet. Mr. Fowler is to be congratulated upon his
glowing imagination and poetical powers.

"A Bit o' Purple Heather", by Edna von der Heide, is a delightful piece
of verse in modified Scottish dialect, which well justifies the
dedication of the magazine to this poetess.

Mr. Stokes' editorial, headed "Ships that Pass", sustains the nautical
atmosphere of his periodical. We wish he had given his thoughts a larger
space for expression.

THE PIPER for December comes as a surprise to those who have known
Rheinhart Kleiner only as a master of metre, for he is here displayed as
the possessor of a pure and vigorous prose style as well. In this, the
opening number of his individual journal, Mr. Kleiner provides us with a
pleasing variety of literary matter; two serious poems, two rhymes of
lighter character, an essay on the inevitable topic of Consolidation,
and a brilliant collection of short editorials and criticisms.

"A Carnation", which begins the issue, is an exquisite piece of
sentiment couched in faultless verse. The odd measure of the poem is one
peculiarly suited to the author's delicate type of genius; an iambic
line of only three feet. The other lyric, "Heart, Do Not Wake", is
likewise of excellent quality, though the succession of "again" and
"pain" in the first line might suggest to some ears an unnecessary
internal rhyme.

"The Rhyme of the Hapless Poet" is very clever, and can be truly
appreciated by every author of printed matter. Perhaps the misfortune of
which the poet complains is the cause of the extra syllable in the first
line of the second stanza; we hope that the following is what Mr.
Kleiner intended:

    "I wrote a poem, 'twas a prize".

Otherwise we are forced to believe that he pronounces "poem" as a
monosyllable, "pome". "My Favorite Amateur" is a good specimen of light,
imitative verse.

The article on Consolidation is cynical in tone, but eminently sensible.
It is only too true that our greatest intellectual stimulus is found in
controversy and antagonism; we are really quite bellicose in our
instincts, despite the utterances of the peace advocates.

Mr. Kleiner concludes his journal with a sparkling epigram on a rather
obvious though regrettable tendency in amateur circles.

The Piper is in general a paper of satisfying merit, to whose future
issues we shall look forward with eagerness.

THE RECRUITING FEMININE for 1914-1915 is a publication of unusual worth.
"The Rose Supreme," by Coralie Austin, is a delicate little poem in
which we regret the presence of one inexcusably bad rhyme. To rhyme the
words "rose" and "unclosed" is to exceed the utmost limits of poetic
license. It is true that considerable variations in vowel sounds have
been permitted; "come" makes, or at least used to make, an allowable
rhyme with "home", "clock" with "look", or "grass" with "place"; but a
final consonant attached to one of two otherwise rhyming syllables
positively destroys the rhyme.

Mrs. Myra Cole's essay on "The Little Things of Life" is well written
and instructive.

"The Dirge of the Great Atlantic", by Anne Vyne Tillery Renshaw, is a
grim and moving bit of verse, cast in the same primitively stirring
metre which this author used in her professionally published poem, "The
Chant of Iron". Mrs. Renshaw possesses an enviable power to reach the
emotions through the medium of written words.

"Two Octobers--A Contrast", by Eloise N. Griffith, is a meritorious
sketch ending with the usual appeal for the cessation of the European
war. We fear that the author cannot quite realize the ambitious
passions, essential ingredients of human nature, which render necessary
a final decision.

Miss Edna von der Heide, in an able article, rallies to the defense of
Mr. W. E. Griffin's now famous "Favorite Pastime". The Modern Lothario
is fortunate in having so competent and experienced a champion. However,
we cannot wholly endorse the sentiments of these excellent writers. The
statement that "all amateur journalists are flirts, more or less", is a
base and unwarranted libel which we are prepared completely to refute.

"The Audience", by Mrs. Florence Shepphird, is a masterly defense of
those inactive amateurs whom we are all too prone to consider as
delinquent. It is indeed true that authors would be useless were it not
for some sort of a reading public.

TOLEDO AMATEUR for December is a wholesome juvenile product. The
typography still leaves something to be desired, but the evidences of
care are everywhere visible, and we may reasonably expect to see it
improve from month to month, into one of the leading amateur papers.
Credentials form the keynote of the current issue, and a very promising
assortment of recruits are here introduced to the members of the United.
Miss Sandborn, who is fortunate enough to be one of Mr. Moe's pupils at
Appleton, contributes an interesting school anecdote, narrated in simple
fashion. Miss Thie gives information concerning the "Campfire Girls".
Some new members of adult years are also represented in this number. Mr.
Jenkins shows an admirable command of light prose, and will undoubtedly
prove one of the United's most entertaining writers. Misses Kline and
McGeoch both exhibit marked poetical tendencies in prose, the latter
writer having something of Mr. Fritter's facility in the use of
metaphor. Mr. Porter's editorials are refreshingly naive and unaffected.
His grammar is generally good, except in the one sentence where he
speaks of the Toledo Times. He should say, "the newspaper which has
given me much experience, and to whose publishers I owe a great deal of
experience gained."

THE UNITED OFFICIAL QUARTERLY for November marks the beginning of a
laudable enterprise on the part of the official board. The magazine is
of artistic appearance in cover, paper, and typography alike, while the
contents show considerable care in preparation.

Ira A. Cole's essay on "The Gods of Our Fathers" is the leading feature
and, though not of perfect perspicuity nor faultless unity, is none the
less noteworthy as a sincere expression of Pantheism. Mr. Cole keenly
feels the incongruity of our devotion to Semitic theological ideals,
when as a matter of fact we are descended from Aryan polytheists, and
his personification of the Grecian deities in the men of today is a
pleasing and ingenious conception. We are inclined to wonder whether the
author or the printer is to blame for rendering the poet Hesiod's name
as "Hesoid".

The metric art is represented by three contributions. Paul J. Campbell's
lines on "The Heritage of Life" are smooth in construction and proper in
sentiment, though they are far from showing their author at his best.
Mr. Campbell is a supreme master of the philosophical essay and of
pointed, satirical prose, being a very "Junius" in bold, biting
invective; but is placed at something of a disadvantage in the domain of
conventional poetry. Rheinhart Kleiner and ourselves revel in heroic
couplets of widely differing nature. Our own masterpiece is in full
Queen Anne style with carefully balanced lines and strictly measured
quantities. We have succeeded in producing eighteen lines without a
single original sentiment or truly poetical image. Rev. Mr. Pyke, the
object of the verses, deserves a better encomiast. Mr. Kleiner, on the
other hand, uses an heroic metre of that softened type which was
evolved at the close of the eighteenth century from the disruption of
the more formal style. In this sort of verse the stiff, classic
expressions are discarded, and the sense frequently overflows from
couplet to couplet, giving the romantic poet a greater latitude for
expression than was possible in the old models. "Vacation" is not
distinguished by any strikingly novel idea, but is in general a very
clever piece of light work. The only substantial defect is in the eighth
line, where the word "resort" is so placed, that the accent must fall
wrongfully upon the first syllable.

Leo Fritter's article on criticism is timely and sensible. As he justly
contends, some authorized amateur critics deal far too roughly with the
half-formed products of the young author, while most unofficial and
inexperienced reviewers fairly run mad with promiscuous condemnation.
The fancied brilliancy of the critic is always greatest when he censures
most, so that the temptations of the tribe are many. We are at best but
literary parasites, and need now and then just such a restraining word
as our counter-critic gives us. Mr. Fritter's style is here, as usual,
highly ornamented with metaphor. One slight defect strikes the
fastidious eye, but since split infinitives are becoming so common in
these days, we shall attend the author's plea for gentleness, and remain
silent.

                                                  H. P. LOVECRAFT,
                             Chairman, Department of Public Criticism.

 THE UNITED AMATEUR    MARCH 1915

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC CRITICISM

THE BLARNEY STONE for November-December is dedicated to its contributors
and wholly given over to their work. "Did You Ever Go A-Fishin'?," by
Olive G. Owen, is a vivid poetical portrayal of that peculiar attraction
which the angler's art exerts on its devotees. While the whole is of
high and pleasing quality, exception must be taken to the rhyming of
"low" with itself at the very beginning of the poem. It may be that the
second "low" is a misprint for "slow", yet even in that case, the rhyme
is scarcely allowable, since the dominant rhyming sound would still be
"low". Miss Edna von der Heide, in "The Christmas of Delsato's Maria",
tells how an Italian thief utilized his questionable art to replace a
loss in his family. "To General Villa" is a peculiar piece of verse
written last summer for the purpose of defying those who had charged its
author with pedantry and pomposity. It has suffered somewhat at the
hands of the printer; "Intrepido" being spelled "Intrepedo", and the
word "own" being dropped from the clause "your own name can't write" in
the third line of the second stanza. Also, the first of the Spanish
double exclamation marks around the oath "Santa Maria" is right side up
instead of inverted according to Castilian custom. Having been hastily
written, the piece is wholly without merit. "Senor", in the second line
of the third stanza is placed so that the accent must fall erroneously
on the first syllable. The changes of time and revolutions have rendered
the last stanza sadly out of date.

The issue is concluded with a beautiful editorial on "The Service With
Love", wherein is described the ideal spirit of brotherhood which should
pervade amateur journalism. We regret the two blank pages at the back of
the magazine, and wish that some talented Blarney had seen fit to adorn
them with his work.

THE BROOKLYNITE for January is of unusual merit, fairly teeming with
features of a well-written and substantial character.

The short story by Mrs. Carson is developed with admirable simplicity
and ease; the plot not too strained, and the moral not too pragmatically
forced upon the reader. The conversation, always a difficult point with
amateur authors, is surprisingly natural.

Mrs. Adams' essay on ghosts displays considerable literary knowledge,
though the anecdote at the end is rather ancient for use today. We last
heard it about ten years ago, with a Scotchman instead of a negro
preacher as the narrator, and with the word "miracle" instead of
"phenomena" as the subject.

Mr. Goodwin's "Cinigrams" are delightful, and we expect soon to hear the
author heralded as the Martial of amateur journalism. "Ford, Do Not
Shake", Mr. Goodwin's parody on Kleiner's "Heart, Do Not Wake", is
actually side-splitting. The metre is handled to perfection, and the
humor is extremely clever.

"Consolidation", by George Julian Houtain, is a fair example of the
manner in which some of the less dignified National politicians try to
cast silly aspersions on the United. The elaborately sarcastic phrase:
"United boys and girls", seems to please its author, since he uses it
twice. There is unconscious irony in the spectacle of a National man,
once a member of the notorious old Gotham ring, preaching virtuously
against the "unenviable record" of the United.

Mr. Stoddard's brief essay, composed at a meeting of the Blue Pencil
Club, is excellent, and his concluding quatrain regular and melodious.
We wish, however, that he would give us some more of the serious fiction
that he can write so splendidly, and which used several years ago to
appear in the amateur press.

"Music Moods", by Charles D. Isaacson, is an emotional sketch of great
power and delicate artistry. Mr. Isaacson has an active imagination and
a literary ability which makes his readers see very vividly the images
he creates.

Mrs. Houtain's poem shows great but as yet undeveloped talent. The
repeated use of the expletive "do" in such phrases as "I do sigh", or "I
pray and do pine", mars the verse somewhat. As Pope remarked and
humorously illustrated in his Essay on Criticism:

    "Expletives their feeble aid DO join."

Mr. Ayres' jocose epic is clever and tuneful. The climax, or rather
anticlimax, comes quite effectively.

Mr. Adams, in his brilliant verses entitled "Gentlemen, Please Desist",
exposes in a masterly way the fatuity of our loud-mouthed peace workers.
Miss Silverman's lines on the same subject are very good, but scarcely
equal in keenness of wit. It is all very well to "keep industry
booming", but industry cannot take the place of military efficiency in
protecting a nation against foreign aggression.

As a whole, the January Brooklynite is the best number we have yet seen.

THE COYOTE for March is not a revival of Ex-President Brechler's
well-known amateur journal of that name, but a semi-professional leaflet
edited by Mr. William T. Harrington, a rather new recruit. The leading
feature is a sensational short story by the editor, entitled "What
Gambling Did". In this tale, Mr. Harrington exhibits at least a strong
ambition to write, and such energy, if well directed, may eventually
make of him one of our leading authors of fiction. Just now, however, we
must protest against his taste in subject and technique. His models are
obviously not of the classical order, and his ideas of probability are
far from unexceptionable. In developing the power of narration, it is
generally best, as one of our leading amateurs lately reiterated, to
discard the thought of elaborate plots and thrilling climaxes, and to
begin instead with the plain and simple description of actual incidents
with which the author is familiar. Likewise, the young author may avoid
improbability by composing his earliest efforts in the first person. He
knows what he himself would do in certain circumstances, but he does not
always know very exactly what some others might do in similar cases.
Meanwhile, above all things he should read classic fiction, abstaining
entirely from "Wild West Weeklies" and the like. Mr. Harrington has a
taste for excitement, and would probably thrive on Scott, Cooper, or
Poe. Let him read the Leather Stocking Tales if he loves pioneers and
frontier life. Not until after he has acquired a familiarity with the
methods of the best authors, and refined his imagination by a perusal of
their works, should he make attempts at writing outside his own
experience. He will then be able to produce work of a quality which
would surprise him now.

We are sorry to note that the Coyote's editorial columns are occupied by
a mere condensed copy of the United's standard recruiting circular. This
space might have been filled much more profitably with brief original
comments by the editor on the numerous exchanges which are listed in
another part of his paper. The paid advertising and subscription price
are not to be commended. Such things have no place in a truly amateur
paper. But continued membership in the United will doubtless fill Mr.
Harrington with the genuine amateur spirit, and cause The Coyote to
become a worthy successor to its older namesake.

DOWDELL'S BEARCAT for October is a modest but very promising little
paper, mostly composed of amateur notes and brief reviews. The editor
has interest in his work, and fluency in his language, foundations on
which a more elaborate structure may some day be erected. One feature
open to criticism is Mr. Dowdell's sudden change in his editorial column
from the usual first person plural to the third person singular. It
would be better to save "The Old Bear" and his interesting chat, for a
separate column. The typography of Dowdell's Bearcat is not perfect, but
may be expected to improve from issue to issue.

THE EMISSARY for July is a National paper, but contains the work of
several United members. Of the publication itself we need not stop to
speak. Mr. Reading, though only eighteen years of age, is an editor and
printer of the highest grade, and has produced an issue which will be
long remembered in the amateur world.

"Ausonius, the Nature-Lover", by Edward H. Cole, is a pleasing and
judicious appreciation of a later Latin poet, showing how a bard of the
decaying Roman Empire approached in certain passages the spirit of
modern romanticism. Mr. Cole's translated extracts are beautifully
phrased, and his comment upon the subject well exhibits his wide and
careful scholarship. Articles of this quality are rarely found in the
amateur press, and it will be interesting to note what effect their more
frequent appearance would have upon the literary tone of the
associations.

"To Sappho", by Olive G. Owen, is a lyrical poem of much merit, yet
having a defective line. Why, we wonder, did the author see fit to leave
two necessary syllables out of the third line of the opening verse?

"Lamb o' Mine", by Dora M. Hepner, is probably the most attractive bit
of verse in the magazine. The negro dialect is inimitable, and the
consoling spirit of the old black "mammy" fairly radiates from the
lines. Metrically, the piece is faultless, and we wish its author were a
more frequent contributor to the amateur journals.

Miss von der Heide's two poems, "The Mill Mother", and "Greeting",
express admirably the sentiments of pathos and natural beauty,
respectively. Personally, we prefer "Greeting".

Mr. Campbell's lines on "Huerta's Finish" are distinctly below the usual
standard of this talented writer's work. The metre is satisfactory, but
the humor is somewhat strained, and the pun in the last line based on a
mispronunciation of the old Indian's name. "Wehr-ta" is probably the
correct sound, rather than "Hurt-a".

THE INSPIRATION for January must be judged strictly by its quality; not
its quantity. Pinkney C. Grissom, a very young amateur, cheers us
greatly with his article on "Smiles", while Miss von der Heide's
microscopic story, "A Real Victory", is indeed a literary treat. We
trust that the editor's threat of discontinuance may not be realized.

THE KANSAN for July reaches us at a late date through the kindness of
Mr. Daas. In this magazine the Sunflower Club of Bazine makes its formal
debut, being ushered into amateur society by means of a pleasing and
well-written article from the pen of Miss Hoffman. The informal
"Exchange Comment" is a charitable and generally delightful department,
whose anonymity we rather regret. The Editorial pages are brilliant in
their justification of the United's sunny spirit, as contrasted with the
National's forbidding frigidity.

THE OLYMPIAN for September-February well sustains the lofty traditions
of that magazine. Mr. Cole defines with considerable precision his
latest editorial policy and his true attitude toward the United,
revealing only the more strongly, however, his remarkable and
ineradicable prejudice against our association in favor of the National.
"Evening Prayer", by Rheinhart Kleiner, is a poem of great beauty and
real worth, couched in the alternating iambic pentameter and trimeter
which this poet seems to have made his own particular medium of
expression. Mr. Kleiner is rapidly assuming a very high rank among
amateur poets.

"The Public Library", by Eloise N. Griffith, is a delightful and
appreciative reminiscence of quiet hours of lettered joy.

"The Play Hour", consisting of two clever bits of metre dedicated to a
very young amateur, appears in a collection of short and sprightly
pieces signed by the Senior Editor himself. It is difficult,
nevertheless, to imagine the dignified Olympian Zeus as the author.
Though the second of these tuneful rhymes is apparently written in the
"simplified" spelling now so popular among certain amateur editors, a
closer inspection reveals the fact that the spelling is merely made
juvenile to suit the subject. After all, however, simplified spelling
and baby-talk are but little removed from each other. The Reviewers'
Club is in this issue represented by both editors, whose criticisms are
as usual just and illuminating.

PROMETHEUS for September-November is a journal of unusual literary and
artistic value, edited by our poet-laureate, Miss Olive G. Owen. The
paper well lives up to its sub-title, "A Magazine of Aspirations Dreamed
into Reality". Mr. William H. Greenfield, the honored founder of the
United, claims the first page with a graceful Pindaric ode, "To My
Friend". "The Weaver of Dreams", by Edna G. Thorne, is a strikingly
well-written short story pervaded with a delicate pathos and expressing
a beautiful Christian philosophy. George W. Macauley, continuing to
concentrate his narrative powers on the Oriental tale, presents a
pleasing fable of old Moorish Spain, entitled "Ali Ahmed and the
Aqueduct". "The Ethics of Stimulation", by Maurice W. Moe, is an
eminently sound exposition of the relative evil of coffee and alcoholic
liquor as stimulants. "Partners", by H. A. Reading, exhibits great
ability on the part of its author, and is well calculated to arouse the
emotions of affectionate fathers and sons.

Miss Owen's work, scattered here and there throughout the magazine, is
naturally of the very first quality. It is hard to choose between the
two poems "Atthis, I Love Thee", and "To Elizabeth Knopf", but we
incline slightly toward the former. The sketches "The Visitor" and "Some
Things I Like in New York" are both delightful in their artistic
simplicity.

Critically analyzed, Prometheus may be classed as one of the most varied
and generally readable magazines of the season.

RED LETTER DAYS for October is the first of an informal individual paper
by George W. Macauley, representing the most purely personal phase of
amateur journalism. This issue is almost completely devoted to an
animated account of the "Red Letter Days" spent by Mr. Macauley last
summer with the amateurs who stopped to see him while on their way to
the various conventions. The author's style is familiar and pleasing,
though rather careless, and slightly marred by defects in spelling and
grammar. For instance, we are told of the caution which he and Mr.
Stoddard exercised in changing seats in a boat, since neither "could
swim, had the boat DID the usual thing." We are sorry that Mr. Macauley
has adopted "simplified" spelling, but it is an evil in which he is by
no means alone.

Red Letter Days, broadly considered, is a highly commendable paper; its
simplicity and lack of affectation are alone sufficient to win general
approval.

STRAY LEAVES for May-June is another paper which has arrived late and
indirectly. In this publication we note with disapproval some evidence
of pseudo-professionalism, such as a subscription rate and
advertisements, but we trust that Miss Draper will ere long acquire the
perfect amateur spirit. "Love Proved To Be the Master of Hate", a short
story by Frances Wood, is handicapped by its unwieldy title. "The
Triumph of Love", or some heading of equal brevity, would better suit
it. Indications of immaturity are here and there perceptible, and at the
very beginning there is an inexplicable mass of hyphenation. However,
the tale is undeniably of considerable merit, conveying a pleasing
picture of jealousy overcome.

The Editorial department might be improved by a judicious copying of the
best amateur models. The reference to anti-Suffrage and Suffrage as "two
vital questions" is hardly permissible; these are the two sides of only
one question.

"Thinkers", by G. D., is really excellent as an essay, despite the
awkwardness of style.

The Bermuda letter is highly interesting in its descriptions, but
painfully unscholarly in its phraseology. We here behold a case of real
talent obscured by want of literary polish, and hope that F. A. B.,
whoever he or she may be, will profit by his or her connection with the
United.

Stray Leaves has great possibilities, and will doubtless prove one of
the leading papers of amateur journalism in times to come.

THE UNITED OFFICIAL QUARTERLY for January hardly lives up to the
artistic standard set by the first number, though it contains much
valuable matter. Herbert B. Darrow pleads very ably for the personal
acknowledgement of amateur papers received, while Paul J. Campbell
writes convincingly on the true value of amateur journalism. Pres.
Hepner, in the concluding article, opposes with considerable vigor the
Hoffman policy of issuing co-operative magazines. We are not, however,
inclined entirely to agree with our executive's conclusions. The
co-operative journal is practically the only adequate medium of
expression for the amateur of limited means, and most of the later
journals of this class, of which the Official Quarterly is itself an
example, have been of excellent quality. It is perhaps too much to
expect the average President, encumbered with a host of other duties, to
conduct this work, but in any event some suitable official should be
delegated for that purpose. The association should not lightly abandon a
policy which made the preceding administration one of the most brilliant
and successful in years.

THE WOODBEE for January exhibits amateur journalism at its best. Mrs.
Anne Tillery Renshaw opens the magazine with a pleasing poem, dedicated
to the Woodbees, which combines simplicity of diction with regularity of
metre. Those decasyllabic quatrains are a decided departure from Mrs.
Renshaw's usual style, which explains the slight lack of fluency. The
last line of the third stanza contains a redundant syllable, a defect
which might be corrected by the removal of the article before the word
"louder", or by the poetical contraction of "sympathy" into "symp'thy".
The third line of the fourth stanza possesses only four feet. This may
be an intentional shortening to give rhetorical effect, yet it mars none
the less the symmetry of the verse.

"The Spiritual Significance of the Stars", by Leo Fritter, is the
leading feature of the issue. The inspiring influence of astronomical
study on the cultivated intellect is here shown to best advantage. Mr.
Fritter traces the slow unfolding of celestial knowledge to the world,
and points out the divinity of that mental power which enables man to
discern the vastness of the universe, and to comprehend the complex
principles by which it is governed. In the laws of the heavens he finds
the prototype of all human laws, and the one perfect model for human
institutions. Mr. Fritter's essay is eminently worthy of a place among
the classics of amateur journalism.

"A Morn in June", by Harriet E. Daily, is a short and dainty poem of
excellent quality, though marred by a reprehensible attempt to rhyme
"grass" with "task". As we mentioned in connection with another amateur
poem, a final consonant on one of two otherwise rhyming syllables
utterly destroys the rhyme. "We Are Builders All", by Elizabeth M.
Ballou, is a graceful allegory based on the temple of Solomon. Edna
Mitchell Haughton's character sketch, "The Family Doctor", is just and
well drawn.

"A Dog for Comfort", by Edna von der Heide, is a meritorious poem of
gloomy impressiveness. We cannot quite account for the defective second
line of the fourth stanza, since Miss von der Heide is so able a
poetess. Perhaps it is intentional, but we wish the line were of normal
decasyllabic length. "My Grandmother's Garden", by Ida Cochran Haughton,
is a truly delightful bit of reminiscent description which deserves more
than one reading. "A Little Girl's Three Wishes", by Mrs. R. M. Moody,
is entertaining in quality and correct in metre. It is a relief to
behold amidst the formless cacophony of modern poetry such a regular,
old-fashioned specimen of the octosyllabic couplet. "Two Little
Waterwheels", by Dora M. Hepner, is an exquisite idyllic sketch. In the
second paragraph we read of a channel "damned" up by a projecting root
of a tree; which somewhat surprises us, since we did not know that
tree-roots are accustomed to use profane language. Perhaps the author
intended to write "dammed".

The editorials are brief. In one of them it is stated that the paper is
submitted without fear to the critics AND Eddie Cole. In view of Mr.
Cole's scholarly and conscientious critical work, we hope that no
reflection upon him is there intended.

                                                  H. P. LOVECRAFT,
                             Chairman, Department of Public Criticism.

MARCH

    Let other bards with nobler talents sing
    The beauties of the mild, maturer spring.
    My rustic Muse on bleaker times must dwell,
    When Earth, but new-escap'd from winter's spell,
    Uncloth'd, unshelter'd, unadorn'd, is seen;
    Stript of white robes, nor yet array'd in green.
    Hard blows the breeze, but with a warmer force.
    The melting ground, the brimming watercourse,
    The wak'ning air, the birds' returning flight,
    The longer sunshine, and the shorter night,
    Arcturus' beams, and Corvus' glitt'ring rays,
    Diffuse a promise of the genial days.
    Yon muddy remnant of the winter snow
    Shrinks humbly in the equinoctial glow,
    Whilst in the fields precocious grass-blades peep
    Above the earth so lately wrapt in sleep.
    What sweet, elusive odor fills the soil,
    To rouse the farmer to his yearly toil!
    Though thick the clouds, and bare the maple bough,
    With what gay song he guides the cumbrous plough!
    In him there stirs, like sap within the tree,
    The joyous call to new activity:
    The outward scene, however dull and drear,
    Takes on a splendor from the inward cheer.
    Prophetic month! Would that I might rehearse
    Thy hidden beauties in sublimer verse:
    Thy glorious youth, thy vigor all unspent,
    Thy stirring winds, of spring and winter blent.
    Summer brings blessings of enervate kind;
    Thy joys, O March, are ecstasies of mind.
    In June we revel in the bees' soft hum,
    But March exalts us with the bliss to come.

                                --H. P. LOVECRAFT.

                        THE UNITED AMATEUR

 OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE UNITED AMATEUR PRESS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA

 VOLUME XIV         GEORGETOWN, ILL., MAY, 1915.          NUMBER 5

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC CRITICISM

THE BLARNEY STONE for January-February is replete with good literature,
amidst which may particularly be mentioned Arthur Goodenough's
harmonious poem, "God Made Us All of Clay". The theme is not new, but
appears advantageously under Mr. Goodenough's delicate treatment.

M. W. Hart's short story, "The Redemption", is intended to portray a
righteous transformation from conventional false morality to true
Christian life, but in reality presents a very repulsive picture of
bestial atavism. The meaner character was not "reformed by mercy", but
merely withheld from wholesale vice by isolation. Mr. Hart is so plainly
in earnest when he relates this dismal tale as a sermon, that we must
not be too harsh in questioning his taste or condemning his free
standards of civilized morality; yet we doubt seriously if stories or
essays of this type should appear in the press, and especially in the
amateur press. Two or three technical points demand attention. The word
"diversified" on page 2 might better be "diverse", while "environment"
on page 4, could well be replaced by "condition" or "state". On page 5
occurs the sentence "All intelligence ... were ... instinct". Obviously
the verb should be in the singular number to correspond with its
subject. Mr. Hart is developing a prose style of commendable dignity,
unusually free from the jarring touch of modern frivolity.

H. B. Scott is proving himself a finished scholar and a thoughtful
editor in his conduct of The Blarney Stone; his able essay on
"Personality" is eminently worthy of more than one perusal.

THE BOYS' HERALD for May presents us with a highly interesting account
of Robert Louis Stevenson's career as an amateur journalist, together
with a facsimile reproduction of the cover of "The Sunbeam Magazine",
Stevenson's hand-written periodical. The column of reminiscences,
containing letters from various old-time amateurs, is extremely
inspiring to the younger members, showing how persistently the amateur
spirit adheres to all who have truly acquired it. "Nita at the Passing
Show" is a witty and entertaining parody by Mr. Smith, illustrating the
theatrical hobby of Miss Gerner; one of the latest United recruits. The
Boys' Herald discharges a peculiar and important function in the life of
the associations, connecting the present with the past, and furnishing
us with just standards for comparison.

DOWDELL'S BEARCAT for December opens with a Christmas poem of great
beauty and harmonious construction from the pen of Dora M. Hepner. The
thoughts and images are without exception lofty and well selected, and
the only possible defect is the attempt to rhyme "come" with "run" in
the last stanza. Edward H. Cole's review of a recent booklet in memory
of Miss Susan Brown Robbins, a former amateur, is more than a criticism.
It is a rare appreciation of the bonds of mutual esteem and respect
which grow up amongst the congenial members of the press associations.
Mr. Cole is peculiarly well fitted to deal with his subject, and no
praise is needed beyond the statement that the review is characteristic
of him.

DOWDELL'S BEARCAT for January marks the metamorphosis of that periodical
into a newspaper. With youthful ambition, Mr. Dowdell is resolved to
furnish the United with the latest items of interest concerning
amateurs. While the general style of the paper is fluent and pleasing,
we believe that "Bruno" might gain much force of expression through the
exercise of a little more care and dignity in his prose. For instance,
many colloquial contractions like "don't", "won't", or "can't" might be
eliminated, while such slang phrases as "neck of the woods", "make
good", "somewhat off", or "bunch of yellow-backs" were better omitted.

DOWDELL'S BEARCAT for March is notable for an increase in size. "A Visit
to Niagara Falls", by Andrew R. Koller, is an intelligent and animated
piece of description, which promises well for the development of its
author. What looseness of construction exists may be charged to youth.
"An Ambition and a Vision", by Nettie A. Hartman, is a neat and
grammatically written little sketch, probably autobiographical,
describing the evolution of an amateur. Greater cultivation of
rhetorical taste would improve Miss Hartman's style, and we are certain
that it possesses a fundamental merit which will make improvement an
easy matter. With the usual regret we observe an instance of "simple
spelling", which Mr. Dowdell, who does not fall into this vice himself,
has evidently overlooked in editing. The news items this month are
timely and vivacious, exhibiting "Bruno" at his best.

THE LAKE BREEZE for March inaugurates a very welcome revival of the
United's foremost news sheet, now to be issued monthly. Mr. Daas is so
active an amateur, and so closely connected with the development of the
association, that his ably edited journal has almost the authority of an
official organ.

The editorial entitled "Ashes and Roses" is a powerful and convincing
reply to a rather weak attack lately made on the United by a member of a
less active association. Mr. Daas uses both sense and sarcasm to great
advantage, leaving but little ground for his opponent to occupy.

"The Amateur Press" is a well conducted column of contributed reviews,
among which Mrs. A. M. Adams' eulogy of Mrs. Griffith's essay in Outward
Bound is perhaps the best. "What is Amateur Journalism?", by "El
Imparcial", is a sketch of the various types of amateurs, with a
suggestion of the ideal type. While free from glaring defects, the essay
gives no really new information, and brings out no strikingly original
ideas. "Some Objections to Moving Pictures", by Edmund L. Shehan,
presents a strong array of evidence against one of the most popular and
instructive amusements of today. We do not believe, however, that the
objections here offered are vital. The moving picture has infinite
possibilities for literary and artistic good when rightly presented, and
having achieved a permanent place, seems destined eventually to convey
the liberal arts to multitudes hitherto denied their enjoyment. Mr.
Shehan's prose style is clear and forceful, capable of highly
advantageous development.

LITERARY BUDS for April is the first number of a paper issued by the new
Athenaeum Club of Journalism, Harvey, Ill. Though the text of most of
the contributions has suffered somewhat through a slight misapprehension
concerning the editing, the issue is nevertheless pleasing and
creditable.

"A la Rudyard", a poem by George A. Bradley, heads the contents. While
hampered by some of the heaviness natural to authors of school age, Mr.
Bradley has managed to put into his lines a laudable enthusiasm and
genuine warmth. The editorial column is well conducted, the second item
being especially graphic, though the "superdreadnought" metaphor seems
rather forced. Clara Inglis Stalker, the enthusiastic and capable
educator through whose efforts the club was formed, gives a brief
account of her organization, under the title "The History of an
Eight-Week-Old", and in a prose style of uniformly flowing and
attractive quality. "A Love Song", Miss Stalker's other contribution, is
a poem of delicate imagery and unusual metre. "Our Paring Knife", by
Gertrude Van Lanningham, is a short sketch with an aphorism at the end.
Though this type of moral lesson is a little trite, Miss Van Lanningham
shows no mean appreciation of literary form, and will, when she has
emerged from the "bud" stage, undoubtedly blossom into a graphic and
sympathetic writer. "Co-Education", by Caryl W. Dempsey, is an
interesting but only partially convincing article on a topic of
considerable importance. The author, being enthusiastically in favor of
the practice, enumerates its many benefits; yet the arguments are
decidedly biased. While the advantage of co-education to young ladies
is made quite obvious, it remains far from clear that young men receive
equal benefit. A desirable decline of cliques and hazing might, it is
true, result from the admission of women to men's universities, but the
young men would undoubtedly lose much in earnest, concentrated energy
and dignified virility through the presence of the fair. The experiment,
radical at best, has failed more than once. The style of this essay is
slightly wanting in ease and continuity, yet possesses the elements of
force. "The Traitor", by Agnes E. Fairfield, is a short story of
artistic development but questionable sentiment. The present fad of
peace-preaching should not be allowed to influence a writer of sense
into glorifying a socialistic, unpatriotic fanatic who refuses to uphold
the institutions that his fathers before him created with their toil,
blood, and sacrifice. It is not the right of the individual to judge of
the necessity of a war; no layman can form an intelligent idea of the
dangers that may beset his fatherland. The man is but a part of the
state, and must uphold it at any cost. We are inclined to wonder at Miss
Fairfield's mention of a king, when the name Phillipe La Roque so
clearly proclaims the hero a Frenchman. France, be it known, has been a
republic for some little time. "Penny in the Slot", by Vaughn Flannery,
possesses a humor that is pleasing and apparently quite spontaneous. We
should like to behold more of Mr. Flannery's efforts in this field.

Viewed in its entirety, allowance being made for its present essentially
juvenile nature, Literary Buds may be regarded as a pronounced success.
That it will mature in consonance with the club which it represents is
certain, and each future issue can be relied upon to surpass its
predecessor.

OLE MISS' for March, edited by Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Renshaw, easily falls
into the very front rank of the season's amateur journals. In this
number Mr. Joseph W. Renshaw makes his initial appearance before the
members of the United, producing a very favorable impression with his
pure, attractive prose. The introduction, credited in another column to
Mr. Renshaw, is of graceful and pleasing character, recalling the
elusively beautiful atmosphere of the Old South which is too soon
passing away.

"The Humble Swallow", an anonymous essay, praises with singularly
delicate art a feathered creature whose charms lie not on the surface.
The concluding paragraph, condemning the wanton slaughter of this winged
friend to mankind, is especially apt at a time of hysterical peace
agitation. While the well meaning advocates of peace call wildly upon
men to abandon just warfare against destructive and malignant enemies,
they generally pass over without thought or reproof the wholesale murder
of these innocent little birds, who never did nor intended harm to
anyone. "A Higher Recruiting Standard", by Mrs. Renshaw, is an able
exposition of the newer and loftier type of ideals prevailing in the
United. Our association has never lacked numbers, but would undoubtedly
be the better for an increased standard of scholarship such as is here
demanded. Mrs. Renshaw's work as a recruiter is in keeping with her
policy, and this, together with Mr. Moe's work amongst the English
teachers, seems destined to raise the United far above its lesser
contemporaries. "An A. J. Suggestion", by Mr. Renshaw, deals ingeniously
and logically with the always difficult problem of selecting a printer.
Though evidently written quite independently, it ably seconds Paul J.
Campbell's original suggestion in the UNITED AMATEUR. The advantages of
having one printer for all amateur work are many, and the well presented
opinions of Mr. Renshaw should aid much in securing this desirable
innovation.

The poetry in Ole Miss' is all by Mrs. Renshaw, and therefore of first
quality. "Some One I Know" is a lightly amatory piece of tuneful rhythm.
"Night of Rain" gives a peculiarly pleasing aspect to a type of scene
not usually celebrated in verse. The only jarring note is the rather
mundane metaphor which compares the trees to a "beautiful mop". Though
Mrs. Renshaw holds unusual ideas regarding the use of art in poetry, we
contend that this instance of rhetorical frigidity is scarcely
permissible. It is too much like Sir Richard Blackmore's description of
Mount Aetna, wherein he compares a volcanic eruption to a fit of colic;
or old Ben Johnson's battle scene in the fifth act of "Catiline", where
he represents the sun perspiring. "Man of the Everyday" is a noble
panegyric on the solid, constructive virtues of the ordinary citizen,
portraying very graphically the need of his presence in a world that
heeds him but little.

Considered in all its aspects, Ole Miss' is a notable contribution to
amateur literature, and one which we hope to see oft repeated.

THE PASSING SHOW for February is the "second annual production" of an
excellent though informal little paper by Nita Edna Gerner, a new member
of the United, and the daughter of an old-time amateur. Miss Gerner is
an enthusiast on all matters pertaining to the theatre, and has
impressed her hobby very strongly on the pages of her publication.

The dominant theme of the current issue is that of amateur romance,
exhibiting the press associations in the role of matrimonial agencies.
"The Twos-ers", by Edwin Hadley Smith, is a long list of couples who
became wedded through acquaintanceships formed in amateur journalism.
This catalogue, recording 26 marriages and engagements from the
earliest ages to the present, must have cost its author much time and
research. "A Romance of Amateur Journalism", by Edward F. Daas, is a
very brief statement of facts in unornamented style. "An 'Interstate'
Romance", by Leston M. Ayres, is more elaborate in treatment, and
displays an easy, colloquial style.

The editorial column, headed "Through the Opera-Glasses", is bright and
informal. We note with regret that Miss Gerner has seen fit to adopt the
popular mutilated orthography of the day, a fad which we trust she will
discard in time.

PEARSON'S PET for April is a bright and attractive little paper
throughout. "Burnin' Off" is a delightful specimen of dialect verse
which conveys a graphic image. We have never witnessed such an
agricultural function as Mr. Pearson describes, but can gain from his
clever lines a vivid idea of its weird impressiveness. "How I Met Elbert
Hubbard" is narrated in commendably easy prose, which same may be said
of the sketch or editorial entitled "Broke Loose Again". Mr. Pearson is
assuredly a competent exponent of amateur journalism's lighter and less
formal side.

THE PIPER for May is as pleasing and meritorious as the first number,
both in its verse and its prose. "The Modern Muse", exhibiting Mr.
Kleiner in a somewhat humorous mood, is very forceful in its satire on
the altered ideals of the poetical fraternity, but is marred by the
noticeably imperfect rhyming of "garret" and "carrot", it is barely
possible that according to the prevailing New York pronunciation this
rhyme is not so forced as it appears, but we are of New England, and
accustomed to hearing the sounds more classically differentiated. The
defect is trivial at most, and mentioned here only because Mr. Kleiner
professes such a rigid adherence to the law of perfect rhyming. "The
Books I Used to Read" is the most delightful appreciation of juvenile
literature that has appeared in amateur journalism within our memory.
There are few of us in whom this poem will fail to arouse glad
reminiscences. "Spring" is a pleasing poem on a subject which though not
exactly new, is nevertheless susceptible to an infinite variety of
treatment. The four stanzas are highly creditable, both sentimentally
and metrically. Apart from the poetry, criticism seems the dominant
element in The Piper, and it would be difficult indeed to find a more
lucid and discerning series of reviews. Mr. Kleiner's unvarying advocacy
of correct metre and perfect rhyming is refreshing to encounter in this
age of laxity and license. Perhaps he is a little stern in his
condemnation of the "allowable" rhymes of other days, especially in view
of his recent "garret-carrot" attempt, yet we admit that there is much
to be said in favor of his attitude.

THE PLAINSMAN for February contains a gruesome moral tale by Ricardo
Santiago, entitled "The Bell of Huesca". It is proper to remark here,
that an important sentence was omitted at the top of page 3. The passage
should read "'Sire, thy bell has no clapper!' 'Thy head shall be the
clapper'; said the king, and he sent him to the block" etc. Whatever may
be said of the aptness of the allegory, it is evident that Mr. Santiago
possesses the foundations of a pure and forcible prose style, and a
commendable sense of unity in narration and development of climax. This
story is undoubtedly worthy of its distinction as winner in The
Plainsman's post-card contest.

THE SPECTATOR for June-July, 1914, though somewhat trite in title, is
the first number of a magazine notable for its quality. Walter John Held
is without doubt one of the most enterprising youths who have ever
joined the ranks of the association, though his views on paid
subscriptions and advertisements show his still imperfect acquisition of
the true amateur spirit. Mr. Held mistakes commercial progress for
artistic development, believing that the aim of every amateur in his
ascent toward professional authorship is to write remunerative matter.
He therefore considers a publisher's advancement to be best shown in
ability to extract an odd penny now and then from a few subscribers who
really subscribe only out of courtesy. We wish that Mr. Held might come
to consider amateur journalism in its higher aspects; as a medium for
improvement in literature and taste; an aid to the cultivation of the
art for its own sake in the manner of gentlemen, not of cheap tradesmen.
The selection of commercial prosperity as a goal will ruin any true
literary progress, and dull the artistic aspiration of the student as
soon as his mercenary instincts shall have been satisfied. Besides,
there is really no sound business principle in the so-called "sale" of
little papers. No youth could ever found or sustain a real magazine of
substantial price and more than nominal circulation. The various
ten-cents-a-year journals which some "amateurs" try to edit are no
logical steps toward actually professional publishing. The latter comes
only after literary skill has been attained, and literary skill must at
first be developed without regard for immediate monetary profit.

But the merit of Mr. Held's work is none the less unusual. "The Frank
Friend" gives evidence of considerable critical ability, despite the
touch of arrogance, apologized for in a latter issue, shown in imperfect
appreciation of Mr. Edward H. Cole's phenomenally pure English. Mr.
Held, in his enthusiasm for "local color", forgets that all the
English-speaking world is heir to one glorious language which should be
the same from Cape Colony to California or New York to New Zealand.

The only poem in this issue is Olive G. Owen's "How Prayest Thou?", a
piece of true sentiment and artistic beauty. The only fault is metrical;
the use of the word "trial" as a monosyllable. This tendency to slur
over words appears to be Miss Owen's one poetical vice, as exemplified
in the imperfect rendering of "jewel", "realness", and "cruelness"
elsewhere.

THE SPECTATOR for August-September is marred by a resurrection of the
ever odious topic of Consolidation, but is otherwise of remarkable
merit. Elbert Hubbard, a professional advertiser and writer of
considerable popularity in certain circles, relates in an interesting
way the history of his most widely known literary effort. Mr. Hubbard's
prose style is direct and pointed, though rather abrupt and barren. "The
Midnight Extra", by Dora M. Hepner, is a humorous short story of unusual
merit, leading from a well created atmosphere of terror to a clever and
unexpected anticlimax.

THE SPECTATOR for October-November contains much matter of very
substantial worth. "Creation", by Edward R. Taylor, Dean of the
University of California, is a beautiful bit of poetical sentiment and
harmonious metre, while "Half-past-twelve", by Miss von der Heide, is
likewise of great merit, both in thought and in structure. We have
lately been told that many apparent metrical defects which we have noted
are really no more than typographical errors, wherefore we will here
content ourselves by expressing the belief that the third line of the
second stanza of "Half-past-twelve" was originally written thus:

    "Across the dark their shrilling laughter floats".

This rendering would do away with two seeming errors in the printed
copy. Olive G. Owen's "Battle-Prayer" is powerful in its appeal and
faultless in its construction. Of marked interest is "Divine
Self-Tower", a brief essay by Takeshi Kanno, the Japanese philosopher.
These words, in a tongue foreign to the writer, contain material for
more than a moment's thought.

"The Frank Friend" is in this number as interesting a critic as before.
The passage of four months has tempered his undue severity; indeed, we
fear that he has in certain cases veered a little too far toward the
other extreme. The most ambitious review is that of "Pig-pen Pete", by
Elbert Hubbard, which gives Mr. Held an opportunity to display his
powers to great advantage. Of the two editorials, that entitled "Life"
is the more notable. Though its philosophy must necessarily be rather
artificial, considering Mr. Held's age, it is none the less a very
artistic and generally creditable piece of composition. The cover of The
Spectator would be less Hearst-like if the fulsome announcements were
eliminated.

TOLEDO AMATEUR for April greets us in altered form, as a two-column
paper. Having given over the previous issue to the credentials of new
members, Mr. Porter very justly claims a goodly space for himself this
month, commenting ably on the affairs and activities of the
associations.

"Camp Columbia", by James J. Hennessey, gives an interesting outline of
the American army routine in Cuba during the years 1907 and 1908.
"Observations of an Outsider", by Mrs. Porter, mother of the editor,
sheds light on amateur journalism from a hitherto unusual angle. We note
with pleasure that Toledo Amateur remains immune from the destructive
bacillus of deformed spelling.

THE WOODBEE for April contains "The Cycle Eternal", a lucid
philosophical article by Samuel James Schilling, wherein is described
the dispersal and new combinations of the organic cells that compose the
body of mankind. By the perpetual reincorporation or reincarnation of
these cells in all other forms of matter, man is shown to be immortal,
and in the closest degree akin to every natural object surrounding him.
His outward form is merely one transient phase of a ceaseless
rearrangement of atoms; he is simply one aspect of infinite and eternal
Nature. Save for a few slight traces of rhetorical awkwardness, Mr.
Schilling's expository style is remarkable for its force and clearness;
the arrangement of the essay into Prologue, Body, and Epilogue is
especially favorable to comprehensiveness.

While Mr. Schilling deals with mankind in the abstract, Miss Mabel
McKee, in "A Gift from the City", presents a concrete example of the
workings of the human heart. Her subject and treatment are not
startlingly original, but such themes lose very little when repeated in
pure English and attractive style. The story is distinctly pleasing, and
artistically developed throughout.

A notable feature of the April Woodbee is Miss Hepner's fervent and
unstudied tribute to Mr. Leo Fritter, candidate for the United's
Presidency. Though the editorial is bestrewn with slang and distinctly
familiar in construction, it produces upon the reader an impression of
absolute sincerity and intensity of feeling which more elaborate
rhetoric might fail so forcibly to convey. Great as is the tribute,
however, we feel that Mr. Fritter is worthy of it, and must congratulate
him on having such support. Our own efforts for his election, appearing
in The Conservative, seem slight in comparison. The only verse in this
number is "My Shrine", by Harriet E. Daily. Though containing an attempt
to rhyme the words "time" and "shrine", this ethereal little poem of
spring is of great attractiveness.

ZEPPELIN for March, a publication emanating from the pen of Mr. O. S.
Hackett of Canton, Pennsylvania, is scarcely as formidable and menacing
as its name, being distinctly friendly and fraternal in its general
tone. Mr. Hackett's prose has obviously not received its final
polishing, but it is so filled with aspiration, ambition, and enthusiasm
for the cause of amateur journalism, that it evidently requires only
such development as is obtainable from a closer study of grammar and
rhetoric, and a wider perusal of classic English literature. In one
matter Mr. Hackett seems to harbor a wrong impression. The name
"credential", in the language of the amateurs, is not applied to all
literary productions, but only to those which are submitted by the new
recruits as evidence of their educational fitness for membership in the
association they seek to enter.

Joseph R. Schaffman's poem, "Think of Times Yet Coming", shows the same
innate sense of rhyme and metre that has distinguished his earlier work.
Only the conclusion lacks perfect ease and naturalness. Mr. Schaffman
has so far confined his Muse to optimistic opinions and moral maxims; we
hope that in the near future he will vary his efforts and attempt to
reflect more of his general reading in his poetry. The field is large
for one so happily favored with the gift of song.

                                                  H. P. LOVECRAFT,
                                                             Chairman.

                   THE UNITED AMATEUR

 Official Organ of the United Amateur Press Association

 VOLUME XV    ELROY, WIS., SEPTEMBER, 1915     NUMBER 2

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC CRITICISM

_The Alabamian_ for Spring is a magazine unique amongst the publications
of the United. Devoted wholly to poetry, it contains some of the finest
short verses to appear this season, whilst even the crudest part of its
contents possesses some undoubted merit. The opening poem, a delightful
and ornate nature sonnet entitled "The Brook," professes to be a
translation from the Spanish, a claim borne out by the use of the word
"jasmine" in a place where the metre throws the accent anomalously on
the last syllable, as in the corresponding Spanish word "jazmin." The
sentiment of the whole is exquisite, and every image exhibits striking
beauty. It is to be regretted that both author and translator are
suffered to remain unrevealed. "A Poet's Songs," by Miss Owen, is a
powerful and well-written tribute to her fellow-bards both ancient and
modern. In Coralie Austin's "Tribute to Our President," dedicated to
Miss Hepner, we may discern the native talent of the true poet, slightly
obscured by the crudities of youth. The opening line appears to lack a
syllable, though this may be due only to the printer's omission of the
article before the word "laurel." In stanza 1, line 2, the trisyllabic
word "violets" appears as a dissyllable. This contraction is a rather
natural one, and must not be criticised too sternly. Indeed, there is
here a sort of middle zone betwixt error and allowableness, wherein no
decisive precepts may be laid down. Words like "radiant," "difference,"
and so forth, are nearly always slurred into dissyllables, and we were
ourselves guilty of an even greater liberalism when we wrote that line
in "Quinsnicket Park" which reads:

    "The bending boughs a _diamond_ wealth amass."

But in Miss Austin's second stanza occur two errors of graver nature.
"For only her alone" is a lamentably tautological line which requires
the omission either of "only" or "alone," and the substitution of some
word to carry on the flow of metre. The attempted rhyming of "alone" and
"home" is obviously incorrect. The dissimilar consonantal sounds render
agreement impossible. This "m-n" rhyme, as we may call it, is becoming
alarmingly frequent in careless modern verse, and must ever be avoided
with utmost diligence. In the third stanza we discover a marked error in
maintenance of number. We are told that the "years go" and that at "its
end" we will lay trophies, etc. This mistake may be obviated with ease,
by changing "years go" to "year goes." Miss Austin's poetic talent is
great, but shows the want of precise cultivation. "Mother o' Mine," by
Miss von der Heide, is a beautiful piece of anapaestic verse whose metre
and sentiment alike attract the reader. "Parsifal," by Miss Owen, shows
satisfactory depth of thought, but is rather modern in metre. From the
conformation of the last line of the first stanza, we are led to believe
that the word "viol" is contracted to a monosyllable, or, to make a
rather reprehensible pun, that "vi-ol" has here a "vile" pronunciation.
"Frailties of Life," by Editor Baxley, shows a remarkable system of
extended rhyming, coupled with a noticeable lack of metrical harmony.
Mr. Baxley's technique is such that we believe his improvement would be
best effected by a repeated perusal of the older poets, whose classical
exactitude of form would teach him rhythm by rote, so to speak. Let him
cultivate his ear for metre, even though forced to acquire it through
nonsensical jingles. We believe that many a child has obtained from his
"Mother Goose" a love of correct rhythm which has later helped him in
serious poetical efforts. "Paid Back," a short, powerful poem by Miss
von der Heide, concludes an excellent and praiseworthy issue.

_Aurora_ for April is a delightful individual leaflet by Mrs. Ida C.
Haughton, exclusively devoted to poetical matters. The first poem,
"Aurora," is truly exquisite as a verbal picture of the summer dawn,
though rather rough-hewn metrically. Most open to criticism of all the
features of this piece, is the dissimilarity of the separate stanzas. In
a stanzaic poem the method of rhyming should be identical in every
stanza, yet Mrs. Haughton has here wavered between couplets and
alternate rhymes. In the opening stanza we behold first a quatrain, then
a quadruple rhyme. In the second we find couplets only. In the third a
quatrain is followed by an arrangement in which two rhyming lines
enclose a couplet, while in the final stanza the couplet again reigns
supreme. The metre also lacks uniformity, veering from iambic to
anapaestic form. These defects are, of course, merely technical, not
affecting the beautiful thought and imagery of the poem; yet the
sentiment would seem even more pleasing were it adorned with the garb of
metrical regularity. "On the Banks of Old Wegee" is a sentimental poem
of considerable merit, which suffers, however, from the same faults that
affect "Aurora." Most of these defects might have been obviated when the
stanzas were composed, by a careful counting of syllables in each line
and a constant consultation of some one, definite plan of rhyming. We
must here remark an error made in the typewritten copy of the original
manuscript, and reproduced in the finished magazine, for which, of
course, neither the poetical art of the author nor the technique of the
printer is to blame. In the second stanza, lines 6 and 7 were originally
written:

    "How oft I've essayed to be
    A fisherman bold, but my luck never told."

"Anent the Writing of Poetry" is a short prose essay, in which many
valuable truths are enunciated. Mrs. Haughton has evidently taken up the
poetic art with due seriousness, and considering the marked talent shown
in the first issue of her paper, we may justly expect to behold a
wonderfully rapid development in the near future.

_The Badger_ for June fulfills the promise of January, and shows us that
the present year has given the United a new and serious periodical of
satisfying quality. In the "Introductory," Mr. George Schilling
discusses in lively fashion the latest topics of the day, thereby
atoning for our own tedious "Finale." "Ready Made," by Samuel J.
Schilling, is a thoughtful presentation of a lamentable fact. The evil
which he portrays is one that has rendered the masses of America almost
wholly subservient to the vulgar press; to be led astray into every sort
of radicalism through low tricks of sensationalism. Our own poetical
attempt, entitled "Quinsnicket Park," contains 112 lines, and spoils
three and a half otherwise excellent pages. It is probable that but few
have had the fortitude to read it through, or even to begin it, hence we
will pass over its defects in merciful silence. "What May I Own?" by
A. W. Ashby, is an able sociological essay which displays considerable
familiarity with the outward aspects of economic conditions. Mr. Ashby,
condemning the present system practiced in the coal and iron industries,
declares that on moral grounds he had rather be a brewer or purveyor of
liquor than a coal magnate or an ironmaster. In this statement,
evidently born of hasty fervour, Mr. Ashby forgets the basic character
of the two types of industry which he contrasts. Beneath the liquor
traffic lies a foundation accursed by decency and reason. The entire
industry is designed to pander to a false craving whose gratification
lowers man in the scale of mental and physical evolution. The distiller
and vendor of rum is elementally the supreme foe of the human race, and
the most powerful, dangerous and treacherous factor in the defiance of
progress and the betrayal of mankind. His trade can never be improved or
purified, being itself a crime against Nature. On the other hand, the
coal and iron industries are, in their fundamental forms, desirable and
necessary adjuncts to an expanding civilization. Their present evils are
wholly alien to their essential principles, being connected only with
the uneasy industrialism of this age. These faults are not confined to
coal-mining and iron-working, but are merely those possessed in common
with all great industries. Joseph E. Shufelt's article on the European
war is an amazing outburst of socialism in its worst form. The idea that
this shocking carnage is the result of a deliberate plot of the ruling
classes of all the belligerents to destroy their labouring element is
wonderfully ludicrous in its extravagance. We are led to infer that
those best of friends, der Kaiser and his cousins George and Nicholas,
are merely pretending hostility in order to rid themselves of a
troublesome peasantry! We do not know what Mr. Shufelt has been reading
lately, but we hope that time may modify his ideas to such a degree that
he will turn his dignified style and pure English to some object worthy
of their employment.

_Dowdell's Bearcat_ for July marks the beginning of an unprecedented era
of improvement in the quality of that periodical. Having settled down to
the conventional 5◊7 size, it has now acquired a cover and an abundance
of pages which the editor informs us will never be lessened. The
influence of _The Olympian_ is perceptible in the _Bearcat_, and for his
taste in the selection of so worthy a model Mr. Dowdell is to be
commended. "When the Tape Broke" is the first article of the editorial
column, and well describes an example of collapsed activity which the
United should avoid. "A Runaway Horse," by Mrs. Ida C. Haughton, is a
brief and vivid sketch of a fatal accident. "Tragedy," an exquisite poem
by Emilie C. Holladay, deserves very favourable notice for the delicate
pathos of its sentiment, and perfect adaptation of the measure to the
subject. We may discern a few traces of immaturity in the handling of
the metre and in the presence of "allowable" rhymes. As elsewhere
stated, we personally approve and employ the old-fashioned "allowable"
rhyming sounds, but the best modern taste, as exemplified in the United
by its Laureate, Rheinhart Kleiner, demands absolute perfection in this
regard. As to the metre, we respectfully offer the following amended
second stanza as an example. It is absolutely uniform with the original
first stanza, which, of course, furnishes the model.

          The summer rains
          And autumn winds
    The snowdrop find yet standing;
          A petal gone,
          And all alone,
    Her tender roots expanding.

The remarkable poetical talent exhibited by Miss Holladay deserves a
cultivation that shall invest her productions with a technique of the
highest order. "The Dignity of Journalism," by ourselves, may be taken
by the reader as a sort of supplement to this Department. We there
enumerate in the abstract some of the precepts which we shall here apply
to individual writers. There are several misprints, which we hope will
not be taken as evidences of our bad spelling, and at the conclusion the
word "even" is omitted from the phrase which should read: "the
necessity, or _even_ the expediency." "June Journals" is an excellent
set of short reviews which display very favourably the critical ability
of Mr. Dowdell. The concluding notes on "Amateur Affairs" are brief, but
very interesting. The general excellence of _Dowdell's Bearcat_ excuses
the instances of imperfect proof-reading, which fault we are sure will
soon be eliminated.

_The Blarney Stone_ for March-April contains "Thoughts," a meritorious
poem by Chester P. Munroe. The tone of the piece is that of sentimental
and almost melancholy reverie, hence the metre is not quite uniform; but
a commendable absence of rough breaks lends a delightful flow to the
lines. We hope to behold further efforts from Mr. Munroe's pen. "The
Amateur's Creed," by Mrs. Renshaw, is written in the style of this
author's previous and now well-known poem, "A Symphony," and should do
much toward lifting the United upward to the highest literary ideals.

_The Blarney Stone_ for May-June has cast off all undue seriousness, and
teems with light and attractive matter concerning the recent Rocky Mount
convention. Some of the displays of wit and cleverness are very striking
and entertaining indeed, while no page departs so far from merit that it
may be justly adjudged as dull.

_The Boys' Herald_ for August is an issue of unusual elaborateness,
announcing the engagement of its editor, Mr. Edwin Hadley Smith, and
Miss Nita Edna Gerner of New York. Excellent portraits of the happy
couple follow the formal announcement, and Miss Gerner, now Associate
Editor, describes in an excellent prose style the romance which
culminated in the engagement. "Gerneriana," consisting mainly of a
reprint from an earlier issue, is an interesting account of the late
Richard Gerner, an old-time amateur, and father of the prospective
bride. This article is well supplemented by the reproductions of parts
of old amateur papers which adorn the back cover of the magazine. The
remainder of _The Boys' Herald_ is wholly statistical, dealing with the
amateur career of Mr. Smith. Few members of the association could
produce superior records of activity.

_The Brooklynite_ for April maintains the high standard set by the
previous number. "A Miracle," the opening poem, was composed by Alice L.
Carson during the course of a meeting of the Blue Pencil Club, yet
exhibits all the grace and harmony expected in a carefully planned and
laboriously polished work. "Spring Thoughts," by A. M. Adams, is a
humorous prose masterpiece by the National's new Critic. Seldom is the
amateur press favoured with such a well-sustained succession of
brilliant epigrams. Miss Owen's "Ode to Trempealeau Mountain" is a noble
specimen of heroic blank verse, containing some very striking
antithetical lines. The title, however, is a misnomer, since a true ode
is necessarily of irregular form. "Some Late Amateur Magazines," by
W. B. Stoddard, is a series of brief, informal reviews. As a critic, Mr.
Stoddard shows considerable discernment, though having a rather
unpleasant air of conscious superiority in certain places. A little more
stateliness of style would add to the force of his criticisms. "Spring"
reveals Rheinhart Kleiner in his favourite domain of amatory verse. Mr.
Kleiner's tuneful numbers and pure diction render his poetry ever a
delight. "Rebellion," by Miss von der Heide, is a metrically perfect
piece of verse whose artistry is marred only by the use of the
unpoetical philosophical term "subconscious" instead of "unconscious."

_The Brooklynite_ for July is of especial interest as the first paper to
print an account of the Rocky Mount convention. This description, from
the facile and versatile pen of Miss von der Heide, is of distinctly
informal character, yet is none the less interesting as an animated
chronicle of an enjoyable event. Rheinhart Kleiner's account of the
National convention is more dignified, and may be considered as a model
for this sort of composition. Mr. Kleiner shines as brightly in prose as
in verse, and each day surprises us with revelations of excellence in
various dissimilar departments of literature.

_The Conservative_ for July is notable for Mr. Ira Cole's delightfully
pantheistic poem, "A Dream of the Golden Age." The unusual poetic genius
of Mr. Cole has been revealed but recently, yet the imaginative
qualities pervading some of his prose long ago gave indications of this
gift. The pantheistic, Nature-worshipping mind of our author lends to
his productions an unique and elusive atmosphere which contrasts very
favourably with the earthy tone of some of our less fanciful bards.
Metrically, Mr. Cole adopts instinctively the regular, conservative
forms of a saner generation. In this specimen of heroic verse he
inclines toward the practice of Keats, and does not always confine
single thoughts to single couplets in the manner of the
eighteenth-century poets. We believe that Mr. Cole is commencing a
successful career as a United poet, and await the day when he shall be
accorded the honor of a laureateship.

_The Coyote_ for July reveals a wonderful improvement over the March
number, both in the literary quality of its contributions and in general
editorial excellence. Never before have we seen the perfect amateur
spirit acquired so quickly as in Mr. Harrington's case. "Night Fancies,"
by Helen H. Salls, is a sonnet of exceptional power and artistry, whose
faultless metre is equalled only by its bold and striking images. Amidst
this profusion of excellent metaphor, it is difficult to select
individual instances for particular praise, but we might commend
especially the passage:

    "... the stars still keep
    Afloat like boats that black sky-billows ride."

Miss Salls is clearly an amateur poet of the first rank, and it is to be
hoped that she will be a liberal contributor to United magazines. "The
Rebirth of the British Empire," by William T. Harrington, is a clear and
concise exposition of the virtues whereby Old England maintains her
proud position as Mistress of the Seas, and chief colonial empire of the
world. The style of the essay is admirable, and well exhibits the
progressive qualities of Mr. Harrington. "An Ideal," by Nettie Hartman,
is a short poem of pleasing sentiment and harmonious metre. The notes on
amateur affairs are interesting and well composed, revealing Mr.
Harrington's increasing enthusiasm for the cause.

_Dowdell's Bearcat_ for May is another striking illustration of the
improvement which can affect a paper within a very short time. Since
last October Mr. Dowdell has been progressing swiftly toward
journalistic excellence, and even this cleverly conceived and uniquely
shaped issue fails to mark the limit of his ambition. "Knowest Thou?" by
Mrs. Renshaw, is an expressive tribute to a nation whose recent infamies
can never wholly becloud its rugged virtues. "With Nature I Rejoice" is
probably the best poem which Joseph R. Schaffman has yet written. As his
remarkable talent matures, the didactic element in his verse is
gradually giving way to the more purely poetic, and this latest effort
is one of which he may be justly proud. Concerning Mr. Dowdell's own
spirited prose, we need only repeat the previous suggestion, that a
little less slang would add much to its force and dignity.

_Dowdell's Bearcat_ for May 26 contains another poem by Mrs. Renshaw
whose national tone is not likely to be popular just now outside the
country to which it refers; in fact, Editor Dowdell has deemed it wise
to make an apologetic statement concerning it. However, if we call "Ein
Mann" Col. Theodore Roosevelt, and shift the scene to San Juan Hill, we
may be able to appreciate the real patriotism delineated.

_Dowdell's Bearcat_ for June is wholly given over to notes of the
amateur world. Mr. Dowdell is indeed a pleasing young writer, and leaves
none of his topics without a characteristic touch of light adornment.

_The Lake Breeze_ for April is distinguished by James L. Crowley's poem
entitled "April," a brief lyric of marked merit, highly expressive of
the season. "Writing Poetry," an essay by Dora M. Hepner, is a clear and
tasteful analysis of the poet's art and inspiration. "The Norwegian
Recruit," a dialect monologue by Maurice W. Moe, is the leading feature
of this issue. This exquisite bit of humor, recited by Mr. Moe at the
United's 1913 convention, is a sketch of rare quality. "The Amateur
Press," now firmly established as a column of contributed reviews, is
this month of substantial size and fair quality. It is needless to say
that the news pages are interesting, and that the paper as a whole well
maintains the high reputation it has ever enjoyed.

_The Lake Breeze_ for June apparently opens an era of unprecedented
improvement, being of distinctly literary rather than political nature.
The plea for a Department of Instruction is a just one, and ought to
meet with response from some of our pedagogical members. "Broken Metre,"
by Mrs. Renshaw, is an attempt at defending the popular atrocities
committed in the name of freedom by the modern poets. While the article
is superficially quite plausible, we feel that the settled forms of
regular metre have too much natural justification thus to be disturbed.
The citation of Milton, intended to strengthen Mrs. Renshaw's argument,
really weakens it; for while he undoubtedly condemns _rhyme_, he laments
in the course of this very condemnation the _lame metre_ which is
sometimes concealed by apt rhyming. "Some Views on Versification," by
Clara I. Stalker, is an essay written from a sounder and more
conservative point of view. The middle course in poetical composition,
which avoids alike wild eccentricities and mechanical precision, has
much to recommend it, and Miss Stalker does well to point out its
virtues. However, we do not see why even the few irregularities which
are here said to be inevitable, cannot be smoothed out by the bard
without destroying the sense of his poetry. "Disappointment," by Mrs.
Maude K. Barton, is a clever piece of light verse whose sprightly humour
makes up for its slight metrical roughness. The imperfect but allowable
rhyming of "bear" and "appear" in the first stanza is entirely correct
according to the old-time standards which we ourselves follow, but we
fear that the delicate ear of a precise metrical artist like Rheinhart
Kleiner would object to its liberalism. "The Amateur Press" is
distinguished by an excellent review from the pen of Mrs. Renshaw. The
style is satisfactory, and the criticism just, making the whole well
worthy of the prize book it has secured for its author. "'Pollyanna,'
the Glad Book" is a meritorious and entertaining review by Mrs.
Griffith. "Hope," by Marguerite Sisson, is commendable for its use of
that noble but neglected measure, the heroic couplet. Mr. Daas'
concluding editorial, "Literature and Politics," is admirable for its
concise exposition of the United's new ideals, and its masterly
refutation of the common fallacy that political quarrels are necessary
to stimulate activity in the press associations.

_The Looking Glass_ for May is a journal unique in purpose and quality.
Edited by Mrs. Renshaw in behalf of her many gifted recruits, it reveals
a condition absolutely unexampled; the acquisition by one member of so
many high-grade novices that a special publication is required properly
to introduce them to the United. "To a Critic of Shelley," by Helen H.
Salls, is a long piece of beautiful blank verse, marred only by one
accidental rhyme. Miss Salls is evidently one of those few really
powerful poets who come all too seldom into Amateur Journalism,
startling the Association with impeccable harmony and exalted images.
The present poem grows even more attractive on analysis. The diction is
of phenomenal purity and wholly unspoiled by any ultra-modern touch. It
might have been a product of Shelley's own age. The metaphor is
marvellous, exhibiting a soul overflowing with true spirituality, and a
mind trained to express beautiful thought in language of corresponding
beauty. Such unforced ornateness is rarely met in the domain of amateur
poetry. We feel certain that Miss Salls has already become a fixed star
in the empyrean of the United. Exalted poetry of quite another type is
furnished by the work of our new Director, Rev. Frederick Chenault,
whose two exquisite lyrics, "Birth" and "The Sea of Somewhere," appear
in this issue. With little use of formal rhyme and metre, Mr. Chenault
abounds in delicate conceptions and artistic renditions.
"Retrospection," by Kathleen Baldwin, is likewise a poem of high order,
and of fairly regular metre, evidently following comparatively recent
models in technique. "The Faithful Man," by I. T. Valentine, shows
growing poetical talent, but is cruelly injured by the anticlimactic
line. Not that there is any anticlimax of sentiment, but the colloquial
mode of expression shocks the reader who has been perusing the more
dignified lines which go before. "The Stonework of Life" is an excellent
prose sermon by Joseph Ernest Shufelt, which displays great ability in
the field of metaphor and allegory. Mr. Shufelt possesses an admirable
style, unusually well fitted for didactic matter of this sort; indeed,
it is regrettable that he should ever depart from such congenial themes
and turn to the wild sensationalism which he shows in _The Badger_. In
demonstrating the beauties of morality and religion, he has few
superiors, and a task so appropriate to his genius ought to claim his
whole attention. True, his thoughts may follow strange courses in their
quest for truth and beauty, but were he always to curb them within the
bounds of probability and conservatism, as here, he would never lose the
confidence of his public, as he has done with his strange war theories.
"The Autocracy of Art," by Anne Vyne Tillery Renshaw, is the leading
article of the magazine. Herein the author proclaims the supremacy of
spiritual utterances over all restrictions created by the mind, and
urges the emancipation of the soaring bard from the earthly chains of
rhyme and metre. That the inward promptings of the poetic instinct are
of prime value to the poet, few will dispute; but that they may give
final form to his soul's creations without some regulation by the
natural laws of rhythm, few will agree. The metric sense lies far deeper
in the breast of man than Mrs. Renshaw is here disposed to acknowledge.
After this article, the perfectly regular stanzas of "Fellow Craftsman,"
_by the same author_, are refreshing. The typography and form of _The
Looking Glass_ leave something to be desired, but the riches within make
ample compensation for outward crudity.

_The New Member_ for May, edited by William Dowdell, contains but one
credential, yet doubtless paves the way for a resumption of the
enterprise so ably conducted by Miss Hoffman last year. "Melancholy," a
poem by I. T. Valentine, shows traces of the beginner's crudeness, yet
has about it a quality which promises much for the future of the poet.
"Lock-Step Pete," by Miss von der Heide, is an unusual poem with a
thoughtful suggestion embodied in its concluding stanza.

_The New Member_ bound with the May _Official Quarterly_ is a model that
should henceforth be followed as the nearest approach to perfection yet
beheld. Credentials, lists of prospective members, news of recruits, and
accounts of local clubs are here given in just and pleasing proportion.
"Bluets and Butterflies," by Carolyn L. Amoss, is a poem of great
delicacy and ethereal atmosphere. The solitary, tiny flaw is the
attempted rhyming of "Miss" and "yes." "War in America," by Annette E.
Foth, is a pleasant juvenile story. E. Ralph Cheyney's extract from his
essay on "Youth" is in many ways remarkable, and shows us that we have
another recruit of choice quality. His rather peculiar ideas are well
expressed, though their soundness is quite debatable. A few abnormal
characters like Byron and Shelley doubtless experienced all the
adolescent phenomena which Mr. Cheyney describes, but we believe that
the average youth is a copyist, and for the most part reflects his
environment. Radicalism and novel ideas arise just as much from blasÈ,
elderly cynics, who are tired of sane and sober conservatism. We have
been reflecting on Life for about twenty years, ever since we were five,
and have consistently believed that the wisdom of the ancient sage is
the true wisdom; that Life is essentially immutable, and that the
glorious dreams of youth are no more than dreams, to be dissipated by
the dawn of maturity and the full light of age. "Flowers on the Grave,"
a poem by J. D. Hill, has a commendable sentiment, and is remarkable for
its possession of only one repeated rhyming sound. Whether or not the
latter feature be monotonous, all must admit that the versification is
attractive. "We Are All Desperate!" is a striking philosophical fragment
by Melvin Ryder, which first appeared as an editorial in the _Ohio State
Lantern_. The conjectures are plausible, and the precepts sound. The
news items in this paper are all fresh and interesting, concluding an
issue uniformly excellent.

_The Pippin_ for May displays very favourably the high-school club whose
founding and maintenance are due entirely to the genius of Mr. Maurice
W. Moe. "The Coasters," by Esther Ronning, is the only poem in the
issue, but its quality atones for the absence of other verse. The
pleasures and perils of coasting are here portrayed with wonderfully
graphic pen, whilst the metre is, so far as technical correctness is
concerned, all that might be desired. However, we wish that Miss
Ronning were less fond of unusual rhyming arrangements. The lines here
given are of regular ballad length. Were they disposed in couplets, we
should have a tuneful lay of the "Chevy Chase" order; but as it is, our
ear misses the steady couplet effect to which the standard models have
accustomed us. "With the Assistance of Carmen" is a clever short story
by Gladys Bagg, derived from the same plot nucleus by Mr. Moe which
likewise evoked Miss Moore's story in the March UNITED AMATEUR. The
structure of the narrative is excellent, but we do not like the use of
the plebeian expression "onto" on page 3. There is properly no such word
as "onto" in the English language, "upon" being the preposition here
required. Webster clearly describes "onto" as a low provincialism or
colloquialism. "Little Jack in Fairyland," by Ruth Ryan, is a well
written account of a dream, with the usual awakening just as events are
coming to a climax. The style is very attractive, and the images
ingenious. "Getting What You Want," by Mr. Moe, is a brief one-act farce
illustrating the subtle devices whereby the sharp housewife bewilders
the good-natured landlord into the granting of extraordinary favours.
Had the heroine kept on to still greater lengths, she might have secured
an entire new house. The present number of _The Pippin_ is, save for the
absence of photographs, quite as pleasing as the previous number. We
trust that Mr. Moe's editorial prophecy may be fulfilled, and that we
may soon behold another issue which shall make us familiar with the new
faces brought by revolving time into the congenial Appleton circle.

_The Plainsman_ for July is the best number yet issued, the two
eleventh-hour contributions being very cleverly introduced. "Revised
Edition," by Mrs. Jeanette Timkin, is a versified piece of keen humour
and good metre, well illustrating the opening of the third or aerial
element to human travel. "To Bazine, Kansas" is a sprightly prose
account by James J. Hennessey of his journey from Boston to Bazine. "An
Incident of Early Days," by Mrs. John Cole, is presented in the same
attractive reminiscent style which makes her article in _The Trail_ so
readable and interesting. We are here told of the times when herds of
bison were common sights, and are given a pleasing account of the
formation of the Bazine Sunday-School. The articles by Mr. and Mrs. Ira
Cole show their appreciation of the amateurs who have visited them, and
conclude an issue of thoroughly entertaining quality.

_The Providence Amateur_ for June introduces to the United another local
press club of great enthusiasm. Owing to some unauthorized omissions
made by the printer, this first issue is scarcely representative of the
club's entire personnel, but that which still remains affords, after
all, a fair index to the character and ideals of the new organization.
The editorials by John T. Dunn are both frank and fearless. We detest a
shifty club whose allegiance wavers betwixt the United, the Morris
Faction and the National, and so are greatly pleased at Mr. Dunn's manly
and open stand for the one real United. The editor's opinions on
acknowledgment of papers is certainly just from one point of view,
though much may be said for the opposite side. When an amateur journal
has been prepared with unusual labour, and mailed conscientiously to
every member of the Association, the publisher has substantial reason
for resenting any marked display of neglect. We do not blame _The
Blarney Stone_ for its attitude on this question, and shall probably
follow its custom by mailing the next _Conservative_ only to those who
have acknowledged one or both of the previous issues.

_The Reflector_ for June is a British amateur magazine, transplanted on
American soil by its able editor, Ernest A. Dench. "Crossing the
Atlantic in War Time" is a pleasing account of Mr. Dench's voyage from
Liverpool to New York. "Chunks of Copy" forms the title of an excellent
though informal editorial department, while "A Brain Tank at Your
Service" teems with witticisms concerning various members of the Blue
Pencil Club. This magazine has no connection with any former journal of
like title, but seems likely to prove a worthy successor to all its
namesakes.

_The Trail_ for Spring is a new and substantial illustrated magazine of
20 pages and cover, issued by our well-known Private Critic, Mr. Alfred
L. Hutchinson. At the head of the contents are the reminiscences of the
editor, which prove extremely interesting reading, and which are well
supplemented by the lines entitled "The Tramp Printer." Also by Mr.
Hutchinson is the well written and animated account of Mr. Nicholas
Bruehl, whose artistic photographical work adorns the inside covers of
this issue. "Pioneer Life in Kansas," by Mrs. John Cole, is a
delightfully graphic picture of the trials and adventures of the early
settlers in the West. Being written from actual personal experience, the
various incidents leave a lasting impression on the mind of the reader,
while a pleasing smoothness of style enhances the vividness of the
narrative. "Memory-Building" is the first of a series of psychological
articles by our master amateur, Maurice W. Moe. It is here demonstrated
quite conclusively, that the faculty of memory is dependent on the
fundamental structure and quality of the brain, and may never be
acquired or greatly improved through cultivation. "Evening at Magnolia
Springs," by Laura E. Moe, exhibits the same type of literary talent
that her gifted husband possesses; in fact, this sketch may be compared
with Mr. Moe's well-known "Cedar Lake Days." The use of trivial
incidents gives an intense naturalness to the description. "Caught," by
Ruth M. Lathrop, is a brilliant short story whose development and climax
are natural and unforced. Fiction is generally the amateur's weakest
spot, but Miss Lathrop is evidently one of the few shining exceptions.
So thoroughly excellent is _The Trail_, that we hope to see not merely a
second issue, but its permanent establishment as one of the United's
leading magazines.

_The Tryout_ for June belongs to the National, but contains much matter
by United members. "Tempora Mutantur," a very meritorious short story by
Marguerite Sisson, affords an illuminating contrast between the solid
culture of 1834 and the detestable shallowness of the present time. This
prevailing frivolity and unscholarliness is something which the United
is seeking to remedy, and we are thankful indeed for stories such as
this, which expose modern levity in all its nauseousness. It is evident
that Miss Sisson is emulating the appreciative Anne Carroll of 1834,
rather than her obtuse and indifferent descendant. "The District
School," by Edna R. Guilford, describes very vividly the many petty
annoyances that beset the average teacher. While the picture is
extremely well presented as a whole, certain roughnesses of diction
nevertheless arrest the critical eye. "Onto," in the first paragraph, is
a provincialism which should be superseded by "to." Further on we hear
the teacher admonishing a youth to wash up some ink, and "wash it
_good_"! Would a _teacher_ thus express herself? "Well" is the adverb
here needed. "Too tired _to hardly stand_" is a seriously ungrammatical
phrase, which should read: "almost too tired to stand." We note that one
of the pupils' names is given as "Robert Elsmere." While it may not be
essentially a fault thus to use the name of a famous character of
fiction, we feel that the exercise of a little more originality might
have avoided this appropriation of Mrs. Humphry Ward's celebrated hero.
Miss Guilford's fundamental talent is unmistakable, but needs
cultivation and practice before it can shine out in full splendour.

_The Tryout_ for July contains "Cripple George," a beautiful short story
by Mrs. Rose L. Elmore, commendable alike in plot and technique. "A Day
in the Mountains," by Harry H. Connell, is a very interesting sketch
whose style exhibits considerable promise.

THE UNITED AMATEUR for March contains a literary department which will,
we hope, remain as a regular feature. "Tobias Smithers, Leading Man" is
Miss Ellen Moore's prize-winning attempt at constructing a story from a
very brief nucleus given by Mr. Moe. Miss Moore here exhibits a facile
pen and a just appreciation of humorous situations. "Ghosts," by Mrs.
Renshaw, well illustrates the vague superstitions of the negroes, those
strange creatures of darkness who seem never to cross completely the
threshold from apedom to humanity. "March," by ourselves, is a gem of
exquisite poesy, etc., etc., which we have here praised because no one
else could ever conscientiously do so. Line 10 apparently breaks the
metre, but this seeming break is due wholly to the printer. The line
should read:

    "The longer sunshine, and the shorter night."

"The Unknown Equation" is a love story by Mrs. Florence Shepphird.
Though the major portion is quite polished and consistent, we cannot but
deem the conclusion too abrupt and precipitate. Perhaps, being a frigid
old critic without experience in romance, we ought to submit the
question to some popular newspaper column of Advice to the Lovelorn,
inquiring whether or not it be permissible for a young lady, after only
a few hours' acquaintanceship with a young gentleman, to encourage him
to "put his arm around her yielding form and kiss her passionately"!!

THE UNITED AMATEUR for May is graced by "Reveille," a powerful and
stirring poem written in collaboration by our two gifted bards, Mr.
Kleiner, the Laureate, and Miss von der Heide. "Nature and the
Countryman," by A. W. Ashby, is an iconoclastic attack on that love of
natural beauty which is inherent in every poetical, imaginative and
delicately strung brain. In prose of faultless technique and polished
style, Mr. Ashby catalogues like a museum curator every species of flaw
that he can possibly pick in the scenes and events of rustic life. But
while the career of the farmer is assuredly not one of uninterrupted
bliss, it were folly to assert that Nature's superlative loveliness is
not more than enough to compensate for its various infelicities. No mind
of high grade is so impervious to aesthetic emotion that it can behold
without admiration the wonders of the rural realm, even though a vein of
sordid suffering ran through the beauteous ensemble. Of all our personal
friends, the one who most adores and loves to personify Nature is a
successful farmer of unceasing diligence. Mr. Ashby errs, we are
certain, in taking the point of view of the unimaginative and
unappreciative peasant. This sort of animal interprets Nature by
physical, not mental associations, and is unfitted by heredity to
receive impressions of the beautiful in its less material aspects.
Whilst he grumbles at the crimson flames of Aurora, thinking only of the
afternoon rain thus predicted, the man of finer mould, though equally
cognizant that a downpour may follow, rejoices impulsively at the pure
beauty of the scene itself, a scene whose intellectual exaltation will
help him the better to bear the dull afternoon. Is not the beauty-lover
the happier of the two? Both must endure the trials, but the poet enjoys
compensating pleasures which the boor may never know. The
personification and deification of Nature is a legacy from primitive
ages which will delight us in an atavistical way till our very race
shall have perished. And let Mr. Ashby remember that those early tribes
who placed a god or goddess in every leafy tree, crystal fount, reedy
lake or sparkling brook, were far closer to Nature and the soil than is
any modern tenant farmer.

_The United Official Quarterly_ for May has resumed its former
attractive appearance, and contains a very creditable assortment of
literary matter. "Atmosphere," by Mrs. Shepphird, is a thoughtful and
pleasing essay, whose second half well describes the individuality of
the various amateur authors and editors. "The Kingly Power of Laughter,"
by Louena Van Norman, is no less just and graphic, illustrating the
supreme force of humour and ridicule. Leo Fritter, in "Concerning
Candidates," points out some important details for office-seekers,
whilst Ira A. Cole, in "Five Sticks on Finance," gives some interesting
suggestions for economy. "Opportunity," an essay by Mildred Blanchard,
concludes the issue, and successfully disputes the noxious old
platitude, that "Opportunity knocks but once at each man's door." With
the _Quarterly_ is bound _The New Member_, reviewed elsewhere, the two
forming a tasteful and meritorious magazine.

_The Woodbee_ for July is an issue of unusual interest, revealing the
more serious and substantial activities of the prosperous Columbus Club.
The opening feature is a sonnet by Alma Sanger, "To Autumn Violets,"
which exhibits some poetical talent and a just sense of metrical values.
We are sure that the defective second line is the fault of the printer
rather than of the author. "The Blind Prince," by Henriette Ziegfeld, is
an excellent juvenile tale involving a fairy story. The only serious
objection is the undercurrent of adult comment which flows through the
narrative. Particularly cynical is the closing sentence: "'And here's
Mother,' finished poor Auntie with a sigh of relief." The ordinary fairy
stories told to children are bits of actual Teutonic mythology, and
should be related with a grave, absolute simplicity and naivete.
However, as a psychological study of the typical childish auditor, the
sketch as a whole is highly meritorious. We are inclined to wonder at
the possible meaning of the strange word "alright," which appears more
than once in Miss Ziegfeld's tale. It is certainly no part of our
language, and if it be a corruption of "all right," we must say that we
fail to perceive why the correct expression could not have been used.
"What's in a Name?" by Irene Metzger, is a clever sketch concerning
the silly modern practice of giving fancy names to helpless infants.
Glancing backward a little through history, Miss Metzger would probably
sympathize with the innocent offspring of the old Puritans, who
received such names as "Praise-God," and the like. Praise-God Barebones,
a leading and fanatical member of Cromwell's rebel parliament,
went a step further than his father, naming his own son
"If-Jesus-Christ-had-not-died-for-thee-thou-hadst-been-Damned"! All this
was actually the first name of young Barebones, but after he grew up and
took a Doctor's degree, he was called by his associates, "_Damned Dr.
Barebones_"! "Moonlight on the River," by Ida Cochran Haughton, is an
exquisite sentimental poem, each stanza of which ends with the same
expression. The atmosphere is well created, and the images dexterously
introduced. The whole piece reminds the reader of one of Thomas Moore's
beautiful old "Irish Melodies." That Mrs. Haughton's talent has
descended to the second generation is well proven by Edna M. Haughton's
"Review of the Literary Work of the Quarter." Miss Haughton is a
polished and scholarly reviewer, and her criticisms are in every
instance just and helpful. The editorial on "Miss United" is very well
written, and should be carefully perused by those in danger of
succumbing to the autumnal advances of that sour old maid, Miss
National.

                                             --HOWARD P. LOVECRAFT
                                                             Chairman.

Little Journeys to the Homes of Prominent Amateurs

Among the many amateurs I have never met in the flesh and realness of
Life, Howard Phillips Lovecraft, poet, critic and student, appeals to me
as no other recent "find" in the circles of amateuria has ever appealed.
And Lovecraft _is_ a distinct "find." Just why he holds a firm grip on
my heart-strings is something of a mystery to me. Perhaps it is because
of his wholesome ideals; perhaps it is because he is a recluse, content
to nose among books of ancient lore; perhaps it's because of his
physical afflictions; his love of things beautiful in Life; his ardent
advocacy of temperance, cleanliness and purity--I don't know. We
disagree on many questions; he criticises my literary activities; he
smiles at my suffrage theories, and disapproves of my language in _Chain
Lightning_. But I like him.

Howard Phillips Lovecraft has an interesting history, and this fact was
known to Official Editor Daas when he asked me to take a little journey
to the study-home of the Vice-President. "Don't stint yourself for
space" was noted on the assignment tab, and after glancing over the
biographical notes before me--I am sure that Daas has again exemplified
his quiet humor during a serious moment.

Lovecraft was born at 454 Angell St., Providence, R. I., on August 20,
1890. His nationality is Anglo-American, and under British law he can
claim to be a British subject, since he is a grandson in direct male
line of a British subject not naturalized in the United States. His
ancestry is purely English. On the paternal side he is a descendant of
the Lovecrafts, a Devonshire family which has furnished a great many
clergymen to the Church of England, and the Allgoods of Northumberland,
a history-honored family of which several members have been knighted.
The Allgoods have been a military line, and this may account for
Lovecraft's militarism and belief in the justice of war. On the maternal
side he is a typical Yankee, coming from East English stock which
settled in Rhode Island about 1680. Lovecraft is a student of
astronomy--it is a domineering passion with him--and this love was
apparently inherited from his maternal grandmother, Rhoby Phillips, who
studied it thoroughly in her youth at Lapham Seminary, and whose
collection of old astronomical books first interested him. Lovecraft
came from pure-blood stock, and he is the last male descendant of that
family in the United States. With him the name will die in America. He
is unmarried.

As he was about to enter college at the age of eighteen, his feeble
health gave way, and since then he has been physically incapacitated and
rendered almost an invalid. Being thus deprived of his cherished hope to
further his education and prepare himself for a life of letters, he has
contented himself with his home, which is just three squares from his
birthplace, and where he lives with his mother. And his home life is
ideal. His personal library--his haven of contentment--contains more
than 1500 volumes, many of them yellowed with age, and crude examples of
the printer's art. Among these treasured books may be found volumes
which have passed through the various branches of his family, some
dating back to 1681 and 1702, and methinks I can see Lovecraft poring
over these time-stained bits o' bookish lore as the monks of old
followed the printed lines with quivering fingers in the taper's
uncertain, flickering light. For Lovecraft appeals to me as a
bookworm--one of those lovable mortals whose very existence seems to
hang on the numbered pages of a heavy, clumsy book!

His connection with organized amateur journalism is of recent date. On
April 6, 1914, his application for membership in the United Amateur
Press Association of America was forwarded to the Secretary. Like a
great many of the recruits, Lovecraft was completely ignored for several
months. In July of last year he became active, and he has proven to be
an invaluable asset to the literary life of the Association. He is _not_
a politician. However, his literary activities had been prosecuted many
years before he had ever heard of the United. At the age of eight and
one-half years he published the _Scientific Gazette_, a weekly
periodical, written in pencil and issued in editions of four carbon
copies. This journal was devoted to the science of chemistry, which was
one of his earliest hobbies, and ran from March, 1899, to February,
1904. As in most cases, my knowledge of chemistry was acquired after I
had spent four years in high-school, and the fact that any boy should be
interested in that study at the age of eight and one-half years appeals
to me as something out of the ordinary. But Lovecraft was not an
ordinary boy. His second and more ambitious venture was the _Rhode
Island Journal of Astronomy_. This was at first published as a weekly,
and later changed to a monthly publication. This was carefully printed
by hand and then duplicated on the hectograph and issued in lots of
twenty-five copies. The _Journal_ was issued from 1903 to 1907, and
contained the latest astronomical news, re-written from the original
telegraphic reports issued from Harvard University and seen at the Ladd
Observatory. It also contained many of his original articles and
forecasts of phenomena. He owns a 3-inch telescope of French make, and
aside from amateur journalism, his one great hobby is astronomy. At the
age of sixteen he commenced writing monthly astronomical articles for
the Providence _Tribune_, and later changed to the _Evening News_, to
which he still contributes. During the present year he has contributed a
complete elementary treatise on astronomy in serial form to the
Asheville (N. C.) _Gazette-News_. Besides contributing a great many
poems and articles to the amateur press, editing _The Conservative_ and
assisting with the editorial work on _The Badger_, the appearance of Mr.
Lovecraft's work in the professional magazines is of common occurrence.
During the past year he has had charge of the Bureau of Public Criticism
in THE UNITED AMATEUR, where he has proven himself a just, impartial and
painstaking critic. That he will achieve a great popularity in the world
of amateur letters is a foregone conclusion, and I do not think that I
am indulging in extravagant praise in predicting a brilliant future for
him in the professional field.

I am acquainted with Howard Phillips Lovecraft only through
correspondence; I have never felt the flesh of his palm, and yet, I know
he is a man--every inch of him--and that amateur journalism will be
enriched and promoted to its highest plane through his kindly influence
and literary leadership.

                                               ANDREW FRANCIS LOCKHART

 THE UNITED AMATEUR    FEBRUARY 1916

The Teuton's Battle-Song

    "Omnis erat vulnus unda
    Terra rubefacta calido
    Frendebat gladius in loricas
    Gladius findebat clypeos--
    Non retrocedat vir a viro
    Hoc fuit viri fortis nobilitas diu--
    Laetus cerevisiam cum Asis
    In summa sede bibam
    Vitae elapsae sunt horae
    Ridens moriar."
                    --REGNER LODBROG

    The mighty Woden laughs upon his throne,
    And once more claims his children for his own.
    The voice of Thor resounds again on high,
    While arm'd Valkyries ride from out the sky:
    The Gods of Asgard all their pow'rs release
    To rouse the dullard from his dream of peace.
    Awake! ye hypocrites, and deign to scan
    The actions of your "brotherhood of Man."
    Could your shrill pipings in the race impair
    The warlike impulse put by Nature there?
    Where now the gentle maxims of the school,
    The cant of preachers, and the Golden Rule?
    What feeble word or doctrine now can stay
    The tribe whose fathers own'd Valhalla's sway?
    Too long restrain'd, the bloody tempest breaks,
    And Midgard 'neath the tread of warriors shakes.
    On to thy death, Berserker bold! And try
    In acts of Godlike bravery to die!
    Who cares to find the heaven of the priest,
    When only warriors can with Woden feast?
    The flesh of Sehrimnir, and the cup of mead,
    Are but for him who falls in martial deed:
    Yon luckless boor, that passive meets his end,
    May never in Valhalla's court contend.
    Slay, brothers, Slay! And bathe in crimson gore;
    Let Thor, triumphant, view the sport once more!
    All other thoughts are fading in the mist,
    But to attack, or if attack'd, resist.
    List, great Alfadur, to the clash of steel;
    How like a man does each brave swordsman feel!
    The cries of pain, the roars of rampant rage,
    In one vast symphony our ears engage.
    Strike! Strike him down! Whoever bars the way;
    Let each kill many ere he die today!
    Ride o'er the weak; accomplish what ye can;
    The Gods are kindest to the strongest man!
    Why should we fear? What greater joy than this?
    Asgard alone could give us sweeter bliss!
    My strength is waning; dimly can I see
    The helmeted Valkyries close to me.
    Ten more I slay! How strange the thought of fear,
    With Woden's mounted messengers so near!
    The darkness comes; I feel my spirit rise;
    A kind Valkyrie bears me to the skies.
    With conscience clear, I quit the earth below,
    The boundless joys of Woden's halls to know.
    The grove of Glasir soon shall I behold,
    And on Valhalla's tablets be enroll'd:
    There to remain, till Heimdall's horn shall sound,
    And Ragnarok enclose creation round;
    And Bifrost break beneath bold Surtur's horde,
    And Gods and men fall dead beneath the sword;
    When sun shall die, and sea devour the land,
    And stars descend, and naught but Chaos stand.
    Then shall Alfadur make his realm anew,
    And Gods and men with purer life indue.
    In that blest country shall Abundance reign,
    Nor shall one vice or woe of earth remain.
    Then, not before, shall men their battles cease,
    And live at last in universal peace.
    Through cloudless heavens shall the eagle soar,
    And happiness prevail forevermore.

                                 --H. P. LOVECRAFT

_Author's Note._

The writer here endeavours to trace the ruthless ferocity and incredible
bravery of the modern Teutonic soldier to the hereditary influence of
the ancient Northern Gods and Heroes. Despite the cant of the
peace-advocate, we must realise that our present Christian civilisation,
the product of an alien people, rests but lightly upon the Teuton when
he is deeply aroused, and that in the heat of combat he is quite prone
to revert to the mental type of his own Woden-worshipping progenitors,
losing himself in that superb fighting zeal which baffled the conquering
cohorts of a Caesar, and humbled the proud aspirations of a Varus.
Though appearing most openly in the Prussian, whose recent acts of
violence are so generally condemned, this native martial ardour is by no
means peculiar to him, but is instead the common heritage of every
branch of our indomitable Xanthochroic race, British and Continental
alike, whose remote forefathers were for countless generations reared in
the stern precepts of the virile religion of the North. Whilst we may
with justice deplore the excessive militarism of the Kaiser Wilhelm and
his followers, we cannot rightly agree with those effeminate preachers
of universal brotherhood who deny the virtue of that manly strength
which maintains our great North European family in its position of
undisputed superiority over the rest of mankind, and which in its purest
form is today the bulwark of Old England. It is needless to say to an
educated audience that the term "Teuton" is in no way connected with the
modern German Empire, but embraces the whole Northern stock, including
English and Belgians.

In the Northern religion, Alfadur, or the All-Father, was a vague though
supreme deity. Beneath him were among others Woden, or Odin, practically
the supreme deity, and Woden's eldest son Thor, the God of War. Asgard,
or heaven, was the dwelling-place of the Gods, whilst Midgard was the
earth, or abode of man. The rainbow, or bridge of Bifrost, which
connected the two regions, was guarded by the faithful watchman
Heimdall. Woden lived in the palace of Valhalla, near the grove of
Glasir, and had as messengers to earth the Valkyries, armed, mailed and
mounted virgins who conveyed from the earth to Asgard such men as had
fallen bravely in battle. Only those who fell thus could taste to the
full the joys of paradise. These joys consisted of alternate feasting
and fighting. At Woden's feasts in Valhalla was served the flesh of the
boar Sehrimnir, which, though cooked and eaten at every meal, would
regain its original condition the next day. The wounds of the warriors
in each celestial combat were miraculously healed at the end of the
fighting.

But this heaven was not to last forever. Some day would come Ragnarok,
or the Twilight of the Gods, when all creation would be destroyed, and
all the Gods and men save Alfadur perish. Surtur, after killing the last
of these Gods, would burn up the world. Afterward the supreme Alfadur
would make a new earth or paradise, creating again the Gods and men, and
suffering them ever after to dwell in peace and plenty.

                   THE UNITED AMATEUR

 OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE UNITED AMATEUR PRESS ASSOCIATION

 VOLUME XV    GEORGETOWN, ILL., APRIL, 1916    NUMBER 9

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC CRITICISM

=The Brooklynite= for January contains one of Rheinhart Kleiner's
characteristic poems, entitled "A Mother's Song". Mr. Kleiner's command
of good taste, harmony, and correctness requires no further panegyric
amongst those who know him; but to the more recent United members who
have not yet read extensively in our journals, his work may well be
recommended as undoubtedly the safest of all amateur poetical models for
emulation. Mr. Kleiner has a sense of musical rhythm which few amateur
bards have ever possessed, and his choice of words and phrases is the
result of a taste both innate and cultivated, whose quality appears to
rare advantage in the present degenerate age. This remarkable young poet
has not yet fully displayed in verse the variety of thoughts and images
of which his fertile brain and well selected reading have made him
master, but has preferred to concentrate most of his powers upon
delicate amatory lyrics. While some of his readers may at times regret
this limitation of endeavor, and wish he might practice to a greater
extent that immense versatility which he permitted the amateur public to
glimpse in the September =Piper=; it is perhaps not amiss that he should
cultivate most diligently that type of composition most natural and easy
to him, for he is obviously a successor of those polished and elegant
poets of gallantry whose splendour adorned the reigns of Queen Elizabeth
and King James the First.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Conservative= for January opens with Winifred Virginia Jordan's
"Song of the North Wind", one of the most powerful poems lately seen in
the amateur press. Mrs. Jordan is the newest addition to the United's
constellation of genuine poetical luminaries; shining as an artist of
lively imagination, faultless taste, and graphic expression, whose work
possesses touches of genius and individualism that have already brought
her renown in amateur circles. In the poem under consideration, Mrs.
Jordan displays a phenomenal comprehension of the sterner aspects of
Nature, producing a thoroughly virile effect. Words are chosen with care
and placed with remarkable force, whilst both alliteration and
onomatopoeia are employed with striking success. By the same author is
the shorter poem entitled "Galileo and Swammerdam", which though vastly
different in aspect and rhythm, yet retains that suggestion of mysticism
so frequently encountered in Mrs. Jordan's work.

James Tobey Pyke, a lyrical and philosophical poet of high scholastic
attainments, contributes two poems; "Maia", and "The Poet". The latter
is a stately sonnet, rich in material for reflection. Such is the
quality of Mr. Pyke's work, that his occasional contributions are ever
to be acclaimed with the keenest interest and appreciation.

Rheinhart Kleiner, our Laureate, is another bard twice represented in
the January =Conservative=. His two poems, "Consolation" and "To Celia",
though widely different in structure, are yet not unrelated in
sentiment, being both devoted to the changing heart. One amateur critic
has seen fit to frown upon so skilled an apotheosis of inconsistency,
but it seems almost captious thus to analyse an innocuous bit of art so
daintily and tastefully arrayed. "To Celia" is perhaps slightly the
better of the two, having a very commendable stateliness of cadence, and
a gravity of thought greater than that of "Consolation".

"The Horizon of Dreams", by Mrs. Renshaw, is a graphic and enthralling
venture into the realm of nocturnal unreality. The free play of active
imagination, the distorted and transitory conceptions and apparitions,
and the strangely elusive analogies, all lend charm and color to this
happy portrayal of the vague boundaries of Somnus' domain. Mrs.
Renshaw's rank as a poet is of very high tone, most of her productions
involving a spiritual insight and metaphysical comprehension vastly
beyond that of the common mind. But this very nobility of imagination,
and superiority to the popular appeal, are only too likely to render her
best work continually underestimated and unappreciated by the majority.
She is not a "poet of the masses", and her graver efforts must needs
reach audiences more notable for cultured than numerical magnitude. Of
Mrs. Renshaw's liberal metrical theories, enough is said elsewhere. This
Department can neither endorse principles so radical, nor refrain from
remarking that want of proper rhyme and metre has relegated to obscurity
many a rich and inspired poem.

"Departed", by Maude Kingsbury Barton, is a sentimental poem of
undoubted grace and sweetness, happily cast in unbroken metre.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Coyote= for January is adorned by no less than three of Mrs.
Winifred V. Jordan's exquisite short poems. "The Night-Wind" is a
delicately beautiful fragment of dreamy metaphor. There is probably a
slight misprint in the last line, since the construction there becomes
somewhat obscure. "My Love's Eyes" has merit, but lacks polish. The word
"azure" in the first stanza, need not be in the possessive case; whilst
the use of a singular verb with a plural noun in the second stanza
(smiles-beguiles) is a little less than grammatical. "Longing" exhibits
the author at her best, the images and phraseology alike showing the
touch of genius.

Other poetry in this issue is by Adam Dickson, a bard of pleasing manner
but doubtful correctness. "Smile" needs rigorous metrical and rhetorical
revision to escape puerility. "Silver Bells of Memory" is better, though
marred by the ungrammatical passage "thoughts doth linger". In this
passage, either the noun must be made singular, or the verb form plural.

"Prohibition in Kansas" is a well written prose article by Editor
William T. Harrington, wherein he exhibits a commendably favourable
attitude toward the eradication of the menace of strong drink. Mr.
Harrington is an able and active amateur, and takes an intelligent
interest in many public questions. His style and taste are steadily
improving, so that =The Coyote= has already become a paper of importance
among us.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Dixie Booster= for January is Mr. Raymond E. Nixon's =Capital City
News=, transferred to the amateur world, and continued under the new
name. With this number the editor's brother, Mr. Roy W. Nixon, assumes
the position of Associate Editor. This neat little magazine is
home-printed throughout, and may well remind the old-time amateurs of
those boyish "palmy days" whose passing they lament so frequently. By
means of a cut on the third page, we are properly introduced to Editor
Nixon, who at present boasts but thirteen years of existence. The gifted
and versatile associate editor, Mr. Roy W. Nixon, shows marked talent in
three distinct departments of literature; essay-writing, fiction, and
verse. "Writing as a Means of Self-Improvement" is a pure, dignified and
graceful bit of prose whose thought is as commendable as its structure.
"A Bottle of Carbolic Acid" is a gruesome but clever short story of the
Poe type, exhibiting considerable comprehension of abnormal psychology
as treated in literature. "My Valentine" is a poem of tuneful metre and
well expressed sentiment, though not completely polished throughout. The
third stanza, especially, might be made less like prose in its images.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Dowdell's Bearcat= for December is quaint and attractive in appearance.
The youthful editor has provided himself with a series of cuts of the
metaphorical "Bruin" in various attitudes and various employments, these
clever little pictures lending a pleasing novelty to the cover and the
margins. Judiciously distributed red ink, also, aids in producing a
Christmas number of truly festive quality. Mr. Dowdell's "Growls from
the Pit" is a series of editorials both timely and interesting, while
his "Did You Hear That" is a lively page of fresh news. This issue is
notable for Mrs. Winifred V. Jordan's poetical contributions, of which
there are three. "Life's Sunshine and Shadows" is a tuneful moral poem
whose rhythm and imagery are equally excellent. "Contentment" is brief
but delightful. "When the Woods Call" is a virile, graphic piece;
vibrant with the thrill of the chase, and crisp with the frosty air of
the Northern Woods.

The present reviewer's lines "To Samuel Loveman" contain five misprints,
as follows:

 Line  3 for =are=     read =art=
   "   5  "  =Appollo=   "  =Apollo=
   "   6  "  =versus=    "  =verses=
   "  15  "  =eternal=   "  =ethereal=
   "  18  "  =the=       "  =thee=

"Beads from my Rosary", by Mary M. Sisson, is a collection of well
written and sensible paragraphs on amateur journalism, which ought to
assist in arousing enthusiasm amongst many members hitherto dormant.
Editor Dowdell's pithy little epigrams at the foot of each page form an
entertaining feature, many of them being of considerable cleverness.
=Dowdell's Bearcat= will soon revert to its original newspaper form,
since Mr. Dowdell intends to make newspaper work his life Profession.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Inspiration= for November is a decidedly informal though
exceedingly clever personal paper issued by Miss Edna von der Heide as a
reminiscence of the Rocky Mount convention. Prose and verse of
whimsically humorous levity are employed with success in recording the
social side of the amateur gathering.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Looking Glass= for January is composed wholly of biographical
matter, introducing to the association the multitude of accomplished
recruits obtained through Mrs. Renshaw and others. In these forty life
stories, most of them autobiographical, the student of human nature may
find material for profound reflection on the variety of mankind. The
more recent members of the United, as here introduced, are in the
aggregate a maturer, more serious, and more scholarly element than that
which once dominated the amateur world; and if they can be properly
welcomed and acclimated to the realm of amateur letters, they will be of
great value indeed in building up the ideals and character of the
association. For this influx of sedate, cultivated members, the United
has Mrs. Renshaw to thank, since the present policy of recruiting was
originated and is conducted largely by the Second Vice-President.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Ole Miss'= for December is the most important of all recent additions
to amateur letters, and it is with regret that we learn of the
magazine's prospective discontinuance. The issue under consideration is
largely local, most of the contributions being by Mississippi talent,
and it must be said that the contributors all reflect credit upon their
native or adopted State.

Mr. J. W. Renshaw's page of editorials is distinguished equally by good
sense and good English. His attitude of disapproval toward petty
political activities and fruitless feuds in the United is one which
every loyal member will endorse, for nearly all of the past disasters in
amateur history have been caused not by serious literary differences,
but by conflicting ambitions among those seeking no more than cheap
notoriety.

Mrs. Renshaw is well represented both by prose and by verse, the most
interesting of her pieces being possibly the essay entitled "Poetic
Spontaneity", wherein more arguments are advanced in her effort to prove
the inferior importance of form and metre in poesy. According to Mrs.
Renshaw, the essence of all genuine poetry is a certain spontaneous and
involuntary spiritual or psychological perception and expression;
incapable of rendition in any prescribed structure, and utterly
destroyed by subsequent correction or alteration of any kind. That is,
the bard must respond unconsciously to the noble impulse furnished by a
fluttering bird, a dew-crowned flower, or a sun-blest forest glade;
recording his thoughts exactly as evolved, and never revising the
result, even though it be detestably cacophonous, or absolutely
unintelligible to his less inspired circle of readers. To such a theory
as this we must needs reply, that while compositions of the sort
indicated may indeed represent poesy, they certainly represent art in
its proper sense no more than do "futuristic" pictures and other modern
monstrosities of a like nature. The only exact means whereby a poet may
transmit his ideas to others is language, a thing both definite and
intellectual. Granting that vague, chaotic, dissonant lines are the best
form in which the tender suitor of the Muses may record his spiritual
impressions for his own benefit and comprehension, it by no means
follows that such lines are at all fitted to convey those impressions to
minds other than his own. When language is used without appropriateness,
harmony, or precision, it can mean but little save to the person who
writes it. The soul of a poem lies not in words but in meaning; and if
the author have any skill at all in recording thought through language,
he will be able to refine the uncouth mass of spontaneous verbiage
which first comes to him as representing his idea, but which in its
original amorphous state may fail entirely to suggest the same idea to
another brain. He will be able to preserve and perpetuate his idea in a
style of language which the world may understand, and in a rhythm which
may not offend the reader's sense of propriety with conspicuous
harshness, breaks, or sudden transitions.

"Flames of the Shadow", Mrs. Renshaw's longest poetical contribution to
this issue, is a powerful piece which, despite the author's theory,
seems in no way injured by its commendably regular structure.
"Immortality of Love" is likewise rather regular, though the plan of
rhyming breaks down in the last stanza. "For You" and "Sacrament of
Spirit" are short pieces, the former containing an "allowable" rhyming
of "tongue" and "long", which would not meet with the approval of the
Kleiner type of critic, but upon which this department forbears to
frown.

James T. Pyke's two poems, "To a Butterfly" and "Life and Time" are gems
of incomparable beauty. "Ole Gardens", by Winifred V. Jordan, is a
haunting bit of semi-irregular verse which deserves warm applause for
the cleverness of its imagery and the aptness of its phraseology. "The
Reward of it All", by Emilie C. Holladay, is a potent but pathetic poem
of sentiment, whose development is highly commendable, but whose
metrical construction might be improved by judicious care. "A
Mississippi Autumn" was written as prose by Mrs. Renshaw, and set in
heroic verse without change of ideas by the present critic. The metaphor
is uniformly lofty and delicate, whilst the development of the sentiment
is facile and pleasing. It is to be hoped that the original thoughts of
the author are not impaired or obscured by the technical turns of the
less inspired versifier. "My Dear, Sweet, Southern Blossom", dedicated
to Mr. and Mrs. Renshaw with Compliments of the Author, James Laurence
Crowley, is a saccharine and sentimental piece of verse reminiscent of
the popular ballads which flourished ten or more years ago. Triteness is
the cardinal defect, for each genuine image is what our discerning
private critic Mr. Moe would call a "rubber-stamp" phrase. Mr. Crowley
requires a rigorous course of reading among the classic poets of our
language, and a careful study of their art as a guide to the development
of his taste. At present his work has about it a softness bordering on
effeminacy, which leads us to believe that his conception of the poet's
art is rather imperfect. It is only in caricature that we discover the
poet as a sighing, long-haired scribbler of gushing flights of infantile
awe or immature adoration. Earnestness, dignity, and at times, sonorous
stateliness, become a good poet; and such thoughts as are generally
suggested by the confirmed use of "Oh", "Ah", "dear", "little",
"pretty", "darling", "sweetest flow'ret of all", "where the
morning-glory twineth", and so on, belong less to literary poetry than
to the Irving Berlin song-writing industry of "Tin Pan Alley" in the
Yiddish wilds of New York City. Mr. Crowley has energy of no mean sort,
and if he will apply himself assiduously to the cultivation of masculine
taste and technic, he can achieve a place of prominence among United
bards.

W. S. Harrison deserves a word of praise for his poem of Nature,
entitled "Our Milder Clime", wherein he celebrates the charms of
Mississippi, his native state. The lines contain an old-fashioned grace
too often wanting in contemporary verse. Other contributions to =Ole
Miss'= are Mrs. Maude K. Barton's "Something of Natchez", a very
interesting descriptive sketch in prose, and Dr. Rolfe Hunt's two negro
dialect pieces, both of which are of inimitable wit and cleverness.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Pippin= for February is the first number of this important
high-school journal to be issued without the supervision of Mr. Moe, and
its excellence well attests the substantial independent merit of the
Appleton Club. The city of Appleton forms the dominant theme in this
number, and with the assistance of seven attractive half-tone
illustrations, the publication well displays the beauty and advantages
of the pleasant Wisconsin town. Miss Eleanor Halls cleverly weaves into
conversational form much information concerning the remote history of
Appleton, emphasizing the superior character resulting from the select
quality of the settlers, and the early introduction of learning. Mr.
Alfred Galpin surprises many readers when he reveals the fact that
Appleton possessed the first of all telephone systems, a surprise
quickly followed by Mr. Joseph Harriman's illustrated paragraph telling
of the first street-car, also an Appleton innovation. Among other
articles, that by Miss Torrey on Lawrence College is of unusual
interest. "The Immortalization of the Princess", by Miss Fern Sherman,
is an excellent Indian tale, whose structure and atmosphere well suggest
not only the characteristic tribal legends of the red folk, but other
and more classical myths as well. Though Miss Sherman is not yet a
member of the United, one of such gifts would be heartily welcomed in
the ranks.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Plainsman= for December is the most substantial number of his
journal which Mr. Ira Cole has yet issued. First in order of importance
among the contents is perhaps the editor's own prose sketch entitled
"Monuments", wherein Mr. Cole reveals to particular advantage his
exceptional skill in depicting and philosophizing upon the various
aspects and phenomena of Nature. Mr. Cole's style is constantly
improving, though not now of perfect polish, it is none the less
remarkable for its grace and fluency. "To Florence Shepphird", also by
Mr. Cole, is a rather long piece of blank verse, containing many
beautiful passages. The author's skill in stately and sonorous poetry is
far above the common level, and his work has about it an atmosphere of
the polished past which that of most amateur bards lacks; yet the
present poem is not without errors. The passage (lines 10-11) reading:
"calm =days= that =knoweth= not dread Boreas' chilling breath" must be
changed so that either the noun shall be singular or the verb plural.
The double negative in line 23 might well be eliminated. Two lines whose
metre could be improved are the 13th and 50th. The final quatrain is
pleasing to the average ear, including that of the present critic;
though the very exact taste of today, as represented by Mr. Kleiner,
frowns upon such deviation from the dominant blank verse arrangement.
"On the Cowboys of the West" is a brief bit of verse by this reviewer,
accompanied by a note from the pen of Mr. Cole. The note is better than
the verse, and exhibits Mr. Cole's vivid and imaginative prose at its
best. "The Sunflower", a versified composition by James Laurence
Crowley, concludes the issue. There is much attractiveness in the lines;
though we may discover particularly in the second stanza, that touch of
excessive softness which occasionally mars Mr. Crowley's work. No one
can fail to discern the weakness of such a line as "You big giant of all
the flowers".

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Providence Amateur= for February is worthy of particular attention
on account of Mr. Peter J. MacManus' absorbing article on "The Irish and
the Fairies". Mr. MacManus firmly believes not only that fairies exist
in his native Ireland, but that he has actually beheld a troop of them;
facts which impart to this article a psychological as well as a literary
interest. The prose style of Mr. MacManus is very good, being notable
alike for fluency and freedom from slang, whilst his taste is of the
best. His future work will be eagerly awaited by the amateur public.
Edmund L. Shehan contributed both verse and prose to this issue. "Death"
is a stately poem on a grave subject, whose sentiments are all of
suitable humility and dignity. The apparently anomalous pronoun "her",
in the tenth line, is a misprint for "he". The piece ends with a rhyming
couplet, to which Mr. Kleiner, representing correct modern taste, takes
marked exception. The present reviewer, however, finds no reason to
object to any part of Mr. Shehan's poem, and attributes this concluding
couplet to the influence of similar Shakespearian terminations. The
prose piece by Mr. Shehan well describes a visit to a cinematograph
studio, and is entitled "The Making of a Motion Picture". In the verses
entitled "A Post-Christmas Lament", Mr. John T. Dunn combines much
keenness of wit with commendable regularity of metre. Mr. Dunn is among
the cleverest of the United's humorous writers. "To Charlie of the
Comics" is a harmless parody on our Laureate's excellent poem "To Mary
of the Movies", which appeared some time ago in =The Piper=. In "The
Bride of the Sea", Mr. Lewis Theobald, Jr., presents a rather weird
piece of romantic sentimentality of the sort afforded by bards of the
early nineteenth century. The metre is regular, and no flagrant
violations of grammatical or rhetorical precepts are to be discerned,
yet the whole effort lacks clearness, dignity, inspiration, and poetic
spontaneity. The word printed "enhanc'd" in the sixth stanza is properly
"entranc'd".

       *       *       *       *       *

=Tom Fool, Le Roi= bears no definite date, but is a sort of pensive
autumn reverie following the Rocky Mount convention of last summer. This
grave and dignified journal is credited to the House of Tillery, and if
typographical evidence may be accepted, it belongs most particularly to
that branch now bearing the name of Renshaw and having its domain in
Coffeeville, Mississippi. "Mother Gooseries from the Convention", by
Emilie C. Holladay, is a long stanzaic and Pindaric ode, whose taste and
technic are alike impeccable. The exalted images are sketched with
artistic touch, whilst the deep underlying philosophy, skillfully
clothed in well balanced lines, arouses a sympathetic reaction from
every cultural intellect. "The Carnival", by Mrs. E. L. Whitehead, is an
admirable example of stately descriptive prose mixed with aesthetic
verse. The long and euphonious periodic sentences suggest the style of
Gibbon or of Dr. Johnson, whilst the occasional metrical lines remind
the reviewer of Dr. Young's solemn "Night Thoughts". "Dummheit", by Dora
M. Hepner, is a grave discourse on Original Sin, describing the planning
of =Tom Fool, Le Roi=. Elizabeth M. Ballou's article entitled "Our
Absent Friend" forms a notable contribution to amateur historical
annals, and displays Miss Ballou as the possessor of a keen faculty for
observation, and a phenomenally analytical intellect. "Banqueters from
the Styx", Mrs. Renshaw's masterly description of the convention dinner
and its honoured guests from the regions of Elysium and elsewhere,
reminds the reviewer of the 11th book of the Odyssey and the 6th book of
the Aeneid, wherein the fraternizing of men with the shades of men is
classically delineated.

=Tom Fool= is a memorable publication, suggesting the old "fraternal"
papers, whose passing so many amateurs regret.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE UNITED AMATEUR for November contains besides the official matter a
small but select assortment of poems, prominent among which is "The
Meadow Cricket", by Jas. T. Pyke. It is impossible to overestimate the
beauty of thought and expression which Mr. Pyke shows in all his verses,
and the United is fortunate in being able to secure specimens of his
work.

"Remorse", by James Laurence Crowley, is one of the best samples of this
gentleman's poesy which we have yet seen, though Mr. Crowley insists
that one of the punctuation marks has been wrongfully located by the
reviser. Since the present critic prepared the manuscript for
publication, he is willing to assume full culpability for this crime.
There is genuine poetic feeling in this short piece; and it seems an
undoubted fact that Mr. Crowley with a little added restraint and
dignity of expression, is capable of producing excellent work. "List to
the Sea", by Winifred V. Jordan, is a delightfully musical lyric, whose
dancing dactyls and facile triple rhymes captivate alike the fancy and
the ear. "The Wind and the Beggar", by Maude K. Barton, is sombre and
powerful. "Ambition", by William de Ryee, is regular in metre and
commendable in sentiment, yet not exactly novel or striking in
inspiration. "Choose ye", by Ella C. Eckert, is a moral poem of clever
conception and correct construction.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The United Official Quarterly= for January opens with "A Prayer for the
New Year", by Frederick R. Chenault. Mr. Chenault is a poet of the first
order so far as inspiration is concerned, but his work is frequently
marred by irregularity of metre, and the use of assonance in place of
rhyme. The metre of this poem is correct, but the two attempted rhymes
"deeper-meeker" and "supremely-sincerely" are technically no more than
assonant sounds. Pres. Fritter writes very powerfully on our publishing
situation in this number; and his article should not only be perused
with attention, but heeded with sincerity and industriousness.

"Behind the Canvas Wall", by William J. Dowdell, is one of the cleverest
and most ingenious bits of fiction which the amateur press has contained
for some time. That it is of a nature not exactly novel is but a trivial
objection. The homely, appealing plot, and the simple, sympathetic
treatment, both point to Mr. Dowdell as a possible success in the realm
of short story writing, should he ever care to enter it seriously.
Another excellent tale is "The Good Will of a Dog", by P. J. Campbell.
The plot is of a well defined type which always pleases, whilst the
incidents are graphically delineated. "The Bookstall" is a metrical
monstrosity by the present reviewer. Mr. Maurice W. Moe, the
distinguished Private Critic, lately gave us the following opinion of
our verse. "You are," he writes, "steeped in the poetry of a certain
age; an age, by the way, which cut and fit its thought with greater
attention to one model than any other age before or since; and the
result is that when you turn to verse as a medium of expression, it is
just as if you were pressing a button liberating a perfect flood of
these perfectly good but stereotyped formulae of expression. The result
is very ingenious, but just because it is such a skillful mosaic of
Georgian 'rubber-stamp' phrases, it must ever fall short of true art."
Mr. Moe is correct. We have, in fact, heard this very criticism
reiterated by various authorities ever since those prehistoric days when
we began to lisp in numbers. Yet somehow we perversely continue to
"mosaic" along in the same old way! But then, we have never claimed to
possess "true art"; we are merely a metrical mechanic. "A New Point of
View In Home Economics", a clever article by Miss Eleanor Barnhart,
concludes the =Official Quarterly= proper.

But the =New Member= supplement, with its profusion of brilliant
credentials, yet remains to be considered. "Dutch Courage", by Louis E.
Boutwell, is a liquorish sketch whose scene is laid in a New Jersey
temple of Bacchus. Being totally unacquainted with the true saloon
atmosphere, we find ourself a little embarrassed as to critical
procedure, yet we may justly say that the characters are all well drawn,
every man in his humor.

"Ol' Man Murdock" is a quaint, and in two senses an =absorbing=, figure.
The rest of the issue is given over to the Muses of poesy. "The Saturday
Fray" is a clever piece by Daisy Vandenbank. The rhyming is a little
uneven, and in one case assonance is made to answer for true rhyme.
"Cream" and "mean" cannot make an artistic couplet. "The Common
Soldiers", by John W. Frazer, is a poem of real merit; whilst "Little
Boy Blue", by W. Hume, is likewise effective. Mr. Hume's pathetic touch
is fervent and in no manner betrays that weakness bordering on the
ridiculous, to which less skillful flights of pathos are prone. "The Two
Springs" is a pleasant moral sermon in verse by Margaret Ellen Cooper.
Concluding the issue is "The Under Dog in the Fight", a vigorous
philosophical poem by Andrew Stevenson.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Woodbee= for January is distinguished by Mrs. Winifred V. Jordan's
brilliant short poem entitled "Oh, Where is Springtime?" The sentiment
of the piece is an universal one, and the pleasing lines will appeal to
all. "Retribution", by Mrs. Ida C. Haughton, is a clever story, but the
present critic's extreme fondness for cats makes it difficult to review
after reading the first sentence. However, the well-approached
conclusion is indeed just. The "moral" is a pathetic example of
unregeneracy! Miss Edna M. Haughton's critical article is direct and
discerning; the Woodbee Club is fortunate in having among its members so
capable a reviewer. Editor Fritter likewise mounts the reviewer's throne
in this issue, proceeding first of all to demolish our own fond dream of
yesterday; =The Conservative=. Looking backward down the dim vista of
those bygone but memory-haunted days of October, 1915, when we
perpetrated the horribly plainspoken and frightfully ungentle number
whereof Mr. Fritter treats, we are conscious of our manifold sins, and
must beg the pardon of the liquor interests for shouting so rudely in
the cause of total abstinence. Pres. Fritter's critical style is a good
one, and is developing from month to month. His advocacy of lukewarmness
in writing is perhaps not so complete as one might judge from this
article; though his use of the cautious phrase "it is rumored" in
connection with a well known statement seems hardly necessary. Rigid
impartiality, the critic's greatest asset, is manifest throughout the
review, and we thoroughly appreciate the favorable mention not
infrequently accorded us. In passing upon the merits of =Dowdell's
Bearcat=, Mr. Fritter shows equal penetration and perspicuity, and we
are convinced that his rank amongst amateur reviewers is very high.

                                                  H. P. LOVECRAFT,
                                                             Chairman.

                   THE UNITED AMATEUR

 OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE UNITED AMATEUR PRESS ASSOCIATION

 VOLUME XV    GEORGETOWN, ILL., JUNE, 1916    NUMBER 11

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC CRITICISM

=The Coyote= for July opens with Harry E. Rieseberg's verses entitled
"The Sum of Life", whose structure is excellent as a whole, though
defective in certain places. The word "mirage" is properly accented on
the second syllable, hence is erroneously situated in the first stanza.
"A mirage forever seeming" is a possible substitute line. Other defects
are the attempted rhymes of "decay" with "constancy", "carried" with
"hurried", and "appalled" with "all". The metre is without exception
correct, and the thoughts and images in general well presented,
wherefore we believe that with a little more care Mr. Rieseberg can
become a very pleasing poet indeed. "The Philippine Question", by Earl
Samuel Harrington, aged 15, is an excellent juvenile essay, and
expresses a very sound opinion concerning our Asiatic colonies. It is
difficult to be patient with the political idiots who advocate the
relinquishment of the archipelago by the United States, either now or at
any future time. The mongrel natives, in whose blood the Malay strain
predominates, are not and never will be racially capable of maintaining
a civilized condition by themselves. "How Fares the Garden Rose?" is a
poem bearing the signature of Winifred Virginia Jordan, which is a
sufficient guarantee of its thorough excellence. "To a Breeze", also by
Mrs. Jordan, is distinguished by striking imagery, and displays in the
epithet "moon-moored", that highly individualistic touch which is
characteristic of its author. "Peace", by Andrew Francis Lockhart, is a
poem of excellent construction, though marred by two serious misprints
which destroy the harmony of the first and third lines.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Dixie Booster= for March-April is an exceedingly neat and clever
paper from the House of Nixon. "Spring in the South", a poem by Maude K.
Barton, opens the issue in pleasant fashion, the attractive images well
atoning for certain slight mechanical deficiencies. "Dick's Success", by
Gladys L. Bagg, is a short story whose phraseology exhibits considerable
talent and polish. The didactic element is possibly more emphasized than
the plot, though not to a tedious extent. Whether or not a rough draft
of a novel may be completed in the course of a single afternoon, a feat
described in this tale, we leave for the fiction-writing members of the
United to decide! Of the question raised regarding the treatment of the
Indian by the white man in America it is best to admit in the words of
Sir Roger de Coverly, "that much might be said on both sides". Whilst
the driving back of the aborigines has indeed been ruthless and
high-handed, it seems the destiny of the Anglo-Saxon to sweep inferior
races from his path wherever he goes. There are few who love the Indian
so deeply that they would wish this continent restored to its original
condition, peopled by savage nomads instead of civilized colonists. "The
Deuce and Your Add", by Melvin Ryder, is a bit of light philosophy whose
allegorical case is well maintained. "To a Warbler", by Roy W. Nixon, is
a meritorious piece of verse whose rhythm moves with commendable
sprightliness, though the first line of the first stanza might be made
to correspond better with the first line of the second stanza. The word
"apparent" in the last line, seems a little unsuited to the general
style of the poem, being more suggestive of the formal type of
composition. "Grandma", also by Mr. Roy Nixon, is a noble sonnet whose
quality foreshadows real poetical distinction for its author. "You", by
Dora M. Hepner, contains sublime images, but possesses metrical
imperfections. The general anapaestic or dactylic rhythm is much
disturbed by the iambic fourth line of the first stanza. The editorials,
jokes, and jingles in this issue are all clever, and proclaim Mr.
Raymond Nixon as a capable and discriminating editor.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Literary Buds= for February exhibits the amateurs of Harvey, Illinois,
after a long absence from the publishing arena. The present issue,
edited by Mr. Caryl Wilson Dempesy, contains matter of merit and
interest. "The Dells of the Wisconsin", by A. Myron Lambert, is an
interesting account of an outing spent amidst scenes of natural grandeur
and beauty. The author's style is fluent and pleasing, though a few
slight crudities are to be discerned. On page 1, where the height of a
large dam is mentioned, it is stated "that the water must raise that
distance before it can fall". Of course, "=rise=" is the verb which
should have been used. Another erroneous phrase is "nature tract".
"=Nature=" is not an adjective, but a noun; "=natural=" is the correct
word. However, this anomalous use of nouns for adjectives has only too
much prevalence amongst all grades of writers today, and must not be too
harshly censured in this case. On page 4 the word "=onto=" should be
supplanted by "=upon=", and the awkward phrase: "to be convinced that we
had ventured to a place that we did not know any dangers were connected
with", should be changed to something like this: "to convince us that we
had ventured to a seemingly dangerous place whose apparent dangers we
had not then noticed". "A Song of Love", by Editor Dempesy, is cast in
uniformly flowing and regular metre, but some of the words require
comment. "=Lover=" is not generally applied by bards to adored members
of the gentler sex, "=love=" being the conventional term. Likewise, the
phrase "heart which always softly does its beating" might well be
revised with greater attention to poetical precedent. Yet the whole is
of really promising quality, and exhibits a metrical correctness much
above the average. "The Operation" is a very witty sketch by Miss Clara
I. Stalker, with a sudden turn toward the end which arouses the complete
surprise and unexpected mirth of the reader. "The High Cost of
Flivving", by Albert Thompson, is a bright bit of versified humour
involving novel interpretations of certain technical terms of
literature. The swinging dactylic rhythm is well managed except where
the words "descending" and "ascending" occur, and where, in line 24, the
metre becomes momentarily anapaestic.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Looking Glass= for May is the final number of Mrs. Renshaw's
journal of introductions, and makes known to the association a group of
27 new members. One of the most interesting autobiographies is that of
Mr. J. E. Hoag of Greenwich, New York, whose friendly sentences, written
from the cumulative experience of 85 years of life, possess an elusively
captivating quality. Of the non-biographical matter in this issue, Mrs.
Renshaw's compilation entitled "Writing for Profit" deserves particular
perusal. This is well set off by the same author's colloquial lines,
"Pride O' The Pen", wherein the lethal taint of trade in literature is
effectively deplored. "Something", by David H. Whittier, is a thoughtful
analysis of conditions in the United, with suggestions for improvement.
"One Bright Star Enough For Me", by Mr. John Hartman Oswald of Texas, is
a pious poem reminding one of Mr. Addison's well known effort which
begins: "The spacious firmament on high". We doubt, however, if Mr.
Addison has been much improved upon, since several instances of
imperfect poetical taste are to be found in Mr. Oswald's lines. But
there are evidences of a great soul throughout the ten stanzas, and the
metre is in the main correct. What Mr. Oswald appears to require is a
thorough reading of the English classics, with minute attention to their
phraseology and images. With such study we believe him capable of
development into a poet of enviable force and sincerity.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Toledo Amateur= for April marks the welcome reappearance of Mr. Wesley
H. Porter's neat little journal after a year's absence. "A Story", by
David H. Whittier, possesses a tragical plot whose interest is slightly
marred by triteness and improbable situations. Of the latter we must
point out the strained coincidence whereby four distinct things,
proceeding from entirely unrelated causes, give rise to the final
denouement. The culmination of the aged father's resolve to kill his
enemy, the conditions which make possible the return of the son, the
presence of the enemy's hat and coat under the wayside tree, and the
storm which prompts the son to don these garments, are all independent
circumstances, whose simultaneous occurrence, each at exactly the proper
time to cause the catastrophe, may justly be deemed a coincidence too
great for the purpose of good literature. In an artistically constructed
tale, the various situations all develop naturally out of that original
cause which in the end brings about the climax; a principle which, if
applied to the story in question, would limit the events and their
sequences to those arising either directly or indirectly from the wrong
committed by the father's enemy. Since there is no causative connection
between the immediate decision of the father to kill his foe, and the
developments or discoveries which enable the son to return, the
simultaneous occurrence of these unusual things is scarcely natural.
Superadded to this coincidence are two more extraneous events; the
rather strange presence of the hat and coat near the road, and the
timely or untimely breaking of the storm, the improbability indeed
increasing in geometrical progression with each separate circumstance.
It must, however, be admitted that such quadruple coincidences in
stories are by no means uncommon among even the most prominent and
widely advertised professional fiction-blacksmiths of the day. Mr.
Whittier's style is that of a careful and sincere scholar, and we
believe that his work will become notable in this and the succeeding
amateur journalistic generation. The minuteness of the preceding
criticism has been prompted not by a depreciatory estimate of his
powers, but rather by an appreciative survey of his possibilities. "Say,
Brother", by Mrs. Renshaw, is a poem describing life in the trenches of
the Huns. The metre is quite regular, and the plan of rhyming but once
broken. Mr. Porter's prose work; editorial, introductory, and narrative,
is all pleasing, though, not wholly free from a certain slight looseness
of scholarship. We should advise rigorous exercise in parsing and
rhetoric. "Respite", by Edgar Ralph Cheyney, shows real poetical genius,
and the iambic heptameters are very well handled, save where one
redundant syllable breaks the flow of the last line. Even that would be
perfect if the tongue could condense the noun and article "the music",
into "th' music".

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Tornado= for April constitutes the publishing debut of Mrs. Addie
L. Porter, mother of =Toledo Amateur's= gifted young editor. Mrs.
Porter's "Recollections From Childhood" are pleasant and well phrased,
bringing to mind very vividly the unrivalled joys of Christmas as
experienced by the young. Wesley H. Porter, in "My Vacation", tells
entertainingly of his visit to the hive of the Woodbees last September.
The editorial and news paragraphs are all of attractive aspect,
completing a bright paper whose four pages teem with enthusiasm and
personality. It is to be hoped that other comparatively new United
members may follow Mr. Porter's example in entering the publishing
field; for individual journals, though of no greater size than this, are
ever welcome, and do more than anything else to maintain interest and
promote progress in the association.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Trail= for April must by no means be confused with Alfred L.
Hutchinson's professionalized magazine of identical title, for this
=Trail= is an older and emphatically non-professional publication issued
co-operatively by Dora M. Hepner and George W. Macauley.
Non-professionalism, indeed, seems to dominate the entire issue to a
