

=== sim_national-police-gazette_1892-09-03_60_782 ===

AUG 26 toa. ) (OPOK

INSURRECTION IN TENNESSEE.

Copyrighted for 1898 by the Proprietor; Ricsanp K. Fox, Franklin Square Publishing, Printing and Engraving Houce, N York
. New York City.

Béiter and Proprietor: NEW YORK, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 35 1892. | VOU DSR Lee 782.

Hie. tay

a ae id = F4

DOG, “DONK” AND DAISY.

A FRISKY PUP ADDS LIFE TOA CONEY ISLAND DONKEY, VERY MUCH TO THE DISCOMFORT OF A PRETTY GIRL,

THE NATIONAL PoLice GAZETTE: NEw York.

ESTABLISUEL 166

RICHARD K. FOX, Editor and Proprietor,

POLICE

GAZETTE PUBLISHING HOUSE,

SKS AND TAGES

Extravaganza and Burlesque,

Lester Gurney, the amiable secretary of the Actors’
Fund, was one of the star visitors at Patchogue this
summer, and his fishing exploits created almost as
much talk in that town as did the bathing exploits of

dances, at the Casino, but Stainville, the imitator, is
way init. Belle Hartz, soubrette and wit, daily airs
her dainty personality on Broadway.

Speaking of variety and serio-comics, J] suspect Louis
Harrison of having written this satirical verse on the
modern music hali craze.

No more librettos filed with puna,
Torn from Joe Miller's ancient pager;
No more of bouffes, absurd and quaint,
To give the dago dames his wages
For singing in a foreign tongue,
With little taste and mighty “ gali;”
We're comic, yet were virtuous—
We artists of the music hall.

Arme
Fow

Away with plays which quite fatigue
“The heads already tired by stocks;
Franklin Square, N.Y. IREN aunt a I
—_—<—_—— —————— SUMME ° The act which like the lightning shocks;
TUR v NDIN Then hear the enraptured public laugh,
FOR THE WEEK ENDING

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1892.

e Potice GAZETTE will be mailed to any address
a nce States or Canada at the following rates:

Idle Interviews---Farce and

And us before the curtain call;
That shows that “ we are in it” now—
We artists of the music hail

And what sensation more sublime

HARI

i Than listening to a roaring song,
I ith eFigskcvmenansrskonoaaes $5.00 Ladylike Legit. ion tung to wont wn
Bi QAR . 2.60 neta sipping ot Go egestas “t
wee month — “5 Close up. ye theatres, your doors! Stock
ios bey ee re jeusvesebnsanabanene om _ cup. Johto, Sour cat ,
nd all subscriptions to .
sinklin Kquare, New 7 Unless you ery tor help from ns—
- Se Prentiin banare, New York City. OUR MARY S FAM sed en iment oe mat
See neon ne ea “7
There are four ways by which money can be .

sent by mall at our risk—by a Post-Office
Money Order; by a Registered Letter; by
a Bank Draft; or by an Express Money
Order.

ENTERED AT THE POST-OFFICE, NEW YORK, WN. Y¥., AS SECOND-
CLASS MAIL MATTER.

SULLIVAN CORBET
McAuliffe vs. Myer,
Dixon vs. Skelly.

On ocean racers hastening home,
See all our histrionic legions!
Not e’en the news of that “hot wave”
Can keep them from these torrid regions;
Their backs on Switzerland they turn:
Throw Baedekers away. spurn Murray;
And to the season's daties rush
And crowd in an ecstatic hurry.

This one to London town has been

And bought « new play, full of fads,
In which the ladies ali talk slang,

The men say ‘‘Bah Janves!" and ‘‘Egads!”
Immaculate in morning dress.

He hopes through five acts to go walking
And doing such heroic deeds

As shall set all the critics talking.

And this one harries from Par-ee,
Where, while hobnobbing with Sardoa,
He chanced upon a mighty plot,
With murders and avductions biue;
He made the witty Frenchman write
This plot ont in a four-act “ hammer,”

BONG AND DANOE.

Minnie Seligman, Geraldine McCann, Mae Branson
and Della Fox at Lovg Branch.

The merry little soubrette now wooes the summer breeze,

And d jes in ah k underneath the spreading trees,
And In the surf she dally dips in jaunty bathing dress

That fits her like « glovelet—not an ineh the more or less.

She flutters in the breezes as she walks acrces the sand,

And all the dudes with open mouths in admiration stand.
But if a wave should come too near she shrinks in great dis-

may,
For she doesn’t like to bathe in that rough, horrid, liquid

Never in a case like that!

I overheard a conversation between two critics the
other night. One critic was Mr. Dorchester Hights, of
Boston, the other was Mr. Jack Park, of Chicawo.
They discussed a certain actor. “In his acting,” re-
marked the Boston critic, “I«liscovered with a single,
and, as it were. casual wlance, that there were lacking
most apparently the first requisites necessary for the
achievement of his ambition—and who shail say it is
not a noble one!—to become a high and exalted lumiu-
ary of the Thespian art. And so, in my critique, it be-
came incumbent upon mé, asa true exponent of my
convictions, to launch upon him my severest and
barsbest disapprobation, the which I did with no co-
Yert attempt to disguise in the most infinitesimal de-
gree my dissatisfaction with his interpretation of the
dramatist’s——”

**Yes,” observed the Chicago dramatic critic, ‘‘I
ripped him up the back myself!"

Daye Warfield, comedian, and Ed Thurnaer, agent,
had a lively discussion as to the relative importance
of actors and agents, at Asbury Park the other even-
ing. Finally, Thurnaer got angry,and with his two

BATI
Col.

GEN.

hundred and forty pounds of intelligence. blurted out Striker
At New Orleans, September And with it he intends to make contemptucuety : which b
5 6 and 7° A fortune ere the close of summer! ot gappese the actors draw the house!” see is in
‘ Oh! trunks on tranks, = wrearew 2 ; “No,” promptly and nen geen aoe Warfield, — 1
oO layers homeward all are bringing, ee comes to see the agent?” a 0.
LOOK OUT FOR THE TWO ees Sey ouat anaes garments quite as much p—mirgetaen has been red hot these days, so hot, ing acti
OF THE ‘POLICE GAZETTE. As on their acting nd nach ed in fact, that I have more than once thought of Mary them al
ey Now Uncle Sam muat cl bs 4 Anderson’s famous kiss. The play was “Pygmalion It isiz
wert er ata 8 en f and Galatea,” and I remember that kiss perfectly dur- ie felt.
i 84, out Sept. 7; That they their round of mimicry ota ante of eae. pata
On this occasion No. 7 : . With their new wardrobes may begin. ing one o @ac 4 th in-
No. 785, out Sept. 10, will fully When the great sculptor put his arm aroun e ror rei;
. i d give The poet is quite right. nocent Galatea every one knew that it was coming. Oliver |
yee ae # The theatrical season of 92-'93 is open. The fair-baired fop in full dress sitting in one of the Creek.
TH E ON LY AUTH ENTIC ACCOU N T Daniel Frohmes bas presented Hothern in “Lotter: boxes leaned far over the rail, in a balf-gasping sort of great 1
- blair,” at the Lyceum. way.” The:
Great Battles A. Y. Pearson exhibits “fhe White Squadron” at the Mary straightened herself somewhat as Pygmalion City ar
ae ree i Fourteenth Street. ne Wee began to loom up in the nace a “a 0 ie = -
Lou Weed launched “Jerry” at the Windsor. Then Pygmalion’s cranium za e
; J. M. Hill introduced Lillian Lowise in ‘Lady Lil,” to from the fair face. Oliver
Now is the time to give your News ~pposnsgad The audience gave a sigh of relief, and the young or for
the order to save you a copy of each one 0 P iailides party,
PETRA efent
Mex ulitie Myer Fight, and will be pub- wa dies ane P The be
: - ; er handsome ome..heg ocean waves load
lished Sept. 7; and No. 785 will contin Roche euuttnve te bees uae ett tate anh wet vA ; —
the Sullivan-Corbett and Duixon-Skelly In a dashing silken suit and hat. a e pri
Fights, and will be published Sept. 10. Pol meh ow laa Se , Gres
RD K. FOX. Publi Never further in a case like that! Y SS and y
RICHARD K, , Publishgr. S was
Ada Dare, Hattie Delaro and Xesia Carlstadt are militi
es _—_— among the préttiest girls in “Sinbad,” at the Garden \\\ | The
_— | Theatre. Jessie Villiers, who plays the old maid in wr. \\d , same
SERIO US LABOR RIOTS. _~-— | the extravaganza, is one of the most versatile actresses ‘oe j of 150
onany stage. I remember her excellent Ophelia when \ on, P Confe
The labor riots which began so disastrously some years ago she supported James Owen O'Connor, / ay Ya 18, a
in Homestead, Pa., appear to be spreading over be tena. ok ar a oe ae sn A oe sault
the country. Three States are now in a condi-

artist; Mark Sullivan, El Hefferman, Jim Sullivan,
with a diamond in his shirt, and the manuscript of
“A Fatal Gift” under his arm. 8. Goodfriend, the press
agent; EK, Quintus Brooks, the advertising agent; Ed
Alexander, the news agent, are in the summer throng.

Lee Harrison, Clara Qualitz and Beatrice Hamilton

tion of almost violent insurrection. Gov.
Flower has called out the militia to quell the
railroad rioters at Buffalo, N. Y,; the soldiers
are still doing active service at Homestead, Pa..

and the eastern part of Tennessee fs at the
mercy of a mob of 3,000 armed and desperate
miners. Life and property are imperilled.

As yet there has been no bloodshed in this
State, but much railroad property has been de-
stroyed. The prompt fesponse to the call to
arms undoubtedly prewnted furthor violence.
but the condition is Still so serious that the
Governor believer !t expedient to keep the en-
tire National Ge4rd in readiness to march to
the scene of ction at a moment’s notice.

In Hom-tead there was a brief skirmish be-
tween he strikers and the militia the other
dav Several rounds of shots were exchanged,
vut fortunately no lives were forfeited.

The situation in Tennessee, however. is more
serious. Up to the present time the troops
have been unable to successfully cope with the
striking miners. The soldiers have been routed

from their strongholds and the mob is in undis-
puted possession of the eastern part of the
State. They have captured Tracy City, Inman.
Oliver Springs and Coal Creek, driven the sol-
diers away and burned the stockades. The
governor has ordered out the entire State
militia and a serious conflict is looked forward
to, The miners are reported to have received
reinforcements from Kentucky and are pre-
pared to make a stubborn fight against the
authorities. They are all heavily armed and
are desperate men in an encounter. The out-
come of the struggle is awaited with great
anxiety.

Meanwhile, what are we coming to?

FARCE COMEDY,

the audiences of the Standard. De Wolff Hopper
again wends his artistic way in ‘“‘Wang,"’ at the Broad-
way.

Rosenquest will soon open the Bijou with Jennie
Yeamans. Dunlevy will soon brush the summer cob-
webs from the new Park. .

Lillian Russell and Marie Tempest are back from
Europe and air themselves on Broadway.

The enchanting extravaganzista, the sirenic song-
and-dance artiste, the bold, bad burlesquer, the fair
farce comedienne, the ladylike legit, are all getting
ready their wiles and their skirts, their make-up
boxes, their smiles, their diamonds, their stage mam-
mas, and their trunks for the impending season.
Dixey, in “The Mascot,” is still at Palmer's. Gilbert
in “Sinbad,” is at the Garden. Connor, in “Trip to
Chinatown,” is at the Madison Square. Gardver has
closed his Metropolitan season at the Union Sqnare.
Tim Murphy, clever comedian and good tellow, is in
town making sketches, giviug imitations, drawing
caricatures, drinking midnight coffee and smoking
strong segars.

“Donato, an ex-bull-fighter, was the man who may
be said to have originated the skirt dance, now so pop-
ular,” said Capt. Thompson to me the other afternoon.
“He had lost a leg, gored by a bull, in Spain, and when
he came to London, he sang on the stage fora living.
Enveloped in a big cloak, Donato stood on his one leg,
danced and postured, and folded the long flowing coat
about him as he danced and postured, much as Loie
Fuller and Minnie Renwood do to-day.”

Harry Neagle, just back from London. says Vaude-
ville is all the rage over there, and regular theatrical
business dull. He says “Lights of Home” bas one of
the best shipwreck scenes he ever saw.

John L. Sullivan’s Fighting Colers will be mailed
to any address on receipt of one dollar, These colors are very
handsome and will make an excellent ornament for club roeomea,
hotels and barber shops, sporting resorts, etc. Address RICHARD
Klin Square, New York.

have gone to bathe in champagne in Boston, and Ted
Peiper, Wemys Henderson, T. Henry French and Fred
Giles drink creme de menthe to their memory in Madi-
son Square. W. A. Brady is enthusiastic as ever over
Jim Corvett. Dan Shelby is busy over “The Black
Detective,” his new comedy-melodramatic venture.

Jim ton, with his songs. ia winning golden
opinigus on the road. E/ Stone is busy computing
the

mbined age of his stars, Henshaw and Ten
Broeck. Dave Warfield is supporting Annie Lewis.
Andrew Mack, the singer, is getting ready to star.
Edith Kenward, the dancer, indulges iu exotic slang.
Edith Oraske, in blue, and Francescina Puris, in white,

nightly gyrate on tip-toe in wild terpischorean whirls
atthe Garden. Virginia Harned and Ed Sothern occu-
pied a box atthe Fifth Avenue. Lizzie Derious Daly
does not win much applause, by her songs or her

BURLESQUE.

man in the box sank back in his chair with an ex-
pression of salvation written all over Lis countenance,

In a moment he got up and drew on his fur-trimmed
overcoat and turned up the collar.

Somebody over in the parquet circle sneezed, an
usher tiptoed up one of the aisles until he reached the
door, then ke placed both hands up against the crack
as if trying to shut off the draught.

The audience was shivering. Dr. Hamilton Griffin,
the actress's adopted papa, who was present in the au-
ditorium, sent for the engineer and ordered him to
get up wore steam. The theatre was chilly.

And 80 was—

STATEN ISLAND SCANDALIZED.
(SuBsEcT oF ILLUSTRATION. ]}

Mary M. Boothe, a young mulatto girl, employed as
waiting maid to Mrs. James H. Rogers, wife of the
proprietor of the Hotel Castidton. New Brighton, 8. 1..
recently swore outa warrant for the arrest of James
Latsing Rovers, son of James H. Rovers. on a charye
ofassault. Miss Boothe claims that the youth forced
an entrance to herroom. She ordered him out, when
he seized her and attempted to throw her to the floor.
Later he returned and threatened to shoot her. Rox-
ers says on the night in question he was under the 1n-
fluence of liquor and does not recollect what he dil.

Fox’s Sensational Series, the
Published. All transiations from the Frereh, and ali tilus-
trated with colored and other plates No, 1 Baccarat: No. %,
Fate of a Libertine: No 3 Her Love Her Ruin, No 4 Devil's
Compaet, No. 6 Paniine’s Caprice No 6 A Guilty Love, Ne. 7
Tie Demi-monde of Paris. Mailed-to any address on receipt

. 60 cents exch, by BichaRp K. Publisher
Bauace, Now Yorks” _ —

ciest novels ever

eeeéanaeoe?

ferme @

irs

lis

eer

E NATIONAL POLICE

GAZETTE: NEW YORK. | 8

IN KI ’

Armed Miners Attack
Four Towns and Shoot
Down Defenders.

HARD-FOUGHT BATTLES.

Stockades at Tracy City, In-
man and Oliver Springs
Taken and Burned.

BATTLE AT COAL GREEK.

Col. Anderson’s Little Garrison
Makes a Brave Defense.

GEN. CARNES TO THE RESCUE.

[SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.)

Strikes and riots are still rampant. The trouble
which began at Homestead, Pa., has spread. Tennes-
see is in a state of insurrection. The New York State
militia has been called to arms to quell the rioters at
Buffalo. At Homestead, Pa., the soldiers are still do-
ing active service, and there was a conflict between
them and the strikers a few days ago.

It isin Tennessee, however, where the greatest alarm
is felt. Fora week or more 3,000 armed miners were
in possession of the eastern part of the State, and ter-
ror reigned. They captured Tracy City. Inman and
Oliver Springs, and made a desperate attack on Coal
Creek. The battle at the latter place resulted in a
great loss of life. '

The miners met with but little resistance at Tracy
City and Inman, and after capturing the strongholds
and releasing the convicts they immediately burned
the stockades. Then they marched in a body upon
Oliver Springs. This stockade was defended by thirty
or forty soldiers and a few guards. The attacking
party, however, is said to have numbered 1,800. The
defenders saw the folly of resistance and surrendered.
The victorious miners took possession of all the arms,
loaded the convicts and soldiers on a cattle train and
started them off. Then the miners poured oil over the
stockade and burned it.

Great excitement was caused in Knoxville, Memphis,
and other cities by the outbreak, and the Governor
was denounced for not calling out the entire State
militia. :

The miners then marched on Coal Creek with th
same determination to wipe out the little garrison of
150 men commanded by Cul. Anderson,a brave ex-
Confederate soldier. The attack was made on August
18, anda fierce battle was fought. Assault after as-
sault was made, but the little garrison made a brave

AWAITING BULLETINS IN MEMPHIS.

and effective defense. Col. Anderson was asked to
surrender, but he curtly refused to do so. The sol-
diers had a Gatling gun, while the miners were armed
with acannon. The noise of the battle was heard in
the neizhboring villages, and the wildest kind of ex-
citement ensued. Wild rumors were afloat. It was
eaid that the little garrison had surrendered, and that
Col. Anderson had been lynched by the miners.

Later dispatches stated that Col. Anderson had been
captured under a flag of truce and threatened with
hanging unless he ordered bie command to surrender.
He, however, defied his captors, This report proved
true,

Mearwhile Gen. Carnes, with 700 volunteers and
regulars, was on his way to rescue Col. Anderson and
his garrison.

A dispatch, dated August 19, tells the following
story:

Brig.-Gen. Carnes, in command of the soldiers, has
routed the miners at Coal Creek. He thinks he can
maintain his advantage and enforce peace. He has
700 men, armed with regulation army rifies, one Gat-
ling gun and a small field-piece.

\ Elegant Photographs of John L, Seilivan and James
\orbets, cabinet sise, 10 conte each.

Col. Kellar Anderson has been surrendered to Gen.
Carnes by the miners. He is alive and weil.

Gen. Carnes passed through Knoxville yesterday
evening at 7.30 o'clock. This morning he advanced
on Coal Creek, capturing the town and several miners.
He notified the insurgents, who were camped near by,
that unless they surrendered Col. Kellar Anderson he
would put bis prisoners to death.

They promised to make the exchange, but inste:d of
doing so effected a sortie and intrenched themselves
in the town from which Gen. Carnes had temporarily
withdrawn.

Gen. Carnes advanced again and at 4 o’clock had
possession of Coal Creek and 2U0 prisoners.

He again sent forth a demand for Col. Anderson, and
this time the prisoner was produced unburt.

Col. Anderson bad been keptall night in the moun-

CUTCING THE WIRES.

tains aud the miners several times discussed the pro-
priety of hanging him. He was subjected to numer-
ous insults and indignities, but he bore himself coolly
and courageously.

There is intense excitement all over the State, and if
it is necessary there will be 20,000 voluntears massed
at Coal Creek by Monday.

At Memphis, while the fate of Col. Anderson, who is
a popular citizen of that place, was in doubt, the
streets were thronged with citizens anxious to start
for the seat of war.

A number of telegrams were sent to Gen. Carnes ad-
vising him to hang every miner he could lay hands on
if Anderson was harmed.

It is believed that the insurrection is practically
quelled, but the troops will not be withdrawn until or-
der is absolutely assured. °

Fort Anderson has been relieved by thearriva) of th
reinforcements and is no Jonger in a state of siege. On
the contrary the tablesare turned and the miners in-
stead of being hunters of men are the hunted. Gen.
Carnes made a forced march from Offuts Station,
north of Clinton, to the neighborhood of the beleag-
ured camp, reaching there at daybreakin the rear of
the line of rabble which marked the miner's lines.

On his arrival on the ground a wild scene of confu-

| DEPARTURE OF THE

NEW YORK BOYS

sion ensued. Scouts in advance of the line had either
failed to do their duty or been captured, and the posi-
tion of the miners was not known. The forwaré move-
ment was very cautiously made. Gen. Carnes and bis
heterogeneous army of citizens and about three hun-
dred militia left the train at Offutts Station, fearing a
trap somewhere on the railroad, and pushed forward
across the country.

GEN. CARNES’ DIVISION SURPRISED.

As they cautiously felt their way amid the rocks and
rushing streams of the mountains a sudden explosion
from a bomb of dynamite startled the men as they
shook the clogging mud from their overburdened
shoes or wrung the acc: mulated rain-water from their
sodden clothing. From Offutts to Coal Creek, by the
route taken by the co!umn of Gen. Carnes, was a la-
boriogs climb, and as laborious a descent of a moun-
tain pase as the foothilis of the Cumberland range
affords any where, and is good eight miles, as you go
but “one thousand as you slip.”

As the head of the column cautiously pushed out
from the cloud of fog and darkness which had envel-
oped itas it came down the side of the mountain, a
shot rang out. A young soldier named Walthall had
gotten upon a rock to try and get a view, when he was
struck by a ball and fell headlong among his comrades
a corpse.

A body of miners had chosen a sheltered rock which
formed a natural defense, and from its shelter fired
a volley which caused the only casaalty. Curiously
enoysh, the miners had taken no other provision to
prevent the rear attack, their outposts being the vol-
unteer service of a few men who felt the dangers of
an exchange of clothing which capture would mean.
A mad rush was made for the cover of the rocks and
trees of the mountains.

Not all were so craven, fora desultory firing began
and was kept up for a while. Oué or two of the militia-
men were struck by their oullets. Eighteen of the
miners were captured, the balance having escaped in-
to the*woods.

Gen. Carnes’s advance guard at once formed intoa
charging line, and after receiving a scattering volley
from a few who failed to take the first opportunity of
escaping from the rapidly approaching arm and hand
of the law, two of the Sheriff's posse, John Walthall,
» clerk in the offices of the East Tennessee, Virginia &
Georgia road, of Kuoxville, and Bosh Givens, also of
Knoxville, were shot and killed.

This detachment had a most arduous task to per-
forta in crossing the mountain at night in the midst of
a heavy rain and lowering clouds of mist, which wade
itimpossible to distinguish objects more than a few
feet away, with an unknown and supposedly alert
enemy surrounding them. Every rock, bush and tree
mtght be the hiding-place of an enemy, and there was
an almost certain fight in front of them when they
should arrive in the locality of Camp Anderson. It
was under cover of night that they were enabled to
reach their destination almost without disaster.

At Clinton, before leaving for the immediate front,
they were subjected to innuendoes and threats, with
numérous bits of information that the way was lined
with dynamite and strong bodies of well-armed and
disciplined miners swarming on every side.

Two bodies of dead miners were found after the
skirmish, and several wounde’ were taken in and
cared for. With these exceptions, the casualties among
the miners are unknown.

The Riots at Buffalo, N. Y.

The strike of the switchmen in the Cheektowaga
freight yards at Buffalo, N. Y., resulted in Gov. Flower
calling out the State militia. The strikers are said to
number from 300 to 400 men, but their sympathizers
are reported to number thousands. On Aug. 15 riot-
ing began. Trains.were blockaded and freight cars
burned. Sheriff Beck called on the Sixty-fifth Regi-

FOR BUFFALO,

ment of Buffilo. and the soldiers took possession of
the yards on Aug. 16. The situation became serious.
Trains were stalled, and a conflict between the author:
ities and the rioters was imminent. The present force
was inadequate to guard the railroad property, and
finally the Snerift and Mayor appealed to t! e Gover-
por. The latter orderad the entire State militia under
arms, and 8,000 armed soldiers were at once dis
patched to the scene of the riot. Among the regiments
who left for Buffalo on Aug. 18 were the Twelfth,
Seventy-first, Troop A and Twenty-second of this city
and the Thirteenth and Twenty-third of Brooklyn. All
the other regiments were held in readiness.

The presence of the militia at Buffalo broke the
blockade and trains began to run with more regu-
larity. The people of Buffalo aleo rested more com-
fortably. The yards and the miles of tracks were
placed ander military guard. There was no conflict
between the-strikers and soldiers, but the latter were
compeed to submit to insults and taunts. On one or
two occasions the militia charged the mob with fixed
bayonets in order to disperse them. No shots were
fired, and with the exception of two soldiers killed by
accident, no casualties were reported. One soldier was
shot by the accidental discharge of a rifle in the hands
of a comrade, and another was crushed to death by a
freight car.

Since the militia took possession of the city there
has been no outbreak, but the situation is still very
wrave,and the authorities deem it expedient to keep
8,000 suldiers on the spot. and bold the remainder of
the Nat onal Guard in readiness for an emergency.

The Trouble at Homestead, Pa.

The trouble at Homestead, Pa., has not been settled.
The militia are still on guard,and on the night of

IN AMBUSH.

Angust 17 there was a sharp but brief conflict between
the soldiers and the strikers. Ou the evening in ques-
tion, aga freight train was crossing over the ‘‘Pem-
icky” bridge at Humestead, going south, some one on
the train opened fire on.the steamboat Little Bill,
which was moored this side of the bridge. Several
shots were fired in rapid succession. Those persons
who were in the pilot house narrowly escape: death.

The soldiers guarding the boat opened fire on the
train. shine provisional guard on the other side of the
river ned in the fire,and so did the other pickets
posted inside the mill. A volley of lead poured into
the train, but as far as could be learned no serious
damage resulted.

Provost Marshal Major Crawford heard the firing
and started with a squad of men for the mill. They
went on a double quick and soon were at the scene.

CAPTURE OF ANDERSON.

When the squad arr ved fully 1,000 of the men in the
mill were crowded along the shore.

They were greatly excited. The light from the coke
ovens across the river lit up the scene. Aboard the
Little Bill and the Tide soldiers were hurrying to and
fro, each with bis gun at half cock.

Across the river orders could be heard, clear and
plain, as they were given to the provisional guard, and
occasionally a shot was fired. After a search along the
tracks the Marshal recalled his men and they returned
to camp.

DOG, “DONE” AND DAISY.”
(Supsxct or ILLvseTRaTion.|

One afternoon recently a pretty girl hired a donkey
at Cone’ Island for the purpose of taking a ride a:eng
the beach. Everything went lovely until a naughty
dog began to snap at the heels of the patiént beast of
burden. Then things were somewhat lively. His
donkeyship started down the beach ata Nancy Hanks
gait, followed by the pup, a good second. The race
was only brought toa climax when the fair rider was
dumped intoasandbank. Fortunately, she was in-
juréd nothing more than a general shaking up.

“ae aliianiaie

Cabinet Photographs of Jack McAuliffe and Biliy
Myer, mailed sny address, on recelpt of 10 cents sech.

+ ee eee

| THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE:

NEW YORK.

WRAY

a was

lil
TUT
HLT LLELLELEL! ETT HTT j
ALiLAS ILLS pists. 4d 4d ‘

ADA HENRY,
A BEWITCHING,

FASCINATING AND FINE LIMBED STAGE FAVORITE OF PRETTY FACE AND CATCHING WAYS,

SEPT, 8, 1892. THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. “

_ ES CN Sener

CARRIED AWAY BY TWO BRUTES.

LYDIA MELLER AND IRENE BLIZZARD, TWO CHESTER, PA., GIRLS, SAY THEY WERE
DRUGGED AND ABDUCTED BY A COUPLE OF RUFFIANS.

STATEN ISLAND SCANDALIZED.

MARY M. BOOTHE CHARGES YOUNG JAMES L. ROGERS WITH ENTERING HER ROOM
AND ASSAULTING HER, AT HOTEL CASTLETON, NEW BRIGHTON.

A CIGARETTE FIEND'S ACT.

HARRY SLATER, A SIXTEEN-YEAR-OLD POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y., YOUTH, ATTEMPTS TO
CHLOROFORM MRS. 0. E. NOBLE WHILE SHE SLEEPS.

i iT
wd i |

ie iy ii

li be

SUICIDE OF GEN. DUNN. : HE HUGGED MISS KELSER

HZ WAR VETERAN AND PROMINENT POLITIOIAN, PROMPTED BY A LOVER'S QUAB- WITHOUT THAT BASHFUL YOUNG LADY’S CONSENT, AND NOW OHARLES PIERCE,
BEL, TAKES HIS OWN LIFE IN DENVEB, OOLOBADO, OF ABSEOON, N. J., IS UNDEB BONDS TO REFRAIN FROM DOING 8O AGAIN.

6 THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

SHIND TH SCENES

A Love-Sick Texas Couple
Attempt Suicide.

PRETTY MATTIE’S SHAME.

Asbury Park’s Latest Naughti-
ness Comes to Light.

SOME OTHER SOCIETY SHOCKS.

WO prominent society
people attempted sui-
cide in Fort Worth,
Tex., on Friday even-
ing Of last week, by
swallowing 3 yrains
of morphine. They
were Eugene P.
Thorne, a traveling
salesman for a San
Antonio house and a
married man, and
Miss Mary West, a
Hillsboro, Tex., belle,
who had been visiting
friends in Fort Worth
for some time past.
The two had fallen desperately in love some months
ago, but on account of Thorne’s family ties they could
not marry. On the night iv question they went to the
Arlington Inn, where they represented themselves as
man and wife, and were given a room, They apparent-
ly retired, but later at night were found unconscious
from the effects of the poison. The work of reviving
them was carried on for several hours, and they were
finally pronounced out of danger.

The affair has caused intense excitement in society

circles.

Mexico, a small villaze of 250 inhabitants in Miami
County, Ind., is greatly excited over a scandal. John
G. D. Bender is a wealthy farmer living near the town,
and is one of the most prominent and widely known
inthecounty. He has a lovely daughter, Mattie, sev-
enteen years old, who basalways been a reigning belle
in socialcircles where she moved. Her mother died
fourteen years ago. Mattie became her father’s house-
keeper as soon as age permitted, and bas in many
other ways shown herself to be of lovable disposition
and womanly traits.

For some time past she has been taking treatment of
Dr. A. J. Dodds of Mexico, for rheumatism. She was
confined to her room by frequent attacks of the ill-
ness. A few days avo ber neighbor, Mra. Ada Juukins,
called in, during a spell of sickness, tou do the house-
work. :

She found tbe girl suffering from severe hemor-
rhage. A physician was summoned and beat once e-
clared thata childbirth had occurred. The girl was
vehement in her denials, but at last broke down.
Through ber sobs she confessed that she had become
a mother, and attributed her ruin to a young man
named William Karnes, with whom she had formerly
keptcompany. Thechild, she said, bad been borna
week previously, aud had been thrown among some
old clothes in an adjoining closet. A search revealed
the body of the dead infant tightly wrapped in a

MATTIE TELLS OF HER SHAME,

blanket lying in a dark corner. It was a fully devel-
oped child, and had apparently been born alive, de-
spite the young mother's declaration to the contrary.
Mrs. Junkins’ husband placed the body in a box and
buried itin the garden. Even then nothing was said
about the matter, and it was through the mereat acci-
dent and a neighbor's investigation of certain sus-
picious actions that the truth was learned. The girl's
father is crazy over the unfortunate affair. Coroner
Grandstaff is investigating the matter.

Outside of the occasional sensations created by
decollette bathiug suits, Asbury Park, N. J., some-
times has a scandal or two to talk about. Just now itis
discussing a new and juicy one.

Charley Bogart is a blacksmith by trade. During
the summer he runs a line of stages from in front of
Henry Steinbach’s store to Shark river and the fac-
tory that lies south of Asbury Park. For about seven
weoks past Charley has been anything but regular in
his night hours. After finishing his snpper he was in
the habit of starting for some unknown desalination.
to return early in the morning to feed bis horses and
prepare for the day’s work.

After a time Mrs. Bogart naturally became worried
over these all-night excursions. Questioning Bogart
was fruitiess, and the only way to discover anything

ld send in their Orders at Once for
OBRIES No. f, on fy Sar-mente of Paris.”
Arvemean Fee, Pebtehar

The Trade
St ate

TRIED SUICIDE IN FORT WORTH.

was to constitute herself a detective force of one to
investigate the case. Mrs. Bogart secured the service
of Mrs. Jennie Soutbard, her sister, and another rela-
tive as assistants. A few days since they located Bo-
gart in a little house of two rooms in West Park.

CAUGHT HER HUSBAND AND HIS PARAMOUR.

There was another inmate of the West Park house,
and that was Mary Weeks, a woman who is a strauger
in Asbury Parl. Mary didu’t appear to be working for
a living. gig

The three feminine detectives meditated how they
should entrap Bovartand Mary Weeks. Mrs. South-
ard and Mre. Southard’s sister-in-law went to the
house where this precious pair lodged one Monday
evening recently. Bogart was enuvaged in the inno-
cent occupation of taking bis boots off. Then the am
ateur Pinkertons returned home, and, on the adwte of
a policeman, hunted up Justice Borden, who was in
bed. His Honor dressed himself for the occasion
and made out a warrant to arrest Bogart and his mis-
tress.

Officers Bowers and Hulbert served the warrant.
They found the house door locked. Officer Powers
turned the knob, and getting his heavy shoulder
against the door, burstit open. The stave man and
the girl were sleeping in the room. The pair were
brought before Justice Borden. Both prisoners
pleaded guilty. The Justice held Bogart in $100
bonds on the charge of fornication, and the woman in
$200 for keeping a disorderly house.

a Fe

An elopement in high social circles has just been
made public in Pittston, Pa. Charles Wintle married
Lizzie Howell some eight years ago. Nothing seemed
to darken their domestic happiness until a little over
a week azo, when Mrs. Wintle’s cousin, a man named
Stackhouse, visited him.

He was welcomed at the Wintle residence, and the
husband entertained no suspicion of anything wrong
until last Wednesday, when Mrs. Wintle, after taking
the two children to her mother's, announced her in-
tention of going up in the country to visit a relative.
The cousin disappeared simultaneously. Four two

WHY THR ARTIOE WARTS

days the husband had no uneasiness. Then he made
inquiry of the relative mentioned, and was told that
his wife had not been seen. Later he went to Wilkes-
barre and learned that the missing couple had to-
gether hired a vehicle from a liveryman in that town
and driven in the direction of Scranton. Stackhouse
lived in Philadelphia and has a wife and two children.

Channing W. Coleman. a real estate lawyer witb an
office at No. 80 Dearborn street, Chicago, is called
upon to defend a $100,000 damage suit brought in
the Circuit Court by Theodore Kytka, an artist for one
of the morning papers.

Mr. Kytka isa young man who has been connected
with Chicago newspapers for several years. He came
from the South, where he was engaged in the same
work. He is married, and has a daughter five years of
age. Until recently he lived with his family in the
little suburban town of Avondale.

Mr. Coleman is said to be a man of considerable
property and worth $100,000. He bas been practic-
ing law in Chicago for many years,and he bas also
been engaged in the real estate business. He is a
bachelor.

This suit is brought for the alleged alienation of the
affections of Mrs. Kytka.

Mr. and Mrs. Kvtka were married about eight years
ago. Itis said that the wife knew Coleman before her
marriage with the artist. Kytka’s business took him
from home occasionally, and during such periods it is
alleged Coleman and Mrs. Kytka renewed their ac-
quaintance. Coleman, it is said, expended money for
the artist’s family, presented the wife with dresses
and looked much after the little girl. ‘The latter, it is
said, fell into the ,habit of calling Coleman “papa,”
and so the life of Ky tka was made unhappy. It is fur-
ther alleged that at one time Mrs. Kytzka employed an
attorney to secure a divorce for her from Kytkaon the
ground of cruelty. Aji this led to frequent quarrels
between man and wife, and the close came about two

ELOPED WITH A MARRIED MAN.

months ago. Mrs. Kytka left home and went to Rock-
ford, itis said. Kytka will have numerous witnesses,
itis declared, to prove that Coleman waa guilty of im-
propriety with his wife. Allegations are made that
Mrs. Kytka’s mother has turned against her and will

assist the young artist to assert his rights in a court of
justice. Mr. Kytka was engaged in the anarchist t ia)
end is well known amoug Dewspaper men.

"Squire Manning, of a Ciucinuati court, listened to a
touching story of love and betrayal the other day.
Constable Johuson of Sharpsburg, Highland County,
O., entered the Magistrate's office accompanied by bis
sixteen-year-old daugbter, Esther. To ‘Squire Man-
ning and Attorney Lundy the young girl told a very
romautic story of bow she bad been betrayed and de-
serted by Harry D. Jobnson, alias Burns, who until re-
cently was engaged as a traveling salesmen for the
People’s Wholesale Grocery Cowpany, at 49 West
Third street, Cincinvati. After answering a few pre-
liminary questions asked by Attorney Lundy and the
Magistrate, Miss Johnson, who is a very modest and
retiring young girl, told the story of her alleged
wrobpgs.

“I met Burns,” she said, ‘in this city, about a year
and a half ago, and was introduced to him by a mut-
ual friend, who resid:s in Covington. He invited me
to accompany him to Eichler's for supper, and I ac-
cepted the invitation. While we where engaged in
eating our repast he made strong protestations of how
much he loved me,and asked me to marry him. I
told him I would have to know him longer, and would
also have to get the consent of my parents. I prom-
ised to think the matter over, however, and told bim I
would write and let him kuow my final decision in the
matter. When I spoke to my father, who at present
has charge of the farm of ex-Sheriff Dawson, of High-

ASKED HER TO MARRY HIM,

land County, he was bitterly opposed to the match,
and forbade me having anything more to do with
Burns. [ answered the letters, however, and he re-
quested me to meet him in this city, and we would be
married. [ gathered together some of my clothing and
told my mother I was going to Covington to visit
friends. When I arrived in this city Burns met me at
the depot, and said he would take me to a wagistrate’s
court, and we would be married. We were joined by
a young friend of his, whom he introduced as Well-
man,and who he said would accompany us to the
*squire’s office to act asa witness. We went toa place
on Main street, near Sixth, which [ afterward learned
was u« real estate office, and here a ceremony was gone
through with, and some man who had long flowing
whiskers pronounced us man and wife.

“After our supposed marriage Burns took me to
apartments on West Fifth street, and after he had
lived with me fur three days he sent me home, and
told me to remain there until he sent for me. Before
leaving the city, however, I investigated regarding the
marriage ceremony, and found that the whole affair
wasa base mockery, and that the supposed ‘Squire
was a traveling men, an intimate friend of Burns. I
also learned that my deceiver’s name is Johnson, and
that he lived in Covington.”

After hearing the girl’s sad narrative of her wrongs,
‘Squire Manning issued a warrant for Johnson's ar-
rest, and the document was given Constable McDer-
mott to serve. This officer invoked the aid of Chief of
Police Goodson, of Covington, and the alleged de-
ceiver will be arrested on sight. Constable Johnson
and bis daughter returned to their home.

Gudea

WOUNDED HIS WIFE’S ABDUCTOR.

Some months ago Lewis Dean of Petersburg, Ind.,
persuaded the wife of John James of Montgomery to
elope with him. The couple weut to Petersburg, and
there lived as man and wife for some time, but James
finally induced hie wife to return to him with a prom-
ine to forgive her.

The other afternoon in company with a man named
Moore, Dean drove up to the home of James in a
buggy. Leaving the horse with Moore, Dean ap-
proached the house, and when he reached the door he
said: “James, by —— I've come to get your wife, and
you had better not interfere with me.” He then seized
Mrs. James and carried her to the buggy, whereupon
James procured a rifle and fired it point blank at the
would-be kidnapper. Dean then drew bis revolver
and fired at James. The men then ceased firing and
Dean retreated.

A number of loggers, who were near by. rushed to
the James home and surrounded Dean. James, who
was shot through the left arm, burried to the city and
gave himself up. He then-caused a warrant to be is-
sued for Dean and Moore.

Officers who burried to the scene of the shooting
found that Dean had been taken by Moore to Peters-
burg, where he was found in charge of three physi-
cians. Dean was fatally wounded.

SUICIDE OF GEN. DUNN.
{SuBsEcT oF ILLUSTRATION.]

Gen. N. Gano Dunn. a veteran of the late war and
prominently identified with New York city politics,
died recently in Denver, Col., from a bullet wound
inflicted by himself the previous night. A lover's
quarrel is said to have been the cause of the rash act.

If Your News Agent has ot got Fox’s Sensational
Series—*“Baccarat.” ‘Fate of a Libertine,” “Her Love Her
Ruin,” “The Devil’s Compact,”’, *Pauline’s ” sé Guilty
—. and a aye Gh Paris. "—Ask him to get oo

, OF sen cents eac this The

ue Beaure, New 5 Pabierer,

SEPT.

Jack

Not

DOW

Jack N
champic
for his t
purse of
lightwei
Louis.
son, of
upon al
upon C1
has not

There
served
orating
men dc
day wil
follows

Then

tor

lal

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

ALREADY FORTH RY

Jack McAuliffe in Trim for His
Coming Battle.

HE SAYS HE WILL WIN.

Not a Believer in Severe Train-
ing Methods.

DOWN TO FIGHTING WEIGHT.

Jack McAuliffe.the holder of the “Police Gazette”
championship belt, is now busily engayed in training
for his battle with Billy Myer, for $5,000 a side and a
purse of $10,000 offered by the Oly mpic Club and the
lightweight championship of America, at Bay St.
Louis. He is attended by Matty Crowe and Jack Nel-
son, of New London. The latter accompanies Jack
upon all his walks, and spars with him regularly, but
upon Crowe falls the real work of the training, which’
has not, however, yet become irksome.

There is leas severity in the daily routine than is ob-
served by most men in training. The cool and invig-
orating air is conducive to sleepiness, and the three
men do not arise very early yet. They commence their
day witha plungein the cold waters of the stream,
followed by « bard rub down and vigorous exercise.

Then breakfast is on the programme, and the re-

JACK M’AULIFFE.

sources of the poultry popniation of the vicinity are
taxed severely to supply the cottage larder, while the
destruction of chops and the numerous accompani-
ments is marvelous. McAuliffe is not yet ona strict
diet, but is satisfied, he says, with the ordinary coun

try menn.

McAuliffe says that he hears that Myer is working
hard and will make the effort of his life at New Or-
leans, but he is perfectly confident of an easy victory
over the Westerner. It will depend wholly upon Myer,
he says, whether the fight is short or comparatively
long. x

“I am in the business,” said McAuliffe, “wholly for
money. The reputation is good for nothing beyond
the revenue which it brings. If there were only repu-
tation in it I should go into the shop and work for a
living. For that reason I have always refused to fight
for small purses. :

“To win this battle with Myer means not only a
great purse for me, but an entire season’s engagement
in England at $500 per week, for which I shall sail im-
mediately after the New Orleans battles. I know of

MAULIFFE PUNCHING THE BAG.

no other fights in the future, unless the trip to Eng-
land should be the means of arranging one.
“Tam well pleased atthe idea of meeting Myer in

Mew Orleans, although it weuld, of course, have been

easier and better had the match been arranged for
Coney Island, as some of my friends tried to have it.

“But Presideut Noel is a first-class man, and his
club the pluckiest in the country. If you don’t think
80, look at the $60,000 which they are to risk upon
those September battles. It is great luck that our
match is arrauged for the first evening, as it gives me
a chance to see the other two.”

“But you may get your eyes closed so that youcan’t,
Jack,” suggested one of the listeners.

“My boy, if you want to grow wealthy, just stake all
your money, Do matter at what odds, that your uncle
will get into no such condition,” retorted McAuliffe,
with a smile of confidence.

His forenoons are quiet, representing very little
work, altbough he has been threatening to labor from
early morning in some neighboring hay field and
make Crowe and Nelson accompany him, the mere an-

e AT A LIVELY GAIT.

nouncement creating consternation on the part of the
two trainers on several occasions when they have be-
lieved he really meant it, for aftera careful examina-
tion of requirements and results they are not am-
bitious, they say. to become farmers.

“Really, about all I do here mornings,” said Mc-
Auliffe when first asked the question, ‘‘is to chase
ducks.”’

“Be careful and have it explained,”” broke in Crowe,
“that this farm and stream abound in ducks, for the
boys might think that it was a kind of ‘chasing the
duck’ known to fame, but outside the limits of this
State.”

{tis rather a light luncheon that they have at the
McAuliffe training table, for not very much later, and
before the heat of the day is over, the lightweight
champion and bis attendants don heavy sweaters, and.
with shor€ walking sticks, start on a five-mile tramp.

He frequently loses three pounds in one of these
tramps, which.is considered remarkable. His heavy
russet walking shoes are always soaked with water.

Here he remains for a couple of hours working most
of the time. His favorite exercise is throwing the
great “medicine balls,” although he rows a little,
works at the chest weights, spars a few rounds with
Nelson, and, as he expresses ii, saya “‘how-de-do” to
the dumbbells, In addition he has had the gloves on
with every member of the club, much rivalry existing
for the opportunity of having a “zo” with the clever
visitor, while the resulting set-tos furnish increasing
amusement.

Since working off the most of b's ‘at, McAuliffe has
been following another of his ow» uotions and putting
his legs and arma in a strong pickle, which he keeps
all brewed in the club rooms, notwithstanding the
delicate olfactory nerves of some of the members.
He says that it toughens the fiesh without bardening
it and he knows of nothing that would work to as
good advantage with him.

He does not retire very early, and will not do so
during his training, he says.

McAuliffe writes from Bay St. Louis that he is down
to his fighting weight, and appears confident of win-
ming. He says that Jimmy Colville, of Boston, will
be his timekeeper.

SHE DROPPED ’EM.
(SuBsEcT oF ILLUSTRATION.)

Ever since the introduction of the new-fangled, all-
in-one piece underwear for ladies, a young lady in
Washington, D. C., bas made herseif almost a bore to
her friends by her enthusiastic advocacy of the aban-
donment of troublesome underskirts, and the adop-
tion of the new underwear by all of hersex. She rides
a tricycle, and thereby hangs a tale—a skirt tail—and
was continually talking abeut the freedom of action
the adoption of the new underwear and the abandon-
ment of underskirts gave to one, but she isn’t saying
aword about itnow. Cause why? Oh. only a little
accident, just one of those little things Mabie to occur
anywhere and toany one. She was riding down Penn-
sylvania avenue the other night accompanied by her
best young man, who rides a bicycle; the electric light
made the avenue almost as light as day. except in the
shadow of an occasional tree,and just as the young
couple started to show the pedestriaus what speed was
in them something snapped, there was an ominous,
tearing sound, and the young lady found her serge
skirt pulled clean off the waist and tangled around the
gearing of the tricycle and her feet. She screamed
slightly, and sometow got her feet untangied, got off
the machine, and made a bee-line for an open side-
door, which was fortunately near-by. With only her
blushing face peeping from behind the door she di-
rected the young man to untangle her skirt and bring
itto her. The young lady hasa big brother who now
makes her life miserable by asking her how she en-
joyed her first public appearance in tights.

iin

ADA HENRY.
(Wits Portrait.)

An excellent and striking portrait of Ada Henry, the
clever and ever-popular actress, graces our dramatic
page this week. stias Henry is already too well known
to the American public to need an extended introduc-
tion from us.

Spicy and Sensational! Fox’s Sensational Series. No.
1—Baccarat. No 2—Fate of « Linertine. No. s—Her Love Her
Ruin. No 4—The Devil's Compact No. 6—Pauline’s Caprice.
No. 6—A Guilty Lowe. No 1—The Demi-Monde of Paris. All
translations from the French and all copiously illustrated.

Price, 69 cents each. Sent by mail to any address on receipt of
price. in heavy wrai RicmaRrD x, Publisher, Frank:

squere, Mew ¥ '

IN GER TE

Ted Pritchard’s March to the
Championship Goal.

A BORN

NOCKER-OUT.
The Man Whom Jim Hall Con-

quered in Four Rounds.

A NOTABLE PRIZE RING HERO.

Probably one of the greatest pugilists that has stood
in the arenain the middle-weight class, with the ex-
ception of Jack Dempsey, since Tom Sayers, the chaw-
pion of England, is Ted Pritchard, of Lambeth, Lon-
don, Eng. Pritchard, from his boyhood days, has
been a pugilist, and, like Jack McAuliffe, the light-
wéight champion of America, and John L. Sullivan, is
a born fighter.

Pritchard is by trade what people politely call a
Knight of St. Crispin, like Joe Goss. His father welts
the soles and now Pritchard welts the bodies. He was
born in Lambeth, London, England.

Pritchard drifted into the profession of the noble
art at fourteen years of age by winning two competi-
tions promoted by Mickey Welch, and followed it up
with another brace, organized by Johnny Welch, ere
he reached his fifteenth year. Pudney Sullivan was
the first to check his career of success, and Bill
Whately followed suit. ‘‘A bit of a boy,” but very
cute Ted was now offered bis first start in life. A man
who traveled with a penny show gave bim an offer to
form one of the troupe of boxers, and Pritchard glad-
ly accepted the proffered engagement. :

He went on a tour, and if bis clients did not appre-
ciate his knocking out propensities, the same cannot
be said of hisemployer. He proved a regular little
Tartar, and made his mark upon the dial of many a
would-be clever youth whose vaulting ambition over-

TED PRITCHARD.

leaped itself. After a little while he separated from
the fold and returned to London, and soon joined an-
other company of strolling players.

Finally he resolved to abandon the life of a show-
man,andtry his luck in “the smoke.” There hap-
pened to be a competition at Plumstead, England, and
Pritchard entered. When it became known the en-
trants declined to compete, as some of them had met
Pritchard on the road. Yorkey, of Leeds, however,
would not be stalled off, and the promoter determined
to give the prizes for a six rounds contest; but Pritch-
ard outed the Yorkshireman early in the competition.

Pritchard then entered the all-comers competition,
promoted by Frank Hinde, at the Imperial Theatre of

PRITCHARD IN FIGHTING ARRAY.

the Royal Westminster Aquarium, London, Engiand.
For the final he bad to meet Dave Burke. It was a
most exciting encounter, Dave being severely pun-
ished and in dire distress, but he stood to his guna
most manfully, and Pritesard having to put forward

all the ability of which he was possessed, finally won.
Later he was matched with Jem Hayes, for £100
aside, under Queensberry rules, the contest tak-
ing place at the Lambeth School of Arms on Feb. 19,
1889, when, after boxing 4 rounds, the friends of
Hayes broke into the ring and the stakes were subse-
quently awarded to Pritchard. Ou June 6 in the same
year, and at the same place he met Alec Burns, who
was matched as an Unknown, under similar condi-
tions. This also proved to be of very short duration,
as Pritchard, getting home a heavy blow on the jaw in
the opening round, gave hie wan no rest afterward,
and won in the second round.

Pritchard’s next battle was with Alf Mitebeji for
$2,000. The encounter was decided at London, Eng..
Dec. 15, 1890, and Pritchard won in four rounds,

The Pritchard aud Burke fight was decided on March
12,1891. The battle waa for £1.000 and the middle
weight championship of Euglaud. Burke was knocked
out in the third round.

Pritchard was subsequently matched to fight Jem
Smith for £1,000 and the championship of England,

PRITCHARD KNOOKS OUT JEM SMITH.

The battle was decided on July 27, 1891, at London,
England. In the first round Smith took a decided
lead. He gave Pritchard a heavy blow on the body,
drove him all over the ring, and floored him twice be-
fore time was culled, Pritchard then seeméd to be
dazed. In the second round, however, a sufprising
change occurred. Pritchard was sprightly, while
Smith appeared to be weak. Pritchard forbed the
fizhbting with such effect that Smith soon showed signs
of baving enoug!. ‘Twice the men went dowg, but at
the close of the round Smith was hardly able to stand.

The third round was a one-sided affair. Pritchard
had quite his own way, and placed bis opponent prone
and helpless on bis back, The display was far from
scieutific. Both men tried to settle the affair as quick-
ly as possible. Both Smith's eyes were blackened, and
his cheeks were puffed and cut considerably.

COULDN’T STAND HIS DISGRACE.

Elwood W. Adams, aged thirty, of Providence, R. L,
recently shot und killed bimself in a restaurant at No,
1,362 Ri enue, Philadelphia, Pa. ;

He got p jasion to wo to an upper room, and
while there shot himself in the mouth. Mrs. Kate
Neilly, who was in the restaurant, rushed up-stairs
and took Adams’ bead in her lap. P

Adams seized the revolver again and put four bul-
lete through his heart. He left a letter addressed to
his parents explaining that be died to save his family
from disyrace as he had gotten his affairs hopelessly
mixed.

CARRIED AWAY BY TWO BRUTES.
(SussKoT OF ILLUSTRATIVN.]}

Lydia Meller and Irene Blizzard, two Chester. Pa.,
girls, recently disappeared from home, After an ab-
sence of four days the girle arrived home. They claim
that they were drugged by two men who.w they met
at Lincoln Park, and after missing the last boat for
Chester were taken to Philadelphia and forced to enter
acab. They were then taken to a strange hotel), where
they were afterward deserted by their abductors.
Miss Blizzard shows marks of her male escort’s fingers
on her throat, and both girls are prostrated at the
Meller residence.

A CIGARETTE FIEND’S ACT.
(SussEecT OF ILLUSTRaTION.}

One night recently Mrs. C. E. Noble, of Poughkeep-
sie, N. Y., awoke to find that some one had attempted
to chloroform her by placing a cloth saturated with
the drug across her face. She jumped up and heard
some one dash from the house. The police were noti-
fied and arrested sixteen-year-old Harry Slater on
suspicion. When cornered he broke down and con-
fessed to being the guilty party. He says he entered
the house through a rear window. Dime novels and
cigarettes were the cause of his down fall.

WAS IT A FISHY KISS?
[Sussect or ILLUsTRATION. |
While Miss Katie Smuck, of New York city, who was

recently bathing in Lake Keuka, near Hammonds-
port, N. Y., was lying on the shore with her feet near
the water, a large white fish, rarcly seen in the lake,
weighing over four pounds, jumped out of the water
and caught one of Miss Smuck’s great toes in its
mouth, biting it severely. The fish was caught by a
young man named Bradley with his bands, taken
home and cooked for supper.

HE HUGGED MISS KELSER,
{SuBJEcT OF ILLUSTRATION.)

One day recently young Charlies Pierce, of Abpecon,
N. J., took Miss Lizzie Kelser out driving. While rid-
ing along the young man put his arms around Lizzie
and bugged her. On her return to town the bashful
maiden swore out a warrant for her escort’s arrest.
He was placed under $500 bail to keep the peace.

diesentihagemeiiliaiidaiaiiititiiag

CROSSMAN’S SPECIFIC MIXTURE.
Cureé Gonorrb@a. For sale by all druggists.

Third Edition of ‘‘Pauline’s Caprice” now ready.
For's Sensational series No. 6, one of the spiciest and most sen-
sationak ‘hoVels ever published. Unique celored tilustrations

from the French. Matied to any address on
ina Brenann KM Fam, Pebiieher, Franklin Severe

NATIONA

| inhi mit Mit i}

it MAN

{hiss “i

yi te
nein)

MQ nds

PTT aan \\ wa

INSURRECTION AND BLOODY BATTLES FOUGHT BEI
RIOTERS IN BUFFALO—A SHARP

TENNESSEE IN A STATE OF

STRIKERS 4

NT BUFFALG Ny.

CARS

BURN FREIC

NEw YORK:

ZETTE:

nvr eH TY

NEW YORK TO QUELL

HOMESTEAD,

EMINERS AND SOLDIERS—THE STATE MILITIA CALLED OUT IN
SKIRMISH _ IN

RPBHORT

Fe THE MILITIA.

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE:

PRITCHARD KNOCKED OUT

By Jim Hall, the Shifty Austra-
lian Pugilist.

TED WAS BADLY PUNISHED.

[Scasect or ILLvsTRaTtion,]
[SPRCIAL CABLE TO THK POLICK GAZETTE. ]
LONDON, August 90, 1897.

The glove fiuht between Jim Hall, of New York (formerly of
Austraiia), and Ted Pritchard, of Lambeth, the champion prize
fighter of Engian«d, wageecided a Brighton to-day. Pritchar:,
owing to the fact that he had defeated Alf Mitehell. Burke and
Jom Smith, the latter for the championship of England, was
the faverite at 6 to 4 = The felt ended in a victory for Hall,
who knocked out the English champion itn the fourth round,
Hall displayed great form and surprised Pritchard's backers

The men fonght with smal! gloves, according Ww Queensberry

Warren Lewis, of New York. the well-known American sport-
ing man, and Chariey Mitchell backed Hall, while George
Baird, better known as Squire Abington, backed Pritchard.
Warren Lewis backed his protege heavily and surprised the
natives by the way he bet his ‘‘menkeys” on the Australian.

The fight took piace at Perthsiade, in the presence of forty
spectators. Charley Mitchell won the toss for Hall, and placed
him with his back to the sun, which beat down fiercely on the
men.

Pritchard was seconded by Sam Blakelock and Jack Baldock,
" while Charley Mitchell and Charley Rowell, who trained Hall,
seconded him. Warren Lewis was Hall's timekeeper.

Bets were made at 7 to 4.0n Pritchard. One wager of £100 that
Hall would not stay three rounds caused Hall to smile. The
Australian was taller by three inches and had a much longer
reach than his adversary. It required only a glance to see that
both boxers were aplendidly trained. At the weighing-in
neither put the scales above 160 pounds.

Hali’s immense advantage in reach and height was noticeable
as they squared off. Pritchard spent littie time in looking over
bis adversary. but sailed in wickedly, probably with the idea of
xetting through the Job as quickly as possible. His leads, how-
ever, fell shert in nearly every instance, and the Australian's
remarkable cleverness astonished not only the Engilsh cham-
plom, but everybody about the ring. Spry as he was, Pritchard
was no match for Hall, who met him at each rush with well-
directed left-hand biows on the face and neck. Seeing how little
chance he had to break through Hall's guard, Pritchard tried to
close in, At this style of fighting he had no chance whatever,
for Hall dreve him off handily. From the end of the first min-
ute until time was called they were constantly at it, with the
Australian showing admirable generaiship and tremendous
punching powers.

Afver a few exchanges In the second round, Hall, whose
timing of blows had previously been excellent, made a mi>scal-
culation in a jead and Pritchard crossed him, landing with ter-
rible force on the Australian's jaw. Down he went ina heap.
Pritchard ginred at his fallen opponent and a confident smilo
played on his lips. Walking toward his corner he held out his
gloves #9 that Baldock could lousen the strings. His seconds
yelled enthusiastically and hailed Ted as champion.

“'Ow's yer Australian now?” cried Biakelock, eying Mitchell
contemptuously across the ring.

“A fight's never won till it’s over,” retorted England's great.
eat fichter.

And before the timekeeper reached ‘‘nine”’ In his count Hall
was on his feet. This angered Pritchard, who pitched in ham-
mer and tongs. But Hall, dazed as he was, soon recovered and
was really doing most of the fighting when the round closed.

It was a keen disappointment to Baldock’s man, this unex-
pected turn in the affair, and he showed signs of distress in the
third round. The fall seemed to have brightened the Australian
up, for he made a sorry spectacie of Pritchard before taking his
seat for thethird time. A succession of short-arm punches on
the faceand jaw disfigured the English boxer's dial, and he
seemed to collapse. There was notascraich on Hall, and he
was breathing naturally when reund 4 was called. Pritchard
was very much disCreseed, and the jarring he received rather
muddled him.

Alter feinting once or twice, Hall let drive his left to the point
Of the jaw, and Pritchard tumbied over. He arose with creat
difficulty and Hal) waited until he had reached his feet squarely
before sending in his right hand. The blow landed on Pritch-
ard’scheekbone. Once more he toppled and fell. After a few
seconds he rolied over and lay on his face untli he was counted
out. It was fully a minute before the ammonia which his sec-
onde held under bis nostrils brought him back to consclousness.
Mitchell and Rewel: lifted Hall above their heads and a great
demonstration followed. °

The fourth round lasted only 1 minute 60 seconds.

Not a little interest was manifested in the ontcome of this
fight in America, for the reason that Hall, though an Australian,
has renonnced his allegiance to the British throne, and declared
his intention of becoming au American citizen. He went abroad
under the management of Parson Davies, whose fame as an tn-
citer of interest In pugtilistic affairs is world wide, and besides it
was American money that enabled him to meet the English
champion.

Hall tried to get a pugilistic footing in America by taking on
Fitzsimmons, but the conqueror of Jack Dempsey would have
none ef him. and in his eagerness for a fight the Australian had
to zo abroad for a title that would command Fitzsimmone’s at-
tention, and elther make him fight or relinquish his claim to the
championship. Hall made himeelf extremely popular during
his brief sqjourn in America, and althongh he engaged in no
finish fights he took the fancy of the leading sports. He proved
to be a clever man in the nse of his hands, and hie name was
placed among the tip-toppers despite the fact that he only gave
exhibition set-tos.

After the battle Richard K. Fox wired from Liandudno,
Wales, congratulations to Hall. The following cable was re-
ceived from Warren Lewis:

Hall is a wonder. He beat Pritchard easily, and surprised
sporting men here. Hal) will go back on City of Rome with me.
Americans backed Hall heavily, and received odds of 7 to 4.
Richard K. Fox says Halil is a wonder. On my return will de-
posit $6,000 with PoLice Gazette, match Mall to fight Bob Fits-
simmons for $10,000 a side and largest purse. About $20,000
changed hands on result. Warren Lewis.

tit

AN EXCITING FINISH.

Yorkville Belle Wins the $20,000 Omnibus Stakes
with Garrison Up. el

One of the richest races of the turf season, the Omnibus
Stakes, value $20,000, one mile and a half, was run at Monmouth
Park, N. J., on Aug 16. Tammany, the champion three-year-
old, did not start, and Edward H. Garrison, America’s champion
jockey, had the mount on Yorkville Belle. Over 15,000 specta-
tors witnsesed the race, and The Pepper was the favorite. At
the start Mars, who carried 127 pounds, went off with the lead.
At the ond of half a mile The Pepper took third place, a length
behind Mars and Bashford, the whole fleld assuming close order
as they swung around the turn. As they made the turn for the
run home Bashferd passed Mars, while Huren, The Pepper and
Yorkville Belle closed very rapidly Littlefield gave Mars a
stinging blow with the whip, and the game colt went through
und showed In font again for a hundred yards. The weight
sfain told on him and he lost ground gradually. His rider
very properly ceased punishing him. A quarter of a mile
from home Huron shot out of the bnach as though propelled by
machinery, and passing Bashford in « twink'ing, looked a win-
ner. It Was only fora moment, however. a6 Garrison moved
@P om Tefevine Rolie, aud the hamdeome Biig quickly vvere

hauled the Western colt, aviin «a hundred yards hal Overton
to the whip. Then there was no deuwbt «as to the whoner. tre
Belle coming on in grand style, ani pass me the pest firet by «
length. Huron, ridden out te the last ounce in the endeavor to

place the $29,000 to his owner's credit was see nd, five lengths
before The Pepper. Pickpocket was fourth and the others no-
SUMMARY. —The Omnibus Stakes, for three-year-olds, at $250
each. with $10.000 aided, of whlel: $2,000 Ww the second and
$1.00 te the third; winning penalties; non-«inning and
maiden allowances; one mile aud « haif, outer circular course.
PF. A. Ehret’s ch. f. York viile Beiie, by Miser—Thora, 124 (Gar-
rison).... Seer ccccesecceor oe so éereeee
EB. Corrigan’s br. c Huron, 117 (Overton) se
Pickpocket, Eutre. Mars, Kilkenny and Bashford alse ran
Betting —Five to4on The Pepper; against York ville Belle, 6 to
1; Mars, 61; Pickpecwet,éto 1: Huron, 15 w 1; Klikenny, 20
tol: Bashford, 20 to 1: Entre, 26 to 1.

NANCY HANES, THE QUEEN.

Mand 8. is no longer the quven of the turf. The proud posi-
tion which the daughter of Harold has heid since she trotted
1 mile in 2 minutes 8% seconds, at Cleveland, Onlo, on July
30, 1685, has been beaten by Nancy Hanke, the flect dangiter of
Happy Medium, driven by Budd D..vle, the veteran driver of
Goldamith Maid. Nancy Hanks trotted a mile at Chicago. Il,
on Aug. 17, in 2 minutes 74% seconds, beating ail previous rec-
ords made by Sunel, 2:08%. and Mand 8 , 2:08%, on kite and
regulation tracks. The official time fer the mile, which was as
The tast quarter w 6 trotted In 80% seconds.

Doble waxed enthusiastic In speaking of his mare after the
heat wasover. ‘She is, in my op'nion,” he said. “without a
peer on the trotting turf. She was not distressed in the slight-
est degree at the end of the mile, and finished fresh and strong
Within 20 minutes «after trotting that mile in 2:07 she could
have cone out and trotted very close to it. I den't say that sho
could have equaled it, but she could have put in a very fast
mile without much trouble. She trotted through from the wire
to the wire, never lost her head, and dil not show the slightest
inclination to leave her feet. She did the track so comfortably
to-day that Iam sure she can beat it in the futnre.”

“Did you have any idea that you were breaking the record?”

“I knew at the half,” said Doble, with a qniet srile, ‘that
Nancy was going to come very close to it anyhow. I looked at
my watch and saw she had Cone it in 1:04 by my watch, and I
knew she could at least keep up the gait at which she was go-
ing. Then when I heard them yell asi finished I knew it was
done.” In trotting the heat, the mare, who weighed 879 pounds,
pulled Doble, who weighed 160 pounds, and a sulky of 62%
pounds weight.

Nancy Hanks, the queen of the trotting turf, is a bay mare
oix years old, 15% hans high. She wasrired by Happy Medium
out of a Dictator mare.

JAKE KILRAIN THINKS JOHN L. WILL WIN.

[SPECIAL TO THE POLICR GAZETTE ]

In an Interview with Jake Kilrain, the ex-champion pugi ist
of America, Kiirain sald:

“I think Corbett is ono of the shiftiest men I ever saw, but
he doesn’t class with John L. Sullivan asa fighter.

“When I met Corbett in New Orleans I was really surprised
at hiscleverness| Had I known how shitty he was I should
have done some training

“TI was outpolnted, but had the contest been to a finish the
result, I believe, would have been different.

“I noticed one thing about Corbert. He doesn't like infizht-
ing. Every time we got at close quarters I punched away at
his wind,

“Having one hand free, I had a perfect right to do so, but he
appealed to the referev and no infighting was allowed after the
third round.

“I was weak whon I entered the ring, but the several body
blows [ landed made him wince. What will he do when a man
like Sullivan pounds tis wind ?

“Corbett himaeif is anything but ahard puncher. They can
all talk about Sullivan's broken-down constitution and a‘l thar,
He ls a remarkable man, and can fight 24 hours at a strotch if
he is properly trained.”

A ROCK DRILLING CONTEST.

At Centerville, Montana, recently there was a rock drilling
match between William Page and James Teague for the cuam-
ploaship, and about $1,600 cLanged hands on this most novel
competition,

Teague drilled first, using an eight-pound hammer, and was
loudy cheered when the result of h'* work was aunounced at 32
inches,

Page stripped fine form and worked freely. Ile wielded a
nine-pound hammer and reached a depth of 83% Inches late the
rock.

The enthusiasm of the crowd when the result was known was
upreartous.

The judges were Sam Reynolds, Dennis O'Neil and Bert Smith.
The drills submitted to them were satisfactory, except tliat In
each kit there was one small one, but as this was oquaily talr for
each contestant they were allowed to pass.

Page is a native of New Jersey, stands 5 feet 7 Inches, and
weighs 145 pounds. He has forwarded a challenge to the POLice
GAZETTE that he will compete in a contest at rock driiling
against any man in America for $1,000 a side and the champlon-
ship.

GETTING READY FOR THE FIGHTS.

No time Is being lost by the O'ympic Athletic Club in New Or-
leans in making ita preparations for the big fights which will
take place in its arena next month.

The work on the arena is being pushed rapidly, and the ad-
ditions to the amphitheatre are nearly completed.

The big electric clock which was ordered bas not arrived, but
the officials are looking for it every day.

It is an absolute certainty that the crowd which will attend
their fights will exceed that which has attended any of their
noted seasons of carnival civen in New Orleans yearly, and ap-
plications for seats have been coming in with a rush.

The club management is sure of a successful nan ‘ial termin-
ation of the milis, and will do everything tu the power to
make their guests comfortadie.

The central office has not been opened, but it will be in a day
or two, and all applicatiens for information will meet with ready
service at the hands of Capt. Wiliiams, whose work as advance
representative of the club In the arrangements of the fights
have made him well known to every sperting man in the coun-
try.

HARRY McCOY ANXIOUS FOR A MATCH.

Harry McCoy, the welter-weight champion pugilist of Iowa,
writes to the POLICE GAZETTE from Burlington Lowa, as follows:

“If the Coney Island or the Olymple Club ct New Orleans will
hang up @ reasonable purse I will fight Tom Kyan, Geo Dawson
or Tom Williams, the present champion of Australia, now com.
ing to this country, with a side bet of $3,000, or I will fight any
weilter-weight in America whe has a good sohd reputation; or I
will come Kast and ficht Doc O'Connell or Patay Kerrigan on the
same terms. I have alrendy lesued several different cnallences
and no notice has ever been taken of them. Now if the men
named are inclined to Jay hold and claim the Litle of welter-
weight champion let them come ont and fight me and not put
me off on flimsy excuses as they have been duing.”

BILL HATCHER, 2UGILIST.
(Wita PorTRAIT j
Bill Hatcher, whose portrait appears in this lasne of the r’o-
LICK CaZETTE is one of the best 140-pound pugilists In England,
Tie has engaged In several battier. His last fight was with Tom
Willtams, the 140-pound champion of Australia, who knocked
him out In one round

Do not get excited, but read Fox's Sensational Series
Ne 6, A Guilty Love,” by Belot. Dliustrared in Frenth style
Price 60 cents,» mall, in heavy wrapper. Addtees MrO4Menp
A. » Pebil.i. co Preeklin Square, Few For

NEW YORK.

SPORTING NEMS AD NOTES,

ELEGANTLY-FINISHED PHOTOGRAPHS

SULLIVAN AND CORBETT,
McAULIFFE AND MYER,
DIXON AND SKELLY.

Cabinet Size, 10 cents; 11x14 inches, 50

The above photographs are finished In the highest style of the
ar\. and are well worth framing. For club houses, barber shops,
saloons. ete , they are an attraction as well as ornamental. Sent
two any address on reeeipt of price, by

Ricwuarp K. Fox, Franklin Square, New York City.

Dominick McCaffrey says he will box Jim Corbett
four or ten rounds if tie Manhattan Athletic Club wiil give him
permission.

Johnny Reagan, the popular boxer, has gone on a
vacation of two weeks. On his return to New York he wiil be
heard from.

All the stakes in the Skelly and Dixon fight for
$10,000 and a purse of $7,600 were posted on Aug. 16 at the New
York World office.

Champion George, the famous pug, died in Phila-
delphia on Aug 13. Hv was boru in France 15 years ago and
won 14 first prizes in America.

At Monmouth Park, on Aug. 13, 1892, Queenie
Trowbridge, with 111 pounds up. rau three-quarters of a mie in
1:114g. Queeule Trowbridge’s time is the best on record.

Harry Jewett, of tie Detroit Athletic Cinb, ina
100 yard race in Cleveland, Olle, on August 13, did the distance
'n 9 4-5 seconds, winning the race by «step from G. M. Kimmel
(10 yards), of the East End Gymnastic Club, of Pittsburg.

On August 14, at tho Srar athletic gam*s, at Hun- }

ters Point, L I., John J. Barrett of Galway. Ireiand, late of tre
English army, put the 16-pound shot 48 feet 6 inches, beating
the best record ever made in the world. Barrett made the put
without fullow from a seven-f wt circle,

John Briss, of Des Moines, Iowa, who is connected
with the Dos Moines Graphic, is arranging several glove con-
testa, Recently he sent tor a set of the “Tolice Gazette” cham-
pion bexing gloves. Since then he has sent for several sets, and
claims they are the bes! In the market.

At the Academy of Music, New York, on August
18, Billy Hill, Muldoon’s Pickaniny, knecked Casper Leon out In
one minute and thirty seconds, Sam Mor ls, the Cyclone, and
Jack Fogarty, Cuban Giant, ef Philadelphia, both colered,
fought four rounds, when the Cuban Giant injured h's wrist and
the police stopped the affair.

The following special cable was received at the
Poiice Gazette office :
Toff Wall, who some time ago retired from tho ring, has issued
a challenge to fight any man in England for £200 and the lary-
est purse offered.

The eight-hour go-as-you-please race at Burgett
Park, Dover, N. H, for a purse of $190, divided, $50 to first, $25
to second, $15 to third, $10 to fourth, was very exciting betwen
Guererre and Hegleman. The score atthe end of eight hours
was: Llegleman, New York, 44 miles, 5 laps; Guererro, Bath,
Me.. 44 miles 1 lap; Carney, of Boston, 42 miles 1 lap; Igeco,
Dover, 41 ini.es 3 laps; Jackson, Boston, 37 miles 9 laps.

At the Gloucester, N. J., race track, on Aug. 15,
an accident eccurred in the first race which wi.) probably resu't
in the death of one or more of the unfortunate boys who wero
injured. The accident occurred when the horses were not
quite half way areund the upperturn. Hurry Away fell and
threw Jockey McGione, and six horses stumbled over the
Jeader and fel. Tue injured beys were Cleary, Morrissey,
Brooker and McGlone,

Richard K. Fexrecently hadan elegant champion
chalienge cup nade an! presented tu tiv Sporting Life Amateur
Athletic Club, for competition in a 300-vard race, The trophy
was recent.y competed for, and was wou by C. Carter, Sum-
mary: 300 yards cl.allenge cap (<cratch) (presente! by Richard
K. Fox, proprietor of Potick Gazettz, New York.)—C. Carter
first, J. W. Armour seco..d. Carter had the race in hand secon
after the start, and coming clean away In the last 100 yards, won
with the utmost ease, Armour not persevering to the finish,
Time, 37% seconds.

George Wright, the champion feather-weight of
Canada, the only pugilist who ever defeated Geor:e Dixon,
ca.led at the PoLick Gazette office last week to icsue a chal-
lenge to Tom Euston, the English pugtiist, who recently de-
feated George Strong in Engiand. Wright authorised a cable to
the Sporting Life to the effect that he would fight Euston In
either the National Sperting Club or the Bolinbroke Ciab, for a
£300 purse, five weeks from his arrival in England, providing
he was al owed expenses. Wright defexted Strong in less than
14% minutes, and then he lost to Strong by an alleged foul.

On August 13, Jim Corbett, the pugilist, made his
apperrance at Txylor’s Opera House at Trenton, N. J., in the
piay “After Dark.” Tne pugilist was greeted by an audience of
twenty-five hundred persons. He boxed four rounds with Jack
McVey in the concert hall scene of the piece and seemed In fine
torm. The andience was divided in ite sympathies, and while
Corbett was repeatedly cheered, numerous admirers of Sullivan
made their presence felt by catealls and by loud applause for
‘Tne Champion of the World.” Thé bills announced that this
would be Corbett’s only public appearance before the fight In
September.

Billy Martin, champion long distance bicycle rider
of the world, called at the Potice GAZETTE office Aug. 17, and
after depositing $60 with the Sporting Editor, issued the fullow-
ing challenge:

Mr. Ricuarp K. Fox—Having learned that Mr. Charles W.
Ashinger, the champion 72-hour bicycle rider of the world, is
desirons of meeting me in a 24-hour competition, I hereby chal-
lenge him toa @-hour race for $200 a side. If Mr. Ashinger
covers my deposit and arranges a meeting I will make the
match. WILLIAM MARTIN.

Champion six day bicycle :ider of the world.

Bud Renaud, the Sporting King of New Orleans,
writes to the POLICE GAZETTE that the Mérchants’ Club in New
Orleans, over which Col. Pat Duffy and himself preside, will be
0; ened on September 1. Bud Renand is the best posted sport-
jog man in New Orleans. He has not got to huatie for the coin,
bécanse he has a fortune at his command, and he is interested
in several bookmaking establishments and owns racehorses and
real estate, while the collection of di ds Mrs. R d pos-
seases (not speaking of Bud) won'd rival the Queen of Sheba.
Renand managed the great prize ficht for the “Police Gazette”
belt, $20,000 and the championship of the world, which was one
ot the greatest sporting events in the histvry of America.

The following letter was received at the ‘Police

Gazette” office:

The pugilistic carnival promises to eclipse Mar: ‘i Gras week.
Demands for reserved seats continue to come hi irom nearly
every State in the union wor the Sullivan and Corbett fixht
Oya pic Clnb believe they will be able te seat 6.600 spectators
Special trains made up by sporting men wil! be run from San
Francisco, ‘‘enver, 8t. Paul, St. Louis, Chicago and New York,
independen i the regu:ar trains. Bud Renaud, of the Merch-
ant’s Club, is dally receiving big commissions to invest on
Sullivan, Corbett and Myer, and it Is reported he has alteady
more orders than he whi be able to fill, as the bnik of the money
is ty be bet on Sullivan and Wyer. Renaud expects to be able

fo piuse the Myer rmeepey easicd tham the Sullivan money when

the New York and Boston sporting men arrive here. Renaud
estimates there will be at least $190,000 bet on the Srilivan and
Corbett and Myer and McAuliffe fights. Renaud is not betting
on the fight owing to his being stakeholder fur several wagers,
and because his friends represent both sullivan and Corbett.
Col, Pat Duffy, Bad Renand’s partner, will bet at least $10,000 on
Sullivan, and half that amount on McAuliffe and Dixon.

Billy Dacey, the well-known lightweight pugilist,
who has during his Getic career fought Jack Dempsey, Jack
McAuliffe and other pugilists, is exger to enter the arena and
face any lightweight pugiiist in America Dacey called at the
Powice GaZzetre vffice and left the fullowing:

New York, August 16, 1992.

Having read that Dick Burge. the lightweight champion of
England, is coming to America to test the merits of the Ameri-
can boxers, I wish to state that I will meet Burge for $1.0004
side and the largest purse offe.ed either by the Coney Island or
the Olymple Athletic Ciub. Both to weigh 183 pounds at the
ring side, and ‘*Police Gazette” rules to govern. Should Barge
retuse to arrange # match, I will meet any pugilist in America
at 188 pounds upon the same terms. Bitty Dacer.

At the Academy of Music, New York, on August 15,
George Godfrey and C. C. Smith, both colored, boxed four
rounds. &porting men who looked for a knockout were disap-
pointed. Still Smith was pretty badly punished in the wind and
his nose will be sere for many a day. Godfrey was much the
smaller man, and when he discovered that Smith was far from
being what sports term a “stuff,” he tried to get his adversary
to lead. Smith lost confidence when he tried several times and
missed. Godfrey would feint and ,then let drive at his oppon-
ent’s wind with his right. Twice he landed with tremendous
force. After that he coutented himself with prodding the big
man inthe nose. Smith was outclassed, and at the end of the
fourth round Jack Alder, the referee, declared Godfrey the
winner.

JAMES F. GILLESPIE,
(With Porrrairt.)

James F. Gillespie was born in Wheeling, W. Wa., on Sept.
21, 1867. Ring weicht, 140 pounds; height, 6 feet 73g inches,
Without training or competent instruction, he early entered the
ring and developed extraordinary ability to endure punish ment.
He is a long-win.Jed, patient fighter, growing more vicious as
the contest proceeds, is never discouraged by a reverse in the
ring, and often wins what seems a losing battie. First battle,
boat Prof. Atthur Mitchell London. Eng., 6 rounds. Dec. 18,
1891. Beat James Conners, of Pennsylvania, in 4-round fight,
thouch referee declared a draw. Conners declined to renew the
battle. Won seven local contests, and on March 19, 189%, met
and defeated Joe Jones, ot London, Eng., in a desperate battle
of 67 rounds Gillespie Is the acknowledged local champion of
West Virginia, and will meet any man of his class who can post
the requisite forfeit. He is modest, unassuming and courageons,
and will yet be heard from among the game and gallant fighters
who have made his class the boast and glory of the sporting
world, We predict for the broad-shouldered, genial young pu-
gi'ist a career that will neither disgrace himself nor disappoint
his friends.

GEORGE BUBEAR SAYS HE WANTS TO ROW.

The following letter was received at the POLICE GAZETTE office

from George Bubear, the ex-champion oareman of Engiand:
STAR AND GARTER, PUTNEY, SURREY. ENG., )

Ricwarp K. Fox—I have just returned to Bngland from Aus~
tralia, and intend to row any man in Great Britain for the
championship of England.

James Stansbury and Peter Kemp are coming to England,
and will probably meet Wm. O'Connor, Edward Hanlan, Jake
Ganudaur or John Teemer on the Thames.

Tam trying to arrange a match with Wm. East, for the scnil<
ing champtonship of England I will row Stevenson of Australia,
who is now In America, upon the Thames or Tyne champlion-—
ship conrses, for £100 or £200 @ side. It is reported that the
POLICE GAZETTE Intends to hold an international regatta at
Chlengo during the World's Fair, and that the races will be open
or single, pair oared, donble and four cared crews Please, Mr,
Fox, send me programme and particulars as I will enter the
single pair and double scull races, GEORGE BUBEAR,

WILL KILRAIN MEET GODDARD?

The following letter was received at the PoLice Gazerrs office
from Billy Madden:

MECHANICSVILLE, N. Y., August 16, 1892.

I understand Jake Ki!rain will meet my new champion, Joe
Goddard. If such is the case, Goddard, on his arrival in New
York, with mect Kilrain in a contest of four rounds In the
Academy of Music or in Madison Square Garden any time after
the 16th of September that will suit Kilrain. I have forwarded
& letter to the Coney Island Athletic Club asking them to put up
® purse of $26.000 fur a contest between the winner of the
Su!livan and Corbett test and Goddard. If they do not send
a favorable answer, Goddard shall fight any man in the world
for $5,000 a side and the largest purse. I am going to New
Orleans and will meet Joe Goddard there. BILLY MADDEN,

A NEW PACING RECORD.

Hal Pointer paced a miie at Chicago, IiL,on Ang. 18,1n 2%

inutes 54 js and beat the fastest mile ever paced, which
was made by Johnston, October, 1884, at Chicago Westside
Driving Park. Asin thacase of Nancy Hanks, who beat the
universe ae a trotter, Hal Pointer was hitched to a sulky with
low wheels, pneumatic tire and ball bearines.. Its weight was
the Same as that used by Doblein driving Nancy Hankse—eakg
pounds, A few yells went up here and there, a round of ap-
Pplause through the grand stand as 2:05% was hung out by the
timers and that was all.

Hal Pointer is a bay gelding, sixteen hands high, sired by
Tom Hall, out of Spowhaven.

“NORA MACHREE.”

In “N ra Muchree” Miss Sadie Scanian, who appears at the
People’s Theatre this week, has a play exactly suited to her
protean genius. She appears in the title rele, and it affords her
ample scope for the display of her versatility as an actress as
well as to introduce a number of beautiful songs of her own
composition. The character of Nora Machree \s a reproduction
ot Irish life, and no one can give the proper coloring, the true
touches of light and shade, unless thoroughly conversant with
every detail the character demands and able to reproduce them.

AL. LAWSON.
[Wrre Porrrait }

One of the best known baseball pitchers and managors in the
country is Al. Lawson, a portrait of whom appears on another
page. Lawson Is at the head of the New York Amateur Base-
bail Club, a clever team now playing in England.

PROF. RICHARD WALKER.
[Wits Porrratr.}

Prof. Riehard Walker. whose portrait appears on another
page, isa gentleman well-known in Perth, West Australia He
is a thorough sport, and takes great interest in all athletic
exhibitions.

WILLIAM H. REYNOLDS.
(Wire Porrratr.}

Elsewhere we reproduce an cxcellent portrait of William H.
Reynoids, backer of young Jack Skelly, the clever pugilist.
Reynolds is a shrewd match maker and a business man of
ability.

ihe,

SAM W. GUMPERTZ.
° (Wrra Porrra!t.)
Sam W. Gumperts, whose portrait appears eisewhere, is a
theatrica! man weil known throughout the United States. He is
genefal representative for the Jonn D. Hopkins enterprises.

Scere Pinen,snd, fact sncy. lngant, Cenagt

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

BOTH ARE IKE CMD

Sullivan and Corbett Training
Faithfully for their Fight.

EACH THINKS HE WILL WIN.

The question that is agitating sporting men is how
the great contest between John L Sullivan, the champion of
the world, and Jim Corbett, the California Wonder, is going to
end, Shrewd betting men are, strange to say, backing Corbet,
when one would suppose their money would go on Sullivan,
Among these men are Phii Dwyer, John McCormick, Dave
Gideon, Alf Lakeland, Al Smith, Jack McDonald and Matty
Corbett, ali well known turfmen and bookmakers. There are
two reasons why these sporting men back Corbett. The first is
they believe John L. Sullivan is not the gladiator he was sev-
eral years agu: that he has been fighting tor over a decade and
has not the vitality left he should have owing to his following
the motte: “As we Journey through life let us live by the way.”
Second: the fact that Corbett defeated Kilrain in six rounds,
while it towk Sallivan seventy-five rounds to accomplish the
same feat, and then Corbett fought Poter Jackson to a stand-
still, and then Jackson defeats Slavin in short order—aiter the
latter had deteated Kilrain in nine rounds.

The assertion that Sullivan is not the great pugilist
he was six years ago may be true, and the battle on Sept. 7
wi that question, but trying to make Kilrain the trial
horse whereby to Judge Corbett’s Oghting abilities amounts to
nothing. At the time Sullivan fought Kilrain the latter was not
fit to fight; neither was Sullivan in condition to defeat a first-
class man. This fact was clearly demonstrated by the battie, if
it might be styled such. Sullivan was tired, and the excessive
heat heavily handicapped his chances.

Not long after Kilrain fought Sullivan he met Cor. “
bett In a six-round contest. He was not by any means well, and
trusted so much in his supposed ability that he did not prepare
for the battle believing he had to meet a selling plater instead
of a first-class. clever, active boxer. At the end of the six
rounds Oorbett was declared the winner. Thecontest was not
& Gnished battice. Neither was conquered, and Klirain was will-
ing w renew the contest in eight weeks for $5,000. Slavin later
defeated Kilrain fairly. Slavin's victory over Kilrain was more
decisive than Corbett’s because in the latter case Kilrain did not
stop, neither was he knocked out, while Siavin did put him to
sleep. _Corbett’s battle with Jackson was a creditable perform-
ance an: the only line to gauge his fighting ability and stami-
na, and yet Peter Jackson was suffering from an injury, and still
the honors were equally divided. The Jackson and Corbett con-
test proved that the latter was thoroughly game and possessed
wonderful stamina, and it is upon his endurance that he ex-
pects to defeat Sullivan by tiring him out In the ring,

Prior to Sullivan fighting Charley Mitchell in
France on March 10. 1888, it was claimed that if Sullivan did not
defeat Mitchell in ten rounds Mitchell would win, because Sulli-
van could not stay. Snuilivan did not win owing to the fact that
he spent more time in pleasure than in working while training.
He did not lose but he exploded the theory that he could net
fight for hours. Sullivan again, when he fought Kllrain, proved
he was not only @ great fighter but ho prssessed the staying
powers now so necessary in fisticencounters. If Corbett ex-
pects to outlast Sullivan in the ring the fight will necessarily be
along one, Sullivan will make the pace het, hit hard and often,
and if Corbett stands up and mixes it with the champion, the
battle will not be a protracted one.

oe a

The reason the Jackson and Corbett battle lasted
80 long, Jackson said, was owing to the tact that his sprained
leg gave out, and he could not follow up advantages. By the
way Jackson followed Slavin, who was supposed to be the best
man in the world when he challenged Sullivan, Jackson's claim
looks plausible. Corbeit, on the other hand, claims he would
have finished Jackson only that his hands gave way from con-
tinual blows which he landed on Jackson's head, and thus the

matter stands.
Ae Bw

Sullivan’s admirers, Pat Sheedy, Charley Johnston,
George H, Engeman, Capt. Ordway, of Buswn, claim that if
Sullivan only enters the ring in condition he will win. They ad-
mit Corbett is a clever boxer, but they do not believe he will be
able to stand the heavy blows Sullivan will land, while they
know that the Californian’s hands are not tough snough to do
Touch injury to Sullivan. Corbett has the advantage in height
and len.th of reach, and probably he is more active in the rig,
but the wonderful hitting powers of Sulliven, if he is strong,
has plenty of wind and io condition, should win.

Sullivan has been battling in the prise ring since
1879, and during his wonderful fistic career he has never met
with defeat, and has only been knocked down twice. He has
met champions from all parts of the world, and in every battie
he engaged In if he did not win he did not lose, He says that
his coming contest with Corbett, if he wins, will be his last, and
he ls going to do his best to win. All reports about bis not
training faithfully are absurd. He is aware that if he wins he
will receive a purse of $25,000 the largest purse ever offered, and
the largest amount of money two pugilists from Jack Brough-
ton’s time to date ever fought for, besides $20 000 in stakes.
Bhould Sullivan win, at the lowest calculation he will receive
$80,000—$5,000 from the stakes and the purse. Shouid Corbett
defeat Sullivan he will receive the purse and $10,000 of the
stakes, making $85,000, his backers will only retain the $10,000
they posted, but Corbett will have to defray his own training
expenses.

a ee

The fight is now beginning to be the topic of con-
versation, and before many moons it will be settied whether
John L. Sullivan still holds the “Police Gazette” champion belt
and the champlenship of the world, or James Corbett. Should
the latter win he will be kept busy in defending his title, for
Peter Jackson, Joe Goddard and Frank P. Slavin are still in the
race for the championship.

A local poet has sent the following :
All hall the power of Sullivan’s name,

Let all boxers prostrate fall :
Bring forth champion’s diadem
And crown him king of all

No matter what any one may think of Sullivan
personally, no one who has seen him, as I have, fur the past
two weeks, could help admiring his fortitude and grim deter-
mination to reduce his bulk and increase his strength and ac-
tivity, in spite of all obstacies. One of his heels was badly
* chafed and a mosquito bit him on the toe when he was asleep
He picked it with his finger nail and it became very sore; so
much so that he limped perceptibly when he walked; and yet [
have seen him, swathed in heavy woolens and dressed in heavy
clothes, go nine miles, twice a day, and come back #0 wet
with perspiration that it fairly dripped fromm the ends of iis
fingers, while his shoes looked as though he had waded throagh
the canal which connects the Peconie an! Shinnecock Bays.
After these pedestrian trips he would be rubbed down with
coarse towels until his skin glowed like a pale cherry. Oniy
thoxe who have heard him say, after one of these rubbings,
“Oh, how good a cold bottie would co now,” can have any iden
of the ordeal training is to a man of Sullivan's nature and
tastes. To my mind, there is something neroic in his self-denial
and his labor, for he recognizes fully that at his age, and with
the thdatrical prospects betore him. his whole future hinges
upon his defeating Corbett He feels confident that he will win
in a few rounds, and he is fitting himself to make them the most
terrific ever seen inaring. Since he shaved off his mustache
his face looks thinner and more drawn than it did. The fat has
been removed from his stomach, and he isa far more shapely
man now than he was when he faced Jake Kiirain at Richburg.

Arthur A, Zimmerman, the American 6hampien bi-

09D Pider, OH wate een B censetiun by bis Wenderful speed

ona bicyciein England, and who frightened the mile record
breaker, Osmond, from meeting him, has been representing
the stars rnd stripes in Canada, and fairly surprised the Canadi-
ane by beating the best records ever made there. On August
13{ at Toronto, Zimmerman entered in all the races wf the To-
rento Bicycle Clab, and he promised he would beat their records
in exch event. The American champion even d to be
handicapped in the mile race, but he outrode every one and
made «record for Canada in that. He was in splendid form.
The best wheelmen Canada could produce were eppused to him,
but he got away with them all and won every event in whick he
rode. In the quarter mile Zimmerman wou the first heat, with
G. M. Wells, of the Wanderers, second. Time, 33 seconds. The
second hext was won by G. 8 Low, of Montreal, with C. H. Cal-
lahan, of the Press Cycle Club of Buffalo, second. Time, 0:33 3-5
seconds, The final heat was won by Zimmerman in 0:32 8-6.
The Canada record was 83 secouds. The half mile was easily
won by Zimmerman, though he was handicapped. He won tie
final heat in 1:09, with W. & Campbell, Springfield, Mass. , sec-
oud, The secund heat was won by G. &. Low, Montreal, with C.
H. Calinhan, Buffalo, second. Time, 1:10 Zimmerman won
the final heat in 1:08 4-6, with W. Hyslop, Toronto Ciub, second.
The Canadian record was 1:1368. The mile race was well con-
tested, but Zimmerman won it easily. His time was 2:28 2-5.
W. Hyslop, Toronto Club, was second. The Canadian mile rec-

Billy Plimmer, the 110-pound champion of .
land, sailed for England on August 1% Plimmer made his
in America, and he was, I think, one of the best men at his
weight who ever came from England to this country. Piintmer
called at the Poticg Gazettes office before his departure for

England.

Pretty, dashing Frances Milfred writes to the ‘*Po-
lice Gazette” that she would like to be a jockey and emulate
Garrison, Taral and McLaughlin. She is an expert equestrienne
and knows how to handle a horse. It isher ambition to cdme
down the stretch in a whipping finish and land her horse about
two lengths ahead of Fox, Goodale, Overton, Penny and other
slim-waisted young men, who think they can ride. Mi-s Milfred,
after guing to Chieago about a month ago, visited Washington
Park and watched the flyers fur several suceessive days. When
she heard that jockeys made #100 for winning a race, that
settied it. She is a brown-haired, slim young lady of pleasant
features. ‘‘In the first place, my weight is all right," she says.
“I weigh just 110, and could train down, if necessary. [ want

‘to do something to make a living, and I believe I would make a

jockey. Four years agu I was counted the best rider in St. Jow,
and once I won a race ata county fair. I have run horses as
fast as they could go and never was hurt yet. J do hope I'll get
a job.” REFEREE.

GOOD WORK AT THE OARS.

The annual regatta of the Middle States Regatta Association,
at Passaic, N. J.,0on August 18, attracted nearly 16,000 specta-~
tors. Great interest was manifested in the affair, owing to the
fact that Edwin Hedley, probably the fastest amateur stuller
since Charies Courtney’s t me, was to meet Fred Hawkins, an-
other amateur wonder with the oar. Hedley belongs to the
Vesper Boat Club, of Philadelphia, while Hawkins is the cham-
plon of the Manhattan Athletic Club, and is credited! with being
able to row three miles fast enough to defeat Wim. O'Connor,
John Teemer, Edward Hanlon or Jake Gaudaur. Be this true or
untrue Hedley proved himself a superior oareman and speedier
than Hawkins. Just befure the start Hawkins was informed
that he would have to r-w under protest if he started. Haw-
kins was protested at the National régatta held at Saratoga, and
his case is pending decision. The protest was male to protect
the association in case the Saratoga protest is sustained.

Hedley got away well, and txking the lead won handily from
Hawkins, who evidently did not relish the protest. It appeared
as if the Manhattan crack did not put In his best licks to win.
This is the first time Hawkins ever lost a race on the Passaic
course. R

The following is a summary of the events and the results:

Junior Sincgirs—ll. H. Seaton, Institute Boat Club, first;
Fred Kleser, Ainerican Rowing Club, second; James Coughlin,
Varuna Boat Club, third. Time 9 mi » 65 d

SENIOR PatR-OaRKD GiGs—Atalanta Boat Club. M. Law,
bow; W. Law, stroke; J. Kleley. coxswain, first; Atlantic Boat
Cinb, Hoboken, N. J.; H. C. Kuditch, bow; W. Treukomp,
stroke; A. Forst, coxswain second. Time, 9 minutes, 12% sec-
onds.

Junior DouBLe SCULLS—Triton Boat Club, Newark, D. R.
Ward and J. 8. Vinson, first; Passaic Boat Club, W. Hi. Van
Penthoysen and Fred Gaise!, second. Time, § minutes 26\ sec-
onds.

SENIOR SINGLES—Bdwin Hediey, Vesper Boat Club, Philadel-
phia, Orst; Fred Hawkins, M. A. C., second; E. J. Carney, In-
stitute Boat Club, third. Time, 8 minutes 46% d

INTERMEDIATE EIGHT-O\RKD SHELL RACE.—Atalanta Boat
Ciub, New York City—W. F. Kiley, bow; I. Wood, No, 2; V.
Brink, No. 3; H. L. Mever, No 4; J. A. Donohne No, 6; T. Phe-
lan, No, 6; C. Donegan, No. 1; C. E. Donegan, stroke; E. C. Vil-
leverde, coxswalu; first. Palisade Boat Club, Yonkers, N. ¥.—
Fowler, No, 4; F. Weedon, No. 6; W C. Hoff, No. 6; G. Reeves,
No. 7; B Martin, stroke; G. H. stegman, coxswain; second;

JUNIOR FouR OsRED G1Gs—Dauntiless Rowing Club, New York
Cits—F. G. Whitfield, bow; E. L. Nilson, No. 2; J. V. Futhergill,
No*s; BR. A. Monroe, stroke; J. J. McDonald, coxswain: first;
Triton Boat Ciub, Newark, N. J.—O. E. Thurber, bow, Dr. T.
Ripley, No. 2; Robert Osborn, No. 3; A. B. Harris, stroke; Harry
Pollard, Coxswain; second; Union Boat Club, New York City—
T. A. Fitssimmons, bow, F. Feusterer, No. 2; Al. Wolf, No. 3:
Al Brasin, s roke; G. Reynolds, coxswain; third; time, 9 min-
utes 1}g seconds.

Senior Dousi_z ScuLis—Varuna Boat Club—George Freith,
bew; Morgan Quill, stroke; Great; Vesper Boat Club, Philadel-
phin—John G, Park. bow; Edwin Hedley. stroke, second, New
York A. C, third; time, 8 mi o7 di

InveRMEDIATE FouR-OARED SHELIs—Institute Boat Ciub,
Newark, N. J.: J. Gleason, bow; A. Hertig, No 8; J. Osva-
naugh, No. 3, V. Lockmeyer, stroke, first Varuna Boat Cinb,
Brooklyn, N. Y., J. O. Ragan, bow; James Bishop, No. 2; E.
Dunn, No. 3, Joseph Piatt, Jr, stroke, second. Time, § min-
utes 69 seconds.

Jumior Eicut-Oarep SHetis—Staten Island Athletic Ciub:
John Palley, bow, G. L. Catlin, No. 3; P. 8. Wanham, No.8; P.
Wiman, No, 4; H. Leavitt, No. 6; H. Taintor, No. 6; H. W-Rain-
hard, No. 7; 8 H. Rich, stroke; G. White, coxewain, first.
Metropolitan Rowing Club: M. B. Foy, bow; 8 Smith, No. 2:
D. O'Connell, No. 3; J. . ©. Rogg, No. 4; P. H. McDermott,
‘No. 6; A. Jelaneck, No. 6; W. H. Dunlep, No. 7: W. Goodbody,
stroke; G. C. Johuaon, cocewain, second. Time, § minutes 10%
seconds.

INTKRMKDIATE SINGLE ScULLS—R. E. L. Van Sant, Arivl Boat
Club, had a walkover.

Senior FiGut-Oarepd SHKLis—Palisade Boat Club. Yonkers,
N. ¥.: EB W. Jones, bow; H. L Quick, No. 2, J. B. Moffatt, No.
Reeves. No. 1; BE. Martin, Jr. stroke; G@ H. Stegman, cvxewain,
first. Atalanta Boat Ciub: W. F. Kiley, bow; Il. Whod, No. 2;
Phelan, No. 6; ©. Donegan, No. 7; C. BE. Donegan, stroke; EB C.
Villeverde, coxswain, second. Tritun Boat Club, Newark, N. J.:
Charles Wills, bow; J. 8. Vinson, No. 2; M. Milne, No. 3; W.
Ward, No. 7; Cart Sutphen, stroke; W. H. Osborn, coxswain,
third. Time, 7 minutes, 32 a

W. H. Verdon, the well known sporting man of
Dubois, Pa, called at the PoLice Gazretre office recently to
try and make arrangements for Tom McCarthy. pugtlist, of Du-
buls, Pa, to fight any 165-pound man in America for $590 or
$1,000 a side and the largest purse offered by any athletic club.
Verdon Is also anxtons to match McCarthy to fight Billi Slavin.
Jim Daly, Jack Ashton, Jimmy Carroll, Bill Dunn or any puxilist
who does net weigh ove 165 pounds.

A magnificent Ulluminated Catalogue, containing
364 pages and ever 1,000 Hliustrations, -ent teany aidré-s on

r pt of 2% cen’a. If you contempiate purchasing sporth@
or Other goodie you shoul have it. Will save you ten Umes
Bieseee B, Fes, Peptisbar, Fraretie Square, Mow

City.

POINTS FOR GORRESPONDER

THE SEVEN GREAT NOVELS OF THE DAY!

All Translations from the French and
Handsomely Illustrated.

FOX’S SENSATIONAL SERIES

No. I. Baccarat.
No. 2. Fate of a Libertine.
No. 3. Her Love Her Ruin.
No. 4. The Devil’s Compact.
No. §. Pauline’s Caprice.
No. 6. A Guilty Love.
No. 7. The Demi Monde of Paris.

Sent to any address on receipt of price. 50 ceuts each.
RICHARD K. FOX, Publisher.

P. T., Columbus, O. —No.

T. P., Baltimore, Md.—Na.

8. W. P., Harrisburg, Penn.—No.

Ros Ror, Long Island City.—A wins.

@ B. G.. South Fork, Pa.—Porty-seven rounds.

W. P., Rittersville.—J must deal the cards again.

READER, Blessburg, N. M.—1. John L. Sullivan. & Yes.

& W., Utica, N. Y.—1. Wm. O'Connor holds the title. & No.

G. G., Charleston, W. Va. —Thanks for letter Keep us posted.

Kr, Havre de Grace, Md.—1i. Certainly. 2% High counts out
first.

Constant Reapee—We have not a copy of “Burke's Peer-
age.”

a 4, » Vail, lowa —The party on the left of the dealer cate the
cards

P. 8., Casky, Ky.—General admission will be $10, reserved
seats $15.

8. W. G., Hagerstown.—1. No. 2% Sixes are high in throwing
poker dice.

D.C, Trenton, N. J.—Pitch is played precisely the same as
regular ali fours.

H, N., Starkville, Co.—We cannot ascertain correet informa-
tion on the subject,

EB. H, Baltimore, Md.—It is impossibie to give you an authen-
tie on the subject

T. W. C., Rahway, N. J.—Paddy Ryan has met Joha L. Sulll-
van three times tn the ring.

O. M., Little Ferry, N. J.—The fastest time ever made In run-
ning 100 yards is 8 seconds.

T. W. J., Rome, N. ¥.—1. Jack McAuliffe has never bees
beaten in the prize ring. %. No.

W. 8. G, Latonia, Ky —We explained the matter fully in the
last issue of the POLICE GaZzutTs.

N. J., Oll City, Pa.—1. No. 2% Edward Hanian visited Aus-
tralia twice. 3. William U’Connor.

C. J. B., Dayton, O.—Crib, who fonght Pilot, was not a came
dog. Neither were any of his breed

T. W. J., Philadeiphia —1. The lowest deals in casino. & The
card must be left on the table. 38. No.

S., New York City.—1. Dexter and Ethan Allen trotted on the
Fashion Course in the fall of 1868 2 In 1869.

J. 8., Albany, N. ¥.—We have not the adaress of Duncan ©.
Ross. He was in India when we last heard of him.

J. M. B., Mackinac Isiand, Mich.—You fall to state at what
distance. Do you mean haifa mile or one hundred ?

M, W., Taunton, Mass.—1. Billy Edwards only fought once
with Jim Collins. Awins. 2% Probably B meant Sam Collyer.

J. C., Armour, 8. D.—1. Wecannot mail you the PoLick Gia-
ZETTE unless you remit. @ Your item was tov late for publica-
tion,

T. W. C.. Baltimore, Md.—George Siddons, who fought El
Pierce, is not the same Seddons who was beaten by Arthur
Chambers.

Jaxx K., Baltimore, Md.—Paddy Ryan was born in Thurles.
County Tipperary, Ireland, March 16, 1853. He is thirty-nine
years of age. ,

SuBSCRIBER, Osage City, Mo.—Mand 8.’s best time for trotting
one mile is 2:08%. Maud 8.’s time is the fastest ever made over
a cireular track,

K. 8. H., Norfolk, Va.—A straight flush is a sequence of five
cards all of the same sult. Ace, king, queen, knave, ten is the
highest straight.

M. A. K., Brooklyn, N. Y.—In San Franciaco on Nov. 13, 1886,
John L. Sullivan defeated Paddy Ryan in 8 rounds with gloves,
knocking him out.

W. G., Jesup, Ga.—The battle between Peter Jackson and Jim

Corbett ended in the referee ordering the ight stopped and de-

elding it ne contest,

T. R., San Antonio, Tex. —Certainly they lose their standing
asamateurs, The excuse that they did not know their oppo-
nents would not be entertained.

E. B., Topeka, Kano.—The population of New York State in

W. P., Boston, Mass.—Paidy Ryan was twenty-nine years
one month and eight days old when he fought John L. Sullivan
at Mississippi City on Feb 7, 1882.

G. W. B.. Rochester, N. Y.—i. Jack McAniliffe and Jemmy
Carney fought 67 rounds, according to Queensberry rules. 2.
Four hours twenty-seven minutes.

Soiree, Saffaio, N. Y —Straizhts are not always played. It

should thereture be determin.) whether they are to be admitted

at the commencemen* of the gaine.

D. 8, Mt Hohy. N. J.—1. We have no record of John How.
ard, of Bradford, Eng., ever accomplishing such a feat. 3. Lie
Jumped 29 feet 7 inches in a running jump.

2a. B.C., Hoffman House, N. Y. City.—Sanol has trotted a milo

faster than Maud 8, but the former trotted on a kite-shape!
track while Maud & trotted on a circular track.

B. H.. Asbury Park, N. J.—The battie between John L. Sul.!-
van and Charley Mitehell was governed by London priso ring
rules; no gloves were used, and 39 rounds were fought.

W. P R., Chicago, Il!.—Jom Mace appeared four times in a
ring in this country t fight: twice with Joe Coburn, once with
Tom Allen, and once with Ned O' Baldwin, the Irish Giant.

J. H. 8., Boston, Mass.—John L. Sullivan and Paddy Ryan
have met in a ring to fight three times. Once in Mississippi
City, Mist., once in New York, and in San Francisco, Cal. B
loses.

J. B F., Milwaukee, Wis.—John L. Sullivan and Chariey
Mitchell fought thirty-nine rounds when they fought In France.
2 Send 2 cents and we will send you the ‘Life of John L Sul-
livan.”

P. W., & Moc., New York City.—Certainly every player must
foilow suit, if he can unless he chooses to trump. If he has no
card of the suit led he ts not compelled to trump, but may play
a card of any suit he chooses.

J. B.. White Plains, N. Y.—1. We do not know any one claim-
ing that title, There never was a competition tor the cham-
pionship. %. Write to Col. Wm. B. Somerville, Western Union
Genera: Office, Broadway, New York.

M. J.C, Chicago, 1:1.—1. Tom Hyer never went to Engiand to
fight Bill Perry. betrer known as the Tipton Slasher. 2. Tom
Hyer, after he defeated Yankee Su'livan, did challenge The Tip-
tor. Slasher te fight for $6 000 or $10,000 a side.

TurFitE, Philadelphia. —1. The fastest tine on record for run-
ning one mile by « horse in a race is 1 minute 3744 seconds, made
by Kildeer, 91 peunds, at Monmenth Park over a circular track,
on Auguat 13, 1894. 2 The fastest time on recerd for ronning
three-quarters of a mile by a horse is 1 minnte 11k seconds,
made by Queene Trowbridge at Monmouth Park, N. J., on Ang.

W. J, Washington. D. C.—Richard Ten Broeck, the great

turfman, died at San Mateo, Cal., on Aug. 1 1492 In the eigntl-
eth year of his age. Me becan bis turf career in 1635 and did net
retire until 1887. fle owned seme of the best horses that ever
raw in America and many of their records still stand = In 1857
he took « fumber of American-bred horses to England, a d
raced fof seVetal sexsens, with moderate success, his grente-t
Schivvement being the winning of the Cesarewitch Handicav

with Proereet, « daughter of ba Gumpte after o deed best with

Ei Hakim and Queen Boss. He ..00 Wecume fimous in England
as the best matchmaker of his time, an! repeatediy beat the
English turfinen with horses he boug!:t in England. On his re-
turn to America he made his heme and bred horses or a farm
just ontside of Louisville. He had been in bad health fora num-
ber of years, and for a time was an inmate of an insane asylum.

8 J.. Camden, N. J.—1. In 1886 Proctor Enott won the Fae-
turity. 2 The following gives the winners of the Junior Cham-

pion Stakes:

Yr. Winner. wt Jockey. Time.

KR. D., Greenpoint, LL. IL —Lamplighter, the three-year-vild,
who won the Champion Stakes, was bred by James KR. Keone.
Lamplighter was one the good two-year-olds of 1891. Started
16 times, won 6 races. He won the Optional Stakes at Mon-
mouth Park (Jerome Park) % in 1:18, from a field of ten; won a
eweepstakes from all aged horses, 1 mile, at Morris Park, in
1:454¢; Won at 1 1-16 miles, at Baltimore. defeating Judge Mor-
row, Mars and others, in 1:62%; won again at the same distance
and place, beating Portchester, Isanc Lewis, etc., in 1:503g; wen
at 6 furlongs at Washington in 1:15, with 118 pounds, and at
the same distance at Monmouth Park. He ran second, beaten a
neck, for the Cartaret Handicap, in front of Alonso, Asra, Can-
dalabra, King Cadmus, St. Florian and eight others; was sec-
ond fer the Prospect Stakes to Yorkville Bolle, Anishing in front
of St. Flurian, Dagonet, Leonawell, Merry Monarch, Huron,
Phil and others; was third for the Algeria Stakes, and
ran prominently in the Futurity Stakes and Great Eastern Han-
dicap,

T. W. J.. Yonkers, N. ¥.—1. No. & The Dwyer Bros. won
the Champion Stakes three times, with Luke Blackburn, Hindoo
aud Hanover. The following are the winners, ace, weight,
jockeys and time:

Year Winner. Age. W't. Jockey. Time.
1680..Luke Biackburn 3 low J, MeLaughiin...... 2:34
NS re 105 J. McLaughilo ¢

1884. . Miss Woodfurd...... - @ Ws J MecLaughiin

1689. .Lon Angeies.......... @ BAP PRP ROR. cvcccceccses 2:6.
1890 A 4 SOD E. BRPORE.. cccccccd 33%
1802. . Lanipiighter,... .... ] SED GENS. cc cccsccocdéed 2:32),

Natauig, Yale College, New Haven, Conn,—1. Wendell Baker
was considered the best spriut runner that was ever in Harvard
College, Cambridge, Mass. &% Baker while on the cinder path
won many prominent reces, and in doing so was compelled to
outfoot some of the cleverest runners in the country. His long
strides had a telling effect in races over 100 yaris. At one time,
from 220 to 440 yards, he was considered the equal of anybody
in the world. "is record of 47% for 440 yards, made at Boston on
July 1, 1886, on a@ straight track, stlil stands as the best on
record. Another runner claimed to have covered the distance
in 47 2-6, but the time is not regarded as accurate. Mr. Baker
began his career by winning the 100, 220, and 440 Interscholastic
races. Then he carried off the intercolleginte races-at $90 and
440 yards. He failed in the 100 yards dash because of his faliure
ta make @ good start. He is a tall man and rather awkward
runner, and requires plenty of time to get Into his natural jong
stride. Mr. Baker's best performances, aside from his 440 yards
yards, 18. With exception of the 100 and 130 yards perform-
ances, his records are the best on record, either professional or
amateur, ‘

ENGLISH SPORTING NEWS.

The following letter was received from Warren Lewis anent
the Hall and Pritchard fight for $10,000,

Eprtor Pouce Gazetre—I promised when I left New York I
would keep you posted. I hav# seen London and Paris by day
and night and will be glad when I reach New York. Before two
woeks elapse the great match between Jim Hall and Ted Prit-
chard will be deciied and either Hal! will be £1,000 (that ls $5 000
in American money) richer or Pritchard will still pose as un-
beaten. All the stakes are posted, both men are in fret-cinss
condition, and I expect there will be a stubborn battle no matter
who wins.

Pritchard is the favorite, and English turfmen and members
of the clubs I have been Introduced to claim he is the best man
England has produced since Tom Sayers'’s time.

This is hardly fair on Jom Mace, who is still living here, tor I
think, notwithstanding Sayers fought fifteen batties, that Mace
in his day was Sayers'’s equal, and | doubt if Pritchard is as
areata pugilist us Jem Mace. But what is the difference? We
have the greatest pugilists In the world in America In Suilivan,
Fitesimmons, McAuliffe and Dixon, altheugh my money will
back Jim Hall to fight Bob Fitssimmons if Hall defeats Pritch-
ard, but ‘Police Gagette” rules must govern, for when pugil-
lets fight by those rules draws don't come tn.

The Sullivan and Corbett fight is creating considerable talk
bere. Charivy Davies, Joe Choyneki, Peter Jackson and myself
will leave for New York by the first steamer afer Hall and
Pritchard fight, for we want to nee the Sullivan and Corbett
contest,

I met Richard K. Fox. He Is just as busy here as he is in New
York, writing, securing portralts and offering prizes for compe-
tition. He gave an elegant cup for a 800-yard race to be com-
peted fur recently, and he thinks of arranging an international
regatta

George Strong, of Denver, made a poor showing when fight-
ing Tom Euston. Such fighters should stop in Ameries before
they come to England to learn to fight. Euston knocked him
outin the fourth round. There was one satisfaction, Strong
was net @ Trepresoutative American champion, and he did nut
hall from New York.

Peter Jackson, under Charley Davies’ management, has been
coining money. He had a big show at Leeds. Frank P. Siavin
has opened a sporting house in London. He wants to ight
Peter Jackson or the winner of the Sullivan and Corbett fight.
I learn that Billy Madden has secured Joe Goddard. The latter
is lucky and so ls Madden, for with the latter to do the hustling
and Goddard the fighting, there will be plenty of money and
glory for both. Best wishes to all my friends in New York.
No more until I see you. WARREN Lewis.

MINERVA IN SAN ANTONIO.

Minerva, the ‘‘Police Gasette” champion strong woman, has
arrived in San Antonio from Mexico. The [Aght says: “Minerva,
the ‘Police Gazette’ champion strong woman, who from the
great feats she performs is the strongest woman In the world,
has créated quite a turore here by her wonderful feate of
strength, and she has challenged any one in Texas to compete
against her. Minerva is 6 feet 8 inches in height and weighs
186 pounds. She hasan 18-inch bicep and a 144%-Inch forearm. .-
Around the bust she measures 4444 Inches, calf 17% inehes,
thigh 26 inches and waist 83 inches. She is a study fora sculp-
tor, as she has splendid physical development, and her muscies
stand ont like bunches of whipeord. She is one of Richard K.
Pox'’s many Champion atl letes,

“She is here under the management of Prof C. P. Blatt, who
also trains her and is ber teacher. She wresties, spars, ewings
ciube and in fact does all-round athletic work, One of her great
est feats is lifting 500 pounds with her terth while standing on
two chairs. She brenks chains, horseshoes, leather straps and
bends irons, This and many other wonderful feats she will per-
form inthis city secon. Mr Bintt states that he will take two of
the be-t horses in the city and let her take « strap attached to
the swingle tree, one in each hand, and let them pull in oppeste
dir ectlons without letting go. She also catches «a 24-pound can-
non ball fred out of « cannon

“She has astanding challenge of $1,000 to comoete with any
wotuan on earth.”

nn eennienemnniee
Match them if you can. ‘Baccarat,’ 43. 1. ‘*Fate
of « Libertine " Ne. & “Her Love He: Rain,’ ao. 6 “The
Devil's Compact.” No 4 “Pattine’s Caprice.” au. 6. “A Gully
Love.” No. @ ©The Demi-Monde of Paria,” Mo. ?. All of Fox's
Serientional B-ries. 60 Gente eo. All handeomely | Soren
Riemana &. Fan, Publisher, kiln Squere, New York.

perrunil jy
Wyn

TED PRITCHARD KNOCKED OUT
AT BRIGHTON, ENGLAND, IN FOUR ROUNDS, BY JIM HALL, THE SHIFTY AND LONG-REACHING AUSTRALIAN,

WAS IT A FISHY KISS?
A NAUGHTY FISH STRIKES UP A SHARP FLIRTATION WITH MISS KATIE SMUCK, AT. HAMMONDSPORT, N.

BEPT. 3, 1992) THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. 13

AL. LAWSON,

A NEW YORK MANAGER WHO RECENTLY TOOK A BALL TEAM TO ENGLAND TO
TEACH OUR BRITISH COUSINS THE NATIONAL GAME,

aati th QML A CEP Ek ——

PROF. RICHARD WALKER,

A PERTH, WEST AUSTRALIA, GENTLEMAN, WELL KNOWN FOR THE AOTIVE AND
ENTHUSIASTIC INTEREST HE TAKES IN ATHLETIC EXHIBITIONS.

WILLIAM H, REYNOLDS.

THE SHREWD YOUNG BROOKLYN SPORT AND BUSINESS MAN, WHO IS FAMED AS
THE BACKER OF JACK SKELLY, THE FEATHER-WEIGHT PUGILIST.

SAM. W. GUMPERTZ,

A WELL KNOWN AND POPULAR THEATRICAL MAN AND GENERAL REPRESEN-
TATIVE FOR THE JOHN D. HOPKINS ENTERPRISES.

JAMES F. GILLESPIE, BILL HATCHER,

THE ACKNOWLEDGED 140-POUND CHAMPION PUGILIST OF WEST VIRGINIA, READY A PLUCKY AND SCIENTIFIC ENGLISH FIGHTER, WHO IS CONCEDED BY ALL TO BR
TO MEET ANY MAN OF HIS CLASS FOR FAME AND DUCATS, ONE OF THE BEST MEN IN HIS CLASS,

DUR FANUUS TON TONSORALSTS|-

Frank De Biasko, rage 2430 First
Avenue, this City.

We take pleasure in presenting to the notice of our
readers this week a portrait of Frank De Biasko, a
clever young barber and sport, of 2430 First avenue,
this city.

Don’t Tobacco Spit Your Life Away

Inthe startling, truthful title of a little buok just re-
the aA 2, harm-

ceived, telling all about Notobac,

less, ecomomical, guaranteed cure for the tobacco habit in
every form. Tobacco users who want to quit and can't,
by mentioning the POLICE GAZETTE, can get the book
mailed free. Address THE STERLING REMEDY Co.,
Box 752, ludiana Miveral Springs, ludiana.

oa pee eee ee
IMPORTANT NOTICE,

Tae Pouce Gazerre WILL Nor Unper Any Cracum-
STANCES, publish advertisements of a lewd, obscene or
fraudulent character. All advertisements of this class
will be rejected, and money, if sent us for sage,
returned.

The promstoter will not hold himself responsible for
the advertiser's honesty.

RaTE OF ADVERTINING, - + $1.00 per line.
Keapine Notices, - «+ $6.00 per line,

Hereafter all orders for advertising, changes of
copy, etc., must be in a! Friday A. M, of each week to
insure insertion in the ollowing issue.

ONLY TWO WEEKS MORE--SEND
YOUR COPY IN AT ONCE.

IMPORTANT 10 ADVERTISERS!

No. 784 of the POLICE GAZETTE, to be
published on or about SEPT.7, will con-
tain full account and illustrations of the

MYER-McAULIFFE

contast in New Orleans, on Monday evening, Sept. 5.
Copy for this issue must bein by Friday noon, Sept. 2.

No. 785 of the POLICE GAZETTE, ta be
published on or about SATURDAY, SEPT.
10, will contain illustrations and full re-
ports of the

DIXON-SKELLY

—AND—

SULLIVAN-CORBETT| Of

contests in New Orleans, evenings of Sept. 6 and 7.
Copy for this issue must bein by Wednesday noon,
Sept.7. Sales of both issues will be very larie, es-
pecially of No. 785, the contestants in the last of the
three fights being the most prominent pugilists in the
country. NO ADVERTISER CAN AFFORD
TO LOSE THIS OPPORTUNITY.

Police Gazette

Running Shoes,

CORKS, SPIKES,
ETC., ETC.

No. 1, English Spiked,
hand-sewed and light
weight. A first-class shoe

No. 2, Madeof finest Amer-
ican calf, English spikes
and light-weight, price,
BOP WONG. 6 oi00es ocsns $4.00

No. 3, Made of finest im-
ported calf, the finest
shoe made, per pair $6.00

Spikes, per set of 12. ..50c.
The above are sent to

any addreas on receipt of

price,

RICHARD K. FOX,
Franklin Square,
Bew York.

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

PROPRIETARY ARTICLES.

SYPHILIS

A SPECIALTY.

Primary, Secondary or Tertiary Syphilis perman-
ently cured in 30 to 90 days. We elimiuate all poison
from the system, so that there can never be a return
of the disease in any form. Parties can be treated at
home as wellas here (for the same price and under
the same guarantee), but with those who prefer to
come here, we will coutract to cure them or refund al!
mouey and pay entire expense of comiuy, railroad fare
aud hotel bills, if we fail to cure.
Use and

OUR MAGIC REMEDY “ens.”

to cure the most obstinate cases. We challenge the
world fora case we can not cure. Since the history
of medicinea true specific for Sy phili« has been sought
for but never found until our Magic Remedy was dis-
covered. None other | weuuine. Write for references.

Six Years in

COOK REMEDY CO., Omaha, Nebraska.
= Oflice, Thirteenth and Farnam streets. “SB

Orany unnatural! discharge agk
our druggist for a bottle of
G. lt cures in a few da 4
without Oe aid or Bonous” o
doctor. Non- and
guaranteed not to stricture.
The Universal American Cure.

Manufactured by

CINCINNATI, ©,
U.S.A.

RANTS EXTRACT OF
OCUBEBS and COPAIBA
Is an old, tried remedy for
gonorrheea. gleet and 5 ie
eases of the urinary organ
Ite neat, portable My — free:
dom from taste and
action (it speumenty cures
three or four ave and alwa
in less time than any other
gpepaseyee) mane ‘Tarrant’s
xtract” the most desirable
remedy ever manufactured.
To prevent fraud, see that
each package has a red str
across the face of label we
the he signature of TARRANT
» Upon it. Price
$1. 00. Sold by all druggists.

SELF-ABUSE

Cured. Parts Enlarged. FREE Remedy.
A victim of

— ul errors causing Emissions
Sma aad , Varicucele. Nervous
Debility, etc., wit ed) FREB tc all fel-
low-su ferers a simp mm yf: certain self-cure
which meee aoe Sing © in vain all
nown en oe, stamp,
8. FRANKLIN, aca ic Dealer, Marshall, Mich.

dis-
In 48 eure Goncerbas and

urinary organs

— aay ence.

CERTAIN PARTS

Of Body Enlarged. Beware of Bogus Free

Cures. Send for the common sense method. Surest
and ‘ ~ ‘reases Se tonic Pees ! Cures all weak-
ness. pereases | exual Power. . Sealed infor-
maton Free.

ALBION paumeere Co., Albion. Mich., Box 18.

alt REMEDY.

> Ercoas cured Nev erat —, Bt or
ever rns. Re
irke ‘ po ——- a nant teal An

NN ESS: oA DISEASE,
b by edininiater:

NN Spec cau -

en DRI t the MRE ates natant ft itd eaifed,
by peastne} ti ne come , teaor anes oe food

for free circu OL DEN

RPROIFIC Gon 185 Race Sc. Clachewunee

suffering from Lost Mame

age Youthful Er

rors, Spermatorrhoca
Book

Age goa all Private
a yr ye ioe poo A
H. Lowe, insted, Conan.

te _— y MANHOOD RESTORED.

Small, weak organs enlarged.
results of SELF - ABUSE panne Beta mpotency and
excess positively cured in fifteen days. Will send
(sealed) FREE to sufferers a recipe that cures. Address
with stamp, L. 8. Roscoxz, South Bend, Ind.

pecsra SANDAL woop CAPSULES are
the best and only capsules made that are pres-
cribed by reular p Vy for the cure of Gonor-
rhea and discha the urinary o Sever-
est cases cured in y days: $1.50 per box; alld drugwists.

UL VIGOR restored an
Xai ee ees bre a

LAW YERS.
A. speclal facilities: Ho —4 years’ None oa

Yafety rubber gated boxes, One rnbber sample 25
eents, 3 for 50c., 5a for $1. Circular of sensational
books 2 iampe, ScoTT, 21 Ann St., New York.

HURRAR FOR Th

THe CAMPAIGN

OFFICIAL

REPUBLICAN AND DEMOCRATIC
BUTTONS,

Adopted by Both Conventions,
1892. Made of the Finest
American Woven Silk.

Sent to any address upon receipt of price,
as follows:

BUTTONS.

With metallic back, nickel rim and with steel
engraving of the candidates on celluloid. The
buttons made for the price.

late
best

by express, $3.00

All orders t to receive prompt attention must be ac-
companied by the cash, as vone Ro be sent C. O. *D.

Bo that partis ordering and wan mwiths sent them
at once, will do well by complying ww bove rule.
Send all orders and remittan

RICHARD K. ‘Fox,
Franklin Square, New York City.

DERMA-ROYALE.

LOVELY FACES,

WHITE HANDS.

Nothing will
WHITEN and CLEAR

The new discovery for
= ing and memoving discolorations from the cuticle,
= and bleaching and brightening the complexion. In
= experimenting in the laundry with a new bleach for
fine fabrics it was discovered that all spots, freck|
tan, and other discolorations were quickly remov
fom the hands and arms without the slightest in-
ry to the skin. The seepovesy was submitted to
experienced Dermatologists and Physicians who pre-
red for us the formula of the marvelous Derma-
oyale. THERE NEVER WAS ANYTHING LIKE 1p, It is
perfectly harmless and so simple a child can nee it.
Apply at night—the improvement apparent after a

CAMPAIGN COAT OR CUFF

single application will surprise and delight you. It
quickly dissolves and removes the worst forms of
moth-patches, brown or liver spots, freckles, black-
heads, blotches, sallowness, redness, tan and every
discoloration of the cuticle. One bottle completely
removes and cures the most aggravated case
ge clears, whitens rt utifies the com-
lexion. It has never failed—1t CANNOT FAIL. It is
ighly recommended by Physicians and its sure
results warrant us in offering
—To assure the public of ite
REWARD. merits we agree to forfeit
Five Hundred Dollars cast, for any case of moth-
patches, brown spots, liver spots, blackheads, ugly
or muddy skin, unnatural redness, freckles, tan or
any other cutaneous discolorations,(excepting birth
marks, scars, and those of a ecrofulous or kind
nature) that Derma-Royale will not quickly remove
and cure. We also agree to forfeit Five Hundred
Dollars to any person whose skin can be injured in
the slightest possible manner, or to anyone whose
complexion (no matter in how bad condition it —
be), will not be cleared, whitened, improved
beautified by the use of Derma-Royale.
Put up in elegant style in large eight-onnee bottles,
Price, $1.00. EVERY BOTTLE GUARANTEED,

Derma-Royale sent to any address, safely packed
@ and securely sealed from observation, safe delivery
aranteed, on receipt of price, $1.00 per bottle.
nd money by registered letter or money order with
= 3 your full post-office address written ly; be sure
to give your County, and mention this paper.
= Correspondence pon yf private. Postage stamps
= received the same as cash

AGENTS WANTED fs: :2ez: $10 4 DAY,

Address The on «heb ‘COMPANY,

omit

Lice, etc. A sure thing sent free
to bay pos on ney of 4c, stamps
ddress or call

Bri a, eee ey

CLUB ROOM GOODS

and sporting goods of every description. Rg
goods, cards, xc., made to order. Send s for
catalogue. Harris & Uo., {1 Fourth Ave., 3 ork,

Spica. EW HOLDOUT adaress,@

R. Wacrermire, Spencertown, N.Y.

SURE THING DICE AND CARDS £2,,4!

OGDEN & CO., BOX 233, CHICAGO. *

panera s4NS2 10

JEWELRY SPINDLES, Y7heels, Race anc

Fair Goods. 64

Cat.forstamp. HENRY, 279 May mon CHIC.
arked Playing Cards. New System. Easy to read
M and a hard tod detect. Pack by mail. with Ley 50c.
ddress CHAMPION CaRD ComPakyY. Bridgewater,

ase.

Rd ascent

for $6 % Tremont Row. Bosto

Corner Baker und Vine Streets. OINOINNATI OHIO.
SPORTING GOODS. citi
How to win at Cards, PHOTOGRAPHS.

Fol} jongth, females, from life, 10c,

34 PHOTO O. Box 1290, Providence, RK. 1.

ATEST KOURLTIES IN PHOTOS. Apply
A. DIECKMANN, Amsterdam, Holland.

499 Pictures of 115 beautiful ladies, hovel f faces
eee wnd forms, Free. G., Box 1051, Chicago, Ill.

20 pictures sweet self 10c. Lock Box 10, Augusta, Me,
Photos, Fancy, 12 Samples, 6c. Box 231, Chicago, IIL
Puotos (6) fancy samples,4c. Box 491, Baltimore, Md
Women, from life, 0c. & stp. G., Box 114, Bklyn. N. Y.

BOOKS PROTOS: Circular for two atamps.
. ScoTT, 21 Ann Street, New York.

ucous disch eruptions of all kinds speedily
M removed by the i. E Meds edical Institute's Nervone
Debility Pilis, $1 per box. 6 for $5. Sent postpaid.

ii TOILET ARTICLES.

Rie F bag ey ay Remedy, an h broke of

Phowcs, Momey Mak-

rae est Le

aeons
Smith Co., Palatine, Ils,

a specialty. Moderate c

nas of men charges and
bonorable tre treatinant. Address or call on N. KE.
Medica] Institute. % Tremont Row. Boston. Mass.

FOX’S SENSATIONAL SERIES NO. 7.

Fail to Read It.

THE DEMI-MONDE OF PARIS

BY BARON SAXE.

of Your Life if You

will Miss
Price, by Mail, 50 Cents.

No. 1.—-Baccarat.
No. 3.—Her Love Her Ruin.

No. §5.--Pauline’s Caprice.

PY wee
TERR
~~ ray

SagP

Faas

qo. oh
Oo 2 Qo

OQ ee
o > Oo

me oe

The Following Volumes of the Series Have Been Published:
No. 2.—-The Fate of a Libertine.

No. 6.——A Guilty Love.
No. 7.—The Demi-Monde of Paris.

fexione eK onlacyse @ ont de-
» Lier. 24 Tremont Ko Bow. Boston, Mass, Copy righted)

The above books are all completely illustrated, and are for sale by all newsdealers, or will be sent by mail
to any address, securely wrapped, on receipt of price, 50 CENTS cach, by

RICHARD K. FOX, Publisher, Franklin Square, New Yorx,

S SSNS Se4 oR 2 wit OC

l vs

eee se eee ee

PUBLICATIONS.

A BOOK FOR EVERY MAN

OW THYSELF.

K SELF-PRESERVATION. A new and only
Gold Medal PRIZ*®. ESSAY on NF RVOUS and
PHYSICAL DEBItITY. ERRORS of
YOUTH, EXHAUSTED VITALITY, PRE-
MATURE DECLINE, and all merge
and WEAKNESSES of MAN. 300 pages, cloth

It; 125 invaluable poopptons, Only $1. 00

y mail, double seale
with endorsements of
the Press and voluntar F te & 2 !
testimonials of the cur

Consultation in person or by mail. Expert treat-
ment. INVIOLABLE SECRECY and CER-
TAIN CURE. Address Dr. W. H. Parker, or
The Peabody Medical Institute, No. 4 Bulfinch 8t.,
Boston, Mass.

The } Science of Life, or Self-Preservation, is a
treasure more valuable than gold. Read it now,
every WEAK and NERVOUS man, and Jearn to
be ING and MANLY.— Medical Review.

sposerig ies Prospectus, '

THE

MEDICAL.

N ATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: _NEW YORK. | 15

MEDICAL.

pebute . of. ott, are the
caress Zeaton, Siekly reGalldhesd, Nerve,

and Barren Old

Age are the result, sone eet, aralysis, Ineanity

pee lalec menace over? © victim of early fo a
THERE 18 HOPE FOR ALL in the Fre

fioepital K Remedies ef Prof. Civiale. K Fir! E E
ving all the facts «nd the most convincing

ving Testimonials in every State. Tetabiebed 1 1550.

ree Mail or Office Consuitation.

9 $x guteene op fo AO Sg

| CIVIALE AGENCY, Tra ihe: Hi, BT |

for $ a Bottle and ym py tee to
86 Orange street, Newark. NJ

TRIAL. Parts enlarged. Abuse
Emiseions, Varicocele, etc , cured (Qe.
stump.) ACTON Mgv, Co., Wasb.. D. C.

pa’ J INJECTION CURE for all Contagious
oe: seases, either barmless. Seng $1.00

of Errore of Youth completely removed;

NOT AT THE BOOK STORES!

Sent Postpaid, on receipt of 30 Cents. BOOKS OF
THE BIBLE ANALYZED, A PEERLESS
SPOOLHOLDER AND A USEFUL REC-
IPE! Not on Saleatany Store? You Must send 30
Cents Direct to Publisher now.

THE BOOK ANTIQUARY, Easton, Pa.

“SECRETS” * fox tee”

MAILED SECURE. 10 CENTs SILVER

Or Six 2 Cent Stamps.
P. 0. BOX 148. DETROIT, MICH,

TSF BEST BOOK EVER PRINTED.
ery slevating. Nothing iow. cranes into
Euglish, $5.00. Sample e 10

BREW-
ereR. Box 2, 261 West) 14th Street, gS York City.

“LATEST SONGS and List of 5000.
150 # other Songs for 10 cents. Address
H. J. Wehman, 182 Park Row, New York —

‘MARRIAGE PAPER FREE

NELL’S MONTHLY, Toledo, Ohio.

SEE HER —Send 35c. in stamps and get ® Merits
Fair Bartender’s Guide a
W. B. BawpERsoN, 1004 E. Fifty-first St., Chieaxo, fil.

CU iTé AR self-taught without ms poten: & bd chepte 500

BANJO without notes (80
Tir. # cat. of inst’s free. E.C.Howe, vite Ee iass

Nit emiesions, waste in the unune germane eaty
cured. Use Ni arene Debility Pilis, $1 re, so.S
for $%. N. & Med. inet . 24 ‘remount Kow. Bosto

PYoTas: Circular for two stamps.
. Scott, 21 Aun Street, New York.

MISCELLANEOUS.

is not easily earned in these times, but it can be made

by any one of either sex in any part of the couniry,

who is willing to work industriously at the employ-

ment which we furnish. The labor is hebt and pleas-

ant, and you run no risk whatever. We start yon. You

can «iret the ven ‘a trial without UNTEY to your-
PORTU Y

self. HE ER
OFFERED BOR THOSE WILLING TO

« Women make as much as men. Send for
an private terms and .particulars which wé mail

H. HALLETT & CO.,
Box 1752, PORTLAND, MAINE.

COE, YONCE & CO.

M*NUFACTURF RS OF

Walking Canes.
oe of Cutlery.

es, &c. bag By Pe
Sessetmen, A and
co Cane Racks and Enife Stands

roo Wasawonont AVE, bf LOUIS, x0

STERLING’S ROYAL REMEDY

A Positive Cure Cuaranteed for the
most dreadful of diseases.

~~ Y ori tL is.

This Remedy is prepared in two bottles. No. 1 is taken 3 times

daily, No. 2 at night

the poison is exte rminated and drawn from the system through a

principe um sctene e unknown before the discovery of —_ wonderful
urifier

Borer Sa through t

the ALTERNATE ACTION of these medicines

Send for ps paver containing his

Rory of and
@ ALTERNATE ACTION of John Sterling’ s
phiet sent free. Address

THE JOHN STERLING ROYAL REMEDY C0.

- Mos. (26-131 W, oe St. nly a KANSAS CITY, MO.

ola

Lifes t
“A TREATISE FOR MEN C Aon
Eatirely Free, in p

Ev MAN cho wate heow the GRAND TRUTHS, the Plain Facts, the
New, Diseoveries of Medical Science as applied to to

te for our wesderful littie
To any earnest man we will mail one
quacks.”

ood red by the N copy ain sealed cover. “A refuge from the
Debility Pills Address 8. K MRD. lxurrrure. Doston. THE ERIE MEDICAL CO., BUFFALO, MN. ¥.

PERSONAL. MEDICAL.

MEDICAL.

GETMARRIED a ce te

Vy, debility mounts. Thousands of cases
cured by &% ervous Debility Pille, $1 per box, 6
for $a. E. Mzp. Inet., 24 Tremont Row. nD.

Srtety Rubber Match Boxes, One rubber sample 25
centa, 3 for 50c.; 8 for $1. Circular of sensational
books, 2 stamps. W.Scorr, 21 Ann St,, New York.

BOOKS ! PHOTOS, &c. Send stamp for circu-
lar. C. Connkoy, 122 Park Row, New York

‘PIANOS AND ORGANS,

BEATT Pianos, Organs, $233 up. Want Ag’ts. Cat'l'¢
FREE. Dau'l F. Beatty, Washington, N. J.

NMG MONEY ANE

THE GREATEST NOVELTY
EVER INVENTED.

It vill Mystify and Amuse Your Friends

[Patented June 3d, 1891.)

Five Bills Sent Free
with Each Machine.

R. taking a common, ordinary piece of blank popes
inseruny between the rollers, and then turnin
the crank, you can produce bills of an donominaion.
and no ove, not even an expert, can detect differente
from genuine. You cannot afford to be without one
of these machines, as wit’: it you can have more real
tun and pleasure than with any other novelty ever

put on the market.

Each one packed in a box, with fall direc-
tions how to work it.

Price of Single Machine, by Express,50c.
If sent by mail, 10c, extra.

All orders must be accompanied by the cash to se-
cure prompt attention, as no goods will be sent other-
wise, Send all orders made payable to

RICHARD K. FOX,
Franklin Square, - New York oe

25c. POCKET CAMERA.

You can “Snap Shot” your
friends anywhere IN ANY
LIGHT aud have more
fun than the “Goats”
CA RA mailed on_re-
ceipt of 25 cents silver
or stamps Address

P. HUNNEFORD,

Interesting Books and Photographs.

Catalogue 5 Cents; with Samples, $1.
E. F. A. SOHLOEFFEL, Publisher, Amsterdam, Holland.

“The Police Gazette Ink”

Used on this’ paper is manufactured expressly by
FRED ‘x H. Lever & Uo., 50 Beekman Street, New York.

Electrotypes Got them made 04 Ralebeck

Vandewater street, New York.

Heat and Vi , pestayed by our famous
‘Nervone ‘De ility Pills. r box. 6 for $3.
Medical Institute, 3. Tremont Kow. boston.

AGENTS WANTED.
UY AGENTS $10 ==3* ea eee

Emissions and Waste stopped by umng our Nervous
Deb Pills: $1 per box : 6 for $8, paid.
>. re Mix. Luwr., 24 Tremont Kow, Boswwn, Mass,

BOXING CLOVES.

The ** Police Gazette”
Champion Boxing
Gloves.

Made from special In-
dian tan and finest of
brown kid, pronounced
by the profession as
being the bes Gove
ever made pars 8
ri en ed wrists, and
fill with =~ of

4. 6 and 8 ounce
weights. Price per set of four, $7. 60.’ When sending
order state color and weight d

EXHIBITION GLOVES.

Made of h.oest white and
brown kid, finished in Al
style and equal to an
giove now made. Six an
eicht ounces in weicht.
Price per set of four, $6.00,

B swapsare es GLOVES.

——_ yw 4 kid, and best
p or the price ever
made. Six and eight ounces
in weivht. Price per set of

Sent by express to any ad-
dress upon recei t of price.

If sent by mail 50 cents additional to above prices.

Address all orders to
RICHARD K. FOX,
Franklin § uare, «© - = New York City-

which will cure most cases, f

HORS OF YOUTH

Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Youthful Indiscre-
taona, Lost Manhood,

BE YOUR OWN PHYSICIAN !

M men, from the effects of youthful imprudence,
have bronght about a state of weakness that has re-

duced the general system so much as to induce almost
every other disease. y the A. cause of the trouble
scarcely ever being su Red, the y are doctored for
everything b but the right o one. otwithstanding the
many valuable remedies that medical science has pro-
duced for the relief of this class of patients, none of
the ordi modes of treatment effectacure. During
our extensive college and hospital practice we have
experimented with and discovered new and concen-
trated remedies. The accompanying prescription is
Offered asacertain and opqeey cu cure.e eindrede

of cases in our practice bav rfect
bealth by its use after al! other ee faile Per-
fectly pure i a monet be used in the preparation

of this ie presc pate
roxylon coca, 4 drachm.
eae md drachm
Helonias Dioica, 6 drachm.
Gelsemin, 8 grain
Ext. ignatin cmere (aicobolic), 2 grains.
he An. ~—.e 2 scruples.

Mix
Make 9 vilis. °*Take. one pill ata. Pp. m., and another on
ing to bad some cases it will be neceasary for

@ patient to BS two wile at bedtime, making the
number three a day. This remedy is adapted to every
condition of servaus debility and weakness in either
sex. and especially ally * those cases resulting from im-

rudence. e meget | wers of 8 restora-

ve are tru aatouiahit use continued for a
short time changes th the fang nid, Le @ pon nerveless
condition to one of sonewel life and

AS we are constantly in receipt of le r. of a
relative to thie remedy, we would say to
would prefer to obtain it from us, oy remitting fie
securely sealed rackawe containing @ pi hy
compounded, 1 be sent by poreee., 2 from our
private aac. or we, — 6 packages,

or_cal) on

NEW ENGLAND MEDIOAL INSTITUTE,
24 Tremont how, Boston. Mass.

(Copy nght 1888, by F. B. Hiller.)

the marvelous French
Memedy CALTHOS free, ands
al guarantee that CaLtuos will

Bp a Hee

gt ttand pay tf sathified.
Address, VON MOHL CO.
American Agents, Cincinnati, Ohie.

SEXUAL POWER

and Permanently Restored fm 3 to 0 Gage,
effects im 24 hours: almost immediate rellet. ‘Ko

contr ib know

of sone tect aare so sgpring full partcnlare. Ad- Ad-,

GURE YOURSELF.

| pec SPECIFIC Bovee — to, $ re ot
of the urinary orga
dive ro ition. Full direction» with po at?
rice $1. Sold only by EK. L. STagL, drnuxiat, 1 3
an Buren Street, corner Fifth Avenue, Chicago, Il.
Sent by express on receipt of price.

I CURED of Hey ison, and pormenentty

Varicocele, fo and Seal Wasted
~ Shrunken Organs, enused by Self-

Abuse, have been fully restored
through me. I will mai! the means of this
UNFAILING SELF-CURE (sealed) FREE!
Inclose stamp. C, C, CRANE, Marengo, Mich.

MANHOO ry mech elt Rauxor

de, having trea one is apd
es p vain
Mn ng bm of 7 San which he
rat to his fellow fe pr A

case of Varicocele a

Nervous Weakness, Vree.

WEAK MEN

$500 REWARD pr. Palmer’s May Apple and
* Pennyroyal Female Regula bE

lis. Guaranteed io Relieve where all others fat
e only safe and always reliable pill. Mailed for $1.

C. A. Druygvist, 280 Broadway, Buffalo, N. Y
PRIVA 30 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE IN
treating private diseases. On receipt
of $1 will send formula that will eure any case

of zonorrha@a or wleet. Address

J. A. Sev mour, Lock Box 2362, Battle Creek, Mich.

delicious MIEKICA AN CONF IC en PUL.
of fruita.h ants. ae most UL
e Vigor, Snap ealth

co heorered
ddress, J. C. MASON,

Willsend Recipe that is
Warranted to cure an

r. Fuller’s Pocket Injection, Syrmnue combined,
cnres any case of Gonorrha@a, Gleet or Whites.
All Druggiatas. $1. Office. 420 « ‘anal St.. New York.
] r. De Hardt’s Penn royal Pills. The only
wennine Pennyroyal Pills made. At drugywist, or by
mail, $1.00. Office: 203 N. 9th St.. Philadelphia, Pa.

[pesaertenit to marnage removed b sing our
Nervous Debility Pille; $1 per box; 6 for $6.
N. KE. MuepicaL Lusr7Turs, 2% mont Kow,

ton Mase | 3

EARLY DECAY.

Yoursrut InpreorETion (self-abuse or excess) re
suits in complaints such as Loss OF MEMORY, SPOTS
BEFORE THE EYES, Py SMELL, HEARING AND
TASTE, NERVOUSNESS, WEAK BACK, OONSTIPATION,
NIGHT EMISSIONS, LOSS OF oo cams, POWER, ETO., ETO.
‘- 5 OLD, 8 pemne trons
tions: lead 8
4 LINGERING DEA
orance and folly, causes many. to
oven commit suroms, and large num
days amidst the horrors of INSANE ASYLUMS.
FAILURE IN BUSINESS and the RUINATION OF HOMES are
Wit 1o the ou of ERRORS OF inne
Belle Yo 5 ONE MO pampered
ese tho a is of AT" eal Or you

sooept your own physician? Medicine alone never did
and never will eure the diseases resulting Fa Wg ve
sduse. If you will bare 9 Remens that is Pe
as well as Cheap, and so Simple you can goctor your Sci
self. send your address, with stamp Sor vouky
mai) you a description of an INeTR
NIGHT, and this maT NEVER FAILING

as. WILSON, se Be rman, Om.
MENTION THIS

NO oure, NO PAY
At ax EL AUAPTEE Te tt

esac

parts rene cae nearest you hey ~1 lin
sie WAY

Eenlonone stopped

LI use, also a

peroaret eit veertain isco}

eran ay reais ATES, Box

FREE ror WEAK. C MEN

New,

Ing cure, ne hyn gh oo ag me —
free to any sufferer, a
ae enlarge cmall w
and certain ions. Va for

tmpotency. sie House.

STRICTURE! Grsseree

a Tithons cutting, canstico oF dilatation. Cures
eb eet yuthoss a.
" ry w
A ane alpo gases all LC. a and rrita-
or circulare rate.
venteenth and Curtis Streets, Denver, Uolo.

MEN WHO INTEND TO MARRY

Should see the Macic Mraror. It may concern them.
Forewarned is forearmed, tis and free b: it to
apy address at Home or A Address—

BETARY, 4 FITZALLAN SQUARE, . eg
Write to-day and name this paper. Established eare,

REE CURE SSS

ome Gy Self-Abuse! Was q Pon View’
ie bya deen ie NeweCurewbion I will send
{ocaled)

' address L. C. HOWARD, Marshall, Mich

Parte. DY! Manhood Restored
larged. I unre found a cer.
tain L ee gare I send th

6 reci pe
(sealed) free. It is a rel
scaled) Ives. Wt B eon we ding en Mich,

y acqueen’s Matico Injection. A preventive

and specific cure for Gonorrhea, Gleet and all
urinary troubles, without the nnpleasant results from
swallowing nauseous medicines. Price ,$1. All arnegiste.

VARICOCELE®:;::; duets
the recipe that cured
_ Free Maseheth, aa vi Ae

TRICTURES AND GRAY L a
without surgical operation. lief almost
from first dose. Sen «stamp for circular to the
ENTERPRISE MEDICINE (o., Petoskey, Mich.

SYervo Power recovered permanentiy ; use our
perepue Debility Pills: $1 per box, 6 for $6, post
_E. Mep. Inet. 2% Tremont Kow. Boston.

, Albion, Mich:

Particulars 4 cents. FELIX @ CHEMI-

${°2 1a. PEN-TAN” Female Pills, by mail post
baL Co Company, Baltimore, Md.

Mosphine Mabic Cured in 10

UM ete: No till cured,

OPI Dr. J. 7 baad & toy a
wend for DR, LOBB’

ony Street, Phila., Pa

Dr. Fuller's Youthful Vigor Pills. For lost

manhood, eee? ow mf my” By moe
2. All druggists. Office, 429 Canal Street, Ne

W YOR,

Ve HE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: _NEW YORK, —

TWN Hr ‘| iit

if Hi

HALL

ill

HLL

YY Yi

Yfff

Vif Vif] , j ij /
HY YYy, WY YY)
YY} YY ff f Y YY ij
Wij Yf Wf

Yy ] Yyf

NT, WHS j Yj Hi, if) Why Vy Vij jj Yij/j Ui // if Vf
iff} YY TY WY if) yf YY iif
HUNT, LY YY) HWY UY, WM) YMA

SHE DROPPED ’EM.

A WASHINGTON, D. C., BELLE MEETS WITH AN ACCIDENT AND LOSES HER SKIRTS WHILE RIDING A TRICYCLE


=== sim_national-police-gazette_1905-07-29_87_1459 ===

of the Baseball Series this Week

ay a +

COPYRIGHTED FOR 195 BY THE PROPRIETOR, RICHAKD K. FOX, THE FOX BUILDING, FRANKLIN SQUARE, NEW YORK CITY.

HER MORNING DIP.
A NYMPH OF THE JERSEY SHORE ABOUT TO FLING HERSELF INTO OLD NEPTUNE’S ARMS.

Established 1846.

RICHARD K. FOX,

EDITOR AND PROPRIETOR,

WITH A FEW CALCIUM

FLASHES IN BETWEEN

—FOOTLIGHT FANCIES

rramntin Savane, New vor ry Items of Interest About the Clever Entertainers Who

Entered at the Post-oi.ce, New York, N. Y.,
as Second-class Mall Matter.

SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $4.00 PER YEAR.

ISSUED EVERY WEEK.

FREE SUPPLEMENT WITH THIS ISSUE:
Roger Bresnahan, New York Nationals
Great Backstop and Class A Batter.

MISCELLANEOUS SPORTS.

Whimsical, a two-year-old, bought for 840
at auction, bas won a couple of races recently.

Ralph Rose will attempt to break the dis-
cus-throwing record, at Portland, Ore., August 4,

Jockey Dugan, after a successful trip to
France, has returned to riie on the Eastern tracks,

Frank Gotch, the wrestler,
handy with the mitts,
Marvin Hart.

Winnie Wilkes, 2:17'4, owned by R. P.
M, Greely, Oakland, Cal., has foaled a fine filly by
Searchlight, 2:033,.

Elastic Pointer, 2:06, is rounding into
shape for the season’s racing. Ie recently stepped
a mile in 2:12, finishing fresh.

who is also

muy te matched to meet

The pacer Cordina was recently sold to
I, W. Gieason, Out of sixteen starts lust year Cordina
won first money fourteen times.

Canadian horsemen look for a mile in
2:10 this year by the black mare Irene D, 2:17, by
Simon, also sire of Free Bond, 2:01%.

The Western jockey, Dominick, will ride
for the Whitney stable. He was told that plenty of
mounts would be tendered him at Saratoga.

The noted five-year-old horse, McGee,
the best of the many horses Ed Corrigan imported to
this country after his English invasion, has been re-
tired permanently from the turf.

Belle Perrin, owned by H. M. Bean,
Camden, had the misfortune to break a tendon which
was fracture.i some two years ago, The mare had a
record of 2:13, and was bought at the New York sale
last Fall. The uccident means her permanent retire-
ment from the race track.

The Ten Eyck family, who are famous in
rowing circles, made a move into swimming events
recently, at the swimming gala of the South Barre
Swimming Club, held at Lake Middlebrook. James
Ten Eyck, won two races handily, the 200-yard scratch,
open to all, and the 150-yard handicap.

SEND ~~

eeeeYOURe ee @

ATHLETIC
AND CROUP
PHOTOCRAPHS

TO THIS
OFFICE FOR

PUBLICATION

IN THE

POLICE
CAZETTE

NO CHARCE.

RICHARD K. FOX, Publisher,
New York City.

PHYSICAL CULTURE FOR LADIES, Written by Belle Gordon, is

Play in Halls and

Continuous Houses.

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

THEATRICAL FACTS—

LET POLICE GAZETTE READERS KNOW ABOUT YOU

All Professionals Are Invited to Send in Bricf Paragraphs About Themselves
and Photos in Character For Publication on This Page.

Annette Wiltsie has signed with Phil Sheri-
dan’s City Sports, to play soubrette.

Henry Curtis, who was musical director
last season with the “Hooligan’s Troubles’ Company

Al M. Friend has left the stage and en-
tered mercantile life in New York City.

The Bowery Newsboys Quartette (Sher-
wood, Fox, Faulkner and Peck), after closing tteir

LEONA LA MAR.

The Charming whose

Favorite Wherever She Has Appeared

Dancing Soubrette

(Western), is leader of the orchestra at the Palm ,
Theatre, Cripple Creek, Colo., for the Summer.

Ike Altman, “The Songster,’’ has closed a

successful season of forty-two weeks in the Northwest.

Billy “Swede” Halland “Jolly ’ Jennie Col-
burn report meeting with continued success with their
new act, “Olson, the Coal Muan.”’

Katherine Willard will shortly presenta
new comedy sketch, entitled **‘A Gypsy Wooing,”
ten for her by John T. Prince, Jr.

writ-

Stella Gilmore has signed again with Hyde’s
Blue Ribbon Girls Company. She is spending the en-

tire Summer in the Pocono Mountains.

The Two Famous Brooks, in “The Egyp-
tian Box Mystery,” have joined the Covent Garden
Dramatic Company, for a term of two years.

a successful four
Fatima’s “Streets of
Ile

Jean Melville closed
weeks’ engagement with La Belle
Cairo” Company, recently, at St Marys, Ohio,

was featured in his French and Algerian dances,

Gregory and Wood have dissolved partner-

Francis Wood will work alone in his new orig!

entitled

ship.
nal
scenery, stage setting,

act. “Looping the Hoops.”’ with special

and will use five hundred hoops.

Made Her
Assured Her.

and Talent Have

and a Bright Future

Beauty a

Summer engagement at Sans Souci Park, Chicago, will
go with Clarke’s Runaway Girls for next season.
Tariton and Tarlton are with the Brecken-
ridge Stock Company, doing their musical specialties.
Billy Young is still interlocutor and gen-
eral “straight man”’ for the Original Georgia Minstrels,
and is re-engaged for next season.

Fields and Wolley have signed with Billy
S. Clifford to play the two German comedy parts in
the new musical comedy, **The Jolly Barons.”’

May Baker and Della Ranney have been
offered return engugements at every place they have
appeared since their debut in vaudeville last April.

Fredo and Dare report meeting with big
success in their new act. They are booked nearly solid

for the coming season in the leading vaudeville houses,

Susie Goodwin, the Tennessee coon shouter

and monologist. is scoring quite a success over the

Kansas park circuit, and is booked solid until Septem-

ALL GOOD MIXED DRINKS
Will be found in Charley Mahoney’s Hoff-
man House It

25 cents; postage

Bartender’s Guide. is hand-
somely illustrated.

4 cents extra.

Price

ber. She wilithen play the J. M. Nash circuit, y

the Danforth circuit to follow.

Clemo and Cassels report success with th,
act, entitled **Ginger.”’

The Musical Bartletts are success«fu)
pluying the Nasb circuit in the Northwest.

The Trocadero Quartette will tour |
Harry Hawn circuit forthe rest of the Summer seu

Mrs. Al H. Burton has been playing par“. .

and still bas a good circuit of parks booked for

Summer.

J. C. Mack, of Monroe, Mack and La
rence, is managing the Summer theatre at Pity
Grove, N. J.

Ricton, the juggler, has quit the juggli:.
line for cood. Next September be manages his oy
big com pany.

Mile. Espangnola has signed with Clar«
Mathes Company for next season, as musical direct
and to Gc her specialties.

Dave Strait is doing his human frog con-
tortion act with the Gus Dionne Shows, and reporis
meeting with great success.

Clivette,and his wife, Mme. Clivette, wer+
pleasantly entertained by Mr. and Mrs. Shouse, wh)\\
in Kansas City, Mo., recently.

The Bradfords report much success with
their act, ‘A Hot Time in Coontown,”’ and have sé
eral weeks booked at parks in Canada and the Unite!
States,

The White City Vaudeville opened at
Sheutzen Park, Dubuque, la., under the management
of Jake Rosenthal, who is also manager of the Bijou,
that city.

Norman, “The Frog Man,” has cancelled his
engagement with Frank P. Spellman. He will play
the Shayne & Melville parks for the rest of the Sum-
mer season,

May and Miles are playing in Southern
California, They will shortly start Eastward, and are
booked through the middle States until the latter part
ot October.

Florence Moore, “The Irish Queen,’’ will
be with the Jolly Grass Widows the coming season.
Miss Moore is at present in stock, at the Trocadero
Theatre, Chicago.

Sam Gordon, of Burns and Gordon, and
Emma Chacon, of Archer’s Filipino Girls, have Joined
hands. They willbe known as Gordon and Chacon,
and are now on Fiynn’s park circuit.

“The Dance of the Passions,” a beautiful
dance, is the feature of the novelty act presented by
Esteile Clayton and the Physical Culture Girls. The
act is entitled ‘The Women Beautiful.’

George Hardt, of Collins and Hardt, has
joined bands with William G, Le Ciair, and the team
will be known as Le Clair and Hardt. ‘They will pro-
duce the same act—burlesque strong men.

Henry and Young, after playing a number
of successful Spring dates, are now touring Long Island
with Sherman & De Forest’s Company. They write
that the company is meeting with success,

The Tasmanian Troupe, ‘‘Daughters of the
Gladiator,’’ are rapidly booking time. These ladies
made a pronounced success over Hyde & Behman’s
and Sbea’s circuits with their acrobatic act.

Tom and Gertie Grimes are playing vaude-
ville dates in the Middle West. They will head their
own company next season, in a new musical farce
comedy, entitled “The Whole Damm Family.”

W. G. Rozell, “The Tramp Musician,” is
the vaudeville feature with the American Stock Com-
pany. He bas added several novelties to his act, and
reports that his original invention, the musical electric
fans, is a decided hit.

Pearl Livingston, and little daughter, Lil-
lian Livingston Travers, have gone to Canada for the
Summer. Mrs. Livingston, who will be at the Hippo-
drome, New York, next season, is the wife of James
P. Travers, a non-professional.

Gus Hillannounces that the Eastern Bur-
lesque Managers’ Association and the Columbia Amuse-
ment Company secured the control of three
more theatres, namely: Girard Opera House, in Nash-
ville; Auditorium,in Memphis, and the Greenwall
Theatre, in New Orleans. They are three beautiful
theatres, playing the Eastern attractions.

have

Mlle. Fayette’s Burlesquers are making
good in stock at Sylvan Beach, N. Y. The roster fol-
lows: Mile. Fayette, in radium dances; Richard Wright,
blackface comedian; Maude Joceklyn, soubrette; Edna
May Wright and Jack Russell, acrobatic dancing, with
Mazie Anderson, Holdie Mortimor,
May Seymour, La Bell Rosina, Grace Marvin, Jean
Hammond, Emma Rivers, Russell and Jean-
nette Wright in the chorus.

Gilmore, Grace

Daisy

The Innocent Maids, under the direction
of T. W. Dinkins, will offera novelty in burlesque the
coming season, It will consist of a three act comedy
called ‘A Dangerous Woman,’’ and the principal part
will be assumed Jumes B.

Mr. Mackie will be

by Mackie (Grimsey, Me

Boy). remembered in connection

with Hoyt’s plays. Others who will make the show
entertaining are: Mr. and Mrs. James C. Marcus,
Eugene Jerge, illustrated songs; Deonzo and Elliott,

comedy acrobats and barrel Jumpers; Aleen and Ham-
ilton,

woman

singers and dancers, and Sadie Gill, character
The company will carry five complete sets of
scenery.

Highly Recommended--14 cents in Stamps

irt

—IN MANY CASES THAT

LED

HAVE BECOME KNOWN—

BY CRIMINALS

any Successful Crooks Lead Respectable Lives on
the Side, When Not at Work.

SOME OF THEM MOVE IN GOOD SOCIAL CIRCLES

‘ incinnati Burglar Who Posed as a Retired Merchant, and Who Was Prominent
in Church Work as Well as Charitable.

very crook will tell you,” said a Central Office |
ve sergeant, “that the successful criminal is not
‘haracterized by deeds of daring and audacity, but
e is pretty sure to cover his burglaries, swindles

KID COMMODORE.

A Youngster of Detroit, Mich., who has Plenty |
of Backing at 122-26 pounds against any
Boy in the Country to Meet Him in the Ring.

rlorgeries, 18 the case may be, by living asort of double
le. If possible, he will live in a neighborhood where
ut the only occupation of the policeman is to flirt
th the servant girls. He willeven go to the extent
uttending the neighboring church and win great
pularity among the congregation by his efforts to im-
ve the minds and morals of his fellow creatures.
rake the case of a certain man who lived in New-

a few vears ago and who is now in Trenton prison
rving out @ sentence for a jewel theft. This man
{in fine stylein Neyark for a considerable time
frequently drove his own carriage along Ocean
iue at Long Branch,
Ile

was regarded as a man of considerable means
the news of his arrest for aseries of thefts, which
Judge described as delil erate and cruel, fell like a
erbolt upon his extensive circle of acquaintances,
vas quite a fashionable one.
in the habit of making periodical |
“to New York, when he would engage rooms in a
priced hotel, ransack the bedrooms of the estab-
ent, pawn the stolen articles then return to New-
Vhere he lived a life of high respectability until it
ne necessary to replenish his exchequer again.
\ lew the were
of a man who was regarded as
Of their most worthy citizens on the charge of com-
‘ing a burglary. This number of
“es; Thompson was one he most frequently used. He

eat}

IS man was

yeurs ago people of Cincinnati

inded at the arrest

man had a
efore the public asa retired merchant, and his
But
‘when the people of Cincinnati were asleep that
ine out in his true character.

able work gained for him much popularity.

rsome time he escaped the police, until a clever
e was successful in tracing him as the perpe-

NE BEST BARTENDER’S GUIDE

Is by Charley Mahoney, head bartender of

« Hoffman House, New York.
andtellsit all,
is extra,

He knows it

Price 25 cents; postage 4

trator of numerous burglaries, includinga bank robbery,
by which Thompson netted about $10,000, With part of
the money be thus obtained he actually founded a priv-
ate infirmary, which he superintended personally, and
paid for the maintenance of six old and infirm people.
In addition to this also, he was never known to turn a
deaf ear to the cry of the needy, and was wont to dis-
tribute gifts of money and food with a lavish hand.
“The career of George Dickinson, a notorious burg-
lar who was sentenced three years ago to fifteen years’
imprisonment for burglary and attempted murder,
furnishes another remarkable example of criminal
audacity and daring. Dickinson had previously earned
several terms of imprisonment in diflerent States, and
two years ago settled in Philadelphia, where, keeping

his criminal Career @ Secret, he became a member of a |

prosperous firm of shirt manufacturers,

“During the day be was a respectable merchant, with
a reputation for generosity and goodheartedness, while
at midnight he plied his vocation as a burglar. He al-
ways wore evening dress while engaged in tbis nefari-
ous work, and conducted bis operations in the most
stylish and gentlemanly manner. Dickinson was, in
fact, a veritable Jekyll and Hyde of real life, occupying
fashionable appartments and indulging in all the
pleasures of the modern aristocrat. During a few
months previous to bis arrest more than one hundred
mysterious burglaries occurred in Philadelphia, for
many of which Dickinson was believed to be re-
sponsible.

“Skoog, the skillful counterfeiter, who lived for seyv-
eral years in Brooklyn under an assumed name, was
also a criminal who evidently believed in making
reparation for his wrong doings by giving up part of the
proceeds of bis illegal work tocharity, He was much
respected in the neighborhood in which he resided,
matinly on account of his Sunday school and other re-
ligious work. No one was more enthusiastic in organiz-
ing entertainments and outings for the children—often
at his sole expense—and he was ever ready to con-
tribute liberally toward any deserving cause brought
under his notice. The police, however, at last inter-
fered, and Skoog’s philanthropic and coining works
came to an end,

“The French police were put to @ great deal of trouble

| in consequence of the exploits of Georges Goirand, an

exceptionally clever swindler and robber. Goirand

was a veritable king of rogues, and his adventures |

make extraordinary reading.
to inveigle women, Over whom, in spite of his common-
place and unprepossessing &ppearance he gained a re-
markable influence, and use them for his own ends.

One of his methods was |

A woman confederate who was caught by the police
confessed that she had obtained a situation as a domes- |

tic servant at Goirand’s suggestion, and afterward

rifled the house, handing the whole of the proceeds of |

| her robbery over to Goirand.
“At one time the latter lived in the suburbs of aris,: |

under an assumed name, in a splendid house and
grounds, possessing horses and carriages, as well as
motor cars, all of which were paid for out of the proceeds

of a servant girl’s robberies, which amounted to some |

$75,000 in eighteen months, Goirand made friends
with all the gentry and landowners of the place, in-
viting them during the season to shoot over his pre-
serves, while in the Summer time he went to fashion-
able watering places and associated with persons in
high official position,

“All this time the detectives were looking for him,
but he knew far more about them than they ever
found out about bim, Of course, they never suspected
forone moment that such an apparently wealthy and
respected Man was the Goirand they were looking for.
He had a wonderful stock of properties for disguise,
including even different sets of teeth, which gave his
physiognomy various ex pressions.”

AFRICANDER TO THE STUD.

[WITH PHOTO. ]

The noted 5-year-old bay horse Africander, by imp.
Star Ruby, dam Afric Queen, by imp. Darebin, owned
by James B. Haggin, arrived at Elmendorf (Ky.) Stud
recently, where he will be quartered with the great
Waterboy, whose defeat by Africander resulted in the

latter being purchased by Haggin. During his career

on theturf Africander made 59 starts and of this num- |

ber he was first 19 times, second 15, third 17 and
placed 18 times, and earned $106,500. His most notable
victories were the Suburban Handicap, Saratoga Cup
and the Realization Stakes, which he won as a 3-year-

BROKEN TOOTH LOST FIGHT.

As the result of an accident early in the seventh
round of what was to have been a fifteen-round bout,
before the Rhode Island A. A., at Thornton, R. I., July
13, Peter Sullivan, of Fall
the decision over Frank McCloskey, of Philadelphia.

During the preceding rounds the boys had been fight-

River, Mass., was awarded

ing hard, with honors abouteven. Blink tried to force

| life to givea boy is to con-

| is a

the fighting, but Sullivan landed repeatedly with stiff

jabs in the face and on the “bad eye Farly in the
seventh he caught Blink a hard uppercut with the
right tothe mouth. The blow broke « gold plate on

which were two false teeth and imbedded the plate
firmly in the roof of Blink’s muuth Though suffer
ing intense pain, the lad continued to battle to the end
of the round.

A dentist was called and succeeded in removing the
plate, but Blink’s seconds refused to allow him to go
on again, and the

Under

decision was

the

given to Sullivan

norma! conditions
have gone the limit.

In the preliminaries, Bobby Tickle, of Fall
amiministered a severe drubbing to Kid Connolly, of
Providence, in six rounds, Kid Powell, of Woonsocket,
laid down in the first round of what was to have been
a six-round bout with Billy Broderick.

A MAN CLIMBING A GREASED POLE

bout would probably

River,

double page which will appear in

of the men

Police
tiazette No. 1461, out is a
in the

other pictures, which were especially taken

sailor, as are the rest

for the Gazette. Ask your newsdealer to save

you a copy of this issue, and you will find

it is worth the money.

WHEN SULLIVAN AND
MITCHELL WERE IN JAIL.

My coming battle with Charley Mitchell will be with-
out hard feelings, said John L. Sullivan, the other day,
because we have been pretty good friends since the
time we occupied cells in jail in France, After our hard
and bloody tight at Chantilly, the French cops arrested

|} weight lifter of America, challenges any

us. It was a long way from Boston common, I hadn't |
recovered from the chill I got fighting in the rain and |

mud, and Mitchell was sore inside and out because of
the clouting I bad banded him, I was pretty lonesome

and when I growled at the turnkeys, they pelted me |

with parley voos [ couldn’t understand,

Mitchell could talk a sort of hamstrung French
that the keepers could puzzle out, but he wouldn't say
much to me. _ I tried to get Charley to be nice and talk
to me, but at first he wouldn't say Much that was fit to
print. I felt the chill coming back for another call,
and when Charley found that it was necessary for me
to have some brandy he pigeon-Frenched the news to
the keepers and they like good chaps, produced.
Mitchell took a hooker himself and it eased his wounds
80 that before we got our release we were pretty good
friends. Charley is a good mixer. When we got free
of the dungeons, I invited Charley to have dinner with
me, and he accepted the call, a8 he bad a healthy

| British appetite along.

“There'll be no sparring across the table,’’ was the
condition Mitchell put on the dinner invitation.

“Not any,” sald I, “I won’t even throw a plate at
you,”

That eating contest was to a finish, and those who
saw us put away the food declared it a draw,

My advice to young men who want to get on in the
world is, “Be a good mixer.” In my time I have niet
all kinds of people, from Teddy and the present King
of England down to One-Eyed Connelly, and with all
I’ve been able to shake-a-<day-~iay and break even. All
the men in my business who have stayed long before
the public were fellows who were able to make them-
selves popular when out of -
the ring. Jeffries never had
many strong friends, al-
though winning many ad-
mirers by his work, Fitz has
been popular end is always a@
good card whatever he does.
Jack Dempsey held his thou-
sands of friends till the end.

Iam having bappy days
right along, because I made
friends who stuck. Perhaps
I paid full prices for popu-
larity, but I’m satisfied.
Every town I hit on my
travels there are friends
waiting with the glad hand,
and the icy mitt [I’ve never
felt. Had I been a prig in
the days when the goose was
higher, it would bave been
down and out for yours truly
long ago.

My idea of a good mixer
is the man who is Governor
of my State, little old Mass-
achusetts. He is going to
sidestep politics und I guess
the resson is because he
don’t like to play favorities
even for his own side.
a Democrat who's

Mayor of his town where
there was a majority of
Socialists. His private sec-
retary and right-hand man
Republican. He's a
capitalist who gives labor a
chance for themoney. He’s
achurch member who can
the ward worker on
easy terms. Don’t you think
& man whocan mix this way
is going to do wel?
thing:

He's
been

meet
Sure
The worst start in

vince him that he's too good
to play with boys who may

not have as many grand-
fathers as he has. It is
| because we are a nation of good mixers that

| we beat the world in everything that’s worth while.

LEARN TO MIX DRINKS

With the aid of the Hoffman

tender’s Guide, by Charley Mahoney, of that

cafe: it is illustrated,
cents; postage 4 cents extra,

House Bar

celebrated Price 25

EXPERT

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY 3

THE DOUBLE LIVES

CHALLENGES |

(The challenge editor will be pleased to
publish all legitimate challenges in all sports,

such as boxing, wrestling, skating, bowling,
swimming, bicycling, walking,

jumping, ete., etc.

running,

Newark,

lightweight wrestier in the country

Leo Berlow, of challenges any

Young America
more, Md.

George Danses , of Ualti-

bars no wrestier of bis weiaht

Oscar Otto, of 13 Hamilton avenue, Brook-

lyn, N. Y., issues a challenge to all 160-pound wrestiers

Kid Brown is ready to méetany 138-pound

manand can be found at 2138 Watash avenue, Chi-

| cago, Ill.
will be one of the pictures shown on the —

Augustus Richardson,
street, Pensacola, Fla.,
in the South.

326 Fast

challenges any 1lt-pound boxer

Laurit

Kid Commodore, a youngster, of Detroit,
Mich., has plenty of backing at 122-26 pounds, and he
bars no boy in the country.

Charley Weiss, of Baltimore, Md., manager
of Shad Link, will
weight, Leo Pardello preferred.

match his man with any heavy

Fred Winters, amateur champion heavy
man in the

country to meet him in a contest,

Young Montgomery and Pittsburg Corbett,
two 1065-pound boys, of Pittsburg, Pa., would like to
meet any of the Philadelphia boxers in their class,

John Spatola, of 210 North Eighth street,
Philadelphia, Pa., manager of Hurry Lenny, will

match his man against any lightweight in America.

Fred W. Kalmbach, of Cumberland, Md.,
wants to wrestle Ilarvey Parker's protege, Fred Beel,
if some sport promoter will offer a purse, winner take
all,

Patsy Sweeney, the Irish lightweight, who
was # protege of Spike Sullivan, is now a bartender in
New York, and will shortly enter the roped arena
again. He is open for proposals,

Kid Taylor, of Frederick, Md., is out with
a deti to meet any wrestler from 120 to 128 pounds, He
also bas a youngster weighing but 90 pounds whom he
is sure can defeat any at his weight.

Martin I. Ozarf, of Bérgen Beach, N. Y.,
challenges Billy Wells to a butting match, or he will
compete with him In a contest in which rocks shall be
broken on the head by means of a sledge hammer.

Tommy Daly, a 130-pound boxer of New
York, who has been doing good wor. in the ring lately
is out with a defi to anyone in his class, and will posta
forfeit with the PoLICK GAZETTE to bind a nich.

Harry Decker, the clever little bantam, is
open to meet any bantam in the worl! at 115 pounds
for any number of rounds. Kid Murphy or Joe Wag-
ner, of New York, preferred. He can Le addressed in
care of his manager, John J. Curran, of New Bruns-
wick, N. J.

Bobby Dobbs, the colored boxer, whom
many will remember a# «a bard proposition for any of
the lightweights, has authorized Jack Briggs, the
Brooklyn, N. Y., boxing manager, to arrange a match

INSTRUMENTALISTS.

W. Schorr, L. Schorr and W. Gronweg, known as Schorr’s Band.
They hail from New Orleans, La.. and are a Match for any Trio.

with Joe Gans. Dobbs is now in England,

conducting a boxing school, and will sail at once if the

for him

match is arranged,

Harry Chester,a promising middleweight,

and winner of the amateur middle and light heayvy-

weight championships of the Pacific Coast, last Febru-
ary, has decided to turn professiona’ and come East to

try conclusions with some of the big fellows

CLUB SWINGING by the English and American Champions--A Healthful Exercise--Only Six 2c. Stamps

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

THE MILITARY MAIDS.

A GROUP OF SHAPELY AND ATHLETIC CHORUS GIRLS WHO TAKE AN INTEREST IN THE PHYSICAL
CULTURE END OF THE GAME AND WHO ARE EXPERT FENCERS.

BESSIE McCLEARY.
HAS A DECIDED PENCHANT FOR CHIC
SUMMER BONNETS.

MARJORIE GUARD.

SOJOURNING AT THE SEASHORE
AND IS NOT WORRYING AT ALL.

BESSIE WYNN.

HAS A GREAT VOICE; LAST SEASON
WITH “BABES IN TOYLAND.”

ISABELLA UNDERWOOD. MARIE PETTES. LIBBIE BLONDELL.

GOOD STAGE PRESENCE, AND CRITICS SHE HAS APPEARED IN SOME OF NOW A HEADLINER IN VAUDEVILLE AND
SAY SHE HAS A FINE FIGURE, THE BIG PRODUCTIONS, SHE IS IN GREAT DEMAND.

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

PETER J. M’HALE.

BOXING REFEREE WHO IS POPULAR
IN EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA.

HARRY LENNY. : OSCAR OTTO. OWEN MORAN.
LIGHTWEIGHT BOXER OF PHILADELPHIA {60-POUND WRESTLER OF BROOKLYN BRITISH BOXER WHO HAS GONE HOME AND
WHO IS PREDICTED AS A COMER. WHO ISSUES A CHALLENGE. WILL RETURN HERE IN THE FAIL.

FRED WINTERS. THEY DELIVER THE GOODS.

AMATEUR CHAMPION HEAVYWEIGHT THE CROOKSVILLE (OHIO) GREYS, A PROMISING BASEBALL TEAM “WHICH HAS DONE
LIFTER OF AMERICA. SOME REMARKABLE WORK ON THE DIAMOND THIS SEASON.

6 | THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

A THEATRICAL ANGEL

WITH A SMALL

BUNDLE

WHO HAD GOOD NERVE

The $200 Bank Roll of the Property Man Pulled

the Show Out of a Hole.

HIS HARD EARNED COIN PROVED A MASCOT

A Woman Angel Who Had Pluck to Stick to a Money Loser Until it Brought Her
Back Some of the Money She Sunk in it.

The crowd was talking about theatrical angels—thonse
men who put up for and the man-
ager who knew it all remarked:

“Every time I hear about an angel, I think of Big

money shows,

Jack Cooley. the gamest angel any company ever had,
and he was only a property at that. Any fool
millionaire with money can be an angel and never mind
the loss. It requires no nerve to pay out money when
you bave millions still remaining in the bank. The
real test of an anvel comes when heis risking his last
dollar to keep the show going and is interested in the
venture from other motives than simply liking the
pretty face of a chorus girl.

“EKightor nine years ago Cooley was the property
man of a company I was managing on the Pacific
Coast circuit. We were trying to get tothe rich pick-
ings on the far slope of the Sierra Nevada, but after we
had been out six had reached
Denver we struck a period of bad business,

Than

or seven weeks and

“T was talking long chances on winning with small
backing, tor I only had three or four thousand when T
took the company on tour, and this was nearly ex-
hausted by advances on salaries and railroad fares be-

fore the curtain rose the first night in an Oh town,

We Just managed to pay expenses and a little besides |

until we struck Colorado, and there trouble began

“Salaries figured up about @900 a week and railroud
fares about $250 a week more, notto mention printing
bills. When we begun to play to $75 a night I saw the
end was in sight and the usual two weeks’
notice. Those last two weeks wiped out my bank
balance, and I was ready to pawn my watch for the
price of a ticket to New York when the leading man
made me a proposition.

“*I know you cannot pay our fares back to New
York,’ he said. ‘And even if you could we would all
of us be dead broke and out of work when we got there.
I bave been talking things over with Camille Hilde-
gard, the leading lady, and she is willing to Join me in

posted

this proposition—if you will continue to actas manager |
we will all continue on the commonwealth plan, shar- |

BUFFALO BLL.

The Great Showman, who is now Exhibiting
in Europe with His Famous Wild West,

Taking Pictures with His Rapid-Fire Camera.

ing receipts and expenses, until you are ready to con
tinue on your own account or we are all ready to cry
quits.’

“This commonwealth proposition has saved many
an actor his salary, andit appealed to me just as it did
to the others, for I had no wish to return to New York
and Miss Hildegard, the

ing lady and Montague Rathowen, the leading man,

acknowledge failure.

persuaded the company to go into the profit sharing

avreement, and so we kept going for tive weeks longer.
the

**But business In one-nighters ws si!

rotten. That’s the only wordfor it. Finally in one of
those Western burgs, when we had a $45 house with
which to settle hotel bills, and a payment to the rail-
road of $150 which simply bad to be met before we could
move the next day, I saw the finish had come,

“T called the company together, explained matters,
and said that the end of the rope had been reached
finally. in the general consternation caused by the

‘losed the season, still on the commonwealth plan, we
each of us enjoyed a respectable dividend, not even
forgetting Cooley.

“Cooley is still a property man. and he has never
been an angel forany other company since. He can
always get an engagement from me when |
to spare,

“ T have seen several wealthy show angels in my
time, but none of them equaled Cooley in nerve.
The nearest approach to his nerve was that of a Weat-
ern man—a Californian—who came to New York to
enjoy life, and naturally drifted into theatrical society,
where, as a g00d spender, he was speedily put next to
a new comic opera which couldn't fail, if 1t had saffici-
ent backing to give it a good start.

“This Westerner wasn’t stuck on any girl in the com-
pany, and the manager was merely an acquaintance,
though his standing in the profession was first rate.
This Westerner dropped $40,000 on a musical produc-
tion that failed, without turning a hair, and when it
came to settling accounts, he simply handed the man-
ager @ blank check and told him to fill inthe amount
himself, but to keep the show going three weekg
longer because he had some friends from San Francisco
coming East and he wanted them to see the show, even
if it was a failure,

“Philadelphia may be a slow town, but it has fur-
nished a pretty swift proposition in the way of angels,
No less than five or six big musical productions of the
past six years bave been financed by this Philadelphia
angel, and not one of them has ever made a dollar.

“Still this angel retains his interest in theatricals, and
he will tell you that he expects to get back all his losses
by the next venture. A conservative estimate of the
total losses of this angel in the past six years would
place the sum at approximately $150,000,

“Women once ina while become angels for shows.

have one

| Everyone remembers a musical comedy of a year or

announcement, I didn’t notice old Jack Cooley edging |

toward me nervously.

“Jack bad been an excellent property man for three
seasons in my employ, and he was downright sorry to
see me dead broke. What he did then was the finest
exhibition of nerve I have seen in a long time,

“ ‘Governor,’ he whispered to me, ‘can I speak with
you a moment ?’

“TI thought he was going to give me a bard luck
story and ask for money, but I went with him over to
one side of the stage, leaving the other members of the
company talking over the sad news.

** Well, Jack, we’reall in the same boat and on the
rocks,’ I said, to anticipate a touch.

“But Jack looked serious, and then said:

* *I8 this really the end of the show ?’

**As sure as anything isin the show business,’ I re-
plied. ‘And how we're going to get out of this bloom-
ing town is too great a problem for me, since we only
get 75 per cent. of the $45 there was in the box office
to-night.’

* ‘Well, governor,’ said Cooley, ‘I have saved up a
trifle over $200, and I’ve got it right here in my pocket
now. Do you want it ?'

“T was simply amazed at this offer. Cooley only got
$30 a week, and how he ever saved $200 was a financial
mystery.

“But he dug down in his Jeans and drew forth a roll
of bills that looked more beautiful than a green field
to a famished horse. The green bills were the greenest
lever saw, while the few yeliowbacks among them
looked brighter than pure gold.

**But I bated to take the money.
he had in the world and we were 2,000 miles from
Broadway. I tried to argue with him.

**It would only be adropin the bucket,’ I said, ‘It
isn’tenough to get us back to New York, it wouldn’t
begin to pay salaries, and to-morrow night we would
all be Just as badly off. Better keep it yourself.’

“Rut he was obdurate, and insisted on lending it to
the company, if notto me. Finally 1 made a speech,

‘Ladies and gentlemen,’ I said. ‘Mr. Cooley has

“You ought to have seen the stampede in my direc-
tion, and the loveand reverence with which the former
despised property man was viewed. It was downright
affection those players bestowed upon the man who
had always been called Props.

* ‘Mr. Cooley is willing to lend the company bis $200,’
[ continued, ‘He believes business will pick up and
that we can keep going once we get to the Pacific Coast.
If 1 accept his loan I want it distinctly understood that
this sum, which represents his saving for several years,
must be returned to him the moment business im-
proves. If business does not improve, and the com-
pany hastoend its tour, Mr. Cooley will pocket his
own loss. But I think since he is risking everything
he hus, and we are risking only our services, that if the
company is able, Mr. Cooley should be repaid with

twice what he loans us.’

lead- |

ply plain |

“Say, the hysterical joy of that company was such
that they would have promised Cooley ten times the
amount of his loan, for probably not one of them ever
expected that Cooley would get his money back. They
agreed to my proposition, though Cooley protested that
if he got back the amount of his investment and his
salary he would be satisfied.

“That night was the turning point of our career. It
may sound like a fairy story, but Cooley’s money came
just at the right moment.

“We paid the $150 to the railroad company, re-estab-
lished our credit so that we arranged for several Jumps
on deferred payments, and the next two or three nights
played to houses in the neighborhood of $500 a night.
Once we even touched $700,

‘In two weeks Cooley had his money back, and
there was enough surplus in the treasury to give every
one a full week's salary, something no one bad had for
nearly two months,

“The first thing I did after paying full salaries was
to give Cooley another $200 as his bonus for his loan,
and I did this in spite of protests of several members
of the company, who, actorlike, had forgotten their
promises,

“That show stayed on tour for thirty-nine weeks
after the memorable night that Cooley became angel
for the company, and every actor and actress received
full salary during that period, and when we finally

CHAMPION BARTENDERS

Are represented in Charley Mahoney's new
Bartender’s Guide. He is head man atthe
Hoffman House, New York City. Price
cents; postage 4 cents extra.

I knew it was all |

two ago which was admittedly financed by the woman
whose name appeared as the author of the book.

“Tt was a $25,000 failure, but the lady, undaunted,
turned right around, spent the Summer in construct-
ing a new opera which could utilize the scenery and
costumes of her operatic failure, and boldly put up
money enough to finance the second production. This
time she fared better, for instead of bringing her crude
opera into New York, she sent it on the road, and it
finished the season and is said to have made some-
thing of a profit,though scarcely enough materially
to decrease the total losses on the first opera.

“Rubber shoes supplied the sinews of war for the ad-
vent of a very charming actress, who made her stellar
debut season before last on Broadway. A wealthy
manufacturer of overshoes, having accumulated about
$7,000,000 in bis humane vuccupation, died and left this
tidy little fortane to his wife, sister of the actress.

**Now, the widow loved her sister dearly, and when
the sister expressed a desire to star, the rubber millions
were placed at her disposal. Three plays in all were
produced for this young woman, and the first two
were failures in which approximately $50,000 was lost.

** About $75,000 more was invested ina third produc-
tion, and though the papers praised it, business was so
bad thatthe actress-star had to rent the theatre out-
right in order to continue her engagement. Every
Saturday morning the widow of the rubber magnate
called upon her sister and left a blank check to cover
the umount of the losses on the week. In the six or
seven weeks run the losses amounted to about $10,000,
andI should imagine that the lady’s three starring
ventures consumed about $65,000 of the profits of the
rubber shoe industry.”

JACK TAR ATHLETES

Shown by a double page of great pictures,
will be the leading feature of Police Ga-
publishes the best pictures, of course, and

The best paper

if you order a copy expecting to see some-
thing great you will not be disappointed.

| Sold by all newsdealers in the world,

Our Halftone Photos.

S. A. Berniis the popular owner of the
Barbara Cafe, one of the most attractive resorts im
Minneapolis, Minn.

Jack Lydon was at one time a partner in
the saloon business with Oscar Gardner, the Omaha
Kid, and he is at present his manager.

Peter J. McHale is considered the best
autpority on boxing in Eastern Pennsylvania. He is
the referee of the Twentieth Century Club, of Potts-

| ville, Pa.

The boys of Troop A, Tenth Cavalry, know
how to pluy baseball, and they have a good team. The
players are: Walter L. Sanders, manager; Robert
Bright, c.; Charles Bennett, p.; Ernest Bruce, ss.;
William Hardin, 1b.; Walter Smith, 2b.; William
Queener, 3b.; William Harris, rf.; Daniel Smith, cf.;
William Andrews, If., and James Turner, substitute.

M’PARTLAND WAS EASY.

Recently, Ed De Groote, the French middleweight,
knocked out Jim McPartland,a heavyweight, from
Chattanooga. Tenn., in the fifth round of a scheduled
ten-round fight. The Southerner did all the rushing,
but for the most part his blows did no damage, as De
Groote would continually sidestep them. In point of
science McPartland knew nothing about boxing, and
went out in the fifth round from a left swing to the
jaw. The bout was held at the Hardwicke Opera
House, Dalton, Ga,

PHILA. JACK BESTED SULLIVAN,

Philadelphia Jack O’Brien and Twin Sullivan fought
a twenty-round draw in far-off Dawson City, Yukon,
recently, in the presence of a great crowd.

Sullivan would not go into the ring unless O’Brien
would agree toa draw if both men were on their feet
atthe end of the twenty rounds. O'Brien did not re-
ceive a mark, and his cleverness greatly surprised the
blg crowd of miners present. The men were guaran-
teed a purse of $5,000, with the privilege of percentage.
The gross receipts were about $20,000, and the men
received 36,000 each. The men will probably fight again

at Skaguay, Alaska.

| DOINGS IN FISTIANA.

Gus Ruhlin has started for California and
will finish his training there for his match with Texas

W. W. COE.

Wonderfully Developed All-round Heavyweight
Athlete of Boston, Mass., whose Specialty
is Putting the Shot, Ready to Compete.

Jim McCormick on Aug. 11.
a fight with Marvin Hart.

Jack Clifford knocked out Joe
fifteen rounds at Grass Valley, Cal.

The winner is promised
Angele in

Jimmy Britt has refused to meet Battling
Nelson in a finish battle at Reno, Nev.

Jim Jeffries received a thousand dollars
for refereeing the Root and Hart battle.

Ben Jordan, the English featherweight,

has announced his retirement from the ring.

The Reno A. C, lost money on the Root-
Hart battle, but not enough to break the promoters.

Willie Lewis and Kid Coffey have been
engaged to do a boxing turn atone of the Coney Island,
N. Y., resorts.

Mark Shaughnessy, a pugilistic promoter
of Spokane, has discovered a heavyweight whom he
thinks well of.

Jack McAuliffe, ex-lightweight champion,
is now in England, where he will meet some of the
British boxers.

Joe Tipman, the Baltimore, Md., boxer,
has returned home from
two knockouts,

England where he scored

Dominick McCaffrey, the old-time heavy-
weight pugilist, wno fought John L.
a policeman in Pittsburg, Pa.

Sullivan, is now

Owen

Moran, the English boxer, who
made such a good showing in this country, has sailed

for England and will return in the Fall,

Young Corbett still demands big money

for bis services, and recently refused $1,000 for his

share to meet Kid Goodman in a ten-round bout.

Sammy Kelly, the retired New York ban-
| tam, who has been in Paris, France, tor several years,
states that Frenchmen are now taking an active inter-
est in pugilism.

Young Peter Jackson, the colored Balti-
more middleweight, and Australlan Jimmy
come together for fifteen

{yan may
rounds before the Eureka
of Baltimore.
The proposed match between Abe Attell

| and Young Corbett is off for the present, as the in-

ducements offered by the generous Philadelphia pugil-

istic promoters did not suit the Denverite.

PICTURES OF FAMOUS BARS

Will be found in the Hoffman House Bar-
tender’s Guide, which contains all the latest
recipes with full instructions. Price 25 cents;
postage 4 cents extra.

TOMMY BURNS, The Crack Eastern Jockey, IS NEXT WEEK’S GREAT FREE SUPPLEMENT--GET IT

STARS OF THE BASEBALL FIELD

Leon Ames, the Clever Youngster, Who is on the New

York Nationals

Pitching Staff.

iS UP-CURVE CERTAINLY PROVES A PUZZLER

Bc yan Playing Ball at Warren, 0., Where He was Born, When He was Only 17

Years Old---Discovered

Ames, the crack young pitcher of the New

" National League baseball team, bas speed to burn

ng curves and a fine control. He is still a young

by McGraw at Ilion, N. Y.

It is extremely difficult fora pitcher to master this,
but Ames apparently has done so.
The Ames high is bard to bunt and hard to hit for

long drives because it must be squarely

landed upon with the bat, Ames had the

high throw when he came under the

tutelage of Jack Warner, but he did not
knew the hundred and one little necessaries
that goto make a stellar pitcher.

His speed is better this year than ever
before in his four years of baseball.

He began his public basebull career with
the independent Warren, O., club, in his
native city, in 1900. He wasonly 17 years
old then,

Previously he had played with Youngs-
town, O.,

BR. Y.

and later was signed by Ilion,
There McGraw discovered him,
McGraw, who is the author of the book
on baseball, published by Richard K. Fox,
and which has come to be recognized as
the standard authority on the game wher-
ever it is played, never letg a good man
lle

for the good points of a young player, and

get away from him. bas a keen eye
he has brought many « star from obscurity.
In Ames he is convinced he has a pitcher
who is endowed with all the qualifications
that are necessary to so trying a position.
Although reticent about himself and
his abilities, nevertheless Ames will talk
when he is enthused and so it was when he
told recently of Warner’s training him.

“All throws are alike to me and I like

a!l styles of ball, but I would rather use

LEON AMES.

my curve than anything else,’”’ he said, ‘I

owe all I know about pitching to Jack

Warner, who knows the game as few men
The Clever Young Twirler of the New York mene
, know it to-day.
Club, National League, whose Brilliant Work
* ‘ x . “With a world of patience he took me in
This Season has Placed Him in the Front Rank.

man and is young at the game, but great things are ex-
pected of him,

Ames is the only pitcher in the National League,
thus far, who has ten straight winning games to his
credit this season,

Ina recent interview, he said he owed everything,
even his speed, to the excellent coaching of Jack
Warner, the veteran, who alternated with the mighty

Bowerman behind the bat for the Giants last season.

\mes’ stellar ability as a pitcher, while including all- |

around good work, Is conceded to be his hich ball (not
of Scotch variety), which, with fine control, he can
send across the plate just a shade below the batter’s
shoulders,

It was this ball, served in curves and straight throws

th puzzling success, which won Ames bis two games

r the Giants at the close of last season against Pitts-

rg and Boston.

It was for this high ball that Manager McGraw

ed him,
(he throw is overhand and exactly opposite to the
cessful underhand rise bail, McGinnity’s favorite.
\mes takes a turn or two with both arms, throws
k his body and brings his pitching arm and left arm
vard at the same time.

is gives the impression to some that he throws

both hands,

e ball leaves the pitcher’s hand high and describes
arp, swift drop to the level, Just below the batter's
ilders,
lrequently Red swings only one hand on the for-
| step.
* body at the point of delivery is spread out, arms

egs extended in spreadeagle fashion. This is the

s high, as it has come.to be known, and is appar- |

as effective as the rise ball.

dern pitching experts have developed what is

1a uniform delivery, which means that the slow

last balls are delivered with precisely the same
ments and exertion.

e speed up to the point of delivery is exactly the

and makes it impossible for the batter to be upon
rd or to prepere for any of be

particular sort ill,

\. OHASHI’S Great Book on JIU-JITSU Mailed on Receipt of 12 Cents

In the curve the same moves are made, |

hand and showed me things,
“Tt would be a hard matter to tell how I throw my
high one.

for yourself.”’

Another story about baseball stars next
week. Don’t miss this series.

YOUNG ERNE THE GOODS.

Kid Goodman, of Boston, made his first appearance
in Philudelphia, at the National A. C,,on July 10, when
ne faced Young Erne, and his performance did not
altogether justify his reputation. .

In the first two rounds he had the better of the ex-
changing, Erne being apparently afraid to go in and
mix it with his more stalwart Opponent. But after
feeling Goodman out and discovering that the latter’s
punches were not altogether pile drivers, Erne started
in, and at boxing or fighting be more than held his
own with the Bostonian. There was more steam be-
hind the punches that Goodman sent out, but very few
of them landed, and none of them near the danger
spot. Erne kept boring in, and his short-arm punches
invariably landed with telling effect.

In the fourth round
and Erne met him.

Goodman tried to force matters
The result was a great mix, at the
conclusion of which Goodman was compelled to break
ground. Inthe fifth round Erne fought the Bostonian
to a standstill, and when they came up for the sixth
round both showed the effects of their work in the pre-
ceding round, They mixed it up willingly enough, but
neither had the requisite steam behind his punches to
inflict any material damage,

Unk
Reading, was a

The semi-windup between
| Cardiff, the latter of
way.

Russell Jack
hummer all the
Russell stopped Cardiff about a month ago, but

| Cardiff was therein great shape,and although he ran

and

| second to his younger opponent, he put up a bout well
worth witnessing.

A HOT GO IN PRIVATE.

Joe Quigley knocked out Tommy Mullins, of Brook-
lyn, in the nineteenth round with a right to the jaw in
a fight that was scheduled to go wo a finish on July 8.
The knockout as Mullins had a
shade the better of the fight for the last ten rounds
had Quigley cut

came aS & surprise

, and

about the face and head, and one of

CHARLEY MAHONEY,

Head bartender of the Hoffman House, has
written a Bartender’s Guide. It is the most
complete ever published. Illustrated.

| 25 cents; postage 4 cents extra.

Price

y re is tc c e ne
All you have to do is to watch me and see | 4), ring.

to begin your subscription with. In any
event get a copy of that issue and look |
it over. ‘ ;
CORBETT’S OPINION OF FIGHTERS.

his eyes in mourning. It rattling good fight
The mill was pulled off on the Jersey shore,
New York City

Fleach to see

was A
near

before a hundred
the

Sports, who gave up
fun. The boys fought at 126 pounds,

for a side bet of 8100 and 7

the

per cent of the gate to eo to

winner and 2 per cent to the loser

From the sound of time in the first round until the
like bulls,
the
of the
seemed to have the wallop that hurt

tover

tenth round both
then Mullins}

bove tought first Quigley

aving the better of going. Mullins

was the faster and cleverer two, but Quigley
every time he got
In the tenth round Mullins jJabbed Quigley
three times to the left eve and ¢ oned it Quigley tore
off many hard wallops to Mullins’ stomach and ribs
that made the Brooklyn boy double up.

It was a of and take until the eighteen
round, when Mullins sent his to the floor twice
with lefts and rights to the bead. and Quigley looked as
if he would in. But he came back each
willing to take what Mullins had in store, and

out a few on bis own hook.

cuse xive

man
cash time,
hand
As both boys went to their
corners at the close of the round neither looked as if
he would be able to respond to the call of time,
Quigley, in the nineteenth, rushed man to the
side of the ring and tore off two right jolts to Mullins’
body and then crossed his left to the Jaw. Mullins went
down for the count, but as he reguined his pins Quigley
stepped in close and pushed a beauty to his stomach
and crossed his right to the jaw, and the Brooklyn boy
felltothe floor in a heap.
winner, but it took

his

Quigley was declared the
his seconds fully an hour working
over him before he could get his clothes on again.

DOUBLE PAGE OF SAILORS

The mén of Uncle Sam's Navy are bound to |

be of interest, under all circumstances, and
the results of Police Gazette photographer's
camera will be shown ina great double page
in No. 1461, out Aug. 10. If you are not
already a subscriber, that is a good number

According to James J, Corbett, the aathor of ‘‘Scien-
tific Boxing,’ which is No. 9 of Fox’s Athletic Library,
George Dixon and Champion Jeffries were the two
coolest fighters that ever stepped into a ring.

The former would sit in his dressing room, read the |

papers and discuss fighters of promise before a battle.

The famous ex-cham pion further says:

I remember on one occasion the little negro asked
for pen and ink. He quietly wrote a letter to a friend
in the Middle West. Notthe least bit of nervousness
was displayed and the letter is to-day preserved by
Dixon’s friend as a souvenir of the great little man’s
nerve,

On another occasion Dixon sent for a bootblack to
come and shine a pair of shoes, as he wanted them
after the fight to wear to a dinner to be given in his
honor by some friends, if he won.

Jeffries’ actions are somewhat different, but display
even greater coolness than those of Dixon.

When a match is made, Jeff shows great interest
and talks to his friends almost continually of the
coming struggle. Asthe date of the battle ap-
proaches, Jeff grows indiflerent. This is due
chiefly to the fact that he realizes his condition
is gradually nearing perfection and that he will
be capable of doing his best when he steps into

Peter Jackson and myself were probably the
most nervous of all the big fighters. Jackson,
at Jeast an hour before a fight, would begin drink-
ing brandy in small bits.

At the bell Jackson would be keyed to a high
pitch and his nervousness would be plain to
every spectator for at least two rounds, when he
would settle down and work like a whirlwind,

Before I won the title I never appeared on the
stage. I was at home in the ring, as much 80 as
at the dinner table. But when I made my first
trip around the country as an actor, I lost a lot
of coolness. The long strain I was under éach
told me, Consequently, when I met
Fitzsim mons I was a diflerent man than when I[
faced Sullivan; I was extremely nervous,

Bob Fitzsimmons, by the way, always lets
some one else do the worrying. His wife, he
claims, used up enough nervous energy for both,
He always held that many a good fighter dropped
a battle becuuse he did too much thinking.

One of the great troubles with

day on

young fighters
nowadays is that they enter the ring too young.

I mean that they tackle big gume too soon
after they have had success among the small fry.
Iiad the
’Frisco boy gone slower lhe would to-day be in
the same position, if not higher, than Jimmy
Britt. Eddie was anxious to reach the top and
outran himself before he landed.

Take Eddie Hanlon as an example.

Look at several others. Terry McGovern was
champion at 20 and a back number at 22. Young
Corbett won the title at 21 and should now be at
his best. He has gone back so far tat he will
never recover the lost ground. Battling Nelson
took a longer time to rise, but overdid things at
the top.

With heavyweights it generally takes longer
to come; Lut the stay is usually of greater length.

There 18 one place in the world where fighting
is flourishing at the present time and little is
heard of the battles. Tn faroff Alaska the knight
of the padded mitt is enjoving prosperity.

I received a letter from a friend the other day mak-
ing me an offer to come to the region of ice and snow
to meet 4 local inan on Dominion day. I sent word to
him that I was no longer in the ring and informed him
of two or three others who would fill the bill,

My friend informs me that he cleaned up nearly $20,-

000 In the past three years at the fighting game. This

would be # good place to pull off the Mitchell-Sullivan | posted on up to-date drinks,

fight.

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW. YORK CITY

AROUND THE BASES.

It is rumored that Dick Padden
for the mManagership of the Colonel«

is slated

Catcher Jack Slattery, who has been play-
ing with Coatesville, bas Joined Griffith's Highlanders

Griffith and his sturdy bunch are hustling
hard to get into the first column. When they do watch

them climb,

Josh Clarke, the Cardinal right flelder, was

recently released to J. Ea Girillo’s Toledo Club in

the
American Association

It has gone quite hard with the Clevelands
for Lajole to be out of the game
whata mighty man he is

it proves conclusively

Joe Kelley says that he has pitchers enough
and will not sign Charley
released by the Cardinals

Nichols, who was recently

Hugh Duffy has about given up hopes
landing the two Dartmouth college
and Glaze, for his outtit this vear.

pitchers, Skillen

The Phillies have made an offer to
Charles Nichols, recently

Pitcher
lie

released by St. Louls

has been pitching for over 18 yeurs.

Jack Doyle joined the New York Amerl-
cans in Detroit. He will be used behind the bat until
Juck Kleinow gets back in the game.

Jersey City will be ina bad way for pitch-
ers if Griffith should recall Clarkson as peremptory as
Pres Taylor did Olmstead to Join the champions,

As between the Chicagos and Clevelands
for the pennant, Connie Mack thinks the Chicagos are
the more likely, to say nothing of his own team.

Rain has frequently interfered with the
Boston-Chicago schedule. The
played four games this season.

teams have only

Chicago wir ning three,

Collins, of Boston, has decided to recall
Pitcher Olmstead from the Jersey City Club, as the
| team is short on pitchers, with Gibson showing no dis
position to get to work.

Ata recent game at the Polo Grounds, New
York, the crack pitcher, Brown, of the Chicagos, only
allowed the champions two hits (Mertes and Bresna-
han taking one each); this was a feat.

A Western syndicate recently ordered a
story from Boston on “The decline of Cy Young as a
pitcher.”’ They were notified that if they would wait
about five years the order might be filled.

Umpire Klem is the most active man on
Pulliam’s staff. Before the season opened he went
| through a regular training in the South with the New
| Jersey Independents, the same as a ball player.

The Brooklyn Nationals, when they do play
winning ball, most certainly put up the sensational
kind, On July 12, they defeated the Pittsburgs 8 to 6,
the Pirates using three pitchers—Leever, Flaherty and
| Lynch, Ob!!!
| Some queer things happen in baseball at
| times. Ina game recently Cincinnati made fifteen hits
| and scored fifteen runs, and Boston bad thirteen hits
| and only made three ruus. In the same game the
| great Tenney made four errors.

Dad Clarke, a star pitcher inthe National

League several years ago, when he was with New York

KID

MARTORINA.

A New Yorker who Challenges any Boy in the
Country to Meet Him in the Ring at 115 pounds.

and Chicago, and who later pitched for Minneapolis,
has signed with the Calumet Club of the Copper Coun-
try-Soo league.

A GOOD BARTENDER
Ought to have the Hoffman House Bar
tender’s Guide, because it will keep him

Price 25 cents;

postage 4 cents extra.

n Stamps--33 ILLUSTRATIONS

LOOK AT THIS AND KEEP COOL.

JACK (TWIN) SULLIVAN AS HE LOOKED WHEN HE WAS IN THE FRIGID REGIONS OF THE KLONDYKE—HE
FOUGHT A FEW HARD BATTLES AND SPORTED A DOG TEAM.

Photo by Spooner: New York. | THIS IS GOING SOME.

WEBB JAY, OF CHICAGO, ILL. IN HIS STEAM AUTOMOBILE MAKING A NEW WORLD’S RECORD AT
MORRIS PARK FOR THE MILE BY GOING THE DISTANCE IN 48 4.5 SECONDS.

TORPEDO.
THE DARING AERIALIST, IN FLIGHT THROUGH THE AIR FROM HIS AUTO TO THE

THE HUMAN

: Newark

FLYING TRAPEZE---THIS PHOTOGRAPH WON A $i00 PRIZE IN A RECENT COMPETITION.

¢ photo by Matt Stratton
MONBAR,

Pri

FOE Oe) ETRE BOOTED SE CRO TE RRL m Serr RS

JEFFRIES AS A REFEREE

—SLUGGING THE OFFICIAL HAD BECOME A POPULAR PASTIME—

FILLS A LONG FELT WANT

Marvin Hart May be a Champion but He is the Poorest
Representative the Title Ever Had.

THE RUSSIAN LION’S PECULIAR METHOD OF TRAINING |

Corbett Retires from the Controversy with Fitzsimmons---Ruhlin will again
Demonstrate His Ability to Fight---Small Talk.

Jim Jeffries has demonstrated his ability
to fill a long felt want with glittering success, and as a |
referee he can go along making money, and easy
money at that, After the Hart-Root fight at Reno
there was no kicking, no cussing the referee, and if the
loser attempted to take it out of the man who gave
the fight to the other fellow no mention of the fact
was made inthe dispatches from the ringside. It is
not recorded either that there was any questioning of
the orders or decisions of the referee.

Referee Jeffries is barred from the fighting game
proper because nobody will fight him. By officiating
at figits between aspirants for the honor he has been
compelled to pass up he will be doing the public a favor,
especially if he sticks to the platform laid down of lick-
ing the man who fakes a fight over which he presides,

At $1,000 per fight, the figure he received forthe Reno
affair, it ought to be worth the big fellow’s while.

Although he does so reluctantly, George
Siler, the distinguished expert on fistic matters, is in-
clined to sidestep Bob Fitzsimmons and recognize
Marvin Hartas the present champion of the world.
In doing #0, however, he lays no bouquets at the feet
of the indomitable Marvin, for he says: “He is the
poo:*st champion since the days of John L, Sullivan.
I do not wish to insinuate,’’ he continues,” that Hart is
not « good man, but his climb to the top rung of the
pugilistic ladder came at a time when the man who
occupied that position for six years concluded to step
down and out for lack of worthy opponents, and at a
time when no really good men, such as Fitzsimmons
and Corbett, were around to block his way.

“In looking the heavyweight puzgilistic fleld over I
can see no white man capable of trouncing Hart, so be
is indeed fortunate that the crop of good, big fighters is
scarce. Undoubtedly the best big man in the business
at present is Jack Johnson, the colored heavyweight
champion, and Hart shows excellent Judgment in
drawing the color line. It is the opinion of all fair-
minded witnesses thot Johnson beat Hart in their re-
cent fight at San Francisco, and undoubtedly can re-
peat the trick, so it probably is better for the game that
Hart drew the color line.”

I am more skeptical about Hart’s ability than Siler
is, and base much of my opinion that he is not of
cham ptonship calibre upon the alleged fake fight with
Black Johnson, to which Siler refers; if Hart could not
lick Johnson “on the level’”’ and draws the color line
to evade another meeting, I think his championship
claims have no virtue in fact, and that his chances will
be a poor betting proposition if it ever comes to a hook
up with Fitz, I’m willing to be convinced that Hart Is
a champion, but “I’m from Missouri.”

Speaking about Marvin Hart, Frank Gotch,
the wrestler, is quoted as saying:

“T have seen Marvin in action and am forced to ad-
mit I was not seriously impressed*with his work. He
is big and husky enough for a champion and I pre-
sume capable of taking considerable punishment, but
do not believe be has anything on me outside of science
and experience.”’

That's usually enough to get the money ! }

George Hackenschmidt, the Russian Lion,
has demonstrated tne fact that contrary to general
opinion, the same training regime which puts fighters
into condition should be followed by wrestlers. In
pursuing this course himself, the great wrestler revo-
lutionized the training methods of wrestlers while he
was in this country. His ideas of getting into condi-
tion were so unique that the majority of grapplers have
imitated him, with the result that the majority of the
knights of the mat have been considerably benefited
in the way of condition. Inthe past, wrestlers used to
get into shape by merely working exclusively on the
mat, They never thought of giving any attention to
road work, or boxing or fencing or any other exercise
that would aid them in making their muscles supple.
The result was that while they were on the floor, either
acting as the aggressor or on the defensive, they were
allright. But as soon as they were in a standing posi-
tion their legs begun to tire and they were compelled
to get down on all fours once more or suffer a chance
of being thrown.

Hacxenschmidt surprised alot of wrestlers who were
anxious to lend their services in his training camp
wlen the Russian suggested a spin on the road. He
was told that the custom was an uncommon one in
this country, and that if he indulged in too much of
this kind of exercise he would certainly feel the effects
of it. The Russian simply smiled and went ahead
with the methods that had aided him so much in the
past. He ran five miles every day, boxed, fenced, and
only gave abouta half hour to wrestling.
quence, when he faced Jenkins at
Garden he was in the best of

AS a conse-
Madison Square
trim. His wind was per-
fect and his legs never gave him any trouble,

Jenkins’ methods of training are similar to those of
the foreigner, except that Tom does not believe in tou
much road exercise. He boxes and does a number of
flipflaps in the gym and develops his wind by a num-

ber of stunts. Most of his labor, however, is contined
to wrestling. He says thet a wrestler should do a lot of
this exercise, because in this way he trains the musvles
that he uses on the matinan important bout. Frank

Gotch trains a good deal itke the boxers. There is noth-
ing that he likes better than road work, Speaking
about his methods, Gotch recently said: ‘A number of
wrestlers put in their time working on the mat, but I
find that I am always in better shape and that I can
last longer when I train on the road. I also do con-
siderable boxing.”

Jim Corbett retires from the controversy
with Bob Fitzsimmons in « manner which leaves no
room for doubt that he will ever re-enter the ring in
the capacity of a fighter. During a conversation
the other day, he gave this reason for not fighting again

Big Jim McCormick for a twenty-five-round go at
Colma, Cal..on Ang. 11. McCormick is the fellow
who was recently knocked out by Jobn L. Sullivan in
a friendly bout and is now with the big fellow in the
capacity of sparring partner. liow much of a real
fighter he is, though, will haveto be shown. Heand
his people, however, havesproved their gameness and
contidence of winning by insisting that the winner’s
share of the purse be at least 75 cent. and in fact they
have declared that a split of 90 and 10 would be even
more agreeable to them.

McCormick has been training with Sullivan for the
past three months and isin good shape. He will be
directed by the mighty John L. in all of bis work.

The California sports who have been hankering to see
the heavyweights in the ring will now have plenty of
opportunity, as, after the McCormick-Rublin match,
Marvin Hart will meet the winner, according to a
statement made at Reno after Hart had won from
Roor.

McCormick is said to look like a fair specimen of
heavyweight timber. He is 6 feet 1 inch in height,
with a tremendous reach, but is not as heavy as
Ruhlin by something like fifteen or twenty pounds.
He expects to fight at about 190 pounds, while Rublin
will probably tip the scales at 210 or over.

You will be interested in the Athletic

Double Page in Police Gazette No, 1461, out

Aug. 10, showing the Sailors of the North
Atlantic Squadron during their recent
athletic meet at Provincetown, Mass. Order

from your newsdealer.

Buddy Ryan is adding to his reputation
in such a way that it seems idle to dispute his claim to
the welterweight championship title. He 1s almost in-
vincible among the men who oppose him in the
division where he belongs, and only weight seems to
stop him in piling up victories. His latest victim was
George Herberts, a new California fighter, with tituler
aspirations, whom he knocked out in eleven rounds
after a gruelling battle. Herberts had the better of the
bout up to the eighth round, baving Ryan groggy sev-
eral times. Ryan knocked Herberts down twice in the

FRED BARTH.

He hails from Kittanning, Pa., and

for the world’s championship. Corbett relates as fol-
lows: “IT do not want to have it thought that I am sore
or that the mutter troubles me, but the thing might as
well be understood. You remember my fight with Bob
Fitzsimmons in Carson City, ia which 1 was beaten,
and lost the championship of the world. Helandeda
punch that knocked the wind out of me. That won
him the championship. Ido not s&y this to be egotis-
tical, but facts are facts, and the newspapers said at the
time that Fitz was beaten in reality. but landed a lucky
punch, I was on my knee for ten or eleven seconds,
and when the decision was given Fitz was out of the
ring. I went to him, and wanted him to come back in
the ring and finish it out, but as the decision had been
given to him he wouldn’t. Then TI challenged him to
a fight and he declared he would never fight again.
‘Jim,’ he said, ‘you've given me the worst licking I
ever had, and I’)l never ight again.’ I do not mean to
say that the fight was won unfairly. On the contrary,
it was fair and square, but Fitz was lucky.

“Itis nine years ago since 1 fought Fitzsimmons,
and now when he isan old man, and my last thought
is fighting, he wants me to go into the ring with him.

“T consider it a disregard for my intelligence for him
to ask me to go into the ring and fight for the cham-
pionship of the world, when neither of us has any
claim on the title. Then again there is no money in
the fighting game. [I’m making plenty now and don’t
want to fight.”’

Gus Ruhlin has listened patiently to all
the stories about his being beyond the pale of useful-
ness as a factor in championship affairs, but has at
last taken the proper steps to refute them by taking on

THE MAN BEHIND THE BAR

Will be able to mix all drinks if he has the

Hoffman House Bartender’s Guide, the best

of its kind. Price 25 cts.: postage 4 cts. extra. |

issues a Defi
the World to Meet Him for the

to any Middleweight Wrestler in
Title and Substantial Stakes.

first round. Fora fighter of his experienve Herberts
made a most gratifying showing, and he lost no ad-
mirers by his defeat. He gave Ryan a good drubbing,
but could not put him away.
stretch-running proclivities began to tell, and he went
after his man like a true fighter. The tables were
quickly turned and the veteran’s ability told against
thetyro. The finish was decisive, and demonstrated
beyond all question Ryan’s worth as a speedy fighter.

Patrons of Harry Hill’s will recall Jerry
Murpby, the lightweight, who used to do a whirlwind
turn with Jammy Kelly, in the old days when Gus
Hill, Steve Taylor, Daisy Daly, George Rooke and even
John L, SullfVan, were regular features of the famous
Houston street resort. Murphy, who was atypical
fighter of his time, once fought Jack McAuliffe a draw,
and aftera successful ring career went on the stage, The
team of Kelly and Murphy made a hit in a comedy
sparring sketch, and Murphy made money, but lost it
all later. Several weeks ago he went to the Metro-
politan Hospital, where he began to show signs of
mental decay. He was sent to Bellevue for observation,
and transferred to Ward’s Island whe-e he is confined
as a hopeless paretic. He is about 40 years old.

After a night up-town with the boys, Owen
Moran, the clever little English bantam, who came to
this country last Spring and who made good over here,
so to speak, the other day ‘“*hiked’”’ himself back to his
home in Birmingham, England. Moran is going to
return next Fall, because, as he says, he likes America

and its people. Moran had two fights while here. The
firstone with Danny Dougherty at Philadelphia and
the other with Monte Attell in private. Moran was |

victorious in both mills,

onstrated that heis a pugilist of the first class who

looks as if hecould easily hold his own in any company.
SAM C. AUSTIN.

‘Some Famous

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

FISTIC REVERSE
IS DISASTROUS

Pugilists to Whom
Defeat Meant Oblivion.

Prize fighters as a rule are thick-headed and un-
demonstrative, and require more Mentality than the

| average member of the fraternity possesses, to stand
|} a succession of reverses without going to the wal!

| sufficient courage to appear in public again.

| and speed were gone,

completely. For instance there is nothing that wil)
take the heart out of a fighter who bas long enjoyed a
vogue as champion more than a defeat. It causes him
to worry and fret until his nerves and health begin to
suffer,and in the he will become a wreck and
sometimes die. But for being whipped by Bob Fitz-
simmons Jack Dempsey might bave heen alive to-day,
Dempsey never forgot his defeat at the hands of the
Cornishman, and the late Nonpareil’s friends have
never forgiven him for causing it. After Dempsey
lost to Fitz he began to show signs of failing health.
lie wus depressed in spirits and seemed to be brooding
over something, and it was apparent to all his friends
that there was something amiss with him.

It was several years after that fight that Dempsey’s
admirers learned that the once invincible pugilist was
dying of a broken heart. Jack conveyed this impres-
sion in every word aud gesture. In order to forget the
reverse, Dempsey began to drink, and his health began
to sufler. Every possible thing was done to cheer
Dempsey up, but to no purpose.

“Don’t let that beating by Fitz bother you, Jack,”
Dem psey’sfriends said to him. ‘He isa bigger man
than you are and you were not disgraced. The public
will never forget you, and you are just as popular as
ever.”’

“That’s all right,’”’’” Dempsey would say, ‘but I’ve
been licked and the championship of America is gone.
I would not mind it, but a bloody Englishman took it
from me and that hurts me the worst.”

All the same Dempsevw’s cronies succeeded in ca-
joling him into the belief that he still could fight. They
induced him to come North and got him a match with
Tommy Ryan, at Coney Island. Poor Dempsey was
but a shadow of his former self and Ryan madea
punching bagof him. The mill was stopped before
Dempsey could suffer the humiliation of another
knockout. Dempsey never recovered after that. He
became very ill and died in the West from consump-
tion.

Jobnny Griffin, the Braintree Lad, felt bis defeat by
Solly Smith, at Roby, Ind., very keenly, and from
that time on his decline set in. Before Smith took bis
measure, Griffin never knew the taste of liquor. He
was a model young man for a pugilist, admired and
popular, Smith’s victory stung Griffin to the quick.
He lost all pride in his ambition, began to dissipate,
and what might have been a laudable career came to
an untimely end.

Jim Hall, the once noted Australian middleweight,
was never himself again after Bob Fitzsimmons laid
him low at New Orleans more than ten yearsago, It
was reported many times that Hall was dying of an
incurable malady, but he managed to regain bis health.
He still speaks of the defeat, but is more or less recon-
ciled to it. Kid Lavigne went down hill at a rapid
gait after Frank Erne wrested the championship from
him, Lavigne tried several times to show that he still
possessed the qualities of an excellent fighter, but it
was no use. The defeat rankled in his breast and he
never was himself again.

Billy Plimmer was rarely heard of after Pedlar
Palmer dropped him for the count for the second time.
For two years afterward Plimmer was ill and it was
oiten reported that his mind was affected. Plimmer
brooded a good deal over his lost laurels. He kept
aloof from his friends and went into a sort of
retirement.

It was only after Palmer was beaten by Terry Mc-
Govern at Tuckahoe, N. Y., that Plimmer mustered
He tried
his hands in a couple of bouts, but bis old-time skill
To-day Plimmer is said to be in
South Africa. His friends say that he has recovered
his health, but that hestill talks about the honors that
once were his,

John L. Sullivan never forgave Jim Corbett for the
latter’s victory over him, and to this day Sullivan re-
gards Corbett asanenemy. It was many years before
Sullivan was able to forget the defeat. Perhaps he

end

| might have worried himself into ill health had he not

It was then that Ryan’s |

been convinced that his popularity had not waned.
Bob Fitzsimmons often said that Were it not for the
fact that Jeffries is a bigger man than himself and that

he went out of his class to meet him he might have

taken his defeat to heart. George Dixon feels the loss
of his title very keenly to this day. He went to Eng-
land shortly after McGovern whipped him and has
been there since. Hesaysthat be will never return
unless he is assured that his defeat is forgotten.

McGovern has not been himself since Young Corbett
knocked him out the lasttime. Terry had hoped that
he woul: be able to turn the tables on Corbett some day,
and in their final essay was confident .hat he would re-
trieve himself. McGovern never dissipated to any ex-
tent, but of late bis friends declare that he bas been
imbibing freely. They predicted some time ago that
he would break down. McGovern is highly strung,
and constant training in the past bas left his once
rugged constitution in a weak state. Heis still very
popular, and is only 25 years old.

CHAMPION PEDESTRIAN’ DEAD.

In the Attell contest he dem-

The Standard Authority on All Card Games and Dice--HOYLE’S GAMES--Sent for 15 Two-cent Stamps

James Smith, world’s champion walker and famous
boxing trainer, died at Shenandoah, Pa..on July 13,
aged sixty-seven. He was born in London, England,
and came to America in 1868 with George Topley
champion walker of England, and defeated bim the
same year. Healso defeated Daniel O’ Leary, besides
dozens of others. Hetrained James Mace, champion
heavyweight boxer of the world, and other prominent
pugilists,

YOU CAN MIX DRINKS
If you know how.
have a copy

You can learn if you
of Charley Mahoney’s Hoffman
House Guide. Price 25c.; postage 4c. extra

Yachting,

30; that he can’t count the king and queen of diamonds
as 4) more in trumps after announcing them as 150?

30 is richt. Would bave to hold both queens and

kings of trumps to count 390.

S. M., Los Angeles, Cal.—In « game of hearts; 4
handed; one pluyer, out of luck and getting bie hearts
in bis hand right along and sore, makes a remark toa
fellow watching the game before picking up another
hand dealt, and said he bets that he will hotd 2 bearts

WILLIE MACK.

A Jersey City Boxer who has a promising future
and is open to meet any boy in his class.

as good as the ten or jack; the bet was made and the
player picked up his hand and found the 9 and king?
If the bet was made and accepted the non-player

Reader, Bristol, Pa.—Draw poker; A opens pot on
stays on jacks
up; A draws two cards and in mistake throws away
one of the eights; does B win with three sixes, or does
..B wins,

C. A. S., Pocatello, Idaho.—Ina game of pitch B
B bids three and plays the
queen of clubs and holds the ten, jack and deuce, and
the ten and five of spades; A takes the queen of clubs
with the ace of clubs, and leads back the seven of

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

UR INQUIRY DEPARTMENT

IN WHICH ARE ANSWERED

MANY INTRICATE QUESTIONS

F\erything Appertaining to Pugilism, Athletics,
: Racing, Trotting, Baseball and Cards.

Y DIAMOND

ple in the United

Btates.

Every one of them wants a Diamond. Diamonds
win Hearts. A Diamond isa shrewd investment. Dia-
monds increase in value twenty per cent per year. Bet-

ter than savings banks. Write today for our Catalog—
1000 illustrations. Sclect the Diamond which is your
special fancy. We will send it for your examination.
Our credit terms: One-fifth the price to be paid when you
receive the articie, the baiance in eight equal monthly
payments. We pay a:l express charges. . Write To-day!

Diamond Cutters
Manufacturing Jewelers
BROS &CO. 58 $2 to98 State St. Chicago
OR SALE tattooing machines, different colors, de-

signs. stenci!s, needles, etc.. best and lowest priv es,
Prof. Wagner, 223), Bowery, New York.

THE BEST DOUBLE PAGE

Police Gazette will

Ever published in the
be in No. 1461, out Aug. 10. It shows the
Sallor Athletes of the North Atlantic
Squadron doing theirstunts, Your especial
attention is called to the man who is trying
to «limb the greased pole.

five of spades and gets in return an off suit; he then
leads his clube and finds no more trumps and makes
low, jack and the game; A is ten in the game; B is
eight; who wins the game; bidder or points?
Points. A wins.

R. tt., Kendall, Mont.—A, B and C engage in a
game of stud poker; A has two eightsin sight; B has
two aces in sight; C hastwo kings; C has less money
than the other two or is tapped; A makes B lay down
the two aces with the weaker hand; who wins the pot?

..If there is no side pot, B wins the main pot witb
the aces,

J.P. S., Milwaukee.—Who do you consider the
best heavyweight of the three, Corbett, Fitzsimmons or
Marvin Hart? Who is the best lightweight fighter of
the world at the weight limit? What Lecame of
Hi. J. J. Placke, the heavyweight of Germany ?.

1. Fitzin our opinion. 2 Joe Gans, 3. Sought and
found oblivion.

A. H., Cincinnati, O.—A, Band C are playing stud
poker; B bets and A raises him; B re-raises and A calls
his raise: one more card to come; the last card makes
A two fives in sight; A bets B $28.50; B studies his hand
and says, “two fives beats me;” thereupon A turns
over his down card to show B timt he has bluffed him,
and commences to pull in the pot; when B sees that A
has only one pair and be himself has a pair of aces,
wants to contend, and call A's bet; A claims that when
B said “two fives beats me” and did not call A’s bet, he
then acted on his band and has no right totry and
play his band any further after A turned his card over?

.... A wins the pot, as B’s remark is equivalent to pass-
ing.

Gi. A. D., Cleveland, O.—A and Bare playing crib-
bage and have discarded and the trump is turned; A
holds the queen, Jack, deuce and seven of spades; B
holds two eight spots, one seven and one six; the trump
turned has no place in the argument, A plays the
queen, 10; B plays the eight, 18; A then plays the jack,
28; B says it is a go, then A plays his deuce, making a
count of 30 and pegs one; B plays the six, 6; A plays
the seven, 13; B plays the eight, 21, and counts a run of
three and pegs three holes; then B plays his remaining
card, the seven spot, and demands three holes for a
pair of sevens and the last card; A says B cannot use
his seven as @ run and then again asa pair; the seven
spot being his last card, it is not covered ?...... A is right;

spades and B saves his ten of spades; B then leads his

BUY

d eo

. DNT HESITATE TO ASK US ABOUT ANYTHING

, Qur Sources of Information Are Accurate and Our Decisions Settle
; Many Wagers for Our Readers.

: + ¢., Detroit, Mich.—Low wins. G. S., Constantine, Mich.—What is the fastest
8 and U., Newcastie, Cal.—She was not. time on record of an automobile for one mile ? One
t. Jones, San Francisco, Cal.—We pay postage. mile in 48 4-5 seconds, by Webb Jay, July 4, at Morris |
- WwW. L. Smith, Folsom, Cal.—Yes, Juck always | Park, N. Y.
. a, John, East Pittsburg.—Letter intended for your
.. irs. C. F., New Haven, Conn.—Writeto him care | brother reached PoLick GAZETTE office in envelope
e f York Clipper. addressed to Sam C. Austin. Probably a mistake.
x H. M.,. Baltimore, Md.—There is no fighting in | What shall we do with it ?
r Newark or Jersey City. S.J.S., Asotin, Wash.—What will the hand in
k. Mack. New York.—Send address for PoLice Ga- | cribbage count when a man holds four sixes anda
" ze re list of supplement pictures, three spot turned up? What does the four treys anda
. j L. J.. Datton, Ga.—Have you ever published a} nine spot count ? 82 &2SM
" supplement of Ed De Groote ?......No. C. J. C., Peterborough, Ont.—Was John L. Sulll- |
" 1. B.. Winton, Pa.—Referee’s decision is final. | van ever champion of the world? Who holds the
Your fault for not baving a competent official. championship belt of the world for heavyweights at
e Reader, Knoxville, Pa.—A says Lou Dillon steps | present?......1. No. 2 Belt is in the possession of
; » feet with her bind legs ?...... Have no measurements. | Richard K. Fox.
ft J. A. S., Fall River, Mass.—I want to know the R. C., Columbus, Ohio.—No. 1 bets that Wheeling,
exact paid attendance at the World’s Fair at St. Louis? | W. Va., is in Ohio; No. 2 bets it is not; No, 2 concedes
7 18,741,073. the fact that Wheeling, W. Va., is in Ohio County ?......
1. M., Paterson, N. J.—A bets B that he can call | No. 1 loses his bet unless he specifies Ohio County in
‘ 1,00 pinochle without having or showing the trick ? | making his wager.
5 Ile cannot. G. M. A., New Orleans, La.—If by swimming
. M. O., Plymouth.—Horse anc pepper; played with | every day cana person learn toswim a long distance and
e a euchre deck; bid on your hand same as in pedro ? get good endurance? Who is known to be the strong-
r Never heard of it. est man in the world ?. ....1. That is the only way. 2.
e Gi. C.. Chicago.—What was tine decision of the last | Louis Cyr, of Canada,
_ fight between Fitzsimmons and Jeffries ?......Jeffries L. R., Milwaukee, Wis.—Indian dice; where three
won in eight rounds. or more start the game; first piayer shakes four fours
y Reader, Highland Park, Mich.—How many races | in three shakes; second player shakes four sixes in two |
. has L., Jackson won from May 1, 1901, to May 1, 1902? | shakes; how many shakes are the remaining players
3 Who is L, Jackson ? allowed to bave?......Three,
e F. W. E., Baltimore, Md.—What trade has John J.L., Cleveland, O.—Cinch; two-handed, each man |
i L. Sullivan; what is the address of Sullivan ?......1. No | has ten points; the game is eleven points; A bids one; |
trade. 2. Ontbe road. 3. Have sent list. B bids two; A makes low, and throws up his hand and |
4 Cc. W. H., Grand Island, N<-b.—We have two | says he is out; B makes highand game; house rules, |
. apiece to go in a game of seven-up; which goes out | points go out; who wins ?......B wins. m ns
first, hign game or low Jack ?......Low Jack. B., New York.—A bets B on the race between Joyce
S. H.R., Natchez, Miss.—Was a Japanese wrest- | and Hynes to be held at Celtic Park, July 4; is it de-
‘ ler defeated by an American not long ago ?......Yes. | clared off or has he got to pay B for the race run at
t Hagashi was defeated by George Bothner. Boston; A claims the race: B claims that there was no
' H. M. W., Thomaston, Conn.—Cribbage; A holds | race, that they did not race on the grounds where bet wins.
{seven spots, with ace turned up; A counts 24 holes; ; was made ?...... Bet is off.
d } counts only 20 holes; which is rigit ?......24 1s right. R.c. H., Deer River, Minn.—Auction pitch; A | three eights; B stays on three sixes; C
i J. A. McD., Chisholm, Minn.—In case of three | has 9 points; B has 8 points; A bids 2 and B bids 3; |
: prizes offered for log rolling contest and only one person | B makes his 3 points which are low jack and the game;
i participates and gives an exhi ition; is he entitled to | A holds high; B claims the game on the groundsof the pot have to be played over ?
t lirst prize or the three ?......One prize, the first. having made his 3 points; A claims the game on the
2 ). H. G., Bridgeport, Conn.—In a game of | grounds of holding high ? ... High wins. is dealing; A bids two;
pinochle; A has melded his cards, called for his count M. A. M., Peoria, Iil.—In a three handed game of
: to scorer, picks up his meld, and the one next to | pinochle A announces the following hand: 150 trumps
‘ dealer leads; after the lead A puts down another meld | in diamonds, 80 kings, 60 queens, 20 spades, 20 hearts and
' he hadn’t seen; can he do that ?...... He can do it. 20 clubs; A claims his hand counts 390; B clain.s only
F <a — a a — cE TERI N
: Saeeceniianl oe soo

B pegs one for last card.

IT DOESN’T MAKE ANY

DIFFERENCE WHETHER YOU

ARE A BASEBALL EXPERT OR WHETHER YOU KNOW

) NOTHING

ABOUT THE GAME

MANAGER-CAPTAIN

JOHN J. McGRAW’S BOOK

CONTAINS SOMETHING

THAT WILL

BE OF INTEREST

TO YOU. » YOU’VE HEARD OF McGRAW, HAVEN’T YOU?

WELL, HE WRITES JUST AS GOOD AS HE PLAYS BALL.

SFO LTP Pl, PY Pa ees. ee ee

PRICE 10 CENTS, Postage 4 Cents Extra.

¢ RICHARD K. FOX, Publisher, New York City.

OR ALL-ROUND DEVELOPMENT THE MILITARY EXERCISES ARE THE BEST--12 CENTS IN STAMPS

ALEX SAMUELSON. LEO BERLOW. SHAD LINK.

THE HUSKY GRAPPLER WHO IS AFTER HE IS A CRACK LIGHTWEIGHT WRESTLER CLEVER WRESTLER OF BALTIMORE, MD.,
A MATCH WITH ANY. OF THEM. OF NEWARK, N. J. WHO BARS NO ONE.

S. A. BERNI. YOUNG AMERICA. JACK LYDON.

OWNER OF ‘THE BARBARA RIGHT NAME IS GEORGE DANSES; HE HAILS FROM MANAGER OF OSCAR GARDNER
CAFE, MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. BALTIMORE, MD., AND HE IS A WRESTLER. THE OMAHA KID.

A. RICHARDSON. THEY ARE GOOD ON THE DIAMOND.

A HARD-HITTING 1J0-POUNDER OF THE BASEBALL TEAM OF TROOP A, TENTH UNITED STATES CAVALRY, WHO ARE
PENSACOLA, FLA. STATIONED AT FORT ROBINSON, NEB. AND ISSUE A CHALLENGE,

‘dn.LS AMOGNAW1dA JHL NI AMON SI 3H SV ‘NIVOV SaN.L AHL NO Nags 3d ASARN THM OHM ‘ASCNVOIAV LVaNo 4

LLNUNM ‘GN.LS AMOGNAW1Tad JHL NI MON SI 3H SV ‘NIVOV SANL AHL NO NaS 3d AXARN TIM OHM ‘AXGNVOISAVY LVAND FHI

AN ATHLETIC
SALOONIST

Wise Bartenders will Get Good Tips
in This Column.

Patrick J. Maloney, of 14 Linoleum alley,
Pittsburg, Pa., isa well-known saloonist who has a host

of friends in that section of the country. He takes an
active interest in athletics, and as a sprinter has few
equals, particularly at the 10-yard mark. Mr. Maloney
is an admirer of the POLICE GAZETTE.

MIX A NOVEL DRINK
FOR A COSTLY MEDAL

Bartenders are Invited to Compete for
**Police Gazette’’ Trophies for 1906.

Keep right on sending in your recipes for new drinks.

You will be put to no expense so far as the POLICE
GAZETTE is concerned, for we charge you nothing.

Come and get a medal,

There are three of them, and if you didn’t win the
last time perhaps you will be more fortunate in this
contest.

That last contest was great.

Do you know what it means to win a POLICE GAZETTE
medal ?

You ought to,

It doesn’t only mean that you have come into posses-
sion of an artistically engraved piece of gold.

It means fame for you,

There never yet was & man who won a POLICE Ga-
ZETTE trophy who didn’t prosper.

Of course, a great many have been foolish and threw
away their opportunities, but wise, level-headed fellows
came out all right every time.

Try for these medals:

FIRST PRIZE-—875.00 Gold Medal.
SECOND PRIZE—850.00 Gold Medal.
THIRD PRIZE—8256.00 Gold Medal.

Now go ahead and send in a recipe for some kind of
a new drink,

See what you can do about it.

Get in line as soon as possible.

All recipes sent in will be published in this column in

| ful of sugar;

dashes Maraschino; one pony Plymouth gin;

one-half pony French Vermouth. Shake well,

strain in punch glass, dress with pineapple and
serve with straws.

HOITY TOITY TODDY.
(By W. A. Reed, Kansas City, Mo.)
Take long toddy glass; crush lump sugar with
littie seltzer; muddie three or four sprigs mint;

two dashes raspberry syrup; two

add lump ice; three or four dashes Orange bDit- |

ters; one-quarter jigger Vermouth; decorate
with slice orange and let customer help himseif
to Sloe gin; serve giass water on side.

JAMAICA COCKTAIL.
(By Abrabam Columbus, Jacksonville, Fla.)

Take large bar mixing glass; one dash of some
good bitters; two or three dashes syrup; little
Curacao; whiskey glass imported Jamaica rum;
Absinthe, one or two dashes, if wanted; always
ask; twist piece of lemon peel over top and
serve.

CARRIE NATION,
(By Patsy Holliban, Ash Fork, Arizona.)

Take large bar giass; fill half-full with cracked
ice; one tablespoon sugar; Juice one lemon;
almost fill glass with seltzer; one-third wine
glass Raspberry syrup; stir well; decorate with
Slice quartered orange; serve With straws.

ST. LOUIS GOLDEN
(By George A. Barrett, Brooklyn, N. Y.)

Use large bar glass; one spoon powdered sugar;

three or four dashes Essence of Lime; yolk one

egg; one-quarter jigger Applejack; one Jigger

| Canadian Sloe gin; half fill glass with fine ice;

shake well; strain in fizz glass: top off with
| seltzer or Carbonic water,

FIZZ,

EAGLE FLIP.
(By W. A. Burns, Davenport, Iowa.)

Mixing glass half full shaved ice; one Jigger
brandy; one jigger Tom gin; one and one-half
large bar spoon sugar; one whole egg; three
dashes Absinthe; fill with cream and shake
well; strain into thin serving glass; serve with

fruit, or, if preferred, use the siphon.

MAGGIE WALKER.
(By Jobn E., Broderick, Great Barrington, Mass.)
One teaspoon fine sugar; six dashes lemon
juice; one wine glass St. Croix rum; large bar
glass half full shaved ice; stir well with spoon;

| strain into fancy bar glass; flil up with White
| Rock water seven-eighths full; top off with little

| to the face,

good Claret.

JACK DROPPED ONE.

The event of the evening at the Broadway A. C.,
Philadelphia, on July 13, was Jack Johnson facing two
men, Morris Harris and Black Bill Harris was the
first to face the big fellow, Johnson, and the latter was
not slow in finishing his first opponent. Harris put
several to the body inthe first round, while Johnson
sent his rightto the face. Again Harris lel for the
body and Jack uppercut him with his right, dropping
Morris, Jack repeated the blow a moment later and
Harris went down and out. After a minute’s rest
Black Bill took the centre of the stazge and he did very
well, Bill stayed the three rounds with Johnson, and
in the first two he stood up and fought Jack, with the
result that some hard exchanges were witnessed. Both
reached the face bard and often in the first round.

In the second they came to a clinch and each used
his right tothe body and ribs. Jack missed a vicious
right he aimed at Bill’s jaw and the latter sent his left
They swapped hard ones to the face before
the bellrang. Again some good exchanges were seen
in the last round, but Johnson got the upper hand with
a right and left to the Jaw, and he was entitled to the
verdict. But Bill made a good showing.

The opening number was between Teddy Moloney
and Jimmy Livingston, which was stopped in the

| fourth, as Livingston did not have a chance,

the order in which they are received, together with the |

inventor's name and address.

It doesn’t make any difference where you are em-
ployed; so long as you are a bartender you are eligible
in this contest.

A LOW BALL.
(By Milton E, Cook, Kewanee, IIL.)

Use high Dall glass; one lump ice; three or
four dashes Orange bitters; one glass rye whis-
key; fillgiass with plain soda; stir with spoon
and serve.

A PEACH,
(By F. H. Steward. Athens, Ohio.)

Use bar glass half full cracked ice; ons glass
Peach brandy; one glass ginger ale; one dash
Orange bitters; one dash Angostura; stir with
spoon and serve,

VANCOUVER STAG.
(By E. B. Johnson, Vancouver, B. C.)

Mixing glass half filled with cracked ice; dash
Orange bitters; dash Angostura ; three dashes
Maraschino; pony Cherry whiskey; stir, strain
into sour glass and add Shasta water.

UNION PUNCH.
(By E. B. Johnson, Vancouver, B. C.)

Mixing glass half full fine ice; juice of halfa
lemon; juice of half an orange; one-half spoon-

PLEASE MENTION THE

Eddie Weilace and the Ace of Clubs then came to-
gether and the former handed out some good wallops
tothe Ace’s face and body, flooring the colored boy
with a left hook to the jaw. In the next two rounds
Club did very well, and in the fourth he carried the
tight to Wallace and the result was a particularly warm
round, both giving and taking some hard knocks,
Wallace took a big lead in the last two rounds, sending
several rights to the Jaw that shook the Ace up a bit,

*Ike Taylor disposed of Kid Boston in one round, and
Johnny Dougherty knocked out Battling Kelly in the
sixth.

JAMES J. CORBETT

THE WORLD’s.—— =
CLEVEREST BOXER

HAS WRiTTeA——————

A GREAT BOOK
ON BOXING

IT IS NO. 9 OF

FOX’S ATHLETIC LIBRARY

CONTAINS 32 FULL...
PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS

PRICE

Postage

3 cents extra.

NTS

RICHARD K. FOX, Franklin Sq., NEW YORK.

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY —

Takes pictures as fast as a person can pose in front of it
perfect photograph. neatly framed and finished, in less than one minu
and will operate regardies« of the weather. making as perfect a liken:.<
under the electric light as on a bright, sunuy day.
that delivers a perfect photo.

The Photoscope

Deliver. 4

The only slot machi: «

Some Machines Average Profits

as High as $100.00 per day.

Our 1905 mode! is 50 per cent. better than the machine we were putti
out last year at the same price.
Write for catalogue.

M. S. KLINE, Caxton Bidg, Buffalo, Wi, Y.

Address.

$513 PROFIT IN 51 DAYS ON AN INVESTMENT OF S150

Was the Result of the Operation of One
AMERICAN BOX BALL ALLEY IN SULLIVAN, IND.

( Patented.)

Box Ball is the New BOWLING GAME,

and attracts patronage 7 all classes,
OPERATE. NO PIN
Balls.
tells you al about alll

BOY NEEDED.
Dept.

Makes bie money in connection with CIGAR STORES.
POOL AND BILLIARD ROOMS, REGULATION ALLEYS,
in fact where the space is available BOX BALL will make BIG MONEY

NO TROUBLE TO INSTALL and NO EXP
2.000 Alleys soid.
We bave customers o = from 1 to 15 Alleys each.

_AHMERICAN BOx BALL co:

BARBER SHOPS, ETC...
Very enthusiastic and scientiti.
ENSE TO
30 to 48 feet lonu, 3 feet wide. Use 43 incl
Cash or payments. Our booklet is free ani
PANY, indianapolis, Ind.

DOUBLE PAGE OF ‘SAILORS

The men of Uncle Sam’s Navy are bound to
be of interest, under all circumstances, and
the results of Police Gazette photographer’s
camera will be shown in a great double page
in No. 1461, out Aug. 10. If you are not
already a subscriber, that is a good number
to begin your subscription with.
of that issue and look

In any
event get a copy

| it over.
SPORTING. _
CANDY WHEELS 60 spaces, Best on the
Market. Price with 12
Paddles $25. The only Expert Dice work made in
Transparent Banking Crap Dice. ‘Transparent first

Flop Dice New. Transparent Electric Dice made by
us only. eee ohne $9 wd day. Block out ink,

entirely new work $1.00 per

Guaranteed SO Per »ttle. Roulecte Wheels

complete with 1,000 Harris Checks $185.00 Harris in-

laid Checks, Round Edges, $23 per 1,000 Check Cop.

The Poker Player’s Best Friend, $3.00 Per Bottle. Send

for our new Catalogue Free. H. C. EVANS &

co., 125 CLARK STREET, CHICAGO,

MONEY MAKERS for FAIRS and RACES

Automatic or Flectric

p () RTI N ( Spindles, special Wheels for

Red and Black, Chuck Luck,

Paidle Wheel with arrow.

Everything in Roulette

G 0) 0 0) 5 Wheels and sporting room

supplies. Headquarters for

Bar Magnets, Electric Drawers, etc. Canes $12. per 1,000.

| ar mgt Knife Outfits and Boards, C ni Cane Racks, Baby

Racks, Big Six and other Wheels. 250 pieces A-1 Jewelry only $5.00,
FREE catalog of everything in Spurting Goods. Address

KFRNAN MFG, CO., Dept, 11 1870 W. Lake St., Chicago, MI,

EXPERT WORK.

Loaded Dice £5.00. Marked

cards 1.00. Metal Roulette

Wheels, best made, Spindles,

ete. Greatest Catalogue ever

Written on ambling FREE. ARR &

0., 56 FIFTH AVENUE, Chicago. Ill.

TR AN Loaded Crap Dice 83.00 Pair,

White Miss-outs 81, Passers #1,

Cards 75c., Ink 1.50, First Flops and Box

82, Shiner &2.50, Magnet 825. New cat. free.

A. GOVE, 120 Littleton Ave., Newark, N. J.

MARKED CARD deck, $8.50 per dozen. Per-

fect dice work, latest transparent work. New hold out.

Fine block out ink, spindles, etc., etc. New catalogue

fre. J. F. KNAUTH & CO., Eau Claire, Wis.

ROULETTE outfit complete $175.00. Cage, Dice

and Lay-out, the good kind #25.00,

Spindles, Bar Magnets, Hold-outs, etc. Try us. THE

AUTOMATIC SPECIALTY CO. Manu-

facturers, 773 Girard street, Chicago, Ill.

Por HOW TO WIN

Sample deck, stamped, marked back, cards

with key, 35. Dice, inks, ete, Catalog free.

JAS. JOHNSON &GO., Austin, Ill. e
CLUB ROOM GOODS fesec'*snrsets
tables. iayouts.
ete. Finest checks in U.S. Send for Iitst.
HARRIS & 0... S82 University Place. New York.

Transparent Marked Cards, Electric Magnets,
Banking Dice 6 decks $5. for dice throwing.
10 dice $10. Fair ground games LIST FREE,

Deane & Laser, 1057 Central Ave., Cincinnati, O.

ICE, Cards, Roulette, Faro, Block Out Ink and Sport-
ing Goods of every desc ription. Catalogue free.
Will & Finck, 57 Third Street, San Francisco, Cal.

LOCK OUT INK. Sample tree.
JOHN F. SKINNER, 137}, 5th St.,

Cards. Dice,
San Franciseo, Cal,

AGENTS WANTED.

Send us your address
ad ay ure and we will show you
how to make $3 aday

absolutely sure; we

furnish the ys and teach you free, you work in

the locality where you live. Send us your address and we will
explain the business fully, remember we ee aclear profit
of $3 for every day’s work absolutely sure. Write at once,
ROYAL MANUFACTURING CO., Box §54, Detroit,Mich.

SALOON SUPPLIES.

If You Want Everything Clean and Bright, Try

BAR wera: poise.

Pound box 25c, at Druggists and Dealers. |

Highest Award. Chicago World's Fair,

PROPRIETA RY A RTICLES.

MEN AND WOMEN,

Use Big G for unnatural
discharges,inflammations,
irritations or ulcerations
of mucous membranes.

Painless, and not astrin-

gent or poisonous,

Sold by Draggists,
or sent in plain wrapper,
by express, prepaid, for
Circular sent on request,

NEVER KNOWN TOFAIL

Tarrant’s Extract of Cubebs and Copaitiba,
the tasteless, quick and ti.orough cure for Gon-
orrhea, Gleet, Whites, etc. Used successfully

URE
Guaran
not to stricture.

for over 60 years; causes no stricture. At druygists
$1.00, or by mail in sealed package from The
Tarrant Co.,44 Hudson St.,New York City.

Standard remedy for Gleet,
Gonorrhea and Runnings
IN 48 HOURS. Cures Kid-
ney and Bladder Troubles.

GONORRHEA °F GLEET

Discharges stopped by Citrosandalene Capsules in 48
hours. Don’t waste time experimenting. Try them at our
expense. Money refunded if they fail, Guaranteed cure in
5 days. By mail$1. Citrosandalene Co., 66 B’way. N. Y.

PERSONAL.

1) LOVE | LETTER read two ways sand bound
to suit, 10c. postpaid , 6 Se
cret Photos, 10 cents postpaid; Rare Collection of 14
f tures of a couple before and after marriage, with a mass
of other interesting matter, 1C cents postpaid,or everythi
described in this advertisement bor 2 cents postpai
JOHN! H. HARRIS ,Dept.P.C.168 Hamlin Ave.Chicago,liL

A positive Remedy for
Sweaty Feetand Armpits.
Will reiieve the trouble in

ODOR CURE Perfectly a. $1.00 a box. Address
.» Lock Box 32, Wolcott, Ind.

NARMING LADY of fine appearance and lov-
ing disposition, worth $25,000, desires to MARRY
AT ONCE, No objec tion to poor or working man; will
assist husband financially immediately after marriage.
MRS. MORTON, E 12, 96 Fifth Ave., Chicago.

THOUSANDS WANT, 1? ,,a6 MARRIED

for free list of dese riptione. Many rich and beau-
tiful. Address ig GENTLEWOMAN MATRIMONIAL
CLUB, NEW YoRK, 4. Y.

MARRY WEALTH BEAUTY. Marriage

Directory
FREE, Pay when married. Entirely new plan. Send no
money for par’s. Select Club, Dept. 23, Tekonsha, Mich.

MARRIAGE PAPER FREE esc mons

r photos with big list. (Many
rich). _tieh). (esaled) d. Standard Cor. Club, 108 Avers Ave. »Chieage, Il ut.

10,000: 000 ARE ANXIOUS TO CET MARRIED
_RMitenes FREE. The PIL ot, A2, 168 Mamiin Ave., Chicago

Our cuPIoS. LOVE CHARM

a “Win a bs ‘1 ae auare om, a
old, quick, | eatieg sure. Never fail. No bum’
Pachage with foil directions lig Bior Sie. BOR 4, Woatewite. nw. N.v

OUNG LADY, age 25, handsome, worth "$25,000

and will inberit $17,000 more, wants honorable hus
band. Address Mrs. W., 697 Fulton St.,C hicago

MARRIAG!

MA RRIAGE

PAPER free. ‘lhe best in existence.
Eastern Agency B, Bridgeport, Conn.
PAPE R—Rest Published— Free.
THE CORRESPONDENT, Toledo, Obio.

ULOVE®: LETTERS,12 fo best gon ever cond. read TWO wors.crze tosntt. 100 100
2 Transparent Cards, a AFA Lovers Package, 10c. Boo
Three Secret Photos, 10c. A.SUPPLY CO., 601 Sta CHICAGO.

MACHINES.

SLOT

Wth Centuries 360. Success card machines $7. Above
machines MILLS make; New Century Detroits $40.
Puck’s musical plain cabinet with Century coin tops
$45. Success card machines $7; latter machines, Callie
Bros’. make; failure getting privilege at park reason
selling cheap, Advance Cycle & Machine Co., Columbus, 0.

iD Varieties; Levitim»te and gaming machines,
new and second-hand at cut prices. Send for list.

1893, Louisiana Purchase Ex position, 1904. | Pp. SLOAN, NOV. & MFG. CO., 932 N. Ninth 8t., Philadelphia

POLICE GAZETTE

WHEN YOU WRITE TO THE ABOVE ADVERTISERS

"vw wa

\ HUSTLING

| But De Oro bad different plans for the future.
was a wonder from the start. In a few months after

‘| You Have a Good Photograph of

Yourself Send it Along.

Joseph Cola, of 251 East 109th street, New
York City, is a hustling young tonsorialist, whose well-
equipped place is patronized by many well-known in
the upper section of the city. Though a young man,
Mr. Cola handles the razor and shears with the skill of
a veteran, and his work is thoroughly up-to-date. He
isa member of many clubs and societies, in which he
takes an active interest,

AN INTERESTING DOUBLE PAGE

Picturing Sailors in Athletic Events, will be
the feature of Police Gazette No. 1461, out
Aug. 10. No better series of pictures has ever

appeared in any paper. If you are not a

subscriber bear in mind that you can order
the Gazette from any newsdealer in the
world,

MARTIN BESTED CONNELLY.

Tommy Connelly, the Reading, Pa., boxer, met Terry
Martin, cf Philadelphia, in his home town on July 13,
in a ten-round argument,

It was a furious bout from the start to the finish.
Considering bis weakness from six weeks of illness
with typhoid fever, the Reading boy's showing was all
that could be expected. Martin was the aggressor in
every round, and several times it looked as if he would
knock the Reading man out. Martin is fighting ata
fust pace these days. He has a terrific wallop. The
Philadelphia boy had the advantage in height and
weight.

DE ORO THE CHAMPION.

Alfredo De Oro, who recently regained the title of
pool champion of the worldin a special match with
Jerome Keogh, of Buffalo, in the latter’s academy, is
out with a challenge unique in the history of baize cloth
LHumMes,

Champion De Oro throws down the gauntlet to all
the champions of the cue, and says that he stands ready
und willing to play any man living acombination game
of pool and billiards,

De Oro declares that he would prefer to play a cors-
bination game of three-cushion caroms and straight
pool, 600 points at pool and 300 at three-cushion, the

on becoming a student in one of the big Eastern col-

leges.
De Oro’s father was wealthy and he wanted his son
to have an education becoming to his station in life.
De Oro

be began to play he was champion of the club, and in
less than a year bis name was known in all the bigh-
Class billiard balls in New York.

His success decided De Oro's career, and he became
&@ professional pool player.

De Oro’s most notable performance was his victory
Over Keogh at the World’s Fair tournament, held in
St. Louis last Fall.

All the best players in the world were in the match,
including Grant Eby, of New York: Frank Sherman,
Washington; Billy Clearwater, of Pittsburg; Charley
Weston, of Denver; Kid Hueston, of St. Louis: B. HH.
Brumby, of Marietta, Ga.; Jerome Keogh, of Buffulo,
N. Y., and De Oro.

The match resulted in a three-corner tie between
Hueston, Keogh and De Oro.
easily polished off
opponent in Keogh.

In the play off De Oro
Hueston, but found a stubborn

BARBERS Wanted barber in each town to handle
our proposition in connection with
his work. Big money tor good men. W.C.

’ FISK,
503 LOVAL GUARD BLDG.., Detroit, Mich.

PHYSICAL CULTURE

AND

POUND DUMB-BELL EXERCISES

No. 2—PROF. ITTMANN’S
PHYSICAL CULTURE AND

BREATHING EXERCISES

No. 3—JOHN
McGRAW’S
BOOK ON
BASEBALL

No. 4—THE
OFFICIAL
BOOK OF
RULES FOR
ALL SPORTS

PHYSICAL
CULTURE
FOR WOMEN,
By Belle Gordon

No. 6—UNITED STATES
ARMY EXERCISES,
BY PRIVATE FRANK IDONE

NO. 7—ART OF CLUB SWINGING
BY GUS HILL AND TOM BURROWS.

NO. 8—THE SCIENCE OF
JIU-JITSU, BY M. OHASHI

NO. 9—THE SCIENCE OF BOXING
BY JAMES J. CORBETT

PRICE 10 CENTS EACH

Postage Extra—Nos. 1, 2, 6, 7 and 8,
two cents, No, 9, three cents, No, 3, 4
and 5, four cents.

b ddd dtd bedded deed i pd

THESE BOOKS ARE THE

in baving the highest number of buttons on both |

strings at the end of the game to be declared the
winner,

Che Cuban’s challenge is directed at Jake Schaefer,
Cure, Fournil, Vignaux and other masters of the cue,
but if any of the pool players care to accept the condi-
tions De Oro is willing to play them.

te Oro’s challenge is the result of his position in the }

)0l world, The Cuban is to pool what Jeffries is to
ering. Atthe present moment De Oro has no oppon-
t, and from the outlook no one will care to tackle
ii at continuous pool in the near fature.

Finding that he has no more opponents at pool,

Oro faces the choice of engaging in billiards or

ngidle, De Oro is acapable billiard player, but is

rdly as strong as Schaefer, Fournil, Cure, Vignaux
'} several others. At pool, however, he is their mas-

, and he has hit upon a compromise between the

/ games,

e Oro is willing to play under the conditions named
‘ side bet of $1,000. He declares that such a game

ili involve neither the pool nor billiard champion-

ps, but would be extremely interesting to lovers of

i Styles of games.

e Oro’s recent victory over Keogh makes him the
sputed champion, and while there are several top-
hers at pool not one of them will take a chance
' De Oro.

e Cuban is the most remarkable player of the cen-
For seventeen years he has been the champion
® world, with the exception of a few occasions

i the title slipped from him by default, owing to
it he has never been beaten in a match, with the
ption of a rather unimportant one with Al Powers,

¢ champion is a high-caste Cuban, and is proud of

neestry. Born near Manzanillo, Cuba, he was
1 on a large plantation and did not know whata

table was until he visited New York City. intent

BEST ON THE MARKET
BOWERY LIFE

By Chuck Connors.

Tulustrated,
Postage 4c. extra,
Scientific Wrestling
by Geo. Bothner.

Postage 4 cts. extra.

Every Sufferer
CT ONE—lt takes time to

tell whether you are permanently cured by a treat-
ment, Or merely patched up for the present.

FACT TWO—The Cook Rem-

edy Co, is the only company or medica) association
in existence that has been treating Sy phills
long enough to know that its patients are cured to
Stay cured.

FACT THREE—The Cook
pone Co, has many patients who were cured by
its magic remedy eighteen years ago, who are to-
day sound ‘and well.

FACT FOUR — Many patients
that were cured by the Cook Remedy Co. eighteen
years ago now have children grown to manhood

blemish

The Cook Remedy Co. solicit the most
obstinate cases. This disease bas always baffled
the skill of the most eminent pbysicians. For
many years the Cook Remedy Co. have made a
specialty of treating this dimease, and they have
unlimited capital behind their unconditional
guaranty.

and with the sume guaranty. With those who
prefer to go to Chicago the Cook Remedy Co, will
contract to cure them or pay railroad and hotel
bills and make no charge if they fail to cure.

Syphilis becins usually with a _ \Ilittle
blister or sore, then swelling in the groins,a red

appear in
ulcerated, the bair, eyebrows and lashes fall out,
and as the blood becomes more contaminated,

You can be treated at home for the same price

eruption breaks out on the body, sores and ulcers
the mouth, the throat becomes

THE POLICE GAZETTE. NEW YORK CITY

LOOD POISO

FACTS of Vital Importance to

and womanhood In perfect health and without a ®mtee you are absolutely sure of a cure or your
FACT EIC H T—ooa health is the most important thing in the world to any person,
ABOVE EIGHT FACTS ARE ABSOLUTELY UNDENIABLE.

WHY HESITATE ONE DAY IN BECINNING THIS WONDERFUL CURE ?

WRITE FOR FREE 100-PAGE BOOK TO

COOK REMEDY CO. 222,Masenic Temple

rom Blood Poison
FACT FIVE—The Cook Remedy

Co, is the largest and the only successful company
In the workd that makes the cure of Syphilis
a specialty.

FACT S$1X—Patients cured by
Cook Remedy Co. are constanUy passing success-
fully the very rigid examinations of the most con-
servative life insurance companies, and are passing
the examinations tor admission to the army and
navy of the United States,

FACT SEVEN-—If you take

Cook Remedy Co.'s treatment under their guar-

money back.

copper-colored splotches and pustular eruptions
and sores appear upon diflerent parts of the body,
and the poison even destroys the bones.

The Cook Remedy Co. has a specific for this
loathsome disease, and cures it even in its worst
forms. Itis a perfect antidote for the powerful
virus that pollutes the blood and penetrates to all
parts of the system. Uniess you get this poison
out of your blood it will ruin you and bring dis-
grace and disease upon your children, for it can be
transmitted from parent to child,

Write tor the Cook Remedy Co.'s free home
treatment book and learn all about Syphilis.
If you want medical advice give a history of your
case, and their physicians will furnimh all the infor-
mation you wish without any charge whatever.

Your salvation depends on Cook Remedy Co,,
They will surely cure you. They velleve no other
method of treatment will cure you.

MEDICAL.

WEAK MEN!

I found in the Philippine Islandsa won-
derful and positive cure for failing man-
hood, impotency, emissions and w
drains. It restores vigor, potency an
strength to men atany age. In proofI
mail you, on request, sealed Free Treat-
ment. No cost or trouble. Write for it.
Letters to me are beld sacredly private.
I guarantee a com ce cure.
d Dr. Fred’k Main, Lk.Bx, 671, Jackson, Mich

MEN ANY AGE

Made strong and vigorous. Toany man suffering with
Atrophy, Varicocele. Wasting, or any form of Weak-
ness, I will present free a small trial box of Vigorotine
Ointment. It bas done wonders for others. Same can
be done for you. Many testimonials praising its merits.

lar size box $1.00; 4 boxes $3.00. Satisfaction guaran-

Hours 10 to 9. F. DEAN, 619 Third Ave., New York.

MEN it you are suffering from Atrophy

or your natural powers weakened, our

- Acme Method will restore you, without
drugs or electricity; Urethral Obstruction

and Varicocele permanently cured in one

to four weeks. 75,000 yple using this

é treatment; not one failure. Write for
ree book, sent sealed in plain envelope.

ACME MFG. CO., 542 Barclay Bik., Denver, Col.

BROWN’S CAPSULES

Safe, certain and quick; easy totake. Not an injec-
tion. Cannot cause stricture. Stop ordinary drains
in 48 hours and cure in the shortest possible time con-
sistent with nature. Price, $1. Mailed in plain sealed
package. Dr. B.L. Brown, 935 Arch 8t., Philadelphia, Pa

VIGORINE WILL DO FOR YOU

WHAT IT HAS DONE FOR THOUSANDS
OF OTHER WEAK MEN. A $2.00 box for

fied. Is it a fair offer? Try it. Particulars free
GEO. VATES, Box 152, Jersey City, N. J.

LADIES. °®.L25RANCo’s

: a COMPOUND.
Bafe, speedy ator; 25 cents. ate or mail
Booklet free. DR. LaFRANCO, Philadelphia, Pa.

$1.00 and a guarantee to refund your dollar if not satis- |

RHEUMATISM Quick fetter ana Cure.

Trial treatment tree to any
Natiopal Medical Institute, Milwaukee,

OPIUM

WATCHES AND JEWELRY.

sufferer.
Wis.

and Liquor Habit curedia 10
to 20 days. No pay till cured.
Write DR. J. L. STEPHENS CO.,
Dept. T. 3, Lebanon, Ohio.

Boxing, How to Train
Postage 3c. extra.

Postage 2c. extra,

THE DOG PIT
Postage 2c. extra,

Hoffman House
Bartenders Guide
Postage 4c. extra.
BARBERS BOOK
OF RECIPES

Postage 2c. extra,

PRICE 25 CENTS EACH

ANY OF THE ABOVE WILL BE SENT TO YOUR ADDRESS
ON RECEIPT OF THE PRICF,

"RICHARD K. FOX, Franklin Sq., NEW YORK,

The Cocker’s (Guide |

This ELEGANT Watch $3:25

pnp d meds fet en cut this out and
your name address, and we wil) send you by exprea

for examination s hands me WaTss! ANO
bunting case, beautifully engraved. stem wind end
stem set. fitted with » richly jeweled movementand
guaranteed & correct timekeeper; with long Gold
lated chain for Ladies or vest chaln for Gents.
f you consider it equal to any $35 GOLD
FILLED WATCH Warranted 20 YEARS.
y the express agent $3.75 and it ls yours. Our
be year guarantee sent with each watch. Mention

if you want Gents’ or Ladies’ size Address
B FARBER &CO KOS. 23 Quincy. CHICAGO.

MISCELLANEOUS.
How to make anyeee

LOVE CHARM ior: jcsrriis teres

everiasting love. Safe, sure and harmieis, forold
or young. Acts quickly. Fall secret 10c. (silver).
SUPPLY ce. No. 596 Austin Sta. Chicare

BOOKS rare and realistic. Send stamp for cata-
logue. Ross Co., 371 Dearborn St., Chicago.

as It Gracia’s Fault; read and find out, 10 cts,
Address R. Hamilton, Barnes, lowa,

DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES up-to-date SPECIALTIES;
enclose 2c. stamp for reply. Box 723, N. Y. City.

MEDICAL.

BLOOD POISON CURED!

A Positive and Permanent Cure
Guaranteed in Every Case.
Failure is Never Known, Ne
Matter How Long Standing
The Disease.

Sufferers from thia dreadful dis-
order know tho injurious effects to
the system that come from the
* usual mercury and lodide of potash
treatment, and the distressing phy sical after results,

These are entirely avoided by these of

STERLINC’S ROYAL REMEDY
Thies wonderful remedy, which contains no Injuri-
ous drugs or mineral pulsons, goce directly to the
root ofthe disorder. It drives the isonous germ
from the systenrand restores it tochildhood’s purity.
REWARD will be paid for any case of
5 blood poison that this rem-
edy will notcure permanently. Write fur FREE book-
let, giving full information aboutthis great remedy.
THE JOHN STERLING ROVAL REMEDY CO.
DEPT. B. KANSAS CITY, MO.

IMEN ONLY

CACTUS Restores Manhood,

Sanaa Banishes Atrophy,

Cures Impotency,

Varicoccle and all weakness of man,
Cactus Cream is an outwardly applied salve,
Has only to be gently rubbed in to benefit,
One application positively proves tts value,
kes weak men strong and strong men
stronger, This is the original and only
Cactus Cream, and Is sent toal! parts of the
world, $1.00a box. Sealed sample 10c, silver.
PERRY! PRO. 0O., LYNBROOK, NEW YORK, U. 8. A.

YOUNG MEN!

‘or and Gleet get Pabst’s Okay Specific. It is
the ONLY medicine which will cure each and every case. NO
CASE known it has ever failed to oyee, ne matter how seri-

ous or of how long standing. Results from its
use willastonish you. Itis absolutely safe, pre- $3.22

vents stricture, and can be taken without incon-

venience and detention from business. PRICE.

For sale by all reliable druggists, or sent prepaid by express,
plainly wrapped, on receipt of price, by

Circular mailed on request. Pabst Chemical Co. (Not lnc.)CHICAGO. iLL
ruin your manhood by

SINGLE ME secret babita. My new

Patented Electric Protector makes it impos-
sible; « sure habit breaker. Permanently cures lost
vitality, weakening drains. varicocele, etc. This
little invention is a Godsend to men and

AND BOYWS—Don’t

boys. Nodrugs. NoC. 0. D, iraud, Book free,
in plain sealed envelope. ALLEN G.
TODD, 320 16th Street, Denver, Col.

THE

THE SOLVENT CURE

A pnainiess cure for STRICTURE, ENLARGED
PROSTATE, LOST VITALITY, and NERVOUS DE-
BILITY. Applied directly to the disense it removes
the cause of the trouble. Superior to any remedy
in use. Write to«lay for FREE BOOK and particulars.
Chervin Medical Co., Dept. I, 61 Beekman 8t., New York.

One box of Juven Pills will tell a
story of marvelous results. They
e gw have more rejuvenating, vitaliz-

—eee ing force than has ever before
been offered. Restore lost vitality, strengthen
shattered nerves. By mail in plain package on
receipt of this adv. and $1. C. I. Hood Co., pro-
prietors Hood's Sarsaparilla, Lowell, Mass. 300

On Chronic. Ner-

FREE BOOK #222"
Diseases. For

oth sexes—%
pages, 27 pictures, full description of above diseases
effects and cure, sent sealed in plain wrapper. Dr.
Henderson, 112 W. 9th Street, Kansas City, Mo.

SAN-METHYL PERL :

An efficient rem-

edy for the pre-
vention and treatment of Gonorrhea. Gleet,
ete. Price 50 cents. AMES & COMPANY,
534 EAST 47TH STREET. CHICAGO.

HE BEST MEDIUM FOR MAIL ORDER ADVERTISERS IS POSITIVELY THE POLICE GAZETTE

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

ro YOUNG SANDOW, MAGNIFICENT ATHLETE.

AN AMERICAN HERCULES WHOSE ACT HAS CREATED A FURORE AND WHO IS AT WORK ON A
PHYSICAL CULTURE BOOK TO BE PUBLISHED BY RICHARD K. FOX.

Supplement to the NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE, No. 1459, Saturday, July 29, 1905.

‘Faw

A. SO

ROGER BRESNAHAN.

Backstop of the New York Nationals who is Playing a Splendid Game, and
: HHe is Wariming the Ball Well Arotind the .j00 Mark.


=== sim_national-police-gazette_1886-02-06_47_438 ===

Copyrighted for 1886, by RICHARD K. FOX, ‘PROPRIETOR POLICE GAZETTE PUBLISHING HovsE, Franklin Square, New York.

Se) NEW YORK, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1886. {VOLUME ELVIN,

Price Ten Cents.

all

~ MEE, ox =m

ah y ili)
th ut

a ity vic

ANAS

AN AMERICAN BELLE DECLINES TO BE

“ONE OF OUR GIRLS.”

BOSSED IN

THE MATTER OF DRESS BY THE BRITISH GOVERNOR OF HONG KONG.

Aree *

eteoyrie 6) sgh

en ee i eae Ee

oe ee

eS SL TE Ce SES

Aycan tyre

Seeen seein

ine soempeasan woth

Ln EOL SET ES Te

ere EE SS

2 THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE

ESTABLISHE) $1546,

RICHARD K. FOX, - -

Franklin Square, N. Y.

FOR THE WEEK ENDING

SATURDAY, PEBRUARY 6, 1886.

TO NEWS AGENTS, POSTMASTERS, ETC.

I will give a liberal discount and furnish sample
copies and advertising matter free to all news
agents, postmasters and others who will make a
personal canvass of their districts for the POLICE
GAZETTE, the greatest: sporting and sensational
illustrated newspaper in the world, Send for full
particulars to RICHARD Kk. FOX,

Publisher, Franklin Square, New York.

THE MORAL VALUE OF PUGILISM.

To the*many cranks and fanatics who de-
nounce pugilism and boxing as brutal and de-
moralizing practices, amounting in principle to
positive crimes, we beg to commend the follow-
ing highly significant circumstances;

Last week two Virginian editors fell foul of
each other in the usual Virginian editorial way.
Aftér exchanging all manner of characteristic
sarcasms and epithets, the fatal word “ cow-
ard’’ passed between them.

Now in the good old days when pugilism and
boxing were heartily abused, and had no such
defender and champion as the POLICE GAZETTE,
these two Virginian editors would have met
upon “the field of honor’ armed with pistols,
and fired at each other ina strictly chivalrous
and murderous manner, until one or the other
dropped dead

Rut the teachings of the POLICE GAZETTE are
all-powerful evenin Virginia. The elder editor
wrote to the younger to say ‘that he could not
conscientiously fight a duel with pistols be-
cause he had a wife and children: dependent
upon him, whose claims upon him he would
not disregard orimperil by putting himself up
to be shot at like a Christmas turkey. But, feel-
ing that he owed some satisfaction to his foe,
and entertaining a natural desire to do battle
in some form, he would be pleased to assert his
manhood with bare knuckles, according to the
rules of the Marquis of Queensbury.

Case No. 2 is that of a couple of colored suit-
ors for the hand ofa quadroon belle, who were
so fierce in their rivalry that murder was con-
fidently looked for ‘until Frank White, a well-
known sporting man, persuaded the men to
fivht it out with bure fists, onthe understand-
ing that the winner should take the girl and a
purse of $10.

Surely an institution so restraining and so
ameliorating that it can transform the homi-
cidal instinct into a manly and healthy effort
to win a fair and well-contested victory is one
which not only the community at large but
every crank included in it ought to applaud
and seek to establish,

A VERY JUST DECISION.

Judge Brown, of the U, S: Circuit Court sitting
at Leavenworth, has decided that if the State
ot Kansas enforces its prohibitory law, it must
buy the breweries, distilleries and vineyards
which are rendered useless and virtually con-
fiscatead by the law. It is diffieult to see why
saloons, the value of whose fixvures and bar
appurtenances is also destroyed, do not come
within the purview of the decision. The im-
mense properties involved in this new view of
the case will go far to stagger the cranks and
fanatics. The prohibitory States will hardly be
prepared to invest in the beerand whisky busi-
ness to the extent required by this version of
their responsibilities,and the result will bea
general backing down of the Pharisees. For
when it comes to hard cash the best of them
lets go of his “reform” principles.

DRUMMERS TO 0 THE FRONT.

Of course the decision “of the Supreme Court
declaring unconstitutional the law of Michigan
taxing foreign drummers $300 for the privilege
of invading the State with a list of their wares,
applies to every State having this unjust and
absurd legislation on its statute books. Dis-
c.imination of this kind reacts on the people
enacting it. Wherever the drummer abounds,
competition is lively, prices are at the lowest,
people get good bargains and trade is brisk.
Lesides, the drummer has gotto be one of the

can’t be suppressed. The States which hav

undertaken tu tax him out of existence may as |

| fined one shilling and Turley £10.
well let up. The prevalent drummer is a preva- |... odes ey

Rut blessing. Let him alone,

Editor and Proprietor.

POLICE GAZETTE PUBLISHING HOUSE,

- | trained.

Dr. MARY WALKER is said to be growing
bald. She will achieve a position in the orches-
tra row ai the leg show before long.

A VIRGINIA gentleman, not satisfied with
being accused of two felonies, two straw bonds,
two wives—who were sisters—and nineteen
children, has eloped with a young girl.
tt SaFSENTs

ENGLAND is going to senda yacht named the
Galatea next suinmer t» capture the cup which
; the Genesta missed. The Americans wiJl
| doubtless have a Pygmalion ready.

SAM JONES is of the opinion that the devil is
| too much of a genotleimnan to stay where he is
| not welcome, and that if aman wants to get

~ | rid of him all he has to dois to tell bim to go.

FRANK JAMES takes three big drinks of
whisky every day now, and his consumption
doesn’t trouble him so much as it did while he
was in jail, with a prospect of stretching hemp
before bitin,

: Lee eee es

A PHILADELPHIA paper tells t a strange story
about a butterfly that has been tamed and
When the ferocity of the butterfly is
taken into account its subjection appears won-
derful indeed.

NOTWITHSTANDING the death of his mother
Paddy Ryan still avows an intention to fight
John L. Sullivan, Paddy is an affectionate son
and is not afraid to join his parent on the
golden shores.

JANON FARRAR intends to lecture in London
on his “Impressions of America.’’? As the Canon
bagged about twenty-five thousand of our cold
cash, he is an ingrate if he does not give the
United States a good send-off.

THE Rev. Joseph Cook has a lively faith
that total abstinence ‘will triumph before the
dawn ot the twentieth century. This is not a
very wide margin of time for distillers to wind
up their business and hunt some other occupa-
tion before the cataclysm strikes him.

THE telegraph says that Guatemala only had
113: earthquake shocks in one day recently.
The maa who stopped to calmly count 113
earthquake shocks in one day may not. know
it, but there are from cleven to twenty dime
museums on a wild hunt tor just such a man.

soe

JOSEPH Cook declares that the Americans are
the most drunken people on the face of this
planet. Joseph's statement is radical, sweeping,
urpatriotic and false. He has evidently never
taken the pains to investigate the present status
of drunkenness in Belgium, Switzerland and
‘Scotland,

A ate “Seen a ee

Mr. DEL CAMPO, the noisy young dude, rowdy
and deadbeat of the Chilean legation al Wash-
ingtcn, has received the order of the G. B. from
his government. Being deprived of his official
protection, his conduct will probably be a little
more guarded for the remainder of his stay in
the capitol.

ELI PERKINS declares that prohibition in
Kansas is a success, but in the same paragraph
he relates the tact that Kansas newspaper re-
porters copy the docket ot the drug stores in-
stead of going to the police courts for news. Eli
is said to be studying pharmacy with a view to
opening a drug store in Wamego.

_Tu1s Maud Miller, who on a winter’s day
raked up the sympathies of the Chicago news-
papers and made some i. +¥, Should be taken in
charge of some woman’s society for -aiding
women and taught how to earn $10 a month by
ty pe-writing without making a public spectacle
of herself and her family troubles.

THE Louisville (Ky,) Times headsits report of
last Monday’s legislative proceedings, “A Blue
Monday.’”’ Something wrong here. The Ken-
tucky legislator is untrue ‘to his traditions
when he has the blues. Admitting that he oc-
casionally tires of his customary vermillion,
seal-brown would seem to be as cadical a com-
promise as his dignity will permit.

A singular disclosure respecting temperunce
wines was made recently at the Birmingham
(Eng.) Police Court, when a confectioner named
Roscani and Messrs. Turley, manufacturers of
non-alcoholic wines, were committed by the
FBxcise authorities for selling intoxicating liq-
uors without a license. Messrs. Turley guar-
anteed their wines called port and sherry free
from alcohol; whereas, on analysis at Somer-

peculiar institutions of th t i} © shamans
; : SORE ONS He | oe alcohol, and the sherry, sold at eightpence,
| had 19 per cent. of alcohol init. Roseani was |

It was stated |

set House, the port, which was soldat sixpence
was tound to contain 17 per cent.

| that the wines had a large sale all over Eng-
land,

OUR PICTURES.

Events of the Week Pictorially
Delineated.

The _ Chiet

A Sleighirng Carnival in Washington.

We illustrate this week the unfamiliar spectacle of a
sleighing carnival‘ in Washington, D. C.,due to the
recent heavy snow falls.

Barbaric Cruelty.
Two doys. named Lioyd and Bradley, living at
Nanticoke, Pa., were locked ont of school.for being
tardy and almost troze to death in consequence.

A Glass Too M. ch.

A young mau named Williamson, living on Gates
avenue, Brooklyn, was arrested Jan. 24 for peering
into back windows at night with a pair of opera
glasses.

She Went Crazy.

Wooster, O., is highly indignant over the sudden in-
sanity of a young girl who went crazy at a mecting of
the Salvation Army. Her luuacy is ascribed to the
evil influence of the *‘Army.”

Lawful S:aughter.

‘The police of Sa‘em, Mass., made a raid recently on
acockpit and captured a lot of splendid birds. The
chickens were duly slaughtered 1p the presence of wit-
nesses and reduced to a pacific pot-pie.

Bottling Porter.

We illustrate this week tbe arrest, at an uptown
hotel, of the burglar, Billy Porter, by Bob Pinkerton.
Porter, who hadjust arrived from Europe, loadea
down with money and diamonds, is wanted for rob-
bing a firm of jewelers in Troy.

One of Our Girls.

" We illustrate this week the historic interview which
recently took place between an Amezican damsel and
the British Governor ot Hong Kong. He found fault
with the length of ber dress, and she retorted with an
intimation chat she didn’t propose to let him decide
her styles for her.

May Against Miller.

Fred May, the amateu” athlete, wbo stood James
Gordon Bennett on his head some years ago. one day
slapped Tifft Miller. publisher of Zife,ina restaurant
as he satat dinner. It was an invitation to a duel,
and rumor savs it will be accepted. Tifft Miller, by the
way, is knownasthe young map who was exception-
ally kind to poor Sadie Cortelyou.

Women Gaze on a Lynched Wretch.

The body of Holly Eops, who was hanged by a mob
at Vincennes, Ind.. dangled from the limb of a tree in
the Court House yard until 8 o’clock.
wanted to take the body down before daylight, but
some of the townspeople demanded that it should re-
main banging for the gaze of honest citizens and as a
warning to all transgressors of the law. A photogra-
pher arrived on the scene ai daybreak and photo-
graphed the kody. Hundreds of persons during the
early ndurs of the morning viewed the body. Men,
women and children looKed on the horrible spectacle
without evincing the slightest emotion or expressing
a feeling of regret.

Episode at a Philad:lphia Theatre.

Mrs. Ned Ettiug gave a large box party at McCaull’s
Opera House, Philadelpbia, last week, to witness
“The Black Hussar.” Among the party was Mrs.
Dunbar Price. Seated directly in front was Major
Jobn Wright, chairman of the Executive Committee
of the Board of Directors of the Academy of Music.
The latter, it is said, was frequently looking around in

an innocent way at Mrs. Price, when Louis Beyland,.

of New York, who was seated alongside ofthat lady,
took umbrage at what he considered impertinent star-
ing ou the part of Major Wright. He teft the lady,
retired to the lobby and sent word to Mr. Wright that
be wanted to see him. The latter refused to pay any
attention to the epistle. When Mr. Beyland sent an-
other card to tbe Major he received the reply: “I

don’t Know the man.”? Then Mr. Beyland walked:

down to where Mr. Wright was seated and a scene
followed which brought out Manager Morton, and he
expostulated with Mr. Beyland very vigorously. It is
said that Mrs. Price. entirely exonerautes Major
Wright from any attempt to insult he.

A Chinaman’s Courtship.

“Clara Belle,” the Cincinnati Lnquirer’s New York
correspondent, seems to be 4 confidant for all the
young women ot her“set.”. She makes public this
private letter to her, written, as she says, by a stout
blond with yellow hair and a sunny disposition:

“My story is simply this: I undertook to lead a
Chinese laundrymaa to salvation. J called at his shop
and did what I could to teach him English and Chris-
tianity. At first nothing would do but I must get him
the fawily washing—they are so mercenary. I got him
that and continued my visits. At the next to the last
visit be frightened me terribly. He showed me one ot
my garments folded away in a sandal-wood box, which
be took up and pressed tu his heart. I demanded the
garment, but could not get it. I went next time deter-
mined to get it or have the wretch arrested. It w.is
toobad. Hewas getting along so well; could read a
primer and bad renounced tbe worship ot idols. But
I would have my garment, and I told himso. .We
were In the back of the shop, and suddenly tt was 1n-
vaded by at least two dozen Chinamen. half the num-
ber with musical instruments and the rest with gro-
tesque food.

“*A Chinese feast was opened, and much wusic of a
diab lical kind was indulged in. [ could see I was
somehow the heroine of the occasion. Alas! I was
soon to understand it. An alderman was sbown in
and introduced tome. Glad to find a civilized being
present, [ asked him what was the matter. ‘Il am sent
for to marry you tothe keeper of the shop,’ said he;
‘aln’t you taking a bold step? Well. I guess he tound
out what I was taking. I just openeda few flocd-ga'ies
of wrath at bim, walked over and bexed young Ling

' Qu’s ears (that was the heathen I bad been teaching) |

till he crawled under the table, and then [I walked out

like a tragedy queen. The idea! Just to think of it—
' the silly fool thought I was courting him all the while

i was teaching him be had a soul to save.

Ugh?!”

THE annual ball of the Prospect Association will

take place at the Academy of Music on Thursday
evebing, Feb. 4.

NEW YORK.

The coroner |

OUR PORTRAITS.

The Men and Women Who Find Pictorial Fame in
These Columns.

Alderman Harry Piper isa noted sporting gentle-
man of Toronto, Can..and one of theable city tathers.
The great Zoological garden scheme has brought him
to the front and made him ever so popular among his
fellow townsmen.

Leslie Ch Chester.

We publish this week an excellent portrait of Miss
Leslie Chester, the new English beauty, now playing
with Rosina Vokes’ company of amateurs. She has
made almost as much of a sensation in New York as
Lily Langtry did.

Charles A. Vincent.

The creditors of this alleged clever saloon swinc}er
will pay $300 reward for bis return to El Paso, Mexiro.
He skipped away about the latter part of Novembcr
last, and is supposed to have gone toSan Diego. Gal.
He leaves a number of creditors to mourn his persed

Billy Porter.

This king of cracksmen was recently nabbed “ina
fashionable hotel in this. city, whereghe was stopping
but afew days, having lately arrived trom abroad,
where he has been doing France and Germany up. ip
bis artistic style. He is arrested this time on. the
Rharge of robbing a Troy jeweler ot sone $14,000 worth
of diamonds some two years ago. Billy is going ‘to
spend some of bis big boodle in his fight for liberty.

Frank Murtha.

No better choice could have been made by its own-
ers for the post of inanager of the new Windsor thea-
tre, than Frank Murtha, whose portrait is publistied
in this issue. He made the old theatre what it was—
the pioneer popular price house of America. . In every
enterprize which he bas touched hé has aehieved the
most distinguished success, and persanally no manjin
the business is equally popular. A. big future nes
before him, and he will not fail to occupy it.

J. Dempster. . 4
J. Dempster, the champion blindfold checker player.
who is giving exaibitions at the different cities and
towns throughout the country, playing from one up to
ten games blindfolded, was born at Watertown. N. iY.
He is a you nmarried man whu commenced play-
ing checkers when quite young, and his progress has
been steady and rapid. He bas played some ‘of the
best players witbout sight of the board or men wud
won. A prominent authority says thus of him: }
Mr. J. Dempster, the champion biind{fold player ot
the United States, bas-wsthin the past three months
contested 8 xames of checkers without sight of the
board, piaying five games at each sitting, winning 61
losing 6and 16‘games drawn. This is a remarkable
score, and never has been equaled ‘in this countr v
The following is the record of a at places visit a.

Piymouth, Pa.....Wov....4 Lost..

Drawn..,..0 gamics.

Lost. | Drawn.....1 gamle.

Providence, Pa..Won.....4 Lost....1 Drawn......0 games.
Paterson, N. J...Won...11 Lost....0 Drawn....4 games.

Port Jervis.N. Y.Woo.....8- Lost....1 Drawn.....1 game.
Sovr’gfield, Mass.Won....2 Lost.....0 beatae ganiecs.

Danbury, Conn..Won.....5 Lost.....0 Drawn..... 5 games.

MURDER AND. SUICIDE.

A Married Man Kills Himself and His Mistress in a
Disorderly House. “

[Subject ot Dlustration.]

” Charles A. Clowes, secretary of the Riverton Alcobol
Works, near Chicago, Ill... a wealthy and handsome
young married man, murdered Blanche Gray and
then shot himself dead in a house of il!-fame, at 44!
South Ciark street, Jan. 22. They bad been. out to-
gether all the afternoon, and returned in a.cab about 9
o’clock in the evening. Clowes wasa little intoxi-
cated. They went immediately to the girl’s rogm.
Two shots in quick succession startled the house about
1 o’clock in the morning. An employee of the nopse
was near the room, and rushed to the doer, but foynd
it locked. A policeman was sent tor. and, pares -his
shoulder to the door, he burst the Jock,

The most ot the women about the door “fed, white
the others were borror stricken at tbe sight which met
their eyes. The girl lzy peacefully on the bed with
her arms folded on her breast, as ifsleeping. Young
Clowes bad tallen on the side of the bed, with arms
outstretched, partly over hér dead body. His feet
were on the floor. There was a wound in his right
temple. The girl was shot direetly over the jef breast.
Clowes’ father died a year ago at Springfield, Jeaving
him a fortune of $100,000. He passed much of bis time
in Chicago, and spent his money freely. His motber
is now living at Hyde*Park, and with her is Clowes’
young wife, whom he married only ten montts ago.

The girl whom he shot had been an inmate of the
house where Che tragedy occurred for two years. She
was petite and very pretty. I[t was said at the house
| that she had been Clowes’ mistress for six years, and
that the direct cause of the shooting washer upbraid-
ing bim for bis marriage.

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

THIS WICKED WORLD.

A Few Samples of Man’s Duplicity and
Woman’s Worse than

Weakness.

Mrs. Mary A. Hansen, alias Mary A. Gibson, alias
Mary A. Klinek, has recently eclipsed even the nimble
Hungry Joe in her artful schemes to obtain wealth
under her clever confidence operations. Her last vic-
tims were Frederick Bohmert, Jersey City, and John
Mesan, of this city. They are both saloon Keepers,
and gave up some $3,300 to the queen ot confidence.

A Pretty State of Things.

Since the sensation caused a year ago when it be-
came Known that Mrs.. Grace D. Lane, of Youngs-
town, Ohio, had commenced suit for divorce from
Will R, Lane, the friends of each have been specula-
ting considerably as to whether it would be tried or
not, and many rumors have been in circulation as to
what would be developed in case it was aired in the
courts. On Jan. 20. to the surprise of some, at least, it
was reached in the regular order and both sides,
tbrough counsel, stated they were ready to proceed
with the trial. The plaintiff was represented hy
Messrs Sanderson and Norris, of that city, W. A. Bab-
cock, of Cleveland,
and Henry W. Hill,
of Buffalo, and the de-
fendant by Wood-
worth & Wirt and H.
H. Moses, of that city.
Mr. Norris opened the
case on behalf of the
plaintiff by reading
the depositions of a
number of residents of
California, most of
them residing in San
Francisco. Each was
personally acquainted
with Mrs. Lane before
her marriage, and
spoke of her as a
young lady of spotless
reputation, Whose con-
duct in all respects
was. irreproachable.
The plaintiff in the case was next called. She is a
handsome brunette with bair cut short, and was at-
tired in a neat suit of tricot, a veil covering the upper
portion of her face. Her evidence was in substance
as tollowss

“Tau the plaintiff, and was twenty-three years old
last August, aud was married to Lane at my home in
San Francisco. on May 8. 1883, went there trom Ver
hiont in 1880. Prior to that Ilivedin San Francisco.
My father is Sydney Joseph Loop, at Almeda, Cal.
My mother is now quite il]. She was here with me in
September, 1884, and afier my marriage came here; [
met Mr. Lanein December, 1882. at Judge Dwimell’s,
Whece he was calling; met him once a week for a
month, he calling at my house, that was the first I
knew ot bim; knew nothing ot his family . he said to
me that he was worth $40,000: that he worked at mak-
ing molds for the glass roofing company here and
made 83 per day; he referred my tather to Aubrey
Blocksom; a week after the wedding we came here;
I was educated in San Francisco and Montreal and
Burlington, Vermont; am now at the State Normal
School, in Oswego, N. Y. When J first came here I
Weut lo the residence of Lorenzo Lane, remained
there until August or September, in the meantime
keeping house in a portion of the residence ; moved

The fair plaintiff.

to the residence on Em street in May, 1884; the prop- |

erly was purchased by Mr. Lane fron: P. M. Dill and

He slaps her face.

title made to me, first difficulty I bad with defendant
was when be slapped my mouth two months after

ence of a servant, he threw a mirror at me that I bad
neglegted to hang up, or put where it belonged; at the
bomeon Elm street Mr. Lane was taken illin July,
1834: his illness was a severe one, he suffering consid-
erably: my mother came in September: while
ill my husband had Doctor Buechner” and
Doctor A. M. Clark; was ill two months; I waited
upon him until a purse was secured, Mr. Samuel
Gwynn; Lasked my husband 1n the presence of others
what was the matter with him; he said it was catarrh
of the bladder; while il) he threatened to shoot me,
pulling a revolver from under bis pillow, and said he
would kill me if {didn’t comply with his wishes; an-
other time he threw a glass at me, which shattered on
the floor; agsin be struck me in the back when I was
going down slairs: while sick his father came to see

He throws a glass at her head.

him during the day; Dr. Buechner sometimes came
r three times a day to see him; when we broke up
housekeeping I went to ,a sister of his stepmotber ;
when I returned, in two days, Mr. Lane was able to be
up. Wedid not speak avd I returned to Cleveland,
after I left was away @ week ; on returning found tur-
niture, silverware, disbes and some of my own things
taken away. My trunk had been oroken open. Ali
the bric-a-brac that I bad collected, # toilet case, seal-
skin cap and my engagement ring had been taken ;
last time [I was at the house he was not there and I
went to his father’s: I thenemployed W. A. Babcock,
an attorney of Cleveland, who was introduced. by Mr.
Sawdy. tocommence suit for me tor divorce; never
met him defore that time Mr. Sawdy was with me;
after that Mr. Babzock came here to sce me at my
home on Elm street, in reference to the suit; I signe!
the petition in the county clerk's office here; did not
live with Lane atter I filed tne petition; since May,
1885, I visited relatives until Ociober, when I began
going to school at Oswego.” Cross-examined by H.
H. Moses—“My husband was il] for two months
until the last of September or in October, Mr.
Gwynn came and sat up with him nights’ in
September and was with hima month. Each night I
took care of him until 11 P. M., and through the day;
sometimes he appeared delirious when company was
present; first went to Cleveland and siayed two days
after Thanksgiying in 1885: had some talk here with
Lorenzo Lane, and also with Mr. Babcock about a set-
tlement; when [ went toCleveland I locked the house
up, and when JI came back found the house broken
open and my goods taken, and I did not see Mr. Lane
at the house: while in Cleveland, at my request, Mr.
Babcock called on meand [informed him in reyzard
to my case; when I came back from Cleveland J tound
tbat sume one had disorded my house, and I went tw
the Tod House; next day I went to Lowellville and
spent Christmas witb Mrs. Sawdy; I don’t know
where the petition for divorce was drawn, whether in
Cleveland or bere; it was brought to me at my resi-
deuce on Elm street.by Mr. Bancock, to be signed.”’
Dr. A. M. Cook testified as to Lane’s sickness, after
which the deposition of Harriet Loop, wile of Sidney
Loop and Mother of Mrs. Grace D. Lane, was offered
by tbe plaintiff.

A Blackmailer Exposed.

A revolting story of the price set by a husband on
his wife’s honor, and his blackmailing attempts to
earn movey rom her after she had fallen, was re-
i vealed in the Cleveland, Ohio, police court, Jan. 18,
in connection with the trial of Minnie McCabe, who
was arrested early Sunday morning, having been
found on the street in company with a young man.
The officer gave her the alternative of being locked
up or going home with her husband, who was present.
Mrs. McCabe chose to go to the police station. When
| the case was called, Judge Hutchins postponed it until
McCabe could = he
brought in. When the
man stepped upon the
stand he was at once
accused of having sold
his wife’s virtue for
$700 to an ol? man
seventy years of age.
living on Euclid ave-
nue. The court also
taxed him witb hav-
ing entered into a
vritten contract to
permit this man to
live with Mrs. Me-
Cabe. A complete
denial was made by McCabe, but on close inter-
rogation he admitted that the man had paid him 8600.
Mrs. McCabe, who is a tall, well-developed woman,
told of ber husband's efforts at
ot the vicissitudes of their life. The pair were mar
ried some six vears azo. Within the past year
they went to Euclid avenue in answer to an ad-
vertisement tor a man and wife.
there,”
said: ‘This old man has lots of money, and we can
getitif youdo as Itell you” He then told me that he

Blackmal,

' morning, and after he had gone I must-eall the old

; man inlo my room, to be discovercd When he came
back. He got 3700 by this piece of brutality, and then
tarmed me out tuthe Old man for a regular stipend,

j * Sudge.’ satd the woman, ‘T aim tired of trios life,

blackmail, and |

and [ want to quit. He put mein a saloon here in

| Cleveland, and I am nearly broken down, The other
marriage. noone present; the next time in the pres- |

day he sold my horse and buggy, and has the money

| in his pockets now.”

The judze discharged the woman, and she demanded
the keys of l:er house from McCabe. The latter gave
them up,and tien stretching out his hands to her,
sald:

‘*My God, Minnie, you know I didn't do this.”

“Ob, don’t Minnie me,”’ said the woman, with a con-
temptuous snitl, as she paused at the door. “I’m
sick of it. You can make your money out of some
other woman hereafter.”

The irate wife vanished, and the exposed husband |

slowly followed.

No Show for Ellen.

Her face was dirty and her bonnet was crushed and
fer dress was mudéy and her hair was mussed, but
she was every bit of hera woman asshe stood witha
skating-rink smile firmly grasped with her mouth,
waiting to catch Justice Dufty’s eye inthe Jefterson
Market Police Court the other morning. It was such
a smile as unly @ Woman was capadle of, and {t must
have won her instant release if Justice Duffy bad
only looked. But, alack! be was reading a letter.
Her name was Ellen Callan. At least, she said it was.

The sinile remained with the patient rigidity main-
tained by the lines of the face of a pfemiere danseuse
assoluta when sbe bas climbed to the summit ot her
left big toe, and is
stahding on that and
nothing else while the
musical director fran-
tically waves his fiddle
bow and the ushers
applaud tumultuous-
ly. Elien could trust
the smile to wait on
the corner while she
went to see a woman.
Her head dropped
forward and she rested
her tired trame against
the railing.

Justice Duffy looked
up and Ellen started.
The smile was still at
its post. Hopefulness
flowed in the Jagunes
on her cheeks. Her
drooping eyelids flew

Her winning smile. up like the window
sashes when a carriage stops in Grove street, and
she looked at the policemau proudly. The time
tor her vindicution had come. But no. Justice Duffy
begaa talking to somebody else. The animation dicd
away, and Ellen became likeacircus clown in pri-
vate life.

Would her turn ever come? she seemed to ask her-
self. Yes, it would come,and tbis was the way it
came:

Justice Duffy —Officer, swear to tell the truth. Ellen
Callan. Drunk. Lying down in the strect. What
have you got tosay? You want to make a corpse of
yourselt' Freeze to death? The cold suap will be
over inten days. We will keep you till then. ‘Time,
154 seconds. > Ellen went into tbe prison, torgetting in
her discomtiture to take in her smile.

A Merchant Horsewhipped.

At Brownwood, ‘Texas, Jan. 22. a big sensation
was created when it became Kpuwn that one of the
most prominent and popular business men in Brown-
wood bad been horsewbipped by two very respecta-
ble young ladies. The merchant in question is very
popular with the ladies, notwithstanding he hasa
bandsome young wife. It seems that about dark
the other evening, while on his way home, he met
two pretty misses, aged respectively 16 and 18, and took
them to a restaurant, where « wine supper was served.
The girls did not reach home until near midmght,
when tbe elder sister of the youngest girl discovered

Served him right.

that she wasa little intoxicated On being pressed to

ain her condition, the 16-year-old girl gave the | .
explain h ; : , K ad | ana my opponent at 30, and use one hand only against

whole thing away,and ended with the startling infor-
mation that while en route home the merchant had
taken the most flagrant hberties with the other girl.
Older sister No. 2 was immediately apprised of the
ftact,and together they concluded toavenge the wrong.
At6o’clock in the morring they repaired to the mer-
chant’s residence, sent aservablto bis room totell him
a lady was walting to see him at the front gate. He
came smiling, when the largest sister threw her arms

| about his neck, gently beld him over the picket gate,

“After we got |
said Mrs. McCabe, “Owen came to me and |

would pretend to come back for his gloves, some |

while sister No.2 walloped him with a stout black-
snake whip. Tiring with the whip, the girls changed
places, and the other one laid iton awhile. The man
was 80 feartully beaten that he isina very precarious
condition,

eee -
HORSPORTYS ACID PHOSPHATE.
BEWARE CF IMITATIONS.

Imitations aud counterfeits bave again appeared. |
Be sure that the word “Horsrorp's” is on the wrap
per None are genuine without at

SPORTING NEWS.

We have received $25 with challenge, aw
follows: “I, Samuel Taylor, of Pnilipsburg, Pa., do
herein challenge to wrestle Mat. Acton, of Philadel-
phia, at catch weight. catch as catch can, Lancashire
style—best two back falls out of three for $250, or $500,
aside. To prove I mean business, I have deposited
$25 with Ricbard K. Fox of tne Pott EGazeTTE. LI
will pay half of Mat. Acton's expenses to wrestle in
Philipsburg, and if he is willing to make the mateh
please to cover said deposit, then I shall send articleg
of agreement for his signature. Hopiug Mr. Acton
will sbow his metal and make the match,

Yours respectfully, SAMUEL TAYLOR,
Philipsburz, Centre Co., Pa.

John Ashton, of Providence, R.I., Billy
Madden’s champion and the “coming man,” met
John Carroll, of Brooklyn, in a hard glove fight, 6
rounds, “Police Gazette’* rules, at Keystone Rink,
Wilkesbarre, Pa., Saturday evening, Jan. 23. Over
1,000 paid admission to the contest. C. H. Smitb acted
as referee, and Mike Meehan, member of the City
Council, was timekeeper. Ashton was seconded by
Billy Madden, and Carroll by Mike Mooney, of Wil-
hamsburgh. The first round opened with cautious
sparring, Carroll on the get away and dodging tactics.
Ashton, leading with the left, landed onthe cbest,
which brought about half-arm exchanges, Carroll
gettingaway. Ashton furcing tbe tighting, several good
blows were exchanged. The second and third rounds
were a repetition of the first. In the fourth and
fifth rounds there was some territic _ hitting,
Ashton landing with his left in the stomach
three or four times, nearly doubling Carroll up.
Ashton forcing the tighting. and it he foilowed up his
advantage, would have Knocked Carroll out. He
landed one terrific cross counter on Carroll's left side
of head that Knocked him very shaky on his pins
The sixth and last round was fierce. Ashton landed
his left on Carroll’s mouth, drawing blood. Carroll
used both hands with good effect in this round and
fought for all he was worth ana got some good hits on
Ashton, who took no. notice, but rushed Carroll and
fought him on the ropes, and would have undoubtedly
finished him only time was called to preventgolice
interference, and the fight awarded Ashton, The re-
spective weights were Ashton 180, Carroll 165.

Jack Burke, the Irish lad, arrivéd here
Saturday last. accompanied by Thos. J. Ryan, of the
Theater Comique, Phila., Pa. Burke, who has im-
proved wonderfully in appearance, expressed himself
as well satisfied with his Western trip, which netted
him many dollars—and the glory of baving done the
great Mike Cleary, whose good right band put to sleep
Wm. Sheriff, he Prussian, twice—and caused many
other aspiring pugilists to hunt cover when Mike's
name was mentioned in acceptance of some of their
many challenges. In reference to the challenge of
Jim Smith, the English champion, Burke, when ques-
tioned by Mr. Richard K. Fox, replied:. *‘ There is po
need for Smith to wait tor Sullivan, as fam ready to
meet bim or any living man, bar Sullivan, to fight six
or eight rounds or toa finish, for $5,000 to $10,000. I
mean nothing but business, and immediately on re-
ceipt of notice that au acceptance from Smith, or
any one else, has reached this office, I will posta
forfeit.’ Burkeis rather warm over Mitchell, whom he
says be will fight, with or without gloves, at any time
or place and for any amount. These terms he ex-
tends to any man living, bar Sullivan,and says the
mun that whips bim can break: Chicago. At present
he has two (2) contests on hand—one with an English
collier named McFarlane, who the Pittsburgers
think a wonder, and will take place at the skating
rink, Pittsburg, Jan. 30; the second, for March 8th, at
Chicago, when he fights Frank Lover, the heavy
weight champion of Illinois, with hard gloves, eight
rounds, for entire receipts.

Tre following explains itself:
Td the Sporting Editor :

DEAR S1irR—Capt. Bogardus’ characteristic cham-
piouship letter, in your issue of the 16th; wherein
he sets forth his mighty deeds in England and else-
where, 1s certainly a most awe-inspiring epistle : pot
the least inconsistent part of it appears to me his in-
viting me to go to Chicago to shoot a mateh for $250;
surely the gallant captain sbould kouow that it would
cost me fully that amount to journey from here to
Chicago, and in fairness I ask, as I have already come
4,000 miles to visit his country, New York should
be considered a just neutral pcint for me to meet bim.
The next inconsistency he commits when he asserts
as follows: “As Mr. Graham bas come here to shoot
for the ‘championsbip.’” Now, upon this head I
would remind Capt. Bogurdus that he it was, aud he
only, who first introduced the word “championship”
Into the business, in bis first challenge to me ptblish-
ed in your issue ofa fortnight ago. I have beld the
chan pionsbip of England as a wing shot for the last
four years, by having beaten all comers, and so far as
titles goT really do not seek further honors in this
direction, and [T was quite unaware Capt. Bogardus
beld the champiouship of Ameriea, much less the
world, as, if my memory serves me rightly, the last
contest that took place in this country, a
short time ‘ago, between Captain Bogardus
and Dr. Carver, the latter, v. e., Carver, defeated him,
and if Tam not much mistaken I read of that mateh
as being shot for the so-called chamnpiouship of tbe
world. What badge or emolem ot any kind 1s there to
denote this, to me, mythical title so far as concerns
wing shooting? Now,sir, allow me to apologize tor
occupying so much of your valuable space, and once
more state whatI am prepared to do, ¥1z.- To shoot
any man in the world at 100 pigeons each, 30 yards
rise, under Hurtinghamrules. 2d. To stand at 2 yards,

his two, atthe same number of birds, under the same
rules, eitber or both above matches for 3500 a side. But

| as a special inducement to Captain Bogardus, I will

offer him a third match, viz.: Each toshoot at 100 pig-
cons off the 28 yard mark, and I will use one hand
against his two, if he will stake $500 to mv $250, in this
match, Any of these matches to take place withintwo
months, ane can be insured by covering iny deposit at
POLICE GAZETTE, New York. [ou conclusion I must
beg to draw attention to the fact that the Hurlingham
rules, under which [ offer to shoot, are those which [
have found in force in all the leading American gun
‘clubs, with whom I have had the privilege of invita-
tions toshoot during my present snoctstay bere, They
are therefore rather in favor of my opponents thap
myself. Alf wantis some fuir sporting inatches for
some mormey, and [trast such will be the outcome of

| my visit. I am, dear sir, yours taitbfully,

W. GRAHAM,
Chaimppion wing sbot of Englaud,

wr eid nc: «a vanaewrsig DS

NR me

Ppa eete ew eee TT

— ees

ee a

SSS SSS

ene

A THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

FRANK MURTHA,

THE POPULAR AND SUOCESSFUL MANAGER OF THE NEW WINDSOR THEATRE, NEW YORK,

Biity Porrer,

THE ELEGANT KIN@ OF CRACKSMEN NABBED
RECENTLY IN THIS CITY FOR AN OLD JOB,

“Professor ’’ A. A. Denton.

This very popular spiritual adviser is the au-
thor of some six books and several other clever
things. His admission to -the order of cranks
recently wasthe occasion of considerable splen-
dor. The feast was fit for the gods. The profes-
sor is already too well known in this city among
his genial brothers to say anything further.

Sheeny Mike.

This slick burglar has been arrested at Jack-

SHEENEY MIKE,

ALIAS MICHAEL KURTZ. ARRESTED FOR COMPII-
CITY WITH BILLY PORTER IN THE TROY STEAL,

sonville, Fla., for complicity with cracksman
Billy Porter in robbery of Marks & Louis’ jew-
elry store at Troy, N. Y. Michael Kurtz, as he
is known among the respectable people of the
South had commenced business in the tobacco
trade with his brothers at Jacksonville.

A MAN in New York has had a piece of his
liver removed and is now doing well. In fact,
if surgical science co ‘d devise a safe method
of eliminating the entire live: from the human
system there would be more hopeful prospects
of the evangelization of the race.

CaaRgtes A. VINCENT,

AN ALLEGED CLEVER SALOON SWINDLER WHO
I8 WANTED AT El. PASO, MEXICO.

**Prorrssor” A A DENTON,

A VERY WELL-KNOWN CHARACTER AMONG DOWN-
TOWN MERCHANTS, NEW YORK CITY.

LESLIE CHESTER,
THE BEAUTIFUL ENGLISH AMATEUR ACTRESS NOW PLAYING WITH ROSINA VOKES.

Aa i

iit

cite, <a

KILLED BY THEIR CHINESE COOK.
THE WICKERSHAMS OF CLOVERDALE, COL, PAY A FEARFUL PRICE FOR

int 24
| oly

BUT HE WON'T FIGHT.
TIFFT MILLER, A YOUNG DUDE, HAS HIS CHOPS SLAPPED BY FRED MAY IN A RESTAURANT.

THE NATIONAL POLICE Cesat oee NEW YORK.

; HIN

“4 Ria

Sp \y HIN NS

ALD ons \ a

ij rn |

NOT ON THE BILLS. A GLASS TOO —

HOW A SENSITIVE DUDE MADE AN ASS OF HIMSELF IN THE PaRQUETTE OF A PHILADELPHIA HOW A BROOKLYN DETECTIVE PUT A STOP TO THE ASTRONOMICAL RESEARCHES OF YOUNG,
MBE. WILLIAMSON,

i) li

a nl in

SENSELESS CRUELTY. A FREE SHOW.

THE EDICT OF A CRANEY PEDAGOGUE GAUSFS CNNECESSABY SUFFERING TO TWO BOYS AT THE BODY OF EPPS, A VICTIM OF JUDGE LYNCH, IS LEFT HANGING JN PUBLIC VIEW AT
NANTICOKE, PA, VINCENNES, IND

sinc so

phaery ern ie

Sarre iF Fe

powee ens

Se a =

aa A

a aR TNS
Sees ATS a

SaaS es

6 THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW
= ncaa er LE ATE SEIN nated titel ——— MRI EL MEARS ; AFR LETIOTS = fanz ho ; ae

ee ce neta cee ee ae

“HOUR LAL

The Frenchiest French Ball
Fully and Faithfully De-
scribed and Illustrated.

HOW NEW YORK BLOWS OFF STEAM.

HE last French ball of
tbe Cirele- ot- Harnony-
French was Frenchier in
its Frenchnness than all
the other French balls
ever given in New York,
even in the matter of
Frenchmen who attended
it. Frenchmen from
Paris, Frenchmen from
Boston, Frenchmen from
Philadelphia, Frenchmen
from the Boulevard Pois-
soniere and Frenchmen
from La Rue ce Wooster.
Frenchmen trom Lyons,
Frenchmen trom Jersey
French city, Frenchmen from

New Orleans and French-
men from Sixth averue, danced and drank and flirted
together by dozens and dozens.

But no Frenchman looked more like a real French-
man of noble origin than Police Commissioner
French.
~ The Circle-of-Harmony-French is a club, and the
whole club was there in force. There was also a full
torce, with other clubs, including that most powerful
and indulgent of floor managers, Captain Clinchy.
Attended by sixty or seventy able-bodied assistants in
blue costume, duttoned up with gold, he found it quite
easy to tone down the exuberant spirits of the four or
five thousand reckless and riotous voung people who
blow off their moral steam once a year in compliment
to the genius of French philantrophy and diversion
usually handed round on such occasions in quart bot-
tles by servitors of a gloomy German aspect.

It was a great ball—as gentlemen gook occasion to
remark to one another over and over again, witb in-
creasing thickness of speech and indistinctness of ar-
ticulation as the night wore on—a very great ball, in-
deed.

If variety is an element ot the picturesque then,
assuredly, it was a ball which would have pleased a

A harmonious
woman.

Run in.

painter. For, in the tirst place, the costumes of the
women, though not displaying any great research or
distribution, being chiefly of the “page” species. ex-
hibiting forms and legs, were of every possible hue of
the rainbow. There were pages in blue and pages in
green, there were pages in silver (tissue and tinsel)
and pages in gold (ditto), pages in red and pages in
every other color, a whole volume of pages, in fact, ,
and these variegated hues contrasted strongly in their
ever changing Juxta-position with each other and with
the sombre black dominves which were to be found
here and there, as well as with the general mass ot
black-coated. and black -vested, and black-panted, and
black -booted, and black-bearded male humanity.

Here promenaded arm-in-arm a big woman gorge-
ously attired asa page in blue and gold witha little
Plece ot a fellow in a decidedly careless, not to say
shabby, outfit; though really tbat term is scarcely ap-
propriate, as his clothes did not #2 bhim--in fact, they
looked as if they had been made for somebody else,
and the wearer fur that matter looked very much as if
he might have stolen them from that very somebody
else for whom they were originally mtended.

Not far from this couple strutted two women—pages
also, both blondes by nature, and rendered still more
blonde by art and chalk, witb immense shoulders and
huge necks, fully displayed, and four of the largest
limbs and pedal extremities ever shown to an admir-
ing and astonished world.
A little beyond these
heavy weights moved
slowly and tenderly along
a little woman with a
well-developed limb, but
attenuated bust, arrayed
in the “‘jauntiest” possible
style of costume, in laven-

| white and blue, and a black domino, and then amis were, the comic element

cellaneous assortment of all soris of hued pages mov- | was, after all, the chiet
ing to and fro, on a back ground of black coats and. feature of the evening.
black guards; while the changing. coloring and group- | Women and men were
ing of the scene fulfilled all the conditions of the pict- | disposed to take matters

uresque.

It is ata French ball in general and at the ball of
the Circle-ot-Harmony-French that one sees the | intended no offense was
*“‘dude” in all his native splendor, and is forced by the | taken—occasionally, even
spectacle to marvel for the hundredth time “what
kind of an abject his Creator might bave had in map- | rough and unwarrantable,

ufacturing such a curious specimen of bumanity.”

The typical ‘‘dude” got to the Academy of Music , Vailed, and what tn the
very early in order to geta full five dollars’ worth of | street or on some other
fun for the price of his ticket. His dear little bang

was verefully draped over his dear little forehead, and

be wore an unchanging expression of surprise at bis | sented

own audacity in

attempting anything so “real! was ut the ball undergone
naughty” and possibly dangerous. His necktie was of |

easily andjgood-naturedly,
and where no insult was

when the provocation was
the mirthful spirit’ pre-
occasion might, and prob-

ably would, have been re-
as an indignity,

The festive copper.

as a mere matter of course and suftered to pass unre-

dainty satin and his shirt front a ufass of wonderful buked.

pleats, A crush hat was tucked under his arm and a

So modest!

hemstitch pockethandkKerchief protruded from the
inside of his pretty little pigne waistcoat.

He teetered timidly around the lobbies, but couldn’t
muster up sufficient courage to venture on the floor
until the ball was nearly over. Of committeemen and
other officials he stood in great awe, showing them the
most extravagant respect.

If by chance a pretty girl looked at him he smiled
feebly, but if the pretty girl’s fellow followed her
glance with a cold and curicus stare—then you could
hear the knees of the poor little chappie knuck to-
gether and see a cold chill run down his back.

In the course of time repeated draughts of seltzer
and milk peggei up his courage, and he became con-
versational. It was at this stage that ascore of bim
got chatting difidently with the colored maids who
came with ladies of the half world, and who sat round
the balcony like a flock of crows perched on the
fence of acorn lot.

One *“‘dude,” more desperate than his fellows, actu-
ally induced a Nubian damsel to become his partner
ina waltz. The prompt interference of au indignant
committeeman, however, soon put a kKibosh on their
act of terpsichorean amalgamation, and the poor
“dude,” in the proverbial period Known as a pig’s
whisper, found himself on the sidewalk explaining
things to an inquisitive and unsympathetic horde of
hackmen.

There was one yvoung man there who wasn't a dude.
He looked like a divinity student, and he wore a black
frock-coat and black trowsers. His appearance was
that of an entered apprentice in the ancient cratt of
underraking. He'was quite alone, was distinguished by
an expression of the profoundest gloom and carried
his wask in bis hand with as much solemnity as if he
were attending a funeral in a strictly professional ca-
pacity. He didn’t dance, he didn’t talk, be didn’t go
to supper—but from 11 P. M.to 5 A. M., six mortal
bours. he marched round and round the floor as if he
were walking for a mammoth cake. The longer he
walked the more solemn he grew—what was not gito-
gether to be wondered at, seeing that every other
minute he got in the way of somebody else and was
heartily cursed for doing it. Quadrilles fairly er-
gvlfed him; waltzers whirled him into corners; fran-
tic couples polka-ed and mazurk-ed all over him: in
the can-can he was completely lost iew in a forest

of legs. Yet when the lull came and the scene cleared,
he remained still stalking on his melancboly round,
and still inducing eve1. ‘ody to wonder what the
dickens he might beup to.

Picturesquely diversified as the many costumes

der tights and a jacket as
many-colored as Joseph's |
coat, only more so, es- |
corted by a well-known

rounder. Then came a

woman with a mustache

and a wig anda beard and |
a boy’s suit of clothes and

a cane, looking as fierce

as she could, which was |
very mild indeed, and chaffirg with an “elderly
woman in black,” who was really aman: then passed
on several ambulating and female rainbows, gotten up
regardless of expenseyfor this occasion only, really
pretty girls, but leaning on the arms of some of the
most vaeant looking and attenuated “slims”’ who
Were ever knocked down with a featber; then ful-
Jowed a dwarfand a Fifteenth Amendment of the fe-
wale gender, and La Folie, and Columbia ip red,

Back again.

It must be confessed that the wit displayed during
the evecing was by no means of an exalted charactex ;
that most of the puns wére chestnuts uld enough to
have been rejected by a minstrel troupe, and that the
repartee of the occasion was hardly equal totbat in-
dulged in bya Sberidan, a Sidnev Smith, or a Tom
Hood. The merriment was mainly of the screecb-
owl order.

A man would meet a man and yell at bim at the full
power of bis Jungs; or call to liim across the ball-room:
or carse bim playfully; or bestow upob him some ec-
centric nicKnamne, or Kindly ask after his grandmoth-
er’s health, or his mother-in-law’s, or his wife’s or
some other person in whom he had not the slightest
possible interest; or e!se a man would meet some
woman (it really did not make the slightest difference
whetber be knew her or not) and salute her by some
endearing @pitbet, or put his arm lovingly around her
waist, or pat her on her bangs, or playfully allude to
her “tights,” or protest that be loved ber, and prove it
by kissing her then and there, taking his chances of
getting his ears well boxed, or his hair pulled, to the
great delight of the bystanders, male and female.
Then, again, some woman, taking advantage of her
masque, would accost some male individual and ask
him ‘if bis mother was aware that he was out,’ or
“did his meerschaum color,’ or “was he on” or “did
be rolJ,” vr other similar questiors of iutense public
interest; or sbe would flirt with bim, and, as the cant
term is, “get him on a string,” excite his curiosity
about her, and then retuse to gratify it, or throw a
glass of wine over him, or poke him playfully in his
manly ribs.

Or men would climb over each other’s shoulders, or
try totrip each other on the floor, bit each other on
the heag—or hat—producing very little effect on the
former, but woefully damaging the latter; or they
would utier a yell like Comanche Indians and then
perform a war-dance of the most extravagant and
gymnastic description; or—but really time and space
would tail us did we even attempt to do anything like

In search of informacion.

full justice to tbe various species into which the “fun’®
of the evening and the ball was divisible.
The new detective camera with which the artists of
our staff are armed nowadays was used to great ad-
vantage. ‘The tat and ancient*‘Madame” ofa honse ot
joy in Twenty-seventh street, so modest and diffident
tor all the liberal exposure which she made of ber
“charms” (let them be called “‘charms” anybow) that
she couldn’t move around without being followed by
her colored wench, was there in fine feather and very
numerously.. There were. in fact, a baker's dozen of
her, and we've got a good plump specimen on the hst.
There was a pious old party on hand as well, who

*Tzipg! Jat ia... apa pou”

YORK.

came to “watch” things for Dr. Howard Crosby's so-
ciety. It was hs intention to “plumb the abyss to its
lowest depths,’ he said, when somebody asked bim

) what be wasin search of at a masquerade ball.

Like all plumbers, be struck it rich before daybre:k
—as the camera shows oniy too plainly.

The aimless young man who wore a military uni
form that didn’t fit bim and felt conscious, in conse-
quence, of being the bandsomest man on the floor—he
was tnere and the camera got him likewise.

Little did the festive “copper’’ who did a private
and unobtrusive can-can act of his own in the wings—
litle did he reck of the retributive lens that was fo-
cussed upon him when he achieved his biggest leap
But it was there, all the time, festive “copper,” and
don’t you forget it, either.

The girl who cried so bitterly when she was arrest-
ed for high kicking that the compassionate officer
slylv let her go. and who went night back to the floor
and kicked higher than ever she did before—haven’t
we got her also,and are not her two portraits to be
found in this faithful cnronicle ?

The young “swell’’—who may be found every day
between 7 A. M. and9 P.M. putting up packages of
tea and sugar and coffee at Park & Tilfurd’s—he was
there in all the superabundant glory of a hired dress
suit of the time of George the Fourth—a very gorgeous
young swell indeed for all the over-muchness of his

One of the mysteries.

coat and the insufficiency of his trouser-legs. He was
there—and click! be became immortal on a plate as
dry as the average dafcer at that more than average
hall.

Among the painful features of the ball was the
conspicuous misbebavior and degradation of some of
the greatest characters in historv—men and women
whom generations have been taught to respect, and
who certainly were quite old enough to know a good
deal better.

For instance: take the case of Julius Czesar. Julius
was there, in full Roman costume—helmet, tunic, toga
and sandals. In the early part of the evening bh2 con-
dutted bimself with all propriety and nobody could
say aword against him. But toward the bour when
milkmen yawn, bow changed and uproarious grew
his behavior! To be frank—Ju!ius got as full as a
tick. banged his helmet on the back of his head, and,
doffing all his dignity, got into such an animated but
incoherent difficulty with a policeman that he had to
be Jed out of the building by his fine Roman ear.

Then there was George Wasbington, who drank so
much wine that he not only lost his wig but his bal-
ance also. and made a feartul exbibition of himself.
Not to mince matters the Father of His Country
carried the biggest load ot the lot and fell Gown stairs
with such a crash that it would have been the death of
him ifa fat little French Harmonist had not consid.
erately made a mattress of himself and taken a pre-
liminary tumble just exactly where G. W. finally
alighted.

Marie Antoinette—wouldn’t everybody suppose that
ever since that little atlair of the guillotine Marie
would be pretty careful to keep her head. Nota bit of ©
it. The highest kicker on the floor was that madcap
Queen of the French In faith she kicked so high and
screeched so loud as she kicked that Capt. Clinchy had
to grab hold of her royal nibs and give her notice of a
briet residence in his own private Bastile in Twenty-
second street it she didn’t let up on ber caperings.

And so with all tbe rest.

It is one of the most striking peculiarities of the
French ball that the men who manage it treat the
men who represent newspapers with at least as much
consideration as they do everybody else. When the
shop-begotten snobs of the “Charity” caper at the
Metropolitan Opera House, or the teather-bed war-

riors of the “Uld Guard’ exercise their incorporated

| corpujence on toes that are anything but light or
| fantastic, no discomtort

and no insolence 1s spared
the unlucky wight who
has to do either ball for a
newspaper.

But they manage these
things better, not only in
France, but. as well, in
thatjovial French colony
which wisely — selected
Brother Hamuiton to pro-
mote a special brand of
journalistic barmony in
one ot the cellars of Irv-
ing Hall The right man
in the right place, with a
gift cf making new and
strong friendships and the
still rarer facultv of com-
pelling ancient foes to
drop their enmity and shake hands, he admirably
ty pified the genial spirit of the evening.

It wes aa great ball, and the sooner the cranks and

A hired suit.

| fanatics realize that a hig city is all the better and all

the jollier for occasionally “blowing off” its surplus
‘“‘devilment” at such a safety valve, the nearer we
shall be totbe millenium, and the easier will it be to
answer the momentous question—"Is Life worth
Living ?”

The llells of New York.

A Vivid and Exciting Story,
Founded on Facts, of the Perils
and Pitfalls of the Great
Metropolis.

CHAPTER VIII.
A WAY STATION ON THE DOWN GRADE.

It would have been a pretty subject for a draughts-
man, and a still better tableau fur the stage.

Daisy Coleman, the tall, stately, bright-eyed actress,
with yer flushed face and her blazing cyes: Georgie,
much prettier, but Jacking in style and dignity, hang-
ing in unaffected terror on her arm: the meap and
despicable figure of Nichols, turious with disappoint-
ment ‘and rage, cowering under the scorn of the
womens ; jn the background, the burly Spanish lover
of the actress—genuine amazement written on his
stolid face, and, still further in the distance, the gaping
crowd of waiters and servants.

*“*What business is it of yours 9?" snarled the junior
partner, quickly recovering his audacity.

“I won’t allow this girl to be imposed upon!” was
the reply. made as picturesquely and with as much
tire as ifit were part of a play upon the stage.

Nichols smiled bitterly.

“Bah! You're a better actress in privatethan you
are in public. The idea of your undertaking the role
of Defender of Outraged Virtue! It’s enough to make
one sick.” and with rare eftrontery he lita cigar and
mastered the situation by turning his back upon it.

There was a moment’s silence and suspense. Everv-
body telt that something extremely effective and dra-
matic évght to follow.

But the diabolic coolness and assurance ot Nichols
madesuch a sequel im possibie.

Trué that Miss Coleman hissed “Brute!” between
her teetb, and that the burly Spaniard looked as if he
thought the moment had arrived for him to assert
himself in some way cr another.

But'what was there to do ? i

Clearly nothing, when the printipal actor in the
scene‘had walked out of it, as it were, and was vigor-
ously pulfing’a cigdr as he looked out of the window,
after touching the eleciric bell.

“My bill, Francis!” was the next command. given in
a calm, matter-of-fact tone, ‘‘and tel] the stableman to
have f! @ horses at the door.”

“Come with me, child!" exclaimed Miss Coleman,
with @ beautifu) imitation, according to theatric tra-
ditions, ofa proud and lofty contempt. “Come with
meand leave this cowardly wretch to himself.”

““I was just going to observe,’’ sneered Nichols, as he
drew on his gloves, “that as a result of your dramatic
rescue of Endangered Tnnocence, you will excuse me
if I shift to your shoulders the responsibility of look
ing after your dear good young friend. Take her
home with you. She'll be an apt scholar,and what
she doesn’t kuow at present, she'll have every chance
ot learning under your auspices.”

And, laughing with genuine scorn, the junior part-
ner brushed past them and was down in the hall be-
fore Miss Coleman could so much as get up a pose
significant of spurning and loathing him.

When Georgie followed her newly acquired triend
into her own room, she bad almost recovered suffi-
ciently from the scene which bad justtaken place, to
realize her circumstances. Had she ever read Csesar’s
commentaries she would have felt that she had
crossed the Rubicon so far as her connection with her
present employers was coucerned. As it was she was
quite conscious of the fact that another crisis bad ar-
rived ia her affairs, and that she had to quickly de-
cide upon a course of action.

**Here, dear, sit down and tell me all about it,” said
the actress, kindly, for with all her faults sbe was
generous to the degree of recklessness.

Georgie looked rather duubttully at the Spaniard.

Miss Coleman saw the look and 1t must bave amused
her for she burst out fo a hearty laugh.

“Bless your dear, innocent little heart,” she cried,
“*You surely don’t mind him, do you ?”

Georgie contessed that she didn’t quite know.

“Why. he’s no more account than my colley-dog,”
chirped the actress. “I never have the slightest hesi-
tation to say anything or do anything before him or
anybody like him.- So go on and tell me your story.”

The Spanigrd rolled bimself a cigarette and looked
on with a blank and stolid smile, while Georgie re-
counted as much of her history asshe felt like confid-
ing to an utier stranger of her own sex, no matter the
fact thaf in a sentimental sense she was that
stranger's debtor.

“Howinteresting,” quoth the fair Daisy, herself
smoking a cigarette, when Georgie finished. “What
do youfintend to do now?”

“Pmisure I haven't the faintest idea,” replied
Georgie, with great truth—for she had 2ot.

“However, you needn’t let that worry you,” her

pew found friend went op. “You can come and stay

with me forawhbile and we’ll soon tind something for
you to do. It’s quite lucky for me, anybow, tbat I’ve
run across you. I had toget rid of my maid yester-
day tor the fourth time. She’s been wearing my
dresses and gloves and things in the most impudent
manner. Of course you’re fit for something a good
deal better than tha/, but if you care to accept the
position temporarily until something better turns up,
you’re welcome to it”’ .

George was profuse in her professions of gratitude
and delight.

“Naturally, I shan’t treat you exactly like a maid,”
continued the actress. “You'll be more like a com-
panion, you know.”

Georgie again assured ber that underthe circum-
stances nothing could be more to her taste.

“What sort of a hand do you write?” asked Miss
Coleman by-and-by.

Georgie showed her.

“Capital'’ exclaimed the other. “You can attend
to my correspordence. I do so hate writing letters,
and even the reading of them has becomea frghttul
bore.”

Thus came it about that the next’morning our ad-
venturous heroine found herself presiding in a new
capacity. over the household ofthe leading lady of the
Broadway National theatre.

Miss Coleman lived in an elegant apartment on
Madison avenue, consisting of ten large and richly
furnished rooms. The floor underneath was occupied

THE

| by a bank president, that above by a prominent law-

yer and bis family. The halls were richly carpeted
and an attendant in livery opened the door.

In Miss Coleman’s suite of rooms reigned the hixyry
and the disorder of a Kussian household. Every chair
was equally used and the handsome bed-chamber was
as much sat ip as the parlor itself. Magniticent cos-
tumes, knick-Knacks of great value, exquisite works
of art, costly rugs fuirly littered the place.

The china, the glass and the plate were worthy of a
prince's table, so far as their original quality was con-
cerned, but reckless use had sadly marred and disfig-
ured everything.

- Photographs abounded—principally portraits of Miss
Daisy herself. They represented ber in every con-
ceivable attitude and costume. Some of them, in fact,
left the latter largely tu the indulgent imagination ot
the beholder. Daisy Coleman as Juliet simpered along-
side of Daisy Coleman furiously !uwpersonating Pau-
line Deschappelles. Daisy Coleman, ghastly and
bectic as Camilie, hung alongside Daisy Coleman
plump and unabasbed as Cupid in burlesque. There
was even a photograph, full Jength and rarely well
finished, of Daisy Coleman in the very abbreviated
costume of a batber.

Like our worshipful motber Eve, she was naked
and not ashamed.

The other portraits were those of men, and most of
them had some maudlin amatory sentiment inscribed
on the back.

-To judge from this collection, the fair artiste’s ad-
mirers were a very Motley and variegated lot. Thin
dudes with button beads were shuffled in the pack
witb fat Jew brokers and scowling foreigners. A few
lean and pinched faces of actors eKed out the queer
assemblage of countenan-es.

The domestic service of the flat was Attended to by a
coupte of colored women—one officiating as cook, the
other as chambermaid and waitress.

Before retiring on the previous; night Miss Coleman
sketched out the scheme of Georgie’s employment and
the rest ot-her duties. She was to look after the ward-
robe of the actress, attend her to and from the tbeatre
(when other escort did not provide itself) and help

_ber change her costumes. All this was to begir the

tollowing week, for at present Miss Coleman was not
on the bills. Georgie was aiso to take her meals with
the frank and fascinating Daisy (again only when no-
body else made his appearance), and avery nice and
elegantly furnished room was assigned to her.

Of course the first thing which our heroine did was
to have her baggage transferred to her present ad-
dress without letting poor Fannie know any of thecir-
cumstances of ber change of residence, for she telt
that henceforward it would be more to her advantage
to “go it alone” as the phrase runs.

She had plenty of time to do this,as Miss Coleman
never rose until noon, having insured a good night’s
rest by plentiful potations of brandy-and--oda, ac-
centuated witb cigarettes of ‘Turkish tobacco steeped
in opium.

When she rose, in the unamiable frame of mind,
which Georgie soon diseovered to be her principal
charactepistic, every morning, sbe drank a small cup
of coftee,.eat a bit of toast, and then demanded a bath.
At this hour a fat and shining colored woman arrived
torub her down and pinch and Knead hber,sc as to
stimulate her circulation—every fashionable act ress in
New York, just asin Paris, employing a professional

When this operation bad been completed and her
plump form thoroughly anointed with cream-of-lotos,
Miss Daisy slipped arichly embroidered chemise over
her white shoulders, covered that garment with a
purple silk Japanese dressing-gown, heavily wadded,
and, witb her Skye terrier under her arm, sat down to
a dainty breakfast, which ended witb a smart drink of
the seductive stimulant known asa pousse-cafe, the
compositjon of which sbe caretully explained to the
wondering Georgie. .

Directly after breakfast she dressed herself with
great care and Georgie’s assistance in a very expen-
sive and magnificent walking costume.

“Before the coupe comes,” she said,in a tone of
Janguid self-indulgence. “we had better iry and get
through some correspondence.”’

Georgie opened her letters for her and, to her amaze-
ment, was requested to readthem aloud. They were
as misce]Janeous as the photographs. Some were from
love-sick young men, utter strangers. Others were
from love.sick young men who were apparently on a
footing of great familiarity witb her. Some were
written on club note paper,:n hands shaky, either
with dissipation or age. Others, again, were miracles
of spelling and composition. They related to all sorts
ot subjects—chiefly to engagements for dining and
driving. In some instances they alluded to dresses
and diamonds. is

“You may as well begin,’ said the actress, ‘to keep
a regular book of enzagements for me—so that I can
see at a glimpse what I’ve gut to do every day in the
future.”

Then she proceeded to dictate various notes. One
was to accevt an invitation to the French ball.
Another declined a request fora photograph. A third
complained delicately of the quality of sume wine one
ot her admirers bad sent her. Three letters, addressed
to three elderly and well-known gentlemen of stand-
ing in the financial world, said, in so many words,
that she really needed $500. and would be very grateful
for any immediate assistance that could be rendered
her.

“Send those by messenger,” she said, “and mind that
the boy waits for an answer”

Georgie, who had heard of one of these gentlemen as
@ pillar of the Presbyterian Church and a highly
moral, not to say austere, person, was disposed to mar-
velatthe influence which made him a likely tribu-
tary to ber new mistress. :

“Ah! there’sthe carriage,” exclaimed Miss Daisy,
slipping two solitaires of fabulous size and value into
her ears.

It was a verv elegant coupe, drawn by a pair of
splendid roans and driven by acoachman in livery.
The crest of the actress (by a singular coincidence, to
put it mildly) was that of the Duke ot Westminster,
and was vividly embluzoued on each door and on the
harness, wherever it was possinje to put it.

“You stay at home,” said the gracious Daisy, as she
put her dainty head out of the carriage window, “and
tell anybody who calls tbat I'll be bome at 50’clock.”

Tbus was Georgie left to herself to ponder over the
strange events of the past twenty-four hours.

Next week the continvation of this chapter will graph-
ical y expose the inmost depths of life behind the scenes.

Any person unable to buy this paper from their newsdealer can
have it forwarded from this office at the rate 0/$1.00 for three
monthe.

NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: N

~ ar ee ee

EW YORK, aa

THE BASEBALL WAR,

A Threatening Danger to the Business--Necessity
for Future Peace.

Tt is rather a singular fact that all the row and cun-
fusion in the American Association sbould have heen
caused by the wen who control the Brooklyn Club,
Thev began it during last season,and made covert
offers to David Orr and James Roseman, two of the
best playersin the Metropolitan team, and by these
offers endeavorec. to induce them to join the Brook:
lyn nine. This step failed, because the men were un-
willing to face tbe risk of the black list. Then the
plot to oust the Metropolitan Club from tke assogia-
tion was conceived, and taking advantage of the
transter of ownership, the Brooklyn leaders induced
tbe otber clubs toconsent to and assist 1n puttibg out
the Mets. But Mr. Wiman, the new owner of the
club, knew his rights,and by the recent decision in
the Philadelphia courts, readily and effectually ob-
tained them.

The result was that the Mets are again in the organ-
ization, and will play in the American series of cham-
pionsbip games during 1886. One would suppose that
this settled the whole difficulty, but it now appears
that the men who brought such humiliation and ex-
pense upon the association are not content, and are
stirring up moretrouble. Hoping that Mr. Wiman
would do anything for peace, they demanded Orr and
Roseman as the price of their consent to
take back the Mets into full fellowship, anu
for a time induced the other clubs to join them in that
stipulation. But Mr. Wiman refused to yield the
truits of his victory and the quéstion was dropped.

The Brooklyn Club, however, is disposed to fight
Mr. Wiman tor ibe possession of Orr and Roseman
and there is every probability ot & struggle in the
Courts. Now, it is to be boped that the men who have
invested large sums of money for the maintenance ot
baseball clubs in the American Association will rallv
round Mr. Wiman and prevent any more law busi-
ness. It is a well-known fact that profes;ional base-
ball plavers are becoming restive and that most of
them are desirous of asserting their independence. If
the Brooklyn Club andthe Mets go to law over Orr
and Roseman it may result in destroying all past
agreements and make players so.independent that the
question of salaries will be a tremendous one. It was
long ago seen that some sort of arrangement should be
made whereby the running expenses of a protessional
team might be kept within certain limitsin order that
the business of managing them would ‘have a reason-
able certainty of securing a profiton the investment,
the trouble and risk. What is the most siugular part of
the whole business 1s that two or three men in a single
and not very important club should be able to make
so much mischief. There is probably over a million
of dollars invested in baseball, yet all this capital is
placed in peril because a few men choose to dety all
existing regulations, and break every line of baseball
law for their own selfish ends.

Under the national agreement the Mets are entitled
to Orr and Roseman, because they announced them in
their reserve list last October, and the fact that the
disputed men signed contracts with Brooklyn on the
right of the illegal expulsion of the Mets, gives the
Brooklyn Club no legal bold upon them. The courts
put the Mets back in the association by deciaring that
they had not been lawfully ejected ; consequently,
any contracts signed on the ground they had been ex-
pelled are rendered null and void. That is common
Jaw and itis also common sense. But baseball men
should learn one thing, and that is that law proceed-
ings sometimes makes more wounds than they cure,
and as the professionai clubs have been legislating
among themselves in avery ignorant and heedless
way, it behooves them to be very careful how they
poke their fingers into the legal furnace.

Ooo

GIRLS WHO HIT VERY HARD.
They Put on the Gloves for Profit, Sport and
Pleasure.

[Subject of Illustration. |

There are overadozen young wofhen tn this city
who make a living by boxing. Several of the Bowery
concert halls employ at least two of tbem, who ap-
pear on the stage two or three evenings each week
and rouse the audience to enthusiasm bv the masterly
manner in which they “put up their right’”’ or lead out
from tbe shoulder.

The careless observer supposes that training and

‘ dieting is pot necessary in orderto make a good boxer,

but such isnot the case. The girls all have or once
had trainers, who look after their physica) condition
as carefully as if their pupils were men. °

Probably tbe best female boxer in town ts Nettie
Peckbam. who spars at Harry Hill’s almost every
evening. Sheis about twenty-five years of age, with
a clear, bealthy complexion, dark-brown eyes and
black hair. Miss Peckham is 5 feet 4 inches tn betght
and possesses a plump and compact form. She can
strike a blow which an ordinary man would find it
difficult to parry,and few of her female rivals feel
confidence enough in their powers to stand up in the
ring against her.

Miss Peckham’s most formidable opponent fs Miss
Nellie Edwards, who also spars at Harry Hill's tre-
quently. She is a blonde, somewhat taller than Miss
Peckham and possessed of what the pugilistic fratern-
ity term ‘a Jong reach.” Miss Edwards is exceeding-
ly quick on her feet, and the manner in which she
hops around and defivers blows, like the pattering of
hail, is apt to contuse an opponent.

At a leading Bowery saloon the star boxer is Emma
White, a rather pretty girl of twenty-one, who has
very small hands, which seem, however, to be as large
as bams to the stariled visions of the green young men
who sometimes go upon the stage and take a round
with Miss White. Toa reporter Miss White said last
evening.

“We receive from $15 to $25 per week at this busi-
ness. It takes six months’ practice to be a good
sparrer. Jimmy Kelly, of Kelly & Murphy, the
boxers, who are now in Europe, was my teacher. I
used to be nervous when I first began tbe business,
but I’m not afraid to face even Jobn L. Sullivan now.’
and Miss Emma put up herhands and sparred away
at an imaginary Bostonian.

Billy Edwards, the champion light-weight, was
asked by the reporter bow he trained women for the
prize ring.

“Well, [ haven’t done much of that sort of work

lately” was the reply; “but the system pursued is |

almost identical with that by wbhicb men are brought
jnto cordition, ‘The girls are made to practice for two

or three hours daily with dumb-bells not over one
pound in weight, and with ligbt Indian clubs. The
lessons usually last for an hour at a time and a smart
girl will soon be able to spar with most anybody.”

“Are they as hardy as men ?”

“Ob, nO; they get ‘winded’ too easily, and haven't
the endurance of men. Then they become discour-
aged more quickly and suon give upa fightin which
they are getting the worst of it. About 130 pounds is
the best weight fora woman boxer. They are put on

‘a diet while training, but it is rather to strengthen

them (hao to reduce their weight, as weight is not
considered ina match between women. Rare roast
beet and almost raw potatoes, a glass of beer occasion-
ally, and abstaining from pastry is the best dieting
for them.’’

There tsa wealthy merchant residing on FiJth avenue
whose three daughters take lessons almost daily.
They have a gymnaéium: fitted up in the house, and
ifa mashing slim should insult one of those girls bis
head would subsequently feel as if a mule had
kicked it.

STOLE HS FATHER’S BRIDE.

A Wealthy Chicago.Merchant Robbed of a Young
Wife.

The details of a recent romantic marriage in high
life transpired in Chicago last week, but the efforts of
the reporters have s> far failed to disclose the names
of the principals. The case is one in which the young
son married the youthful affianced of his father on the
eve of the latter’s intended wedding. The father is
& prominent merchant, forty-four years old, the lady
eighteen: and beautiful, and the son twenty-one and
only recently fromcollege. Dr. Clinten. Locke, pastor
of Grace Episcopal Church. performed the ceremony,
innocent of the tact that he was sealing tbe theft ot a
bride from one of the leading members of bis congre-
gation. :

It appears that the father in the story advised Dr.
Locke to be prepared to marry him at 7 o'clock on
Saturday night in the church. Dr. Locke was ac-
quainted with neither the affianced nor the son ot his
communicant,

At 6 o’clock on the Saturday evening in question a
young couple presented themselves at the pastor's
studio to be married. He doubted their legal respon-
sibility, but upon presentation of a murriage license he
waived his objections and made them man and wife.
His suspicions were not even excited by any stmilarity
of names. Mrs. Locke was an interested witness,
In relating the affair she said :

“They were the handsomest couple I ever saw.”

Promptly at 7 o’ciock Dr. Locke repaired to his
church, and there found the father, attended only by
two male friends. ;

“Iam sorry,” said the intended husband, “but Miss
is il, and the wedding will have to be post-
poned.”

The possible deception flashed upon the minister,
He told of the quiet ceremony i the parsonage.

A scene ensued in which the father, enraged, swore
he would take the lives of both offenders, and at last,
prostrated, was led out to the back in waiting. The
young couple have disappeared. The old gentleman
is very wealthy, as are the parents of the young lady.
It is scarcely probable that the remaining facts in the
aftair can remain long concealed.

oes

BURIED TREASURE.

Searching for Coin in the Helderbergs, Near
. Albany, N. Y.

Peter Hart, a shoemaker of Guilderland, Albany
county, N. Y., says a dispatch to a morning paper, bas
put the whole cogptry side in commotion. While
drawing wood on the Indian Ladder mountain a tort-
night ago he founda badly spelled letter, written on a
sheet of foolscap and -held down on a log by a Dit of
hemlock bark. It was dated September, 1885, and pre-
tended to be the confession of crime by John Robert
Swift, who claims to be the son ofa rich Englishman.
The writer says he came to this country in September,
1875, and continues : ;

“Coming over the ocean [ became acquainted with
a@ noted thief and burglac and he coaxed me to go with
him to Calitornia,and there we became acquainted
with two othér men of bad repute. The one was an
Irishman named John Hailey. at least that was the
name he went by. There we robbed a bank and stole

He then says he and Hailey came to New York and
then went to Canada, as it became hot for them. Then
they went to the Helderberg mountains, Albany coun-
ty, where they lived inacave. A quarrel on July 4
led to Hailey’s death, and Swift says that he left $15,-
000 in the cave in asatchel. Now the people are busy
searching for the treastre,

Pow

McARTHUR’S LUCK.

He Put In His Thumb and Drew Out a Plum.

Col. William M. McArthur, of Limington, investsin
the Louisiana State Lottery and draws the second cap-
ital prize of $50,000.

For a week or more, rumors have been afloat about
the city, that somebody living in one of the Saco
river valley towns 1n this county; had drawn a large
prize in the Louisiana State Lottery, and a Journal
reporter was set to work to materialize the rumors if
possible. Afteratime the man was located in Lim-
ington, and Thursday afternoon, the reporter went to
that town to ferret out the lucky tndividual, whose
reticence had tbus far kept his-name from the public.
By what means he succeeded it is unnecessary to
here state. Suffice it to say. that he found his man in
the person of Col. William M. McArthur, @ prominent
and bighly respected citizen of Limington village.

Col, McArthur, more from curivsity than from any
expectation of drawing a prize, bought ticket No.
14,928 ot The Louisiana State Lottery Co., which in the
company’s drawing of the 15th of last month, proved
to be one of the lucky numbers as it drew the whole
of the second capital prize ot $50,000. Last Saturdav,
the Louisiana National Bank ot New Orleans, for-
warded to the First National Bank of Portland, the
money, and Col. McArthur is now In possession of the
profits of the best paying investment he ever made.

With the income of bis 850,000 and a pension of $30a
month, which he draws from the government on ac-
count of injuries to his left side and ankle, received in
battie, the Colonel will be able to keep the wolf from
his door for wapy years to come.—Siddeford (Me.)
Journal. Jan, 9

prance ps

Gibb disieiwinnkeee

uP a he

Mseieddie cuaeenicoad

AOR RE tee sh

AEs ORRIN TE ERM URE REE

ie inte Sa Be Ac Ma

meas

ities — SS:

Fait

See et eed

OB amo ME OLINGER: AT AEN CORRE MNT MPMI S hy

Hi if ee Wa | | Ths
WT Wa) A! hy
STATA iy td

WS ep uy 1H voll
“Zp # Va lipaanl
ae | ig
Y | QS
Wy NS Vil
i Hif i Ny

— ~ os - — ~ ome los ee ae areeill re ee ame am ae aor ee — a ee

An nee: - « udnemeranes - 063 Pree ~ =

ea = : 2 a : wat e a ae GALTRATAS La 2S = vee =
RA le bE oho Nant SIRT Rie a ORCI SER ARE SORT EtNAS ha es

V.-—-The Weaker Sex,

TO A SCRATCH WITA HER FINGER NAILS.
IV.—A Parlor Bout.

THE WOMANLY ART.

Ill_—Training Under Instructions of a Champion.

TAUGHT TO PREFER A BOUT WITH THE GLOVES,

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

Il.—Fair Professionals.

THE MODERN GIRL

I1—Her First Lesson.

~ NG pa cia eo

Ped r

Sf: peeresTM

Te ae

10 THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

PUGILISTIC NEWS.

A Close and Accurate Resume of the
Arenic Events of the Week.

The glove contest for $50 a side between Jimmy
Kelly, of Newark, N. J., and H. E. Strickler, of Philadelphia, was
decided recently at a well-known resortin Newark. After 4 well-
contested rounds, kelly was knocked out

At Hot Springs, Ark., on Jan. 5, Bob Farrell. of New
York, and Ed. Burke, champion of Arkausas, fought 4 rounds,
Queensbury rules. Both men showed a bigh degree of science, and
the general impression in the audience seemed to be iv favor of
Burke as getting the best of the contest.

xeter J. Rammells writes that he will match J. Mag-
ginis, of the Waluut Polo Club,of Locxport, N. Y., to box any mem-
ber of the Central Polo Club, of Lockport, with or without gloves,
Police Gazett-"' rules, for $100 to $500 a side. The contest to be
fought within fifty miles of Lockport. The challenged party to
name time and place

The following explains itself:

To the Sporting Editor :

In arceent issue of vour paper my name was used, with others,
as being afraid wo meet Sam Collyer for the light-weight champion-
ship of America. Will you allow me space to correct that state-
ment, as I will meet any 133 or 135 pound man living, any time,
with suitable notice, fora purse. If Collyer pr McAuliffe will como
to Boston, they can make a match with me any time. My business
at Harvard College as teacher of sparring won't allow me time to
be running all over the country, but any. would-be champion can
get all the tight he wants by coming this way.

Very truly yours, Bruty Frazier.

There is now a prospect of an international prize
ring encounter for the championship of the world, for $5,000, be-
tween the champions of the old and new worlds. Tne English
Sporting press have pronounced Jem Smith, of London, who recent-
ly defeated Jem Davis, Jem Mace’s protege, in a contest fought by
the London prize ring rules, for $2,000 and the championship, and
several English sporting men are so carried away with Smith's
great ability and tremendous hitting powers that they offer tomatch
him, win or lose with Alfred Greenfield (whom he fights for £300,
$1,500 a side), against John L. Sullivan, the champion of America,
for £100, ($2,000) a side and the ‘‘Police Gazette” champion belt of
the world.

The following letter was recently received at this office:

Richard K. Foz, Esq. :

Dean Sin—Understanding that some time ago you published in
the Porice Gazurte an offer of the diamond belt for any pugilist in
the world tocompete for, according to the new rules of the London
prize ring. Not having read of any of the pugilists in America
¢el.iming or contending for the trophy, would you please inform me
if 1 would be allowed to fight for the same and defend it against all
oumers, or is it only for pugilists in the United States to contend
for. If the “Police Gazette’ champion belt of the world is open to
any pugilist in the world to fight for, please state in the next issue
of your widely-read paper that I will be ready to fight the best man
in the world, and U understand that is John L. Sullivan, of Boston,
for £200 a side and the champion belt, or according to the rules
governing the same. The fight to be decided on French or United
States territory, at a reasonable time from signing articles of
agreement. I have so far an unbeaten certificate and hold the title
of champion of England, baving fought and won that title. Hoping
¢* hear favorably from you, I remain, JAMES SMITH.

In reply the following was received from Sullivan :

Richard K. For. Esq.:

In regard to the challenge issued by Jem Smith, the champion of
England, to meet me or any man in the world, according to London
prize ring rules, for £200 a side and the championship of the world,
please forward the following to the Sporting Life, London:

“Twill be ready to arrange a match to meet Mr. James Smith, the
ehampion of England, according to the rules of the
London prize ring. with small gloves or without
gloves for any amount from $2,500 to $10,000 a side and the heavy-
weight diamond champion belt of the world, which rules must
govern the contest. Tne battle to be decided either in Ireland or
the United States. If the former place is selected Smith must,
allow expenses, and if he agrees to meet me in this country I will
allow him reasunable expenses. Richard K. Fox to be final stake-
holder and-referce. If Smith's backers object to Richard K. Fox
appointing the referee I will agree that the editor of the Sporting
Life, London, with Richard K. Fox, agree upon that official. AN
that I require is a fair decision, fair play, and the best man win.

“Jdun L. Suttivan,
“Champion pugilist of the world.”

The pending negotiations for an international prize
ring encounter between th: recoguized champions of the Old and
New World brings one back twenty-five years, to the time when the
Great Heenan and Sayers battle was fought. Siuce Jem Mace,
Ne1 O'Baldwin and Joe Wormald left England, and Harry Allen
died, England has been Without a recognized champion, although
many claime! that distinction by being successful in glove contests
by new rules introduced by a man who liked to see boxing accord-
ing to his ideas. and who, after framing a set of rules for the guid-
ance of amateurs, had the editor of the Sporting Life, London, ar-
range a set to govern professional boxing. Now that the prize ring
has been revive Lin Englaad, and its supporters are ma ry of the
same class who patronized and upheld the prize ring during 1850
to 1860, and taking into consideration England has turned out what
may be termed a genuine champion who is ready to meet
all comers in the roped arena, it is more than proba-
ble that another great international battle will be arranged.
The English champion has thrown down the gauntlet and courage-
ously offers to mecs any man for the heavy-weight championship
belt of the world and $1,000 a side. Sullivan holds the champion-
ship, and there is not the least doubt but that he will boldly eater
the arena and defend the trophy against the English champion.

No matter whether the proposed battle is fought in the United
Stated, England or France, it will create a widespread interest,
and if the proposed encounter is satisfactorily arranged and decid-
ed only by the best man winning, the P. R. will receive another
boom. The champion of England's defi has been replied to by the
donor of the belt, who states that he will pot only permit Jem
Smith to contend for the trophy if Sullivan is willing, but it is
proposed «iso to give a purse of $2,500 toward the $2,000 a
side, the proposed amount of the contest. As far as
Sullivan is concerned the match is made. Sullivan only desires
that gloves must be worn instead of bare knuckles, and all the
other conditions propesed by Smith suit. Of course the battle must
take place on American soil. The stakes, $4,000, with the $2,500
offered, and the champiou belt, which with the diamonds cost
$2,500, will amount to $9,000, within $1,000 of the largest stake ever
contested for in England or in this country. So that there can be
no hitch in the matter as far as stakes are concerned, Richard K.
Fox would back Sullivan against any man in the world
for $10,000 if it was necessary, and should Greenfield de-
feat Smith, which is very doubtful, and the latter's
backers, who belong to a well-known ¢lub in London, refuse to
back him. Smith is said by Bill Richardson, of Shoreditch, Jem
Mace, and all the prize ring critics to be a wonder. George W.
Atkinson, of the Sporting Life, Dan Thomas, of the Sporting
Chronicle, speak of him with the highest praise. He fights in con-
dition at 1X5 pounds which is within 8 pounds of Sullivan's weight,
while he is only twenty-three years of age, just four years younger
than the champion, but in height Sullivan has 2 inches the advan-
tage. It makes no difference about his, Smith's, height, age or
weight, as he has proved he possesses all the most essential points
necessary to make a first-class boxer—courage, science and stamina
—and he has plenty of money behind him, yes, a small for-
tune if he ouly i in 1 ing Greenficld. We
have not the faintest idea that he can conquer Sullivan
but judging from all reports, Smith will be the most dangerous op-
ponent Sullivan ever met, and no matter how many advantages
Sullivan possesses over the heavy weight division, for the sake of
his reputation and the national reputation, of the Stars and
Stripes and Erin-go-Bragh, he will have to make great preparations
for the battle in order to be on equal terms with the foe. Since
negotiations fur the proposed great international match has opened
there is great excitement on both sides of the Atlantic, and every
one is patiently waiting to see the result of the Smith and Green:
Seld enecunter

FROM WEEK TO WEEK WE WILL PUBLISH A PRIZE-
RING CHRONOLOGY OF THE FISTIC EN-
COUNTERS OF | 1x5.

April 8—Ned Matthews beat Deuny Healy, hard gloves, 5 rounds,
purse, Boston, Mass.

April }—John L. Suilivan avd Paddy Rvan signed articles of
agreement to fight with small gloves, for a purse of $2,500
and the "Police Gazette” diamond belt, offered by Richard K.
Fox, at Jersey City.

April 9—Tom Henry, light-weight pugilist, after being discharged
from Whit: Plains jail for engaging in a glove contest with
Murray, was tendered a benetit at Harry Hill's,

April 10—Frank McCuliough beat Jack O'Donnell, of Plaintield, N.
J., London prize ring rules, bare kuuckics, 7 rounds, $250 a
side, near Newark, Del.

April 10—Joe Lennan beat Matt Cunningham, gloves, 5 rounds,
$100, Boston, Mass.

_ April 10—Joe Slocum beat Pat O'Brien, gloves, 4 rounds, $500, El-

mira, N. Y.

April 11—Tom Silvers, pugilist, committed suicide by drinking
Jaudanum at Srteator, I].

April 13—William Dowd beat J§ McDermott, gloves, purse, 19
rounds, Philadelphia, Pa.

April 13—Clipper Dounahue fough
rounds, purse. police intcricrg

April 14—Charley Mitchel) left fa an Francisco.

April 14—Jack Dempsey arriv n Sau Francisco.

April 14—W. A. Robinson beat Joc Johnson, bare knuckles, Lon-
don prize rules, $250 a side, 19 rounds, 1 hour 53 minutes, Kit-
tanning, Pa. Pic

April 15—Sam Bittle beat Morris Casey, $250 a side, hard gloves,
6 reuuds, Eastwood, Ont.

April 16-- Jim Pherson beat Sam McKay, 11 rounds, hard gloves,
**Police Gazette’’ rules, New York.

April 15—J. McShane beat F. Williams, $100 a side, hard gloves,
16 rounds, South Orange, N. J.

April 15—John McAuliffe beat Ed. Wagner for light-weight cham-
pion belt, 3 rounds, New York.

April 15—George Smith beat Patsy Carey, gloves, 2 rounds, purse,
J.awrence, Mass.

April 16-Harry Leonard beat Andy Fogarty. gloves, 5 rounds,
15 minutes, purse, Philadelphia, Pa.

April 17—Tom Barry beat Charley. Hines. hard gloves, purse, 2
rounds, Sau Francisco, Cal.

April 16—Jim Fell beat D. Butler, purse, skin gloves, 21 rounds,

20 minutes 52 seconds, Harlem, New York. z

April_17—Gcorge La Blanche, the Marine, and Pete McCoy fought
a draw, with gloves, $500. 2 rounds, 4 minutes 10 seconds, police
interfered, purse divided, Boston, Mass.

April 17—Chris. Sommers beat Mike Cookley, hard gloves, 4 rounds,
$50, Chicago, Il.

April 17—Jack Campbell beat Jack Hopkins, gloves, 5 rounds,
purse, San Francisco, Cal.

April 19—Jim Bates beat Wm. Barnett,-Leadville, Col., gloves.

April 19—Pat Brady and Wm. Barnett, draw, gloves, Leadville.

April 20—Island City Athletic Club competitions, feather-weights,
C, Elliogsworth beat Ed. Kelly. Light-weights, G. Kleen beat
A. Fernandez.

April 20—Jack Williamson beat John Hughes, $500, gloves, 17
rounds in 1 hour 7 minutes, Pittsburg, Pa.

April 20—John Lawrence beat Ed Starr, Leadville, Col., stakes

April 21—Ernest Williams and Patrick Lawlor fought according to
London prize ring rules, for $500, 1 round ; battle ended by a
free fight, Snake Island Grove, Pa., April 21.

April 2i—John Banks (colored) beat Bill Davis, hard gloves, 3
rounds, purse, New York city.

April 22—Jack Mitchell beat J. U. O’Brien, gloves, 8 rounds, purse,
San Francisco, California.

April 22—John W. Robinson beat Ed Patterson, gloves, in 2 mln-
utes, at Sarona, Cal.

April 23—Jim Conners beat George Young, purse, gloves, 7 rounds»
New York.

April 24—Bill Bradburn beat Jim McClarney, gloves, gate money,
1 round, 1 minute, Chicago, Il.

April 24—Johuny C. McGee beat Denny Healy, small gloves, 3
rounds, purse, Boston, Mass.

April 25—Charles Berner beat Tom Turk,
rounds, Portland, Oregon.

April 25— Billy Bradburn fought a draw with Jim Connelly, gloves.
5 rounds, gate moucy, Milwaukee, Wis.

April 25---Georg Hamill beat Bill Price, colored, gloves, 4 rounds,
$100, San Francisco.

April 25—Young Johuson beat P. O'Sullivan, gloves, $100, 1 round,
2 minutes 30 seconds, San Francisco.

April 25-—Frank Hopkins beat Henry Mack, gloves, 3 rounds,
purse, San Francisco.

April 29—J. McDevitt and W. McKenzie met to fight with gloves,
but the police appeared and arrested the principals, Phila-
delphia.

April 29—Ted Dillon beat J. Crowley, London prize ring rules,
$200, 44 rounds, Colliers Station, W. Va.

April 29—Jack Smith and Jim McDevitt, at Philadelphia, 3 rounds,
police interfering.

April 29—Ed. McKeown beat Ben Arthurs, $100 a side, skin gloves,
8 rounds, 29 minutes, Neche, D. T. ;

April 29—Clipper Donnahue beat Wm. Gabig, gloves, 10 rounds, 27
minutes, purse, room, Philadelphia, Pa.

April 29—Joe Lennan beat Matt Cunningbam, gloves, 4 rounds,
$25, Boston, Mass.

April 29—George Godfrey beat Barney Small, both colored, hard
gloves, 2 rounds, Salem, Mass., $25.

May 2—Charley McCoy beat Tommy Barnes, $250, gloves, 10
rounds, room, near Philadelphia, Pa.

May ?—George Thompson beat Ed Scott (both colored), bare
knuckles, 10 rounds, purse, near Trenton, N. J.

a draw, Ben Bailey (colored), 6
» Philadelphia, Pa.

250, hard gloves, 13

“May 3—Young Johnson beat Jack McuKenna, bare knuckles, purse,

3 rounds, Providence, R. I.

May 4—Dr. Crowthorne beat B. Brown, London prize ring rules, 2
rounds, 30 minutes 10 seconds, Reading, Eng.

May 4—Jack Dempsey beat Tom Barry, 6 rounds, San Francisco,
Cal.

May 5—Jim McGrath beat Deanis O'Brien. kid gloves, $300, 21
rounds, South Elizabet. ‘. ¥ Fs

May 5—Leon Van Walt beat Joha Hughes, bare knuckles, 1 round,
foul, $100 a side, Wheeling, W. Va.

May 6—Tug Collins fought a draw with John Harlin, gloves, $75, 6
rounds, Boston, Mass.

May 6—Frank Ware beat Paddy Welsh, gate money, gloves, °3
rounds, Chicago, Il.

May 6—Martin Snee tought a draw with Con Toomey, purse,
gloves, 6 rounds. Boston, Mass.

May 6—James Fitzsimmons and Young Green fought a draw, hard’
gloves, purse, 6 rounds.

May 6—Tom Palmer beaten by Mat Wiler, foul, purse, gloves, 3
rounds, San Diego, Cal. :

May 6—G. L. Mallock beat Tom Carney, purse, hard gloves, 5
rounds, Port Jervis, N. Y.

May 6—Henry McGlone beat Jack Keegan, purse, gloves, 2 rounds,
Boston, Mas.

May 7—Nobby Clark fought a. draw with Ed Dorney, gate motey,
gloves, 4 rounds, Chicago, II).

May 7—James J. NcDermoit beat J. McDermott, $50 a side, gloves,
3 gloves, South Boston, Mass.

May 8—Charles Norton beat Jack Burgess, 6 rounds, purse, $500,
New York.

May 9—Pat Smith beat Jack Hopper. purse, gloves, 12 rounds, 45
minutes 50 seconds, Jersey City, N. J.

May 10—J. Morrissey (nephew of the great pugilist) beat Dick
Egan, the Troy Terror, 1 round.

May 11—William Springall beat George Rooke, gloves, 3 rounds,
New York city.

May 11—Jack Dempsey beat Tom Cieary, small gloves, gate money,
5 rounds, San Francisco, Cal.

May 12—B. Brimmer beat Ed. Labot, $25, soft gloves, Texas.

SPORTING NEWS

May 12—Madden's boxing competitions. Feather weight, Harry |

Meyer beat G. Hamill. Light weight. Tom Casey beat Barry
Gray. 124 pounds competition, Jack McAuliffe beat Harry
White. Heavy weight, Ed. Starte beat J.Carmody. Gold and
silver medals, Turn Hall, New York city.

May 13—William Welsh beat Jerry Desmond, $25 a side and a
purse of $50. bare knuckles, 10 rounds. New Haven.

May 14—Owen Brady beat J. McBride, 9 rounds, near Glasgow,
Scotland.

May 14—Prof. Hawley fought a draw with Harry Williams, at Des
Moines, Iowa, contest stopped.

May 15—Jake Kilrain fought a draw with George Fryer, $500, room,
emell gloves, 6 rounds, Seath Boston, Mass.

All heartily welcome—every one! The sporting rooms of this
paper are always open to all classes of sporting men, no matter
whether they desire information or want to arrange matches.
Every sporting man should bring his friends to see the elegantly
Surnished ofices, to witness the galary of champion emblems,
trophies, pictures and the other many objects of interest, The
largest and anly life-size picture of John L. Sullivan, the renowned
pugilist, known as the Drohan picture, The picture stands five
feet in height, represents the champion in full ring costume, and
is the most artistic portrait of a pugilist ever seen, and is well
worth a visit.

The dog fight for $50 a side between the dogs Mc
and Siger was decided at Syracuge recently. The dog Mc lost on a
foul.

The wrestling match for a purse of $25 between Joe
Mack and Jack licks was decided at Providence on Jan. 1. Mack
winning in 10 minutes.

The English cattle men of Laramie City, Wyoming,
are eager to match Ed Smith. of Birmiuguam, Eng., against Harry
Hynds. of Wyoming, for $5,000.

Gyp, a bulldog weighing 30 pounds, was pitted against
a blood-hound crossed by a bull-terricr, in this city, Jan. 12, for
$100, and Gyp won in 1 hour 20 minutes.

Mambrino Sparkle, who made a record of 2:19 last
October at Detroit, has been purchased from W. C. McCarthy by
W. J. Gordon, owner of Clingstoue, for $8,000.

James A. Powers, of Kansas City, Mo., is willing to
match his two dogs, Cowboy and Baby, against any two dozs in
America for $500 a side. Cowboy weighs 45 pounds; Raby, 2544
pounds.

The 5-mile roller skating race between William Mil-
holm and Wm. Kuhn,of Salamanca, N. Y., was decided at Brad-
ford, Pa., recently. Milholm won the race in 18 minutes 45 sec-
onds. The stakes were $500 a side.

The dog fight, for $200, between George Patterson’s
dog Mack, age, eleven years, weighing 3244 pounds, and the dog
Guinea, age. 3 years, weighing 3414 pounds, was decided at a well-
known resort in Philadelphia recently. After a hard- rmeghe battle
of 1 hour 15 minutes Mack was declared the winner..

In the great chess match between Steinitz and Zuker-
tort, the former won the first game Jan. 1!. The rival champions
are playing for $5,000, and the victor must score ten games irge-
spective of draw, but should both players win nine games, the
match will be considered drawn. To win, the majority must be ten
oreight. On Jan. 13 Zukertort won the second game. The contest
is creating considerable interest.

At the annual election of the Pastime Athletic.Club
of New York the following gentlemen were elected officers for the
ensuing year: J. Burckhardt, president; George Wolf, vice-presi-
dent; George P. Kaiser, treasurer; A. Von Bergen, financial secre-
tary; John P. Boyle, recording secretary ; A. H. Lewis, captain ;
George Marr, lieutenant; E. C. Carter, C. G. Bothner, Harry
Riley, M. W. Boyle and J. J. Kearnes. games committee.

The following explains itself :
To the Sporting Editor :

I hereby challenge Fred J. Daily, of Grand Rapids, Mich.. to spar
to a finish for $200 and the total gate receipts. with small gloves,
London prize ring rules to govern, the mutch to take place within
fifty miles of Reid City, Mich. I have deposited $50 with the edi-
tor of the Detroit Free Press. Witiiam Dantes,

Cadillac, Mich.

The annual great ‘ourling mateh for the Dalrymple

medal—North against the South—was played at Central Park, New
York, on Jah. 12. The North won by 12 points. Score: North, 157};
South, 145. William Winterbottom was referee. The donor of the
medal, Mr. Alexander Dalrymple, was an interested spectator of
the match. The president of the Grand Natioual Curling Club of
America was presented with the Dalrymple medal. Mr. George
Grieve won the Hoogland flagand Mr. James Stewart the Kilpat-
rick medal. the two last being first end second skip prizes.

Recently at the annual meeting of the Poughkeepsie
(N. Y.) Iceboat Club the following officers were elected: Commo-
dore. Theodore V. Joh 3 Vice dore, William R. Innis,
secretary and treasurer, Thomas H. Ransom; regatta committe,
Thomas H. Ransem, Theodore Van Kleck and William F. Booth.
A challenge from the Hudson River Ice Yacht Club to sail for the
challenge pennant of America, and another to sail for the Pough-
keepsie challenge pennant were both accepted, the latter first. A
challenge from the New Hamburg Club to sail for the challenge
pennant of America was also accepted.

On Jan. 17 Officer Conner caught Stony Cameron, the
boxer, of Greenpoint, and a confederate stripping copper from a
ferryboat at Astoria, and arsested them. On the way to the station
house Cameron turned and dealt the policeman a blow in the face.
The blow staggered the policeman, and before he could recover him-
self Cameron had broken from his grasp and was making off. Con-
ner called on him to stop, but as no heed was paid to the demand
he fired athim. The bullet took effect in Cameron's left leg. He
fell headlong to the ground, aud wascaptured. The wound isin the
fleshy part of the leg. The builet was not extracted.

Jack Burgess, the well-known Brooklyn pugilist who
succeeded in winning the $250 purse offered by the Crib Club of
Boston, from George La Blanche, the Marine, called at this office
Jan. 12. Burgess stated that when La Blanche could not conquer
him by hard thumps with his fists, he tried to win Japanese style
—buttiug—and when he found that he could not make him stop, he
tried other unfair practices. Burgess thinks Dempsey will beat La
Blanche any time they meet, with a fair referee, who will see that
the rules are not: infringed upon. Burgess displayed a deep cut
over his left eye, done by I.a Blanche’s ram-like propensities.

On Jan. 14 the game fowls of Passaic and Paterson
met in battle arfay at Rutherford Park, N. J.,in a main. Seven
couples weighed in, the conditions being $50 a battle and $150 on
the odd fight. Both handlers were gentlemen of color, who revel
in the sobriquets of ‘‘The Blinker” and *‘Double Six."" The former
hails from Orange county, N. Y., and handled for Passaic. From

the commencement the Patersonians were outbirded, the robin ~

breasts shown by their antaganists proving to be great billers and
slashers. They won the main out of four straight fights, thus cap-
turing $350 for their backers, besides several hundred dollars more
in side bets.

The athletic interests of Yale College at New Haven
begin to be largely quoted, afd much is anticipated by those who
hope to see better luck for Yale in 1886 than in 1885. So far as the
course on the Thames at New London next summer is concerned,
‘*Bob" Winston, the trainer of the crew, said recently that Yale's
athletic interests: are far brighter now than at any time since he
had been connected with the co'lege. There is more‘interest shown
this year than last. The gymnasium is filled all day acd up to the
time ofclosing at night. The athletic team is training carefully, so
that when spring opens much time need not be spent in getting the
men into condition.

Among the Yale College athletes who will represent’

Yale at the inter-collegiate games at Mott Haven, N. Y.. this
spring is Brooks, Yale’s champion runner. He is now undergoing

a course of severe training and will give a good record of himself.

Sherrill, 89, the winner of the 100-yard race in the fall games, will
run, and so will Bradner, of the same’ciass. Smith, ‘86, will run
in the half-mile, and Luddington, ‘86, in the 200-yard contest.
Davison, ‘88, Sheffield, S. S., and Magindee, of the same class, are
both good men. The most promising men for the tug-of-war are
Farrington, ‘86, Sheffield; Davison, ‘86, Sheffie!d; Beckwith. ‘89;

Jim Glynn, of Williamsburgh, with several friends,
called at this office, deposited $10 forfeit and issued a challenge to
Jack Clark. of Long Island City, to fight for $100 a side in a room,
with not more than half a dozen aside. Glynn fought on Long
Island last spring for a purse made up from the sale of tickets.
Although over three hundred witnessed the fight, but $74 was shown
up as the net proceeds of the sale, and all that was staked on the
battle. Glynn was defeated. as he says unfairly.gwing to the
interference of Clark with a gang of heelers, who yumped into the
ring, assaulted him and frightened the referee to decide against
him. Glynn deposited? a forfeit. and calls on Mr. Clark to cover
the same and arrange a match, when he claims that he will prove
to Clark that he (Clark) cannot whip one side of him.

The fourteenth annual meeting of the National Rifle
Assccistion was held at the Twenty-second Regiment armory, this

city,on Jan. 12. Col. George W. Wingate presided. Among those
preseut were Gen. J. H. Robbins, Inspector of Rifle Practice; Col
R. C. Ward, L. C. Bruce, John S. Shepherd, Lieut. E. L. Zalinski
U.S. Army; Capt. G. Henry Withaus and Col. Howard,'U.S. As
sistant District Attorney. Secretary John S. Shepherd read his
annual report and suggested the propriety of an internationa)
match some time this year. The following gentlemen were clected
directors for the ensuing year: Cols. G. W. Wingate, John Ward
R. C. Ward, Joseph G. Story and Lieut. E. L. Zalinski, U. 8
Army.

The Onota Lake boat house, near Pittsburg, has been
the scene of many a lively cock fight during the past few years
among birds belonging to North Adams and Pittsfield sporticg men.
On Jan. 19 about forty men were gathered about the pit watching
some lively fights among some of the best cocks in that part of the
country. Two mains had beea fought when a man on the lookout
came iv and shouted ‘‘Police!“’ Six Pittsficld sheriffs were driving
up at arapid pace. The party scattered and took to the woods.
Several men were identified, however, and among them were some
of the most prominent citizens of both towns. They will be ar.
rested and brought into court. @ix game cocks were captured by the
officers and locked up in the jail for safe-keeping.

Recently a Boston paper published a series of lies
abuvut Jack Dempsey, accusing him of cowardice in refusing to
meet La Blanche. Dempsey hurried to Boston and offered to fight
the Marine at once for fun er money. La Blanche could not raise
the money, and said he would not fight for fun, which “Dempsey
says he offered todo. On the day followiug we received the follow.
To the Sporting Editor:

Will you please allow me space in your paper to deny certain
stat nts reflecting discredit on Mr. Jack Dempsey, claimed to
have emanated from me. I certainly never made the remarks nor
caused them to be printed. Moreover, I do not believe such slan-
der would impair Mr. Dempsey's standing, backed as he is by a
reqord unsurpassed by any man of his professiun. I cannot answer
for everything in the press, but will stand responsible for anything
with my name. ‘attached. Tom Bocus.

The great Inter-State curling match between New
York and New Jersey was playedon Haledon Lake, Paterson, N,
J.,on Jan. 14. Ninety-six curlers participated, and it was the
largest INAS tate match ever played, and thcre were twelve rinks
a side. - The match was rendered all the more interesting from the
fact that each, State had won four victories in the previous eight
matches. Mr. David Foulis, secretary of the Gra d National Curl-
ing Club. wag appointed umpire, and the game gommenced at one
o’vlock and finished at five P. M., wheu it was found New York had
won,by 48 shots, Mr. Robert Kellock, of Yonkers. won the Hamilton
medal by having the longest score on the winning side. New York
was represented: by rinks from the following clubs: Caledonian,
New York; Caledonian, Brooklyn; Manhattan, Yonkers; New
York, Empire City, Thistle, New York, and Thistle, Brooklyn. The
total score was 268. For New Jersey there were rinks from the
Jersey City, Newark, Paterson, Ivanhoe and Little Falls clubs.
The aggregate score was 220.

The following explains itself:

To the Sporting Editor :

We have been waiting paitiently we one of the many puzgilists to
accept our challenge, but I see they all have failed for s0.:.e reason,
and still Jack Dempsey issues a challenge to fight any man living,
bar Sullivan and Ryan. We have a forfeit at yotr oflice and I
am willing to back Conley against any man in America, bar Sulli-
van. Conley: has instructed me to answer the challenge issued by
Jack Dempsey. He says he will fight Jack Dempsey, Paddy Ryan,
Charley Mitchell, Dominick McCaffrey, Jack Burke, or any other
man in America, bar John L. Sullivan, for from $1,000 to $2,000 a
side, either Loadon prize ring or-Queensbury rules. Now, I think
any man that wishes to arrange a match should not let this chal-
lenge go unnoticed. Conley is not a professional, but is willing to
be at the risk of ‘his money. Perhaps those pugilists simply con-
sider him a farmer, but why not catch him by hiscrop. I will
meet the many pugilists at the Portce Gazetre office any time
they may name. Yours truly. J. D. Havags,

M. C. Conuey.

P. S.—Please notify me when challenge is accepted, and I will

go right on to:New York.

In regard tothe prize fight between Jem Smith, of Lon-
don, and Alf. Gre-nfield, of Birmingham, for £500 a side and the
championship of England, the folluwiig was received by Richard
K. Fox from the Potick GazETTE correspondent, at London, Eng:
land, under date of Jan. 9: ‘‘Never siuce Joe Goss and Harry
Allen were matched to fight for the champion belt and £200 a side
in August, 1868, which match was broken up the authorities and
Goss and Allen arrested, has there been so much interest on this
side of the Fish Pond in a prize ring encounter, as there is now
manifested in the coming great match for the championship and
£500, between Jem Smith, the present champion of England, and
Alf. Greeufeld, of Birmingham, for £500 and the championship of
England. Both pugilists have been steadily training and, strange
to say, Greenfield is a heavy favorite and heaps of money are
being put up on the Brummagen’s chauces of winning. If the bat-
tle was to be decided near Birmingham no one would wender at
Greenfield being such a Derby favorite because the Brummagen
champions always made every effort to make their man win, and
they left no stone unturned todoso. The coming battle for the
championship is to be decided, it is said, on French soil, so there is
little prospect that the battle will end by the Brummagen chaw-
pion’s followers making a win, tie or wrangle. The batule is to be
fought according tothe old style, and the only proper one with the
raw ‘uns, and according to the new rules of the London prize ring.
The tickets to admit the spectators to the-trysting place will be one
guinea, and ifthey were five times that amount they would be in
demand, as ‘quite adelegation from Downing street and the clubs
are mating “quiet preparations to witness what promises to be a
genuine mill. In all the sporting drums at Shoreditch, Snow Hill,
High Holborn, Whitechapel, Mile End Road. Long Acre, and
the Minories the mill is the topic of conversation, and large
bets of £50 and even £100 are being staked on the result.
The old veteran ring goers who have witnessed many a great battle
in the past tip Smith as the winner because they belicve he is just
as great a wonder as-Sullivan. the American champion, who jas
reigned supreme since he defeated old Joe Goss (recently deceased),
conqueror in the great battle at Mississippi City, U. S. Smith,
{t'is true, showed wonderful form when he met and* defeated Jem
Mace’s protege. Jack Davis, but whatever the latter done to make
him such a pet we are ata lossto imagine. In America, if-reports
are true, he boxed several times, but never gained a victory, while
his performances on this side prior to his meeting Smith were few
and far between. If one was torate Smith a wonder merely be-
cause he whipped Davis, his reputation would not be worth a six-
pence. and his admirers at the elub in which he is engaged at £5 per
week to teach the manly art and his backers would do better putting
their money on a 20to} chance for the Two Thousand Guineas than
finding such un extravagant sum as £250 for him to meet Greenfield.
Smith has no doubt been heavily backed b the bers
of the club admire him, and because they are aware that he has
never yet met his equal with or without the gleves. He conquered
Davis-in a quick off-hand manner, while it must be allowed he was
in «no condition, being nearly a stone over his fighting weight.
Greenfield is such a favorite with the Brums and several of the Lon-
don bookmakers and Liverpool pencilers—because he claims that
he beat the American champion. Sullivan, at Boston, when he was
in America, under contract with Richard K. Fox. Tiere has
always been a.strange mixture about Greenfield's bout in America
with Sullivan, and while many believe he did have the best of the
encounter there are thousands here, who take great interest in the
doings of the prize ringin America, who think Sullivan can beat 8
dozen Greenfields. Many base their opinion from the fact that
Greenfield could not defeat Jack Burke in the United States
nor George Frever, who he met with the mufflers, ac-
cording to what is known in the Land of Stars and
Stripes as ‘‘Police Gazette’ rules, which are a mixture of London
prize ring and Marquis of Queensbury rules. Greenfield's per-
formances in this country have not been very rosy, he has beaten
several men who were miles behind championship form, and been
beaten by middie-weights. He is past the age taat turns out cham-
pions, and if Smith ‘is only as fit or half as the day he met Davis he
will certainly win. Greenfield will weigh nearly a stone less than
the champion, besides he will have Jem Mace and Jack Hicks to
second him, which will no doubt assist him to win. Judging from
the secret manner that the managers of the mill are carrying out
their arrangements it is the opinion of many that the fight will be
over before the authorities think the time has srrived.

ItuHaca, New York.

Any person unable to buy this paper from their newsdealer can
havd it forwarded from this office at the rate of $1.00 for shred
months,

THE REFEREE.

His Thoughts, Opinions and Expres-
sions on Matters of Sport-
ing Interest.

George Wethers will ride next season for W. L. Cas-
sidy & Co.

The great race-horse Freeland, the conqueror of Miss
Woodford, has been fired aud his groggy legs of last year are said
to be immensely improved.

During 1885 Jack Burke has conquered Jack Barnes,
Jack Haley, Alf. Greenfield. Captain Daiton and Mike Cleary;
fought draws with Charley Mitchell, Alf. Greentield, Mike Cleary
and John P. Clow and been defeated by John L. Sullivan.

I think there is little probability of a race between

W. G. George, the English professional runner, and L. E. Myers.

The former is eager to run Myers, but the latter is
not eager at present for a race.

Ten years ago there were but nineteen trotters—nine
mares and ten geldings—that had beaten 2:20. There are 137 2:20
performers now, and the list includes sixty-four,geldings, forty-five
mares and tweuty-cight stallions.

I believe the Dwyer Bros. insist that if Miss Woodford
and Freeland are matched the race must take,place in the East,
while Ed. Corrigan just as emphatically says it must take place in
the West. The compromise is likely to be Saratoga, as both stables
are to race there. ‘

I think the Pittsburg Baseball Club is likely to
make a strong bid for the American Associetion championship this
year. Sam Barkley, who has signed to play in Pittsburg, had pre
viously signed a promise to go with the Baltimore Club ifreleased.
and gave a verbal promise to Pittsburg to the same effect.

Von der Ahe, of the St. Louis Browns, was offered
$1.000 by cach club for Barklev's release, and gave him his choice.
Barnie claims he can hold Barkley.

There is every probability that three first-class for-
eign cricket teams will visit the United States next season, From
Australia it is learned that the Australians who are to visit Eng

land in April will return home, as istheir usual custom, via New.

York and San Francisco.

A team of British army and Navy officers stationed
in the West Indies. several of whom took part in the Halif:x cup
match played in this city in 1875, propose making a tour through
the United States and Canada, and the teamof English gentlemen,
headed by E. J. Sanders, have decided to come over again this
year.

‘W.W. Read, the best bat in England ; F. T. Welman,
the amateur wicket-keeper, and A. G. Steel, one of the best all-
round players in the world will probably accompany them.

I have been informed that the cost of the Boston
yacht Puritan to the syndicate of gentlemen that built her was
about $27,500. This sum includes the building and ‘sailing of the
yacht, from the time her Keel was stretched until she was laid up at
Beverly Bridge, Mass.

A short time ago a requisition was made upon the
New York Yacht Club by the Secretary of the Navy fur the models
of the vachts Puritan and Genesta, which were in the possession of
the club. ; :

The models have been examined and returned to the
club by the United States naval experts, and no dout but these
gentlemen have now some opivion upon tbe question ‘‘Cutter vs.
sloop.”

Every turfman is well aware that Ed. Corrigan is
the owner of several great race horses. and one of inis best is Free-
land. One would suppose from the weekly budget of challenges
Corrigan issucs, thathe is just as proud of notoriety as his race
horses. i

Three and four times a month he makes the an-
nouncement that he will match Freeland to run Miss Woodford,
the Queen of the turf.owned by the Dwyer Brothers.

Corrigan is very careful about stipulating in his chal-
lenge that the race must be run in the West, when he is well
aware that the Dwyers are not going to run their great flyers in
the West.

If Corrigin’s semi-monthly challenge was worded
to run oa any track in the East, I would have an idea that the
great western turfman was in earnest, and until he makes that
specification in his defi, I shall look upon the long interviews and
challenges as merely buncombe.

If the Lorillard of the West, as Corrigan is styled,
ani I don't know why, is eager to arrange a race to run at Sheeps
head Bay, the Dwyers will arrange a race for as much money ag
Corrigan wants to gamble if he will allow the Dwyers to name the
distance.

Freeland is, or was during 1885, a great race horse,
but he had slightly the best of every race he arranged, and one, I
am certain, was won before it was run.

Freeland may go through another racing campaign
but I think it is very doubtful, tor expect to see him break down
the first race he runs, because I think he has had too much
running.

In the “Daily News,’ New York, Jan. 12, I found
the following . ‘‘The Dwyer Brothers will run Miss Woodford, the
queen of the running turf against Freeland, on Sheepshead Bay
track, for $5,000 a side, but under no circumstances will they go
West.”

This is business, let Corrigan put up or shut np.

In my time I have seen all the great pigeon shooters
this country ever produced. I witnessed Wm. Leeds, the Jersey
Boy, shoot,against John Tayler for the championship.

Witnessed Ira Paine beat Bogardus. and Miles John-
son win the great open-to all swcep at Providence, R. I., and beat
all the cracks.

I knew Capt. James Ward, the one-armed champion
of Canada, and witnessed his matches in this country against Ira
A. Paine, Edward Tinker, of Providence, and A. H. Bogardus, but
of all the great shots. Wm. Graham, of England. who was beaten by
two birds in 100 by Dr. F. W. Carver in England, is the best I have
vet came across.

I learned that he intended to attempt to kill 35
pigeons out of 5) with one hand, ee at 27 yards’ rise, from
five traps at Erb’s crounds, near Newark, N. J.. on Jan. 13, and I
journeyed to witness the affair.

The five traps were ‘placed five yards apart, and the
birds were nearly all strong flyers. Graham shot with a hammer
less gun, weight about eight pounds, and the birds were trapped
by Erb and his dog found them.

Graham not only killed the 35 out of 59, but killed 37.
He knocked over ay outgoing driver that went from the trap like a
eky-rocket at nearly 60 yards’ rise.

He surprised nearly all the talent and, among them

Doc Applegate, Miles Johnson ant other wing shots, who were con-
fident that he gould have killed 40 out of 50 ifhe had wanted to do

By the way, Graham has come over here hunting for
the championship. He will shoot against any man in America for
blood, 100 birds, 30 yards rise, Hurlingham rules, and any one who
desires to arrange a match can send ov a deposit and a match will
be arranged.

ee, ieee

Where are Carver and Bogardus? Graham is treading
on their corus.

T learn that Green Morris has purchased what will,
barring accidents, be another r pret tace- horse.

On Jan.13 he purchased from Frank B. Harper Er-
mine, a bay filly. two years old, by Ten Broeck, dam Sallie M.,

Ermine is a full sister to Bersan. Morris has also
bought Con Cregan, a three-year-old, who is entered iu many val-
uable stakes, for $5,000

Con Cregan is a three-year-old and full brother to
Drake Carter. It is needless te state that both Morris’ new pur:
chases will win brackets during 1886.

I understand Gus Lambert, the Canadian Hercules
and famous all-round athlete, has a wonder in the lifting line, and
his name is Louis Cyr.

Lambert proposes to match him to put up a dumb-bell
against any man in America.

The man putting up the heaviest to win th@$100.
It is claimed Cyr elevates a 210 pound bell. If he can accomplish
the feat he can beat the record.

Dick Pennell, the strong man, should make a trip to
Montreal and do a lifting act with Cyr.

ate

Pennell has put up the biggest dumb-bell I have ever
seeu mid air. I refer to the time he lifted *he 20i-pound bell at
Wood's gymnasium, in this city.

No one has up to date ever equalled, let alone super-

seded, Pennell's performance.

I see that Charles E. Courtney, the oarsman, is per-
forming in rinks, in company with Wallacc Ross, on a new style
of rowing machine. Itisin the shap: of a boat and travels on
wheels, and when both try to win the race proves very interesting.

By the way, Wallace Ross intends to row Matterson.

I am informed Matterzon will be in England in
April, and that he will not only be ready to meet the plucky encr-
getic New Brunswick oarsman. but any oarsman the United States
or Canadacau produce.

I am certain that the struggle for the League base-
ball pennant of 1886, will be a renewal of the old battle fought on
the diamond in 1885 with Chicago and New York struggling nip
and tuck for the trophy at the end of the season.

s* an

The Detroits are well in the race, and no matter
whether they succeed in beating New York and Chicago, I am
certain they will have a much higher rating than they had in 1885.

I understand four of the leading ministers in Brook-
lyn are cyclists. Rev. Henry Ward Beecher and Rev. George R.

andewater ride tricycles. Rev. George R. Peutacost and Rev.
er. W. Davis ride bicycles. é

I believe there is a bill before the Indiana legislature
to prevent all Sunday amusements. If it is passed there will be
no more Sunday baseball in that State.

What is the country coming to.

ate

I think that the sporting public must grow weary
of so much gasconade about John L. Sullivan and Paddy Ryan
going to meet in the orthodox 24-foot ring.

a*-an

Every one knows Sullivan has plenty of funds and a
champion‘belt (preseuted by Richard K. Fox) to contend for any
time he is ready to meet any challenger, no matter whether he is a
Trojan or hails from Merrie England.

Again everybody is aware that Sullivan is ready at
all times to meet any ambitious aspirant for fistic fame with gloves
in the magic circle, so that if a match is proposed or he is chal-
lenged and a match not ratified no one can lay the blame to his
door.

On the other hand, Ryan lacks men behind him who
will put up their money.

He has backers, it is said, but they are not the right
kind, because they refuse to furnish the ex-champion, who may be
willing to meet Sullivan, with the sinews of war, and Ryan is thus
made acatspaw to boom up the business of some speculating sa-
loon-keeper.

By the way, I read in the Chicago papers that Chas.
E. Davies, better known as the Parson. announces that he has a
purse of $2,500 and a diamond belt (which will be presented by the
donor) ready to put up any time Ryan and Sullivan agree to ar-
range a meeting.

I think if these gladiators want the opportunity to

again settle the question of supremacy this is their opportunity.

Every one knows that Charles E. Davies will bring
the match off. Sullivan is willing, and all that remains is for Ryan
to sce that he is willing to meet his conqueror.

1 understand the Executive Coinmittee of the Na-
tiona! Association of Amateur oarsmen wet at New York on Jan. 9
and resolved to disqualify as an amateur oarsman Frank J. Mum
ford, of the Perseverence Boat Club, of New Orleans, La.

There were numerous charges brought against Mum-
ford, the principal oues being that at a race in Philadelphia on
July 9, 1880, he made a dcal for a money consideration with one’
competitor to withdraw, and with another tu make intentional
fouls, thus winning the race easily. Again, at the annual regatta
at Washington on Aug. 1, 1884, he lost a race under suspicious
circumstances, having pretended to break the slide in his boat.

I understand it was alleged, through a friend, he bet
large sums of money against himself in ths race. Mumford had
several times been summoned to present himself before the com-
mittee, but had always failed to appear. On Saturday, however,
Johu Fitzpatrick, President of the Perseverence Club, appeared in
his favor. and, after hearing him, the committee at once decided
to di-qualify Mr. Mumford. Rule 15 was altered so as to give the
referee power to order a race rowed over when any contestant
suffers from outside interference

The St. Louis Americans have been notified to as-
semble in that city on March 1. They will take a month’s practice
in the gymnasium, and then play exhibition games with the Lucas
League team until the championship season opens.

President Soden said the other day that he was per-
fectly willing that several of the stockholders should see the books
of the Association, but he does not intend ta open them to the view
of Tom, Dick and Harry.

Briody will make a good catcherfor some club. Man-
ager Schmeltz sava that McCormick's old back-stop will pot play
with St. Louis next season.

I understand George Bradley no longer depends on

his income from ball playing. He is putting up groceries in @ store

in Newport, Ky.

TO CORRESPONDENTS.

TO NEWS AGENTS, POSTMASTERS, ETC.

Iwill give a liberal discount and furnish sample copies and
advertising matter free to all news agents, postmasters and others
who will make a personal canvass of their districts for the Po.ice
Gazette, the greatest sporting and sensational illustrated news-
paper in the world. Send for full particulars to

RICHARD K. FOX, Publisher, Franklin Square, New York.

P. S., Pittsburg.—No.

B. 8. H., Toledo.—Sixes.

S. B., Detroit. Mich.—No.

S. B.. Biddeford, Me.—No.

S. G., Rochester, N. Y.—No.

B. J., Norton Mills. Vt.— Yes.

H. B., Watertown, N. Y.—No.

Sampo, Charleston, S. C.—No.

W. G., Hartford, Conn.—A wins.

D. L., Providence, B. I.—A wins.

W. A. McK., Santa Fe, N. M.—Yes.

W. G. K., Pleasant Hill, Mo.—The left foot.

D. J., Albany; N. ¥.—Sixes are the highest.

J. W. L., Alton, Pa.—We don't know of any.

S. G., Rawlins.—You cannot build off the table.

W.H., Harrisburg, Pa.—Johu Wesley Cozad is dead.

L. M. Milwaukee, Wis.—Billiard cues were first used in 1820.

E. A., Brooklyn, N. ¥Y.—We cannot give the ages of actresses.
¢ M. H., Racine, Wis.—There is no record for the age you men-
tion. ,

C. F.. St. Joseph, La.—Paddy Ryan defeated Joe Goss, June 1

G. O., Troy, N. Y.—There is no such law in force in New York
State. :

J. W., Selma, Ala.—The cards must be dea't over again by your
opponent.

J. G., Avoca, lowa.—Send ena forfeit and we will publish your
challenge. e

D. M., Brownsville, Texas.—Yankee Sullivan came to this coun:

P.8S., Henderson, Ky.—1. Send for the ‘Life of Hanlan” to this
office. 2. No. .

B. B.—John Morrissey did not dic on his way to Saratoga. He
died in this city.

P, E., Hartford, Conn.—1. I¢ is out of print. 2. Five feet nine
and a half inches.

R. O., Austin, Tex.—Johnny McGlade, the pugilist, was killed in
San Franciso, Cal.

H. M., Rahway, N. J.—Jobn C. Heenan’s father’s name was
Timothy. A wins.

A. C. Hocan, New York City.—Heygster, the Oak of the Rhine,
weighs 315 pounds.

N.0O., Ottawa, Can.—You are mistaken; Barney Aaron never
fought Billy Edwards.

C. A. P., Livonia, N. Y.—John L. Sullivan was born at Boston,

E. 8S. D.. Douglass, lowa.—We cannot furnish you with the in-
formation you require.

B. R., Islip, L. I.—1.‘Graham, the English wing shot, uses,
Schultze powder. 2. No.

J.H. B., Shabbona, I1l.—We know nothing of the professional
ability of the party named.

H. W., Rondout, N. Y.—It was Jim McGurran that was snauind
to fight Patsy Evans. 2. No.

D. G., Germantown Junction.—There were two referees when
Heenan and Morrissey fought.

W.S., Williamsburgh, N. Y.—Vandalite was the first horse that
won the Breckenbridge stakes. ri

S. B., Rochester. N. Y.—1. Yes. 2. No. 3. Hanlan was born in
Toronto, Canada, July 12. 1855.

D. G., Jersey City. —John Morrissey stood 5 feet 113{ inches in
height and weighed 173 pounds.

T. E., Elizabeth, N. J.—Joe Coburn was born .in Middletown,
Ceunty Armagh, Ireland. July 20. 1835.

Hawkeye, Altoona, lowa.—Sullivan and Ryan fought 9- rounds
at Mississippi City, Miss . Feb. 7, 1882.

w. S8., Auburn, N. ¥.—The five fingers or the five-spot of
trumps is always the best card in forty-fives.

Q. E., Port Jervis, New York.—Silvio, the winner of the Derby
in 1877, was sold to a French nobleman for $35,000.

.E. A., Camden, N. J.—No. The fastest time 100 yards was ever
run is 9% seconds, by George Seward, in England.

B. C., Maneton Park, Col.—Joe Wormald and Ned O’Baldwin,
the Irish giant, fought on Oct. 29, 1868, at Lynnfield, Maas.

M. E., Boston, Mass. -!. No. ;2. John Morrissey did not leave
afortune. 3. You will have toabide by the referee's decision.

M. P., Burlington, Vt.—1. Ed. S. Price was born at London,
Eng., in 1832. 2. A man born fm Wales is an English subject.

E. N., Rutland, Vt.—Bennett (Deerfvot) has the best record for
10 miles, 51 minutes 26 seconds, made in England, April 3, 1863.

W. C., Allentown, Pa.—It is too soon to select winners of the
Louisville cup, Blue Ribbon and the Derby. 2. Pierre Lorillard.

H. 8., Bangor, Me.—1. Goldsmith Maid trotted a mile, Mystic
Park, Boston, in harness, with running mate, Sept. 2, 1874, in 2:14.

W.S., Washington.—B wins. Barney Aaron's first fight with
Sam Collyer was at Pohick !.anding, and the second at Acquia
Creck.

G. A., Melrose, N. ¥.—1. Ben Hogan's (the pugilist) right namc
is Benedial Hagan. 2. He was born in Wurtemburg, Germany,

L. E., West Point, N. ¥.—Crib and Pilot, the fighting dogs, are
both imported from England. Pilot's fighting weight is 27%
pousds.

H. K., Fayette, Mich.—Jem Belcher, the English pugilist, was
boro in Bristol, Eng., Feb. 24, 1761; died at London, Eng., on July

O. W., Estelline, Dak.—The work you name has been legally de-
clared obscene literature, and consequently cannot be bought in
this city.

G: 8., Washington, D. C.—1. The handler must catch the dog
when heturns directly around. 2. Dogs must scratch alternately
or in turn. :

B. D.. Portsmouth, N. H.—1. Bill Poole was not a prize fighter.
2. James Weeden, the Pittsburg pugilist, was born May 10, 1850, at
Kendal, Eng.

G. F., Bangor, Me.—On June 10, 1862, Jacko killed 200 rats in 14
minutes 37 seconds, and the time has never been beaten in England
or this country.

H. S., Buffalo, N. ¥.—Falsetto won the Travers stakes. at Sara-
toga, N. Y:, July 19, 1879. Thedistance is 1% ml.es. 2. Falsettos

J. F., Bates County. Ala.—1. Ten Broeck’s 1-mile time, 1 minute
39% seconds, isthe best on record. 2. Billy Edwards did beat Sam
Collyer three times.

G. A., Woodhill, Il!.—1- Yes. 2. The longest standing jump on
record is 14 feet 5% inches, made by G. W. Hamilton on Oct. 3,
1879, at Romeo, Mich.

R. M., Algiers, La.—1. Jim Dunn, of Brooklyn, and Bill Davis
fought on May 16, 1865, in Canada. 2. Dunn won in 43 rounds,
lasting 1 hour 6 minutes.

D. 8.. Holyoke, Mass.—1. No. 2. George Godfrey, the colored
boxer of Boston, was paid $45 to box for the ‘Police Gazette’
Colored Champion Mcdal in 1882.

J. C., Mobile, Ala.—James Hamill, of Pittsburg, Pa., died at the
Smoky City on Jan. 10, 1876. He was beaten twice in England by
Harry Kelly, champion of England.

Constant Reaper, East St. Louis, Ili.—John L. Sullivan was
born in Boston, Mass., Oct. 15, 1853.

J.°R., Germantown, P2.—The best record for three standing
jumps is 39 feet 11 inches, made by G. Hamilton, of Fredunia, N.

“HL H., Kansas City.—Mike Cleary did challenge Mike Donovan,
but the latter claimed that Cleary was only a pupil, and he did not
care to fighta pugilist with no reputation.

R. R.. Bellefonte, Pa.—O' Leary won the Astley belt first. Rowell
next, then Weston captured the trophy. Rowell then won it twice
tn succession. which made it his property.

M.H., New York City.—!. Hammer Lane and Homer Lane are
two different persons. 2. Jim (Yankee) Sullivan beat Hammer
Lene os Fob. 3, 1841, in 34 minutes, 19 rounds.

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. on

P. J., Janesville. Wis.—Yankee Sullivan defeated Vince Ham-
mond, Tom Secor, Prof. Ball and Bob Cauut, and was beaten by
Tom Hyer and John Morrissey in this country.

J.J., Newport, Ky.—On Nov. 14. 188], Joseph Dion won the first
prize in the cushion carom billiard tournament. He won 7 games
and received first prize, $1,000, and champion badge.

C. H., Waterbury, Conn.—1. Hanlan rows in a shell of which the
dimensions are as follows: Length, 31 feet, 11 inches beam and
5% inches deep. and when fully rigged weighs but 25 pounds.

W.J., Pittsbuug, Pa.—1. You have dates mixed up. Boss Har-
rington fought Andy McLane on June 4, 1832, and in 1859 he fought
Johnny McLane. 2. Harrington was born in New York in 1803.

A. C., Savannah, Ga.—Joe Phelan, of Baltimore, and Clint
James, of Washington, D. C., seconded Sam Collyer when he fought
Mike Carr, better known as ‘English,’ near Baltimore, March 16,

T. R., Youngstown, O.—1. He died of consumption in Trenton.
N.J., State Prison. 2. The best running jump with artificial aid

is 29 feet 7 inches, made by John Howard,-at Chester, Eng., May

met they fought for $1,000 a side, at a point opposite the Jefferson
Barracks. 2. Val. McAimey was referee and decided in favor of
NcCoole.

J. H., Chicago.—All the baseball averages and scores made bv
the League and American Association during 1885 are in the
‘Sporting Man‘’s Companion.” Send 25 cents to this office and we
will mail you the book.

G. D., Natick, Mass.—Directly after Tommy Chandler whipped
Dooney Harris, in their match for $5,000, at Point Isabel, Cal., April
13, 1667, he stood referee for McEvoy aud Tom McElroy, who fought
108 rounds in 1 hour 43 minutes.

J. H., Toronto.—Warren E. Smith was born at Sambro, Nova
Scotia, in 1855. He stands 5 fect 11 inches, and weighs 170 pounds
when trained. Smith is a member of the Halifax Rowing Associa
tion and rowed in England and this country.

J. 8., Elkhart, I1l.—1. According the ‘Life of Bill Poole,": he was
shot on Feb. 24, 1855, died March 8, 1855, and was buried on the
loth of March. 2. It was Ned O’Baldwin who was shot on Sept.

M.M., Worcester, Mass.—The frst time Mace and Goss fought,
Mace weighed 149 pounds, Goss 148 pounds. The sccond time they
fought, Mace weighed 162 pounds, Goss 161 pounds. The third
time they they fought, Mace weighed 168 pounds, Goss 158 pounds

R. E. E., Medicine Hat,N. W. Tv.—Ned O'Baldwin was fatally
shot, in his saloon in West street, New York. by Michacl Finnell.
his rartner, on Sept. 27, 1875. He died in New York city. Sept.
29, 1875, and was buried iu Holyhood Cemetery, Brookline, Mass.

S.H., Rich Hill, Mo.—1. Yes. 2. James Fell, champion of Can
ada, and Tom Kinuard, of Grand Rapids, fought for a purse of $500
and gate money. at Edmore, Mich., on Jan. 7. Kinnard wcighed 204
pounds and Fell only 164. In the @fth round Fcll knocked Kinnard
out.

G. R., Chelsea, Mass.—1. Mike Donovan and Prof. Wm. C. Mc-
Clellau never fought a regular prize fight. 2. They fought three
times with gloves. McClellan won the first battle, Donovan the
second, both of which were fought in New York. 3. No. 4. The
third battle was fought at San Francisco, Cal.

J.D., Negaunee, Mich..-1. You are correct. 2. 1n a game of
ting the first object-ball and before hitting the second, or must strike
a cushion before hitting either object-ball, or after hitting both
balls directly must strike a cushion and return to one of the balls.

8. G., Bridgeport. Conn.—Patrick J. Fitzgerald was born at
Hill o° Listuff, County Longford, Ireland, Dec. 5, 1846, stands 5
fect 10% inches in height, and his weight in condition is 165
pounds. He was brought across the Atlantic by his parents when
he was a mere child. they making their home in Montreal, Canada.

8. W-. Hopkinsviile, Ky.—1. Thomas Lynch defeated Duncan C.
Ross in a series of contests for the general athletic championship
of America at Jones’ Woods, N. Y., Aug. 15, 1878. 2. Thomas
Lynch and Capt. James C. Daly defeated Johnson and Duncan C.
Ross at Boston. Aug. 16, 1880, in a series of contests for the general
athletic championship.

J. W. M.; Harrisburg. Pa.—The officers for the Schuylkill Navy
for 1886, recently elected, are : Commodore, Harvey K. Hinchman,
Crescent Boat Cinb ; vice commodore, Louis C. Madeira, Jr., Phil-
adelphia Barge Club ; secretary, Harry W. Fieischmann, Quaker
City Barge Club; treasurer, W. Carey Brown. Crescent Boat Club.
and log-keeper, H. J. B. Phillips, West Philadelphia Boat Club.

J. W., Seymour, Ind.—1. Joe Coburn beat Mike McCoole at
Charlestown, Maryland, May 5, 1863. Sixty-seven rounds were
fought. 2. Joe Coburn and Mike McCoole met at Chicago on Nov.
18, 1867, and signcd articles to fight for $5,000 a side,on May
27, 1868. The ring was pitched near Cold Spring, Ind. Coburn
was in no conijition to mcect the burly McCoole, and he was arrested
by W. F. Woods. chief of the Secret Service, and E. L. Quinten, a
detective under him, and taken to Lawrence County (Ohio) jail.

Sport, Leavenworth.—1. No. 2. Harry Sellers became cham-
pion of England by Peter Corcoran allowing hii to win the fight
for the championship of England in 1776. He defeated Joe Hood
for £50—§250, at Ascot races, June 4, 1777; in turn he was beaten
by Duggan Ferns, Jack Harris, and Harvey, an Irishman. Sellers
was one of the get down pugilists, possessed some strength, but
was never thought much of owing to the above reprehensible
pragtice, he seemed tohave becn a quarrelsome fellow, and after
his battle with Harvey, quick sunk into oblivion.

A McD., Malvern, Iowa.—Dan Mendoza’s record in the prize ring
is as follows: Beat Harry, the Coal Heaver, in 40 rounds, lasting !
hour 58 minutes, at Mile End, 1784; beat Sam Martin in 20 minutes,
at Barnet, April 17, 1787; beaten by Dick Humphries, turn up at
-Epping, Sept. 9, 1787; beaten by Dick Humphries in 29 minutes,
Odiham, Jan. 9, 1788; beat Dick Humphries, 65 rounds, in 1 hour
10 minutes, at Stilton Haunts, May 6, 1789; beat Humphries in 72
rounds, lasting 1 hour 13 miuutes at Dorcaster, Sept. 29, 1790;
beat Squire Fitzgerald in 26 minutes, at Dublin, Aug. 2, 1791; beat
Bill Warr in 23 rounds, Smitham Bottom, May 14, 1792; beat Bill
- Warr in 17 minutes, Bexley Heath, Nov. 12, 1794; beaten by John
Johnson in 1034 minutes, at Horn Chufch, April 15, 1795; beat
Harry.Lee in 53 rounds, lasting 1 hour 10 minutes, near Bromley,
March 21, 1806; beaten. by Tom Owens, 12 rounds, 15 minutes,
Banstead Downs, July 4, 1820. 2. Harry Allen died at Manchester,

8. G., Baltimore, ma. —The following is a list ofthe winnners of
the English t pi hips in 1885: 100-vard run—J. M.
Cowie, 10 2-5 seconds; Quarter-mile—L. E. Myers, 52 2-5 seconds :
putting the weight—D. M. McKinnon, of Scottish F.C., 43 feet
4% inch; 7-mile walking—J. Jarvis, Liverpool Athletic Club, 56
minutes 10 3-5 seconds; running high yump—P. J. Kelly, French
College A. A., Dublin, 5 feet 11 inches ; 120-vard hurdle race—C.
F. Daft, Noll's Forest F. C.. 16 3-45 seconds; 1 mile run—W.
Snook, Birchfield Harriers, 4 minutes, 44 seconds ; throwing .116-
pound hammer, W. J. M. Barry, Queen's College A. C., Cork, Ire-
land, 108 feet. 10% inches; 4-mile run—W. Snook. B. H.. 21 min-
utes, 51 4-5 seconds; half-mile run—L. E. Myers, Manhattan A.
C., first, 2 minutes, 1 second , pole yump—T. Ray, Ulverston A. C.,
10 feet; running long jump—J. Purcell, Dublin A. C., 21 feet 10%
inches; two-mile steeplechase—W. Snook, K. H., 1! minutes 384
seconds ; 10-mile run—Wm. Snook, 53 minutes 25 1-5 seconds.

S. B. Cleveland. O.—1. No. 2. Charley Gallagher, the pugilist,
was beaten by Bill Davis, of Califormia, at Fighting Island, De-
troit. on Oct. 5, 1867, in 45 rounds. Gallagher‘fought Jimmy Elli
ott, pear Detroit, on Nov. 12, 1868. Twenty-three rounds were
fought in 1 hour 17 minutes, when Gallagher left the ring because
Elliott was biting and gouging. Gallagher beat Tom Allenon Feb.
23, 1869, for $2.000 and the championship of America, in 2 rounds,
jasting 3 minutes. He beat Jack Curley, at Carrollton, La., o
February, 1869, in \8 rounds, lasting 18 minutes. He fought adraw
with Tom Allen, at Foster Island, St. Louis, for $2,000 and the
championship, on Aung. 17, 1869
Tom Kelly, Gallagher's second, by a previous arrangement, threw
up the sponge in the twelfth round from Gallagher's corner. Allen
supposed he had won, and extended his hand and offered to shake
hands with his supposed conquered foe. when Gallagher struck
him. A general row followed and Allen left the ring, and the ref-
eree decided, the battle a draw, after trying to award the stakes to
Gallagher.

F.L. M,. Los Angelos, Cal.
toilet articles.

G. W., Winnebargo, Minn.—Such photos as you name cannot
be bought, and would not be advertised in these columns at any
price.

—Consult the advertisements under

Do not forget that any person who is unable to buy this paper in
their town can have it forwarded direct from this office at the rose

ef $1.00 for three monthe.

D. A,, Baltimore, Md.—1. The first time McCoole and Allen -

cushion carroms the cue ball must either strike a cushion after hit- .

Allen had the fight won, when _

PD oe etigsrack BAe

wee, Rew

acon Aili Eee teenie

viens Seems Met

joe seni AN edhe

fer ae 2
anaeercnaanenetnamerenne

SNS

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

x ts PAN

ill

’ n nil

| t Hy
WAU
5 : i t HHI NW fly . vi iit ne
ae We Wi , N ui
- y i ! Mjyy Th WN AI : : Wl
-F = : j lly Ht Set Wit i

a L fg 1} : Bise i] HHI
‘= mi ahigs t Pe
1: S WAM , ANN 1 \{ Pyylty A
SS vis ay a :
i ; ‘ SSS 1, RB Ais Tilt

| itil \

ta. SD a eg ea te
nf anf

| ART
BT |, WANA

ASN |

LAWFUL SLAUGHTER. THEY DROVE HER CRAZY.

THE WILD OUTBREAK OF A YOUNG WOMAN IN A SALVATION ABMY MEETING AT WOOSTER, OHIO.
NFISUATED CHAMPION GAME FOWL.
THE FOLICE OF SALEM, MASS., KILL A NUMBER OF OO.

sie Sonepat nT
reese - oe - Tv - caai i T TTT , TT
TUTTI ETUC Aetna styes se TE ctl!
I | IKI i ut | ’ ype y Hay th ve

Asin tt
Pa in

Ail
ARAN iti
WU a
Tiel ey)

a , 6 IN itt

iz bp ae .

A FOOL'S END.
CLOWES OF CHICAGQ PERISHES IGNOMINIOUSLY IN CARRIE WATSON’S NOTORIOUS BAGNIO IN CHICAGO, ILL.

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. 13

SARS To ~—

THE CHAMPION HOSE COMPANY OF SEATTLE, WASHINGTON TERRITORY.
The Champion Hose Co. of Seattle, Wash. Ter. John MoAuliffe.

We publish this week a group portrait of the| We publish this week a portrait ot J. Me-
champion Hose Co. of Seattle, Wash. Ter. Auliffe, champion light-weight pugilist.

JACK Focarty,

THE WELL-KNOWN AND GALLANT FUGILIST OF
PHILADELPHIA.
William Graham. .

In this issue we publish a portrait of Wm.
Graham, of Beeston, England, the champion
wing shot of the world. Graham is now in
this country ready to shoota match against
W. F. Carver or any man in the world, at 100
single birds, Hurlingham rules, for $1,000 to
$5,000; Richard K. Fox'to be final stakeholder
‘und appoint the referee.

Ooo

Jack Fogarty.

In this issue we publish a portrait of Jack
Fogarty, of Philadetphia, the 150-pound pugilist
Arthur Chambers is so eager to. match to meet
Jack Dempsey in a match for $1,000 a side and
the middle- weight championship.

CaaRces ELLInGswoRTH,

WILLIAM GRAHAM, THE FAMOUS AND POPULAR YOUNG AMATEUR

THE CHAMPION AMATEUR WING-SHOT OF GREAT BRITAIN, BOXER,

JoHn McAULIEFE,

THE WELL-KNOWN CHAMPION LIGHT-WEIGHT
PUGILIST,

Charley Ellingsworth.

In this issue we publish a portrait of Charley
Ellingsworth, famous amateur boxer. Ellifgs-
worth is a member of the Pastime Athletic
C)ub, is very expert at boxing and has been
victorious in numerous contests.

Pwo
oes

CANADA continues to admit American bank
eashiers free of duty, but the fellow from
Rochester, New Hampshire, who got there the
other day and suddenly found out that he had
left. the satchel behind containing the $200,000
be had stolen feels fresher than the Montana
cold wave that only recently froze the mer-
cury in all well-regulated Montana thermom-
eters.

J. DEMISTER,

THE CHAMPION BLINDFOLD CHECKER PLAYER
OF THE UNITED STATES,

sa eben te

Bee

ee ee

sore EF

aoe. ¥

Oe a ee a ee eg

ee Ce Nf

NAR al oc nee tN

14 THE NATIONAL

“ON THE ROAD.”

Life Traveling on the Steel Tracks--
Among the Railroaders and Com-
mercial Drummers, Etc., Etc.

Jacob Snell is the largest weight that shakes
the nimble drummer by the hand on the road.
He drops the scale to no less than 450 pounds. He has
a heert almost as large as his body and every travel-
ing man smiles with the prospects of good living
when he stops at the Snell House, at Fonda, N. Y..
and looks upon thé genial, rounJest face that pre-
sides over the comfortable hostelry. Brother Snell's
weight has also been telt among his fellow townsmen,
who have made him sberiff of tbe county in which he
lives,

Harry Morris, of Baltimore, is looking
bright and happy with his choice collection of artificial
flowers.

The boys are going to make a hot fight
in Washington against the unjust tax racket played
on them by local officials.

Sam Gans, of Washington, D. C., is on the
road again for some strange reason. The tair ones ut
the capitol are very unhappy in his absence.

Joe Howard, the clever Hebrew imper-
sonator, is buyiug Buffalo hides for a Chicago firm.
Forty degrees below zero 1s not too cold for Joe.

Broker King, of Patterson & Co., is de-
lighted at the prominence given bis genial partner in
this column last week. Several bottles have been
smashed on the head of It.

The railroad mail clerks have made an
appeal to the House Post Office Committee in favor of

a proposition to fix their salaries‘at $1,400 and $1,200 per

The vice-president of the Eriesays: ‘‘We
are workiug in with the wealthier corporations, and
whatever the New York CentralLand the Pennsylva-

* nia companies advise we will adopt. We expect to

meet the Baltimore and Ohio passenger cut, but the
ticket business is unlDportant as compared with
freights. The uew pool agreement, with a reduction
in passenger rates, will go into effect soon.” ;

A box car on the J., M. and I. Road, Co-
luipbus, Tnd.. Jan. 19, which had some loose grain
scatiered on the floor, was invaded by a flock of goats
(between twenty-five and thirty), and some of the
boys closed the door, and the box was tiken out to In-
dianapolis “empty,” as was supposed. When arriving
at Indianapolis one of the vrakemen inp the yard
opened the car door, when the billygoats jumped out
one after another, scattering in every direction. The
crew engaged in a chase of four hours, catching fif-
teen of them, supposing they had been shipped as
freight. ‘They then went to hunt the agent to see the
waybill, and see how many goats had been shipped,
when they discovered the joke,

George Brown, an attorney of Decatur,
TIL, isthe plaintiff? in a curious damage suit now on
trial in the Circuit Court. The defendants are the
Chicago, St. Louis and Pittsburg Railway and the Pall-
man CarCumpany and the action is to recover $50,000,
growing outcf theiralleged negligence. Brown's wife
died in May last and the body was sent to Zanesville,
Ohio, by way of Indianapolis, accompanied by Mr.
Brown and other relatives. I[n’some manner the corpse
was put off at Indianapolis, the relatives going on
through to Columbus. The corpse remained twelve
hours and when it finally arrived at its destination
was ina bad state. The time ot tne burial bad to be
changed and friends could not look at the remains,
The defendants claimed that they performed their
duties and sre not gu‘ity of negligence.

An aged farmer from Bullitt county, Ky.,
namecd Henry Logstoue, wiile traveling op the Short
Line Railroad last week, from Louisville to Cinein-
naul, was made the victim of an old swindle, conducted
by a young sharper whose name could not be ascer-
tained. When nearnng Covington, the young man,
whose neat dress and cultivated tanner attracted the
attention of the farmer, suduenly arose in his seat, and
hastily running through his pockets, exclammed that
he had lost his pocketbook. He remarked to Logstone
that the loss of the money would temporarily place
him in # very uncomfortable position, as be was en-
gaged largely in manufacturing wooden wares in St.
Louis and was on a tour of inspection among the dif-
ferent manufactories. He stated that his firm was a
wealthy one, and Known extensively throughout the
country. Proceeding further with his smooth talk,
the young man finally asked the ‘favor of a loan of $0,
at the same time apologizing for his seeming imperu-
nence, but pleading the necessity and urgency of the
case. wogstone wes only too glad to favor a manutae-
turer in high standing. remarking that all business
men who bad ever seen anything of the world must
bave been placed ina like predicament at some time

could be obtaiued earlier.

or other. The sharper passed over his card. gave the
farmer a hearty shake of the band, and said that he
would send the money to his address at bis earliest
convenience. He got off at Covington, and disap-
peared.

A CHINESE MURDERER.

(Subjeci of Ilustration. ]

Jesse C. Wickersham and his wile, prominent resi-
dents of Cloverdale county, Col., were found mnurdered
Jan. 24. All the wounds were inflicted by a shotgun.
Strong circumstantial evidence points to a Chinese
cook, Ab Kai,employed by the couple, who has dis@p-
peared, The murder was evidently committed on
Monday night. It is believed the Chinaman took aif
early train oo Tuesday at Cloverdale for San Francis-
co, and embarked on tbe steamer Rio de Janeiro,
which sailed from there for Hong Kong op Wednes-
day. The discovery of the crime was made on Thurs-
aay, but, owing to the bad condition of the roads.
caused by the recent storm, no reliable intormation

voy?

Last week we asked you to wateh this —
ow, if you will write to Hallett & Co., Po

and, Maine, you will receive, free, full particu
iars about work that either sex, young or old
can do, at a profit of from $5 to $25 per da
snd upwards, and live at home. Ali can do
ork. Capital not required ; Hallett & Co.,
tart you. Grand success absolutely
Write atonce and see.

—OvCy

BOOKS THAT EVERY ONE SHOULD READ.
Glimpses of Gotham, or, New York by Daylight and
alter Dark. ~
Man Traps ot New York. A Full Expose of the Met-
ropolitan Swindler.
New York by Day and Night. A Continuation of
Glimpses of Gotham.
New York Tombs; its Secrets, Romances, Crimes and
Mysteries.
Mysteries of New York Unveiled. One of the most
exciting books ever published.
Paris by Gasligbt. The Gay Life of the Gayest City in
the World. :
Paris Inside Out; or, Joe Potts on the Loose. A vivid
story of Parisian life.
Spangied World, or, Life in a Circus: -The romences
and realities of the tanbark circle. : é ;
Secrets of the Stage; or, Ibe Mysteries of the Play-
House Unveiled.
Great Arti-ts of the American Stage. Portraits of the
Actors and Actresses ot America.
James Brothers, the Celebrated Outlaw Brothers.
Their Lives and Adventures,
Billy Leroy, the Colorado Bandit. The King of Amer-
can Highwaymen. ;
Cupid's Crimes; or, ‘The Tragedies ot Love. A history
of criminal romances of passion and jealousy.
Famous Frauds: or, The Sharks of Society. The lives
and adventures of famuus imposters.
Mysteries of Mormnunism. A Full Expose of its Hid-
den Crimes.
Bandits of the West. A Thril-ing Record of Male and
Female Desperadoes. °
Great Crimes and Criminals of America. With 24
superb illustrations :
Slang Dictionary of New York, Londen and Paris.
Compiled by a well-known detective.
Heathen Chinee. His Virtues, Vices and Crimes. An
account of the saffron slaves of Caliiornia,.
Guiteau’s Crime. Full History of tue Murder of Pres-
ident Garfield.
Assassin’s Doom. Sequel to Guiteau's Crime. A his-
tory ot the trial and sentence.
Crime Avenged, Sequel te the Assassin’s Doom. The
punishment of the murderer. z
Esposito. Lives of Brigancs in Europe and America.
The monarchs of the mountains.

Fast Men of America; or Racing with Time from tbe
Cradle to the Grave.

Murderesses of America Heroines in the Red Ro
mance of Crime.

Hush Money: or Murder ip the Air. A romance of
Metropolitan reai life.

Faro Exposed. A Complete Expose of the Great
American Game.

‘Lives of the Poisoners. The Most Fascinating Book
of the Year. ;

ares pemameed: or the Wickedest Place in the

orld.
id by Gaslight; or Atter Dark in Palace and
ovel,

Crimes of the Cranks. Men and Women Who Have
Made Insanity An Excuse.for Murder.

Boycotting. Avenging Ireland’s Wrongs. ‘A true his-
tery of the Irish troubles.

Crooked Life in New York. Sketches ot Criminal
Life in New York.

“Police Gazette’ Annual. A hook of Wit, Humor
and Sensation,

Female Sharpers. Their Haunts and Habits, Their
Wiles and Vices.

Suicide’s Cranks, or the Curiosities of Self-Murder.
Showing the origin of suicide.

Coney Island Frolics. How New York's Gay Girls
and Jolly Boys Enjoy Themselves by the Sea.
Murdered by Lust; cr How Jennie Cramer Lost Her

SPORTING BOOKS.

The American Athlete, a Treatise on the Principles
and Rules of Training.

Champions of the American Prize Ring, Complete
Hisiory and Portraits of all the American Heavy
Weights.

History of the Prize Ring, with Lives of Paddy Ryan

_ and Jokn L. Sullivan.

Lite of Jem Mace, ex-Champion «f Engiand.

* John Mecrrissey, Pugiist,S,. ort and Statesman.

Jobn C, Heenan, with all his Battles.

Tug Wilson, Champion Pugilist of England.

Ed. Hanlan, America’s Champion Oarsman.

Betting Man’s Guide, or How to [pvest in Auction
and Mutual Pools and Combinations.

Any of the above superbly illustrated books mailed
to any address on receipt of 2 cts. Address RICHARD

CURE FOR THE DEAF. ¥
PECK’S PATENT IMPR VED CUSHIONED Ear DRuMS
PERFECTLY RESTORE THE HEARING
And perform tbe work ofthe natural drum. Always in
position, but INVISIBLE TO OTHERS. AND COMFORTA-
BLE TO WEAR. All conversation and even whispers
beard distinctly. We relerto those using them. Send
tor iNustrated book with testimonials, FREE. Address
F. HISCOCK, 853 Broadway, N. Y. Mention this paper.

CONSUMPTION CURED.

An old physician, retired from_ practice, baving had
placed in his hands by an East India missionary the
tormula of a simple vegetable remedy for the speedy
and permanent cure ot Consumption. Bronehius, Ca-
tarrb, Asthma and all Throat and Lung Afféctions,
also a positive and radical cure for Nervous Debility
and all Nervous Complaints, after having tested its
wonderful curative powers in thousands of cases, has
felt it bis duty to make it Known to his suffering tel-
lows. Actuated by this motive and a desire to relieve
human suflering, I will send free of charge, to all who
desire it, this recipe in German, French or English,
with full directions for preparing and using. Sent by
mail by addressing with stamp, naming this paper, W.
A. NOYEs, 149 Power's Block, Rochester, N. Y.

TO ADVERTISERS.
NINETY-FOUR REPLIES IN SIX DAYS.
Office of W. BENJAMIN.

Montclair, N. J., Dealer in Noveities, etc.

Richard K. Fox, Esq. :

DraR SiR—I have received ninety-four cash orders
from the two-line “ad” which you inserted for me in
your lastissue. The POLICE GAZETTE is the best ad-
vertising paper I bave ever used. Yours truly,

W. BENJAMIN.

“TIE SHOP GIRLS OR SALES LADIES OF PARIS,” just
pub®shed, is the striking title of Emiie Zola’s last and
greatest work of French fiction. Price 7icents. Sent
post-paid, on remitting price in a letter to the Pub-
lishers, T. B. Peterson & Brothers, Philadephia, Pa.

POLICE GAZETTE: NEW

YorRK.

TO WEAK MEN
Suffering from Nervous Debility. Early Decay, Loss of
Vitality, weakness of body and mind, etc., I will send
you a vaiuable treatise containing full particulars for
certain restoration to health and manbood, free of
charge. Address PRor F. FOWLER, Muodus, Conn.

Dr. TOBIAS’ CELEBRATED

VENETIAN LINIMENT.

Sold Everywhere.
Pains in the LimBs, BACK or CHEST VANISH IMME-
DIATELY by its use. WARRANTED to give PERFECT
SATISFACTION or No PAY. Price 25 and 50 cents.

TO ADVERTISERS.

Attention is called tothe fact that no new accounts
are opened for advertising, and that cash must in all
cases accompany an order.” Persons who are disap-
pointed because their cards do not appear in this issue
are those who omit to comply with this rule.

ALL Advertising Agencies are forbidden to quote
the P LICE GAZET!SE at less than regular rates, and
notified that orders from them will not de received
unless they exact full rates from advertisers.

Cepy for advertisements must reach this office.by
Tuesday at 1 P. M., in order to insure insertion in fol-
lowing issue.

TO ADVERTISERS.

IMPORTANT TO ADVERTISERS.

As a national advertising medium the POLICE Ga-
ZETTE is unrivaled. :

Subscribers bind the GAZETTE, and the advertising
is so placed that it must be bound in the volume, thus
giving it a permanent value.

Specimen copies mailed upon request. Prompt at-
tention paid to ingniries ind correspondence.

Estimates subintlted upon application.

A trial. as a test of value, is sulicited.

ADVERTISING KATES.

AAC VeErtiSEMeNS. 00... 0... ces esses ssceseses coceeeees 21.00 per line.
Reading Notices...............:0ccccscssesese eeseseces OO ce
Copy for advertisements must he in by Tuesday
noon in order to insure insertion in following issue
The PoLIcE GAZETTE has 16 pages. of 4 columns,
measuring 1434 inches each, and 234 inc.s wide.

ALI AGATE MEASUREMENT. EIGHT WORDS AVER-
AGE A LINE

‘No Discounts Allowed on Large A 'vertisements 01

Time Contracts. ‘
No Extra Charge for Cuts or Display.

During the continuance of an advertisement, the
paper is sent regularly to all advertisers.

Casn should accompany ell orders for transient
business in order to secure prompt attention.

Address al communications

RICHARD K. FOX,
New York

NEW PUBLICATIONS.

he Sporting Man‘s Companion _ will be

issued January, 1886.° It will contain a Theatrical
Almanac, with 365 important events. Winners of the
English Dei by, The Kentucky Derby, The One Thou-
sand aod Two ‘Thousand Guineas, and other famous
races since their commencement, Records of Pedes-
trians, Bicvcle, Snow- Shoe, Baseball, Boat Racing,
Yacbting, Rifle and Shooting Matches, the Jaws of ath-
letics, Rowing. Betting, etc. Fastest Running, Trotting
time? and interesting Prize-Ring Statistics, with por-
traits of famous Actors and Actresses, Oarsmen
Pugilists, Jockeys, etc.. making a* comprehensive an
thorougbly reliable Encyclopedia of Sport. A valuable
Book of reference for 25c. Send in your orders quickly.
Newsdealers should lay in a stock. Mailed tree on
receipt of price by RICHARD K. Fox,
P. O. Box 40, New York City.

A Genuine Old Time French Book

Discounts F.H., nearly 400 pages, profusely illus-
trated, price 4% Transparent Pla ying Cards
(genuine), 31.50a pack. Snide Transparent Cards, 25c.
apuck. *A Modern Eden,” our set of 12 Rare Col-
o1ed Photos, not tame “éopies” or aclressee in tights,
but genuine originals from life,$3. Agents wanted.
Samples free. Expresso:lu. Write the address in
vour book. No postal cdrds answered. W.H. REED.
Detrvit. Mich. P.S.—Will send above set complete—
book, cards and | phutos—$5. Agents only. ;

Important to Jobbers and Peddlers.

We offer for sale for a sbort time an assorted lot of
ILLUSTRATED BOOKS

in job lots. These books ‘are the fastest seJling in
America. Send for circular. RicHakD K. Fox, Box
40. New York Post-oltice.

“The N. Y.Weekly
Huge! Enormous! ,.cbs 3 yweeky
is the largest weekly published. Twelve pages every
week, making 624 pages ina year of sensational ar-
ticles. stories, and matters for backwoodsamen every
week. Only One Dollara year. We will send a
genuine Webster’s Illustrated Practical Dictionary,
1500 illustrations; 634 pages, nearly 700,000 words, ele-
gantly bound, and the “News,” one year. or only $1.50.
Address, N. Y. WEEKLY NEws, P. O, Box 3795, N. Y.

Matrimonial Paper!

RICHLY ILLUSTRATED.

Each number contains nearly 200
adverti-ements of ladies and gentle-
men wanting correspondents.

Sample copy 10c silver. Address,
HEART AND HAND, Chicago,
Ill. Name this paper.

“Chicago After Dark,” 50c.: “Trish Mollie,
60c. ; “Vices of London.” 15c.; all_the above books,
securely wranee , post oaid, $2.00. QUEEN CITY SUP-
PLY AGENT, Box 709, Plaintield, N. J. :

BOOK OF NATURE,
iMustrated marriage guide, a private companion for all

seekinz Knowledge of sexual duties and pleasures:
over 5@ engraving3;, @1. Box 3182, Boston, Mass,

ah MISCELLANEOUS.

MAN AND WOMAN.

Imported Pictures for Gents. Man and Woman to-
gether; natural as life. Sold in sets ot 12 for $1; sold
12 years ago tor $. I guarantee them; exceedingly
rich and the Fanciest Pictures in this or avy foreign
market; one set (12), safely by mail, 31. LiBertry
SUPPLY AGENT, 58 Liberty Stree:, New York, -

‘ VAY GN
FRENCH!

Adventures ofa French ductor with bis female pa-
tients—a rare bhook—166 pages of fancy reading, choice
tid bits and 10 male and female Ulustrations. By mail,
well sealed, 50 cents: 3 books same nature, all difter-
ent, for 21. Mail or express.

T. H. JONES, Post Office Box 302, Jersey City, N. J.

FANCY GOODS.

Kooks, Views, Piotographs, Cards, ete.. ete., sealed

| Catalogue for stamped-directed envelope.

W. Scott, Third Floor, 39 Nassau Street, New York.

The Magic Revealer. Do
you wish togaze on the mysteries
of artor nature? Magnifics 1.000
times through a directimportation
$10, assorted. Money for agents.

Genuine French Transparent l'laying Cards. pack.$1.00;

1 V Six beautifully iilustratea fancy cards,
SPI C Y ! with the toilowins racy poctic verges,
entitled “What Did She Mean?” “Key Hole in tre
Door,’ “Parlor Seene at 12 P. M..” “Hints to Young
Ladies Learning the Machin’, “Description of a Nup-
tia! Night.” and “Under the Garden Wall.” Sent by
mail for 25c. Complete sainples of all, $1 00.

PurcuasinG AGENCY, Box 178, Vhiladelphia, Pa,

Can secure a full pack of Transparent Playing Cards,
the kind vou want, for &2.50; also the F, H. Book (orig-
ital copy). tully illustrated, 32.50: also the finely ilus-
trated and very fancy Book S. F.. $2.50. I will get and
send you either, well sealed, by express or mail, up re-
ceipt of price,or all the above to one address on receipt
of $%. Address LIBERTY SUPPLY AGENT, 58 Liberty
Street, New York.

TO GENTLEMEN ONLY

An entirely NEw invention, which no gentleman, mar
ried or single, should be without a sing’e day. Over
20,000 sold at private sale the past four months. It will
last at least a year with csreful usage. and can Le carried
in the vest pocket. Sent sccurely sealed with full dirce
tions on receipt of 50 cents. cr two for 75 cen s. R, F.
Caton, Box 5,257, Boston, Mass. N. B.—Thisis no humbug.

Send six cents for postage, and re-
eeive tree. a costly box of goods
which will help all, of either sex, to
more money right away than any-

: thing else in this world. Fortunes

awalt tbe workers absolutely sure. Terms mailed free.
TRUE & Co., Augusta, Maine.

VERY USEFUL RUBBER ARTICLE
FOR GENTLEMEN
will be sent in a sealed envelope for 26 cents

in st-mps; three forS50 cents One dvuzen for

PRESCRIPTIONS are to be fousa
FRE Sot HEALTH? f
“SCIENCE of HEAL ; or
y »of Nervous Debility, Lost Manhood,
emomeenes. cc. A copy of this book will be sent
free sealed, Address SCLENCE of HEALTH,
130 West Sixth Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.

CLIFFORD RuBBER Co.,
- Boston, Mass.

ature revealed by the Mystic Mixeoeon §
you cin look at all you want to see, 25c, hotos,
maleand female; beat old timers: 6 for 25¢c.; no two
alike. A famous French Book translated into plain
Fnglisb. You will enjoy 1; 50e¢. PARK NOVELTY
Co., P. O. Box 1,191, Philadelphia, Pa. :
BIG. OFFER. To introduce them. we will
give away 1,000 Self-Operating Washing Ma-
Chines if you want one send us your name, P. O.
and express office. at once. THe NatioNnaL Co,
23 Dey Street, N. Y :

wil! start any person. in anew business, and
which will pay from $10 tes50 every evening.
Nopeddiing. Cut this out and write at once.

WorLpD Mrc. Co. 122 Nassau St. New York,

RUBBERGOO DS. $1.50 per doz. Ladies, 50c.*
, $225; $4 per doz.. mailed securely.

Box 297, Windsor, Ont.

aud’s Contessions. Rich and Racy 2%
eents. 12 Sensationat Photos of Women (no
tights), 50 cents. All wel! sealed, 60 cents, stamps.
Box 490, Montclair, N. J.

ANT FOR ALL! $302 week and expenses
WORK paid, Outfit worth Sand particulars free,
P.O. VICKERY, Auzusta, Maine.

66 Chovewell Srience.” Short but Pithy. Box
S 2049, Boston, Mass $1 and self-directed envelope.
A surprise 1n store.

ubber article. $1. Sent prepaid from observation.
MADAME LE CLARE, 152 La Salle St., Clicago, Il.

ris ntal Charm, or Secret of Love. Sample 1,
2c. stamps. MME. Voun, Detroit, M.

A gents wanted for my new fast-selling articles.
Samples free. C. E. MARSHALL, Lockport, N. Y.

AMUSEMENTS.

CADEMY OF MUSIC,
Tammany and Nilsson Halls,

Grand Mammoth and Popular Mask Ball of the

PROSPECr ASSOCIATION,

Thursday, February 4, 1886.
Six Large Orchestras. Gro. H. HUBER, Manager.

urious Relations of the Sexes.—Men-women
Jand women-men; romance, adventure, mystery
and satire; rich love scenes ; 239 pages, 50 cents.
Ray J. Fisher, Lock Box 247, Rochester, N. Y.
atent Binders, Containing Four of the
latest issues. for filing the PoLice GAZETTE. can
be pugghased at the Potice GazettE Publishing, House,
Franklin Square, New York. Price, $1.50 each.

RISH MOLLIE, The Courtesan Queen. A

Rare Spicy Book just published. 36 rich illustrations.
Over 200 pages. Send forit. But don’t let Pa see it.
Price 50c. Address, E. E. MCELFRESH, Currollton, Mo.

pa Mall Gazette Expose, in book form: just
published, 15 cts, Box 709, Plainfield, N.-J.

Rt re Books! Send stamp for Catalogue.
C. Conroy,37 Fraoktort St., N.Y, Established 1853.

105 Popular Song<, no two alike, tor 10 cents.
>) J. WEHMAN, 50 Chatbam street, N. Y.

ents! For your girls; 6 teasing love letters. read

two ways. Mail lc. to Box 709, Plaintield, N. J.

A genuine old time Testament. Over 200 pages
solid. No trash, él. W. A. VAN Horn, Forest, O.

sia aeeeeneonen ee Y

Catalogue for Stamp. Box 709, Plainfield, N. J.

PRINTING.

rhe finest Portraits, Theatrical, Railroad,
_ Steamboat. Insurance, Political or Commercial
Work, Show Cards. Handbiils or Posters executed
prumptly at low prices by Ricuarp kK Fox, Franklin
Square, New york.”
BS Send tor Estimates.

Man: ers before ordering Printing should
send for estimates and saniyles, Low prices and
i RICHARD K. Fox,

prompt execution. g ‘
Franklin Square, New York

DRY GOODS.

Ladies’ Underwear

AND WRAPPERS.

Our New Fall Iltustrated Catalogue now ready. It will
both interest and benefit vou. Sent free anywhere.
MAHLER Bros., 505 Sixth Avenue, New’ York.
N. B.—Lace-Trimmed Underwear a specialty.

a ae

MEDICAL.
[ Tsay cure 1 do not yiean merely to stop J or &

eand then havethem return again, I mean aradical cure,
weve made the disease of FITS, EPILEPSY or FALLING
BICKNEsSS & life-long study. Iwarrant my remedy to cure
the worst cxses, Because others have failed is np reason for
not now receiving acure. Send at once for_a treatise and &
Free Bottle of my infallible remedy. Give Express and Post

Ottice, It costs you nothing fora trial, and I willcure you.
Acdcress Dr. LU. G. ROOT, 183 Pearl 8t.. Now York.

sted Voltaic Belt, with Klsctrio

relief
of v

A CARD.

To all-who are suffering from the errors and indis-
cretions of youth, nervous weakness, early decay, loss
ot manhood, &c.. k willsend a recipe that will cure
you. FREE OF CHARGE. Thisgreat remedy was dis-
coverd Dy a missionary in South America Send a
selt-addregsed envelope to the REv. JOSEPH T,
INMAN, Sélation -D, New Yore City.

Dr. zone * Patent Electric Belts,
A sure cu for Nervous Debility,
) Loss of Manhood, Weakness of Body
and Mind, Youthtul Errors, &c.
Write for book on Manly Vigor. Dr.
Younse, 260 Hudson ne: rFCanalst. N.Y

ONZ:Y,. A Quick, Permanent
Cure for Tost Manhoue Debility, Ner
‘vousness, Weakness. No quackery. Ine
disputoble Proofs, Book sent seal

free. ERIE MED. CO., BUFFALO, N.Y

] r. Burghee’s Permanent Cure for General

Debility, Lost Manbood, Kidney and_ Urinary Dis-

ordefs: quick, sure. Send tor circular giving full par-
ticulars. ' J. S. GRIFFIN, East Hadda m, Conn.

r. Fuller’s Youthful Vigor Pills. For
‘lost manhood, impotence, and nervous debility; $2,
sent by mail. Dar. FuLver, 429 Canal street. N. Y.

adies in trouble. send 40c. for only sate_and im-
4 mediate reliet. “M. DUMOT, 732 8th Ave., N, Y.

} CARDS.

USH! ‘You Can Get Them. Gents only.
Full pack, 53 Genuine Transparent Cards. *‘Hold
to Light; secreted views; mule and temale; old-
timers. Mailed secure, 50c. per pack (price reduced),
2 packs 90c. Frenct Photo free every order. Our
unequaled set of 6 Genuine fancy female
hotos, from life, for gents private album, Price

'HE FReNCH.IM PORTING Co., Box 1294, Oswego, N.Y.

1 9 CARDS, entitled: “What Tommy Saw Un-

der the Parlor Door ;” *“he Tickler ;” “The Nup-
tial Nignt;”’ “Tbe Adventures of a Newly-Married
Couple; “sparking in the Dark;:” “The Basbful
Man and His Experience on His Wedding Nigbt;”
*How to Do It.” and tive others oe, racy ; sealed,
tor 50cents. Stampstaken. Box 709, Plainfield, N. J.

THE FIRST NIGHT. A one act play.
G : See pages, 75c. er *
enuine rene jransparen Pp: a card:
pack $1, three packs §2; six good camples*i5e.™ Read
our advertisement in last week’s POLICE GAZETTE.
PaRK Novetty Co.. Box 1,191, Philadelphia, Pa.

get a pack of 53 Genuine Trans-

CAN parent Cards and 20 Photos trom

' Lite (ur 50c. Pall Mall Gazette Expose, 10c.
Box 297, Windsor, Ont.

OUNG SPORT! Pack (53) Genuine Transparent

Cards; rafe scenes; wah 2 cabinets .of_ females

from lite for 50 cts. Wedding night, true to nature,
10 cts: Box 709, Plainfield, N. J.

Geek and Find ! Gents only. 20 Racy Scenes. 10c.
(silver), from lite. Roya PuB. Co., Boston, Mass.
Proreents only? 30 elegant .Colored Scenes from

Life, male ane female. 25c. Box 273, Westbroo... Ct.

whet ‘Tommy Saw Under the Parlor Door [!us-
tratea; rich. 5 2c stamps. Box 709, Plainfield,.N. J.

PHOTOGRAPHS.

Joker Wood, 208 Bowery. New York, can
eJ furnish Photographs from life of sll the champions
and well-known sporting men. including Richard K. Fox,
John L. Sullivan, Paddy Ryan, Dominick McCaffrey,
Mike Cleary, Charley Mitchell, Jack Burke. Jack Kilrain,
Alf. Greentiald. Jack Dempsey, La Blanche, thé Marine,
and 409 other champions of alt - athletic sports. Send for
catalogue toV. Woop, 2U8 Bowery, New York.

7 > Yh Send-25c. for 6 very choice sam-
I HOT ». ples, just the kind you want,
and “don't"you forget 1t.,” Gro. T. WILSON, Box 322,

ies pbia, Pa.

NIGHT SCENES Pe. ag

Photos, CABINET SIZE, FEMALES FROM LIFE. If
A you want the genujne you must pay’a fair price.
These come high. but they're dandices: 3 samples, dol-
lar bill, PARK CiTy ART Co., Chicago.

PH OT @ (Cabinet) of 100 “Rare Stage Beaities,” 25c.
OS Samples free. W. H. REED, Detroit, Mich.

Id-Time French Photos of Females trom life.

10 Genuine Cabinet Photos., Females, (no tigbts)
25e; fifty for $1; no 2 alike. Box 198, Marilla, N.Y.

eauty unadorned, 16 French Subjecis; cabinet size,
10c. and 2c.stamp. ROYAL PUB. Co., Boston, Mass,

10 Eardsize Photos, Actresses in Tights, 25c. 10

abinets, 50. Box 534, Pluladelphia, Pa.

MEDICAL.

ERRORS OF YOUTH.

Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Youthful Indis-
cretions, Lost Manhoo?,
BE YOUR OWN PHYSICIAN !

Many men, from the effects of youthful imprudence,
have brought about a state of weakness that has re-
duced the general system so much as to induce almost
every other disease, ain the real cause of the trouble
scarcely ever being suspected, they are doctored for.

many valuable remedies that medical science nas-pro-J
duced for the relief of this class of patients, none ‘dfs
tbe ordinary moues of treatment effect a cure. During
our extensive college and hospital practice we have
experimented with and discovered new and concerf-
trated remedies. The accompanying prescription is
offered as a certain and s ly cure, as hundreds
of cases 1n: our practice have been restored to perfect
health by its use after all other remedies failed. Per-
fectly pure ingredients must be used in the preparation
of this prescription.

Eryturoxylon coca, }4 drachm.

Jerubebin, 44 drachm.

Helonias Dioica, }4 drachm.

Gelsemin, 8 grains. ‘

Ext. ignatie amare (alcoholic), 2 grains.

Ext. leptandra, 2 scruples.

Glycérin, q. s. ; Mix.
Make 60 pills. Take 1 pillat3p m..and arother on
going to bed. In some cases it wil) be necessary for:
the patient to take two pills at_ bedtime, making the
bumber three a day. ‘Ibis remedy is adapted to
every condition of nervous debility and weakness in
either sex, and especially in those cases resulting trom
imprudeuce. The recuperative powers ot this restora-
tive are trul ecto gy 2 and iis use continued tora
short time changes the languid, debilitate¢g, nerveless
condition to one of renewed life'and vigor. ‘

As we are constantly in receipt of letters of inquiry
relative to this remedy, we would say to those who
would prefer to obtain it from us, by remitting $l.a
securely seated package containing 4 pills, carefully
compounded, will be sent by return mail from our
private laboratory, or we will furnish 6 packages,
which will cure most cases, for $5.
Address or call on

NEW ENGLAND MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
24 Tremont Row, Boston, Mass.

. in : rote he on its merite
nquire no or cu:
illustrated’ on of

ervea,

lisease; by its use
Se ag a the worst kind and of long standing
together witha VA

3 my faith inlts efficacy,
LE TREATISE on this disease, to any sufferer. Give Ex

ESTORED. Rem
RES! g Rea of tome
imprudence causing Prema-
ture Decay. Nervous Debili-
ty, Lost Manhood, &c., having

tried in vain every known remedy. has discovered a
. 8imple .self-cure, which he will send FREE to his
fellow-sufferers. Address

J. H. REEVES, 43 Chatham-street, New York City.

ANTED A Lela er § gare uckiy
permanently cur crip-

MEWN/ tion of ‘INSTRUMENT, (WORN
NIGHTS,) and method of cure gent free in plain sealed
envelope. Send stamp to Dr. James WILson, Box
156, Cleveland, Ohio. Mention this papc~
TO WEAK oy eae from the ef-
fects of youthful er-

aS Ni rors, early decay, lost

power rao oe. I —— a gy treatise tpeales

u iC (+) ome cure, free
charge. Address Prof.¥.0.¥O IR, Moodus, Conn.

Vi cTl Ss OF UAC KS enffering from Nerve

vous Debility,
Lost Manhood, Biood*Poisoning, etc., consult Drs.
Theel & Siggint, 427 East Tenth St., New York, the
only advertising Physicians able to cuve those Diseases, Send
25 cts. for ** Truth,” Exposure of Frauds and their Tricks.

‘J have spositive remedy for the above, ¢

ave cu

“HARMLESS, SURE AND QUICK,”
COMPOUND EXTRACT COPAIBA,. CUBEBS AND
TRON. Is @ certain and speedy cure. Price $1 by
mail. At the OLD ‘DRUG STORE, 2 First Avenue,
corner Houston Street, and by druggists generally.

A Weakness and Lost Manhood, quick-
ly red ahead cured. Send for our

illustrated book mailed FREE to all afflicted. Ad-

dress, The Clarke Medical Co. East Haddam, Conn.

CE POWER Positively and Per-

manently restored in 2 to10 days bV a Delicious
\ Confection. Sealed Pamphlet Free. Addres3
| San Mateo Mep. Co., P. O. Box 481, St. Louis, Mo.

LA DIE Tansy Pillsare perfectly sate. and
: “AW)Je never fail; sent sealea, with di-
rections, for 50 cents, warranted. Address

CaTON MED. Co., KBox 5 257, Boston, Mass

LADIES Invaluable information imparted bringing
felicity home, by relieving antictpated bur-

‘dens. ‘Send self-addfessed envelope to Mrs,
ONLY. ELIZABETH E. STAFFORD, Manistee,Mich.

PILES Instant relief. Final cure in 10 days, and
| never returns. No purge, no salve, no sup-
pository. Sufferers will learn of asimple remedy. Free,
by addressing C. J. MASON, 78 Nassau St., N. Y.

7 Pertozione strengthens. enlarges and de=-
velops any portion of the eng rice $1, N. E
ass.

oker!—If you want to win at Cards,
send for the Secret Helper A sure thing. It will
beat old sports. Address H. O. Brown & Co.. Salem. N. H.

Gamblers & Gamblirg

Their Tricks and Devices exposed. Send
formy mammoth circular. Sent FREE
to ANYUNE, Address or call in person, |
WM SUYDAM, 66 Nassau St. NewYork City

CIGARS.

**\Tixin.” Bestin the country. Havana
4% filled, hand made. Sample box £2.
W. D. Nrxon, Trenton, N. J.

/ AGENTS WANTED.
‘¢ ’? 7 An active Man or Woman in
\ / A N r K )D every county to sell our goods.

Salary $75 per Month and Expenses. Canvass-
ing outfit and Varticulars FREE.
StaNDaRD SILVER-Wake Co., Boston, Mass.

Mxp. Inst., 24 Tremont Row. Boston, (Copyrighted.

KA LO A quick, absolutely certain cure for
e lost vigor, night losses, Nervous Debil-
ity, ect., $1, by mail. Kalo Med. Co., Kansas City, Mo.

Morphine Habit Cured in 10__
to 20 days. Nopay till Cured,
Dr. J. STKPHENS, Lebanon, Ohia

mpediments to marriage removed by using our Ner-
vous Debilitv Pills; $1 per box; 6for $, postpaid
N. E. Mepicat Institute, 24 Tremont Row, ston, Mass.

Free a

FAT How to Reduce It. Full Diet. Elegant.

ORRESPONDENCE. Emissions ;
Private diseases—Vigor Pills. Star
MEDICAL Co., Kalamazoo, Mich.

Treatment. By ‘fhe Doctor.’ Send two %&.
stamps for Manual. Theo. Wing, Plainfield, Ct.

] r. Fuller’s Pocket Injection with Syringe
combined. Cures stinging irritation and all urinary
diseases. $1. All Druggists. Depot 429 Canal St N.Y.

adies’ Ergot Pills! Sure, Safe and Pain-
less. Action commences at once. Sent sealed tor
$1. BALM CANADENSIS Co., Wilkesbarre. Pa.

Vi COR Por Men. Quick. sure, nafe. Book free,
4 Civiale Agency, 160 Fulton st., New York,

everything but the right one. Notwithstanding t ey

SPORTING GOODS.

Double Barre! Breech

In the
needed qnalitiesin gun mets.
gun. hencest is named the **woOoo
existance. But not only is the meta
found in any gunsmith’s shops

It is made for service, not show, althou
the same powerfu

24 inches in Diametor. Distance 65 Y

METAL, PERFECT

NOW OR NEVER ij

Areatest Bargain Ever Offered

= Every Part Hand made
and warrantid

S$ YOUR CHANCE!

to got the best handmade, reliable shooting gun ever manufactured.

anywhere. Itis —

The Grandest Triumph of

great gun factories of the world continual experiments are made to.obtain the rreatest strength with other
Afterinnumerable trials they at length hit upon the kind of metal used - in this
wilco @?* it honor of the Woolwich Infant, the most powerful! Rifled cannon in

world, but it is made-by the most skillful artizaus to be

Intelligence and Practice.

very handsome. No other breech-loader begins to have anything like
Taction, Itisncentre fire, t0or 12 bere, Steel Barrels finely bored. H
Steel Lock, blued; an autom: tic shell ejector suits either paper or brass shélis handsome cause hardened mount
ings. Barrels 28, 30 and 382 inches.

as very easy working

It Shoots Perfectly at 80 Yards and Will Kill at 150 Yards.

This Illustrates a Target with both a Target

It is one of the strongest arms ever made weighs from
7% to 9}; pounds, it has all the best qualities found
in a $50 Shot Gnn. The instant yd eye spots this gun
you willadmire it and the first trial will convince you that
ite never took sight over a better or truer piece Wein-
end to be permanently engaged in the sale of the WOOL-
WICH Gun and for this reason we putit, for the pres-
ent, at so low a figure, as we are satisfied that every hiun-
terand Sportsman will concede it to be the best shooting
gun furnished at any price. So satisfied are we of the grent
merits of this guh that we will send C. O. D. on receipt of
$3.00, subject toexamination. Balance ofbilito be paia
at express office. As soon as enough of these guns are sold
at 813.50 tomakethem well known to the shooring
classes we shall put the price up to $25.00 knowing they
will readily sell at that wherever known. Now is the.
time to be sure of getting this exc ‘lent Gun
at ° - A good gun like a good watch is always val-
Gable and will often sel! for morethan twice ite cost, To any
one sending $12.50 at once, full amount of cash wit!) order

‘WE WILL GIVE FREE A SPORTS-
+ MAN’S BELT of tine A SeORTS

“ canvas and 25 Shells extra.

- Our patented solid brass shells, which prevent charges and
wade from fa:ling out, furnished at 6© cents a Dosen, $
.& Hundred. Paper Sheils 7§ cents per Hundre/,. $2. $

will buy full set reloading tuvis, ON, So ae

IF VMObRRATE Price buy THis.

Send money by Post Office Order or registered letter.

World M'f'g Co.122 Nassau St., Hew York

PROPRIETARY ARTICLES.

JEWELERS.

TARRAN1’S EXTRACT OF
Is an old, tried remedy for
gonorrhea, gleet and all dis-
eases of the urinary organs.

\ -Jts neat, portable form, iree-
\ dum from taste and speedy

three or yep and always
in less time“tban any other
preparation), wake “Tar-
rant’s Extract” the most de-
sirable remedy ever manu-
factured. ‘To prevent fraud
$2e that each package has a
red strip across the fave of

action (it pnp meget cures in |.

label, with the signature of!
ARRANT &
upon it. Price $1.00. Sold by all druggists.

D Keller, 24 John Street,.N. Y.
° Manutacturer of Medals.
Special designs will be turnished on application. A
ree ss + time ne — in gold La
80 & he oO amonds at the low-
est cash prices.

ELECTRIC SCARF PIN.

Complete with Battery, Wirem
Lamp and Switch.

PRICE, $2 CASH,
orsent C. O. D.

R. S. DoBBIF,

J. Cc. ALLAN CO.,

Cure without Medi-

; cine. Patented Ocio-

One box will cure

§ the most obstinate

case in four days or less.

Allan's Soluble Medicated Bougies

No naseous doses of cubebs, copaiba or oil of sandal-

that are certain to produce dyspepsia hy de-

stroying the coatings of the stomach. Price $1.50. Sold
by all druggists or mailed on receipt of price. For tur.
ther particulars send tor circular.

CURE

83 Jobn St., New York.

Docuta genuine.
boxes, 75 cents. All Druggists.

Kk ieney. and all Urinary Troubles quickly

and safely cured with Docuta Sandal wood. Cures
seven days. Avoid injurious imitations; none but the
Full directions. Price, $3.50; half

LADIES

of form beautifully prop ortioned. Pittings, Freckies
Wrinkles, Moles and
Teanihestons bleached or artisticall

eee

DYKE’S BEABD ELIXIR | Pore 'eserien u

TOILET ARTICLES.

~VIOLANT’S MUSTACHARION!

' Greatest: Preparation ever produced tor rais-

an elegant heavy, glossy mustache or

whiskers. Senc 0cenis for Box with full directions.

MUSTACHARION Co., 23 Dey Si., New York City.

Idevelop the form by a new
process (never fails) and increase or
educe flesh scientifically. Any par

superfluous Hair removed

beau-
Full particulars, 4e. Address

Mme. M. Latour, 2,146 Lexington Ave., N. Y.

\d heade in 20 to dome.

Extra Strength, Quick, Safe, Bure.

Af cher remedy. Zor 3 Vhga. dove the work.
Will prove it o¢ forfert $10.00. Price
per Phg. with directions sealed and
pad 2> ets 3 for 4) cia. stampa or silver.

Pee smith Mfg. Co., Palatine, Ills

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.

Bane: Henry Cc. Dobson, Sole Manufacte-

urer, and ‘Teacher ofthe Great Patent Silver Bell

Banjo. Send for circular to 1,270 Broadway. New York.

“A GRAND. OFFER!

THIS ELEGANT

T bave secured the whole stock of the above watches. The cases
are made ofa metal that resembles 18 K. GOLD: they are not
polished, but are ENGINE TURNED. »+ it is called. They are
also artistically engraved. They arw tinished with the best sub-
stitute for genuine gold ever discovered,- and even experts
are puzzled to tell that ‘they’ are not SOLID GOLD.

hey have the celebrated anchor lever movement. comperkation
balance. fufl-jeweled, and have the appearance of a $75 AT A
Being accurate time keepers they are suitable for use on railroads,
steaipers and all other places where a good, serviceable watch is
required. I also have a very handsome ladies’ watch at the same
price. In ordering state whether ladies or gents. I send either
watch, postpaid, by registered mail on reccipt of $6.50, Stem-
winder and stem-setter $l extra’ Or will send it C. 0. D. upon re-
ceipt of $1, a3 an evidence of good faith. Send money by post-
office money order or registered letter, or deposit it with this paper
until you receive the watch. Chains of fine rolled plate at $1;
charms, 50c. .

Queen City Supply Agent, Plainfield, N.J.

SPORTING RESORTS.

! arry Hs Great Sporting Variety Thea.
__ tre, 26 East Houston st., New York. Variety and
boxing performance every evening. Sacred concert every

se 1p* a Ss ay

and lady of the household
Free and postpaid. Each
Folks at
ins! will give splendid satisfaction. Addr

aan” ELKAGKROLE 2 WIT

hased the lot at one-half rice, and shall give them away to increase the circulation of our magazine,
mos, subscription to FARM AND HOUSEHOLD, the large 39p. illustrated Magazine devoted to the interests of the modern farmer

ene we will send you this nice Pariaian Flageolet, 14 inches long with 6 keys in @ nice case f« rearrying,
d nstrument has full instructions and the following pieces of Choice Music. Heme Sweet Home, Peek-a-boo, Old
ome, Sweet Bye-and-Bye, Last Rose of Summer and Hold the Fort, Five Flageolets and five subscriptions for 21.00, This
ee FARM AND HOUSEHOLD,

FOP ASS Bare as

MUSIC

Sunday night.

The Flageolet is the sweetest

pete: ae Of musical instruments and the
4 FG De . €asiest learned. A large import-
coat ~ ing house having a quantity left
over from the holidays, we have
as follows: Send us 25 cents for

TFORD. CONN,

16 | THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. | BEB, 6, 1988)

Ns a A. LAS eNO

ee ee eee ted

SSS SSS.

Lae
nan

A CARNIVAL ON RUNNERS.

THE RECENT COLD WAVE BRINGS OUT A WONDERFUL COLLECTION OF SLEIGHS AT WASHINGTON, D. CG,


=== sim_national-police-gazette_1897-02-06_69_1015 ===

RICHARD K. . FOX

Editor and Proprietor. S. rw Y YORK, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1897.

HOW

~ Sr nny
\ AW NN Re My vg Ny su ll
HAN AU Ml Sal
All KLIN I) i" WT Irie NIT: x, i I
im. a \\ HALE

ine si
PRT

ZEA ss Se: he

VOLUME LXIX. —No. 1,018,
Price 10 Cents.

THEY GOT PAPA’S WAD.

TWO LOVELY NYMPHS OF NEW ORLEANS, LA., PULLED THE LEG OF A “GOOD THING,”

Ce aR
errr

Established 1846.

RICHARD K. FOX,
NEW YORK AND LONDON.

Editor and Proprietor.

ENTERED AT THE POST-OFFICE, NEW YORK, N. ¥., AS BECOND-

CLASS MAIL MATTER.

NEW YORK:
THE RICHARD K. FOX

PRINTING AND PUBLISHING HOUSE. |

The Fox Building, - .

LONDON, ENGLAND:
149 Fleet Street, E. C.,

From which office the London Edition is printed | Clemmons, upon whom Buffalo William squandered a

and issued simultaneously with the
American Edition.

NOTICE.---THE POLICE GAZETTE employs no
travelling agents or solicitors. Any one repre-
senting himself as such should be handed over to
justice as an impostor and swindler.

Money-orders, drafts,etc., must be made pay-
able to the proprietor of the ‘‘ Police Gazette,"’
RICHARD K. FOX,

TALES oF THE
TENDERLOIN

Don’t fail to read them.
They will interest you.

They are studies taken from real life and the
people who figure in them are not
fictitious characters.

AY alittle attention to the PoLtice GAZETTE
these days.

F you want to know something about Ten-
derloins read the seriex of stories which be-
gins in this week's issue.

EAD about “Diamond Aggie, the Queen of
the Tenderloin,” in this issue. She isa
character taken from life.

8 a sporting authority the PoLice Gazette
ranks highest in the world. No one has
ever questioned its columns.

HE English edition of the Potice GazETTE

is in such demand that all papers are sold
before the middle of the week. And it is only
just beginning.

HAT a grand sight it must have been for

the San Francisco hoodlums when the
ladies slid down a plank in their night dresses
to escape from a fire. The remarks the boys
nfade couldn’t be printed here.

«¢ RLUE-EYED DAISY.” of Memphis, Tenn.,

has‘ gone from home. Of course she
has gone with a male companion. They are
having a good time now, perhaps, but wait
until the money gives out, and then—

UFFY. of Paterson, N. J,, loved a widow,
The widow loved him not. So Duffy took

her about her slender waist and said he would Other officers were appealed to in rapid succession with

Franklin Square. |

throw her over a balcony if she didn’t fall in |

love with him at once. Strange to say, she

reason Duffy, of Paterson, N. J.. was arrested. |

HE notorious woman of Detroit who made |

a business of procuring girls and women
for men who were willing to pay her, is behind
the bars now, where she will have a chance to
think hideous She
“obtained” everything from a sixteen-year-old
girl to a forty-five-year-old matron, and she
has gone up and down the line in great shape.

over her crime. has

'PAPINTA’S OD

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

PHOTOGRAPH.

‘The Famous Mirror Dancer Has a Reproduction Made of the
Wonderfully Developed Muscles of Her Back.

KATHERINE CLEMMONS SLATED TO WED MILLIONS.

Dainty Cora Tinnie is Happy These

Winter Days Because She Has At Last Found

an Angel Who Will Launch Her AS a ‘Star.

Pepinta, the myriad dancer, whose art has
eclipsed that of all other dancers, has had her back
photographed. The picture shows all the muscular de-
velopment of the trained athlete, and is pronounced
truly wonderful. At present Papinta is in St. Louis,
where she has created a furor with her unique act,

It begins to look, after all, as if Katherine

bank roll in order that she might gratify her penchant
for starring, would marry one of the wealthy Gould
family. Listen towhat her mother, who is in San
Francisco, is supposed to have said:

“My daughter is engaged to marry Howard Gould,
and has been foraloug time. It would be foolish to
deny it, but we dislike the notoriety which the an-
nouncement brings. In deference to the wishes of Mr.
Gould, she has given up her professional engagements.
Not because Mr. Gould has any prejudice against the
theatrical profession, but only because he feels it to be
unnecessary for ber to continue at work.

“No date bas been set for the marriage, and I am not
at liberty to give an opinion as to whether it will be
celebrated here.”

At this stuge of the game it may be of Interest to
know that the Gould family is saying nothing and that
Katherine bas dropped all stage aspirations and js liv-
ing about as high as possible.

Cora Tinnie has found an ‘‘angel,” and is

now in search of a New York theatre in which to ap-

‘*Did you hear that fellow say that Tedily had the best legs in the bunch ?”

** Yes, and I told him she wore six pairs of tights, too.’’’

pear asastarinanew musical comedy. Miss Tinnie
has done considerable flitting between this country and
Europe ot late years, but has rarely been seen on the
stage. What’sthe good of working when you don’t
have to?

It was only a few years ago that this same Cora gath-
ered in a little notoriety at one of New York’s famous
French balls. In tbe crush she lost her cloak. It was
pretty, but not expensive, and she was worried about
it. Soshe appealed to the head usher. He was unable
to find the missing garment and the actress appealed to
the next highest official. By that time the cloak had
grown in value and wa3 a plush wrap from Paris.

the market value of the cloak increasing rapidly. When
at last the search was abandoned Miss Tinnie left the

f | ball bemoaning the loss of a set of Russian sables.
hated him more than ever, and that was the |

Perhaps the most valuable article in Fanny

Davenport's remarkable collection of precious stones

and ornamental jewelry is a gold belt ot
Mosaic work, after the rocco style of ar'.

glittering
[t contains
1,300 stones—diamonds, rubies, sapphires, emeralds
and pearls, weighing vot less than 500 carats. This
does not include a pair of 20-carat emeralds. The belt

TAGE HAPPENINGS OF
1896, with per'raits, See “Poller Gazette Sporting
Avnual” for 1897 Now ready. All newsdealers of sent
direct from this office. Price 25 cents. RICHARD K.
FOX, Franklin Square, New York. 149 Fleet street,
Lendos, EB. C

; dences on Long Island.

was modelled to the waist of the actress, and is worn

without stays over a rich robe of white satin, elaborate-
ly embroidered and thickly dotted with silver spangles.
There are two hinges in the belt, and the clasp in front
is tastened by a concealed hook. The belt is said to be

It was fortunate that most of the audience in
Weber & Field’s Music Hall were women the other
afternoon, otherwise the embarrassing situation in
which Yolande Wallace found herself would have been
even more paintul than it was. During the perform-
ance of ‘The Geezer” a rip came in Miss Wallace’s

tights which would have caused Anthony Comstock,
if he had been there, to have thrown up his hands in
horrer,

The young woman's tights are not a bit too large for
her, and she has to sit down with a good deal of care.
On this occasion she sat down more vigorously than
usual, and asharp, splitting sound told her that her
worst fears had come to pass. She made a frantic dash
for the wings, but she couldn’t help but disclose the big
rent. She lost no time ir getting into a new puir of
tights, and reappeared, smiling apologetically aud try-
ing not to notice tbe stifled laughter to the audience.

Adelaide Herrmann has not only originated
and produced stage successes, but she is one of the most
accomplished and particular housewives as well. It is
owing to her grace and skillas a hostess that White-
stone became one of the most popular sunimer resi-
During ber travelsin her pri-
vate car with her late husband she used to do all her
own marketing. She used to leave the car in the morn-
ing accompanied by a servant with a network bag, and

make atour ofthe stores in whatever city they hap- |

pened to be, selecting for herself the articles for the
day’s need. All those who have been fortunate enouxh
to sit at her table will appreciate the desire which in-
spires her. ’

May Yohe, the woman with the solitary note
in ber voice, but who handled it so well that she land-

ed a lord on the matrimonial altar, is coming to
America to invade the music balls. She will come as
Lady Hope, and if she wears long dresses to hide her
limbs she is likely to do very well. She will, besides,
have a chance to revew ber acquaintance with some of
the rapid boys of the Tenderloin who used to kuow her-
when grub was scarce and cigarettes tev cents a box.
There’s many a flat in town that could tell—if walls
had voices—of many a nigbtly scramble in which May
played a star part.

Lillian Russell is stated to be very much out
ofhumor in regard to some of the statements made
about her, particularly that she married Walter Jones,
the young man who played the tramp in “1492.” She
remarked that she had still a husband, who must be
first got rid of before she could think of taking another;
but the fact was she had no idea of marrying anyone.
These reports so annoyed her, she added, that she
sometimes thought of forsaking the country and going
to live in England.

It must be that Lillian and Jonesey are really on the

outs,

Some curious person asked Miss Amelia
Somerville the other day what caused the fight between
Max Eugene, the tevor ot “Brian Boru,” and Signor
Perugini, in which she acted in the composite role ot
mediator and bumper, and to which ber strong right
arm applied the air brakes.

6 sit was simple enough,” replied Miss Somerville.
o nor said to the other: ‘You're not the only treble
on the beach.’”’

That was enough to start any one fighting.

Just before high noon the other day a dash-
ing young woman, ber manner and appearance decid-
edly suggestive of the stage, swept into the office of
Attorney Richard Wade, on the fif-
teenth floor of the Unity Building,
Chicago. Teun minutes later Attorney
Wade’s pallid clerk hurried to the
office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court
and filed there a suit for divorce that
will set gossip going at Cleveland, O.,
concerning a son of one of that city’s
many Standard Oil Company’s mag-
nates,

The young woman was Grace
Vaughn, who sings popular airs as a
member ot Hoy:’s “A Bunch of Keys”
company. The young man _ ftrom
whom she seeks legal separation is
a member of a well-known Cleveland
family.

The charges contained in the com-
plaint are sensational. The couple
were quietly married four years ago
during an engagement in Cleveland
of the Spencer Opera Company, of
which Miss Vaughn was a member.
The youth’s father was much incensed
when he learned of it, and demanded
that his son give up his
wife. He, who then was
deeply in love with bis
wife, refused, and Grace,
thinking his father would
relent after a while, con-
tinued with the company.
/ During her absence the
A father, she alleges, won the
son over to his way ot
thinking, and when the
wife returned and announc-
ed that MMe intended to
live with her husband she
was bundled off, and her
friends could not learn
what had become of her.
She was taken to the New-
berry Insane Asylum,
where she was kept seven
months, until she escaped.

She then resumed her
Stage Career to earn enough
money to secure a divorce.

According to Attorney
Wade, she begun suitat
Cleveland for Givorce in
August of last year. Her
husband acknowledged a
Service of the complaint
on August 20, but she was
compelled to drop the suit
because of a lack of funds.
In addition toa decree
she asks fora substantial
alimony, asserting that
the man whose name
she bears is always liber-~-
ally supplied with funds
resulting from deals in oil.
She sues for the neat sum
Ifshe getsit she will go out of the

l have discovered the secret of Anna Held’s
popularity. It’s her shiver. Have you seen her
shiver? When she sings “Won’t You Come Out and
Play With Me?” she shiversina deliciously mysterious
manner difficult to describe and impossible to imitate.
It's the very newest thing 1n histrionic effort, and the
Held doesn’t need to have it copyrighted. It’s hers!
She saw it first !

A lot of soubrettes have been trying to imitate her,
but no one has succeeded as yet.

“The Sporting Duchess,’”’ with its great
spectacular production, its magnificent cast and its
thoroughbred race horses, is at the People’s Theatre
this week. This is the greatest company that bas ever
appeared in this playhouse, including as it does the
names of such great artists as Rose Coghlan, Cora
Tanner, J. H. Stoddart, Elita Proctor Otis, Harry
Lacy, Louis Massen and R. A. Roberts. There are over
200 people on the stage during the course of the pro-

busipess.

} «duction.

T's SPORTS’ READY

Reference Book, the “Police Gaz tre Sporting Annual’

for 1897. Justout. Twenty-five cent, at all newsdealers

or from this office. RICHARD K. FOX, Franklio Square,
149 Fleet street, London, E, C,

New York.

TALES OF THE
TENDERLOIN.

Story of the Life of Aggie, the Beautiful Woman Who Became
Famous in New York as * The Diamond Queen.”

SHE WENT THE MERRY PACE THAT INVARIABLY KILLS.

Met an Old Admirer One Night, Who Gave Her a Chance to Begin Life All
Over Again, and She Told Him Her Only Romance.

The wind was beating the snow blindJy down on the heads of the hurrying pedestrians, and the hands of
the clock in the Heart of the Tenderloin both pointed at 6, which made it very easy foreven adrunken man
to tell the time. The work-a-day people were hurrying to their homes, and the others—those who fourish after
dark—were just beginning to rouse themselves for the night.

Any one who knows New York will tell you that the Heart of the Tenderloin is that patch of heart-shaped

open ground which lays between Broadway ou one side and Sixth avenue on the other, and Thirty-fifth street on
the top, and the man who knows

can start from that heart in any
direction and find anything on earth
he wauts iusideof tw: aty minutes.
So you see the Heart is a good place
to be on terms of familiarity with.

Among the people who came out
ot the darkened side streets into the
glare of the Heart was a woman of
about thirty years. On her head was
a battered alpine hat, and on her
shoulders was a jacket that had
once been fashionable, but which now
was ragged and worn.

She staggered up against a well-
dressed man who was passing along
the avenue, and ashe stepped back
and looked at her he said, almost in-
voluntarily:

‘Hello, Aggie! What’s the mat-
ter?’’

‘*Matter? Nothing,’ she answered,
thickly. “Do you see anything the
matter? Come and buy me a
drink.” ’

She leered at him. Years ago he
would have given anything for one
ot her smiles, and now, when her
smile was almost a caricature, she
almost disgusted him. He pulled
his coat about bim a little closer, and
said:

“All right; come along,” and to-
gether they walked down the side
street she had come out of to
Seventh avenue. They pushed into
a little side door which bore the sign,
**Family Entrance,’ and seated ‘ \
themselves at opposite sides of a ‘
small, square table. Diamond Aggie, Queen of the Tenderloin.

A brisk, alert, square-shouldered
young man, in a waiter’s white jacket, came in. “Absinthe, Billy,” said the woman. “Beer,” said the man.
And when he had gone she turned to the man and, looking him over with a critical eye, remarked:

“You're looking good, Tom. You don’t seem to grow old, do you?”

“I try to take care ot myself,”’ he answered as he puffed away at a cigarette.

“Do you remember that night at the French ball,” she asked him, “when you told me that ifI would be
good for a year you would marry me?”’

“Yes,” he replied.

“I’ve thought since then that I must have been ad d fool.”

“You were,” he answered, as he looked at her closely, ‘‘and you have been worse than that since.”

She had not lost all of the beauty tor which she had been famous in the Ten- .
derloin less than three years ago, but there were lines of care upon her face
which made her look older than she really was. They were the lines which come
from neglect. late hours and excessive worry. When they called her “Diamond
Aggie” she ruled over the Tenderloin’s hosts of men and women like a monarch,
and she was almost the most sought-for woman in town. She reigned like a
veritable princess in a magnificent apartment very
near the Heart, and a broker with a very familiar as
well asa very old name paid all the bills which she
incurred.

The man who sat opposite her remembered all this
as he watched her under the dull yellow light of the
single gas jet which lighted the room, and he began
to feel sorry for her.

He was about to speak when the waiter came in
with the drinks upon a shining tray.

She took hold of the glass nervously, and raised
it up so that the opal green of the liquor caught the
light.

“Here’s may I have better times, Tom,’’ she said.
“T can’t have much worse ones.’’

She gulped it down quickly, and it seemed to put
new life in her, for she straightened up in her chair
and held her head a bit higher.

He was thinking.

Suddenly he leaned over so she could feel his
breath.

*““Would you like to leave all this?”’ he asked her.

“Would I? Yes. Butwhen I leave it, it will be
in a box."

“What I mean is,’’ he went on, hurriedly, ‘would
you like achance to begip all over aguin. Would
you like to shake the crowd and live decently once
more ?”’

“Once more?” she repeated, scornfully. “I don’t
think I ever lived decently, except when I wasa kid.
What do you want me to do? I"m ready for anything?”
place, keep regular hours, and cut all the old crowd.”

‘And where is all the money coming from ?"’
“From me.”
“Well, where do you propose to come in ?”’

“I don’t propose to come in atall. I shali send you a check for your expenses every week, and once every
month I shall call and see how you are getting along. That’sail. I make this proposition to you because I

once loved you and because I think you are not yet lost. In other words, I am simply going to try au ex
periment with you. Will you do it?’

She thought a long while and then she answered:

“Yes.”

“T am curious enough,’ he said, ‘In view of the fact that I haven't seen you for such a long while, to ask
you one question. What has become of him?”

*“‘Who do you mean ?”’

“J mean the boy youran away with, and whom everybody sald you frst married and then killed.”

“I_want you to go and take rooms in some quiet

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE NEW YORK. 8

“Order another driuk,” she said. ‘“‘There's no reason why I shouldn’t answer any of your questions now that I
have sold myself ——”

**Don't put it that way. I don’t look upon itin that light. I told you before this was an experiment, and I
don’t ask any return from you. Did you really marry the boy?”

“Yes,I married him all right. and I loved him too. You see it was this way. When I first met him I liked
him because he was a kid but I didn’t do anything to encourage him—so help me Gud, I didn’t, Tom, no
matter what they say—but he seemed to takea great fancy to me from the start and I liked to have him
around me. Hecame up every time the old mau was out and we used & play together like a couple of kids,
What I’m telling you now is something that no one knows. I bad been out to a big dinner at Delmonico’s
one night witt¢ lot of the Old Guard crowd—the count and all, and one of them brought me home. We had
put away a lot of good wine, aud the fellow that brought me Lome wanted to come in with me, but I wouldn't
have it, and I slammed the door In his face. I was pretty full, but I managed to get upstairs somehow and
get in the drawing-room. My maid was waiting up for me and sbe seemed to be frightened about something.

* *He’s in there,’ she said, ‘I couldn't keep him out.’

“*Who'sin there, you d———d fool ?’ I asked her, for I thought she was crazy.

* *The little fellow from Fifth avenue.’ ;

“I went in the dining-room and there on a couch, fast asieep, with his face still wet with tears, was thé boy.
I fired the maid out and then woke bim up, for I knew there would be the devil to pay uf the old man found
out that be had been there, for he was Jealous of the kid from the start. I was mad clean through.

“*Whatin h—1l are you doing here?’ I yelled, as I pulled him off on the floor. I jerked him to his feet
and I never saw such a look on a tace in all my life. He looked as if he had secn a ghost and he began cry-
ing again.

‘Oh, Aggie,’ he said, ‘I have run away from home for yéu. I couldn't stay away any longer, for I love
you too much. Don’t talk like that to me, and with that he put his kid arms around my neck and began
crying more than ever.’

“T was so rattled for a minute that I didn’t know what I was doing, so I grabs him and says:

‘Come iu the other room and let's get a drink.”

“IT opened a pint and we both drank it. It sobered me and made him worse than ever. I had him sitting
in my lap all cuddled up, even though he was sixteen years old, when I seemed to fall in love with him all ofa
sudden. He looked to me like an angel. I cailed Aunette, and I says to her:

***Lock up the house and don’t let anybody in to save your life.’

“That settled it.

“About 4 o'clock in the morning the old man~be was always irregular—comes shooting up the stairs. He
tried his key, but as Annette had the dead latch on, it wouldn't work. So he took to pounding on the door. I
let him go for about ten minutes, until the noise got to be too fierce and the kid begius to get worried, when I
hops out of bed and lights the gas. I went to the door and yelled:

“ ‘Stop that noise!’

“Let mein,’ he answers.

**Go home to your wife and family,’ I said.

“T's me, Aggie. It’s Jack. Open the door.’

“ ‘Get out of that, you bald-headed old guy,’ I says back. ‘I’ve got a prize fighter in here and I'll turn him
loose in a minute.’

“That was enough for bim, for he went stumblivg and tripping down the stairs and swearing like a lunatic.
What made me feel a little more todependent at that time was that I had, in a drawer in the dressing case,
n check for $2,500 that I bad touched him for, to say nothing of the diamonds and the other stuff that he
gave me. You remember them, don’t you, Tom?”

The man nodded sullenly. “ Besides,” she went on apologetically, “when a person’s in love they don’t
really give a d—n whether
they got anything or not, ex-
cepting the ose they’re stuck

(TO BE CONTINUKD.)

PROF. PHIL SMITH.

(WitH PoRTRAIT.]

It remained for Montana to
produce a man with a novelty
in the bag-punching line. His
name is Prof. Phil Smith.

: While herding cattle on a

. : ranch he found plenty of op-
Pes portunity to increase his’ fistic”
accomplishments, He became

f a clever boxer and then took

/ up ball ‘punching. At first he

{ used the disc, with the ball

suspended from - above, -the
sanie as Fitzsimmons, Corbett,

a Belle Gordon and all the famous
yy ball punchers use. ‘Hisinability
to.carry a disc about with him
made it necessary to devise
some scheme to do without it,
yg It occurred to him to screw the
fa / swivel end of the rope into a
Of level floor, holding the ball in
r \ the hand and dashing it down

with sufficient force to make it
rebound, “when the work of
keeping it on the move by
I, the usual fist, wrist and elbow
/ “blows proved comparatively
/ easy. He is now giving exhi-
; f _ bitions throughout the country,

JERRY: REIDY.

(With POwrmarr.]

His name_ ‘is Jerry Buono,
but “under: | ken as
sumption t jan name
is not as uselul to a fighter as
an Irish patronymic he has

; adopted’ the name of Jerry _
Reldy,? hotwithstanding the
fact thagthere is another fighter
now - before, the ‘public who is
lawfully entilled to the name.
Buon», or - Reidy, is a teather-
weight. He resides in Brook-
lyn and wants a fight before
one of the local clubs,

A GEO. B. PLANT,
Pe a a
“2, [VviTH PorTRaIT.)

Pittsburg, Pa., bas a good
lightweight boxer, whom
Buck Connolly and John J.
Quinn, Maher's backers, bave
every expectation of bringing
forward tor championship
honors sometime. His name
1s Geo. Plant. He has beaten
everybody in « class in
and about the Smoky “ity and

‘‘Do You Remember That Night at the French Bali When You Told Me That if | Would Be will probably be brougt to
Good You Would Marry Me?’ She Asked. New York before tong and

given a chance against some of
the crack-a-jacks. The metropolis offers a splendid opportunity Just now for young and aspiring boxers, and

young Plant certainly seems to possess the cleverness and stamina to make his mark.

SHOT HERSELF FOR LOVE.

(SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.} .

A most sensational attempt at suicide occurred the other morning in the rear room of the
at Vanceburg, Ky., when Mrs. Emma Palmer, a good-looking grass widow, made
threat to shoot herself.

Mrs. Palmer married unhappily and last year she and her husband separated by mutual agreerrent. She pro-
cured a divorce and fell Jesperately in love with a gentleman of wealth. The love was not reciprocated in the
measure adequate to the Jealous wishes of the widow. She thereupon became despondent and frequently
threatened to take her life.

Vanceburg Bank,
good her oft-repeated

‘The other morning she crowded herself into the rear room of the bank, called to one of the clerks, toid him
her sorrowful tale and then, before he could interfere, she drew the ugly weapon, a 38-calibre, double action,
and fired. The ball passed through both her thighs, breaking the bones. She Is not expected to live,

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

HATTA | |
Tie

WAIT Nil

j HE
Ht} Hi} IIH
i} AT HHT

HHH
it} ih

Tl iil
hil it
tt ni

Hl Hitt
it} hl
i} i] Wi

Ass »

ZWWass

- | GRACE HUNTLEY.
SHE IS LOOKED UPON BY COMPETENT JUDGES AS A PARTICULARLY ATTRACTIVE ACTRESS.

o> THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. 3

7 SSS Oe
meee

ee ee

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER SLAIN. SHOT HERSELF FOR LOVE.
BOTH OF THE VICTIMS WERE FOUND DEAD IN THE AFTER TELLING A STORY OF PASSION, A GRASS WIDOV/
BEDROOM OF THEIR HOUSE, AT LIBERTY, MO. ATTEMPTS SUICIDE IN A VANCEBURG, KY., BANK.

Guam ST

[eee SEES

DUFFY’S WILD WOOING.
HOW A PATERSON, N. J., MAN MADE LOVE TO THE FAIR WIDOW WHO HAD REJECTED HIS_ SUIT.

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

|] well-known artist of Pensacola, Fla., attempted suicide
x | by hacking her head with a hatchet.
| She cut both wrists with a knife and scissors, and, not
¢ | Satisfied at Lhe progress thus made, she took a hatchet

A Detroit, Mich., Woman Who
Traffics in Human Beings.

HAS A REGULAR TRADE.

How a Detective Got Her to Land a
Sixteen-Year-Old Girl for Him.

THE HUNTER IS IN JAIL NOW.

There is a noted hunter in Detroit, Mich., who has
just got into trouble through tollowig ber particular
line of business. She Isn't the kind of a hunter that
the term generally implies, but she is what is known in
Detroit society circles as a hunter of human game, She
has been for some time past in the habit of going from
house to house making good-looking married women
and young girls tempting oflers to come to her house
and engage in intrigues with men in whose eruploy she
has been. She would tell them that she knew ofa rich
young man who was enraptured with them, she would
poison their minds with flattery, the love of fine
clothes and diamonds, would inoculate a spirit of dis
content in their breasts, and in a hundred and
ciever ways lure them into the meshes of immorality
and intrigue.

So clever has she been at her business as hunter that
she has a list of at least thirty women who call at her
house, and whom she turns over to men in her parlors,
Ot late, however, she has been making a specialty o1
young girls and she bas boasted that she can furnish a
dozen at an hour's notice.

And all this bas been so quietly conducted that her
nearest neighbors are not aware of its existence, and
look upon this monster as a good, church-golng woman.
A man, who was curious to find some-
thing out about this woman in order that
he might expose her, called on her one
afternoon recently and said:

“T am a traveling man and about
three weeks ago. during a visit to this
city, I met a fine-looking, dark-haired
and rather stout young .ady ata theatre
who made a date with meto meet her
here the following night, but I was called
East unexpectedly and could not keep
my engagement. I do not remember
her name, but I remember that the place
was to be somewheres on Austin avenue,
I come to Detroit about three days every
month and I am willing to spend money
for a good time, Can't you find out this
woman tor me ?"’

“Why, certainly, if you have the
price,’ auswered the woman. The wo-
man who met you is Mrs. Johnson,
who lives on Ridpelle street. Shall I
send for her or will you go down and see
her?”

The female pander or procuress then
loosened her tongue and informed the
reporter that she had arranged for nu-
merous intrigues at her house between
Mrs. Johnson and various gentlemen
and also remarked that there was anoth-
er married woman of the same name
who lived near by the first Mrs. John-
son, who was also on her list as an en-
tertainer of men of means,

“If you don'thappen to find either of
the Johnsons in come back to me,” she
exclaimed, “and I'll find you some one
nice. Why, down there I guess there's twenty married
women who are gay all inone block and who are look-
ed upon by their husbands and neighbors as perfect
models of propriety,’ and she proceeded to cackle outa
hideous laugh.

“But,” remarked the man, “in case I make an en-
gagement with Mrs. Johnson where will I go with

“She'll tell you where,” was the smiling respotise,
“butit you don’t find her come back and I'll send for
some other married lady or girl.” y

And then, as he was going, out of the door, she re-
marked:

‘Remember, if you pay for the game, I'll hunt it.”

The man went to the home of Mrs. Johnson and he
found a luxurious establishment. He also found that
the woman is the wife of a loving husband, who Is in
receipt of a large salary, and that she is the mother of
several children, The servant who answered his ring
at the bell told him that Mrs. Johnson was not at
home.

Then in order to get more information he told the
servant girl that he had a date wifh Mrs. Johnsov. She
cautioned him not to have anything to do with her be-
cause Mr. Johnson was a very jealous man who would
kill any one he found with his wife.

“But the woman who runs that house

one

is a nice
woman,” continued the good-looking servant. “She
got me to go up there last week and now I'm on her
list.’’

The man went back to the woman with the list and
said be wanted a girl about sixteen years old,

“All right,’ answered the hunter.
in twenty minutes.”

Sure enough, at the appointed time she brought a
good-looking girl in the room.

“Here she is,”’ she said, “and
come very good friends, for I know
other.”

That was enough for the man, who proved to bea

“T'll get you one

I want you two to be

you will like each

detective, for he went away and at once swore outa
warrant forthe haunter’s arrest.

HACKED HER HEAD WITH A HATCHET,

[SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION. |
While temporarily insane the other day the wife of a

and backed the top of her bead until she became un-
conscious,

The husband first discovered her and physicians were
summoned. It was tound that there were numerous
fractures of the outer part of the skull and a number of
pieces have been removed. The inner lining of the
skull remains whole and she may recover.

This is her second attempt at suicide, she having at-
tempved to destroy herself six years ago.

es htininncnieadions
DUFFY'S WILD WOOING.
[SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.)

Acting on the principal that faint heart never won
fair lady,a roan named Duffy, who is a Paterson
machinist, has made such violent love to the fair object
of his affections that she had to have him arrested.
She isa lovely widow and he fell in love quick. He
went to her home, saw her in the parlor, and falling on
his knees, asked her to marry him. She refused and
then he seized her about the waist, carried her bodily
to the front piazza and threatened to throw her over
the rails to the pavement below unless she consented
to become his wife. The widow screamed and her
mother came to her assistance. The result was a flerce
battle in which Dufty got the worst of it.

Later he was arrested and held to await the action of
the grand jury.

TRIED TO KIDNAP THE BEAUTY.

[SuBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION. ]

A couple of unknown men have created the wildest
kind of a sensation at Buck Creek, Ind., by trying to
kidnap the village belle. The other evening while she
was busy with household affairs, and her
mother and sister had temporarily stepped
out, several neighbors being guests at the
time, she stepped outside the door, and was
seized by the wrist with a strong grasp,
while the other band of her assailant closed
over her mouth to prevent her from
screaming. In this condition she was
dragged out of the dooryard and into the
roaiway, Where a vehicle stood a short dis-
tance away, all the time making desperate
eflorts to release herself, so that she could

“She is only sixteen years old,”

said the big woman,

DIXON’S UPPERCUT
IN THE SIXTH ROUND.

Landed On Australian Billy Murphy's Stomach and Rendered
Him Hors de Combat.

ULTRA-FASHIONABLE SWELLS ENJOY A GOOD FIGHT.

Murphy Realized That the Result Was Inevitable and Decided That He Wanted

No More of the Unequal Struggle.

Australian Billy Murray's long-cherished ambition
to be the featherweigut champion of the world was
finally settled on Friday night last at the Broadway
Athletic Club, New York, when George Dixon, the
‘fighting wooder,” knocked him out, to al! intents and
purposes, in the sixth round of one of the liveliest
featherweight battles ever fought hereabouts.

To the spectators it appeared as if Dixon had put the
cadaverous-looking Australian out with a left-hand
stomach punch, The blow, however, was not siffi-
ciently hard todo any damage beyond doubling Mur-
phy upand bringing him to his knees. At the time

‘and 1 think you will

like her very much.”

call for help. Happily, her mother and sister {chanced
to be outside, and the noise made attracted their atten-
tion and they began screaming. Dropping the girl,
the would-be kidnappers sprang into the walting buggy,
where a confederate had remained seated, and drove
away before the neighbors inside the house could get
within range.

The girl's mouth and wrist were badly bruised and
her dress was cut as if by a knife. The affair was kept
quiet, 80 as to give the local horse thief detective society
a chance to try its detective ability, but so far nothing
has come of it. The neighborhood is greatly aroused,
and the home of the girl is guarded against further

molestation,
—_ 2eoe--ClUCCeClC

A POPULAR BOYS’ PAPER.

** Young Sports’ is Attracting Great Attention
From Boys All Over the Country,

Young Sports is becoming more popular day by day.
Each mail brings Mr. Fox letters of praise from boss
from Maine to California, and from Montreal to New
Orleans,

Young Sports, boys’ best paper, contains the very best
of juvenile stories,and the work of the best artists
money can procure. In its storlesin particular Young
Sports excels every other boys’ paper.

In two or three weeks Young Sports will publish a
story by Robert Louis Stevenson, one of the most
tamous authors that ever lived—a writer whose works
ar? Known in the most remote parts of the globe. Mr.
Stevenson, who died some years ago, produced the best
boys’ story that has ever been written in any language,
and in No. 36 Young Sports will present it to its
readers. No boy shouid fail to read this great story.

Just a word with the readers of the PoLICE GAZETTE,

You may not be interested in boys’ stories, but you
certainly know some boy who is. If you will kindly
send us a postal card giving the address of that boy, or
one or more boys, as you like. we would be only too
happy to send that boy or boys a sample copy. Do not
neglect to do this, as by so doing you will make some
of your young friends happy.

THLETIC, AQUATIC,

Cricket, football aud vachtiug records for 1896, complete
in **Police Gazette Sporting Annual’ for 1897. On sale
at all newsdealefs or from this office. Price 25 cents.
RICHARD K. FOX, Franklin Square, New York. 149
Fleet street, Loudon, B. O,

this happened it was apparent to every one of the four
thousand spectators that Murphy had no chance to
win, and the latter evidently realized it himself, for
instead of getting up and mantully returning to the
fray, he rolled over in a feeble attempt to impress the
spectators with the idea that he was incapacitated for
further fighting, and remained on the floor in hiscorner
until Referee Roche had counted him out. It was the
consensus of opinion among the spectators that he had
made up his mind not to take any more of Dixon's
punches, and when he went to the carpet in the sixth
round thought it was about as good a time as any to end
the one-sided affair. °

For the first time in a year Dixon fought like his old-
time self. His recent experiences with Tommy White
and Frank Erne taught him a salutary lesson, and he
conscientiously worked for this battle, with the result
that when he stepped into the ring he was trained to a
condition of physical perfection. It was evident that
he was determined to convince the sporting public that
with careful preparation he could fight as well as ever,
and there were many of the spectators who regretted that
his opponent of the night was not Frank Erne, instead
of Murphy. Dixon had worked off all superfluous
flesh, and at 3 o'clock in the afternoon he tipped the
scales a trifle under the required weight, 120 pounds.
Murphy was also under the stipulated weight. The
latter has always been considered a bad man to beat.
He had once before practically lowered his colors be-
fore Dixon. Ou that occasion, however, the battle was
unsatisfactory, for the reason that while Murpby was
worsted, the aflair wound upin such a row that the
question of superiority was not definitely settled.
Murphy’s record had always demonstrated the fact that
as a right-hand hitter be was superior to nearly every
man in his class. This advantage had served him weil,
and it was his chief method of attack in the fight the
other night. But as Dixon knew more about the game
and was able to keep out of the reach of that “‘danger-
ous right,” Murphy was clearly at a disadvantage.

‘The punch that finally put Murphy out of the fight

was scientifically delivered. It was a terrific left upper. |
cut which tollowed a right-baud swing. Both blows |

were sent straight to the mark and Murphy was fairly
beaten. There was notadrop of blood to be seen on
either pugilist.

There was very little betting. Dixon money abounded
but his backers, though they offered 10 to Gand 2 to 1,
found few takers. The few who did back Murphy at
these odds were allured by the price more than their
chance ot winning. They thought they would take a
gambling chance, and so parted with their money.
They committed the mistake of supposing that the
odds were worth the gamble, and as usually happens in
such cases, paid for their experience.

A crowd of ultra-tashionable sports in evening dress
kept streaming through the doors, filling the boxes
while the principals were preparing to enter the ring.
The crowd was undoutedly the most representative one
that has been seen in this city for many years, as large
delegations from Boston, Philadelphia, Providence and
Cincinnati surrounded the ring. A group of fifty
sports from Cincinnati occupied a block of seats on the
south side of the building and were enthusiastic over
Murphy. After the usual protracted de-
lay, it was 9:20 o'clock when Dixon
entered the ring, am!d enthusiastic ap-
plause. He was attended by Tom
O'Rourke, Joe Elms, Jimmy De Forest
and Jimmy Barry. Murphy appeared a
few moments later, esquired by Dan
Creedon, Mike Conley and Benny Mur-
phy.

Round 1--They fiddled a moment, and
then Dixon led with a left for the wind
which was blocked. Dixon sent in an-
other left, Murphy countering on the
neck with a right, which was not square-
ly landed. George again rushed with a
double left, Murphy’ clinching near the
ropes. Dixon's blows lacked their wonted
force, and there was a feeling of surprise
among the spectators who were sitting
close to the ropes.

Round 2—Murphy’s left for the body
was short, and then he stopped two
swings for the ribs. They gotintoa half
clinch and both used free bands on the
body. Dixon tried to draw his man on,
but the Australian took no chances;
so George rushed and was met with
a‘bard right on the neck. Both missed
heavy swings, and Dixon put a couple of
Straight lefts on the mouth,

Round 3—Dixon began to cut loose,
They exchanged swings, Dixon rushing in with a left
on the face. Once morge George did this, and Murphy
swulfg a terrific right, which was well avoided. Mur-
phy got a hard left to the jaw, and in a burst of in-
fighting held his own.

Round 4—Dixon laughed as he came up and putin a
left without delay, but Murphy blocked off a right
which quickly followed. George rushed into a clinch,
and in a second attack he landed two corking lefts on
the mouth as Murphy ducked. Once again the cham-
pion dashed in with his left flush on the neck, and
Murphy tell back toward the ropes. Dixon was after
him like a flash, but the Australian showed a clever
defense and recuperated before time was up.

Round 5 and 6—Dixon rushed in with a left on the
ear. He followed with two swings on the jaw, Murphy
clinching and hugging to save himself. George con-
tinued his assault and sent in blow after blow, Murphy
countering wildly and clinching hard. Jixon’s blows
were something like his old form, and as he never tired
he kept Murphy cornered most of the time. Murphy's
long leftreached the wind. Then Dixon swung a left for
the Jaw, which was well stopped. Another left, how-
ever, caught Billy on the cheek and he had to clinch.
Dixon rushed im again with his leftand right on the
head, Murphy also coming back with two ineffective
swings from which Dixon leaped away with agility.
Then George hustled in with a right on the neck and
a fearful left-hand uppercut which landed squarely on
the stomach. Murphy gave a gasp and jell onall fours,

Referee Roche counted off teu seconds with his hand,
and as Murphy was still unable or unwilling to proceed
With the bout Dixon was declared the winner. The
time of the round was 2 minutes and 43 seconds.
=. The contestants in the preliminary bout were Frank
O'Neil of Chicago, and Paddy Fenton of Boston. Ac-
cording to their contract the men were to box ten
rounds at 138 pounds. Fenton changed the pro-
gramme slightly by knocking O'Neil out after fighting
one minute and fifty seconds in the seventh round.
O’ Neil was taller and heavier than his opponent, and
was a big favorite in the betting; but unfortuvately for
him and his backers, Fenton had a left hand that he
could notescape. In the sixth round he pushed bis
chin against it and went down.

sailing titles:

At North Bend, Pa.. on Jan. 18, James Dempsey. cham-
pion featherweight of Central Pennsvivania, fouzht a seven-round
bout with Thomas MeCune,
purse of $100. For three rounds McCune held his
after that he went to piece.

of Philatelphia. The fight was for a
own well, but
Iu the seveuth round Dempsey knocked
McCune out with a swing on the jaw.

ICYCLE, BASEBALL,

Billiard statistics for 1896, with portraits of the cham.
pieps, in “Police Gazette Sporting Annual’ for 1897
Now ready. Price 24 cents, at all newsdealers or from
thisofMce. RICHARD K. FOX, Franklin Square, New
Tork. 169 Fleet street, Londos, &. CO,

BLUE-EYED DAISY

“FLEW THE COOP.”

oun == so

She Told Her Rather That She Was Working But All of Her
Work Was Confined to the Festive ‘‘ Growler.”

HAD LOTS OF FUN WITH THE BOYS EVERY DAY.

Now She Has Skipped for Good and the Memphis, Tenn., Police Are Looking
for a Blue-Eyed Girl With Blonde Hair and a Perfect Figure.

There is an empty chair in a Memphis, Tenn., house-
hold to-day, and the pretty blonde girl who occupied it
bas gone away with one or more of her boy compan-
fons. She was the eldest daughter and the pride of the
household, but now her reputation is gone, and if her
father ever lays bands on her she will have a hard time
of it. Her name is Daisy Winter, and although she is
only fifteen years old, yet she is bright,
pretty and clever, and she attracted
more attention from the young men
of the neighborhood than she ought,

She was fond enough of the boys, too, °
and she used to spend a good deal of \
her time with them.

On account of her bright blue eyes
she was calied the “blue-eyed pet,” a
name that she seemed to deserve.

About a month or 80 ago she went to
her father and told him she wanted to
go to work

He was surprised at her remarkable
request, as there was no need for her to
do anything of the kind. She had a
good home and all that a girl could
want,

“What do you want to work at?” he
asked.

“Ob, nothing very hard,”’ she said.
“I’ve got achance to learn to make
embroidery, and I would like it very
much, I know I won’t get much pay
at first, but I will get a lot when I

learo.”’

That is the way it began, and after
a considerable argument the girl had
her way and went to work.

Thatis to say, she left home every
morning at eight o’ clock and did not
return until seven in the evening.

But she never went to work.

Instead of that she was having a high
old time with the boysin a place that
was called & club room, and they used
to drink and carouse and have a high
old time from early morning until it
was time tor Daisy to go home in the
evening.

This kind of an arrangement might
have continued indefinitely had not a
friend of the father heard something
that aroused his suspicions, and forth-
with he went to the old man.

“*What is your daughter doing now ?”’
he asked. “She is learning embroidery somewheres
uptown and she is doing very good, too, for only last
week she got a raise in her wages.”’

‘“‘Would you be surprised if I were to tell you that she
isn’t working and never has been working ?”’

“What are you telling me?”

“The truth. Your daughter has been deceiving you,
for she has never had a position.”’

**Butsbe has been leaving the house every morning
and coming every night.”

“She has been carousing with a crowd of boys all day
long.”

“T can’t believe that,” said the father, ‘for my girl is
a good girl and wouldn’t deceive me.”

When the girl came home that night her father ques-
tioned her, and her answers did not quite satisfy him.
In the morning he talked to her again and finally he
said:

“Well, I'll go with you this morning to your employ-
er’s and see for myself.”

“All right, father,” she said, ‘‘but first I’ll go for the
milk.”

She hurried out of the room without any hat or coat,
and wearing a check apron over her plaid dress. The
minutes passed and she did not return. The father
grew impatiept and went to the stairs and called her.
Then he went down to the door. The inilk was there,
but Daisy wat not. He inquired at all the neighbors’.
Nobody had seen her.

The night came and went, but the girl did not return,
and then he realized the truth.

Now she is somewheres with her wild companions.

LACHIE THOMSON.

(W1TH PoRTRAIT.]}

Scotland has not been noted for producing many
eminent candidates for fistic honors. Oneof the best
of the few is Lachie Thomson, of Glasgow. He was
thought, at one time, to have championship material in
bim, but he wa- beaten by Dick Burge for the title, but
not until he had given the latter a sumptuous taste of
his quality.

“HANDS UP!” YELLED KITTY.

(SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.]

Pretty Kitty Angus is only a servant girl, but she is a
pretty one and a brave one, too, and the folks for whom
she is working in Littl Rock, Ark., think she is a
jewel. About 2 o0’clock the other morning a burglar
entered the residence throug!: the cellar door, stumbled
around the cellar tor a few minutes and then started u,
the stairs. The noise he made awakened Kitty, and
when he reached the top step of the cellar stairs and
threw open the door be found himcelf confronted by a

batter, and how can I get cakes in

resolute young woman, who pointed a cocked revolver
at bis face and asked, calmly:

“Well, what do you want?”

“N-n-n-othing, miss. D-d-d-on’t shvot!” stammered
the trembling burglar.

“What are you doing here, then?” demanded Kitty,
still leveling the revolver that she had obtained in her
mistress’s bedroom at the
cowering fellow. “Aren't
you ashamed of yourself
—throw up your hands—
breaking into a decent
man’s house ip his absence
and—not a move now—his
wife here alone? She's
| sick, too, and the shock

may killher, And, besides, good-
ness knows—take care there! Move
an inch and I'll shoot—goodness
knows what damage you've done
inmy kitchen. I'll bet you’ve—
keep that right hand up, or—I’ll
bet you’ve upset my buckwheat

the morning? Get right out of
here! Right about tace! Keep
your hands up—higher! March!”

The man marched.

Kitty halted him in the middle
of the cellar and, without for a
moment lowering her weapon, un-
locked the door. Then she marched
him out.

“Keep your hands above your
head and walk straight across the yard w that gate,
and don’t you come back, either.’’

The burglar again obeyed.

Kitty fastened the broken window, found her batter
allright and went back upstairs to sleep again as ir
nothing had happened.

JOE CRAIG.

(WITH PoRTRAIT.]
A clever young lightweight pugilist is Joe Craig, of
Belfast. He has fought several important battles and
can be matched against any man in Great Britain at

his weight.

SLID DOWN THE PLANK TO SAFETY.

[SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.)

A San Francisco boarding-house caught fire the other
morning before the guests were up, and the result was
a spectacle which hasn't been witnessed in many a day.
Among the boarders were two very plump and up-to-
date young Women, who have always been very prim
and proper. They had rooms on the second floor and
when the flames broke out there didn’t seem to he

ROFESSIONAL AND

amareur reeords of ever brauch of «pert See the
“Police Gazette Sporting Annual’ for 1897. Now on
sale at all newsdeaslers of from thi« office. Price %
cents. RICHARD K. FOX, Franklin Square, New
York. 149 Fleet street, London, E, C.

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. ”

much chance for them until a couple of sturdy sailor-
men grabbed a big gang-plank that lay in the street,
and with a little assistance managed to put one end on
the window where the girls were.

“Slide!’’ they yelled, and as the smoke was getting
thicker and the heat more intense, the girls concluded
to chance it. They stepped out together and the way
they came down the plank was a caution, Heady hands
at the foot of the chute grabbed them and they were
taken toa place of safety and the splinters removed
from their persons.

THEY GOT PAPA’S WAD.

(SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.)

A fine old gentleman of New Orleans, of the old
school, is responsible for the statement that there are
giris in that city who would not for a moment hesitate
to rob their best friends. He fell in with two fairies on
Canal street the other evening, and after a short walk
they induced him to walk into their parlor on Custom-
house street and indulge in a glassof wine. He liked
the girls and he liked the wine, and in a very short
time he was doing the couchee-couchee in his stocking
feet. Then he got something stronver than wine, so he
lay down upon a convenient sofa to think it over. He
doesn’t remember how long he was there, but when he
awoke he was bustiled out of the house in a great hurry.
When he got home and went through himself he
found someone else hid been there before him, and had
tuned him up to the extent of $1,763. He has a
mourning band about bis hat now.

HOW CUBAN WOMEN ARE TREATED.

[SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.]

Almost incredible stories of atrocities committed by
Spaniards continue to come from Cuba by almost every
steamer. The latest story is that which tells of the
soldiers under Colonel Fondesviela’s command, sta-
tioned at Guanabacoa, which is just across the bay
from Havana. The other night someone rushed
through the streets of the town shouting that the in-

‘**HERE’S TO EVERYBODY!”’

Her Father Thought His ‘‘Blue-Eyed Pet’? Was Working.

She Was, As Seen in the Picture.

surgents were coming. The inbabitants, alarmed by
the cry, rushed out of their homes, and as they
emerged they were shot down by the Spaniards.
Thirty men, women and children were killed and
their corpses left in the streets. One girl who fled in
her night clothes prayed for mercy, but she was as-
saulted by a Spanish soldier and then butchered with a
machete, It ixsignificant that none of the Spanish in-
habitants rushed from their homes, showing that they
had been warned by Colonel Fondesviela of the trap
laid for the Cubans.
Sedegtarndienctilppatee

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER SLAIN.

(SuBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.)

Mrs, Foley, a widow, and her unmarried daughter,
Fanny, were found murdered in their home, near Lib-
erty, Mo., early the other morning. No motive for the
crime is known.

William Foley. aged twenty-five, a son of the mar-
dered woman, had visited a neighbor and returning
home after midnight was the tirst to discover the dead
bodies. Motherand sister were found in their bed
room dressed in their nightgowns and bespattered with

blood. ‘Phey had both been shot, the mother through
the head and the daughter in the back. The assassin
or assassins had fired at Mrs. Foley through one of the
front windows. The bullet lodged in the head of the
bedstead. joth women evidently became frightened
and ran into the bedroom in the rear. The door was
then forced and the bloody work completed.

Sip FA.

iTS HS ATER

James Harvey Says That He
Killed His Wife.

tin

AND HE MAKES AN AFFIDAVIT

Both Are in Jail and the Town Is ina
Fever of Excitement.

WHO WAS IT KILLED THE WOMAN?

The people of Wilmington, O., have had enough sen-
sations recently to last them a long while, and they are
notall over yet. A short time ago James Harvey was
arrested and lodged in the county jail on a charge of
murdering his wife, Ida. He said nothing about the
crime until the other day, when he filed an affidavit
before the mayor in which he charged his father with
causing the death of his wife by beating and striking
her about the head and body.

The mystery that has surrounded this case from the
begining has proved a puzzle to the authorities, and
the officials have been trying to get a solution for some
time. Atthe time the woman was buried, young Har-
vey, her husband, broke down and was on the verge of
making a confession to the sheriff, but he was told by
his attorney not under any ,circumstances to talk of the
matter.

On this occasion he remarked there was something
within him that told him he must make some state-
ments; that there was another implicated, and he was
not the guilty party in the matter, and he asked that
his attorney be brought to the Jail.

When he came he was warned not to talk more,
and he closed up likeaciam. He has been uneasy and
restless ever since, and dropped a number of remarks
indicating that he was going to take some decided steps
in the matter.

One night he went to Merrick F. Jones, another in-
mate of the juil, and asked bim which of the authori-
ties that had talked to him he could trust.

Jones told him he could trust Deputy Sheriff Ben
South. He sent for the deputy,and told him that
when his father was in the jall, the day of the funeral,
he said to him he was willing to take ten or twelve
years in the penitentiary; that he was an old man and
it would not matter so much to him, while Harvey was
young. The old gentleman does not deny that he
might have made sucha remark. A couple of days
ago James asked the deputy to go and arrest his father,
charging him with the killing of his wife, but not to let
his attorney know it, The deputy refused, telling him
he had no authority, and called the sheriff. Tne sheriff
informed him there must first be an affidavit filed, to
which Harvey replied that he did not know whom to
recommend todo this. The sheriff would not do it
himself on Harvey's request, Harvey then said:

“Could I make that affidavit?”

The sheriff informed him that he would consult the
prosecutor and notify him. He did this, learned he
could, and communicated the fact to Harvey. Harvey

was then brought in the front room of the

jaf. He was repeatedly warned by the pros-
} ecutor and sheriff that if his father was

innocent he should not make the affidavit,
but if he was guilty it was the proper thing
to do.
._ Hesaid he understood the significance of
the act aud wanted to record the affidavit at
once. He was persuaded, however, to desist
until after the action of the grand jury, but,
again repeating his request, he was per-
mitted to file the affidavit, and in the pres-
ence of nearly a dozen persons, and after
the signing of the affidavit acknowledged
the signing of it to be his voluntary act.

It is said now, however, that he has changed

his story somewhat, and says his father might
have murdered Mrs. Harvey. He says he
was upstairs; tuat his father had gone away
from the house some time before with his
stepmother; that they had started to his
sister-in-law’s, Mrs. Jennie Harvey’s; that he
heard heavy footsteps in the kitchen, and
going down found Idalying there across the
wood-box, unconscious and alone. He fur-
ther says there is a by-road leading from the
main road back to the house on another side than
the regular road, by which his father could have re-
turned and done the act.
- Inthé afternoon Marshal Will Sliker and Deputy
Ben South returned from the Harvey home with the
father in custody, and locked him in the upstairs de-
partment of the County Jail. He said:

“T am innocent of any such charge, and bad no con-

nection with the affair whi tever. When my wite and ~

left home at about 12:30 that day to go to my
daughter-in-law’s, Ida was sitting at the table eating
ber dinner, James had madesome excuse and gone
upstairs, and she was alone. We left, and about 4
o'clock was notified, when on the way home, of her
death. James bad not eaten his dinner before I lett.
We wentin a buggy.’’

The old gentleman was considerably affected, and his
eyes filled with tears while talking of the occurrence.
He is nearly sixty-nine years of age, and is one of the
well-known citizens of the county, having been a resi-
dent there almost all his life, living on a. farm about
seven miles west of Wilmington, He has been married
twice, his last wife’s maiden name being* Moore, a
member of one of the oldest and best-known families in

that locality.

LL THE FISTIC EVENTS
for 1996, with portraits of the champions, sre given in
“Police Gazet'e Sporting Annual’ for 1897. Price 25

cents, at all newsdealers or from this office. RICHARD K.
FOX, Franklin Square, New York. 149 Ficet ‘street,
London

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

HOW CUBAN WOMEN ARE. TREATED.

THE AWFUL RAID MADE BY HEARTLESS SPANISH SOLDIERS UPON THE BEAUTIFUL AND
UNPROTECTED WIVES OF CUBAN INSURGENTS, AT THE TOWN OF .GUANABACOA.

THE NATIONAL POLICE (GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

TUTTI

: HACKED HER HEAD WITH A_ HATCHET.
DURING A FIT OF INSANITY, THE WIFE OF AN ARTIST OF PENSACOLA, FLA., INFLICTS FEARFUL WOUNDS.

i . yar wa

GQ a Ql q 7

ww ni tie
alt ; Ait i
q i i!

Hit

“HANDS UP!” YELLED KITTY.
HOW THE NERVE OF A_ PRETTY SERVANT, OF LITTLE ROCK, ARK., SAVED HER EMPLOYER’S PROPERTY.

10 _ THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

POINTS FOR GORRESPONDER

Information for the Curious Ones
Who Want To Know,

QUERIES CONCERNING SPORT

Popularity of the ‘‘Police Gazette’ as
a Ready Reference for All.

DECISIONS WHICH SETTLE WAGERS.

H. K., Bristo! Va.—Tenn. No.
. D., Kokomo, Iod.—B wins,

Futerp, Bisbee, Aris.—B is right.

L. B. V., Frankfort, Ky.—B wins. ‘

J. EB. H., Richmond, Va.—B wins, °

J. H. A., Richmond, Va.—C loses.

Reapes, New Castle, Pa.—B wins,

8. B., Florence, Col.—B wins the pot,

J. W. H., Havana, N. ¥.—He won both.

J.T. W., Memphis, Tenn.—About 3,000,

W. O'B., Forestport, N. ¥.—They did oot.

J. KB. K., Reynolds Bridge, Conn.—A wins,

J. G. H., Williamsport, Pa —Sept. 7, 1892.

P. T. K., Ithaca, N. ¥.—About 156 pounds,

0. H. W., Cleveland, 0.—Monroe Rosenfeld.

A. 4, P., Cleveland, 0.—The club hand wins.

P. K., Astoria, L. I.—Who has the strongest navy in the worldj?
oooeeIbngland,

J. 8., Brooklyn, N. ¥.—What is the age of Peter Jackson?......
Thirty next July.

L., Lois, 0.—What is the address of Carl Victor, the strong boy?
+ « Evansville, Ind.

P. E.B., Massena, In.—MoKinley carried 23 States, Bryan 22.
Chesdick takes the money.

J..W., Chicago, Ill.—A bets B that MoKinley carries twenty-three
Biates, Who wins?...... A wins.

H. J. B., Castle, Mont.—One elector out had no bearing apon the
fact that Kentucky was given to Bryan. Mr. H loses,

W.J.0., Albany, N. ¥.—Can an amateur ath‘ete be a stock-
holder in an amateur athletic club and still be an amateur?
tainly.

L. G. B., Milwaukee, Wis.—Did Lavigne ever get a decision in a
contest with Grifo? Ifso, where and how many rounds?......He
bas not.

P, G., Waverly, O.—If a hen and a half lays an egg and a half in
one day and a half, how many eggs will six heus lay in seven days?
seoee Chestnuts,

Reaper, Long Branch, N, J.—What part of the body was Bill
Poole shot in and how long did he live?......Right leg and breast.
He lingered a short while and died.

J. W., Shamokin, Pa.—Whatis the foul hackle in. Philadelphia
rules? Is it fair to pluck the feathers of a chicken or cut the shiners
off? ... .1t is fair to pluck, foul to cut.

J.C. C., Spickard, Mo.—Please inform me where to address a
letter to Barney Barnato. A bet Bit was Germany. B bet it was
not?..... B wins; to London England.

Aa. 8. C., Salisbury, N. C.—S bet that Bryan would carry Ken-
tucky; C.bet that McKinley would carry Kentucky, Who wins ?
MoKinley carried Kentucky, and © wins,

Marx, Dayton, 0.—What was the date of the Sullivan-Ryan
fight?...... Feb. 7, 1882. You should have a copy of the ‘Police Ga-
sette Sporting Anoual,’* it costs only 25 cents.

C. F. 8., Alexis, Ill.—How many olasses of fighters are recognized
by Marquis of Queensberry rules?.. ...Four; feather, light, middle
and heavy. Bantam and welter are special weights.

L. EB. H., Latham, Ill.—Who is the recognized champion heavy-
weight prize-fighter of the world?......The title is in dispute, de-
pendent upon the out of the Fitzsi Corbett match.

R. J., Nashotah, Wis.—A and B are playing poker; A has ace,

deuce, three, four and five of hearts; B has nine, ten, jack, queen
and king of hearts. Who wins?.....Bwins. Ace is low in A's
band.
6 L, G. McK., Hastings, Neb.—A bet B that Bryan would carry two
of the three Btates hereafter named—Kentucky, Indiana and Kan-
sas. Who wins?......He did not carry Indiana or Kentucky, and A
loses.

BK. A. D., New Haven, Conn.—I made a bet that Corbett was
champion heavyweight of the world. It was left for you to de-
cide?......¥You lose. The title is in dispute, pending the outcome of
the forthcoming fight.

Tux Bauxawiox, Willimantic, Conn.—Let me know how the fight
between Kid McCoy and Ted White of England came out and how
many rounds they fought and if there was a knockout?......White
was given the decision on points. There was no knockout.

B. C., Barberton, O.—A bets B that the sun is closer to the earth

io winter than it isin the summer? Was there ever a man went
over Niagara Falls and through the rapids avd came out alive?......
1. Awins, 3. Yes; a man named Graham went through in a
barrel.
* G.W. C., Lewell, Mass.—What handwill beat the deck ina
game of draw poker? Ina game of common pool, if I shoot ata
ball and the ball goes if the pocket and also the cue ball, do I have
to spot that ball and another one from the rack?...... 1, A royal
flush. 2, Yea.

M. 8., Danville, Va.—A pot is opened, aces up, two hands lay, it
is then raised; the opener then discovers he has six cards and
claims misdea!. Is his hand dead and the other man wins the pot,
or should the cards be dealt over again?......The hand is dead and
the other man wins the pot.

R. 0. F., Fort Apache, A. T.—A bets B that thé fight will not
last four roun@s; one of the contestants gets knocked out in the
middie of the fourth round. Who wins?......If the contestant is
knocked out In the middle of the fourth round the fight does pot last
through four rounds, and A wins.

F. K., Telluride, Col.—4 bets B §7 to $5 on a fight. B accepts
the bet; nothing is stated as to a draw. The fight is declared a
draw. Does B get the §2 odd mouey or not?... . Certainly not.
Each side taked down his money. In horse racing the §12 would
be pooled and divided on a dead heat. ,

W.C., Providence, R. 1.—Give me information concerning the
following potuts: Thename of a good book upon the care and breed-
ing of ciiuaries (price snd publisher's name, if possibte). Is the
Powges Gaserre Supplement for May, 1896, still obtainable ?......
Send your street address and we will write you.

J. W., Iquique, Chile.—In a common game of poker (not a jack-
pot) bets are exchanged, until finally A calls B, who, of course.
shows his cards; A throws up his hand and B rakes in the chips. Is

A obliged to show his hani’?...... He is not obliged to do so; throwing
up his hand is equivalent to acknowledging that it is beaten.

Constawr Reapex, Philadelphia, Pa.—How often did Jem Mace
and Joe Goss Gght? Was John L. Sullivan married before his
reputed marriage to Anna Livingston? Give me Duncan C. Ross’
address... ..1. Three times; one draw and two victories for Mace, 2.

Sullivan's private affairs cannot-interest you. $. Care of this office

Sraxenoipes, Cumberiand, Md.—A bet B he could not name six-
teen States that Bryan would carry; among them he named Ken-
tucky; B claims be wins because Bryan got first elector on ticket.

o-seesld loses, The majority of the slecjurs gave the State to Mo

McKiuley The first elector on the ticket business cuts no
figure.

T. Cuca, New York.—Would you kindly inform us if a chartered
socia! club, meeting in the rear of saloon, can participate iu boxing,

no fee being charged, sald boxing among memb-rs, aod members
only being aimitted. Kindly let us koow if same Is lawful, and
also if police have any right to stop it?. ....1t would not be lawful io
New York State.

F.N., Pultoo, N. ¥Y.—A party and myself had an argument in re-
gard to the head on a 5-cent piece (nickel). We were matching
pieces of money and on uncovering the pieces there was exposed a
nickel with the side stamped with 5 turned up, aod « quarter with
the head side turned up. He claimed that he won as the 5 was
head, and I claimed I won, claiming that the date is always on the
head......The head of all coins is that upon which the date Is given

C. F. H., Sioux City, Ia.—In the Presidential election, A bets B
that McKiuley would carry more States than Bryan. B bets Bryan
would carry more States than McKinley. The bet now hinges on
two States, Kentucky and Califoraia. Does either candidate carry
these States, or in other words are bets that were made on Kentucky
and California, are they draw bets, or are they decided in favor of
either candidate?...... Yes, McKinley carried both States. Bets de-
cided in McKinley's favor.

Vv. H. M., Seymour, Ind.—Several parties here who bet on Ken-
tucky in the recent election agree to be guided by what you say as
to who wins, those who bet on McKinley carrying that State or those
that bet that he would not? Of course, those who bet that Bryan
would not get a majority of the electoral vote of Kentucky are all
right. But parties here still have money not taken down who
simply bet that McKinley would carry Kentuoky...... McKinley got a
majority of the electoral votes which gave him the State. All bets
on the State go with the majority of electoral votes.

THE “‘ POLICE GAZETTE ” IN NEW ZEALAND,

Avucx.anp, New Zealand, Dec. 25, 1896.

Ma. Ricnuarp K. Fox, Esq.— Dear Sir: 1 have received all of
your Potscs Gazerres up to date, aud many thanks for the photo
of my California Athletic Club of New Zealand, which appeared in
the issue of Oct. 24th, They are all on file to the great delight and
benefit of the sporting community of this country. All branches of
sport are booming here just now, especially in the wrestling line, I
have been in Aucklaud ove month, training for a catch-as-catch-
ean wrestling match with J. W. Sutherland, the champion of New
Zealand, for a $500 side wager and the championship. The affair is
creating a great des! of excitement in sporting circles, and no doubt
the stakes will be lucreawd. This is the largest side wager ever
wrestled for in this country. The match takes place on Thursday,
Deo. Sist. I will send you by next mail full particulars of the re-

CORBETT TRAINING
FOR

HE FIGHT.

ain a

Says That He Does Not. Intend to Take Any Chance of
Being Out of Condition On March 17.

HOW HE SPENDS HIS DAYS IN THE GYMNASIUM.

Dan Stuart's Headquarters at Reno, Ney., Indicate That the Battleground

May Be Located at

Carson City, Ney.

CORBETT SAYS HE JS WILLING

Less than seven weeks to elapse before the date of the long-de-
ferred meeting between James J. Corbett and Robert Fitzsimmons
for a side stake of $10,000, a purse of $15,000, offered by Dan A.
Stuart, and the ‘Police Gazette’ diamond belt, emblematic of the
pugilistic championship of the world, a combination of incentives
unparalleled in the history of pagilistic sport.

According to the articles of agreement signed by both men and
in the possession of Dan A. Stuart, they will meet on March 17
next, ata place to be named on Feb. 17. The battleground will
probably be either in Mexico or the vicinity of Carson City, Nev.
Stuart has established his headquarters at Reno, Nev., a fact which
urges the belief that the last uamed place will be selected for
locating the ring. Reno is very accessible to Carson City and
arrangements may be perfected for the ‘-mill’’ from this point with-

EE Seren na

Fred. Hall, the Fancy and Trick Billiardist and Pool Player.

sult. Tam thinking of paying you a visit shortly, and on my ar-
rival I vill be prepared to wrestle any 150-pound man in America
for from $500 to $1,000, either at catch-as-catch-can or Grmco-
Roman, I will also bring with me two of the best pugilists in this
country, who arc looking for championship honors. Donald Dinnie,
the Scotch athlete, 's keeping a restaurant here and looks as well as
ever in his kilts, which he wears daily, I would like you to make
an announcemeo’: in your paper of my intended visit to America
and challenge. In fact,do as you please with any of my letters
and if I can do anything for you or your paper in return please let
me know and I will be only too happy to do it. Wishing you a
merry Christmas and a happy New Year, I am yours truly,
Samus. Matuews,
Auckland, New Zealand.

ANOTHER VICTORY FOR LEON.

The ‘‘ Dago”’ Bantam Champion Wins a De-
cision Over Jack McKeck.

At the Union Park A. C., New York city, on Jan. 18, the event of
the evening was the bout between Casper Leon and Jack MoKeck,
both of New York city. They were matched to go fifteen rounds,
the weight being 112 pounds. When the bell rang Leon got to work.
He had the longer reach and got his left to the body repeatedly.
McKeck's blows were nearly all stopped, Leon taking things coolly
and waiting for a chance to put in a settler, Leon continued to do
the bulk of the work in the second and third rounds, but McKeck's
defense was clever. McKeck consented to do some leading in the
sixth round, and in a bit of infighting he caught Leon on the jaw
with a short left hook which made Casper slip down on one knee.
Leon got up quickly, however, and sailed im vigorously, Still Me-
Keck held his own. The seventh was even. When the eighth
opened Leon began rushing. Jack was a trifle groggy, but he
stayed the round. MecKeck came up strongly in the ninth, and
neither bad an advantage in the tenth. Leon showed signs of
fatigue in the eleventh, but braced in the twelfth and landed a
couple of heavy rights. McKeck rallied and made au even bresk of
the round, Leon cut loose in the thirteenth, but his an‘agonist did
just as well, the fighting growing fast and furious. Io the four-
teenth Leon again resorted to rushing, and soon staggered Jack.
The last round was all in Leon's favor, aud Referee Tom O'Rourke
gave him the decision.

Wi 45K G, RUNNING,
Etc., Up-to-date records. See the “Police Gazette
Sporting Annual’’ for 1897. Now ready. Price 25

cents. At all newsdealers or from this office. RICH-
ARD EK. FOX, Franklin Square, New York. 149 Ficet

street, London, B. 0,

out compromising Stuart for his refusal to announce the exact loca
tion,

Fitzsimmons is in New York, presumably waiting for news from
Stuart before establishing himself iu training quarters.

Corbett, on the other hand, is already training, following out a
line of action which began with a mild preliminary course at Asbury
Park, N. J., late in the summer, and continued carefully up to the
present time. His intention Is to goto California on a visit to his home
about the first of the month, after which he will locate his training
quarters within easy access to the battleground, D.n Stuart having
agreed to give Fitzsimmons and him a ‘‘quiet’’ tir sufficiently far
in advance to enable them to select desirable . ~- ‘.s for estab-
lishing training quarters.

As yet Corbett is just as much in ignorance of the precise locality
of the battleground as anybody else. When asked the other day
where he would train, he said:

“Well, I can’t answer that,as I do not know where Mr. Stuart
intends to have us fight. If be picks out a piace in the Seuth or io
Mexico I will train in Texas, as I like the climate and can arrange
matters there quickly. lam not anxious about the training part of
it, as I consider myself in very good condition now. I have been
taking the best care of myself for several months and have been
doing light work for nine weeks. I am now heavy aad feel as
strong and fast as I ever did, so the final preparation does not worry
me. Of course one cannot do himself justice in training when he
has other things on his hands, as I have, but I have made the best
of it and am satisfied with the result,”

The show will close about the first of next month and by that time
training quarters will have been selected.

For the past ten or twelve weeks Corbett has been undergoing a
course of light preliminary training. Even while “on the road’’ he
rarely allowed a day to go by without spending two or three hours
in a local gymnasium. While in New York he frequented Wood's
gymouasium daily. His method was, after alight breakfast at the
Gerlach, to repair at once to Wood's, accompanied by Manager Ed
Thurnaer, Sparring Partner Con McVey anda helper. Soon after
arriving the champion was busy changing to his gymoasium cos-
tume, and at 11:30 o'clock he entered the room.

First he tackled the flying rings to limber himself up some, and
then he hit the bag a few punches. He tugged ata chest machine,
then, taking a very smal! pair of dumb-bells, he began systematic
exercise, going through a number of motions until he felt the effects.
After this came the chest weight, with all the weight on, and he
worked hard for a few minutes. He seemed to change very quick!»
from one to the other, and did not drag his steps in moving about.
A skillful partner was there to play handball with him, and they
were at it.

Corbett is an adept at handball. He serves finely and his work is
quick and sure. He did not seem to tire in the least, and while the

TO SWELL THE SIDE WAGER.

kept up for over a half hour, and then Corbett tried the wrist ma-
chine, working at it for some time. Corbett then put on the gloves
with any of his friends who happened along, somet/mes with little
Johnny Bebrens, the 105-pound boxer, of Detroit. When the latter
put on the gloves the exhibition was amusing, the one towering over
six feet and weighing 185 pounds or so, and the other five feet three
inches and weighing about 110. The idea was Corbett's own, and
he coaxed Bebrens to hit him as often ashe could. The little fellow
found a bard undertaking before him and his leads fell short,
scarcely ever passing the gloved guard. Corbett was dancing and
jumping, the bout helping him in leg work.

The last feature was the sparring between Corbett and McVey.
They went three rounds, the first of five minutes, the second of
seven and the third of about twelve. Corbett was all over, out and
in, dodging and ducking, and McVey could not land on him, Me-
Vey tried for the face in the first round, but never reached the head.
Later they rehearsed blows, and Corbett iudulged in his drawing on
of his opponent. He would poke his head out, and a lead from Mc-
Vey meant an escape and areturn. McVey was thoroughly tired at
the end, while Corbett was fresh and ready to go another hour. In
all, he had worked fast for an hour and a half, and was distressed
but very little. Corbett followed with a long run on the indoor
track in the gallery and even this did not wind him. Meantime
McVey was relieving himself, having stopped in the t b se
of a blow on the stomach. McVey said it was in the close work and
the punch was a short right which made him very weary.

Corbett at work and Corbett at play are two different individuals,
On the stage and in talk he is very mild-mannered and easy-going,
but there is a set look about him when he starts working. Jn the

| sparring he did not give a stage exhibition, but with set eyes and a

vicious look, he was business throughout. In his fight with Sulll-
van it was said that he had the look of a fiend as it progressed, and
it is easily understood that such a thing is right.

As far as Corbett going back is concerned, that is the veriest rot.
He is as fast as ever, is stronger and his wind now seems strong
enough to stand him good in a longer fight than was that with Sul-
livan. He has developed about the shoulders and neck and his fists
shoot out quickly when he lets go, his aim, too, being excellent.
There are no wasted swings, the entire work showing science, and
there is a reason for his every return. In the clinches he is strong
and can give McVey, who is a big, strong wrestler, all he wants in
the breakaway. And Corbett is very handy with a punch when
they come to close quarters.

His work was surprising forthe speed and stamina shown. The
hard part of the game will come during the month preceding the
fight. Then it will be no child's play, but stern, rigorous devotion
to duty under Charley White's direction. The latter prepared Fitz-
simmons at Coney Island and Corpus Christi for the meeting with
Corbett at Hot Springs, and bis aid will be invaluable to Corbett
now.

Speaking about the site of the proposed battle ground the other
day, Corbett said:

“I only hope Mr. Stuart will not be troubled ia locating the place.
This thing has been prolonged until the people are naturally tired,
and you can say for me that I will be on hand and ready w fight.”

Regarding the complaint made by Fitzsimmons in relation to the
outside privileges, such as photographing the battle, Corbett said he
did not blame Fitzsimmons, as he had objected tolt. If there is to
be any more money than the purse in the match he wants his part
of it, and the statement that Stuart had agreed to do the right thing
in case he let any privilege of the sort seemed to suit him. But as
to the amount of the stake he did not like the intrpretation from
the Fitzsimmons side.

“I put up $5,000 for my share of the stake when I signed the arti-
cles,"’ he observed, ‘‘and also gave Mr. Smith $2500 to guarantee
my appearance in thering. AsI before stated, that was when I
had a match with Sharkey in view, and did not want to put up
$10,000 in each affair at the same time. He now says he fs willing to
make it $10,000 a side, and all I can say in reply is that I will at-
tend to that ina short time. When I was in New York and wrote to
him about making it $10,000 he never answered by letter, but now
that 1 am in the far West this is «prungon me, There is no ques-
tion about the stake if they really want it twice the amount I have
deposited, but I want to see their $5,000 up first. When itis in Al
Smith's hands I will talk business."’

M’KEEVER NOT SO GOOD.

Jack Daly, of Wilmington, Gave Him a Warm
Argument.

Charley McKeever the other evening adopted such foul tactics in
his bout in Philadelphia with Jack Daly, of Wilmington, that had
the contest been for a decision he would have been disqualified.
There were nearly 3,000 persons present, and the man who has de-
signs on the lightweight championship aroused the indignation of
the spectators to such a pitch that they hissed and hooted him to
such an extent that twice im the fourth round the referee had to stop
the boxers and threaten to end the go at that stage. The set-to was
ot the hurricane order all the way through, and while Daly had the
advantage of the first two rounds, McKeever had the better of the
last four. McKeever's fouls were committed iu the breakaways, and
were so palpable that every one in the building saw them, one being
committed while Daly had both his arms outstretched and was
breaking as clear as possible. Although McKeever had the better of
the bout, Daly was wildly cheered by the spectators as he left the
ring, while a wave of hisses swept over the house and not one man
applauded when McKeever moved toward the dressing-room.

There were several preliminary bouts. Danny McMahon, of De-
troit, bested Paddy McPhillips, of Philadelphia, and Stanton Ab-
bott, the English lightweight, and Jack Bennett, of Pittsburg, boxed
six rounds with honors about even.

FRED HALL.
(Wrrea Porrrarr.}

A veritable wizard of the pool table is Fred Hall, who challenges
the world to produce his equal in fancy and trick pool playing
Mr. Hall was originally from New York, but is now living at Nor-
walk, Conn. Lately he has been giving exhibitions at Maurice
Daly's billiard hall on Broadway, New York.

Pein: TROTTING,

Runaoiog records for 1896 are given in the “Police Ga-
zette Sporting Annual.’ Just published. Price 25
cents. Atall newsdealers or from this office. RICH-

| other was resting be would play alone, The bandball work was

ARD EK. FOX, Franklia Square, New York. 149 Fiest
rest, London,

Fes &tegvey

ss co =

Se ee

FF weTTwe we wv Sa

SS ES SS '\!

PernseereesesvewrT nm Fr ="

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. <n

NS TUDE

Carson City, Nev., the Probable
Scene of the Big Fight.

DIXON, THE FISTIC WONDER,

Creedon Doesn't Seem Anxious to Fight
McCoy in South Africa.

ANOTHER HORTON LAW AMENDMENT.

tie

In the absence of anything more important
the idle persiflage of current comment seems to be directed to the prob-
able location where the big fight will take place rather than the more
perplexing one which involves the possibility of it not taking place
atall, Strange as it may seem, Dan Stuart's efforts to locate a
battlegrouud are affording the sporting fry, big and little, more con-
cern than the question whether Bob and Jim will be there when the
eventful and auspicious time arrives. As I have said before, there
seems to be a settled conviction in everybody's mind that the two
mean business, aud that if any bitch occurs this time the fault will
be laid at the door of the big Texan projector.

Certain it is that that worthy gentleman is doing all he can to
mystify the public regarding his ultimate intentions in the way of
selecting a spot upon which the long-deferred and anxiously awaited
settlement of the controversy may be effected. One day the story
emanates, from some presumably reliable source, that Mexico will
have the hovur of entertainiug the two fistic celebrities and their
friends on St. Patrick's Day. Stuart hardly lets the types grow
cold before he is out with a denial, backed up with a significant
refusal to aid in solving the problem. If Nevada is suggested an
equally strenuous denial comes forth, corroborated in a by

prize ring record that might be cut off in yard lengths. It took
Creedon four rounds to put acrimp in bis career, and the cham
piouship aspirations of the man from Salt Lake were nipped in the
bad.

Since that eventful episode Creedon has been ‘resting,’ as they
say in theatrical parlance, in expectation of getting something
definite in the way of news from the gold country in response to the
acceptance of McCoy's challenge, which I cabled over early In the
week. If Creedon really wants a match which involves champion
ship honors he needn't go so far away from home in search of it.
John Quinn, who is Peter Maher's financial man, has a middie-
weight unknown whom he will match against either Creedon or Mo-
Coy, at weight, and bet §2,500 on the side. There is also seme talk
of matching Peter Maher against Creedon, but I do net believe
the latter or his backers would seriously consider such a propo-
sition.

Strange as it may seem, Creedon has not evinced any very great

t of enthusi over the offer to meet McCoy in Johannesburg.
His acceptance was something of a compromise affair, occasioned by
the fact that the local followers of the game were woodering why he
hesitated almost two weeks before giving the slightest inthaation
regarding his intentions. It may be that he regards a $5,000 purse
in London with more favor than a purse of three times that size iu
Jobannesburg. MoCoy is evidently anxious to get on with
Creedon, and if the latter is really as anxious to meet MoCoy as
he professes to be, it should rot be very long before they come to-
gether.

Some pugilists seem to know when they
have had enough. Steve O'Donnell is still talking fight, or rather
his energetic, but voluble, manager is, which is about the same
thing, only more so. Last week when the latter was making another
determined effort to inject Steve into the pugilistic whirl, he coupled
the latter’s name with Joe Choynski with such persistency that
“Parson” Davies felt it becoming in him to “get into the game.”
He replied with an offer to match Choynski against O'Donnell for the
entire gate receipts, with the additional consideration of authorizing
a convenient friend to wager $1,000 with another convenient friend of
the opposing side on the result. He also offered to match Bob Arm-
strong against O'Donnell for the entire purse or gate receipts. Up
to date nothing further has been heard from the O'Donnell end, a
fact which leads me to doubt the sincerity of his intentions.

0’ Dennell’s place just now seems to be upon the remnant counter.

The recent unfortunate incident which re-
sulted in the death of boxer Duffy seems to have been the stepping
stone to legislative action which will preclude the possibility of
such a thing happening again. Mr. Horton, the able gentleman
who framed the measure which gave to athletic clubs in New York
State the privilege to conduct boxing shows under certain restric-
tions, has framed an amendment to the now existing law and intro.

WN PUGLISTIGA SEAL

Events of Passing Interest That
Merit Criticism,

BRNE AND DIXON MATCHED.

Austin Gibbons Wants Another Shy at
the Lightweight Title.

JEM SMITH IS STHLL IN THE GAME.

Sammy Kelly says that, win or lose, he will sail fer Eng-
tand the day after his battle with Jimmy Barry.

Tom Sharkey is touring the southern part of California
giving boxing exhibitions under Jack MoAulifie's management.

Corbett says he will not retire if de is successful against

Fitzsimmons. He degiares he will always be ready to defend the —
title.

Al Smith will chaperon « party of twenty prominent
business men from New York to the scene of the Corbett-Fitzsim-
mons fight.

Boston boxing clubs say they were the frst to adopt
postiess rings, padded floors and medica! inspection of contestants so
that injuries did not osour.

Tom Causer, who was lately defeated by Eddie Connolly,
announces his !utention of coming to America and meeting any man
here at his weight. Osnuser is a lightweight.

If Mayor Wurster, of Brooklyn, N. ¥., wants to confer a
favor upon the sporting community he will revoke the Heenses of the
irresponsible clubs that are duping people every other day in the
week under his nose. The Mayor knows what is going on at Coney

a vague hint to prepare for a trip to Mexico. Then we hear ramorfs
about some mysteriously located island in the Rio Grande, which
was purchased by Stuart for the pu: pose, and over which neither the
Government of Mexico nor the United States have any jurisdiction.

In the midst of the controversy Stuart calmly moves his traps and
belongings to Reno, Nev., and proceeds to attend to the preliminary
details of the impending affair from that remote centre.

Surface indications wouldn't any more point to Nevada being the
theatre of action than any of the bordering States or Territories, but
recalling certain correspondence which I was permitted to see at
the time negotiations were pending for Corbett and Sharkey to meet
for the second time, [am now impressed with the belief that the
city of Carson, Nev., will figure upon the pages of contemporaneous
history as the scene of the most important fistic event the world has
ever seen.

When Corbett and Sharkey were negotiating for a second meet-
ing the National Club of San Francisco startled the fistic world
with an offer of a $20,000 purse. The receipts for any boxing show
given in the Californian metropoiis failed to justify such seeming
extravagance, and the authenticity ‘of the offer, and the responsi
bility of the projectors were questioned until it trauspired that the
leading citizens of Carson were at the back of the proposed affair.
After figuring out the boom value to the city and the financial profit
to be netted from the visitors who might be counted upon to come in
by the thousands, the Carsonites saw their way clear to giving a
bonus of $15,000 to the National Club people, leaving the latter to
manage the affair and make whatever surplus there was over and
above the $5 000 additional toward making up the purse,

Everything went along swimmingly for a time and it looked
mighty like as if Corbett and the Sailor would have it out. How-
ever, before things got down to a business point some one had an at-
tack of ‘‘cold feet." Fitz cut in and busted the conuecting thread
with an offer to fight Sharkey; it looked like casy money to the
Californiaus and they took iton. Then came the talk about Fitz-
simmons and Corbett. Just prior to the time they got ready for
action | happened one day to drop something to Wheelock, Stuart's
Fidus Achatcs, about the Carson City bonus, and in his suave, un-
compromising and seeming indifferent way he remarked that it
was worth looking into.

The way he said it didn’t indicate much interest in the matter,
but he evidently didn’t lose any time in letting Stuart know all the
facts, for a few days after the latter made a hurried visit to the
metropolis and we talked it wver.

Having no personal interest in the affair, I dismissed the subject
from my mind uutil it was recalled the other day when I learned
that Stuart bad established his headquarters at Reno, Nev., within
striking distance of Carson, and that the telegraph companies were
planning the erection of an independent line between the two cities
for the purpose of giving increased telegraphic facilities.

If I am correct in surmising that Carson City, with the bonus,
etc., ete., is part of Stuart's scheme, I can oaly reassure him of my
best wishes in his success. He is deserving of all the profit to be
made out of the venture. He proved himself to be a daring, cour-
ageous sportsman when, in the face of the Hot Springs flasco and
the losses entailed in bringing Fitz and Maher together, he devoted
his time, labor and energy toward bringing Fitz and Corbett into the
ring, a scheme the mere contemplation of which, under the circum
stances, would have thrown more experienced promoters into
hysterics.

George Dixon’s victory over Australian Billy
Murphy the other night was quick and decisive. The long-legged
foreigner made a showing in the first couple of rounds which was
well calculated to give the adherents of the co!ored wonder some un
easiness, but after that there was no doubt—beyond the usual
chance factor—about the result, The “Little Torpedo,” as Harry
Weldon calls him, proved to be a “‘werry cunnin’ gent."" When he
found himself lacking the ability to force the pace himself, and an-
able to sto» the terrible volley of left-hand punches which were be-
ing shot into his face, neck and body, with rare discernment and
discretion he gracefully took advantace of the first opportunity that
was afforded him to “‘turnitup." That was the opinion of Referee
Roche and hundreds of others who sat up close to the ringside and
in a position to see in minute detail everything that was going on.
In the third round he looked as if he didn t want togo any further, but
Dixon, who expressed a determination to give hin: a good walloping
in return for past offences, ‘‘pulled a bit’ to enable Murphy to steady
himself. The affair was too one-sided to deserve any extended ref-
erence.

Diaon's defeat of Murphy makes it more apparent than ever
that the forwer should be given another chauce at Erne. When he
met the latter recently he was clearly 1, conditioned and ip no
shape to make a fight. He has remedied his faults, corrected his
habits and settled down tohard work. He never wasin better con
dition than the other night. Had he looked as carefully to his
preparation for the Erne affair, the latter never could have earned a
decision over him.

The two are matched azsain, however,to fight either at Dan

Stuart's carnival or wuerever the best inducements can be obtained.
if under Stuart's auspices it will be a finish affair, but if under a
tucal club the duration of the bout will be twenty five rounds,
lad

The fact that negotiations are pending for a
match between Dan Creedon and McCoy, to take piace in South
Africa some time in April, does not seem to have a deterrent effect
yoo the local matchmakers in their effurts to secure the Austra
lian’s services. Only last week the latter had a chance to add

another victory to bis record by defeating a ‘duck by the came of
dim Williams, whe camefeut of the wild and woolly Wem with «

Chas. Cougle, One of Chicago's Best-Known Sporting Men.

duced it at Albany, where it is now under consideration by the law
makers, The amendment Is as follows:—

“But no »erson shall take part, as a principal, in a sparring exhi-
bition except on the certificate of two duly licensed physicians,
stating that they have examined said principals twice; once three
days and once two hours previous to the exhibition, and that such
principals are in proper physical condition to take part in a sparring
exhibition,’

The full bill will then be as follows:

“Prize Fighting and Sparring Exhibitions, Aiding Therein, etc.—
A person who, within this State, ergages in, instigates, aids, en-
courazes or does any act to further a contention, or fight, without
weapons, between two or more persons, or a fight commonly called a
ring or prize fight, either within or without the State, or who en-
gages in a public or private sparring exhibition, with or without
gloves, within the State, at which an admission fee is charged or re-
ceived, either directly or indirectiy, or who sends or publishes a
chailenge, or acceptance of a challenge for such a contention, exhi
bition or fight, or carries or delivers such a challenge or acceptance,
or trains or assists any person in training or preparing for such a
contention, exhibition or fight, is guilty of a misdemeanor; provided,
however, that sparring exhibitions with gloves of not jess than five
ounces each in weight may be held by a domestic incorporated ath
letic association in a building leased by it for athletic purposes only
for at least one year, or in a building owne1 and occupied by such
association, but no person shall take part,as a principal, ina
sparring exhibition except on the certificate of two duly licensed
physicians, stating that they have examined said principals twice;
once three days, and once two hours previous to the exhibition, aud
that such principals are in proper physical condition to take part in
a sparring exhibition,

“This act shall take effect September first, eighteen hundred and
ninety -seven."*

The hullabaloo and cry raised by pulpit and press against the so-
catied boxing evil seems to necessitate the amendment to the law
going®into effect at once. As it is, all the leading clubs are employ
ing physicians for the purpose suggested, and a prompt and ready
acquiescence to public demand to prevent a repetition of the previous
unfortunate occurr¢hce will soften the now prevailing sentiment
against the sport. .

SAM AUSTIN.

UST THE BOOK

you weed. The *Police Gazetwe Sporting Aanual’’ for
1897. The only thoroughly reliable record of sporting
eveots. Now on sale. Price 26 cents at al! newsdesiers
or from this office, RICHARD K, FOX, Franklin
Square, New York. 148 Fleet street, Leadon, B. O.

Island, but is blind to the buaco games practiced within easy dis
tance of City Hall.

It seems hard for Jem Smith te quit the ring entirely.
He has undertaken to stop George Chrisp ia eight rounds or forfeit
$500. The bout will occur in London, Feb. 22.

Another club has been incorporated in Mew York city
under the provisions of the Horton law to give sparring exhibitions.
It is known as the Fifth Avenue Athietic Club.

Dick @’Brien met Eddie Binney. of Boston, in an ecight-
round bout at Bangor, Me., recentiy, which was declared a draw,
The bout was very tame and did not please the spectators.

Jim Daly's jaw, which was broken by Kid McCoy, has
knit all right, aud Jim wants to get back into the ring. He talks of
a match with Steve O Donnell. Waat « treat that would bel

Tommy Eyan, the welterweight pugilist, has written to
Tom O Rourke, of New York, offering to meet Kid Laviene at 145
pounds, providing a suitable purse is offered by the Broadway Ath
letic Club.

Frank Erne, of Buffalo, and Martin Flaherty, of Bostes,
are matched to come together in a 20-round bout at the bexing show
which will be pulled of ia the New York A.C, on Feb. 20. They
meet at 126 pounds.

Jack McDonald, the well-known Eastern bookmaker and
plunger, says he would take any part of $15,000 io Corbett's stake,
so if Pitzsimmens desires to locrease the stake to $20,000 he cas be
easily accommodated.

Austin Gibbons knocked out Wiley Evans, of California,
in the second ronad at Paterson, N.J., resemtiy. After the contest
Gibbous declared he was prepared to meet apy lightweight for the
chawpionship of the worid.

On Jan. 16, Joe Waleott, the colored welterweight,
and Bubby Dobbs, also colored, met do a six roued bout at the
Southside A.C. Philadelphia. No decision was given but Walcott
bad a shade better of the contest.

Matt Palmer, a brother of Pedlar Palmer, has decided
to ewter the ring, aod has issued a chailenge to meet avy 108 pound
boxer in Fogiand, Johnay Thomas has accepted and a match will
shortly be arranged for twenty rounds, .

Dan Stuart may arrange a istic carnival of three days
and Sharkes and Peter Maher may figure in one of the contests. He
does not know what boxers will participate in the other fights but
believes that Jimmy Barry will be one of them.

The match between Mysterious Billy Smith and Paddy
Purtell, of Kamens Clty, which was to have been decided at the

Bohemian Sporting Clab, has been declared off for good. Smiths
broken wrist will not be well in time for the battle.

Efforts are being made to get Owen Zeigler, of Phila-
delpbia, to box Sam Tookins, of Astoria, but the chances are that the
bout will not be arranged, as Tonkins wants the weight to be at 142
pounds, and Zeigler only fights at 135 to 138 pounds.

Mike Farragher was knocked out by ‘‘Spike’’ Sullivan in
New York on Jan 16. In the eleventh round Sullivan crossed over
his right, catching Farragher on the point of thejaw. Farragher
fell to the floor of the ring, and, being unable to rise, was counted
out

Prank Erne of Buffalo, and George Dixon have been
seoured by Ernest Crowhurst, matchmaker of the Quaker City A.
C., of Philadelphia, to box six rounds at the Clubon Feb. 1. They
meet at 124 pounds, weigh in at 3oclock ou the day of the con-
test. °

Friends and admirers of Arthur Chambers in Philadelphia
are talking of giving the ex-lightweight champion @ benefit in that
city shortly. Chambers is broke like John L. and other old timers.
It is proposed to have him spar with John H. Clark, his old-time
antagonist.

Howie Hodgkins, Joe Walcott's manager, doesn't seem to
be a bit worried over the reports that Joe has gone back. He said
thas Walcott would fight Kid Lavigne at 188 pounds, Tommy Ryan
at 150 pounds, Dan Oreedon at 158 pounds, or any man in the world
at 142 pounds.

Jack Williams of New Orleans, is in New York city look-
ing fora match. He will box any 126 pound man in the world.
Williams is the biggest 126 pound man in the country. He is built
on the Australian plan. Until quite recently he was boxing in
structor of the Pensacola A. C. of Florida.

It is proposed to hold a benefit for the reliefof the
family of the late Jimmy Duffy, the pugilist, who are left in needy
clroumstances by the death of the only breadwinner in the family,
The Palace Theatre, Boston, has been seoured for the benefit, which
will take place on Sunday evening, Jan. 31.

Tommy White, the featherweight champion of Chicago,
who recently fought Solly Smith a 20-round draw, says that he
would be pleased to go to England and meet Willie Smith, of Eng-
land, in a 20-round contest before the National Sporting Club of
Landon, or the Olympic Clad of Birmingham.

A vicious ight between Billy Duke, of Baltimore, and
Jack Mullen, of New York, took place at the Macou, Ga., Athietic
Association on Jan, 15. It was to have been & 20-round bout, but
Duke floored Mullen in the eighth round by a powerful right hand
awing on the side of the jaw, which proved a knock out blow. e

Joe Connolly, of Newark, manager for Charley Strong,
the colored heavyweight boxer, tried to match Strong against Dan
Creedon for twenty rounds for the purse offered by the Myers
Atbletio Club, of Albany, bat Oreedon said that he did not intend
to box heavyweights and the arrangements fell through in a hurry.

At the Manhattan Club, Cincinnati, on Jan. 12, George
Stout of Okiahoma was given the decision over Mike Norton of Cin-
eipnati in the fifth round. The contest was to have been ten
rounds. Up to the fifth round Norton had all the best of it. In the
GRh round Stout landed a terrific blow over Norton's heart, knook-
fag the latter out.

Jack Bonner, the middleweight boxer of Summitt Hill,
Pa., and Nick Burley, of California, met in a six-round bout at the
Tuxedo A.C. in Philadelphia the other night, but in the third
round Burley was forced to quit. Aswift one on the jaw sent
Burley to the floor and after he had been helped to a seat, he con-
cluded that he had enough.

Amatch will probably be arranged in a few days be-
tween Dan Oreedon, of Australia, and Tommy Ryan, of Syracuse,
After the Creedon- Williams contest in Albany recently, Lem Wager,
of the Manhattan A. C., of Troy, offered Creedon a good-sized purse
to meet Ryan at one of his monthly boxing shows. Ryan has
already accepted the offer.

The Carson City location for the Corbett-Fitzsimmons
fight was almost confirmed by Corbett the other night. He has
evidently been advised by Stuart and has shaped his plans acoord-
ngly. He told a personal friend that after the close of his engage
meovt in Kansas City next week he would visit his home in San
Francisco and would finish training in California, ‘which would be
very close to the scene of the battle,"

Leslie Pearce and Martin Judge, of Philadelpliis, two
laghtweights, boxed twenty rounds at the Spa Club. about four
miles outside of Washington, D. ©., recently. Judge boxed under
the name of Juth, and was supposed to come from Canada. They
put up & good battle, and although the decision was a draw, many
of the epectators thought that had the contest continued s few
rounds more Pearce would have woa.

John L, Sullivan will join a vaudeville company, with
which be intends to playin this country, England, Ireland and
Scotland. Manager Frank Dunn will furnish | the capital, and the
plans that he and the ‘Big Fellow’ have mapped out ought to
bring them in a good sum. The plan is to get together a strong
company of vaudeville artists, and in addition to their turns Sulll-
van will appear in ove scene taken from “The Man From Boston’
and also do statue posing.

Corbett intends to bring out something new in the line
of pugiliem. It has been said that he cannot hit, but he intends to
show that he can, and while training wili have somebody in front of
him to take the stiffest punches. He is having made in Chicago »
pneamatic sbieid which will protect his opponent from injury, aud
he will employ some strong fellow to wear It. McVey will be too
busy wrestling and sparring with him, and the plan is to engage
someone equally strong to take the punches. There will be guards
for the face and jaw, and for the heart aod wind, and Corbett will
be able to punch as bard as he sees fit.

ONE ROUND ENOUGH FOR HAGAN.

Australian Billy Smith Gave the Coal Miners
a Taste of His Quality,

Australien Billy Bmith and Nut Hagan of Philadelphia, Pa., met
im a wheelwright shop near the centre of the town of Reading, Pa.
the other night, before a house of thirty-six, who paid §1 apiece. it
was for a purse of §100 and a side bet of $150, ten rounds or a
Onish, with four-ounce gloves. A Coney Island man was referce
Zell attended Smith in the ring, and Dickinson of Reading, and
Binckley of Pottsville, attended Hagan.

- Hagan ied with his left, which fell short and Smith couatered on
the jaw. Shortiy after Smith led with his left, caught Hagan im
the stomach and laid him doubied up in bis corner. Hagan got up
and they sparred for an opeving. Smith made a resh apd again
knocked Hagen down. From this point until the close of the round
Smith koocked Hagan down three times more aud completely ‘‘djd’
bim. Hagan was given ten seconds to come to, but be fasiled to re-
spond and was eouvied out ia the first round in two minutes and
thirty seconds. {1 was short. sharp and terrific while it tasted.
Hagao's name bereafier in Reading will be “Dennis.’’

A match between Smith and Jack Bonner, of Philadelphia, is
now being arranged, for $500 a side, to take piace at Pottsville,
with four ounce gloves, in about six wevks.

oe ea ne

CHARLES COUGLE.

as qummened
(Wres Porreatr.)

Chicago as a sporting cenire has b fa hrough being
the residence of some af the most famous and widely known sport
mg men in America. Among these none are better or more favor
ably known than Charies Cougie. He has teen identified with
every kind of «port, is a conspicuous figure on the race track and
a worthy patron of the boxing game. » has found the sinews of
war for mauy of the best fighters in the West, and is always tberat
in baching his fancy tn the ring.

Ow TO MIX DRINKS.
The very latest drinks «. they are made in all Orst-class
New York bars, with colored ti!ustrations.in the new

“Police Gazette Bartenders Guide.” Price 25 cents a
copy, or mailed free to all bartenders and saleonkeepers
sending §1 for 13 weeks’ subscription to Potice Ga
gerrs. RICHARD K. FOX. Vravkile Square, New Yor.
1468 Views wrest, London, E. C,

Wiser

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. —

SS > SS

SLA. VAS
SS S SSS Ss S
: SS SS

SWS SA MS SASSI
CG G..GGGG|_..G|. GGG“

BS S

SSs

reer
SOs

THE COLORED WONDER DEFEATS THE AUSfFRALIAN CHAMPION IN SIX ROUNDS, IN NEW YORK, JAN,

DIXON’S RIGHT..LANDS ON MURPHY’S' BODY.

all

i MAN

AN AVM

Wil

ANN

A MYSTERIOUS

TRIED TO KIDNAP THE BEAUTY.

ATTEMPT TO - ROB

THE

TOWN OF BUCK CREEK, IND., OF I1fS MOST BEAUTIFUL

GIRL.

rey (9 NII <—s Serer: Di nabie aE Pe

TAPS

; Hh ff ey

YORK.
MAKING INTERNATIONAL FISTIC

ACT,

NEw.

IRISH FIGHTERS OF NOTE.

LEO

WV TTT WM)

ENGLISH AND
HISTORY---NOVEL BAG-PUNCHING

Hj , Hf;
! Yi fff Yi) Wifi, 5
TMI I Yj

Wii]

rar y

AMERICAN,
A GROUP OF PUGILISTIC HEROES WHO ARE ENGAGED

yy Yj | Uff f Yff, YY) YY ff
Yf YY YY 7) Wi

POPULAR
TONSORIALISTS.

Davis and Walker, Southside Shavers of
6605 State St., Chicago, Ill.

JULIUS DAVIS.

PRANK WALKER.

The tonsorial firm of Davis & Walker can do some-
thing besides shave and cut hair. They are excellent
singers and are so expert with guitar and banjo that
their services are always in demand. They are stand-
byes of the PoLice GAZETTE.

ONE HONEST MAN.

Dear Editor: Please inform your readers that it
written to confidentially, I will mall, in a sealed letter,
the plan pursued by which I was permanently restored
to health and manly vigor, after years of suffering from
Nervous Weakness, night losses and weak, shrunken
parts.

I bave no scheme to extort money from any one
whomsoever. I was robbed and swindled by the quacks

until I nearly lost faith in mankind, but, thank Heaven,
Iam now well, vigorous and strong, and anxious to

make th means of cure known to all.
tty — dhardane or er o » 5 want no
, Box 80, Delray, Mich.
‘ DERMATOLOGY.

ALL about Changing
the Features, Remov-

eee en’ SOHN I, WOODBURY,
177 W. 12a MN Y. Inventor Facial
Branch

Offices: n, Phila., Chicago, St. Louis,

WATCHES AND JEWELRY.

SPECIAL NOTICES.

PIERS. MEAD NOISES CURED.

asgiasses ayes. NO
Pass Boox to F. Hiscox Ceo., Bway, York. ‘Omee Tete! Free.
Nice Mustache in 4-6 w Guaranteed by
using Rudin's Beard Growing . State 2
For sale only by Radin, 21 West 10ist %., N. ¥.
AH mall orders promptly delivered. Price @1.

A pertect shield for

THE NEW SUCCES Ladies. Light, dur-

able and close fitting, Only 50 cts,3 for $1. Acme
Specialty Co., “Box 2627, Boston, Mass.

ILL’S RHEUMATISM AND GOUT CURE.
Greatest of al! Remedies; one bottle will cure_you.
Hill Medicine Co., 37 E. 19th 8t.,N.¥. Send for circular,

GENUINE PROTECTORS for you to avoid dan-
r. Send 2 stamps tor fancy circular
of books. COTT, 21 Ann 8... NEW YORK.

Rich aud racy. 26 cents. Cir’s 2c. Box 8,Jonestown, Pa

AGENTS WANTED.

ALESMEN xsitsive terttory, on

credit. Liberal arrangements will be made with
good salesmen. Add.: P.O. Box 1354,N.Y. city.

REF SAMPLES. Cashcoms. Live agents easily
earn $20 weekly. Pol. mill, P.O 1371, New York.

You SAN ais Caine Ty

a ty. mommy 8 Girls. "Full set, 10cts. Cir-
Ni cular, two stamps. W. Seott, 21 Ann st... N. ¥

‘in Re eet

PERSONAL.

£5 REWARD!

Wanted, the address of “a nbarg. seh. a

Geomens of Restock,
n 1834 and was ast 4 of in

U.S.A. “His parents and b very ansious to
hear of bim, and will gladly a seared rd of five
sterling for reliable news of Address: F ran
they, P.O. Box 172,Kierk ‘Traysvaal, South Atrica.

act Love ch Cee =

lke. body.
a ag Quick, Lasting

vent You wish to

mie “ Se

for Wow, Prof, Alb,

LOVERS’ PACKAGE, Maire all love you. wheth-
I net “— aint 20 secrets =
Many 5 eee for doc. Add: Capt, Box Shook

end photos FREE, F’. Mason, 11

abet Ab fn fem Cor-
ye wordyon te send y ress
and description to W Ww ‘or, W. Va.

a AKE ge bo and a you, “Loe. ae ng

vas Wish Gratified, 10c. — to H ’
EY lon ational Suet PG. 27, Glienae.
you kee

WON?" ck fey wt Lock Box A. Palatine, Tit

"PLIRTESE2 Se Re

wry ammbows me om

Messenger, Wetewera, TH.

POLICE
GAZETTE
ANNUAL

258 CENTS.

All records for the past year.

PRICE,

Boxing,

Baseball, Bicycling, Bowling, Aquatics,

Horse-Racing, Trotting, etc.

Replete with handsome half-tone por-
traits of Stars of the Footlights, Champions
of the Prize Ring etc.

At all newsdealers or from this office.

RICHARD K. FOX,
Publisher,
PRANELIN SQUARE, NEW YORK.
149 FLEET ST., LONDON, E. C.

SENSATIONAL
STORIES—_

Glimpses of Gotham,

Paris Unveiled,
New York by Day and Night
Mabille Unmasked,
James Brothers, Etc.

25c. EACH BY MAIL.

RIGHARD K. FOX, Publisher,

Franklin Square, - - New York.
149 Pleet St., London, E.C. ~

CHANCE FOR BRIGHT BOYS

J CHANGE FOR BRIG

In Baseball Outfits

FREE.

2-Complete Club Outfits-2
20-Individual Uutfits-20

YOUNG SPORTS) &
BOYS’ BEST PAPER.

Published Every Saturday.

§ CENTS--5 CENTS--5 CENTS.

Subscription $2.00 Per Year.

YOUNG SPORTS PUBLISHING (0.,

OUR.... Their Lives and
= | Famous . Battles Complete

in One Volume

IGHTERS
JOHN MORRISSEY,
JOHN C. HEENAN,

YANKEE SULLIVAN,

TOM HYER.

PRICE, TWENTY-FIVE CENTS.

Fully illustrated with authentic Portraits and
Sketches taken during their careers.
Sent by mail to any address on receipt of price,
25 cents. Address

RICHARD K. Fox,
PUBLISHER,
Franklin Square, NEW YORK.
149 Fieet St., LONDON, E. C.

CORBETT

AND

FITZSIMMONS

This Great International Contest will oc-
cur on St. Patrick’s Day, Wed-
nesday, March 17th.

Immediately after the fight No. 1023
of the PoLIce GAZETTE, giv-
ing full report and illustra-
tions of the fight, will be
published. It will be a great

cannot afford
edition will be
dition to the

“issue, and you
to missit. This
anextra, in ad-

+—4+i4omoDOC

regular weekly issue, and will
contain noth-

listic news. No

ing but pugi-
advertisements
will therefore appear in it
withouta spec- ial order.
Those now run- ning advertise-
POLICE Ga-

notice this and

ments in the
ZETTE should

govern them- selves accord-

ingly. Last day for receiv-
ing copy will be Monday,
March 15th; rates will be

75 cents per line.

HzOzz-ONI-7

Address all orders, etc., to

RICHARD K. FOX,

Editer and Proprietor,
Franklin Square, New York.

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

_PROPRIETARY ARTICLES.

COOK REMEDY CO.'
phils perms.

SYP L Sf snitr jaa Bn Te

= You can be treated at home for the same ric
same guaranty. If you
we will contract to pay

mercury,

Standard
Remedy

for cure of

ALL

CURES QUICKER
Than any other remedy. Tar-
rant’s Extract of Cubebs and Co-
paiba is a safe, certain and quick
mm cure for gonorrhoea and gleetand
m is an old-tried remedy for all dis-
wn eases ofthe urinary organs. Com-
Pa bining in a highly concentrated
me form the medicinal virtues ot
cubebs and copaiba, its portable
mone, freedom from taste and

y action (curing in less time

an any other peeearamake

it the most val

To prevent fraud, see that every

age has a red yey across the

aoe Pitan with thes tureof Tarrant & wp IN. Y.,
$1.00. Sold by all

FOR MEN ONLY!
ictee einer ps

Beet om staan ne

ind pecs
Sateen nem ree co., BUFFALO.N. ¥-

ois? @ is a non-poisonous
for Gonorrhea,
a Spermatorrhea,
peste, unnatural dis-
Guaranteed parees, | or any inflamma-
* mot to strietare. tion. 1 rritation or. ulcera-
contagion. ~ tion mpecns mem-
Non-astringent.

Sold by Drauggists,

EIGHT DAYS’ TRIAL FREE OF COST.

WURRISs ©"

Weak, | Nervous s Men,

oma and lack ‘Viger and se is coat ote HEE posta tie jai
The Harris Remedy Co., 69 Gold New York.

A BS STRIC TURE

ethod, >
Power. 3G of Urine or :
rritation TC
STAT rig: ENLARG EMENT. ©

Kroner Mep. Co., 83 Smith Bullding, Boston, Mass

"teuepeavey, PANSY PILLS.

CELEBRATED
Absolutely safe. IMPORTED. Harmless. wrest
Any stage. Thousunds of Happy Ladies.

mail. Send stamp for rticulars. Sold only by
BOTANICAL SPECIFIC CO., 114 5th Ave.,N.Y.
discharge stop in 48 Hou

“CITROSANDALENE CAPSULES.

Positive cure ee greccatees in 5 days. by mail
THE CIT DALENE CO., 138 William 8t., NY.

DOCUTA OIL OF SANDALWOOD

Ca les arrest at once Discharges from the
Urinary Organs, and Cure in7 Days Sever:

est Cases of Gonorrhea. . All Druggzgists.

ATON'S ®TANSY © PILLS

Lapres. Avoid
tations. Get CaTon’s od ony save

gists crdirect sealed. Caton Spc. Co.,

PILES

Address, J

Instant relief, final cure in afew days
and never returns; no purge; no salve;

4 goppositery. Rennes Ne ayneiiedy ‘a

PUBL ICATIONS.

Theygormen E Elders’ | Book

B. Coch, 20! m2 0 Grand La New York York

PIC Y testimony about the tamous SEELEY DIN-
NER. Send $1. Address: C.M.,25 E 14th.N Y

PHOTOGRAPHS.

6éFOToOSs ” FREE. Rich cabinets.’

list ot rare books. GEE ce..

Inclose 2c. for
Mt. Kisco, N. Y
ARE Photos, Rooks, ete. Genuine “goods, sealed
Samples, 10c. Star Novelty Co.,Southampton, N.Y

ecret Photos! Sensational, Mysterious, Interest
ing; by mail 25c. Parisian Co.. 23 Chambers St.,N-Y

a ty, Naughty Girls. Ful! set,10cts. Cir-
W = two stamps. W. Seott, 21 Ann St., N. ¥.

149 Fleet St., London, E. C.

Photos,8c, 0.K.Studio,161 South Clinton St,, Chicago, Zi.

FEES F3P an

BaeePRE |

Bay F

n, Mass

er fails.

nly by

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

Tne BOWLERS CORNER,
News and Gossip of Interest to
the Pin Knights.

The 200 match game between Schreiber and Coulson, of
Buffalo, N. Y., was won by the former. The scores rolled were 1,684

One of the attractions at the Buffalo carnival during the
vieit of the Eastern Interstate League teams will be the singing of
the Tyrolese singers, who are wel! known iv that city.

The defeat of the Commercial Club of Boston, Mass., last
week, at Lowell, by the Les Miserables, makes the Les Miserables,
Commercial aud Salem teams tied for first place in the’ Massachu-
setts Amateur L: azue tournament.

The two-men tournament being organized by Mr.
Frankie, to fulluw in the footsteps of the Uncle Sam series, at his
Bowery alleys, bids fair to be a bigger success than last year, as at
this early date the entry lint is almost filled.

The Orientals, still holding Chesterfield, are making
journeys through Jersey winving from every club they roll agaiust.
They are probably trying ta get a ling on how they would stand if
they entered some tournament in this Siate.

An effont is being made to organize a league among the
Benevolent Order of Elks in New York city, Brooklyn, Jersey City
and Hoboken. According to the programme submitied each team
will roll three games with every other order.

All arrangements were made last week by the Hamiltan
County League of Cincinnati; O., fur the Brooklyn-Hamiltea
County League series, and at the North Cincinnati Turner Hall
alleys tickets will be distributed to the delegates.

The thirteenth series of games in the Kansas City, Mo
League tourney, between the Kansas City and Bellevue teams, was
won by the former.with a score of 2501 to their opponents’ 2,437.
Watson and Laidlaw did the st woik fur their respective clubs.

In the final games between the Cincinnati and Newport
teams in the Cincinnati, O., League tournament series, the first
named club won both games, the first by a margin of 180 pins and
the secoud by 12. Mayer rolled the highest game of the evening, a
soore of 187.

In Behrmeng’s Wallabout tournament, Brooklyn, the
W No. 1 team isin first. place with nine consecutive victories to
its credit. Keusington No, 1 team is second with a record of eight
to one, while the Agate team holds third place with a record of six
wins aod three defeats.

The Owls now lead, both in percentage of games won and
aggregate scores, in the Kansas City tournament. The Kansas City
team is a close second, and the Acmes have a good hold on third
place. In the race for individual averages there are ten men who
have an average of 500 or better.

Those who believe Charley Engel, of Buffalo, N. Y., is a
“has been,"’ and belongs to the retired list, should have seen him
chop the pins down on Kaapp’s alleys, Buffalo, last week. His
scores in four consecutive games were 244, 234, 256 and 195, making
an average of 232%{. This is phenomenal work.

The tournament rolled in sections, under the auspices of
the United Bowling Clubs, at Thum & Karisdorf's alleys, One Hun-
dred and Twenty-fifth street. now completed, was a great success,
furnishing some exciting, well-played games, and once more proved
the wisdom of the managers in promoting this series.

The Bergen Club, of New Jersey, visited Newark Thurs-
Gay eveving and rotied the annual game with the Independents.
The result was a victory for the latter club. A return game is
promised this season aud the Bergens claim they will have little
difficulty in reversing the order of things on their own alleys.

Dave Shiman, although he lost the 200 match series to
Lebrback on the Haricut alleys, is rolling a stiff game, most of
the games were woo and lost by a very close margin. This is the
frst year this popular rojier bas made these alleys his headquarters
and yet very few of the cracks are anxious to meet him there.

Im the games rolled between the Cosmopolitan and
Edelweiss Clubs on the Biue Island avenue alleys, Chicago, Iil.,
fast week, each team won a game, the first being won by the Cos-
maopditags by thirty-s¢ven ‘pins, the scores being 1,068; 1,016. In
the aecoud game the Sepumes won by sixty-five, tke scores being

Phe Tourists of Peterson, ¥. a. were defeated in their
second gawe of the series with the Union County Roadsters at Pat-
ereson, last week, which reduces their lead. They succeeded in
winning the first easily with's poor core and expected the next was
@ sure thing for them. The. scores were: Tourist, 196, 744; Union

J. McNally, of the Acmes, authorizes me to state he
is ready to make a maich sith Haiuhorst, of the Oerell Club, to roll
his protege, Mr. Schuldt, a series of best six of eleven games on the
One Huudred and Twenty-fifth street alleys for any amount from
$25 to $100, man and money to be found at his alleys, 102 West
Forty-seventh street. ,

The Suburban Club, of Tremont, N. ¥., started a Ave-
men tour t Th day ’ Jan. 21, at their alleys: The following
é@lubs have entered teams: Yankee, Mohegan, Yellow Kids, Cliqué:,
Union, Melrose, Stiffs, Mt. Hope, Grove Hill and Pirates. The offi-
cersare: O. W. Emanuel, chairman; G. W. Martin, treasurer, and
G@. J. Dagner, secretary.

Geo. R. Baker, of the Fellowship Club, rolled the record
score fu the Chicago, lil., League last weet, making 223. This
honor was held up to this time by Miller, of the Textiles, whe rolled
214 last mouth. By losing two games to the Fellowship Club the
Plazas have lost their lead and are now tied with the West Ends for
first place in the series.

The American National tournament furnished surprises
up to the last hour and it proved to be the most important competi-
tien rolled so far in this popular series. There was at least one
record made this year that will stand for along time, and the fact
that the veteran Bomerman rolled the bighest score in the last game
only furnishes ove more proof of the uucertainty which makes this
the king of games.

The greatest event of the season, the United Bowling
Clubs’ open tourvament, will be held the early part of next mouth
on Thum’s Germania alleys. The managers invite entries from any
part of the United States. Thisis the competition that creates the
genuine champions of the year in the following style of ‘games:
Team headpin tenpin, team ninepin headpiu, individual teapin head-
pin and individual niccpin headpin.

A large gathering of military men and bowling enthu-
Giasis were present at the forma! opening of the new alleys belonging
to the Twenty-third Regiment. Brovklyn. The three games sched-
uled for the evening by the Second Brigade League were rolled, ams
breaking even. W.H. Waters, of the Third Battery, rolled the
highest score of the evening—233. In this game against the Twenty-
third Regiment team his club ouly made a team total of 690,

The five individual prize winners in the late Capitol
teurner, Brooklyn, are: De Grosch, Pin Knights, first, 186 5-14;
Daniel Weich, member of the same club, second, 186 5-14; Bobert
Menninger, Bright Star, third, 186 1/6; Henry Spink, I. D. K.,
fourth, 184 4/7, and Fred Weitzel, of the Bright Star, fifth, with
182 9/13 to his credit. The prises were distributed at the alleys

Wednesday the 20th, and arrangements were made for starting a
new series for five-men teams.

AN HONEST DOCTOR.

Dear Editor: My 30 years’ as a specialist in diseases
and weaknesses of the generative system should be suf-
ficient apology for warning your readers against Frauds
who advertise under assumed names to entrap sufferers
from the terrible effects of Self-Avuse or Sexual Ex-
cesses. If any sufferer will write to me, I will
send him sealed particulars of a system of treatment
by which thousands of topeless men, human wrecks
with weak, shrunken organs, have been restored to
glorious ‘manhood and perfect development,
= every barrier to happy marriage forever removed.
t is my faith in this treatment that I give every
= eee arantee that he shall be cured.
” M. DICEL INSON, Dep. 2, Bridgeport, Conn.

DRUNK FOR TWENTY YEARS.

A correspondent writes: “I was drunk on and off for

over 20 years, drunk when I had money. sober when
Ihad none. Many dear friends I lost, and numbers
gave me good advice to no purpose, but thank God, an
angel hand came at last in the form, of my poor wife,
who administered some of your medicine to me with-
out my knowledge or consent. Iam now saved, com-
pletely transformed from a worthless, idle fellow to a
sober and respected citizen,” Full particulars of this
marvelous remedy will be gladly sent free by the
Renova Chemical Co., 66 Broadway, New York City.

FREE CURE FOR MEN.
tated hin ta taeltresr saat
sedis aliarsie fat

you

of naughty, akg ed GEL SET set, 10 cents. The
rubber circle protector for man or woman, 10 cents,
Get the set of six pretty French girls, highly ae pees
and beautiful to beho 10 cents. All above
for 25 cents, Pa circular, two eames

W. SCOTT, 21 Ann Street, New York.

“THE POLICE
GAZETTE he

Used on this paper is manufactured e pone
Faep’x H. Levey & Co., 69 Beekman 8. N York,

ELECTROTYPES

Get them made a t Raisbeck Eleetrotype Co.,
24and 26 Vandewater Street, New York.

MEN ONLY <*0ic: ina cemuine substitute |

for men. he Aivegs ready, warranted 1 year. Dice a.
Sealed. Acms Specialty Oo., Box 2627, Boston, Mass.

SINGLE Mik Our New Medel Duplex

is a periect substitute F OR

MEN. Alwaysready. Warrated to last. Prepaid,

sealed, $1. Select Specialty Co., Box 2728, N. Y. city.

FOR MEN ONLY! Gon nnd bepetea Wassuees,
era und vate Pictures,

J. Paris Co., bers St., New York city,

USE our ga yA PROTECTORS and and avoid dan-

i 2 worry nest qt Prepaid 50c

Specialty Co., G., Tee eu Ave., N. Y.

w 75 om el colors and‘kinds; BEARDS, 40c.;

ORES, 7c.; plays, 16 16c. All'by mail. Tricks,

Novelties, Cat’ig free. Marshall, port, N. ¥.

MEDICAL.

MEDICAL.

AN APPEAL
TO WEAK MEN

WE POSITIVELY cure all forms ot Nervous De-
bility, Varicocele, Nervousness, Forgetfulpess, Confu-
sion of Ideas, Lauguor, Dyspepsia, Lame Back, Rheu-
matism, Kidney and Bladder Complaint, and the many
evils resulting from youthful indiscretions or excesses
iu maturer years. In these troubles

DR. SANDEN’S ELECTRIC url e

is an absolutely positive cure. It has cured thonsands
every year afterall known medicines and other treat-
ments have fhiled. The fact is that MEDICINES
NEVER HAVE NOR NEVER WILL cure these
troubles, as you weil know-if you are a sufferér and
have tried them. ELECTRICITY—which is nerve
force—is the element which was drained from the system
and to cure IT MUST BE REPLACED. I faithiully
promise to give every buyer the crowning triumph in
medico-electrical science, and have placed the price
within the means of every sufferer. SHRUNKEN
PARTS POSITIVELY RESTORED. A pocket edition
of Dr. Sanden’s celebrated American work, ‘Three
Classes of Men," illustrated, is sent free, sealed, by
mail, upon application. Every young, middle-aged or
old man suffering the slightest weakness should read it.
|_ It points outan EASY, RURE AND SPEEDY WAY
TO REGAIN STRENGTH AND HEALTH WHEN
EVERYTHING ELSE HAS FAILED. Call or ad-
dress office nearest you.

Banden Electric Co, 886 Broadway, New York.
Sanden Electric Co., 188 Olark Street, Chicago, Ill.
Sanden Electric Oc., 156 St. James St.. Montreal, Can.

ov= ENLARGER & DEVELOPER
rete erg’ tame! mal ear et

lately |

io cimeramiess Was eaueaey

We. know the above concern to be reli
EpITor. a. :

TRANSPARENT (0rcs'"Sest made. Oia price, |

$5; my price, $1, sealed. E. Nass, Box 3753, New York.
pee ne aro —- Spe 1 Always red

Par ity. Sam)'le,
forgi BTANDARD UBBER CO., Box 88, N.Y. city.

Boo**; Photos, &e. Send stamp for sealed circu-
. CONROY, 122 Park Row, New York.

UBBER GOODS. New invention; particulars,
‘2c. stamp. Empire Nov. Co., 74 Barclay &t., H.¥. City.

FRE SAMPLE of useful Bubber Article.
STAR KUBBERB CO., South Bend, Ind.

RUBBER ois" price 25c. “Box 620, Baltimore, 3a.

RUBBER G00 of every variety, catalogue

DR. LELAND & 00:, South

Rubber Goods:srei ices te Hise.
LOVEE esa SER

MON pron ao Ave., Minneapolis, Saf: |

Curious Books and Photos. Private or descriptive
circular 2c. Holland Agency,370 Dearborn St. ,Chicago,Ii}-

2B SS Sse ica ans cma

SPORTING.

every deseription mesnes
su or to any grr - U.S ao

SLOT MACHINES Snit'Gocur Boe
Poker Cnecks. Steam Riding Galleries, Games, etc.
CLUB BOOM AND FAIRGROUND GOODS.

Address: Ogden & Co.,185 Clark St.,Chieago,Iil.

of all kinds, also mining
he ng Ee Te
W.A. MASON, Box 955, Philade!Iphia, Pa.

NEW SLOT MACHINE, crc’ ssirees ‘to |

TIVOLI MACHINE CO., 179 E. Madison St.,Chicago.

PILES#2 ee

- ane PHOTOS——

ROMINENT
mf UGILISTS,

10 CENTS BACH.
Send 2c. Stamp for List

RICHARD K. FOX,

FRANKLIN SQUARE, NEW YORK
149 Pleet St., London E. C.

ADVERTISERS--
fee—READ THIS!

Hereafter the following rates will be charged
for space in the “Police Gazette”:

One Insertion, 75c per Line.
13 Insertions, 70c per Line.
26 Insertions, 6sc per Line.
52 Insertions, 60c per Line,

Address all communications to

RICHARD K. FOX,
Editor and Proprietor,

Franklin Square, NEW YORK.
149 Fleet St., LONDON, E. C.

Treat Yourself Secretly at Home.
Send for a a Rae ce

siven

ATES, Rox 52, Jersey City. N. 3.

WILL YOU FIGHT

tog meget? ARE YOu
sults of , sexual Bap tb nn pay LA

stamp,
J. wD. ape oo KALAMAZGO, MICH.
Shipper of Kalamasco Famous Celery.

YOU NEED THIS!

Dear Sir;—If written to
the method that

FREE TO MEN

sere. aepeees te 3 Sears, oe
A NM co., a pee a co " Oabebee. Kil,

CBOSSMAN’S

SPECIFIC MIXTURE

Cures Private Diseases, $1.00 a bottle. All

SMALL MEN, S0%0.25:.csiven.ane
box of m eererdies bate: whigh ives ae

James Barns, 350 Co lumbus Ave., N.¥.

Dr. _DEVELPAU's pepe
4 a 8 6 day Beale by” mall 6
ds i a:

The DeVelpau Tabiet Co
flering from the effects of Seif-abuse
TO M ys We will send
eine by Mail Fae, 10s
close 6c. in womee lage and king
Physicians’ | te ta34 Mason

pur ero mete
MANLY VIGOR or'mes or oe ryehonded,-Bampe

Cannes Rone Go. 83 E 18th St,Chicago, Ill.
BED-WETTING Sas! uismsaloe, Wig

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

i T A sit Aah

ml oo

i; nM Wi H

“hi i

cm CTL

a dj i iS S

ay nati IA ] wn
ee AS i iS ae I :

AWit|

—-- SLID DOWN THE PLANK TO SAFETY.

THE NOVEL MANNER IN WHICH WOMEN IN A_ SAN_ FRANCISCO, CAL, BOARDING-HOUSE
asin ESCAPED, AFTER BEING AWAKENED: BY A FIRE IN JHE EARLY MORNING,


=== sim_national-police-gazette_1889-06-29_54_616 ===

righted by RICHARD kK. FOX, Proprietor POLICE GAZETTE PUBLISHING HOUSE, Franklin Square, New York.

meet ig’ & NEWYORK, SATURDAY, JUNE 29, 1889.

RICHARD K. FOX,
Editor and Proprietor.

(eye en {ili} {i
AHN Hi AAT

can

VOLUME LIV._No. 616.

t- . Price Ten,

TAs
WY qouoketaumons
ASA

JUMPED INTO ETERNITY.

DILL OF ALLEGHENY, PENNSYLVANIA, WHILE TEMPORARILY INSANE, COMMITS SUICIDE.

ESTARLISHED f¥46.

RICHARD K..FOX, - -

POLICE GAZETTE PUBLISHING HOUSE,

Franklin Square, N. Y.

“Editor: and ee

? FOR THE WEEK ENDING

SATURDAY, JUNE 29, 1889.
\ A SPECIAL
POLICE GAZETTE TRAIN

Has been arranged for with the

BALTIMORS & OHIO

QUEEN & CRESCENT

Railroads, to leave New York on or
about JULY 4,

FOR NEW ORLEANS.

Parties desiring accommodations on same should

' apply early to this office.

Reduced rates of fare have been arranged for.
The rate from New York, Boston and all points in

tho East will be published in the next issue of this

paper.

EDITORIA L ‘NOTES.

NOTWITHSTANDING the heat and humidity of

: the days that are now with us the nimble base-
* ball biffer makes home runs and leaves the
' bags behind him with a pleasurable earnestness

born.of refrigeratorial frigidity, which superin-
duces the thought that the b b b originated in

' Greenland’s icy mountains.

THE CRONIN TRAGEDY in Chicago is gradually
being transformed into a farce-comedy. Mr.

- Woodruff shows up as the low comedy man and

he is earnestly fitting himself for the posi-
tion of snake editor on some ono of our great

dailies. It will be so cold that it will snowin
‘bed on any day when Mr. Woodruff’s fecund

brain does not originate a new Munchausenism,
aliasa “confession.” As a champion dodger
of the truth Mr. Woodruff can have our piece
of cake and the ‘‘Poiice Gazette” belt.

JAKE KILRAIN, the “Police Gazette” cham-
pion, showed his kindnéss of heart by appear-
ing at the Madison Square Garden last week
and sparring for the benefit of the. Johnstown
sufferers. Charley Mitchell also came on from
Baltimore and appeared as: Jake’s opponent

protempore. From the manner in which Kil-
rain: was received there was no mistaking the
feeling of the multitude of sporting men

present. eee Se

Txat fateful Black Friday on the Conemaugh
will never be forgotten by the residents of the
once peaceful valley. Sunday witnessed dis-
heartening scenes there, and our correspond-
onts and artists have pictured them true to the
life. .The werk of reelaiming the bodies still
goes bravely on, and the section is now under
military espionage, and will remain in that
state until all danger of dissatisfaction on the
part of the laborers is over. There is no
way of telling exactly how many lost their lives
in the horror, and the roster will not be made
until the Judgment Day rolls around. Let us
hope that it has been overestimated, and let us
pray that the world will never again witness
such a calamity.

‘THE summer season has opened at Coney
Island, Rockaway Beach, Gien Island, Long
Branch, Fire- Island. Newport, Saratoga, and,
in fact, all over.. Soon myriads of citizens, male
and female, will be disporting themselves in
the surf or seeking secluded nooks in moun-
tain morasses, forests and fens, where they
may give dull care the go-by and whoop up en-
joyment to its altitudinum. May they all en-
joy themselves! This cannot be done, how-
ever, unless they subseribe for the PoLicE Ga-
ZETTE.ere they start. Good luck to everybody,
except the man who puts a high shirt collar on
the top of his beer glass. and the cheeky ram-
rod who charges 25.cents for a milk punch
made of alleged milk and perhaps Santa Cruz!

Watcu out for the future issues of the PoLIcE
GazETTE from now until the fistic dispute be-
tween Jake Kilrain and John L. Sullivan is get-
tled. The fight will take place on July &, with-
in'two hundred miles of New Orleans, and the
Pouce GazETTE will watch and: record every

‘movement of the big ’uns. Even the minutest

detail: will be reported by us, and our special
correspondents. and- artists will be on the
ground on the-day of the encounter, and will
flash the very.latest news to this office. We will

ue an extra immediately after the fight. and
onthe: following week, July 15,~ve will “present.
our. “renders with a supplement-dejineating the
gladiators as they.apneared in‘the ring and de-

picting all the scenes-and incidents efthe-big--|—

gest fight on record. Look out for both issues.

_ THE NATIONAL POLicr

GAZETTE:

NEW

YORK.

MASKS a ACES

"| Gay Casino Girls---Solomon’s
Silly Sallies---Jansen
and Dolaro.

GOWERS IN THE CONSOMME.

Langtry in | Chicago---Tommy
Russell in Harlem,

PAUL POTTER’S PARAGRAPH.

I sit and wait the curtain’s rise, and watch the sea of faces
That sparkles into laughing waves beneath the gasalier,
I sce the variegated craft towed safely to their places,
By busy little ushers, gliding swiftly far and near,

I hear the buzz of voices, and of the boy who nefits us
* Librettos of the opera!’ —the swishing of the fans—

The rustle of the programmes, and the manager who tells us
With depreciating bow, the dismal failure of his pians.

The orchestra begins to wheeze an antiquated mediey—

The curtain rises with a hiteh—the hero rolls his eyes—
The chorus gambols through its part—the faring gas burns
redly,

As in a blaze of colored light tho villain falls and dies.

I gaze upon the funny man—but dreamily and sadly—
My laugh is forced and hollow—

Yes, my laugh. if there is a laugh at all, is forced
and hollow when Mr. Fred Solomon, who is now the

crack comedian of the Casino, tries to get off a —
a vayilet or asonglet.

He is so labored, the good man, and his accent
smacketh so decidedly of Petticoat Lane, and his hu-
mor is so plainly much manufactured.

Edwin Stevens, whom I praised when in “Said
Pasha,” disappointed me as the chief of “The
Brigands” at the Casino the other night.

There is something lacking in his performance, a
dash, a brio, an entrain, an I don’t know what you'd
call it.

We are used to seeing Urquhart stick-like and Rice
monotonons, but Stevens, whom some compare with
Hopper, truly here was a disappointment. -

But, as Shakespeare, alias Bacon, remarks:

“Expectation fails,
And most oft there where most it promises.”’

Lillian Russell almost makes up for all the short-
comings of all the rest.

The stage presence of Russell is so fine, her voice is
of such magnificent vol-
ume and quality, her
acting even, strange as
this may appear, is r0
free and debonair in
this operette that the
silly sallies of Solomon,
the foghorn toot of
Urquhart,the cavernous
snile of Rice are alinost
forgotten in the shower
of melody and glow of
radiance that emanate
from her.

There are a number of
pretty girls up at the
Casino just now.

They look pretty from
front, atany rate, how-
ever seedy they may
look with their make-up
off and their everyday smile on.

Sylvia Gerrish has a good pair of legs.

Anna O'Keefe is a better singer than a looker.

Georgie Dennin is getting too tat.

Laura Russell looks like a good one.

Delia Stacey makes a fair show.

Emma Lawrence, Edith Edward and Gertie Silver-
thorn have admirers.

I regret to record another fizzle at Niblo’s Garden.

A few weeks ago Mr. Ed Buckley fell into the con-
somme there.

**A Noble Son” did it.

Now Mrs. D. P. Bowers, in spite of fine elocution and
ripe stage experience,
has tumbled into the
bouillon there.

She made the fatal
plunge last week as the
heroine of ‘‘Jeanne For-
tier,” an old-fashioned .
five-act melo-drama of
windy proportions and
atale incidenta.

The play is all abonta
murder committed by a
bad man and expiated
by an innocent woman.

Mra. Bowers had a brilliant.company to: accompany
her in thia plunge into:the bouillon.

Frank Bangs, theivillain, .wept:in the soup.
-#miis-Soidenesang and danced-in the soup.
Victory Bateman. the emotional young: lady, de-

liberately. took out,her hair pins prior to her death in
the soup.

And Percy Aunting, John Burke, R. A. Koberts, Fred
Corbett all floundered in the disastrots potage.

I can’t see why Koberts, supposed to speak French
like all the rest of the characters in the play, assumes
a dialect.

I can’t understand why all the members of the cast
didn’t take the trouble to get,the pronunciation of
that simple word ‘‘monsieur” straight and clear.

It was ‘‘monsoor,” and ‘‘munsoor,” and ‘“minsir,”’
and ‘‘munsir,” and everything but what was correct.

On racing days Broadway is deserted. Actors are
fond of the races, and
if they have the dust
readily. desert. their
favorite thoroughfare
for Guttenberg and
Sheepshead. ;

Some of these Thes-
pians drop a good deal
of their hard-earned
cash on.the uncertain
quadruped.

‘And the girls are al-’
most as bad.

,Sveaking of horses re-
minds me of the fact
that the property ‘horse’
which Hubert Wilke, as
the Prince. in ‘Tho
Oolah,” rides at tho
Broadway Theatre every
night, is an old acquaint-
ance.

He has played in melodrama, opera and farce.

The blare of Neyer’s band doesn’t frighten him a bit.

The false notes of the chorus girls don’t put him
out, or make him wag his tail, or prick up his ears.

He is a calm, staid, reliable horse. ;

And eveu when Wilke shows his teeth, as he loves
to do, this faithful property horse doesn’t. show
alarm.

He knows, the wise beast, that Wilke only shows his
beautiful teeth to make a mash or 80 more among the
silly women in the orchestra.

I heard a funny report the other day.

Elma Dolaro, who has been replaced by Lena Mer-
ville in ‘‘The Oolah,” says Marie Jauscn is jealous of
her. -

Pardon my smile.

That’s the funniest line Dolaro has got off in her en-
tire stage career.

gansen jealous of Dolaro !

Excuse another smile.

Urquhart may be jealous of Hall; Isabelle Coe may
not like Maude Adams; Marie Burroughs may not be
overfond of Annie Russell; Lillie Grubb may not be
wild over Loie Fuller; Grace Hendérson may not rave
in private over Georgia : ™
Cayvan; Langtry may
not fondle Nadage Do-
ree; Selena Fetter may
not like Blanche Weav-
er; Effie Shannon may
not dote on Ada Rehan;
Marion Manola may not
go into rhapsodies over
Annie Meyers; but I'll
bet anybody my week’s
salary that Marie Jansen has never at any time had the
tiniest twinge of jealousy apropos of Elma Dolaro.

Excuse my laughing again.

It’s almost as funny as the news I hear that Patrice is
going to star next year.

Apropos of the success Paul Potter has had with
“The Directory,” in which Donnelly and Girard ap-
peared, I am reminded of oneof the brilliant news-
paper exploits of that very clever writer. It illustrates
the value of a pertinent paragraph to an actress.
**There is nothing like a short paragraph,” said Mr.

Potter to me some time ago. ‘I remember when I haa |.

charge of the foreign news of the Herald, Mary Ander-
son made her debut in London. I received a long dis-
patch from London telling me of the actress’ triumph.
The dispatch was not signed, and I thought. it was a
bogus puff, so I killed most of it. A few weeks later I
sailed for London to take charge of the Herald office
there. ‘Say, Potter,’ said Mr. Bennett to me one day,
shortly after my arrival, ‘what made you kill that
Anderson dispatch? I had that dispatch cabled ex-
préssly. I wanted it to go.’ ‘Well,’ said I, ‘Mr, Ben-
nett, the dispatch was not signed. I was suspicious as
to its authenticity. But if you really want to boom Miss
Anderson, if you'll give me carte blanche, I’11 manufac-
ture and cable an item to New York that will go the
rounds of the press of the United States, and it won’t
cost you much either.’ Bennett told me to go ahead
and doit. A few weeks later 1 sent on the following

laconic paragraph:

Sa ‘Mary Anderson, who
Sage was seen in the Duke
of Portland’s box at the
_- Opera last night, ie now

creditably reported en-

gaged to that wealthy

nobleman.” You remem-

ber how that item went

the rounds. That’s how
itonginated. I promised Bennett to advertise Ander-
son and I did,”

Tommy Rassell, who played Little Lord Fauntleroy
80 well at the Broadway Theatre this winter, laid the
corner stone of the Weat End Theatre, which Mr. A.
H. Wood is now building up in Harlem.

Tommy Russell got on the platform quite boldly,
seemed cool in spite of the broiling sun, and said :

“(LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: I propose to lay the cor-
ner stone of the West End Theatre. [Applause.] This
is a very hot day, but I can say I am glad to be here.
(Renewed applanse.] In laying the corner stone of
this theatre I hope it will meet with every success,
and I hope Harlem will be some time the centre of
New York.

This haa been a great week. for benefits for the suf-
ferers at Johnstown.

The profession reeporded nobly.

The profession is always more charitable to others
than to its own members.

They like to publicly build up hospitals, schools and
funds, and they delight privately in picking to pieces
characters, talents and ‘noble achievements.

The athletic tournament at the Madison Square Gar-
den was under the immediate snpervision of Mr. T.
Charles Davis, who. as you.may have heard, has sev-
ered his business connection with. Mr. Harry Miner
and next year starts out upon ventures of his own.

I hear that. Jeffreys -_Lewis is getting a divorce
from the last edition of her hysbands, Harry Main-
hall.

Fay Templeton, the cabie tells ts, was locked up mn
Paris for gettiffe drunk on the publi¢ ‘thoraishfares
and behaving in a loud and unseemly manner,

' Mollie Fuller left for ee last week, ani
Fred Hallen, still in the funereal trappings of an incon.
solabie widower, sailed on the same vessel.

". Adeline Stanhope, who was fair in “Fascination.” hax

withdrawn ‘from the company because they reduced
hefbalary and because they wanted her to make Up as
a spinster with corkscrew curls.

Jimi Wilson has been sued for divorce by his wife,
Mrs. Kate Wilson, on the usual grounds.

Langtry, in her new play, seems to have caught on
in Chicago,

The play, “Esther Sandraz,” isa dracentiention by
Grundy of a novel by Adolphe Belot.

Esther, the heroine, is a Portuguese beauty, an,orphan,
who has established herself in Paris, and by her
charms and talents readily makes her way into the
most exclusive circles.

“Henri Vandelle, the hero, is a young man of affairs,
who loves her devotedly. Their courtship is a dream
of heaven. Henri becomes financially involved, and,
in his extremity, turns to Henrietta Dounay, whom he
courts,while Esther, unconscious of treachery, lavishes
her caresses upon him: Henrietta is immensely rich
and‘encourages his advances, and finally weds him,

the affair being hastened by the bridegroom, who dex.

teronsly assigns false reasons. Esther first learns of
her desertion the evening of the marriage, and direct-
w following the revelation comes an infuriated quar-
el between Vandelte and a former rival for Henrietta’s

i hand. .In the melee Esther Sandraz is shot by Vandelle,

the pistol having been aimed in self-defence at his
‘vanquished rival. In the denouement the grieffemitten
‘Vandelle caresses the lips of the only woman he has
loyed, revealing in the passion that rends him all the
plot by which hesacrificed his bonor and the woman
of his choice. Henrietta, with others, is a witness of the
scene, and prompted by Esther, who gasps her pardon
with her last breath, forgives her faithless huaband,
relinquishes the half of
her fortune to him, and
dismisses him forever.

Tableaux and tears.

The tittle tattle of the
clubs is getting very
dull these hot summer
days.

Like that clubman
Gilderoy Van Sweiler,
whom Pruett Share so
cleverly sketched for
Alfred Trumble, of To-
Day, some years ago,
pretty much all we can
doin these piping times
of peace is to sit ‘back,
our hands in our pock-
eta, and look at the bulldog by our side or the sea in
the distance.

Theatricals will be denced dull 1n a week or so.

Managers are busy arranging dates and looking
after anew stock of Little Lord Fauntleroys for next
season.

Most of the crop of child actresses of next season
are now being weaned, and I hear they’re doing well.

Speaking of child actresses, Lydia Thompson and
Emily Soldene will not star next year.

There is always something to be grateful for te this
workday world, even if diamonds instead: of brains do
keep on the stage some women who ought to be—you
know. ROSEN.

HANDSOME BILLY BURNETT.

(WirH PortralrT.]}

In this issue we publish a portrait of Billy Burnett,
the leading sporting man of Washington, D. C.
Burnett hails from Rochester, N. Y., and his name is
a by-word with sporting men in all partsof the conn- ©
try. Heisa backer of billiard players, oarsmen/and

‘ puxilists, and is very popular with all classes. Burnett
is the boniface of the well-known wine parlor at 415
Thirteenth street, Washington, which is one of the
famous saloons where the leading politicians in Wash-
ington meet after Congress adjourns to discuss sport-
ing and political topics. Mr. Burnett is a stanch-ad-
mirer of Kilrain, and with a party of Washington
sporting men he 1s going to see the great fistic battle
on July 8. Burnett is also Billy McMillan’s (the welter-
weight champion) backer. and he is eager to match the
latter against Paddy Duffy, of Boston,or any 145-ponnd
man in America for $1,000 or $2,500 a side: ut if

> i it

GAGGED BY A BURGLAR. i i
[SuBsEcT oF ILLUSTRATION.|

Another daring daylivht robbery was committed in
Brooklyn, N. Y., on Saturday night. June 8 at No. 229
Devoe street.. Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Winkler. withstheir
children, occupy the first floor. On Saturday:¢yening

rs. Winkler was alone with her nine-months-old
baby, when suddenly the mother was startled by feel-
ing a hand placed upon her shoulder and hearing a
voice say: *‘We are all alone now, and I want the money
you have hid away.” ‘I have no money,” replied Mrs,
Winkler. The man then went into the kitchen and
took from the table a red handkerchief, which he
bound tightly over Mrs. Winkler’s face, after which he
tied her feet and arms. He then searched the house
and found $8, which he put in his pocket and: de-
camped.

nani

A CHAMPION ON THE RUNNERS.

!WrrH PortTRAIT.]

We herewith present a portrait of Louis H. George,
the six-day champion roller skater of the ‘world.
Young George resides in Niagara Falls, and has medals
enough to filfa large sized cabinet. When he glides
over the floor on his roilers he resembles a streak of
greased lightning on duty.

KITTENISH KATE FOLEY.

{Wirs Portralrrt.|

Kate Foley’s jolly face illumines our theatrical
picture gallery this week: Miss Foley has long becn
associated with the ‘‘rough soubrette” line of dramatic
work, and her many friends will be glad to have: a re-
production of her physiognomy for future reference.

JENNIE: BARTINE.

{Wrra Porrrarr.!

‘A pretty girl is Jennie Bartine, whose physiognomy
smiles elsewhere in there colnmns. Miss Bartine,
who is well known in comie opera circles, is the Pile
of Mr. Frank David.

S RWLRanes Cotors—The new “Colors” of Jake Kittatre are
now read Sporting men, saloonkeepers and others can obtain

“them by forwarding $3.30 to this office, RICHARD K. FOx, Frank-

lin Square, New York,

THE _ NATIONAL POLICE

GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

KILRAIN TRAINING.

The Champion Reducing
His Weight Near
Baltimore.

JAKE'S DAILY ROUTINE

Getting Himself in Con-
dition for the Biggest
Fight on Record.

inca isags

WHAT JOHN L. IS DOING.

Working Off Superfluous Flesh
up in Belfast, New York
State.

BENEFIT AT MADISON SQUARE GARDEN

Kilrain’s Happy Greeting When He
Appeared in Behalf of the
Johnstown Sufferers.

HIS ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION.

nina eas

Jake Kilrain, under the mentorship of Charley Mitch-
ell. is in training near Baltimore. and he is working
hard to reduce his weight so that he will be in first-class
condition when the all-eventful day arrives. Kilrain’s
modus operandi of training is as follows: Long walk and
the regular daily breather of ten or twenty miles, after
which he is thoroughly rubbed down. He then takes a
shower-bath and is again thoroughly rubbed with
coarse towels until his skin resembles a rosy peach.
He dons clean sweaters and then takes his morning re-
past with arelish. Kilrain’s breakfast consists of dry
toast, a pint of tea (which is drunk from a bottle), mut-
ton chops and boiled fresh eggs. :

After breakfast he reads the PoLiIcE Gazerre and the
daily papers and then goes to his improvised. gymna-
sium, swings clubs and lifts dumb-bells, and then goes
on a long tramp cross-country at a quick pace. He is
again rubbed down, puts on clean flannels and sits

REPORTERS VISIT THE CHAMPION.

down to his dinner, which consists ot porterhouse
steak, spinnach, toast, rice pudding aud a bottle of
Bass’ ale. *4
After the noon-day meal he rests for an hour, and
then wrestles with Mitchell, boxes, and spends the
interim in fighting the bag or the foot-ball until supper
time arrives. His supper consists of mutton chops,
tea in a bottle and toast. After the evening meal he
takes a stroll or plays billiards, and at 9 P. M. he goes
to bed and does not arike’ until 5 A. M. Kilrain isa
first-class man to attend to his training. and there is
not the least doubt but that he will be in tiptop condi-
tion when the time arrives for the fight.
John L. Sullivan is being trained by Jack Barnett and
Mike Cleary. On June 13 he weighed 220 pounds, and
looks to be a perfect mass of muscle. Sullivan says he
will step into theringin the finest condition he was
ever in, and would make the fight of his life.
Sullivan gets up at 6, and he takes light exercise and

a short walk, and has breakfasted at 8 o'clock, At 10
his trainers put on him three heavy sweat shirts, a
heavy double-breasted coat and vest and heavy shoes,
and he starts on his daily walk. He carries while walk-
ing a club weighing six pounds. His walks consist of
twelve miles over the hills, through the woods, getting
back abont 1. ri
After dinner and after resting a while he exercises at

putting the shot, using iron balls weighing 18 pounds

and 12 pounds. At4he strips and punishes the. ball.
I saw him pound a ball for nine minutes without a
stop, and he appeared fresh when he stopped. This is
the longest I ever saw a man punch a ball, and he Lit
it with terrific force. He is put to bed promptly at 10.
He will enter the ring weighing about 2065 pounds.

Jake Kilrain came to town to attend the boxing tour-

the Johnstown snfferers, on June 13, and it was a finan-
cial success. Nearly three thousand persons attended
the affair, and many expected to see John L. Sullivan,
who been advertised to appear, and who had con-
sented td lend himeeif as an attraction to bring dollars
into the charity fund so needful to assist the unfortu-
nate sufferers of the great calamity. Jake Kilrain, the
champion of America, and Charley Mitchell, the box-
ing champion, had also volunteered, and Kilrain had
agreed to pay his own expenses from Baltimore and
leave his training quarters in order to assist in bring:

TRYING HIS WEIGHT.

ing crowdg to the show. Kilrain did not consider the
loss of a day’s training or the expenses of the trip, but
did come on from Baltimore with Mitchell. Sullivan.
however, did not appear, but sent a letter of regrets.
Nearly every boxer who volunteered appeared. Pat
Sheedy, the handsome, witty sporting man, was the
master of ceremonies.

The boxers who appeared were: Joe Fowler and
Charley Judge, Professor Austin and pupil (“‘Young”’
Donnelly), Professor McClellan and Mike Donovan,
Kelly and. Murphy, E. Hornbacher and pupil, Joe
Jehnson and Joe Hennessy, in wrestling; Pat Cahill
and Ed Hostelman., of the S. A. A. C.: Billy Dacey and
Jack Delancy, Joe Brown and John Clark, Billy Mad-
den and Jack McAuliffe, Lol White and W. Clarkson,
Tom Holder and Jim Connors, Professor Mike Dono-
vay and Joe Glassy, Jake Kilrain and Charley Mitchell.

TAKING A BREATHER.

One of the most exciting set-tos was that between
Jimmy Kelly and Jerry Murphy, while Johnny Reagan
‘and Professor Mike Donovan also displayed great
science. The event of the show was the first appear-
ance of Jake Kilrain, the champion of the world and
holder of the ‘Police Gazette” champion belt, and
,Charley Mitchell, England's boxing champion.
Upon their reaching the platform every eye was
strained to catch a glimpse of Kilrain, the hero of the
great international battle with Jem Smith and who is
to meet John L. Sullivan on July 8.
Pat Sheedy, after the tremendous applause which
Kilrain and Mitchell received had subsided,introduced
Jake Kilraim ag‘‘the champion of the world.” Loud
and prolonged cheerinyz followed, and a few hissed.
Mitchell’s name also elicited applause. The “snakes”
appeared to displease Pat Sheedy, and, advancing to
the edve of the ring, Sheedy suid: “Mr. Kilrain and
Mr. Mitchell have come all the way from Baltimore to
box at the benefit, and paid their own expenses. They
should therefore be treated like gentlemen.”

Tremendous cheering and no hisses followed this
statement, and Pat Sheedy felt elated to think that his
well-intended speech had had the desired effect.

-Kilrain’s fine physique attracted considerable atten-
tion. The champion had not appeared in New York in
two years, and few had any idea that he possessed
such splendid physical development. Kilrain looked
very big, but had no surplus flesh over his stomach.
In fact, he looked to be trained more than report has

KILRAIN AND MITCHELL WRESTLING.

given him credit for. Mitchell was fleshy, his chest
very deep and his skin pink and healthy-lqoking.
Their passage at arms was good enough to draw out
plenty of applause, Both men hit hard and freely, let-
ting out with right and left in a lively manner. Kilrain
scored the most points, using the left almost entirely,

KILRAIN’S COLORS.—The new “Colors” of Jake Kilrain are
now read Sporting men, saioonkeepers and others can obtain
them by forwarding $8.50 to this office. Ricuarp K. Fox, Frank-

but putting in the right to good advantage. He was
lively Qn his feet and much quicker with his hands
than when last seen here.

somewhat severe, and the opinion was general that

: Fs eoel

‘a Ie A

A NOONDAY SIESTA,

Kilrain had more in reserve than his opponent. No
damage was done, but the display Was scientific, and
they hit hard enough to maké it interesting, At the
close of the third round they were heartily applauded,
a demonstration that appeared to please both men
greatly.

After the set-to the general opinion of many of the |:

Ler
RUBBING . DOWN.

indges of pugilism was that Kilrain is the moetele.
gant and scientific pugiliat in the whole race of Amer-
ican pugilists. His theoretic acquirements are great
and wonderful, and he is at present a phenomenon in
the pugilistic hemisphere, a star of the first brilliancy.
When science and strength were opposed to his
dexterous efforts, he availed himself of his genius and
bottom and was not wanting in intrepidity, and never
lost time in combating the mighty prowess of his ad-
versary. Ithas been contended there was more ele-
gance about his position than an indication of strength
and more than ability. No puzilist ever stopped with

* PUNCHING THE BAG.
greater neatness, hit oftener, or put his blows quicker
thd with better judgment than Kilrain, and it must be
‘Mlowedi that there is no better pugilist ora more
P Anished and scientific one than Mitchell.

Kilrain stripped was a study for a sculptor. The first
thing that strikes one who has seen both Sullivan‘ and
Kilrain stripped is the greater symmetry of ontline in
the figure of Kilrain over that of Sullivan. Leaving all
other const@erations out of the question, and looking
only fogbeauty of form, it did:not take a moment's
consideration to decide that Kilrain was far the supe-
rior of the two. There were no incongrnities any where.
Kilrain’s legs appeared as if made to fit Kilrain’s body
and the arms made to fit his body and legs. He ap-
peared tobe as nearly as possiblea perfect specimen of
man. £ach muscle of the body was in perfect unison
and order/ No unsightly lumps appeared anywhere.
Kilrain’s figure is round and beantifully symmetrical.

Going into details and starting at the lowest extremi-
ties, Kilrain’s legs would seem to show strength, agil-
ity and endurance, all combined to the highest perfec-
tion.

His hips are absolutely splendid, well developed and
muscular, showing every indication of a strong
foundation for the body. Kilrain’s chest (broad and
expansive, showing plenty of Jung power) was notice-
able, too, and was entirely free of flesh. Every rib
could be distinctly seen and might be counted. The
most prominent muscle in Sullivan's arm ie that which
is most used in hitting. With Kilrain, on the contrary,
the hitting muscles made the best appearance. The
hitting muscles behind the shoulder to the right
looked like a bone, and the muscles of the forearm felt

law, and live neat Chat

Kilrain and Mitchell, amid the cheers of the multi-

tude, left the Garden immediately after the show and
hurried to catch the train for Baltimore to resumo
He had aclever opponent, whose blows looked to be training, _ It was the general opinion that Kilrain had
{Madea moet favorable impression, and had added a
jf ise as ‘legion of friends to his standard by his unselfish ac-

aE HAS SHOT HI HIS LAST SHOT.

|Sonecr OF F It{ysTRaTion. |
Early one.torning about ten days ago Hon. A. T.

Rodgefs, of Rodgers & Stranahan, merchant tailors of
‘Topeka, Kan., was fatally shot by « burziar, and Mrs.
Rodgers: was shot so that her recovery is very doubtful.

The bitrglar escaped, badly wounded, but later in the
day he was captared, Whel\ it became kndwn he was
din custody t

against avy attempt to remove him elsewhere. During
the evening the crowd increased, and at 7 o’clock tho
jail was stormed.
siatance. and it
wretoh was dragged out-and hanged to the nearest tele-

é@ people surrounded theo jail to guard

officers madé a desperate re-
Mu ci) *clotk when the untortupate

‘JUMPED. INTO, ETERNITY.

~ (SUBJECT OF ELLUSTRATTON.]

Whilé tempotarily insane recently, Mrs. Lena Dull,
the,young wife of Mr. Henry Dill, jumped out ot her
bedroom window to the gfuund, a distance of 2% fect,
at Allegheny,: Pa. Mr. Dill, who had just left the
room with their four-moftiths-old baby, heard the win-
dow open and then a scream. Rushing into the room
he fk 8ut of the window in time to see his wife
strike tie ground. The almost crazed husband gave
the alarm and ran down stairs, picked up his wife and
carried her into the house, where she died a few min-
utes later. - 3 ,

TERRIBLE DUEL WITH KNIVES.

\SuBIECT OF ILLUSTRATION.] |
* Enoch Pettyjohn.gnd.Rufe Massey are brothers-in-

tanooga, Tenn. They are en-
gaged in the tan- ‘bark Dusiness, and recently they had
a dispute over some business traneaction, which ended
in both men agreeing to fight it out with kmives. They
drew their blades, and were soon carving away at each
other at a lively rate. After the men had fought for a
while, some bystanders pulled them apart, but not un-
til they had badly hurt each other. Pettyjohn, it is
thought, will die, but Massey’s wounds are slight.

A BRAVE YOUNGSTER’S DEED.

[SUBJECT oF oF ILLUSTRATION.|

While Katie Malden, aged 11 years, and Frank Leo-
pold, aged 12, were returning from Robbins’ circus to
their home near Centrupolis, Kan., a man named Siec-
dona jumped from the bushes and attempted to assault
the little girl. Her companion drew a pocket-knifo
and attacked Sieddons, slashing him across the face in
a& fearfal manner, cutting off part of, his nose and near-
ly ou ‘out an eye. Sieddons then fied. but was —
tared 4

«HE KILLED HIS CHILD.: ad
“[Sunsxcr OF ILLUSTRATION. ]

Mion a laborer, who. lives in Cincinnati,
|. got drank a %e@ days ago along with his wife, and be-

canse she refused to give him a dime to buy beer with
he threw a heavy tea cup at her head, which missed
her but, hig their 13-months’-old baby, which Mrs.
Cronin was holding in herarms. The blow caused the
baby’s death later in the day, and Cronin was arrested
and charged With murder.

THE MORMONS HAD TO DUST. .,

{SuBsEcT OF ILLUSTRATION.]

The people of Hindsboro, Ind., gathered, together
one night recently and determined that all the Mor-
mons in town must go. They then drove the Peute-
“cost Band. which has been holding meetings there,
outof town, and demolished their large canvas taber-
-nacie. “The band- had been. making: converts to Mor-
‘moniem, and. the people were determined to rid them-
selves of the travelling proselytes.

DROWNED IN A BARREL.

|SuBJEcT OF ILLUSTRATION. |]
The twelve-year-old son of John Clevenger, living
near New Castle, Ind., met with a novel accident the
other day. He fell into a barrel of water and was
drowned. It is thought that he was trying to drink out -
of the barre), and, the water being considerably below
the top, he fell in head first and was unable to extri-
cate himeéclf.

A RISING YOUNG ACTOR.

(Wrrn Porrtral!tT.]

T. W. Babcock, the leading juvenile of Gus Williams,
company, 1s making name and fame for himself on the
mimic stage because of his evidently earnest’and stub
died desire to please the public. Llalented, good-look-
ing, and, withal, modest, Mr. Babcock has a bright fur
ture. His portrait appearsinthe PoLice GacETTE eal
lery this week.

A CASE OF JERSEY LIGHTNING.

{SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.]

Considerable damage was done in Newark, N. J., by
the storm on Tuesday, June ll. Herman Mattis.
German, aged 4 years, was struck by a bolt of light-
ning while driving a wagon on Avenue C and instantly
killed. The horses were not injured, but stood fdr a
few moments as if paralyzed. Mattia leaves a wife and
four children.

GENIAL GEORGE RICHARDS.

(Wire Portralr.| ;

George Richards is one of the best known of t
minor comedians of America. His singing and danc
ing have made him deservedly popular. . He is no
and has for some time been the Stranger. in. Hoyt’s
“Hole in the Ground” See: and his demure com:
icality is much admired. “4

A ROUGH-AND- -TUMBLE. i COURT.:

[Sussect or F ILDDeTRATION. 1
During the trial of Walt Bradney, on charges pre-
ferred against him by a Miss Smith at Pittsfield, I1l.,
recently the father of the defendant created a row,
and instantly a general fight tock place, in which
several persons were hurt.

KILRatn’s Cotors.—The new “Colors” of Jake Eilrain are
now ready. Sporting man, satoonkeepers and others can obtain
them by forwarding §3.60-t0 this office. Ricuagp K. Fox, Frank-

nament at Madison Square Garden for the benefit of

lin Square, New York.

to the toucB like iron.

lin Square, New York,

4 THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. TONE 29, 10,

GENIAL GEORGE RICHARDS, KITTENISH KATE FOLEY.

A CLEVER UHARACTER COMEDIAN WHO HAS MANY FRIENDS HERE AND ABROAD. a “ROUGH SOUBRETTE” WHO 1143 MANY ADMIRERS ALL OVER THE COUNTRY.

ss, we

ae ore teae <SSF SSS

“DEAREST” ISABELLA EVASSON, A RISING YOUNG ACTOR. BUXOM JENNIE BARTINE,

A CHARMING, BEAUTIFUL AND TALENTED ACTRESS, SISTER T. W. BABCOCK, THE LEADING JUVENILE OF GUS WILLIAMS’ A MERRY BURLESQUER, WHOSE FAT, JOLLY FACE WINS HER
OF ESTELLE CLAYTON. : COMMENDABLE COMPANY. LOTS OF FRIENDS.

iy ail ee
Wit, 7

any

Ny oe

sherry

ALEyies*

ASS SS
LAsivee

A BRAVE YOUNGSTER'S DEED. é THE MORMONS HAD TO DUST. -
4 RASCAL NAMED SIEDDONS ATTEMPTS TO ASSAULT LITTLE KATIE MALDEN, BUT THE PEOPLE OF AN INDIANA TOWN GET TIRED OF THE PENTECOST BAND AND

I8 TERRIBLY OUT BY A TWELVE-YEAR-OLD BOY. S000T THEM OUT OF TOWN.

THE NATIONAL POLICE

wit

iti al

vee

DROWNED IN A%BARREL | SHOT THE BURGLAR.
A TWELVE-YEAR-OLD NEWCASTLE, INDIANA, BOY MEETS WITH A NOVEL DEATH

EDWARD KIMBALL OF SACCARAPPA, WE., IS AWAKENED BY A BURGLAR IN HIs
WHILE OBTAINING A DRINK. %s

STORE AND FIRES TWO SHOTS AT HIM,

Lia
hice dor t- y : |

Sah

NN A
mil i inl iV"

uel

i. ay q

\ F gf
Wie
N Z H

WY AS XX
LANA Te _
QX OX

N \ DANS

ANN \

SN “La

= SAX
aN SS
ee Z
mo if BB

SE a

pig

S EE

WSS ee
SOSn ais
YS alla
SSS et ‘

A MANIAC’S DEED.

A CHINAMAN WINS AN AMERICAN GIRL.
HE KILLS HIS MOTHER aND A FRIEND NAMED JOHN MORGAN WITH AN AX IN A
é has FIT OF TEMPORARY INSANITY.

iti

DRAGGED TO DEATH BY MASKED MEN:!
PORT HURON, MICHIGAN, CITIZENS TREAT A BRUTE TO A LITTLE DOSE OF NECESSARY MEDICINE.

i ai HM
ih ii iH i i l | i

TOM HAT, A FULL-BLOODED CELESTIAL, AND MISS CLARA SHATO, A PREITY

6 THE NATIONAL POLICE

GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

TAT BLACK FRIDAY.

clea Up “the: Debris of
the Terrible Johnstown
Disaster,

SUNDAY ON 1 1 THE SCENE.

The “Work of of Mibcvering ‘the
« Dead Bodies Still in
Progress.

WEIRD SCENES AND INCIDENTS.

General Hastings Still on Cuard With
His Armed Assistants.

THE DEATH ROLL INCOMPLETE.

JoHNaTOWN, June 16—Another Sunday in Johnstown.
Another Sunday of desolation in the valley and .of
prayer and praise on the hillsides. Instead of the
boonjing of dynamite, the sound of sacred hymns and
of exhortation was heard‘everywhere. In the few
churches remaining services were held, but the largest
meetings of the day took place in the open air. The
weathbr was Saw and the men scemed glad of an op-
portdnitysta" urn‘from hard work to religion. a4
zathed ‘about the rough pulpits by the hundr
and th site’ coats of the militia were freely distributed
amon the’ jeans. Six denominations were represented
by thé clergymen who conducted the services. -

A RUSH FOR — .

Adjt:Gen- Hastings took his first vacation since he:
arrived in Johnstown, accompanying a party of newé-
paper correspondents up the Pennsylvania Road to
South Fork by special train.

To-day the wrecked engine of the limited express
was hoisted tothe tracks at Conemangh. The double
tracks w1ll-be down as far as Altoona by the middle of
the week. There are 3.600 men at work on the Pennagli-
vania road ¢racke between Johnstown and South Fork,
600 of w re experienced trackmen.

Six d were recovered to-day. They were in an

advancetly stage of Soa: and were buried

withoutidentification.
he channel iu the adrift was opened twenty feet wi:

afternoon. "Tonight 150 harrels of oil were emptied on.
the drift andignited. ‘The wreckage is burning fiercely
for 200 yards, and the entire valley is illuminated,
debris. was dearched previous to being ee but no
bodies were found.

All is gloom, and the stricken inbabstantajare but

* * MOVING DarY.

tone”

slowly rdgdvering from this awful blow which: nearly

wiped them out of existence on the fateful “Black Fer
day, May. Fd
Charitysig it ng ite work slowly but none the ties
surely, alt Ct Sedple thank God. for the beneficence
of the thas American public. Ko EN
The cit lf-his not markedly changed during the.
past weet ‘@ive*that the sickening odor of decaying ze

matter has: ‘intthe tiajority of spots given Way to that*

of dininfgotaints, which are being most Aavishly dije- |

tributed. * Otherwise ‘there is not any great difference
noticeab Indeed, the silence in the valfey' ‘seems to
have sede rather than grown lessinsthe week
gone by @interinittent crackling of the: fires and‘
the thundg¥ of the daily dynamite charge ‘st Stoney
Bridge Nae broken ‘the silence.” Rather they
seem to Eye be heighten it byso sharply calling at-
tention toit, The people have grown accustomed to
the sicht’ofthe fires burning.

The suggestion of Opposition lest the ashes of their
dead might thus be made to mingie with the uphbal-

lowed ones has ceased to exist,and men and women

ones, ‘ Ever and- anon one notices the’ flames leap
Jightly and brightly in some particular spot for’ a’ mo-

DREDGING FOR BODIES.

sensibilities, and the fires resume their normal lurid
appearance. The momentary brightness has been
caused by the fires reaching a mass of either extinct
animal or human life.

-To the easual observer the scene is a dreadful one.
To the people here, who have most reason to be hor-
rifled, it seems scarcely to appeal atall. There is such
a dreadful uncertainty about where any one perished
that they have grown to believe that their triende are
less likely to be near the scene of their former homes

jee,

than anywhere elae,'oF, to hope that they are amonz
the unidentified -who have'found at the hands of
strangers a resting t nder the great mounds that
now dot the hillsides of ‘the Conemaugh. There Jias
been so much sadness atid sorrow in this valley that
the hnman mind has been paralysed. as

It is rare, indeed, to se¢ the people speak at all. They
wander simjessiy abont between the ruins, the com-
missary department and the houses of the survivors,
in whieh they finda temporary shelter. Beyond’ the
fact that they are alive they have little to be thapkfnl
for. There are some few merchants who speak of re-
veeee and there 1s a wonderful activity displayed

by both. the Cambria Iron Works Cempany and the:
Gantier Steel Works, but beyond these there are few
who give apy outward indication that they have left
within them the semblance of ambition.

The soldiers on duty have overawed the riotous and
thieving classes, and they are well under subjection.
The only féar now is that thelaborers may become
dissatisfied and desert.

Every train coming here brings with it large num-
vers of workmen, but they scarcely stay here much
longer than is necessary to get away again. There is
too great dickeritng with them when they come here,
and unless some one will take hold of the contractors
or the snb-contractors there will be a dearth of men
before long:* Not more than-one third of the men who
could wort to good advantage liave thus far beeti en-

look calmly now on fires starte in places that a week |
ago they fancied contained the remfins oftheir loved °

ment w. — on ‘there is an odor sickening to the °

gaged, ‘and every where’ throngh® the'town'is the ‘fre-’

| quent sign: “600 mei "wanted at $1,50a day. - Apply to
| Camp Flinn.” ‘The

is nep-commmittal as to whether
‘it's witit or without rations. e
“Tre work of clearing np’ the reek’

on alive,
though, naturally, in the first -f

t the greatest

TROW HORSES SWAMPED.

obstacles have to be overcome. Some ides of the mag-

-nitude-of the task presented ~may be gathered from the

fact that now. down in Cambria City, which was qne of ’

the boronyhe of Johnstown, the workmen have-only
reached th: top of trains that were.buried campletely.

The deposit is packed so herd that but for the dis-

covery of the train and an occasional bit of a hotse or
a tree trunk found in it, one could hardly believe that
it had not always been there. The deposit and shale
is not of the same quality as that which composes
either the bed of the river or the softer loam about the
valley of the Conemaugh, but had been efearly carried
down from the mountaio side. It will be mon Byet
before Johnstown proper can be reached’ sufficiently
for people to begin to build with’ ‘any certainty as to

the exact location of their lots. Meanwhile, they are :

living with those who survived, while all are depend-
ent upon the alms of the world.

There is no more sickness than there was a week ago,
a gratifying and surprising fact when it is considered
that the breaking up of the houses and the digging into
the debris might naturally be supposed to stir up
germs that would lead to contagion. The medical gys-
tem is well attended tu. The only department in which
it is not thorough, and, to do it justice, in which it

does not pretend to be thorough, is in the statistics of
the dead. H
There is really no method whatever in this. All bodies
found are supposed to be reported, but the rule has
not been enforced, and until the canvass of the living
is made it will be impossible to ascertain the exact

number. It will not fall much under the estimate
formed by the newspaper correspondents who were
here through the worst of the scenes. The regime!

mauistracy insist that the loss is less, but they ot
be induced ‘to revee! the reasons which lead them to
their belief. “

The charitable organizations with headquarters here
are doing magnificent work. Their doors are open
to all the sufferers, and the attention bestowed upon
them by the voluntary workers is worthy of all praise.

There is a great drift yet of the wreck and the dead
about Stony Bridge, and, although dynamite has t
freely used, it will be a long time before the chamel
of the river will be cleared and the sickening sight’ re-
moved.

Asurvey of the valley of death discovers mapy
strange scenes. Yesterday an unknown girl, alinost’
nude, was found in the woods near Cambria City, wan-
dering about aimlessly. She had been crazed by the
cruel blow, and kindly hearts led her to a place of
safety.

Our artists have depicted other strange scenes that
can be witnessed hereabouts any day in the week.
They are strange, weird scenes, and they make the on-
looker weary and sick at heart.

There is no telling when the last body will be recov-
ered. TheJudgment Day .alone will reckon up the
final counting.

_ FORTUNE'S FAVORITES.

Two Families ‘Made Happy by the Louisiana State
Lottery.

“I think you are foolish not to keep at least one
whole conpon for youreelf,” said a friend to James
‘Adams, a well-known hay and grain dealer, who, hav-"
ing purchased: a half dozen tickets for the May draw-
ing of thé ‘Louisiana State Lottery, was engaged in die,

posing ot half interests in each.to some of his acquaint |
| ances.

“It seems to me,”’ continued the fnend, “that
you are sacrificing your luck; try for the whole prize.”

“I will for once,” laughed Adams; “but I’ve no luck
in that direction; never had.”

He did as he said. ensconsed the ticket, a twentieth
of 50.416, in an inside corner of his pocketbook and
walked off thinking no more of it. May l4th, the day
of the drawing, came, and with others Mr. Adamb
pressed up to the bulletin board whereon the lucky
‘numbers were written. Much to his delight he recog:
nized on the first line the figures of bis own ticket,
entitling him tothe handsome sum of $15,000. With-
out an instant’s delay he placed the lucky coupon with
Wells, Fargo & Co. for collection, and a few day? ago
he received his money. Mr. Adams possesses consid-
erable property in various parts of the city, a portion
of which was mortgaged. His first application of the
windfall was to relieve hiinself of these incumbrances,

and with & portion of ‘the remainder he proposes to ‘

take a trip to‘Europe.

A lottery ticket has often enough enabled twé lovers
‘to unite their lives, but one seldom hears of a: similar
office being performed by the same agency for a mar
ried couple. This has been the experience of Mr.

Alfred ‘and Mra. Margaret Friot, who. a few days be- |

fore May léth, were at daggers drawn. They kept Stall
57, Washington market, as a cheese and butter stand,
and both wereso thoroughly dissatisfied with the other
that each applied for a divorce. Their applications
were denied. atrange to say. but they continued to live
separate. One day after the drawing of the Louisiana
State Lottery, the two met, and the husband proudly
exhibited a coupon numbered 50.416. entitling him to
one-twentieth of the capital prize of $300,000—$15,000.
“Come to my arms.” said the erstwhile disgruntled
wife, and they embraced exuberantly. The next thing
was to collect the money, and the pair descended on
the Wells, Farzo Bank post haste, sent their coupon
throngh to New Orleans, and a few days ago they re-
ceived their prize in gold coin. They are now on their
way to Enrope, with hearts that once more beat in
unison.—San Francisco (Cal.) Call, June 5.

fii

“DEAREST” IBABELLA EVASSON.

. -=--> [Wrre PorTRaATT.~ <ceatete x8

Isabella Evasson,-like her sister, Estelle Clayton, is
one of the beauties of our stage. She is at p-esent
playing the part of Dearest in “Little Lord Fauntieroy”
_with gress success, *

‘be put up inits stead. It was the counterpartof- the

THE OLD AND THE NEW.

RET. eo

What it Knows About: the
: ‘Police Gazette.

The New York Evening World of June M1 has the fol-
lowing:

A grocer near Franklin Square was asked yesterday

if he knew that George Washington had lived “around. ,

“Who?”
*George Washington.”

The New York. Evening World: Tells

*I don’t know where he lives,” said the sonal 59

thoughtfully.
*‘Where did he live ?”

The grocer scratched his head:as 8 if he was trying to at

remember, and said: ‘I don’t know.”

Washington’s house stood where Cherry and Pearl

streets come together and form‘a point alittle blunter
than one of the points at Five Points. It had ‘becn a

tavern, the *‘Franklin Housé,” and had been fixed up '
for the first President. He rented it, and a'‘receipt ;-.

atill extant shows that at o one time he paid £9 10s rent
to the landlord.

The house was still standing there a few years before
the outbreak of the civil war. On its site now stand
the “Police Gazette” cigar store, the ‘‘Police Gazette”
shaving parlor and a machinery warehouse. ‘To the
right of it is a large wine cellar, under the Bridge, and
near by the bridge cables are anchored.

THE OLD.

If, by some magic, the first house of the first -Presti e 4
-dent could be restored, and by some miracle Washing-- :

ton could come and look out of the window, he would

ee wenn -- sah

~ ge tee

see on his right hand the elevated railway, and opposite ~

his house the talland handsomely basapestions building
of the PoLick GAZETTE,

Directly abov- the roof of his besten he would observe

the Brooklyn Bridge. He would hear the roar of ‘the :

elevated trains as they rushed through Queen street,
the name of Pearl street when he knew it. and he would
feel like suing the elevated company for injury to his
feelings and property. -

If he put on his three-cornered hat, walked ' down his
doorstep and promenaded through-Cherry street, he

would find, not half a block from his own house, the

worst alleys, the foulest court-yards, the most hideous
tenement houses on the face of the globe. Country
peuple who want tosee how we have progressed in a
century sifould not fail to visit the tenement houses
within a hundred feet of the site of Washington’ 8 old
home.

Washington, continuing his walk down the street,
would naturally observe the sailor’s boarding-houses
and note many signe advertising cheap lodgings. _ He
would meet scores of Italians. ~

It is claimed by some that the PoLick GAZETTE build:

ath §

THE NEW.

ing stands on the site of the house in which Washing-
ton lived. YIhere is also a tradition that Washington
once lived in the Walton House. which stood on ‘Pearl
street, afew doors below the PoricE GAZETTE ‘Office |
and was torn down in 1882 that a good “patiding might

sailors’ boarding-house which still stands next th'the
PoLicE GAZETTE office. mr z

If any one .is inclined to betieve the stories about.
“fine houses” in New York in Washington's time. -when
pigs wallowed in the unpaved streets, he should go
and see this sailors’ boentlige-hegee., for it was one of

the fina honses.. .. - aeaaoen

KILRAIN'’S COLORS.—The new of Jake Kilran are
now ready. Sporting men, saloonkeepers and others can obtain
them by forwarding $3.50 tw this office. Ricuagp K. Fox, Frank-
lia Square, New York.

* Colors”

Sete &

‘aha
ate ae 8

ce ete renters se ena + Openly emanate

ee ane ae

se ew EDO

—_— wn Cf ob aos mh

THE “NATIONAL POLICE

GAZETTE:

\ CRUSHED: CADET...

A Story of Ii Importance
to West Point Gradu-"
ates and “ ‘Plebs.”

entitle

A PLEB'S REMINISCENCES.

The. ae Fiend. Ie .

“of Cadet life.

HE WENT THROUGH 1 THE CIRNAGE. |

reli freaks of Frisky Fellows

~ “at the Famed Fortress.

HOW <THE INDIANS WERE SAVED.

The! West Point cadets who ate learning the

A-b, ab, cayéh a.crab,

N-o, no,:let him go,
of military tactics, or tictacs, or whatever they call.
’em, and who’ are out on furlough, and ‘the stiffand
prim eraduates who have just shaken the dust of West:
Point from their linens: and*bhave sprang forth ‘fall-
fledgeji leftenants, readg to face the’ muzzle of a ram-
rod of a schooner, and who are prepared to fight

blow or dye for their country, are now in town doing |-

the sights, twisting the tail of the-local eléphant, and
crushing susceptible heafts right and left,

The poor *“‘plebs,” or plebians—those ‘who have just
enterddthe carnage seminary that nestles under the
back stoop of Cro’ Nest, on the Hndson—are monkey-
ing with the rudiments of army housekeeping, or are
sneaking under their beds to escape the machinations
of the desperadoes, brigands and carbonari who have
been left behind to keep guard over them and prevent
their suffering from ennui.

And that reminds me.

When the 70’s were beginning to sprout their wings
a Brooklyn Congressman—which city at that time had

I WAS GAY AND DEBONA(R.

the honor of my good fellowship—was unkind énough
to send me to West Point. Every schoolboy in'Brook-

lyn was at that-time breaking his heart because he
couldn't get an ‘appointment. I grabbed:the’plum.

I thonght afterward that it was a scheme on the part
of the Congressman and my parentg to‘ have me mur-
dered in cold,chilly blood, with=dall- ccs raced
trimmings:

On my way up the fiver, accompanied - by. my, plug
and gripsack, T-bnilt many ‘hir caatles.”:I pictured'whiat

a hot time-the Indians on the plains’ would *haverof F-.

it when ['gotto’be an‘o Ithadn'’t many‘ {ndians
on my list of: acquaii swith: the ‘exception of
those that do the ro}ler-skatevact ont of cigar stores in
the morping- and+in! at night,- but ‘I felt sure‘that
Indiana weld have toroost high while .I was around
or be grabbed off their perch. - »

The onty’ thing. that troubled me was how’ I" was
going to ride a horse and hold on with one hand while

splitting Indians into tenderloins with my sword with |.

the other; for I had never: tried“ to ride a horse’but
once, and then I was carried home by three’ neighbors
of my parents with all mv back head worn off. --. .”

I arrived at the.conclusion that they would teach me

to ride before they trusted me out with»a horse, and |.

then I arrived-at Garrison’s. Crossing the river in a
little’‘penny doat,I climbed the hill blithesome, and ‘gay,
and happy. and debonair, and reported at the com-
mandant’s residence, and presented my: credentials.

I was gizen over to the tender mercies of a member
of the*Reguiar Army O,” who conducted me before
the medical board for physical exanrination. I was
ushered into a room where three gentlemen, whom I
afterward ascertained to be physiciana,mmade me feel
at home by telling me to take off my clothes.

I began to turn sour and wished I was‘at home. If at
that moment I-had seen Indiana attempting to steal
the dodgasted country rT wouldn’t have killed one of
them.

“Come, take off your clothes, and hurry, too. There

‘the chest.

| tic_doloreauz, spiral maginnis and other entrees lurking

“Certainly. ‘How are we , to examine you if you don’t -

strip ; :

T started into say that [ had been acquainted with
myse}lf for several years, and ‘thst if they would take
my word for it I was as‘ Sound: as the East River.. But
they were cvidently skeptical about'the authenticity.of

1' WA A ‘BIRDIE. '
my certificate, and I~was compelled to take off every- |

thing but my hair,, and that felt as if it were getting
tired, too.

Then one physician approached me coquetishly, and
I could feel myeelf blush from centre to circumfer-
ence and all the way back. 1 was blugh and natural in’
streaks, like the: Star Spangied Banner.for which I was
going to risk my life. The physician or surgeon, as
we cal} ftin military parleyvous, then tapped me on

¥ isaid: ‘Come in.”
* He turned me more sour with a look that exploded

that it was the sundown gun that had gone off.

I shivered and sounded like a rattle-box.

Then he massaged me all over my blushing outside”
and while he was doing it another surgeon was listen
ing with his ear u:ainst my back.as if he suepected that
there was a prize fightor something going on inside,
and that I was trying to sneak it into camp.

‘They then compelled me to hop around the room on
one foot and then on the other,.until I imagined that I
was a -dingbasted kangaroo. . ‘Then. they made me

opposition wind mills, I had to. do a whole:lot of other
stunts, among that of making believe I was blind of
first one eye and then the other, and then reading lean
and then fat type at different distances.

Finally they told me that I was souhd. I was hoping
and praying that they had discovered consumption,

about my person, but Iwas doomed to horrible disap-
pointment. I wanted to go right straight home, but
there wasn’t sufficient evidence to forth a belief; as
Abe Hummel! would say, that 1 was going home. They
wanted to have more fun with me.

I redonned my clothes and “shiny.” grasped my grip,
Regular Army O was summoned end I was conducted
to my quarters. where | was to remain on view
until my mental examination took place. I was led,
more dead than alive, to the door of the cadet officers’
room. Regular Army O tapped on the door, and then
stieaked away. I begged him to take me with him and
drown me, but he must have been deaf. He evidently
thonght that I had said a joke, for he snorted and
slapped his off legas he cantered down the stairs.

While I was wondering if I had struck a lunatic asy-
lum: the doorwas suddenly opened and’ I was invited
to.come inside with a jerk that made me imagine that
the West Point had :run off the track.” My hat was
knocked off head. and my grip struck a desk and was
sadly fractured and contused. I started to reclaim it,
when*I-was caught by three cadets in uniform, who
stiffehed me ont.and placed my noge against a tack in
the wall. Then‘ they: plastered my hands down ‘the’

seams of my trousers, drove my chin up against my
wiah-bone and informed me that was the first position
b of a soldier.

I had never: seen a soldier in that position be-
fore, and I began to think if that was the way they
stood when a‘ battle was enjoying itself there was no
wonder so many were killed if the other side caught
them .doing' the act, and I tried to tell them so, but
they told me to shut my fiy-trap, and I did it.

Then they asked me all sorts of funny ‘questions,
such as if I had powder in my trunk; if my grandfather
was a Spanish pirate; if I could stand on my head and
wag my ear, and other necesrary questions to test my
knowledge of Hardee and Upton, and then they sent
‘me up to my to-be quarters, informing me, first, that if
I attempted_..to smile I wonld- be taken down to Fort
Put and shot with military precision and dispatch.

They couldn’t have found‘asmile about me with a
sixteen-button microscope. Twas scafed. I felt likea

“All of them ?’1 asked, shudderingly.

‘behind barricades adwain bul)'s-eyea.on my hat with.

| Several Occasions. I thought of starting a riot, but ‘a:
‘doing the same etants with the “plebs" to come.

| amination I
' had had that

West Point, as I thought.. I afterward ascertained: |;

swing my armsin opposite directions until I resembled |:

My quarters were on the third floor back, and there
were eight other “plebs” in the room awaiting exami-
nation. They langhéd whenI camein. They had all
been through the mill, and they went into ecstacies
over my misery. Wo remained there a week, and the
cadets had plenty of fun witly ug al] the time. They
made us jump from onr trunks to the mautel, and
then stand and whistle as if we were measly birds.
They changed the programme by catching usin the
yard at times and setting on us as if we were blankera-
tion toboggans. / They*appesred to have an inborn ani-
mosity against pr plug hat, and it-soon resembled a
concentrated co! cértina with the pip. They would lay

bricks, back-num bereits, obsolete Wmatoss and des-
‘uetuded oranges. -

They wou us when we were: encase toward*
mese-hall show the giddy, kittenish girlies how
nicely we could -msgrth.. :

My hot castile (soap) blood rebelied at this, and on.

friendly cadet confidentially intormed me that’the
playfulness was customary,.and that next: year I'd be

I nearly died. there. The tricks became funnier and
funnier every day, and finally I got tired. At the ex-
80 overawed by the pleasant time I
didn’t know a fraction from a bayonet,
and couldn't fell on which side of the East river Brook-
lyn was.
One morning carly I stole out of bed, grasped what
was left of my grip and hat. and let West Point regeidt
out for another job. The Indians will kindly make‘a

~ wer

= WSAY\ Ss

\ Yi ae

Swgy) [4 it cf

aos pons oe

se po

EJECTED AND DEJECTED.
note of kindly forethought for them and pin it in their
hats, and save it for reference ‘should they ever catch
me on the plains. My leaving West Point saved a good
many of their lives, for 1 came of a bloodthirsty race
and fairly gloat over gore when I think I have a gore
duty to perrm. QUEVEDO.

" THE CRONIN: TRAGEDY.

Alexander Sullivan, Charles McDonald and John J.
Moroney Arrested.

Since the last regular issue of the PoLice GazEeTre
there have been several startling developments, or al-*
leged developments, in the now celebrated Cronin
murder case of Chicago. Alexander, Sullivan, the
prominent Irish Jeader, has been placed under arrest.
in Chicago, and‘ John
J. Moroney and Charles
McDonald of New York
have been arrested in
this city by Inspector
Byrnes, who acted un-
der instructions from —
Chief. Hubbard and
State Attorney Longe-
necker, of Chicago.

The Chicago authori-
ties claim to be able‘to
prove that the three
men named were at
least accessories to the
brntal murder, and as- :
sert that Moroney is the ALEXANDER SULLIVAN.
man who purchased the furnit to furnish the Carl-
son cottage at Lakeview, “ane te Cronin go cruelly -
met hia di

On June r the police had gained an alleged
clew that Moroney was implicated in the “removal” -of
Cronin, they obtained a photograph of him and Mc-
Donald, ang, mixing-them with a number of others,
they show em to Salesman Hatfield. @& Revell‘&
Co., who sold: the furniture. Mr. Hatfield without:
hesitation picked out Moroney’s portrait as that of the’
man to whom he sold the furniture

The pictures were then mixed up and shown ‘to Mr.
Throckmorton, the real estate agent who rented the
rooms on Clark street, opposite Dr. Cronin’s office, to
which the furniture was first carted from Revell’s.
Mr. Throckmorton picked ont the picture of Moroney
as the man to whom he rented the rooms.

Once more the pictures were shuffled. and this time
they were shown to Expressman Martenson, who car-
ried the furniture from the Clark street rooms to the
Carlson cottage, in Lake View, where Dr. Cronin was
murdered. The result
was the same.

the furnitui e moved.
. Neither’ of these _per-
‘sons ‘knew © what’: had
been ‘done by the-other.
In each’ of ‘these cases
the man gave his name
as J. B. Simmons.

Late this - afternoon
Mrs. Conklin identified
_ the picture as that of
the man who came with

JOHN J. MORONEY. *
a carriage to her house and took Cronin off.
Requisition papere from Gov. Fifer were then ob-

_ Melville are identical.

Moro-«
ney’s picture was agafh |
selected, this .time-es,
the man who had hired*

Luke Dillon, the Irish leader, who*had been: instru-
mental in hunting up clews in the case, then obtainéd
Moroney’s signature, recorded in McCoy’ 8 Hotel regis-
ter at about the time of the murder® The sighature is
“W. L. Melville,” but the clerk of the hotel identified
the picture and unhesitatingly said that Moroney and
It was also through Dillon’s in-
strumentality that the coroner’s jury returned a ver-
dict implicating Sullivan and McDonald.
Upon his arrest Sullivan was given more or less com:
fortable quarters in the cell immediately over the one
in which Linng, the anarchist,; blew his head off with
a dynamite cartridge.. Sullivan emphatically asserted
his innocence, and during the rest of the week- his
counsel were engaged in a fruitless endeavor.to secure
his release. &-
Moroney and McDonald :were ‘locked up in the
Tombs,-in this city, and*their respective counsel
-busied eematives in pursuing alike course, beret

avail, .

“T am reais: to go’ to.Chicago whenever aw want

me I was willing to. go yesterday, but my friends,

-who-fiave my interests at heart. interfered. The whole
-matter is that the crowd ‘of which Luke Dillon, of Phil-
adelphia,.and John’ DevVoy,.of New York, are members
havé entered into a conspiracy to down Alexander 8ul-
livan. I don’t believe SulNvan had anything whatever
to do'with-the crime. In regard to tiie ‘accusation
against myself, I will say that I have not been in Chi-
cago since October, 1887. I was ‘then on my way to
Omaha, in the early part‘of that*month,.and missed
60 8 -with- the. C.,"B. & Q.:and .was obliged to
over in Chicago until: the next day. ‘Ican prove

, “py dozens of people’ that I-was- inthis city’on May 4,

when Cronin disappeared. -I was engaged in obtaining,
signatures to a petition for the appointment of a friend
,to a political position, and*on one of the days I ‘called
ion.A friend in Brooklyn who: was stopping: “honie'with

yen pate sigk children.

“Kaowing the animus.of Dillon and his ring. I'am
ccertain that they would
stop at nothing todown
Sullivans and hia friends:
There ‘a not a:man in.
the organization. who.
wa Hike to see the S
rers arrést-
pg and’: nvjcted, as I
think ‘hag put back
-ourcanse east twenty

‘years — 7 y eventu-
ally 1 ption
If It ‘Sullivan ¥

was guilty I would be
the first to denounce’
him, but I think:he ie'ag” 9
innocent asthe unborn.
bate: The-records of
the Clan-na-Gael will
show that I have always
opposed murders or assassinations for revenge’or any
cause whatever.”

When asked. if he knew McDonald, Moroney raid:

“Yes; I know McDonald, and believe him to be inno-
cent of any participation in the crime. _ He is hard
working and iridustrions, and I am satisfied that he
‘had no connection with the murder of Dr. Cronin.”

When interviewed, McDonald. also anserted his in-
nocence. Said he:
- “The alleged identification of the photographs
doesn’t worry me in the least, although they look very

CHAS, MCDONALD. |

I never had any taken except with the menin-the shop.
On May 4 the day they say I was in’ Chicago, I was
over in Jersey City with afriend. I never go outside
of New. York except once in a great while, when I‘take
a run over to Philadelphia to see. my agent, who ‘takes
care of ‘a little property I own there. ‘I have never
been in: Chicago in my life, except-when I changed
‘cars while en route for California. I.can’t understand
why I have been dragged -into this trouble. _ Dillon
and I were‘friendly, and only a short ‘time. ago, when
he was here, we spent some hours together.”

On Thursday, June 13, Govetnor Hill was ‘applied ‘to
for a requisition in order that Moroney and McDohald
might be taken to Chicago for trial,..but the Gdvernor
denied the application on the ground that there was
not sufficient evidence of their guilt,and that-the ap-
plication was not accompanied by-an indictment. °:

In the meantime a grand jury had been empanelled
in Chicago, ard an alz ost superhuman effort was
made to inidict’the three men.- Wrile they were delib-

‘| erating Judge Tuley released Sullivan on $20,000, de-

ciding that the evidence was not sufficiently strong to
keep himincarcerated.

On Saturday Woodruff, who had given all of: the
points to the pdlice upon which the three men named
and others had been arrested, flopped around and de-
nied everystatement that he had ‘made implicating
the others and told an entirely new story.

The Wednesday before the murder Woodruff met
Coughlin, who asked him to take a note over to Sulli-
van. This note was in cipher, the same as had been
used by the Fenians when ‘Woodruff was at Niagara.
“Woodruff looked at it and says it read: ‘“‘Going up to P.
O. Sullivan’s.”

The remainder of his confession deals:mainly with
the night of the murder.: Coughlin, so Woodruff al-
leges, paid him $25 to’ bring to Lincoln avenue from
Dean’s livery stable a conveyance in: which‘a -trunk
could be carried. -

” Here follows a new version of the ride with the trunk
4 and the disposal of the body.

- Woodruff now says the intention was to have the
trunk-sunk in’*Lake Michigan off Lincoln Park, ‘but
thinking they were pursued, the plan was abandoned.
‘Woodruff asrerts that Cronin’s instrument case was
probably buried or thrown in the lake by Melville and
- Williams: when they left the wagon in the woods ‘fora
short time at Edgewater... He does not know what’ dis-
position was made of the clothing.

The climax of the'whole confession is an assertion
by Woodruffthat all his previous alleged ‘“‘confes-
sions” are spurious and that this is ‘‘the first and only
stateme: t I have made since my arrest,” the intima-
tion being that the other confessions were circulated
by interested persons to create:the impression- that
Wooé@ruff was a liar.

Thue: the matter stands as the POLICE GAZETTE ges
to press, and the Grand Jury has refused to indict
Moroney and McDonald. Now for the next‘act!

Moroney and’McDonald were released by order of
Judge ‘Andrews. in the New York Supreme Court, on
Monday.

A CHINAMAN WINS A AN AMERICAN GIRL.

[SUBJECT_OF ILLUSTRATION, |.

tained and a Pinkerton detective started for New York

little landscape that the mountain streamlets were
triekling over, an ‘ ‘_

- with them, >

“st. Paul. Neb., is shoc kea over the marriage of “Tom
Hat, a full-blooded Chinaman, to Miss Clara Shato, an
American girl, which took place recently. ‘om is a
jlaundryman and claims to be a naturalized citizen,

Louuty Judge Hannibal performed the ceremony,

queer. I don't eé how they obtaffied my photograph,as -

so nanwneticteenncienn-intpe-iatieetaiean aly

WI UY Yy

AN EXPLOSION IN A: SQUIB FACTORY. GAGGED BY A BURGLAR,

DOUBLE FATALITY CAUSED BY THE IGNITION OF POWDER IN A ST. CLAIR, _ . MRS. WINKLER OF BROOKLYN, N. ¥., HAS A SAD EXPERIENCE WITH A SOOUN-
PENNSYLVANIA, MANUFACTORY. DREL. WHO BINDS AND ROBS HER. .

i a aD

{i y(t

(i ly fl

oo . : Nee
SR | — Soon
4 ee ee I i

A’ ROUGH-AND-TUMBLE IN COURT.
WHILE THE TRIAL OF WALT BRADNEY IS IN PROGRESS AT PITTSFIELD, ILL., HIS FATHER STARTS A RUMPUS,

HROLATITI TELAT TT EAT LA DATLRTT TESA LSTET CRITI

OUD

Wy MY /

SSS So

ae ener ae

ce eae

ee ee ae

poppe anaes

THE NATIONAL PoLICE GAZETTE: NEW

‘York.

A CORONER'S 5 IY. QUEST.

Will the Dallas Club Use-Guns
ee for Bats?

« JUNE’S” JOVIAL JOCULARITIES

What Is the matter with “Charlie-horse?” , It certainly can't,

be that he has pegged out. For ® year or so he was king of
the diamond, but now we seldom hear his name menttoned.

Many, of the young phe nal pitchers are being buried.
deep in the soup this season under the new rules. ©

Joe Quest .has received his
just dues. The Sacramentos
signed him and gave him
advance money, but Joe,
instead of proving “true
blue,’ Jumped his contract
and sneaked back East like
a cur and joined the To.
ledo club. Men who stoop
to such dirty, dishonorable

trickery seldom prosper, and

the result was that he did

not come up to expectations

and was dropped like a hot
coal. No one sympathises
- with him, owing to this one
unprincipled act, that will
stick to him through life.
Grant, who at one time
played with the Buffalo club, has at last drifted into his own
class. He is-now with the famous Cuban Giants,

The Dallas.glub made a fine exhibition of themselves June 3,
at Houston. They were being beaten and were using -every
means they, could to brenk up the game by kicking over every
possible point ‘they could bring up, until finally one of the Hous-
ton boys wag stealing to. second base, and the Dallas catcher
threw the ball down to head him off. The ball accidentally hit the
umpire, who was standing between the pitcher’s box and second
base, go he declared the ‘ball dead and ordered the runner back
to first. The Dallas boys would not abide by the decision, and,
after making @ dlegraterul kick, withdrew from the fleld. The
umpire justly gave.the game to the Houston club.

De Wolfe: Hopper felt that his life was too precious to risk it
on the briney deep to go to
Staten Island to. see his
Giants play ball, so he has
given them the cold shoulder
and is devoting his atten- -
tions to horse racing.

The Minneapolis Journal
has taken to giving tips, and
in addition to horse racing
they have taken: up base-
ball. Now, we would like to
back their fip, but here is
one we, do not quite under-
stand:,; “A tip tothe Minne-
apolis ‘ ball managers—The
boxes are hardly: the place
for the dames from Rune de
One. See?” -What that has
0 do with giving, usa pointer
as to which ‘club js going
to win the game,.is a conundrum that we cannot exactly
solve. pea

It was bad enough tor White and Rowe to be laced by every
paper inthe United States for assuming to understand their

own business better than the baseball scribes understood it for
them; Dut now:they are getting it in the neck, just as severely,
beenush the-Buffalé club does not come up to the expectations of
the baseball writers.

Oh! if. we only had a few men Hike Kingsley, as a Chattanooga
baseball writer, in speaking of him, says; “Kingsley stepped up
to the bat, with a home-ragJook upon his face, and everybody
breathed easy when the ratti'gtppped pre game.” The trouble
with us is that when they get Up there they: generatly have a
get out look upon their face.

They . say out West that Elmer Foster was finding the bat
again.* The trouble with him here was his inability to find the
ball after finding the bat.

The Boston press are very Jubilant over the success of their

: club,which they consider in,
vincible, and in their eyes
nothing but championship
pennants are floating
around the Hub. The last
trip of the Boston club to
New York, however, must
have been asevere blow to
their ardent expectations.
Several beaneating scribes
accompanied the club to
New York and threw up:
their hands in holy horror,
yelling murder each day as
the New Yorks buried their
boys.in the soup.

. Columbus thought she had
agreat pnze in Mark Bald
win, but they now have urave suspicions that the popcorn bag
was tampered with.

Gillespie, who used to play left-field tor the New York club,
was always considered a very tough nut. But there isnever: a
man so tough but there.can be one found a little tougher. So
Aillespie’s nut could not ‘stand the pressure. “' He got into a row
with a fellow at Carbondale and got his head so badly cut and
crushed.-that- it necessitated many stitches to be taken by a
surgeon. “Gill” is very severely, and possibly fatally, injured,
while-his assailant is quietly aera the result in close confige-
ment,

Old man Anson has taken a reef of his sail, and is not quite so
overbearing .with Jimmy
Ryan: since, Spalding:. has
corcladed . to retain the
latter, in Chicago. The two
are pulling a “pretty even
stroke now,. and Ryan is
=e the - of his

“ni an exchange: This is
how. at” happewed: Higgins
didn’t think hegould get it
and called ..to ‘Wheelock to }
take ip. Wheetsck claims he |
conldp’t have reached. it.
Howéver, these gentiemon -
have agreed ona method to
obvigte the. difficulty. in’
the future, © Both will: make
a grand rush for 1t, Zand
if it - gets , away < there
will be. little question
that it is very bad.’’ What :
in h-— is it? If you can guess it you can have it.

The Clovetmnd cinb-are away pnoew, and their admirers. are-
shouting so loudly that they can be heard a!l over the
United States. You can even hear the daily press shouting: “Get a
brace on you, Cincinnati. Cleveland is doing honer to Ohio, and

your chicken-hearted crew is queering the State,”
The Philadelpbis -pgople, evidently, do not think the Brook,
lyns are in it, as “the press “of. that -elty came out with the an-

nouncement that now the fight for the Association pennant be-
gins in earn est—June 13, when the St. Louis and the Athletics
played their first game.

sand dollars a year, as you

, @ood” tor*’evll his always: |

~“| visiting playera are- all sev-

apassions of \ the: spectators,

» arena, as:there was a: few. years ago. .

One of the things that Conway could not. get{through his 1 nut
was why he was sent pack to Kansas Citv .when ‘he was never
in better health and condition In his life: Youth has much to
learn. There has been many a healthy :1an in prime condition
that has been knocked clean ont of sight.

Some of the extra ss date are earning their salaries so easily,
at bench-warming, thatthey |

are becoming extremely un-
easy.

The Cincinnati people have
taken to going on their
knees. regularly every day,
and praying for a little of
the old-time fielding and 4

batting on part of the Reds,
while the daily press try to
spur the boys on.to better
work by. getting off such
stuff as follows, -viz.: ‘There
is ascrew loose somewhere
in the Cincinnati team, but
* it will take a search warrant

: and a detective to determine
just where the hitch in the y is located.”

The Philadelphin /nquirer is fully aware of Stovey’s ability to
_kick, as they warn the umpire to keep his wits about him when

Stovey and’Commiskey begin to talk. é

‘Whenever you see your best girl sticking pin-holes through a
visiting card to indicate the runs, you can gamble that she has
your measure,-even if she does not succeed in re you into
buying her a acore:card.

Dom Pedro Hotaling tooms serenely .in Chattanooz, where
they are very well pleased * ‘with his andi, wa mourn his
-sijence at the bat.

Hofford does not meet with much success of the Southern
League. Of course he tried the old racket Of favoring the bome
club. His decisions are so rank that they acrnayly smell.

Of all-*gallus” ball-players
in the arena Ramsey, the
pride of Louisville, takes the
cuke. He hangs his hat on
one ear and strikes a pea-
cock stride on the diamond
field that would ‘make a
colored dude drop dead with
envy.

P. @—We are unable to
tell you exactly where Sadie
Houck is at present, but we
think he is either the presi.
dent of some banking house
or mining company, with
a salary of twenty-five thou.

know he quit the baseball
arena for the reason that he
could not really live on less
than three hundred dollars
per month, and at that time
he was at the lower round of
the ladder of fame.

Fagan, the pitcher of the Denver club, is very popular with
the batemen of the Western Association. They all take great
delight .in seeing which of them can’ bis nis balls the hardest
and the furtherest.

Poormen is confined to his bed with throat trouble. It
seems hard that a trouble of that sort should not fall to the Jot of
a richman.

Old man Sutton, since he has become a manager, is just be-
ginning to tumble to the fact that umpires are horrible crea-
tures. About two-thirds of the games that the Milwaukee club
loses he saddles upon the backs of the umpires. Anybody can be
a successful manager, but it takes a man with iron nerves
to tamely submit te defeats. \

Papa Anson has at last discovered that the only way to get
along with Ryan is to humor the kid.

Fagin did not stop long in -Des Moines, as their whisky was so
bad that it made him un-
uteady on his feet every time
he drank it. The club, there-
fore, could ‘not hold him to.
his contract, as there is no
clause in the National agree-
ent that compels a player to
_ Femain in a ball town-where
the grog is unpalatable.

Reddy Mack and. Lyons
came near having a run in
during a recent game. in
. Baltimore. They would have

had it out, according to Lon-

don prize ring rutes, right
thereon the diamond field
had it not been for the in-
terference of the other play-
ers. Referee Gaffney decided
the fight a draw,and,instead

of postponing it tlil another:
day, fined Reddy Mack ten dollars.

The Cincinnati club must be getting away low in finances,
when they fine a man fifty dollars for oversleeping himself.

Lynch is far from being a first-class umpire; but, indifferent
as he is, he is worth a dozen such men as Barnum.

Catching files is not what it is crackagl up tobe. Little Earle
recently Injured his index finger so badly,catching a fly that he
had to have a portion of his finger amputatéd. . We cannot see
how he hurt his fluger unless it was one of tose big, ertecces bot
tle files. - Pe.

If Gross intends ever to erect that home for injured and help-
less ball-players, he cannot get to work any too soon, for the
shelves are so full now that accommodations can scarcely be
found. for the men who are being crowded out by the young

The great and only Dan O'Leary; not the common pedestrian,
but the away up in G base- ;

dust of the diamond from | { | /
his shoes; purchasedabrand | |
now posing-as'the baseball

blood.
ball Dan. has shaken the
new pair of, sclasors, and is .

editor of one of the Detroit
dally. papers. Dan says “the
ball players roasted me, and
tow Iwill roast them.”

been Dan's mottu.

It is claimed: that visiting
clubds.recelve most wretched
treatment-in Toledo. The

erely_ criticised py.the. local
‘press, which-inflames the

éausing. them’ to forget” all
hospitality and .become.rude and vulgar on the-field.
Therels-pot.quite so much lushing done now in the baseball

It. is’ not that the.
managers have got better control over their ,piayers, but the
men are becoming more sensible, and tealise.the fact that they
are getting up-in years and need all: theig health and strength
to keep the youngsters trom driving them out of the field.

We do not. know what the gentleman:who gets up the ball
matter for the Press, of Philadelphia, has against Buck Ewing,;:
bute sags: “Somebody-had better sit on Buck Ewing.’ He ts
more fresh than any young Leaguer. in the profession.” We fall
to see: where Buck’s freshness comesin. He is not halt the
kicker that Anson is. Still, the latter is considered a great gen-
eral in baseball circles. We would like to accommodate the

-gentioman by-sitting-on Ewing. but we do not wish to pulverize
our captain until after he wins the championship at least once
more, although we have not the slightest objection to the gen-
tleman undertaking that little job: himself. The New Yorks
will be in Philadelphia July 22, 23 and 24, and he can use Buck
for a couch during those three.daya. “sUmE,”

N’s CoLo

KILR.
now venty: Sporting

© new “Colors” of Jake Kilrain are
them by forwarding $3.50 to this office. RicuarD K. Fox, Frank-

en, salnonkeepers and others can obtain.
jin Square, New York.

DEMPSEY’S WATER!

Sporting Notes From Here, There: and}
ie eal Bie. *

BETTING ONTHE $20 GD CONTES:.

Harry Maynard has been pleytow as tye mann re
enue theatre, and meeting with big success, i aS hs

Valuable hag gone: lame. The Besvarwyck. stabio
recently paid Frank’Harper $10,000 for her waning qnalities.4 ’

Billy. Meyer is going,to stay at Asbury Park for. a
month. His byother has gone back to.Streator, Ill, . ;

The backers of. Ted Pritchard wffer. to -back -him
against any man in the. world at 10 Rite io for £500 to

The blind race mare Irene, whieh<ei came within one.

“second ef the seven-eighths record recently, has 2 ar oy

Scroggan Brothers.

Mike Slattery defeated Wm:' Gibson;: ‘the. fast. Eng-:
lish’ sprinter, running 100 yards at Bravitente, on June 15, for:

In England Ted Pritch t 4: leo: Burns.
easily, and wun the middle-weight ‘championship ‘and £400.
($2,000). .Only 150 persons witnessed the fight...

The betting on the Kilrain and Sullivan fight has
changed from 6 to ¢ on Sullivan td 6 to 4 on’Etlrain.. This ts on
the strength of the report that Sullivan-was shirking dis sraing:
ing.

Johnny Reagan is going to wiehses the big mii.
between Jake Kilrain and John L, Sullivan. He will.leave this:

Aide,

city with a select party of sporting men on J: _ 30, .Mike Don- |

ovan will be one of the party.

Manager Slavin has received ibis entries
for his nine-day go-us-you-please race, which commences on June
29, at Sea Beach Palace, Coney Island; ; The. entries close on the
22d inst., at the POLICE GazETT¥ office, 7.

It has been definitely ncttded shed, ‘Babies ashton is
to second Sullivan in his battle with” : Ashton, who is

living in New York for the time being,

City with a party of Boston and Pravigetite,eports about the
soth. eS.

The Troy Crib Club offers: “purses. fer finish con-
tests between Mike Cushing and-Jack Hopper, Louis Jester ant
Billy Dacey, Paddy Smith and“Hitoe Mr. John G.
Fox, the president of the club, would ike ‘ts prem the rie
ties named.

The Southern California Athietis ks Nawioned
to Richard K. Fox that they had decided’ to*put up-#.purse of
$1,600 for Joe Eliingsworth to fight Jimmy Carrailjof: Brooklyn,
and that when the latter accepts the. matelis, sae, ap far as
they are concerned. ,

George Le Blanche will commencetraining on June:
29 for his battle with Jack Dempsey for $5,600.° Peter Jackson’s
trainer will have the mentorghip. of: “the: Murine. Le Biancbe
feels confident he will win, -He-clalms ‘that Dempsey only de--| :
feated him by taking unfair advantage of him at Larchmont,. | :
and that the Nonpareil is not half: — man physically: oted eH):
was then.

Kilrain says. ‘the does-not believe: Sullivan sabans®
business until he gets in the ring with him, Still hp doag Bot: |
propose to take any chances on Sullivan backing‘aut, Just how.
He is going into training-as soon as he cafi ‘séttio.on. a place, ant
if Sullivan. backs down. the world will know. who ‘eo thie dattor?|:
man of the two,” ‘<e

‘Wm. O’Connor, the champion, oarsman,: who. holds: |

‘the Richard K. Fox champion challenge-cup, and who is matetie'|+

ed to row Harry Searle for $5,000. and the championship Of: tWek
world, has returned to nto. In an interview, O'Connor
he would leave .tor.Engiahd about July 1, and_on «his arrival he:},
would put up at the Ship, at Mortlake, so that it would’ be Gopi |.
venient for him to train. - George Lee will accompany the cham-*
pion, and train him for his race with the Australian champion,
Aspecial from Belfast, N. ¥., June 15, says:- Mul- 4
doon and Sallivan: have ‘had a serious quarrel. . Sullivan, was.
practising with the sand bags and balls... Muldcon made.some..
suggestion and Sullivan replied roughly. © Muldoon- said-he.
would have_no quarrel and walked away... Muldoon does het:

_know anything about training, and he was giving: say

wrinkles the latter did not beliéve jn.

Thos; Manning writes from Ironwood, Mich.,, that:
he intends going to San Francisco with ‘Johnny ‘Van Heest, the
well-known feather-weight puzilist, who’ wih arrange @
match with the winner of the Griffin- Warren fight:; Van >Heest
has won the feathér-wejght. championship of the’ Northwest by

‘defeating ail the men in his class in this part of the country,

and as he cannot get amatch here we will go to the coast,
where he will make a match with any 120-pound man in America,

A. H. Spink, the editor of the ‘‘S porting. News,”’
St. Louis, telegraphed to the POLICE GAZETTE as follows:

A large delegation will leave this city to attend the Sullivan
and Kilrain fight for the “Polite Gazetté’* champion Delt, $20,000-
and the championship of the world. The delegation will com-
prise Prof. Wm. Clark, formerly of New York;Tom Kelly, the
famous English pugilist, who was one of Mike’ McCoole’s and
Tom Allen’s seconds, and who seconded Paddy ‘Ryan when he

“fought Sullivan tor the championship; Hugh McManus, the pu-

gilist; Bob Farrell, James Eagen, Tom Allen’sold backer; Andy

Kirk. John McManus; John Daly and others. Kilrain will have

mote friends at the ring side than Sullivan, : from present in-
dications, judging from the delegations I leary. are gomg from
Omahse, Kansas City, Council Bluffs and this salty,”

5° AH: SPINK.

The**‘Police Gazette’’ correspondent: womis the fol-
lowing particulars from San Francisco, of Jeckinrerer'* batie
with the Montana Kid:

June 10 Jack Dempsey, the Nonpareil, engaged. in an alterca.
tion with the Montana Kid, a pugiliet- and well-known rough-
and-tumble fighter in this city. . Dempeey slurred the fighting
abilities of the latter, when a hand-to hand fight ‘enaued, when
the Montana Kid used fists:and feet on. Dempsey; and in a
clinch that followed threw the cyampton heavily. Go-as-you-.
please rules were the ones that governed the affair;'and no soon.
er had the Montana Kid thrown Dempeey than he mounted: him
like a jockey would a horse and used : ‘teeth, nail and fist* to try-
and anrithilate the champions Dempsey’ fught deaperately, but
it wae of no avail, for the a gerard Kid, ditypunched and kicked .
the prostrate champion until Dehnpecy.called to his friends to
take the Montana Kid away.

Several of Dempecy’s friends. were eager to Jolr'in the -seram-
ble arid-rescne the champion, but. the. Montana, Kid’s friends
would net allow them to interfere, and the desperate, Western ;
pugilist continued beating and pounding . Dempesey- until he

‘acknowledged himself whipped’ and cried “enough,”.s which
caused a cessation, and the Montana Kid allowed..the champion
to regain hie: feet. -Demprey’s eye. was bieckened. cutand
badly gouged. He was frightfally. punished abont.the face, and
in fact.one of his friends said‘he received more punishment: and
was more disfigured than In .any battle: he -had fonght.: After
tho battle. the Montana Kid done the sporting houses lik a
hero, and was one. ofthe. lions ofthe hour because.he shad
whipped the Eastern champion.

At Morrisanta, N. Y:; on June'11, there was arifie-
shooting mateh for marksmanship that required greater powers
of endurance:thas skill and which superseded many of the won-
Aertul feats of A. H. Bogardus, Dr. F. W. Carver and other ex-
perts who have figured.in-endurance shagting contests, The

- match was bétween Gus Zimmerman, of the Zettler” Rifle” Clad,

and Fred W, Hofele, Preaident «(the Grand Army Rifle Aseoct,
“atim. The Yitateh grew out bf.a-rivairy between Zin an:

‘eiart. for Mississippi }-

Paes ;

Norah moatobaos' "Tho frat prise, a grand plane, whith mando
{eo tothe: marksman making the greatest number of buil’s-eyee,
twas won by Zimmerman, who nade over 2,800, defeating. Hofele
‘by several hundred. Hofele, however, was not satisfied, and
Sehailenged.Zimmerman to the match which finally came off.
‘Zimmerman . wanted to shoot for $500 or $1,000 a side, but $100
a esum agreed upon, *

“i 4a cessation at a 12 inch bull’s-eye at 200 yards, and the
“ghoouUng. was off-hand. According tc the conditions of the
h the competitor making the greatest number ot bull’s-
* se the three hours should be the winner, and any shot that
failed to hit the bull’s-eye Was not to count.

: Firing bezan at 2 o’clock andkept up without a moment’s ces- .
‘sation until 6. Zimmerman made only ten stops during the en-
tire tkree hours, and thoss'were of only a few seconds to‘per*
haps a mjnute and a half in Yéngth. Hofele did not make a sin-
gie pause. : Great drops of ration stood upon his brow, but
/ still thé crack of his rifle kept. sounding as though he were a
‘part ofthe mechanism which sent home the bullets, Ten min-
‘ utes after the beginning a ylolent rain fell and almost obscured
‘the tarjeta fora time, but the marksmen fired right on.

Though Hofele’s firing wag more constant, his rival’s was
more rapid. Zimmerman fired 846 shots, an average of 28% per
hour, or nearly S per minute. Hofele fired « total of 646, an av-
erage of about 215 an hour, or a little more than 344 a minute.

Hofele appeared to be badly used up. Sergeant T. J. Dolan,
of the Twelfth Regiment, who acted as referee, announced tho
‘result:’

No. fired. ae =

The Amateur Athletic Union held their first east-
ern championship meeting at Bergen Point, N. J., in a drizzling
, rails on. June 13. F. G. Brown, of the N.. J. Athletic Club, won
the two-mile bicycle race in 6 minutes 28 seconds. » W. L. Crist,
Ot Columbia College, was second.
“HE. L,’ Williams, of Yale College, won the 120 yard hurdle race
ft 17 8-6 seconds. . G: Mehwegier, of the Staten Island. Athletic

<¢tub, was second. wis eee
‘Je cPhomes Shearman, af be N. J. Athletic Club, won the one
lle hev!-and-tos : ini 7 minutes 143-5 seconds.

Wm. -Pollman, of the ne ‘Athletic Club, was second.
J. P. fee, of Harvara;-won the 220 yard race.

ning race. Bin, $1 8-5 seconds.

The 220 yard hurdle face was won by C. T. Wiegand, of the
N. Y. Athletic Club, with G, Schwegler sccond.

3 3-5 seconds.

The pole vauit wegsbaiiein toH. F. Baxter, of the C. C. A:'C.,
who went over at 9 fest-é faches: A. Schroeder, of the N. 'Y. A,
C., was second. PL

In putting the 16-pound shat George R. Gray, of the New York
. Athletic Club, threw-it 4t-feet @% inches. That gave him first
place. :J..8. Mitchell, ofthe: Gaelic Athletic Association, got
39 feet 5 inches, and C. AS, Quockberner 20 feet 334 inches.

G. “R.: Fearing, ‘in the running high jump, covered 5 feet 8
inches, : and 80 did: E. EB. Barnes, ‘They threw up a cent to deter-
mine the: winner, and Barnes was,.the lucky man,

In the next competition, threwing the 16-pound hammer, J. 8.
Mitchellgwho held: ti®° world’s record:-at 130- feet, made the
_hammer-go 184 feet 9 inches. ‘This triumph helped the specta-
tors ‘target the dis nm that had done so much to spoil the

track gantests, - pd they shouted loud congratulations to the

‘brawny: yonng man. Quegkberner was second, with 110 feet 3

Inch. -d. 3 Miténel@won in throwing the 66-pound welght,
matiag it go 29 feat,7 inches.

‘The ranning bfoad:jump was won by Wm. Halpin, of the N.
‘34 C, making 21 feet 734 inches; E. BE. Barnes next, with 21
tans | Anehes. :

Sy ENGLISH 1 MIDDLE-WEIGHTS.

“the prize fight between “Alec Bur Burns and Ted Pritchard, for
a4 and the middle weight championship of England, has
i Bocsead the topic in sporting circles in England for some time, and

dependent of the large stakes hundreds of dollars were wager-

Hon the result. Burns is twenty-eight years of age, and he is
tane of a family of tour brothers who have followed the trade of
“engineers, and also the pastime of boxing. An elder brother,
- dohn, was, before he turned Socialist leader and County Coun-
selllor, a well-known performer with the mittens, though his rec.
“ord is nothing compared with that of the subject of this notice.
[-Alec has been before the public for some years, and has engaged
Ain numberless cappetitions and matches of this class, though he
‘never, to our knowledge, fought a knuckle fight for a money
stake.

Ted Pritchard is younger than his opponent by some years,
and has been known in London for a much shorter period. His
‘knowledge of the art, which he has up to now practised so well,
‘was-gained by traveling with young Bub Webb as one ot the

; [2 latter’s troupe of boxers, an occupation that affords plenty of

Opportunity for acquiring proficiency.

Pritchard made his first bow in a competition before a London
audience at Frank Hinde’s
Christmas show at the
Aquarium, wherein he de-
teated Dave Galvin, Dick
Leary and Dave Burke in
the final. The form he then
showed was at once seen
tobe above the average,
<> and he was immediately
QW taken in hand and matched

\’ against Darby Hayes fora
9 g00d stake to fight to a
finish with small gloves. It
will be remembered he
polished Darby off in a
brace of squints, though he
has not yet tasted the an-
ticipated reward of his
labors.

In the first two rounds of the Hayes and Pritchard battle
Pritchard had much the best of the deal. He was checked a bit
by fierce efforts on Hayes’ part in the third round, but soon re
established his*big iead, and in: the tourth was quite safe to

he twice succeeded in reach-
ing with avery strong right,
and Hayes was assuredly
settled when the dogs, mon- .
‘grel curs ot 7H! war,
were let loose. . «
The ring ' was invaded: vy.
Hayes’ RADE, held -in - re-
spy the corner of the :
pokin who did not mean
‘to allow the fight to be re- £
‘newed, ‘and half a dozen free:
“fights; in which no one was
hit ‘and no one meant hit:
ting, were ‘started and: kept
up ‘till the’ police atorned
the‘magic circle, which was
irregular i outline by - ; :
réason of the post In Pritch- TED PRITCHARD. —
ard’s-corner: having given way under - undue leverage on Its
rotten stump. @
Then the free-fighters stopped their-gamés, but stopped in
the ring, and deluded spectators who had anything to lose
“sloped before. the reteree, B. J. Angle, who refereed the Sullivan
and Mitchell ‘fight, and after many attempts to gain hearing
ordered the principals or their representatives to meet him
next day. He then delivered a Solomonic judgment, which in
brief is that Hayes’ party by foul means prevented Pritchard’s
actual accomplishment of a victory legitimately gained, and
therefore divested their man of his minute remaining shred of a
chance.
Pritchard surprised all by his power and pace, while Hayes
“disappointed many in being quite nonplussed when met at his
ES datas ae of forcing the fighting. ing. ,

KILRAIN’s CoLors.—The new “Colors” of Jake Kilrain are
now ready. Sporting men, saloonkeepers and others can obtain
them by forwarding $3.50 to this office. RicHarD K. Fox, Frank-

and Hofele, which sprang up at the German Hospital fair sev-

jin Square,"New York.

‘Wm. ‘Dohm; ofthe N:-¥. Athletic Club, won the 440 yard run- '

knock his man out as soon as he got on the rizht piace, which’

- ae: net

Hepntestants stood up and blazed away with hardly a ©

P. D. Skillman won the sakes toile running race in'15 minutes ‘

The one-half mile acon won by W. C. Downes ia - aminutes. ‘

THE NATIONAL POLICE

GAZETTE: NEw Yor

RACE TRACK TRICKS.

How Bettors and Backers are
Bamboozled.

“ REFEREE’S” WEEKLY SHOUT.

Prior to George Le Bilanche’s battle with Mike
Lucie at San Francisco, the well-known pugilist made himself
famoas by knocking out two hackmen. The victims, of the
Marine’s vigorous fist had gone down to Saucelito to attend a
ball and paint the town from the steamboat. landing to the-
Pacific-Yacht. Club. ,/ They had left the carmine trace of their
handiwork along half the réad when they rolled into the tavern
where the Marine is located. La BI had finished his. even-
ing’s work and was muffied up heavily, as. the night was. thick
and foggy, ‘The festive hackmen were, both built on a liberat
plan, and asi they looked down from the height of six feet on the
chunky middie-weight they thonght he offered a fine chance for
amusement. They called up all hands to drink, and when the |
Marine hung back one of them seized him by the collar and
dragged him up to the bar.

“Who. is that sick-looking duck that’s all muffied

up, anyhow 2” asked the pugnacious hackman of a well-

known facetious, journalist who makes Saucelito his head-
quarters.

“Oh, some one-lunged tenderfoot, I suppose,” replied the
journalist, and he added‘n'a whisper, “a mean cuss, too. He's
been around here all night, and no one has seen the color of his
money yet.”

“Dll show him the California style,” growled ‘the hackman,
and, yanking him closer up to the bar, took outa , and,
slapping it on the bar, shouted: ‘Here, blank your _ Bea
man and treat.”

The Marine smiled and said:
and take a drink, every one.”

“Pll go you. Come up, boys,

This did not please the quarrelsome hackman, and.
he snatched up the dollar, and, to emphasize his contempt of
the supposed tourist, aimed a vicious cuff at the pugilist’s jaw.
The blow went wide of the intended mark, for as the indignant
hackman straightened out his arm Le Blanche ducked, and the
next instant the hackman shot head first under a billiard table
and lay there, dead to the world. The quickness with which
the pugilist’s fist had carromed on his companion’s “jaw only
aroused the other hackman’s fury, and he bounded at the
middle-weizht.. Several persons interfered to prevent further
hostilities, but.the hackman would not be denied his prey, and
in the scuffle he clinched with Le Blanche and made ea frantic
effort to throw ‘him to the ee

“Pi just. take a fat out of, sie for luck,” was the
only comment 0 of the:Marine at the attempted ‘maltreatment,
and taking an. _ enthusiastic grip on the infariated hackman,
he threw him with ‘a cross-buttock hold so that his heels scraped
the plaster off the ceiling.

In hig_ flight through the air the hackman caught
an expensive pair of window curtains, and came down with a
crash to the floor encircled in torn lace, chunks of plaster, and
other household decorations. At this juncture the .landlord
arrived on the scéne, and, enraged by the damage to his tavern,
seized the two prostrate revellers by the heels and threw them
into the street, where the cool, refreshing tog - ev restored
them to their senses.

On reviving they got their team and hurriedly.
drove off to. San Rafael to enlist the services of « local gladiator
known as “Liverpool George.” After the gentleman from the
English seaport had listened judicially to the heated application
for his services, he remarked:

“I’m a thinking you fellers "ave been foolin’ wid de oe:
You'd better Ko ‘ome an’ _ your — ends.”

The dilapidated naan looked thoughtfully at

each other and took the boxer’s ee"

The racing season of 1889 is still in its infancy,
and yet it has; through the medium of singular occurrencves on
various tracks, brought prominently into public notice the very
crude state of American turflaw. Turfmen, for several vears,
have been making strenuous efforts to cause the adoption ofa
uniform set of laws and regulations, and by some it has been
claimed that" they have been successful, but. from the natgre of
numerous decisions recently made, it looks as if each ckey
club has its own methods and rules to suit its own convenience.

ay e x es

At Latonia, recently, for instance, where for a
stake race the horses were properly sent to the post and started,
the race being. finished before it was discovered that there were .
no judges in. the stand,.and that no decision could be given in
consequence. It was adjudged a false start, and was run over,
but the judges, to the surprise of all, declared all bets off. and
ordered new betting. The bookmakers and horsemen, who had
the best of the odds and who had made a killing. and who had
the best of it so fur as the real race went,therefore took downonly
what-tney put up. there almost being no betting after the false
start. On what grounds the bets were declared off no one yet
knows. ; i

A case somewhat similar in the running occurred
at Louisville, when a part of the field in a mile dash went on
and finished out under the impression that a falee start was a
80, bat the judges did not interfere with the betting, ‘although
the race after ‘th first run was even a surer thing than’ the one
at Latonia. *

7 zs ses 8
One more ‘péguliar circumstance was Jockey Mo-
Laughiin’s ‘actioh on Terra Cotta at Nashville, when he exer-
cised the privilege, xiven where one stable has two or mure
starters ina ‘race, pulled his horse to let Santalene, the
other starter from. his stable, win. the resalt being that both
were beaten, and ae was ruled off tor pulling, bat re-

instated a say. latér.

Several other ‘peewllar cases, but none that excited
much attention, have also. deeursed, and @ll combined make it _
seem that some speedy toward revising the laws of rac-
ing or the creating « ot,an executive bady" wD Pass ou such in-
stances should be. taken. ee es

The most: satked-of ones tant @ spring hae pro-
duced Is thei faqualtficatioh Of the ity Urbana ‘at Brooklyn. and
the ruling whieh ‘caused the deta to ro-wwigh the horse. Urbana
went to thé post with the weight given her on the programme,
the secretary and. clerk of the scales allowing her jockey to pass
without, _protest, ‘She won, “and then a protest was made that she
should have carriéd five.pounds more than she did, as under the
conditions.of the race, a selling. purse, the filly was penalized for
pee ere: won. ca

Alth the. mistake’ sia ioe weight was shared
in by th tary of the course. the clerk of the scales, the fil-
ly's owner ‘aud the’ programmer, and the weight publicly an-
nounced was: carted, the judges when Urbana was very prop-
erly digg @itted ‘aga’ the race given to the second horse,
also deé sthat™” bets’ went as the horses were placed:
Coan favorite, hud been backed to win under the
conditic wor, under, and then after the backers had
apparengigy
for the

Sbeir bets, the judges’ decision making amends
ss ithe, rae of the one put them lvsers.

we was without a SR Ey as although

ta under thecircumstances have been given to the
disqualified winner, under the English laws, atter which the
American laws are in a large part formed. This action is taken
under the rule whieh permits bets to ge with the horse that
won, although Gaqualified on objecttons made after the race,
about a defect in the engagement.

-| Stakes; Sussex Stakes Goodwood: Great International Breed-

| present the mere apprentice for Jockeyship honors had the odds

-Urbana race have been known be—}-

Another case was the Bon Soir affair at the Ameri-
can Jockey Club. The horse belonged to Lesiie C. Bruce, and
was heavily backed. “Bon Svir won the race easily, but the
jockey, after returning to the Judges stand, did not salute the
judges, which at the time he claimed he did,.and the result was
Bon Soir was disqualified and the thousands that backed the
horse in every city in the country lost their money when they
had fairly won it.

Another case was the decision of the judges in a
recent race at Jerome Park. -Long Knight won the race, but he
came in 80 close to the stand that the Judges supposed that Er-
nest had won the race. Ernest’s number was put up, and the
owner of Long Knight an@ the public lost their money after they
had rightfully won it. The Judges would not reverse their de-
cision, cy ee later they knew <= mistake they liad made.

These are only a few of the. Least that have oc-
curred in which the supporters of the turf have been unfairly
treated by the: racing associations which they support, ‘and I
think that it ta time the many flaws 1a heeautd in ‘racing rules
should be rectified and revised.

In sporting circles the main topio is Kilrain’s battle
with John L. Sullivan. In every city, village and hamlet. the
great fistic battle which is to be decided July 81s the theme of

conversation.
zs ss 8

"Sullivan is an unlucky fellow,” said a well-known
sporting man at the Brower House, in this city, « few nights
ago. “He never wins a toss. At the time he was to fight Paddy’
Ryan for $5,000 and the championship at New Orleans, jn toss-
ing tor the choice of battle ground, he lost the toss, and ‘Paddy
Ryan had the naming ofthe ground. At the time Sullivan was
mrtched ‘to fight Charley. Mitchell, the boxing champion of
England, for 95.000, and Sullivan-and, Mitchell tossed in London
for the choles: of naming the battle ground, Sullivan again lost
the toes. “At the recent meeting | between Kilrain and Sullivan’s
representatives for ‘the cholee at bgyle ground Sullivan again
lost the tues, So be is not hayiypasran of ack. ¥

Kelly | turphy, the chanics boxers, who. have
visited all parts of the United States and created sensation after
sensation by their expertness ‘and scientific boxing displavs,
are again back in this city and have ‘been filling engagement
after engagement. There are no two light-weight boxers in the
world at Kelly arid Murphy’s weight who make the scientific,
entertaining set to that they do. They have shown in England,
Ireland and Scotland, and this was the endorsement they re-
ceived.

Ormonde was one of the best horses in his season
that England could boast of in many years, and yet the cry is
“Donovan !” The latter is owned by the Duke of Portland, is a
bay colt by Galopin, out of Moweraine. The first race he ever
ran he won. Out of 18 races in 1888 in which he ran as a two-
year-old he won 11. He captured the Portland Stakes, worth
£6,000, El Dorado being second in the race. Donovan ran sec-
ond to Chitabeb for the Whitsuntide Plate, worth $23,000. He
also captured the Brockleby. Stakes, the New Stakes, the Bib-
bury Club Home Bred Fall Stakes, the Hurstburn Stakes, the
“July Stakes,” the ‘Ham Stakes, the Brickenham Stakes, the
Hopeful Stakes, the — Park _ and the Dewhurst Piate.

Donovan's engagements are - follows: In addition
to the Doncaster St. Leger. Donovan has liabilities in the ‘Ep-
som Grand Prise, Prince of Wales’ Stakes and Twenty-seventh
New Biennial Stakes at Ascot; Third Renewal of the Eclipse

ers’ Foal Stakes at Kempton Park; Lancashire Plate of 12,000
sovs. at Manchester autumn meeting, and the Royal Stakes at
Newmarket second October meeting. Next year heise nomi-
‘nated for the Rous Memorial at Ascot, and Lancashire: Plate at’
Manchester. i:

The prejudices of many of the old-time owners and

consideration of facts. Weight never hurt a horse, and under
the new schedule experience on the part of a Jockey and the
skill which comes with it, will.no longer be at a “discount. At

all in his tavor as against the older. man, and thus the spur of
ambition to excel,:to become perfect. to ire the mysteries of
“hands,” judgment of pace, and starting Wélt and quickly, with-
out worrying your horse and the official with the flag till past
endurance, was lacking.

The few pounds that have eins added all around
will confer a positive boon, and in two-year-old races particular-
ly will the good effect soon be seen.. There are more two-year-
olds ruinéd by inexperienced boys every year than one has any
idea of. Every racing stable can furnish one: ‘with a long list of
instances, where youngsters with undoubted speed“had their
courage broken, their tempers ruined, thelr mouths spolled or
their joints wrenched by hot-headed light-weight Jockeys. We
do not think the new rule will be a panacea for all this, but it
will go a great way toward diminishing existing evils, and this

after all, is a great step. * 8

Iunderstand the detoraneionill race is now a fix-
ture, and the great battle between the white winged coursers
will be decided in the fail The fullowing is a true table of the
tonnage of a few of the crack English yachts, as given. by_
Lloyd's:

Wetee agg Ton-
mgt nage.

Yacht. ft. in. Tons.
NGS vs vin 6 Gavac se eenkes'e 5000 te 0ndy.ee - 65 170
MEE s 6 on bobs so cacowss oe c'souascss ngs sacs 69 8 o
MN pic husctceees 644s 20 0eaersseaaas 87 0 90
POCPOWINR.. 02. ce cccoseccccscecccsoccvoess 62 8 85
CB acs cnccocncosvdvesse cost becesabas 810 80
OOM ois k os ive cacsecedscencccesecccee 61 "78

It is my opinion that the tonnage: for Custom ‘
House purposes has about &s much reference to the” power ofa
yacht as has the size of her rudder head as ‘to her speed. ” This .
tonnage, theoretically, represents the interior capacity of a
yacht, but in my upinien, practically, it does hots t any-
thing. Thus the English. cup-hunter, Valkyrie,. by the ald of
her long overhangs, tons more than the Galatea, a yacht 17 feet
longer on the water line. The tonnage is based upon the length
on deck from the bow to the rudder post, the extreme beam,
and the depth from top to deck beams. To iliustrate how little
can be learne:i from the tonnage, it is only necessary to com-
pare Yarana and Petroniila. Yarana is four feet longer on the
water line than Petronilla, yet the latter shows 85'tons, while
the Yarana has bat 72 tons. In spite of this, however, the
Yarana was almost uniformally successful in beating the
Petronilla. Bie ea :

I clipped the following from the *‘Umpire,’’ Lon-

don: “If Jack McAuliffe, the light-weight American pugilist,
comes to England he will not be, long wanting ‘work, should ‘he
be inclined to fight, as several of our best men have thrown the
gauntiet down already. Jim Carney has, however, a prior claim,
“and if he wants to be the acknowledged champion of the world .
he'll have to fight Carney for the title. ‘Carney doesn't mean
‘biuf{ He means business, and, as he neatly pugs itin hig chal-
lenge, he'll Aight McAuliffe for elther love or money. | It wen't

liffe.””

The purse of $5,500 offered by the California Ath-
letie Club for Jack Dempsey and George LeBlanche to box tor in
Augnst at San Francisco Is the largest purse ever offered for the
pugilists'to battle for. Ever since Demypeey’and LeBlanche
fought tor $3,500 at Larchmont, when Dempsey won, the Marine
de bene anger fer anpther jo at <iis Senge. 2

Johnny BReagan, who is ‘ieahiinee to fight Young,
Mitchel, the pet ‘of the Pacific Slope, says: “If I can whip
Mitchell I understand that my friends cgn break San Francisco.
I have seen the Pacific Slope champion middie- weight ‘and
understand he has never been beaten. Probably aiter ‘October
29 he wil} not have the game record, - However, he appears to
be a sociable and gentiemanly boxer and 1s a first-class
jst.” Reacan_snd Young Mitchell
tle will probably be one of the best contested that ever occurred.

. REFEREE.

KILRAIN's CoLors.—The new * Colors’’-of. Jake Kilruin are
now ready. Sporting men saloonkeepers and others can obtain

trainers in favor of light weights hag been overcome by « sqaare +

be for the former. *There’s_no love between Carney and McAu-.

pugil.
mat. the bat--

10 -CORRESPONDENTS.

OUR ‘punieiiie G ASING DEPARTMENT.

Owing to the numerous orders that we are daily receiving for
all kinds of Sporting Goods, Portraits, Booka, etc.. of évery de-
scription, we have, for the convenience of the readers of the
POLICK GAZETTE, opened a

SUPPLY AND PURCHASING AGENCY.

The departinent is in charge of a thoroughly competent man,
and any orders that we are favored with will be filled at the
manufacturers’ and publishers’ lowest prices.

Orders filled promptly and must be in every case accompanied
by thecash. Address ni DEPARTMENT, POLICE GAZETTE,
ranklin Square, New York

M. N. M., New York City.—B loses.

T. T, Louisville, Ky.--The bet is a draw.

Cc. F. D., Waterbury, Conn.—Send photo and sketch.

B., Baltimcre.—Yes; Tom King, at Wadhurst, in 1863.

D. W., Chehalis, W. T.—1. No. 2. Both are the same.

T. J. 8., Boston. —Mitehell and Sullivan only fought once.
Gro. K., Jr, P —We t offer such a trophy.

G. M, Bloomingdale.—Send on his photo and we will pub-
lish it.

J. A. K., Alton, 111.—The jack, when turned up, counts for the
dealer.

J. F. D., lowa.—A is wrong; no such feat was ever accom-
plished. i

J.J. G., Jr., Cortland, Neb.—1. Send 35 cents for a baseball
guide. 2 Yes. *s

E. G. G., Port Jervis, N. Y—If you desire your ee pub-
lished send on a forfeit.

STEADY READER, Canton, Dak —1.
onds. 2. Thirty seconds.

W. E. G., Brooklyn, N. Y.—We do not publish challenges un-
less accompanied by a forfeit. ;
W. H. K., Middlesex, N. J.—We do not know any club that
will make the offer you claim.

H. F. L., Port Jervis, N. ¥Y.—John L. Sullivan and Paddy
Ryan fought 9 rounds in 11 minutes.

New. Yorx.—Charley Mitchell was born in Birmingham,
Eng. His parents were Irish descent.

A. B. C., Harlem.—1.-No. 2. The referee’s decision is final
and from his decision there is no appeal.

T. A. J., Holyoke, Mass.—1. Aand B must throw off the tie.
2. C has no claim to first or second prize.

QualL Eater, Woodbridge, N. J.—We do not know of any
such proposition as the one you mention.

C. H., Claysburg, Pa.—George Littlewood, of England, who
holds the ‘Police Gazette” champion belt.

J. M.. Bristol, Iowa. —1. Write to John L. Sullivan; he may
possibly give you the information. 2%. Yes.

T. B., Long Ieland City.—We do not keep a chronological record
of every that started in the English Derby.

’ [RISHMAN, St. Louis.—It represents both Ireland and America,
Kilrain is an American. his parents of Irish descent.

G. H. T.. Ironwood, Mich.—1. Thanks for items. 2. We have
more portraits than we can use; however, send the photo.

M.. Conshohockon.—1. At Iverson and Finney’s, Grand street,
N.Y. 2. Itis fair and can be improved by patience and prac-
tice.

A. 8. M., Quincey.—Mitchell and Sullivan, boxed with gloves
Once anc fought on-e. 2. Mitchell was never knocked out by
Sullivan.

W. J. 8., Schuyler, Neb.—If you desire to compete in a match
such as you mention send on a forfeit. to this office and issue a
challenge.

8. H.. Pottsville, Pa.—According to the rules, if they were
fairly conducted and the referee knew his business, you were en-
titled to the battle.

-M. J., N. ¥. City.—The total number of trotters who have made
number of pacers, 837.

8. G. G., Ogden Rowing Club, Ogden, Utah.—A professiona:
Oarsman is a man who gains his livelihood: by rowing, teaching
or competing for money.

T. 8., Hartford, Conn.—Billy Edwards and Sam Collyer were
matched to fight four times. Edwards defeated Collyer three
times, and received forfeit.

C. B., Gainesville, Texas.—John L. Sullivan weighs (untrained)
215 pounds; Jake Kilrain, 220 pounds. Kilrain is the heaviest
and ie taller than Sullivan.

TomsBo, Newark, N. J.—1. No. 3%. The best performance on
record for throwing the 16 pound hammer ts 182 feet 9 inches,
made by J. 8. Mitchell, at Bergen Point, N. J.,on June 12, 1889.

W. L. 8., Detroit.—1. Peytonia and Fashion ran for $20,000 on
the: Union Course, May 13, 1845. 2. We do not know the lessee.
8. Trustee trotted .four miles in 11:06, on the Union Course, in

M. J.8., Paterson, N. J.—The fastest time for running three

‘miles by an amateur is 15 minutes 11 2-6 seconds, made by P. D.
Skillman, of the New York Athletic Club, at Bergen Point, N
. M. G..EL. Bropkisn.—George Forbes, the turfman, and ‘Geor-
gie” Forbes, the sprinter, nre one and the same person. 2. In
1960 George Forbes beat William Adsetts in a 160-yard race for
$2,000 in 16 seconds. The race was run in 14}, seconds, but the
judges gave it out 15 seconds.

M. G. C., Oneonto, N. ¥.—Thore are numerous routes to New
Orleans. The trip will take from sixty to seventy hours. We
can supply you with Kilrain’s colors. It is a large silk handker-
chief, with a border of shamrocks, a likeness of the champion,
etc., with emblems beautifully colored.

T. J., Albany, N. Y.—1. Jake Kilrain has only fought once ac-
cording to London prize ring rules. That battle was with Jem
Smith, for thePatice Gazette” champion belt, $10,000 and the

championship > of: tha world.” 2 John L. Sullivan has only
* fought'twice acconting to the rules of the London prize ring
"and once for the “championship of America. 3. Paddy Ryan
only fought for the championship once.

* M. J. D.. Latonija; Ky.—The receipts in the John L. Sullivan
and Tug Wilson matéh at Madison Square Garden were $15,000.
The gate money was divided by giving each man 50 per cent. of
the net receipts. Arthur Chambers was Tug Wilson’s manager,
and Billy Madden John L. Sullivan’s manager. The receipts
were dividéd into four shares, amounting to over $3,600 each
after expenses were deducted.

J. W. Melvilio, N. J.—Jake Kilrain fought Jem Smith Dec. 19,
1887, tor $10,000, the *‘Police Gazette” champion belt and the
‘championship of the world. The battle ended in a draw owing
to darkness ‘coming on, and Kilrain retained the emblem which
represents the title of champion of the world. Should Sullivan
deésat Jake Kilrain he will hold the *Police Gazette” champion
belt and the championship of the world until he is Zefeated or
‘ignores a bona fide challenge to¢ d for the title and the
‘belt.

F. H. McC., Banger, Mich.—Please state in your next issue
-Richard K. Fox’s age, birthplace and when he started business in
: New York.: Richard K. Fox was‘born in Belfast, Jreland, in the
year 1846, of commingled Scotch and Irish parentage. He
: Joined the staff of the Belfast News Letter, the richest and mest
* powerful newspaper in Ireland, remaining with the News Letter
‘for ten years, rising to the second place in its counting-room
i service. He arrived in New York in September, 1874. Twenty-
‘four hours after his landing he found profitable employment
‘with the Commerctal Times, of New York, a situation he left to

connect himself with the PoLice GAZETTE.

M. J. 8., N.‘¥. City.—The prizes for which race horses will
{ stretch their necks and display their speed during 1889 are: Fu-
‘turity, Coney -Jsland, $60,000, Junior Champion, Monmouth,
+ $25,000; Great American, Westchester, $20,000, Eclipse, West-
, chester, $20,000; Great Eastern, Coney Island, $8,000; The Titan,
‘ Jerome Park, $8,000;, Carteret, Monmouth, $8,000; amboy, Mon-

Nine and hci sec-

r Sapling, Monmouth, 36.000; July, Monmouth, $6,000; Hopeful,
Monmouth, $6,900, Angust, Monmouth, $6.000; Criterion, Mon.
mouth, $6,000; Kenwood, Chicage, $5,000; Hyde Park, Chicago
$5,000, and twenty-five others of $5,006 each.

RalLRoaD, Jersey City.—1. No. % The Flying Dutchman,
Louis, better known as Lou Dempson, has perhaps the fastest

schedule time is concerned. Lou was formeriy.kn as the |
“Flying Dutchman,” but now basks under th¢ od but’

‘fictitious cognomen, “White Wings.” Me

train between Evanston and Ogden, a-
miles, and makes the trip in the remarikpble time o
five minutes, or at the rate of one mile d minute.
display record,’ but day in
that dare devil rate of speed.
T. J. C., Paterson, N. J,—August Belmont wad
winner at the Brooklyn Jockey Club ing Four «
year-okis won between them $31,000. '
stake alone was worth $17,900,. The Dwyer B
The total amount won was $171,667: This
mont’s St Carlo, $17,900; Padishah,
Dwyer Bros.’ Inspector B., 96.500; Hanover,
Longstreet, $1,500; Onward, $1,00°°: Kenwood, 63863 apenas

. Wm. Lakeland’s Exile. $7,000; Ernest. $1,100; LDracle,
Tea Tray, $965; Raymond G., $860; Tattler, “Totat, (ines. !

geen

ata” Mee ony "ho makes ate

Mucilage, $1,020; Britannic, $1,000; Holiday, tosis path 4

W. C. Daly’s Bronzomarte, $2,505; ‘Urban 5; Searle 2,

SPORTING: NOTES. as

George Mulholland, thie eu clever. saan e
teaching the manly art at No. 12 Maani® street,
where he has already a large class. Malholiag
fellow, though he has been unfortunate

Kelliher, the Quincy middie. weight.
formed py the Southern California ‘Ai
that it had Lung up a purse_of $1,600 Tor a battle
Joe Ellingsworth, $1,000 to go to the winner and ac
for expenses, The idea of the club, as stated, ts to q

wiuner of the contest against the winner of the map
Blanche fight. Kelliher said he would not accept such ©
arly puree.

Billy Murphy, the champion foather weight. of. :
Austraiia, has arrived at San Francisco. Murphy is 80 Peupe- .
rior to other Australians @ his class that he has for some time
past been forced to fight light and even middie-weights, or go
without a battle. Young Mitchell fonght him in Australia a.
few years ago, and the Pacific Slope champton says that he is
one of the best fighters he has ever met. His build and actions
are similar to those of Ike Weir. He will be matched against
the winner of the Warren-Griffin battle. ’

Recently, at Seattle, the single-scull regatta at-.
tracted a larze crowd. Among the contestants for the purse of .
$1,000 were Wm. O’ConYur, the champion and holder of the
“Police Gasette” champion challenge cup, Peterson, Hamm and,
Lee. O'Connor led off, closely. followed by . Peterson, who
crowded the champion of America pretty hard up to the turning
buoy, when he tired, giving place to Hamm, but the Canadian
still maintained the lead and finally won easily, Hamm second,
Pecerson third and Lee fourth. ‘

Cc. W. Budd, the champion wing shot of America,
writes that he killed 98 birds out of a 100 at 20 yurds rise, ground
traps, at Grand Crossing, on June 10, The shoot was for the
American Field Cup and $250 a side. . Budd won the cup from
J. BR. Stice, of Jacksonville, only a short time ago, and was
promptly challenged by Kilenz, Budd, ‘missed first on sthe
seventh bird, a strong one, which got up snd out of the. way as
rapidly as the shot itself. The champion then madet the re
markable straight score of 71 birds. The 79th was the only .
other bird he missed.. His score stood 98 against 94 out of 100
birds, Kleins missing only 6 out of the'100.

ree ia

Arthur Upham, the champion middle-we t of
Connecticut, who journeyed from Norwich to box at: they lebne-
town boxing benefit, called at the POLIck GAZETYy | and e

left the following reply to Jaies Quigley’s 0a ht
New Yorx,:

challenge:
pre
Srortine Epitor—In reply to the offer of Ja
meet me in a 24-foot ring for $600 « side, Iwill’ arranges |

to box Quizley at catch weights, Queensberry ruleny no" ih
the number of rounds, for $600 a side, or my
‘within 990%

$600 to Quigiey’s $500; the contest to be decides
of Norwich in four or six weeks from . signing. ‘articles...

suits Quigley I will meet him any. ine he may ran sien
articles. ARTHUR. UPHARy;

Diablo did not win the Belmont Stakes at the Amer-
ican Jockey'Club on June’ 18, as'will be seen by the eres
summary:

“Twenty-third running. of: the Seienaen: & sweepstakes for
three-year olds at $100 each, half. fortelt, $20 1f declared by July
1, 1888. with $2,000 added, of which $500’to the egeond, the third
to receive $200 out of the stakes; winflers in:1889 of $2,000 to
carry 8 pounds; of two such races or one of $3,600. 7 pounds; of
two races ‘of $3,500, 10 pounds extra; maidens allowed 7 pounds;
closed Feb. 6, 1888, with 76 subscribers, of which 3 declared; mile
and a half.

A.J. Cassatt’sb c Eric, by Duke of Magenie—toe. Second
Hand, 118 pounds... ........ cee ecco ees W. Hayward

Castle Stables’ b c Diablo, by Eolus—Grace Darling. 125
WN 5d e cos 5s basse bad Gh > pageae ab eaEK eee Hamilton 2

A. Belmont’s b g Zephyrus, by Kingtisher—Favonia, 118 e
WON: kick co ic fe 00 babes vcdeesgucaus becers eee deacess Conviass a8:

~ gee
The Pastime Athiotic Club : held. their: ‘athlefic
games in this city on June. The feature of the day,was the
-12-pound hainmer throw exhibition by J. 8. ‘Mitchell, of the Gne-
lic A. C., in which be beat the record by.6 feet;11 inches,» M teh-
ell threw the hammer 142 feet 1044 Inches on the first trial and
in the second attempt sent it 3 feet 8 Inches further. _ The win- >
ners and events were:
16 yards dash was won by W. M. Craft, A.-Q. C., in 9 seconds.
One-mile walk, won by W. F. Pollman, P, A. o 6 en ca is
7 minutes 7 seconds. i
220 yards dash, won by E. W. Hepper, N. J. He c., in “A aces.
onds.
880 yards run, won by Johanson, In 2 minutes 6 1-6 seconds. ,
Novice 600° yards run, wun by Harry Morrell, in: 1 roinute 34,
4-5 seconds.
Two-mile run (43 entries), won by P. D. Skillman, N..¥.-A. Cnr’
scratch, in 10 minutes 8 seconds. W. D. Day, N. J. A. C., scratch,
was second, and R. Wagner, St. George A. ©:, $60 yards, third.
In an exhibition, J. 8. Mitchell threw Re 66-pound weights28
feet 834 inches,

The Phillips, Exeter, and Andover athletes heldjan_
athletic meeting at Exeter on June 11, Results:

One-mile bicycle race—First beat won, by Burr of Andover;. .+ ‘
time, 3.19%. Second heat won by Hallock of Andover; uae
3.22%, both beating records in each sehool. ye
One hundred yards dash—Won by Baker of. Rxotor;. tapas.
seconds.

Running high Jump-—-Won by Heywood of Exeter; height, | 5
feet 5% inches, beating records of both schools. re:

Pole vault—Won by Cartwright of Andover; height, 8. foot 11. Mi
inches, beating Andover’s best record. but not Exetér's. -

One-miie run—Won by Curtis of Andover; time, 4 minutes se.
seconds, beating records of both schools, ¥

Putting the shot—Won by Turner, of Andover; distarice 38, a
feet 44% inches, beating Exeter’s record, but not Andover’s..

One hundred and twenty yard hurdle race—Won by.Graves,
of Andover; time, 19 2-5 seconds, beating records ot both,

Running broad Jamp—Won by Biogas, of Exeter, distavee 20
feet 4 inches, beating records of both schools.

One-mile bicycle race—Won by Hallock, of Andover; time, 8
minutes 18 seconds,

“Two hundred and tWenty yard dash— Won by Foss, of Andover;

time. 25 seconds, beating Andover's record, but not Exeter's,
Referee, G. 8. Mandell, judges, G. D. Yettee, A. T. Dudley.
sirlniiedaaciadiiioas ies
KILRAtN’S COLORS.—The new * Ccfors > of: JAke*ERfali® are
now ready. Sporting men, saloonkeepers and others can obtain

them -by forwarding $3.50 to this office. Ricuarp K. Fox, Frank-
lip New York.

standing record of any engineer on the Union Pacific, as far as

them by forwarding $3.50 to tifis office. Ricuarp K. Fox, Frank-
lin Square, New York.

THE NATIONAL ~ ‘POLICE GAZETTES” NEW YORK.

BAVAGE FIGHT WITH TRAMPS. TERRIBLE DUEL WITH KNIVES.

THE ELIZABETH POLICE AND A GANG OF TRAMPS HAVE A SCRIMMAGE NEAR TWO BROTHERS-IN-LAW OF OHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE, CARVE EACH .OTHER
GREENBROOK, NEW JERSEY. - OVER A BUSINESS TRANSACTION.

es =a se
LE isos. oe HAV] iy nnn iL

i Wi

iin {|
TANS

ome

| eesti iil |
uli lal hill UA
HE HAS SHOT HIS LAST SHOT.
A NOTORIOUS BURGLAR WHO FATALLY SHOT A TOPEKA, KANSAS, CITIZEN, IS TAKEN FROM THE JAIL AND HANGED.

by ne

mes a

iil il i
i A I

‘\p we

HE KILLED HIS CHILD. } ~~ '& CAGE OP JERSEY LIGHTNING.

MICHARL CRONIN OF CINCINNATI THREW A CUP AT HIS WIF's WAI0H MISSED HER A THUNDERBOLT STRIKES HERMAN MATTIA, OF NEWARE, NRW senazy, AxD
BUT HIT THE BABY, CAUSING ITs DEATH. RILLS THR POOR MAN INCTANTLY,

A CHAMPION ON THE RUNNERS. =

LOUIS H. GEORGE, OF NIAGARA FALLS, NEW YORK, WHO CAN BEAT A STREAK OF
LIGHTNING OVER THE FLOOR. ~ | i

WILLING TO WRESTLE ANYBODY. a os !

JAMES H. FALKNER, OF MANCHESTER, ENGLAND, NOW IN THIS CITY, WHO HAS
DOWNED ALT THE BIG ’UNS.

HANDSOME BILLY BURNETT, BRAWNY BILLY McMILLAN,

THE CHAMPION WELTER-—VYEIGHT, WHO HAS A HABIT OF TAKING OARE OF HIM-

- WELL-KNOWN SPORTING MAN OF WASHINGTON, D. C., AND PATRON OF MEN
SELF WHEREVEK HE GOES.

OF BRAWN AND MUSCLE.

sotahnimeners i's ee

ON Ae 9 ON eae em

-SERGT. MICHAEL McCARTHY.

K Police Officer of Whom Brooklyn,
N. Y., May Well be Proud.

Sergeant Michael McCarthy, of the Second Precinct,
Brooklyn, i8 a born policeman, and has friends by the

hundreds on the other side of the river. The genial
sergeant, who i8 in direct line fora captaincy, was ap-
pointod patrolman in 1871, and in 1875 a roundsman.
He is one of the brAvextand most efficient officers on
the police force. Me has rescued a number of persons
from drowning and from burning buildings at the
risk of hisown life, and in February, 188%, duringa
fire that occurred at No. 2 McKinney street, Brooklyn,
he rescued atamily consisting of the father, mother
and five children. For his services rendered on this
occasion and others he was highly complimented by
Superintendent Campbell and ex-Commissioner Part-
ridge, allof which is duly recorded in the books of
the department. The sergeant is as moder’ as he is
brave and efficient, and enjoys equally the confidence
of his superiors and associates. Sergeant McCarthy
isa veteran of the Fourteenth Regiment, N. G.8.N. Y.,
‘otherwise known as the ‘Red Devils,” is a member of
Odell Post. G. A. R., and of the Society of the Army of
the Potomac, and president of the Officers’ Association
of the Brooklyn Police Department. In addition to

this he is a good fellow.

F BRAWNY ‘BILLY M’MILLAN.

|W ITH “PonrTratt.|

Billy McMillan, of Washington, D. C.,
weight champion pugilist of America.
‘born in Scotland on March 22, 1867. His parents were
Irish. He stands 5 fect Tinchesin height and weighs,
‘in condition, 145 pounds. His first battle in the prize
‘ring was in May, 1883, at London, Eng., when he de-
‘feated George Sudborn in 11 rounds, 24 minutes, ac-
cording to London prize rng rules. He then beat Billy
Wiley, of London, in tour, rounds, lasting 13 minutes.
‘He beat Tim Keenan in fifteen rounds, London prize
ring ru‘s8, for’ £50 and the championship of Lanca-
‘shire; beat Al Calvert, of Liverpool, with gloves, in
‘three rounds; knocked out Timothy Cline, of Birming-
‘ham, in nine rounds; worsted Fred Downs, of Liver-
pool, in seven rounds; defeated Bill Stewart 1n six
rounds,near Glasgow, for £50 and the championship

isthe welter-
McMillan was

of Scotland; whipped Joe Kelly tor £50, and then came

to this country, landing in Boston on Oct. 13, 1888. and
foughta draw with “Punch” Vaughn. McMillan was
then matched against Paddy Duffy at Boston, but the
latter backed out. These are but a few of his victo-
ries. Heis opento fizht any 149-pound man in Amer-
ica, Paddy Duffy preferred, for $1.000 a @ide.

WILLING TO WRESTLE ANYBODY.

{Wira PorTRAIT.]

Jas. H. Falkner was born in Manchester, Eng.. in the
year of 1857, stands 5 feet 4 inches high and weighs, in
condition, 135 pounds. He commenced wrestling when
sixteen years of age, and when twenty-one
years of age won the light-weight champion-
ship of England from Jack Eckersly at Farnsworgh
recreation grounds, near Bolton, the match lasting
two days. Since his arrival in America he has proved
himself to be atertor amongst the leading wrestlers
of this country. Mr. Falkner arrived in New York
Dec. 16, 1884, since which time he has downed Tom
Caunon, Sam Barry, Jack Hart, William Coupe, Ben
Jones, Owney McCarty, Andre Christol and Edward
Bibby, and has wrestled a draw with the famous Acton.
He is open to all comers.

A MANIAC’S DEED.

‘(SUBJECT OF ¥ ILLUSTRATION. ]

“A farmer named Lucien Freeman, aged thirty years,
who lived with his mother at Meriden, N. H., became
temporarily insane one night recently, and while in
that condition took an ax and went to a room occupied
by a friend named John Morgan. Seeing Morgan
asleep, he struck him two blows with the ax on the
head, killing him instantly. He then went to his moth-
er’s room and, overpowering her, killed her in a like
manner. After this he walked two miles, in almost a
nude condition, to the house of Orrville Eaton, and,
arousing Mr. Eaton, told him what he had done. The
sheriff was sent for, and he put Freeman under arrest.
Freeman is subject to hereditary insane spells, and
Morgan had slept in the house to look after him.

SHOT THE BURGLAR.

[ScBJEcT OF ILLUSTRATION. ]

"A ‘wanda entered the store of Mr. Edward Kimball.
of Saccarappa, Me.. one night recently, but in so doing
he awoke- Kimball, who sleeps inthe store. Kimball
waited until the intruder got inside and then shot at
him. He nrissed the burglar, who jumped through a
window. Kimball fired another shot, which hit the
marander in one of his hips, and brought him down.
He gave the name of James White, and is badly in-
jured. Kimball had his place robbed several weeks
ago,

THE NATIONAL POLICE

GAZETTE: NEw YORK

DRAGGED TO DEATH BY MASKED MEN.

|SuBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.,

Albert Martin, a mulatto, assaulted Mra. John Gillis
about four miles outside of Port Iuron, Mich., two
weeks avo. He was caught and locked up. Ever since
he committed the crime there was much talk of lynch-

ing, but the threats were made so loud that it was |

thought the rage of the people would easily cool, and
so the police did not pay much attention to the threats.
A crowd of masked men approached the jail early one
morning recently, bound and gagged ‘lurnkey La-
rocke, battered down the jail door, grabbed Martin,
put a rope around his neck and dragged hii out of the
jail, down the stairs, and-so along the street. where
they hanged him and then riddled his body with bul-
lets until he was dead.

AN EXPLOSION IN A SQUIB FACTORY.

[Subs OF ILLUSTRATION. |

Shortly after 12 o’clock on the afternoon of June 13 a
squib factory located at St. Clair, three miles north of
Pottaville, Pa., was totally wrecked by an explosion of
several kegs of powder kept in the storage house. The
building took fire after the explosion, and Mamie Mail,
aged about 19 years, was burned todeath. Her charred
reinains were found in the debria after the fire wua ex-
tinguished. The manager of the factory, Harry Hayes,
escaped fronf the building after the explosion, bus he
is 80 badly burned that he cannot recover. Heisa
married man, with two children. The factory em-
ployed about fifty girls, who had gone home for din-
ner when the terrible explosion took place. Tne cause
of the explosion is a mystery.

SAVAGE FIGHT WITH TRAMPS.

[SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION. |

For some time past a gang of tramps have been raid-
ing on the farmers of Greenbrook, N. J. A few days
ago a detachment of the Elizabeth police surrounded
a sand-house at the above-named place and surprised
the gang asleep. A terrible fizht ensued, which ended
in the capture of Pete Murray and the ringleader of
the gang, named Robert Barry. Barry fought savagely
and had all his clothes torn from his body. He had to
be knocked senseless before they conld master him.
The rest of the gang escaped to the woods near by.

PROPRIETARY ARTICLES.

TARRANT’S EXTRACT OF
CUBEBS and COPALBA
Is an old, tried remedy for
gonorrhea. gleet and all dis-
eases of the urinary organs.
Its neat, portable form, free-
dom from taste and speedy
action (it a. cures in
three or four days and always
in less time than any other
erereyn) make ‘ Tarrant’s
xtract” the most desirable
remedy ever manufactured.
To prevent fraud, see that
each package has a red strip
across the face of label, wit
the Ge of TARRANT &
CcO., pon it. Price,
$1.00. Sold by al drugyists.

Big @ hasgiven univer-
sal satisfaction in the
cure of Gonorrhea and
Gleet. I prescribe itand
feel safe in recoynmend-
ing it to al sufferers.
A. J. STONER, M.D.,
Decatur, (tl.
Sold by _———

Cures Gieet, Gonorrhea «nd
Urine rinary saehiaes in 48 hours.
All Druggists, or P. O. Box
2081, New York. Post Freeg 1.00

fs A DISEASE,

a ean be Cured,

administer-

Pe NKEI en siden Specie. t can be giv-

a without the k eomiedee tient, if s
by placing itin coffee, tea or variates of food: ;; Cures

Send f f ci iC
SI Baeio Geta or free circulars. GOLDEN

suffering from Lost Man-
ag Wouthful Er.
oo © per r

is, pus all Private

‘Pieces aeNore rend ook and learn how to cure
‘Book Re be B ree certo
caf Riifve TANSY PILLS,

Ty original aad on! Pate one sr
Worrented setstucuny DR Re Pee: ad Se i. Y i

KK ansy, and all Urinar

Troubles quicklv
safely cured by Doctita Sandalwood, in seven
days: avoid imitations: buy Docuta, it is genuine. Full
directions. Price, $1.50: half boxes, 7% ec. Ail druzyists

SPECIAL NOTICES.

ADVERTISERS!

LOOK OUT FOR

“POLICE GAZETTE”

The first will contain the full account of the ficht
between Jake Kilrain and John L. Sullivan, and with
the latter will be presented a double-page supplement,
the subject of which will be a photograph of the fight,
taken at tha scene of battle by our special artist. © The
sale of both these issues will be very large.

Rates, $1 per line per insertion.

Orders for No. 618 must be in by Saturday, July 6,
and orders for No, 619 must be in by Monday, July 15.

Address all communications to

RICHARD K. FOX, Publisher,

Franklin Square, New York.

M neous “diac harges. eruptions of all- kinds apeedily
removed by the N. E. Medical Institute’s Nervous
Debility Pills, $1 per box, 6 for $3. Sent postpaid,

PHOTOGRAPHS.

PUBLICATIONS.

NEW CABINET

PHOTOGRAPHS

PRICE, ONLY TEN CENTS EACH.’ ©

Sent to any address on receipt of price.

Jake Kilrain,
Charley Mitchell,
Pat Killen,

Mike Conley,

Jove McAuliffe,
Jen Sinith,
Yankee Sullivan,
Billy Edwards,
Arthur Chambers, *
Joe Goss,

Jem Carney,
Tow Sayers,

Joe Wormald,
Johnny Reagan,
dohnny Clark,
Tommy Warren,
Qeo. Godfrey,
Patsey Cardiff,
Mike Donovan,
Johan L, Sullivan,

Steve Taytor,
Alf. Greenfield,
Harry Gilinore,
Mike Cushing,
Patsy “allon,

Mary Anderson,
Margaret Mather.
Mrs. J. B. Potter,
Fanny Davenport,
Lydia Thompson,
Magzgtle Cline,
Sadie Martinot,
ara Bernhardt,
delina Patti,
Lilian Russell.
Madame Gerster,
Geraldine Ulmer,
Modjeska,
Minna Guile,
Kate Claxton,
Letty Lind,
Ida Siddons,
Sylvia Grey,
Amy Williams,
Maud Stuart,
Clara Thropp,
Elsie Cameron,
Auna Colwell,
Leslie Chester, >
Roe®in Vokes,
Hilda Thomas,
Alice. Townsend,
Erama Carson,
Jane Hading,
Mabel Hudson,
Ida Yearur:ce,
Carrie Tutein,
Lizzie Fletcher,
Miss Miller,

Annie Sutherland,
Ruth Sgetson,

Rdwin Booth,
Rei} Burgess,

Lawrence Barrett,

R. B. Mantell,

Kittle Brown,
Lottie Stanley,
Elsie Von Blumen,

PUGILISTS.
Prot. Donaldson, Dooney Harris,
Bob Farrel, Jim Fell,
Geo. Fulljames, Jake Hyams,
Pete Muiry, ‘ Billy Myers,
Florry Barnett, Hattie Stewart,
Bob Turnbull, Jack Ashton,
te Murray, Jem Mace,
¢ Langham, Bob Brettle,

Jimmy Kelly. Peter Jackson,
Mervine Thompson, Billy Dacey.
Tommy Chandler, Jerry Murphy,
Billy McLean, Booke,
Dom. McCaffrey, Dick Holly wood,
Tom Hyer, Abe Hicken,
Tom ni. Jack Filés,
John Morriesey, Charley Norton,
John C. Heenan, Jie Pendergast,
Joe Coburn, John J. Scholes,
Paddy Ryan, . Tom King,
Tom Tom Paddock,
Jack Haviin, Sparrow Golden,
Ike Weir, Tommy Danforth,
Juck Dempsey, Frank Whi
Jem Ward, Joe Eiiingowerth,
Jack Burke, Jack McAuliffe,
dack Fogarty, Joe Lannon,
eek Murphy. Young Mitchell.

Jobnpy Murphy, Ted Pritchard.

AC®BESSES.

Pauline Mali. Irene Vetona,
Payline fs a hen Isabelle Urquhart,
Maggie Mitchell, Maggie Arlington,
Lotta, Nellie Bowen, -
Janisch, n

BOLIVAR HORNET.

Thespiciest book published: 160 pagea, with 12 full
plate illustrations. Price, 50c.. securely sealed.

ADVENTURES

Or AN ARKANSAW Doctor with his patientsa—a rere
book—168 pages of fancy rencling, choice tid bits apd
with aclese pace ep for 50c.; 3 books,‘all different,

ect samp es of other goods, sent secure for $1.

ALSO, MARRIAGE LOOKING GLASS,

25 cts. The veritable old ‘‘Joe Miller” Jest Book, not the
revised edition; fitted for familiar. not family readiny.
ABs ey pee meer of old, racy English, a pearie
called easpade. Price, $1. p.p. w lil. Mar-
riage Gu de and ries. 50 cts.; the 3 phd one time,
well sealed, $1.25. i entire lot, with‘ full line, of

similar — at one — 3 *
RELaY & Box 5286, Boston, ties.

FANCY PICTURES

In various von natural as life. Sold in sets;or
25 for $1. tee them; Re renged rich and
fancy. Sent, wi with sean Bien.ot rich reading, some trahs-
parent cards and Fone ite poetry, on receipt of $1,
safely and secure from observation.

RELAY LePortTtiIne Co., Box 5288, Boston, Masa.

THE, SECRET HELPER,

60c.; A Lover by Prony. $1. Phantom bride, $1. One
zocds Yor both son t aon and on Piset se ot 2,
reg oe wi P .

LMPORTING Co., BOX 5288, Boston, Mass.

in -looking,

WANTED. Jam 25 ig “
rm haves turs-up none.
my wedding day I will tive By
oat ser Pas wo ane aaill livin, her, 1 wit! Cand him.
real estate, etc Ten wer)

cents
= os hove advertisement (complete) avd s similar,
at oe CUMAX PUBLISHING CO.,5c-0, CHICAGO.

he GENTLENEN desiring CORRESPONDENTS fir AMUSEMENT of
wa’ will Gud thé above paper ‘‘jua what they want.’ —Editor,

-A New Medical Treatise

On Diseases of Men, Errors of Youth, Weakness, Lost
Manhood, Blood Puison, Kidney Diseases, and other
useful information. Every man should read it. Sent
free—sealed. Address Dr. RINDLE. 171 W. 12th st., N.Y.

Uy Cpl “yoyys

Minnie Palmer,
Fay Templeton,
Myra Goodwin, Cora

Mrs. J. W. Florence, Rose ‘Coghlan,
Clara Lonise Kellogg, ~ gg

Clara Morris, ra. Langtry,
Eliza J. Weatnerbee,
Lillian Olcott,

Rose Newham. da Rvhan.
Marie Halton, rion A. Erle,
Mabel Millette, Ullie May Hali,
Violet Cameron, nes Miller,
Florence Ashbrooke, Bisie Gerome,
Bella-Ray mond, lorence Miller,
Amy Roche, ~ Minnie Jeoffreys,
€ornalba, Lilly Pos

Annie Summerville, Catherine Lewis,
Mand. Granger, wise Lester,

Knute Forsythe, Jennie Winston,
Fanny Rice, Louise Montague,
Aunie Pixley, Liles. Blow,
Fs — Godfrey, Amy Gordon,
Maude Wentworth,
pe Walters, Carrie Whison.
= we — Jauisa Dinon,
Daisy Murdock,
ES Weatheraby, Florence Chester,
lia haha Frankie Kemble,
vey,
foe + ey Vernona Ja
Lilly Elton, Amelia Glover,
Jennie Lee, Clara Terry.
Thedora DeGilbert,
ACTORS.
Johnny Wild Constant Coquelin,
Richard Mansfield, Francis Wile n,
‘5.%. Bmmet, ~ Osmond Tearie,:
David Belasco, Joe Jefferson,
eatin, Menu StTymons
Gus au rrymore,
N. 8. Wood, Herbert Kelcey,
. Tony Pastor Henry Irving,
Lester Wallack,
LADY BICYCLISTS.
Lulu Hart. Josie Woods,
Helen Baldwin, Hattie Lewis,
May Allen, Lillie Williams,

Jessie Onkes.

Mickey Welch,
Buck Ewing,
Johnny Ward,

Gil Hattield,

Ed Crane.

Elmer Foster,
Frank J. Fennelly,
John K,. Tener,
Jas. W. Holliday,
Thos. Daly,

Pete Conway,

Kid Baldwin.

Geo. Van Haltren,
James ‘yan,

Jim Hart,

A. C. Anson,

Matsada Sorakichi,
Wm. Muldoon,
Sebastian Miller,
Evan Lewis,

Juve McPherson,
Capt. Daly,

Fred Piaisted,
William Beach,
Wallace Ross,
William O'Connor.

George Mason,
Pat Fitzgerald,
Frank Hart,
Dan Herty,
Robt. Vint,
Geo, Littlewood,

Jacob Schaefer,
Wm. Sexton,

BALL PLAYERS.

Jim Mutrie, Roger Connor,
C. Comiskey, Ariie Latham,
Jack Chapman, Dave Orr,

Bob Ferguson, Mickey Hughes,
Mike Tiernan, Curt Welch,

a = ee Tom Esterbrook,

wm Bill Brown,

Lidell Titcomb,

my wae
Jim O’Rourk

Gus Schmelts.

Pat M
Arthur oT

Geo. Gore.
John G. Reilly,
Elmer Smith,

John 8. Corkhill,
John McPhee,

Gnrla Ve Von der Ahe,
Sam Thompson, at
Tom ‘Burns, Jim Galvin,

Gus Krock, Wheeler C. Wikof,
Ed Hanlon, Jas. A. Donanus,
Jack Lynch, ge Clark,

Ed Morris, W. L Kuehne.

WRESTLERS.

Prof. Baner, Donald Dinnie,
Mike Donahue, Jack Carkeek,

Edwin Bibby, Clarence Whistler

Tom Cannon, Black Sam,
Dunean C. Joe Acton,

H. W. Dufur, Wm. Johnston.

OARSMEN.

Chas. E. Courtney, Ed Hanian,

Josh Ward, George

H. E. Searle, Albert Hamm,* .
PEDESTRIANS.

Sam Day, Dan 0”

Wm. Cummings, John Hughes:
Chas. Harriman, Geo. Noremac,

George Cartwright, Harry Vaughn,

Chariley-Rewell, Malcolm’W. Ford,

Lon Myers, _ Gus Guerrero,
BILLIARDISTS.

Geo. Slosson, Joe Dion.

M. Vigneaux,

CABINET PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE FAMOUS

FIGHTING DOGS,

BOOK OF

TURE.
—- GUIDE. ere seardtad Mar.

tions of sexes. Ss) ®) ere bill.

hy, What, and reja-
Box 345. Jersey City, N- J.

rfezione roche pe oy caterers and “

velo:
iner..24 Tren

mont Row. Boston.

(Copy righted)

KEY-HOLE f..rp°

H. J.WEHMAN,

Catalogue free.

THE DOOR and 104
ular Sons for 10c.
urk Row, New York.

Gpant a When you want

fine goods (Books, Photos,

etc.)our sealed Illustrated Sg my? tells where and

how to get them (2c. stamp). Lock

Bee

fs d 2c. stamp for catalogue.
ioe a Deion N. Y. Established 1852.

Books that YOU Should Read.

PROFUSELY. ILLUSTRATED. 4
PRICE, 25 CENTS EACH. a
SENSATIONAL BOOKS.

GLIm™psEs OF GOTHAM; or, New
a by Daylight and after

MAN TRapPs OF.NEW YorK. A
Full Expose @ the Metropoll-
tan Swindler.

New YORK BY DAY AND NIGHT.
A Continuation of Glimpses
of Gotham.

New YOrK Tomas; its-Secrets,
Romances, Crimes and Mys-
terles,

MYSTERIKS or New York Un-

ReD RuIN - the Romance. of
Anarchy in America.

BILLY LEROY, THE. COLORADO
Banpit. The King of Amer-
ican Highwaymen.

MYSTKRIKS OF MORMONISM. < A
Full Expose of its Hidden
Crimes.

LIVES OF. THE POISONERS. The
most Fascinating Book of the

Year. :
MABILLE UNMASKED: or. The
Wickedest Place inthe World

VEILED. Qne of the most | FOLLY’s QUEENS; -or, Women
exciting books.published. (hose Laves Ruled the World
PaRIS BY GASLIGHT. The Gay | FOOTLIGHT F/VORITKS. Port-

Life of the Gayest City in
the World.

Paris INSIDE OvuT; or, Joe Potts
on the Louse. A vivid story
m Panisian life.

SECRETS OF THE STAG; or, The
Mysteries of the Play-Houee
Unveiled.

GRKAT ARTISTS OF THE AMERI-
CAN STAGE. Portraits of the
Actors and
America.

Conky ISLAND FROLICs. How
New York’s Gay Girls and
rap. ae re Sates Themselves

Actresses of

raits of the Leading Ameri-
can and European Actresses.

Suicipk’s CRANKS: or, The
Curiosities of Self-Murder.
Showing *'.¢ origin of suicide

JAMES BROTHERS, THE CELE-
BRATED OUTLAW BROTHERS.
Their Lives and Adventures.

Paris UNVEILED. Expose of
Vice and Crime in the Gay
French Capital.

Historic Crimrks. A Graphic
History of Startling and Mys-
terious Crimes.

HISTORY OF THE WHITECHAPEL
MURDERS.

SPORTING BOOKS.

THE AMERICAN ATHLETK. A
Treatise on the Principles and
Rules of Traininy.

CHAMPIONS OF THE AMERICAN
Prizk RING. Complete Hise
tory and Portraits ofall the
American ge weights

Life or TuG WILSON, Cham-

ficn Pugili England.
LICK GAZ 2’ STANDARD
K OF RULKS. Revised
and corrected.

LIFE OF JOHN L.. SULLIVAN, Ex-
Champion of America.

LIFE OF JAKE KILRAIN. Cham-
pion Pugilist of the World.
“POLICE GAZETTE” CARD PLAY-
ER: All desired intormation

on the subject.

THE COCKER’S GUIDE. Con-
tains everything avout Game
Fowls.

THE DoG Pit. How to Select
and Train Fighting Dogs.

Ang of the pheve Iiustrated Books sent by mail on
receip

tof 25 cents.

MISCELLANEOUS SPORTING pooks.

The American Hoyle

Poker Player
Hand Book of Whist.....

ee eee res

Hand Book ot Cribbage..........
Progressive Poker..............-
Pocket Hoyle
a ier Biate Player.
ranghts tor nners.....
Manual of Chess.......
American Card 7 i gal
How Gamblers Win

Games of Patience. ......... cc ccccccccsceeececeertccee ts,

Pee ey Wiad cic ivicwsesee cell Gb

RARSSS

cod

Jumbo, Crib, Bobtail. Major, Sleepy Frank.
Bob, Seldom Snow Ball, Slop House. Tombow.
MISCELLANEOUS.

Rev. H. W. Beecher, Inspector Williams, — Lawlor,

Rev. DeW. Talmage, Harry Hi, at Sheedy,

Billy O’Brien, Abe Hummel, pt Oakley.

Fred Archer, Prof. Bill Clark, Steve Brodie.

Billy Madden, Gus Hill. ajor G. W. Lillie,

Ed Stokes, Billy McGlory, W. E. Gladstone,

Marquis of Queens- Dennis Butler, eng of Wales,
berry, Gus Tuthill, y

Wm. Hi. Cody, Wm. M. Woodside, Roscoe Conkling,

Patsy Sheppard, Jim Keenan, Geo. W. Childs.

Chief Insp. Byrnes, Phil Casey, Geo. W. Curtis.

Chas. 8. Parnell. Bob Ingersoll, Inspector Conling

Gen. Fitz-Hugh Lee, Chas. Bg Davies, Capt. Brooks,

Capt. Westervelt, Gen. . Capt. Saunders,

John Sherman, Capt. po xs
Jaugarine, the Champion Fencer. = OS

To those sending for one dagen of any of the atove Cabinet
Portraits, o phateerees of RICHARD KE. Fox will be sent free ot

KILRAINS COLORS.

THE FIGHTING COLORS OF JA
KILRAIN, matched to fight John i Sullivan Pad
ee walice Gazette” champion belt and $20,000, ARE

ow RE Y¥. Sporting men. Saloonkeepers and
po who desire to purchase these colors can obtain
em by forwarding $3.50 to this ofhce. Orders should
be sent immediately as the supply is limited.
RICHARD K. Fox,

Franklin Square, New York.

SSESasSSsS

Art of Gymnastics
Dumbbell and Tndinn Club Exercises
Art of Wrestli

Ned Donnelley’s Art of Boxing

The Science of Self De
Boxinje Made Eas
Modern Bartender’s Guide

Serer errr errr ee rere es Prsere

fence.....

xing...

Perecree

Benle’s Calisthenics for Young Folks
Billy Edwards’ Art of Bc
Art of Training Animals

RICHARD K. FOX,
Franklin Square, New York.

PHOTOGRAPHS.

Get the Setof four pretty French girls, highly col-
oree and oT interesting

TION

ie of antics.
riage,”’ lic.; stpsa taken. Box 20.

sitions, lic.; no two alike.

. exhibiting a young couple
“Before and After Mar-

Gents. do you want female photos from nature? We
haye them, full length. Art to the rescue. Doz.,

HrrsvuteE Co., Palatine. Ill.

ealth, Energy and Vigor restored hy our famous
H Nervous Debility Pills, $1 pe per box. 6 for $5.

Medical Institute. 2%

mont Row. Boston.

19 Rich Photos, for Gents.

Sealed. Sure to

suit, 10c.; :55 for Je. ‘THURBER X& Co., Bay Shore,N. Y

Ric# PHOTOS — How to Get Them.
drees with 2c. stamp. P ton, M

"THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. 15

GENTS’

BELT.

can
Sas
the

days’ trial, and if it¢
of 1238p pages written reat Ay:

‘without aid of a ph Lt

Disease, Piles, Heart D 8-. S:
ee. pereerce fet gt =

coametion: Female ( a 2
World to produce a 1
be mad ,

Wy Fy, ue AW &
: * of a nervous charac
eases, L

e Or :

persory ai. a

~ ee Greatest, emént Bates
ow find the Owen tobe. * edaeaiee

-| Galvanic Belt and. Bespetnesy -will,

—Rheama-

‘lepsy, Spinal - Dindenes. 8t. Vitus’,
eis General an

Nervousness, ‘tTremb ai al
aS eres in Youth aot firned ta Nervous “Pros Personal Weakness or
to Male or emale. ewe challenge the

yong cobngen control of the wearer and

sie with any other belt. The
that by means of our appliances

ted, This is
tore crea ease or as & rem
ye 'e
ig ey anie aad

Tit ih Sra

+f have in ee one

ol ctren
a. of any dover oure day oF ni nt ——— hier eg ear as itis

»we will i send on
8.endorse

roa with our tr book of are stalls in Ovenied envelope, °, Sizing inet
Price $1.00 rich cure’you of

will
ts, an 2 ie Eanes os tee ve reat as
orby free: For information how to o

“SS 1889. Every .buyer of a belt

» DR. A. oOwEnTs FLEOTRIC BELT a ~_
LADIES’ ati |
We. 4 APPLIANCE

of strength, except onr
current, ring the x No. é can be now wer |
The Electric current can be
easily worn and superior to all othe

complete -to responsible partics on thi
eee Heder for dar tres illuetrated am phiee

rey! to treat yourse Tie 9 cctriclty,
qe 3 aoe .or ce oO nov’
t will receive an honest opinion,|
oie see 128-page pamphlet. ,,

tcc. The OWEN. ELECTRIC BELT & Tone €0,, 806 North Broadway, St. Louis, Mo.

MISCELLANEOUS.

MANUFACTURERS. OF

‘Walking Canes.
oo one
Geode fr a Su:

Sti Tlustr’td
WASEINOTUN AVE. f

OE, YONCE & CO. .,

Importers of ay of ra

ro Ema x pda nd 5 guarantee

a will be given you. 7c. -stamps.
plain. Burean

Buffalo. N.Y. Clairvoyance, min,

oe eeeres ame one

Sete 5
arsan of slenee, Hox 2, |

Secret 25c, Silent Assistant 30c, Mic
vers’ Package, 10c.

roscopic Charin, 1
ported scenes 2c: 1 doz extra fine photos: i $1;?
HANSON Bros., Chicago. Il

““‘The Police Gazette Ink”

Used on this paper is manufactured ex ressiy by
FREp’K H. LEVEY & Co., 58 Beekman Street. Ne ork.

esults of Errors of Youth ~y
Health and Manhood resto red b
Debility Pills. Address N. E.

removed ;.

by the Nervous.

NEW CURE FOR LOVE. wi —_ Peg 8 ——

for 10c.

COIN? *$5Peray miei ae

DES Menke

TOILET ARTICLES.

FACIAL SLEM
The Largest

Dr. JOHN WeonatEy,
210 West t 42nd 2nd St. New York ay Mis

Inventor of

Use -Woodbury's Facial inex “By mail, a ac

we URK rey bee eect et ae

YOUTHFUL VIGOR resto

Mf -E. MED. INSTITUTE. % Tre

RUBBER GQODS.

red by the i ;
mous Nervous Debility ot 1 perboa' M for

RUBBER GOODS gee

pave pl iable, safe, durable and comb dears
satisfaction. RELAY RUBBER Co., Box 5288, Boston,

RUBBER . Q00DS. 22: pliabl ante and durable.

sorting absolute sages, jo

ail,

never fail,
hi: 3 for

LAR PRINCES SHIELDS

Gm ImPoRTINe Co., Orleago. hi:

CARDS.

GCHNUIN SE)

a Colored ga scenes, yalioens oy AB bd ‘The:
care, a eet of pictures and some e exquisite post site poetry. een

observation and

re from
for a a $1 bill. Retay IMPORTING CO, B "Dox & 6238, Boston.”

Get the set of twelve pretty
colored and in interesting

meh girs hiahiy
two alike. ‘‘A.” Box 2. No. Sees 8t.. "New Fork ;

Dtay; ¥; debility consum

our Nervous Temiite P Pi 1 per afm 6
for S . E. MED. Inst... % Pliny Ble St per box.

LAWYERS.

ivore res.—A. Goodrich, attorney-at-law. 124 Dear
born street. Chicago. Il. Advice free. ay
experience. Business quietly and legally twamanceea.

Myriets and Physical Prostration. Complete cure
A uring the Nervous Debility Pills: $1 per box, 6
i. Men. Lyet.. 44 Tremont Row, Boston.

» Largest manu-
aS in our a. Enclose

ial. facturing Conn moinnasi, hio.
for on ge per month in
y PER. WEEK sera:

Address,
Co. 8B 144, Chicarr

with sta tame S Morrill

ples wor worth $2.1 1S \PRee.
Moderate and

Disonopatie te evirestinen sAadrens or o N. k.

‘ SPORTING GOODS.

$5es Lines: fate not aude mors bor

THE BASEBALL CURVER. |

«Patented: Fifteen minutes’
% will caps yout to curve the ba

ae ys peaber, P ee ce ea
ze Room @eods of Every 7 Pesertonee

to J. W. Lewis), io Fourth Avenue, re be aad

NEW HOLDOUT aaaree,V
4 R. Wacrermirg, Spencertown,-N.Y, @

p POKER Sewn How to ep .

Sevecx Oe. Box 104, Oswego N. Y.

Gua Po a Mit rmanen nse 0
Ferrous i bl per box, ¢ tor $a, poste
Row. Boston.

: m and Waste stopped by our Nervous
Ha Teogiey nile: Sipe bex' fer $a, pommpaig
* MEDIC,

_ NERVOUS DEMETY og no more
time or money on cat

Ret on reece; a oy Fe hae an:
ara uns Saltie of! the cer VALU-
ae tive CURE ever discov-

TBLe sity A.’ 37, Sydney, Australia.

=| ASUETERER foment fame

after alt oie had failed, that he
epee all fellow suff
Se a ee ote of care Freel fellow suffer

ess

Gee oy oem rae ta
book on manly vigor

Certain Organs Enlarged. Lost Man-
etter. Mouse Mus Go, WE Tt Se ele POR

TARSE, 4 AND. PENN YROYAL.—Dr. Tavlor’s

Regulating Pille are safe and al-
crave solaeitia: ever fail. At all Drnggiets or mailed for
$1.00... C. A. Drzrs, Wholesale Drugzist, Buffalo, N. Y.

vr. Fuller’s Youthful Vigor Pills. Fo
manhood, impotence and perto ms deb: ility. pe mail
$2. All druggists. Depot. 429 Canal Street, New York.

r. Fuller’s-Pocket Injection, Syrinze combined,
cures stinginy irritationa and urinary dieeases.
All Drnyggists, $1. Depot, 429 Canal St.. New York.

exual weakness, lost manhood; «directions for home
cure sent free. HUMANE MEDICAL INsT. .Hartford,Ct.

“Nervita,” for all forma of nervons dehilit: s warrant
ed. $1 box, postpaid. Tuurnper & Co., Bay Shore, N. Y.

MEDICAL.

MEDICAL. go

te Gonorrhea, Gleet; Whites, fa

HARMLESS, SURE AND. romney

We have retailed. at our store 38;
NEL. '§ COMPOUND EXTRACT 00 ok" Unlies

“it is a Certain. and Prison Cure.

entire-system. No
danger of produci
UTI

N=o=This

or pill form. Beothet rou get et the: ‘genuine. ‘The secret
of the success o re; y ia si this

COPAIBA 1

Write tor tt full particulars for Home Cure )

EARLY DECAY.

YouTHrun. InptecreTiox (gelf-abuse or exdeds) re.
suits in complaints such -a8 LOSS OF

BEFORE THE EYES, DEFECTIVE SMELL, HEARING
TASTE, W BACK, CONSTIPATION,
NIGHT | - L088 OF SEXUAL POWER, -ETC., ETC.

p commit surcipr, and large.
| meas See ea eeeeeee S of

n' ities
er tee Serie
your own ph cian
pr a, will ‘liseases .resulti m. -
soues, if yo u will have a Remedy that in-Perfection,
‘as wellas and ‘so: Sim ple Or Can ST eal |:

the BUINATION OF HOMES are

bs Bee HOR

rin oe faline Buse hee

FOR MEN ONLY!

LOET or F.

aol REEVOU ap
mf Bott or
any dine 6 Pants ae =
Negrin ad

CURE

Eonses ee cM GUFTALO, BY,
EARLY DECAY
In Men from excesses, secret vice, ~ drain ylomes,

rope. 8
lenged the ad of every doctor who has studied
It pon AT THE VERY poor OF THE wvIL. VARI
CELE rapidly -

Address Deston-Dupre Medical Clinique,
165 Tremont St., Boston. Mass.

SEXUAL POWER

Positively and-Permanently Restored in 2 to 10 days,
omeete, _. Ps hours ; almost immediate relief. No
auseati: minerals, pills or poneent. but the
delicious oe KI CAN CONFE N, com
of fruits, herbs and plants. f. Prermore fohoow l tonic
known. memorse res the Gnep and Health of
youth. Sealed Book free, vgvin fuk rticnlars. Ad-
dress Sax MaTKO Men. Co.. P. ( . St. Louis. Mo.

ses ee eae Soe

Conorrhea. OF Giest

‘Positively and permanently cured-by using
Gedney’s Pearis, known as reltable over 50
veurs. Descriptive circular mailed FREE. Sealed
Nizat “emissions waste in the urine rmanently

cured. Nervous Debility Pills, $1 per box, 6
tor $5. N. Pi ed. Inst., 24 Tremont Row. Boston.

©.) many valuable
*| uoed for the Bat ere of r this class of.
S “the: mod

t. New York, and b druggists e .

A Guarantee given to Cure in Every Case.:

MEMOBY, SPOTS’
AND

umbered
ortupuates ? or will:you
edicine alone never did ~.
fro!

self, send ¥ add with stamp for. andl
Snieee

ERRORS OF YOUTH

Sufferers’ from Nervous Debility, Youthful’ Indincre-
tions, Lost Manhood,

“BE: YOUR, OWN PHYSICIAN!

. from the effects of youthful imp ;
have: it-about a state of weakness that -
duced the general system so much as to. Midues'l
every other Sewn. . and the real cause Ot ie. trou! To

r being suspected, they are doctored:
but the ht on otwithstan ‘the
peed sR Bi that medical setenes Lan iec,
patients, none: sot
= ~ of omg nd — a cane. oping
our ve college’ an osp! rac e Have
ented with and discovered hew an

of cases in our practice havé been re ect
health by ite use after all other remedies f Per-
es must be used in th nD
of this prescription ;
throxylon coca, 4 drachm.
Jerubeb: drachm
og a 4g drachm,
smin,
ignati~ amare (alcoholic); 2 tetas

ati
t. leptandra,°2 scruples.
Glycerin, a. 8. * Mix.
e one pill at 3. p. . evit-tmiait on
Fine Mone ote eo witiegt Ceitiene ces, oe
number three s day. is re’ :

rem
of nervous ae an
jally in those canes Sesultin from i

: i | Ree The recuperative powers of th
‘tive are t

B resto

rely astonish: te use continued for a
time c the nid, debilitated, nerveleas
condition to one of renew ;

As we are constantly in ree letters of ine
*Pelative to thi medy, we Ray to,
‘would prefer to obtain it from us, by remitting $1 i a
seoure ed | Bac containing 4 pills, carefully
componnded, will be pda by return ‘mall £ from our
‘powase Jaboratory, or we will ‘furnish’ 6 —

which will cure most cases, for $3.

Address or cail on

NEW. ENGLAND MEDIOAL INSTITUTE, i

‘24 Tremont Row. Boston: Mass.
> (Copyright 188, by F. B. Hilier.]

This famous Electro-
ic Belt cures Ner-

vous Denis mal
m ncé,an
all wakes from indis-

cretion, Paine in
Epeumatiem, Kidney Com-
pI aints, Dyspepsia, &c.
irrent strong and 8
and instantly felt by’
wearer, or we forfeit 1D. -

rat

na eer:

R1C Sall Bt. ;
BANDEN N ELECTRIC CO. " 22 Broadw way, N.Y

ER TAIN PARTS pt

} NLAR

SEXUAL POWER sae 1
cf ects of abuse removed.

are not nt
will refund

ANL SOF witi mea
ane ra rariee
_Starented)s Cites ORALFCATON iesites

- A. guaranteed cure for
; this Sieane in any stage.

line has never fail-
ec in asingle instance to

permanent cure. Correspondence and con-

Sfeation res. We challenge the production of a case
we cannot cure.

ATIONAL REMEDY Co., 144 Dodge 8t., Omaha, Neb.

STRICTURE! 1: Guaranteed perm-

anent Cure; re-

moval complete, without cutting, caustic or dili-

tation. Cures effected at home by patient without a

moment's pain or annoyance. Wonderful

Remedy, which never fails, and also cures a)! dis-

charmes aoa irri itation. Send for circulars. Drs. Betts
& Betts, 38 St. Charies-‘Street, New Orleans, Lit.

| Manhoo RESTORED.

FREE.—A victim of
Decay, apaoaag, Debilit

youthful Bigg oy me causing
y, Lost Manhood, &c
ee nm tried in vain every known phn of has discover ed
a simple means of self-cure, which he will send (sealed
FREE to bis fellow-sufferers. Address

J. H. REEVES, P O. Box 3290, How York,

[zp pediments to marriage removed by nang ¢ our
Nervous Debility Pills; 21 er box: 6 for $5, pos d,
N.E. MEDICAL INSTITUTE, 2%

Tremont Row, Boeton, Mass

ATTACHED, ‘

THE NATIONAL POLICE _¥ORK. _ TUNE 29,108

NAN

iii Le

Nash
WHE

ig Wi he,
hh Yj ,
Ya A

{| WAN atti

Uo NaN Lu

THE CONEMAUGH’S AFTERMATH.
STRAY SCENES, INCIDENTS AND SOUVENIRS OF THE GREAT AND TERRIBLE JOHNSTOWN DISASTER.


=== sim_national-police-gazette_1905-05-13_86_1448 ===

Nee

OR TING ~~

COPYRIGHTED FOR 1905 BY THE PROPRIETOR, RIC ‘HARD _K. ah x, THE FOX BUILDING, NKLIN SQUARE, _ NEW YORK CITY

Sane pags __NEW YORK: SATURDAY, MAY } 3, a ere

MAIDA SNYDER.

AMERICA’S YOUNGEST AND MOST CHARMING COMEDIENNE AS “MIMI” IN “THE
STROLLERS,” NIXON AND ZIMMERMAN OPERA COMPANY.

(HE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

THEATRICAL FACTS—

WITH A FEW

the piano are smell discs wtich connect with the notes

of the instrument and with his thirty-eight repeating

magazine rifle be brings forth a perfect tune

Frank Brown, manager of the New
Ayres,

Colos-

CALCIUM FLASHES IN BETWEEN

-—FOOTLIGHT FANCIES

RICHARD K. FOX, |

seum, in Buenos which is one

of the
houses in South America, has arrived in Europe

John R. Nalon, **‘The Musical Wonder,” has

finest

Wing He
Ot ae 4
bal 07-73 vo Rio

Established 1846.

signed with Sig Santelle and Welsh

Brothers’ Circus

EDITOR AND PROPRIETOR,
FRANKLIN SQUARE, NEW YORK CITY.

Entered at the Post-oflice, New York, N. Y.,

as Second-class Mail Matter.

SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $4.00 PER YEAR.

IShU ED EVERY WEEK.

FREE SUPPLEMENT WITH THIS ISSUE:
Arm and Hand Break in Jiu-Jitsu.

JAMES J.
CORBETT’S

NEW BOOK ON &:

ae ae

SCIENTIFIC
BOXING...

JUST OUT.

ais Se se

CONCEDED
THE

HE IS
TO BE

CLEVEREST BOXER
IN THE WORLD

And in this Volume he Telis the

Secret of his Success in the Ring.

VALUABLE HINTS
..ON TRAINING..

Together with the
wow OFFICIAL RULES.

Price 10 Cents, Postage 3c. extra.

RICHARD
New

kK. FOX, Publisher,

York City.

| The Robes.”

Items of Interest About the Clever Entertainers Who

Play in Halls and Continuous Houses.

LET POLICE GAZETTE READERS KNOW ABOUT YOU.

All Professionals Are Invited to Send in Brief Paragraphs About Themselves.

and Photos in Character For Publication on This Page.

Dianaand A, W.
country about June 1,

Tom Waters, tramp pianist, will open the
season at the head of his own show, at Rockland, Me.
on May 29.

Koler and Seymour met with great success
through the West and are now working East.

Jack Brown and Lillian Wright, who have

added several new features to their act, are booked

| solid until July 10.

The Velma Quartette (J. C. Jenkins, first
tenor; Eddie Thayer, second tenor; Louis Eaton, buari-
tone; Jack Cleary, basso) is making good, and is book-
ing parks for the Sum-
mer, introducing refined
and comedy selections,

Murphy, Brown
and Will Ward have
signed with the High

Rollers for next season.

Master W. Baum,
the boy cornettist
tenor, has signed with
De Rue Brothers’ Ideal
Minstrels.

and

Chas. Hammond,
hoop roller, since closing
with Lucier’s Minstrels,
reports success playing
dates in New England,

Daly and Herold
report meeting with
great success over the
Lang circuit at Butte and
Helena, Mont, vir

Geo. W.
ventriloquist, has
pleted a number of suc-
cessful
ments.

Hussey,

cotn-

Eastern engage-

He is booked
for « series of parks dur-
ing the coming Summer.

The Military Quar-
tette (Johnson, Spencer,
Henderson and Milton)
are on the Empire cir-
cuit in California,
have just finished six
weeks in Southern Cali-
fornia.

They

J. Louis McEvoy
and Angela May will pro-
duce shortly a musical
playlet entitled ‘Under
It is said
to be a genuine novelty
in action and in cli-
maxes,

Gilbert and Willis
are featuring with great
success Robert A. King’s
“My Lady’s Eyes,” “In
Starlight” and “Until
Then,” These clever
artists are going to the
front rapidly.

She is one

The Three Deloys

Handy will return to this |

BERTHA
of the Prettiest as well as
of the Cleverest Performers with
Famous Bohemian Burlesquers now on tour.

| have signed with Swal-
low & Markle’'s Floating Palace, which is showing on ,

the Ohio River through Pennsylvania.
doing one of the
J. Kelley, in
Neighbors.”

the musical comedy,

The Musical Adams write: ‘‘We are return-
hit,

ing East with our new act. Weare making a big
and have some of the finest novelty instruments.”’

Lorraine and Gandy have just closed
the Keith circuit.
Mr. Lorraine's work and Miss Gandy’s singing hold the
audiences well for fifteen minutes.

The Pickaninny Band with “In Old Ken- |
| tucky’

Company are making a distinct
clever rendition of “Honey I’m Waiting.’

s0Onye

hit by

Mr. John M. Powell, who is the band leader, de
serves much credit for their proticiency.

Fuidie Deloy is
principal comedies, Opposite Jack
“Neighborly |

The act is being done entirely in one.

their
the popular

Ollie Young and Brother are in
England, playing the Coliseum,

London,

The Original Two Roses, Jimmy and Edna,
report meeting with big success in their new comedy

The Wilson Trio are making a big success,
they inform us, with their comedy German act, on the
Orpheum circuit,

Mr. and Mrs. Al G. Belford are touring |

Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia with Allen’s
Comedy Company, under cinvas,

Lively, formerly of Rose and
comedy acrobats and barrel jumpers, who dissolved

partnership several weeks ago, reports meeting with

success in his novelty
contortion and band bal-
ancing act.

Jack Sully, dancer
and comedian,
signed with Al G. Field’s

next season.

Sid Winters, who
has signed for the Sum-
mer with Ewan French
Dramatic Company, had
to cancel his dates on the

Edith M, Dunbar,
who recently closed ten
weeks with the Ilome
Breakers Burlesque
Com pany, has joined the
Turkish Harem
Company.

Girls

Jeanne Brooks,
who is now
her audiences in the far
West on the Orpheum
circuit,
“Honey

is vocalizing
I’m Waiting,’
with splendid results,

Henry
is in

Hall,

llavana,

who
Cuba, is
doing a musical turn and
baton juggling act, and
reports

success,

with
Iie has return
dates in the Island,

meeting

Russell and Dun
bar are doing nicely in
the West, and after May
21 will go out with “The
Wizard of Wall Street’’
Company. Mr. Russell
is a half owner in that
company, which
Sept. 1.

opens

A new theatre will
be opened about May 30
at Nantasket Beach,
Hingham, Mass., under

the management of a |
Boston theatrical firm.
Willie Mack has been

LEWIS. engaged as business
munager,
one

Miner’s

Dutch comedian, and
Gertrude De Milt, com-
edienne, both under

the management of Hill & Scribner, will join hands at
the close of the present season, and enter vaudeville, in
a new and original character sketch, entitled “The
Vaudeville Agent.”

Hellen Russell and Edna Wells, who are

well-known in vaudeville, have been im-

mensely with Ted S. Barron's coon serenade, ‘Honey
I'm Waiting.”

most highly as an enccre getter.

scoring

is well known
revolver shot, has
Under the

Chevalier Loris, who asa

most expert rifle and introduced a

new piano feature in his act. keyboar.l of

You
Sporting

YOU WANT ALL RECORDS

pocket size.

Annual”

Facts in vest Price 10 cents;
postage 2 cents extra.

BELLE GORDON’S PHYSICAL CULTURE BOOK TELLS HOW A FINE FEMININE FORM CAN BE ATTAINED--14c. STAMPS

Lively, |

has

Greater Minstrels for |

Western circuit of parks, |

delighting

Charles Gramlich, |

A recent letter from them praises it

will have to get the ‘* Police Gazette
illustrated.

MARIE PEARSON,
A Charming and Talented Actress whose
Abilities are Fast Winning Her Fame
and Fortune before the Theatrical Public

for the tenting season. Heis at present with Charles
J. Walsh’s Vaudeville Company, and reports success
with his musical act.

Le Bar was presented, while at the Novelty

| Theatre, Sioux Falls, S. D., with a special set of scenery

for his act, by Ed Girard, of Buffalo, N. Y

Kate Groh has joined hands with Lizzie
Rogers, and they will do a strong sister act. They are
at Yale’s Theatre, Kansas City, Mo., and are meeting
with success,

Hyland and Grant will hereafter be known
as the Three Ilylancs. They have been working with
considerable success on the Pacific Coast, and
booking Exust.

are now

Billy Casey and Leslie Lisle have joined
hands, and will be seen next season in anew vaudeville
sketch, which is being written for them by George
rotten Smith.

Norman, The Frog Man, has signed a
twelve weeks’ contract with Frank P. Spellman, to be
one of the Spellman features at State and County fair,
starting July 20.

Ollie La Mont has joined hands with her
sister, Jolly, and they willbe known as the La Mont
Sisters (Ollie and Jolly).
the middle of May.

They open at Seattle about

The Great Algora reports meeting with
big success with the Wills Musical Comedy Company,
and will play a circuit of parks with that company
this coming Summer.

Will Halliday,
Quinn, and John F.
Leonard, will produce the original act

formerly and

Gilmore and

Halliday
Leonard, formerly
under the name
of Gilmour and Leonard.

Charles Ahearn has closed with the Baker
Troupe, and is doing a new comedy bicycle act, in con
Junction with Jac. Gray. The act

will be known as

Charles and Jac. Ahearn.

James Purvis, Irish tenor, has returned
to his home in Buffalo, having been with the Ili Henry
Minstrels. Heis working in the Sunday night con-
certs at the Lyceum Theatre, Niagara Falls, with great
success

A feature of Fred Irwin's
the
Their clever work both in

Big Show is the

singing by Four Connollys of “Honey I’m Wait-

ing.”’ singing and dancing

brings forth numerous recalls from their audiences at

every performance,

character change

has
four

Montgomery Crane arranged a

act, assuming characters, and

introducing songs and eccentric dances with each

change. Ile has had great success and is arranging for

Summer park dates

IHE

A RACE WITH DEA

HAS BEEN ARRANGED

BETWEEN SWIMMERS

iia

(. D. Graham and W. J. Glover, Jr., to Race Through

the Whirlpool

Rapids at Niagara.

WILL DEFY THE TREACHEROUS WATERS THERE.

Many Men and Women Who Have Sought Fame in the Rapids, and Many |

Have Paid the Penalty With Death.

UMMER time will bring. if everything
comes out according to agreement, a
contest between two famous swim-

part. The statement is made that
an agreement has been made by
C.D. Grabam and W. J. Glover, Jr.,
of Baltimore, to race through the Whirlpool rapids
of Niagara. Glover is said to be Maryland’s champion
swimmer, but he has never yet had any experience in
the waters of the Niagara gorge. Graham has in the
past twenty years performed remarkable feats there,

mers in which death may play a star |

Youngstown went through the rapids in a small boat.
He was thrown out and forced to battle for hfe with
the waves, but he landed in the Whirlpool.
companion was lost.

Next came John Lincoln Soules, who was unable to
get into the main current and landed on the
the Canadian side with an injured leg.

For ten years the waters of the rapids knew no
seekers after fame, untilon June 9, 1900, Peter Nissen

Ilis dog

rocks on

of Chicago made the trip seated in the open cock pit of

In 1886 he announced at Philadelphia that he would |

go through the Whirlpool rapids in a barrel of his own
construction. The time was three years after Capt.
Webb, the English champion, had gone down to death
in the terrible currents. Graham’s statement caused
people familiar with the Niagara River to laugh.

The steamer Maid of the Mist bad previously to this
been the only craft to carry human freight through
the gorge in safety, and to think that a man in a barrel
would excel the feat of Joel Robinson and his boat on
June 6, 1861, seemed ridiculous. The conclusion was
that the body of a dead Philadelphia cooper would
have to be searched for between the rapids and falls
should Graham attempt the feat.

When Graham and his barrel reached Niagara he
was told this, Everybody said he was foolish; that he had
no idea of the terrific force of the waves that tumble
between the mighty cliffs of the narrowest part of the
famous gorge, just below the great railway bridges.

Graham looked the rapids and the gorge over care- |

fully and determined to make the voyage. He selected
the afternoon of Sunday, July 11, 1886, for his per-
formance. <A great crowd gathered, many of them
remembering how Webb went down to death and ex-
pecting to witness another and similar tragedy.

Graham was on time to the minute, and, protected
only by bis barrel, a boat towed him out into the main
current and set him adrift. It was 4:50 P, M., and
eight minutes later he wasin the Whirlpool. Within
two minutes the barrel had passed out of the pool and
was enroute to Lewiston, where it was picked up and
Graham was found to be alive and uninjured.

This performance amazed everybody.
also to belittle the power of the great rapids and the

It seemed |

Whirlpool. Elevator owners, hackmen, and those who |

made «# living through the coming of visitors to see the
“nastiest bit of water in the world” began to call for a
stoppage of such performances in the rapids, realizing
that they could no longer tell peoplethat the waters
were unconquered, Webb’s death had brought money
to their coffers, for many people longed to look upou
the waves that had beaten the life out of England's
champion swimmer,

Undaunted, Graham showed that he still had his
nerve by announcing a second trip through the rapids
for Thursday, Aug. 19, 1886. He said he would keep his
head out of the barrel, so that all who came to witness
the performance might see him, There was a bigger
crowd than at his first exhibition,

It was a remarkable sight to see the barrel boat with
a buman head above it bob up and down through the
One moment it would be high in the air, the
next out of sigint under the foamy wash of the rapids.

This time Graham landed in the whirlpool on the
Canadian side, the stream failing to shoot his barrel
into the currents of the outlet. In the passage through
the rapids tne wave that killed Capt, Webb struck
Grabam a terrible blow on one side of his head, and
from that day to this he has never heard a sound in
that ear. Thus did the rapids give Graham something
to remember,

waves,

On June 15, 1887, Graham made a third trip through
the rapids, and on Aug. 25, 1889, be used a much
smaller barrel in making a fourth trip, passing entirely
through the gorge to Lewiston.

Graham ’s performances attracted others to Niagara
in search of fame. Among them were George Hazlett,
William Potts and Sadie Allen, all barrel navigators.

From Boston came William J. Kendall, a policeman,
who made the swim through the rapids wearing a life
preserver. James Scott of Lewiston went down to
death in trying to swim from the Whirlpool to Lewis-
ton. Charles Alexander Percy made several boat trips,
on one of which from the pool to Lewiston he was ac-
companied by William A, Dittrick.

tobert William Flack journeyed from Syracuse to
Niagara, bringing with him a boat about which he
threw much mystery.
the trip through the rapids on July 4, 1858,

The craft was clinker shape.|, and Just as Flack was
the
shot into the Whirlpool his boat was upset.

Strapped to his seat, he made

mounting last wave of the rapids and was being
Suspended
from the seat, held fast by the “life saving harness,”
he was drowned, while hundreds stood on the cliff un-
able to lend a hand,

For one hour and ten minutes his body drifted about
the tossing waters of the great river pocket, until final-
ly his boat was caught on the Canadian side and towed
to shore.

On Sunday, 1889, Walter

Sept. b. G. Campbell of

a boat he had made, This again turned attention to

the rapids, and on Sept. 7, 1901, Graham swam trom
the Whirlpool to Lewiston.

This was to have been a double stunt, for Maud
Willard voyaged through the Whirlpool rapids to the
It was Graham’s intention, bad the

pool in a barrel.

ikea wiki man. swinging as he went i (ne of hi«

lunges, delivered with terrific force, caught Butler on

the point of the Jaw and the colored man dropped like
; ® log. He was unable to rise

Within the preseribed

limit, and Maher, surrounded by hundreds ot admir-
ing friends, wes fairly carried from the ring

In the semi windup, Terry Martin, although conced
ing fully tifteen

Jones in a rouxgh-bouse¢

pounds, succeeded in besting Harry
bout.

DESHLER BEATS

Dave

MOSEY KING.

Deshler was given the decision over Mosey

Deshler did some splen-
did work, but his blows lacked the power to put King
uway. The forced to stall in the first five

rounds, but then, seeing that his opponent's blows were

King after fifteen fast rounds at

Worcester, Mass., on April 27

the Lakeside

latter war

not dangerous, he did some hard work.

THE NATIONAL GAME.

A Series of Supplements to this paper
will commence with No. 1450, out May 25.
They will be the Stars of the National
and American Basehall Leagues, and will
positively be the best picturesever placed
before admirers of the game.

THIS WAS A FAKE KID MURPHY.

Oue of the rankest counterfeits that was ever thrown
before the public as a pugilist, was handed up before
the Eutaw A. C., at Baltimore, Md.,on April 27, by
Sam Solomon, of the Capital City, in the shape of
Young Murphy, of Chicago.

Murphy was scheduled to go fifteen rounds with
Tommy Lowe. also of Washington. The so-called
Chicagoan lasted exactly two minutes and twenty-five
seconds, Inthe brief time that he lasted, he demon-
strated that be did not know the first rudiments of the
boxing game,

BOBBY DOBBS DOWN AND OUT.

Bobby Dobbs was knocked out in the eighteenth
round of his bout with Young J. L. Sullivan, at Liver-
pool, England, on April 27. The original contest was
scheduied tor twenty rounds for a purse and $200 a side.

J. H. SCOTT,

FIRE CHIEF, PALM BEACH, FLA.

A Popular and Efficient Officer Photographed while Standing Under a Mammoth Rubber

Tree. The Chief
barrel gone out of the pool, to have accompanied it to
Lewiston, but the currents of the Whirlpool did not
give up the barrel and its buman freight until late that
night, and poor Maud Willard was found lifeless in the
barrel, A dog that accompanied her was alive.

After waiting for the currents to release the barrel,
Graham made the swim, returning to the pool to assist
in the rescue of Miss Willard. Her mother died of a
broken heart about a month later.

Graham had swum from the pool to Lewiston since

then, but not since Maud Willard died has he been |

through the Whir!tpool rapids, Nissen made his second
trip, and Martha Wagenfubrer made the barrel voyage,
while Mrs. Annie Edson Taylor made the plunge over
the Horseshoe in a barrel of Kentucky oak, taking the
laurels away from all other Niagara performers.

Since Graham ’s first performance at Niagara he has
been growing old. His hair is streaked with gray, and his
strength is not what it was twenty years ago. Niagara
Falls folks who know him best are wondering if his
remaining strength will be equal to the task of a race
through the waters that killed Webb, that killed Flack
and that killed pretty Maud Willard.

MAHER SCORES A KNOCKOUT.

Peter Maher scored one of the luckiest knockouts of
his career, at Philadelphia, on April 27, when he save
Joe Butler his quietus after one minute and forty-five
seconds of the first round had elapsed.

sutler started out to make a fast job of it and drove
a terrific rightto Maher’s jaw, dropping him for the
count of nine,

When he got up he rushed at Butler

ALL AQUATIC RECORDS
Are a feature of the “Police Gazette Sport-
ing Annual” for 1905; illustrated: which is
the best book of the
postage 2 cents extra,

conceded to be kind,

Price 10 cents

is the Guardian of the

Greatest Hotel Properties in this Country.

This was brought to a conclusion in the first round,
when the referee disqualified Sullivan for foul hitting.
Another contest was immediately arranged, and Sulll-
van again adopted illegitimate tactics. After much
uproar the bout was resumed. Dobbs had the best of

his right, flooring his opponent, who was counted out.

A HOT BOUT AT POTTSVILLE.

In the hottest contest ever pulled off at Pottsville,
Pa., Nick Hollywood, of Coaldale, received the decision
over Joe Wagner, of New York, before the Twentieth
Century Physical Culture Club on April 27.

It was Holiywood’s fight for fully ten rounds, It

looked serious for Hollywood, who was the aggressor
throughout the contest, in the fourteenth round, when
Wagner by a remarkable recovery, shot right and left
into him, knocked him down twice and once through
the ropes into the audience. The gong saved Holly-
| wood from a defeat inthis round. In the final round
Hollywood recovered and finished strong.

DINKLE ROCKED TO SLEEP.

Fred Blackburn, of Philadelphia, gave Billy Dinxle,
of Syracuse, an awful beating at the Wilmington ( Del.)
A. ©, Casino, on April 26, putting bim out in the sixth
round, Itwas Blackburn’s fight all the way through,

is a left-handed thrower.

POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY 3

I BASEBALL HITS »° RUNS

Arndt has been returned to Louisville by
Cincinnati.

Sam Wise is
league in Obto.

now umpiring for a small

President Ban Johnson is set against Spring
trips to the far South hereafter.

Cincinnati will carry eighteen players this
season, including six regular pitchers.

First baseman Clancy isan ice cream soda
flend; never drinks anything stronger.

There ts a striking resemblance between
Shannon and Clarke, of the Cardinals.

Hanlon has five young twirlers and hopes
to get fair results, and bis chances are bright.

Clarke Griffith wants totrade Fultz, Putt-
mann and Kielnow for Patten and Kittredge.

McGinnity has devoted his entire time to
pitching the raise ball, with which he was so successful
last season,

President Herrmann pinned checks tor
#100 to the releases handed pitchers Bert Farrell and

Jim Feeney,

Stahl, the boy manager, seems to be get-
ting Washington out of the rut in which she has been
going for so long.

Manager Lajoie thinks it about time for
Cleveland to win a pennant. Itis up to Larry and his
men to land the flag.

Billy Keeler says that the secret of success-
ful batting isto “meet the ball on the nose,”
means hit it dead centre.

which

Ban Johnson says this will be the banner
year for baseball, and that the American
be at the top of the heap.

Mike Lynch, the Pittsburg pitcher, ex-
pects to be a lawyer some day and puts In all his spare
time studying Blackstone,

League will

Heinie Peitz is the oldest man on the Pitts-
burg team. He confesses to have celebrated bis thirty-
fourth birthday anniversary,

It begins to look as though the team that
heads the New Yorks (in either league) for the pen-
nant will have to play phenomenal ball.

Homer Hildebrand, of the Pittsburg Club,
President Dreyfuss thinks
he will become a star left-handed pitcher.

Fred Clarke was the first player to be fined
in the National League. He sent his personal check to
President Pulliam and said he was sorry.

Manager Hanlon has disposed of Cronin,
Bell, Pastorius, Durham, Beecher and McCormick.
Thus do the fifty-seven varieties continue to shrink.

Hans Wagner, like Sam Crawford, was a
barter before taking up baseball as a profession, and
is authority for the statement that he was a mighty
poor one,

In the Winter season, Frank Bowerman,
Giant catcher, is a Wisconsin dairyman. He rarely
#pilis the cream on tbe ball field, and ought to make a
good milkman.

The fans in St. Louis are taking a greater
fancy to the Browns than to the Cardinals this year.
The young blood with the Browns has made the team
of extra interest.

Chicago Nationals are delighted over the
showing of Pteffer, the Illinois University pitcher.
Manager Stahl tried to land the youngster, but Selee

| got in ahead of him,

it, until the eighteenth round, when Sullivan landed |

Lewis, the Brooklyns new shortstop, is hit-
ting the ball with some degree of frequency, and also is
fielding in sensational style. Evidently Manager Han-
jon has a find in him,

For the first time in eighteen years Monte
Cross is compelled to stay out of the game for a pro-
tracted period. Frank Hough, who is taking Monte's
place, is the real thing.

Connie Mack believes in brains in base-
ball, Eight of the Athletics are college men. Two of
them are fullblooded Indians—Bender, a Chippewa,
and Bruce, a Cherokee.

“I may be the oldest one in the Pittsburg
bunch,’ says Heinie Peitz, “but I am going to give
some of those fresh youngsters like Leever, Ritchey
and Wagner an awful chase.”’

Leon Ames’ pitching against the Brooklyn
(N. L.) team recently, was of the “star order."’ He

| shut them out in superb style, showing again that

and he hac the Syracuse boy completely at his mercy, |

raining wicked blows on his body and jaw, and several
rizht and left jolts that hurt.

Dinkle tried to stay the full six rounds, but he was
too far gone to stand the punishment which the Quaker
City fighter administered, and took the count after

Blackburn

showed up in good form and his Jab hooks were especi-

about one minute of fighting in the sixth.

ally effective. Dinkle made a fair showing during the
first two or three rounds, but after that time it was only

| & matter of trying to stay the limit.

' a big league job in playing other positions.

McGraw has made no mistake.

Shortstop McBride is the Beau Brummel
of the Piratical push—always looks as if he had just
stepped out of a bandbox, being one of the best
groomed young men the game has ever had.

Keeler and Williams had the good fortune
recently to be the “‘whole show,”’ by winning a 1 to 0
came against the Philadelphia (A. L.) team, with a bit
apiece— Keeler crossing the plate with the only score.

Luther Taylor, the great mute pitcher,
of the champion Giants, is perhaps the most remark-
able man in baseball, He lives at Baldwin, Kan., and
spends his Winters acting as tutor in a school for deaf
and dumb persons,

In the old days the stars were big, heavy
men, To-day most of the leading players are small
men, Keeler, Leach, Parent, McGraw, Wallace, Collins,
Ferris, Elberfeld and many others—all small men.

None of them are sluggers like the old-timers.

Pitcher Frank Smith, of the White Sox, is
regarded speediest pitcher in the American
Iie can also hit and field well enough to hold
He is the
man Kid McCoy says might be trained to beat Jefines.

us the
League.

BICYCLING RECORDS
That are right will be found in the “Police
Gazette Sporting Annual” for 1905; illus-
trated. Sent to your address for 10 cents;
postage 2 cents extra.

NEXT WEEK’S FREE HALFTONE SUPPLEMENT--AN ILLUSTRATIVE JIU-JITSU LESSON POSED FOR BY EXPERTS

ye ETT

eek

Seer: S00

mae a
- + rename

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

Ri SS OE ee — mae Deine — a

MARY MANNERING, A THEATRICAL STAR. MLLE. BALLAUF, A LEADING BURLESQUER.

PAPINTA, WHO IS A GREAT DANCER. a “ee TESSIE MOONEY, A SINGING COMEDIENNE.

GERTRUDE BLANCKE, CAN SING AND ACT. ADRA AINSLEE, NEW YORK FAVORITE, MAUD CASWELL, WHO IS NOW IN EUROPE.

JUST LOOK THEM OVER.
TALENTED PERFORMERS ON THE VAUDEVILLE, THE BURLESQUE AND THE LEGITIMATE STAGE.

FRANK L. BLACK. THEY ARE KNOWN AS THE SQUEDUNKS.
PRESIDENT ARCADE A. C., NEW YORK. ORGANIZATION OF SPORTING MEN OF BUFFALO, N. Y.. UNDER LEADERSHIP OF J. E. MULLEN.

BROWNE, RIGHTFIELDER. WARNER, NOW WITH ST. LOUIS. PITCHER AMES.
HERE IS A TRIO OF GOOD PLAYERS WHO WILL BE VERY MUCH IN EVIDENCE ON THE BASEBALL DIAMOND THIS SEASON.

BASKETBALL CRACKS. RUFE TURNER.

THE TEAM OF TROOP E, SIXTH CAVALRY, FORT MEADE, S. D.,, STOCKTON, CAL., LIGHTWEIGHT WHO RECENTLY
WHO CHALLENGE ANY TEAM AT THE POST FOR MONEY, JOE GANS ALL HE COULD ATTEND TO.

DEAD HEATS ON THE TURF

WHEN

THEY OCCUR ARE

EXCITING, BUT UNUSUAL

How the Judge of Position at an American Race

Course Picks Out the Winning Horse.

WHEN HENRY OF NAVARRE

A Remarkable Race in Australia When Three Horses Ran Together, and Sent Over

AND DOMINO BROKE EVEN.

the Gourse Again, Finished Together a Second Time.

NE frequently hears of dead heats on |
the turf, but few bave any definite
idea concerning them, or what they
represent other than two or more
horses finishing abreast. The term
undoubtedly came from the old days
before the war, when the bulk of

racing was in what were termed heats of stated dis-

tances, This meaning that the full distance had to be
covered three, or possibly more times before the win-
ner was finally selected. Therefore, asthe loser in each
contest was ruled out of further competition a heat
which resulted in no definite winner was dead so far as

utility went,and had to be run over again for a

decision.

What is not generally grasped, however, Is the cir-
cumstances surrounding such a race, Two or more
horses start from a given line and race to the first turn,
the majority of races being run on an elliptic, and prac-
tically all the dead heats occurring there. At this turn
certain advantage must be gained by one of the horses
getting around close to the rail, the outside horse travel-
ing 80 much further. Two horses seldom run head and
head allthe way. Then, asthe finish approaches, the
two draw closer and closer together, and finally flash
past the Judge so aligned he cannot tell which was in
front.

The judge does not look at these animals as does the
spectator. In his box on a level with the head of the
horses. he stands, Far across the track is A perpendicu-
lar white line down the centre of a broad blackboard.
On the further side of the track, in line with the black-
board, is an upright lance, 10 feet high. A similar lance
appears on the near side of the track, also aligned with
those two, and eight feet further away, where the pub-
lic cannot see it, is still another lance, also in line.
When the race starts, the Judge places an arm chair
with its back to this fourth lance, and, leaning on the
arms with both hands, waits for the norses to enter the
stretch. As they near the finishing point he leans for-
ward, placing his left eye aguinst the lance so that the
sight is obstructed, while with the right eye he brings
the other two lances and the while line on the black-
board into one blended mark. The first nose ACTOSS
that line of vision is the winner, and the difference of
a single inch is clearly shown tothe practiced eve. This
is what the great mass of the visitors do not under-
stand. Itis also impossible to overlook a horse. No
matter where on the track it may be running, close
under the Judge’s nose or right across at the outer rail,
it is equally in view as the animal in the middle of the
track.

The truly marvelous quickness of the human eye is
shown by the fact that a nose finish of, say, four inches,
the breadth of a man’s hand, is represented by about
the one hundred and fiftieth part of a second. The
average length of a horse is nine feet, and the speed
traveled reaches 53 feet to the second, witness the 0:5634
record at Morris Park for five furlongs.

Strange to say, it is not always the leading horse
which first catches the eye of the judge, this being an
apparent contradiction, due to a factor which misleads
many people who see differently from the judge, and
are not slow in insisting he has made a mistake
where the official placing was absolutely correct. This
is because two horses running together constantly vary
as to the leader, unless they are both striding instep.
Thus an extended horse’s nose will show distinctly in
front of the nose of a horse which is gathered fora
stride, with all his feet under him. Yet, at his shoul-
ders, the gathered horse may be distinctly in front.
Thus individuals immediately to the left or to the right
of the finish line, and some distance back from it, may
feel positively certain that their eyes saw so and so, and
be perfectly correct, while the line of the judge’s vision
shows exactly where the horses finished as they flasbed
past the judicial finish line of the race. This may per-
haps be emphasized by the fact that dead heats appear
to be much more frequent in England than in this
country, this being apparently due to the fact that the |
English judge bas no lance arrangement, that he stands
at some distance irom the horses, and that the one
man places the first, second and the third horses, in-
stead of only the first, as does the judge in the metro-
politan racing circuit.

It is, therefore, interesting to note that while there
were no dead heats on the Eastern race tracks in 1903,
there were three in 19094. This isa marked change, as
was shown by a friendly dispute which arose during
the past season on the occasion of one of the dead
heats.

A sporting man made a statement as to such finishes,
and was contradicted by another man, and finally the
matter was reserved for investigation. The records
proved that in the last ten years there had been 20
dead heats, two at Aqueduct, two at Baltimore, seven
at Brighton Beach, two at the Brooklyn course, one at
Morris Park, three at Saratoga, two at Coney Island,
and one at Washington, D.C. the last
from 1884, there have been 163 dead heats in the United
States, 1884 had the

maximum number of 16, Showing clearly how greatly

In 20 years,

everywhere included, of which

we have advanced in the science of distinctly seeing a
close finish,

Possibly one of the most phenomenal dead heats was
at the Coney Island Jockey Club in 1883, when the
famous steeplechase horse, Jim McGowan, carried 160
pounds, to the 137 pounds of Spider, over the two miles
and a half, to be absolutely inseparable at the finish.
The owners would not consent to a division of the
purse, the light weight’s owner thinking he had a sure
thing over another two miles and a half, while Jim
McGowan’s owner may perhaps have had prescience
of the truly wonderful horse he had racing under his

| and Loch Lochie.

| Started and ran a dend heat.

| down

Still remarkable is the fact
that, when sent to the post to again cover the course,

once more the three ran %

more

dead heat, and the purse was
then divided. This seems almost incredible, yet there is
the fact appearing in the records of that
country.

racing
Dead heats in England have been many and sensa-
tional, one of the most interesting to Americans being
in 1857, when Prioress, taken there by Mr. Ten Broeck
and Mr. Morris, ran a dead
Queen Beas, in the Cesarewitch.
dead heat in England, with
for second place. Possibly still more
the running of the famous Craven
sticker, Polly Johnson and
1858. Being sent again to the post, Pinstickerand Polly
Jobnson ran a dead heat, with Bar One beaten off.
These two again went to the post, and this time Pin-
sticker won by three quarters of a length.

In October, 1877, in the Post Sweepstakes, three horses
Tredegar, [nval and Fair
Lioness, Tredegar winning the run-off. In the San-
Park Derby, 188, tive horses in the Electric
Stakes, resulted in a dead heat fur Marden, Gerald and
Leonora, and a similar result was achieved in the Bad-

Prioress ran another
Brewer, in another race,

heat with El Hakim and |

sensational was |
Plate, when Pin- |
Bar One ran a dead heat in

minton Plate in 1896, with Messala, Bajardo and Caase |

Con, eclipsed by the triple dead heat of Scobell, Wan-
dering Nun and Mafurka, while Cumberland and
Thora ran another dead heat, a short bead behind the
first three.

All of which appears to be distinctly complimentary
to the placing of the modern American Judge.

KID HERMAN DRAWS WITH ERNE.

Kid Herman and Young Erne met in the final at the
Washington Sporting Club, Philadelphia, on April 24,
and they wound up the six rounds with honors about
even,

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

| DOINGS OF THE PUGILISTS

| Owen Moran, the English bantam, is aftera
match with Frankie Neil.

Battling Nelson will soon try conclusions
with some of the boys in the East.

Gus Ruhlin has a challenge left in him yet,
but it won't go any farther than a challenge.

Young Corbett has decided to return East,
as his match with Hanlon has been declared off

Kid Carter, of Louisville, Ky., defeated
Kid Steher, of Cincinnati. in four rounds recently.

Gus Gardiner and Kid Coffey fought a
ten-round draw at Mount Clemens, Mich., recently.

Although boxing is not allowed in New
York, fights in private are almost of nightly occurrence.

Abe Attell has récovered from the recent
operation on his nose, and is planning a busy cam-
paign.

Rufe Turner, the ’Frisco lightweight, who
polished off all the Philadelphia boxers, h s returned

to the Coast. ‘

Mike Schreck, since he defeated George
Gardiner, has received tempting offers to uppear on
the Pacific Coast.

San Francisco sporting men have proposed

a benefit for Young Corbett, but the popular Denverite

Erne had rather the better on points, but the Kid’s

blows were full of steam, and his rushes were fierce. In
the third round Erne went through the ropes as a re-
sult of one of the Kid’s dashes across the ring. In the
fifth Erne caught Herman a punch in the bread

has

Ser.

alae’ wom
Py as bar Sasi ny wt, a5, a aoe anh ye i —- os

oa et

ive

ene ae ee *

Yue aaa

wast

0 *oraeey” Ate,

DEVELO.

Here is a Courageous Western Bicyclist whose Act consists in Riding his Wheel Around
the Inside of a Perpendicular Track, Beginning at the Bottom and Gradually Working

Up to the Top.

colors, Twenty minutes later the race started, and
Jim McGowan won very easily, a remarkable test of
endurance. Later, M. N. Nolan bought Jim McGowan,

changed his name to Bourke Cockran, possibly the

greatest steeplechase horse this country has ever pro-
| duced, whose record of two miles and a half, in 4:2745,

carrying 176 pounds, still stands as f& record, at any
weight for the distance, This was probably the most
remarkable dead heat of the Eastern turf. It is worthy
of note that, in this country, the dead heats, when run
off, are generally a very hollow victory for the even-
tual winner, thus demonstrating the horse with most
endurance,

Among the interesting historic
American turf, was that the
Henry of Navarre and Domino, these being the only
starters. A quarter of a mile from the finish they
were neck and neck, and,in one of the most terrific
equine struggles of modern times, the brown head of
Henry of Navarre slowly crept up, until at the win-

dead heats of the

in match race between

ning post it was impossible to separate them, and the
most sensational dead heat of the country was declared.
The narrowest escape from a phenomenal dead heat
was June 20, 1900, at Newport, Ky., when seven horses
finished noses apart.

In Australia, two years ago, in the Moorfield Handi- |

cap, ata mile and a quarter, there were eight starters’
and three of them ran a dead heat, Highfiyer, Barindi

RELIABLE TURF RECORDS

Are contained in the “Police Gazette Sport
ing Annual” for 1905; illustrated: greatest
book of the year. 10
cents extra.

Price cents; postage 2

He Challenges anyone in the World to Duplicate his Performance.

basket,
round.

and the Kid did not fully recover all that
For three rounds the milling was as fast as
rushes and infighting would permit.

Aftera few of Herman’s rushes, and after he had
gone through the ropes, Erne seemed a little leery of
the Kid. Erne lost the better part of the sight in one
eye in the third. It was a case of rush and a hard
clinch, with both boys exchanging compliments of all
kinds,

ft was not until near the close of the sixth that there
was much milling again. Then it was give and take
with both men holding their own pretty well.

Inthe semi-windup Harry
Kid Egan, of Washington.

Decker had ashade on
Decker was too big for the
Kid, who fought a great up-hill battle.

FARREN AND LEVI DRAW.

Jimmy Farrenand Mitchell Levi fought eight rounds
to a draw, before the Nonpareil A. C., Baltimore, Md.,
on April 25. Wilmington Jack Daly and Herman Mil-
ler were billed to go fifteen rounds, but Daly didn’t see
enough money in the house and refused to go on.

ooo

A NEW BOWLING RECORD.

The Grand Central Bowling team, of Brooklyn, con-
cluded the interstate and five-man team
matches for the New York State championship at the
Grand Central Palace alleys, Brooklyn, on April 25.

They defeated the Buffalo Bowling Club team and
won the State championship, creating a world’s record
of 1.1343 for the five-man game

two-man

Such a score was

never rolled before, and it is likely to stand for some

time to come

would not have it.

George Cole, the colored boxer of Phila-
delphia, bested. Ben Trimble of in the
Quaker City recently.

California,

What a bunch of pugilists will apply for
reinstatement to the A. A. U. if the Governor signs bis
name to the Frawley bill.

Bob Fitzsimmons is reported to have agreed
to fight Mike Schreck, of Cincinnati. The match will

| probably come off in California.

Marvin Hart says he will never fight another
colored man. Johnson has been saying some sussy
things about the Louisville idol.

Bat Sullivan, brother to the well-known
Spike and Dave, has taken to boxing.
amateur, he has the earmarks of a comer.

Though an

Young Peter Jackson wants to fight Jack
Johnson, and says he will bet $1,000 the big California
colored man can’t stop him in twelve rounds.

The acting of James J, Jeffries, in the role
of “Davy Crockett, ’ does not enthuse the gallery boys
as much as his three rounds with Jim Kennedy.

The referee of the Hart-Johnson fight may
have given a strictly fair decision, but it must have
been very close when it took a column to explain it.

Jack (Twin) Sullivan and Harry Krant
have left for Dawson, and they expect to clean up the
pugs in the Arctic Circle. Twin is matched with Nick
Burley and Krant is scheduled to meet Fred Wyatt.

CRACKS OF THE DIAMOND.

Halftone Photographs of the Best Base-
ball Players in the land will be given
away free with the Police Gazette. The

| first will be published with No. 1450, out

May 25. Now isa good time to subscribe,
and then you will get them all. Only
$4-00 for one year.

MISCELLANEOUS SPORTS.

Jeffries advises Wrestler Gotch to stick to
the mat,

An offer of $8,000 from a Pittsburg man
has been refused for Snyder McGregor, 2:07'4.

Wrestler Hackenschmidt has arranged a
few hanaicap matches, and will then sail for Europe.

The old cup yachts Mayflower and Priscilla,
| are to be fitted with motors and will be auxiliaries in
the future.

Harry Model, the New York lightweight
wrestler, will probably be matched to meet George
Bothner for a side bet.

Danny Maher, the American jockey, won
the City and Suburban handicap on Pharisee, at the
Epsom course, England, on April 26.

Hildebrand, the favorite jockey, has struck
his gaitnow. The other day at Jamaica, New York,
he won three out of four mounts, one being at a juicy
price,

Isaac Eckert, of Reading, Pa., has entered
Single K., 2:114%, by Young Fullerton, or Alexander
Cam pbell, 2:1154, by Baron Star, in the 2:10 Empire
State $10,000 stake at Buffalo. John Mc, 2:09%, by Rex

Americus, is also entered by J. M. McCready, of
| Sewickley, Pa,
The Regatta Committee of the New York

Yacht Club announced its scheduled of races for the
coming season as follows: May 30, Spring Cups; for all
regular and special classes. June 15, Fifty-ninth annual
regatta and races for Bennett Cups. July 8, Glen Cove

Cups. Aug. 10, Rendezvous Cups,

M.J. Dwyer, the heavyweight wrestler of
Atlanta, Ga., met Charles Murphy of Denver, at At-
lanta, Ga., recently, and agreed to throw the Westerner
twice in an hour, but found that the task was too
much, Dwyer gained the first fall in thirty-two
minutes, but could not do the trick in the remaining
time.

Thomas O’Brien, formerly a_ successful
jockey. died in St. Joseph’s Hospital at Memphis, on
April 26, from apoplexy, thought to have been brought
on by a fall from his horse while racingin New Orleans
two years ago. Hiscollar hone was broken and he re-
ceived internal injuries from which he never entirely
recovered,

THE BEST SPORTING BOOK
Is the “Police Gazette Sporting Annual”
for 1905: illustrated
and tells everything.
2 cents extra,

it fits in the vest pocket
Price 10 cents: postage

THE HOFFMAN HOUSE BARTENDER’S GUIDE TELLS HOW TO MIX COOLING SUMMER DRINKS---25c., POSTAGE 4c,

Pipers ee

THE

A DEFENSE OF JIU-JITSU

Higashi, the Famous Expert, Issues a Challenge to
All Rough and Tumble Fighters.

WOULD BE A GOOD DEMONSTRATION.

Saito Answers Those Skeptics Who Don’t Believe in a Science Which Has
Stood the Test of Thousands of Years.

By K. SAITO of Nagasaki, Japan.—No. 9.

NLESS the challenge of a well-known
Japanese jiu-jitsu expert is ignored,
there will be a demonstration before
long of the practical value of that

science that will convince the most

skeptical. Higashi has announced
that he will meet any man inarough and tumble en-
counter, everything to go, and he doesn’t draw the line
at size or weight. He is perfectly willing to compete
against any man who may be produced for the purpose.

When Higashi’s actual weight is taken into consider-
ation, the challenge, to the crdinary man, would seem
lixe a most ebsurd one, and there may be those who
will scoff at it, but the fact remains that he has chal-
lenged in good faith and stands ready to make good at
any time,

Up to the present no man has taken up his defy, even
though many have said that Higashi stands no chance
whatever with such an opponent.

At any rate his sincerity, his belief in himself nor his
physical courage can be questioned.

The commonest argument against Jiu-Jitsu is that the
expert cannot secure the holds necessary to a victory,
although it is conceded that the holds themselves are
all right. I have received many letters on the subject,
and the general tenor of them has been:

“Do you expect a man to stand still while you get a
bone-breaking or joint-dislocating
lock on him? What will he be
doing all the time ?”’

There are several ways of an-
swering that.

The average boxer can deliver a
particularly hard blow with his
right hand, sufficient, if landed on
the point of the Jaw, to produce a
knockout, and any good boxer can
knock out an opponent if he lands
right. But isthe other man going
to let him do it? If the blow is
tried and doesn't land on the vul-
nerable spot, does he conclude that
his system is all wrong, and give
upin despair? Does he keep on
trying to land the same blow in
the same place ?

Certainly not.

If he fails to land on the point
of the jaw with his right, he tries
his left for the stomach, or he
upper cuts, or he crosses, or he
tries for the kidneys. He has
many different feints and punches,
allof which be tries until he finally
succeeds in doing what he started
out to do, or succumbs to the
superior cleverness or hitting
ability of his opponent.

So with jiu-jitsu.

The Japanese has no one par-
ticular invincible hold. He, too,
If he fails

to secure a certain hold he tries for

like the boxer, feints.

another one, equally eflective, and
if that also fails, he has many
others which follow in quick suc-
cession. He relies for victory upon
superior speed, cleverness, and a i ea
in detail in
complete knowledge of the human
anatomy. The tender, sensitive
points of the human system are as :
. inevitable.
an open book to him, and he
knows how to take instant advan-
tage of every one. He doesnt as a rule want instant
victories. Ile is taught to allow his opponent to believe
that he (the opponent) is gaining the victory. He per-
mits his man to become over-confident. Just as clever
boxers have simulated grogginess or injury in the ring
for the purpose of courting attack from the man who |
thinks he cannot lose,

I could cite many such cases, but it is not necessary,

READ ALL ABOUT AN OPIUM JOINT IN CHUCK CONNORS GREAT BOOK, BOWERY LIFE---29 CENTS

for even the mention of this must bring instances to
the minds of POLICE GAZETTE readers.

I don't feel that it is necessary for me to attempt to
influence to my way of thinking any man who doesn’t
believe. All I ask is that a closer and more conscien-
tious study be made of this art.

Get the book on Jiu-Jitsu, by M. Ohashi, of Tokio,
which is published by Richard K. Fox, the price of
which is ten cents. It shows a preliminary course of
training, as well as many practical holds. Get yourself
in shape and practice them. Then look my lessons

Government officially recognize it, and engage instruc-

tors for the cadets at Annapolis and West Point.

That point alone ought to be quite enough to convince |

the most skeptical.

I shall be glad to answer any questions on the subject

if they are addressed to me at the PoLIce GAZETTE
office.

K, fait

POLICE GAZETTE ATHLETES.

[WITH PHOTO. ]

On the back page of this issue will be found a photo-
graph of two young men, which is well worth consider-
ation. They are the St. Lawrence Brothers, of 161
Manchester street, Fall River, Mass,

Before tue POLICE GazETTE inaugurated its physical
cultare contest, they had never paid any particular at-

tention to athletics, and were like any average young

men, The contest and the publication of the photo

graphs of athletes fired them with ambition to develop |

muscles, and they started in. They took their lessons
from this paper, and to-day they have a fine act in
vaudeville, and they are now in a position where they
can command a good salary.

There could be no better endorsement as to the value

| Of the series of articles which have appeared on this

over and try them. After that I am ready to engage |

in an argument with you.

Iam not a combat man in the full sense of the word,
but [ have given exhibitions all over the country which
have been eminently successful in demonstrating what

a& man who knows Jiu-Jitsu thorougialy can really do.

| Gazette.

I have shown boxers how they could be defeated, no

matter what their mode of attack was; any of these

men could have easily beaten me it they had landed

one of their blows fairly and squarely.
Jeffries could defeat James J. Corbett, the author of
the Book on Boxing, published by Richard K. Fox, in

one punch, but, if my memory serves me rightly, it |

took him twenty-three rounds at Coney Island on the
occasion of their first meeting to land that punch.
If jiu-jitsu is not what it is claimed to be, if it con-

PLATE NO. 10.

ARM TWIST AND TRIP, No. 1.—This is a sure fall, and
the position of the thumbs of the aggressor are shown

the above illustration. At the moment of

obtaining the hold the foot is thrown forward for a trip
and the victim is forced backwards to a fall, which is

He can exert no resistance unless it be at

the expense of a broken Arm. [Continued next week.|

tained as many weak spots as those who don’t know
anything about it claim it has, it could not have lasted

for thousands of years, nor would the United States

PICTURES OF THE CHAMPIONS

Combined with records, make the “Police
Gazette Sporting Annual” for 1905, illus
trated, a valuable book: it fits in the vest
pocket. Price 10 cents: postage 2 cents extra.

page, and what the St. Lawrence Brothers have done
other young men can do,
Start now, for there is money in muscles,

THE GREATEST BASEBALL
Series of Supplements ever published
willbe given away free with the Police

ter orderin advance,

ASHLEY AND CONNOLLY DRAW.

George Ashley, of Fall River, and Larry Connolly, of
South Boston, went twelve rounds to a draw before the
Young Men’s Social and Athletic Club, Brockton,
Mass., on April 25.
nolly did what little leading was done, but after that
Ashley got in much of the time. Inthetenth it looked
as though Ashiey would win before the finish. Con-
nolly was knocked down in that round, and although

| he quickly came to his feet he looked and acted pretty

tired.
The decision of a draw was a popular one, although

| had Ashley not gota hard one at the opening of the
| last round and had he been able to lead the procession
| earlier, the award should have gone to him,

| the bout in the third.

Whilhe Glover, of South Boston, and Dave Marks, of
Fall River, were to have gone six rounds, but Glover
was putting it all over Marks, and the referee stopped
Hayward Briggs, of Whiteman

| and Willie Riley, of South Boston, went six rounds to

a draw.

JOHNSON TOO GOOD FOR JEFFORDS—

Jack Johnson, who recently lost the decision to

| Marvin Hart, met Jim Jeflords, of California, in the

windup at the Knickerbocker A. C., Philadelphia, on
April 25, but up until the fourth round be gave no indi-

cation that he regarded the stuntin hand very serious- |

ly. Inthe second round, for instance, he dropped Jef-

fords with a short joit to the chin, and while the referee |

was industriously engaged in clocking off the seconds,
Johnson leaned over the ropes and engaged in con-
versation with one of the spectators.

It was not until the fourth round that he showed any
disposition to extend himself, and then it was all over.
Jeffords made a swing with his right and it landed
around Johnson's jaw. The smile which had illumin-
ated Johnson’s face all through the bout vanished, and
then Jeffords was in trouble. Johnson stopped his
phony tactics and let out a few links. He swung his
left viciously into Jeffords’ body. There was a lot of
heft behind the punch, and Jeflords showed a disposi-
tion to hug. Afterthe breakaway it was evident that
Jeflords was willing to apologize for his indiscretion.
He boxed very coyly.

Not so with Johnson. He waded in and before the
spectators realized what had happened he shifted and
planted his left in Jeffords’ works,and the latter went
down and out. Johnson made it clear that there is
nobody in this vicinity who has any business with him,
He simply stalled with Jeffords.

In the semi-windup Jackson ‘and Mississippi evened
up things at the finish.

The fixhting record of Jack Johnson will be found in

the “Police Gazette Sporting Annual” for 1905. Price
10 cents; postage 2 cents extra.
PHILA. JACK O’BRIEN WHIPPED.

Philadelphia Jack O'Brien lost to Hugo Kelly, of
Chicago, on April 2, in a ten-round bout at 158 pounds.
The match was under the auspices of the Indianapolis
(Ind.) A. C., before one of the largest crowds ever
drawn to the Auditorium by such a contest.

While it was not a clean fight, Kelly earned the de-
cision fairly by earnest, steady fighting and a perfect
willingness to carry the gameto any corner. His work
in the last four rounds overcame O'Brien's slight ad-
vantage gained by shifty tactics early in the fight. The
decision met with the approval of the crowd, Referee
Ryan said that he gave the fight to Kelly because at
no stage of the game did O’Brien show a great willing-
ness to fight, and at the last hung on and clinched to
avoid punishment. After the decision, when O’Brien
made a protest to the referee, he was compelled to
hang on to keep his feet and had to be assisted from
the ring.

In the early rounds O’Brien gained a slight advan-
tage by keeping out of Kelly’s reach, and landing
single blows almost at will, After the fifth round he
was visibly tired, asa result of hard work, and Kelly

The first one is out with No. |
Bet- |

During the first five rounds Con- |

POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY 7

had no difficulty in following his man and landin,
heavy jolte with such rapidity that he had ©’ Brien ail
but out when the bell ended the contest

During the last five rounds ©’ Brien met all of Kelly's
rushes with a clinch,and hung on persistently until
dragged away from Kelly by the referes Kelly was
practically unmarked, while O' Brien's face was marked
and he wus bleeding at the eve and mouth

Danny Donovan, of Boston, was knocked out in the

second round of the sixth semi-windup, by George

JOE McGINNITY.

| The Famous Pitcher of the New York Nationals
who is relied upon to do Herculean Work to
again Win the Pennant for the Empire City.

Koerner, of this city.
advantage in weight.

The fighting records of Kelly and O'Brien will be
found in the “Police Gazette Sporting Annual" for 1905,
Price 10 cents; postage 2 cents extra.

Koerner had fully ten pounds

CARDIFF WAS A CHOPPING BLOCK,

No decision was rendered in the tight between Kid
Feltman and Jack Cardifi, before the Eureka A. C., at
Reading, Pa., on April 25, but Feltman made a chop-
ping block out of Cardiff. He is a welterweight and

| out of Feltman’s class, but the latter was clearly the
larger man's superior. Young Sharkey and Jack Ash-
ton, of Philadelphia, fought an eight-round prelimin
ary with honors about even.

THE POLICE GAZETTE IN IRELAND.

A great deal can be said 'n a few words, and that isa
bappy faculty the Irish seem to have cultivated. Here
is an instance which comes to this office on a postal
card from Waterford, Ireland:—“I think your paper is
far ahead of any on this side—it can’t be beaten.

“JAMES P, WALSH.”

Our Halftone Photos.

“Jerry,’’a 28-pound pit bull, owned by T.
F. Brady, 71 East Third street Dunkirk, N. Y., is the
winner of nine important battles. One was with Wil-
liam Pembroke’s dog, Squidgom. at Buffalo, for $3,000;
another with Dan Donovan's Jack. He has been
fighting for three years and never lost « battle.

They know how to play basketball at Fort
Meade, 8S. D., and the team of Troop E, Sixth U.S,
Cavalry, is one of the best. The players, as shown on
another page, are: Top row—Shaffer, left forward;
Mason, manager; Boesch, right forward. Bottom—
Shipes, right guard; Downey, centre, and Richards, left
guard,

J. H. Scott, whois the chief of the fire de-
partment at Palm Beach, Fla., graduated to his present
position from the Jacksonville Fire Department. He
was a member of No. 5 during the great conflagration
in that city. He has charge of all the great hotel prop-
erties at the beach, and is conceded to be a most valuable
official.

Frank Rose, whose right name is Ruzicka,
the champion wrestier and strong man, of Bohemia, is
now in this country. He beat Rooney, the Chicago
‘ gripman, in 18 minutes, although handicapped by 70

pounds. He defeated Jack Collins,the champion of

Montana, in 8 minutes, 12 seconds. Ile has only been

beaten once, and that by Lurich, who claims to have a

decision over Hackenschmidt. He is 26 years old,

weighs 180 pounds, and stands 5 feet, 64, inches. He
meusures 1744 inches round the neck; chest, 4634; waist,

defeated by aman of his class. Heisa most remarkable }

lifter, and with both hands lifts upward of 276 pounds,
With one hand 183 pounds, with extended hand, 165
pounds. He has been in training for the last nine
years—since his seventeenth year. Heisready to meet
any man in the world, bar none.

AUTOMOBILE RECORDS
Are not overlooked in the “Police Gazette
Sporting Annual” for 1905; illustrated: the
best book on the market to-day. Price LO
cents, postage 2 cents extra.

IN STAMPS

et mem

a at de
Ne gees red

Pye

inatetee dae

POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

HERE ARE BEAUTY AND MUSCLE.
ATHLETIC MEMBERS OF THE FAMOUS VIENNESE TROUPE OF AERIALISTS WHO DO A DARING
ACT WITH THE BARNUM AND BAILEY CIRCUS.

A SENSATIONAL ACT IN THE ARENA.
THE GREAT LECUSSANS, WHOSE SOMERSAULTS AND LEAPINGS WHILE THE COACH AND FOUR ARE
IN MOTION HAVE MADE A HIT WITH THE BARNUM AND BAILEY SHOW.

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

i a PERFORMING AN ANCIENT HINDOO RITE.

FLOATING THE BODIES OF THE DEAD ON THE GANGES, BENARES, INDIA, WHICH IS SUPPOSED TO
HELP THEM HEAVENWARD, AND THEN BURNING ON FUNERAL PYRES.

JUST AS A LITTLE WARNING.

AN EXECUTIONER OF CANTON, CHINA, AFTER LOPPING OFF THE HEAD OF A _ CRIMINAL, LABELS
IT. AND HANGS IT UP AS AN EXAMPLE TO WRONGDOERS.

BATTLING NELSON —

—TO AVOID FIGHTING CHAMPION jJOE GANS—

DRAWS COLOR LINE

Bob Fitzsimmons Believes That He Gan Fight as Well as
Ever and Makes a Match with Mike Schreck.

CHARLEY MITCHELL LAUGHS AT JOHN L.’S CHALLENGE

Will Help Him to Get a Piece of Money, but Fight ?”--Amateur Boxing
in New York---George Dixon in Hard Luck---Gossip.

NOTHER bomb was thrown
into the colored camp the other day,
when no less a star in the pugilistic
constellation than Battling Nelson,
announced that he would never again
meet a black man ina ring en-
counter; of course, this presumable

slight was intended for Joe Gans, and the supposition
is that the Battier figures bim to be a pretty hard
proposition, too hard, in fact, to involve his reputation
on the outcome of a “go."’ This interesting bit of in
formation cropped out as the result of Joe Macias’
effort to induce the Nelson person to go to Philadelphia
and meet three men of his own choosing, In a series of
six-round bouts. Macias offered Nelson $5,000 for three
contests. Nelson, in accepting, asked that the names
of his prospective opponents be sent him, and Joe
Gans, Willie Fitzgerald, Willie Lewis, Kid Herman,
Adam Ryan and Harry Lewis were named,

Nelson wired back that any white man would do, but
he drew tbe color line. Macias then named Willie
Lewis, Willie Fitzgerald and either Kid Herman or
Adam Ryan gs the men, Nelson accepted them.

The first contest will probably be held on Monday
night, May 15, with Fitzgerald or Willie Lewis as the
Dane’s opponent, and the others on the Monday nights
following.

Another victim for Bob Fitzsimmons has
been found in the person of Mike Schreck, of Cincin
nati, who has agreed to fight the former champion
twenty rounds in San Francisco the first week in July.
The match was made the other day in Chicago, Charlies
Easig was made the stakeholder of the contest and each
man placed $1,000 in his hands as an earnest of his
signature. The men agree to box at catchweights with
five-ounce gloves, the only stipulation being that the
contest must be at least twenty rounds, with San Fran
cisco clubs being given the preference as bidders. Both
men agree not to engage in a championship contest of
any kind prior to their meeting.

Fitzsimmons signed for himself, and Billy Hogan,
manager of Sehreck, signed for the German boxer, al-
though the latter was present at the meeting. Schreck
recently knocked out George Gardiner in Salt Lake
City and gained a name for himself by doing this, al-
though shrewd Judges of boxing have figured for some
time that Gardiner was about done as a first-class
fighter.

Fitz said after signing the articles that be thought he
could solve the Schreck puzzle easily and in short order.

Charley Mitchell is inclined to laugh when.
ever he is asked about John L,. Sullivan's recent chal-
lenge to fight him twenty rounds for a side bet of $5,000.
“Why, said Mitchell witha smile, when a POLICE
GAZETTE representative in

’Frisco interviewed him, |

“Sullivan can’t go twenty rounds, and [ dare say he

can't walk around a ring for twenty rounds without
falling down.’ Which about sizes up the situation.
Mitchell says, however, that if Sullivan wants to raise
a few dollars he (Mitchell) would be ever ready to help
him getastake by boxing with him, But when the
old fellow talks about fighting, he can only look upon
the matter as a joke.

Itonly shows the difference between Mitchell and
Sullivan. A few years ago, Mitchell was hounded tn
every partof the land by the triends of Sullivan and
every obstacle possible placed in his path, Says Otto
Floto, in commenting upon the situation: ‘This same
Sullivan could have stopped itall, Instead, he cheered
them on and was, in fact, the ringleader himself,
Mitchell comes forward again, as he has always done,
and offers his services free of c
money for the mao who made his former stays in this
country anything but pleasant.

arge to get a little |

Now |

“You can judge for yourself which of the pair was the |

sbrewdest. Sullivan is down and out and broke, Mit-
chell is worth close to $1,000,000, all of which he earned
himself, True. he did not get this vast sum from the
fighting game, but the fighting guve him bis
reputation which made it possible for him to roli up
the sheck les,

**Mitchell bas one of the best paying music balls in
London; he is «a big wholesaler of champagnes, and
has the agencies for Grent Britain for several well pay-
ing lines of merchandise. Young Peter Robinson, the
dry goods king, of that country. is his friend, and many
a sweet investment falls to his lot, owing to that friend-
Ship.

“Did Sullivan ever earn a dollar outside of the ring
and the stage? Noton your life. Outside of these two
vocations he is as helpless as a baby so fur as money
making is concerned. That is the diflerence between
the two men, and some day this country will wake up
to the fact that Charley Mitchell is one of the best fel-
lows in the world, and the
ever had while visiting England.”

game

best friend an American

Strange as it seems the devotees of boxing
in New York City are not wildly enthusmstic over the
Frawley bill which wi!l vive amateurs the right to en-
cage in boxing contests. Although it does not offer
much in the way of sport forthe lovers of good hard

fighting, the measure is the entering wedge, and
many special matches between “amateurs” who will
quickly develop will likely figure as the tempting at-
tractions which the athletic clubs wil furnish The

bill limita the length of a contest to fiftee® minutes and

the same men can compete only once in twenty-four |

hours,

This is to prevent a match between “amateurs’’ with
a giudge for fifteen minutes, and after a brief rest have
a fifteen minutes additional assault. Under the old
order of things, before the Horton law, the writer sat
alongside Mayor Grant in the New York Athletic Club
gymnasium, witnessing a special contest between two
lightweight “amateurs."’ Denny Butler, the noted
swimmer, now on the police force in this city, was
master of ceremonies. He announced that the men
would box five rounds. and If at the end of the fifth
round the referee was unable to arrive ata decision he
would order five additional rounds, and so on without
limit. The fight resulted in a knockout at the end ot
the thirteenth round. Thus the members and guests
of New York’s leading athletic club had witnessed a
finish fight under the guise of a limited-round contest.
Should the Frawley bill become a law the fifteen

minutes of boxing is apt to be divided up, either in four |

three-minute rounds, with a minute’s rest between
rounds, or six two-minute rounds, with thirty seconds
rest between rounds. The latter would make a whirl-
wind go replete with action, and would give the
Gothamites something to rave over.

If Tommy Ryan could not get Philadelphia
Jack O'Brien into the ring with him, he at least en
joyed, the other night, the satisfaction of seeing his
protege, Hugo Kelly, take a little of the conceit out of
the Philadelphian. The bout took place in Milwaukee,
and was an exciting affair for ten rounds, at the con-
clusion of which Kelly was adjudged the winner.

RICHARD SCHULTZ.
He issues a Defi to any 145-pound Wrestler

in the Country (See Challenge Column).

liberate fighter and a remarkably clever boxer, the
former being Kelly and the latter the much touted
coming middleweight champion, O’Brien. Kelly suc-
ceeded in taking much of the aspirations out of O' Brien
and the Chicago man 1s now heralded as the one
will wear the middleweight crown

who

within year

BICYCLING RECORDS
Which are authentic area feature in the
“Police Gazette Sporting Annual” for 1905:
illustrated. Mailed to your address for 10
cents: postage 2 cents extra.

Kelly never broke ground once during the thirty
minutes of fast boxing, while O’Brien often was backed
against the ropes and repeatedly clinched to avoid
punishment. Ile used rough tactics repeatedly, shov-
ing his elbow into Kelly's throat and butting with his
shoulder. In the last round he hugged Kelly like a
| meeting between long lost brothers, and this saved him
from a more decisive defeat. Kelly waded into O’ Brien
in the tenth round and soon had the Philadelphian on
dizzy street, but the much advertised ring general went

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

BLACKBURN
IS A COMER

into clinch after clinch and held on persistently od None of the Lightweights Are Anxious

he récuperated part of his strength. His face and body
showed the effects of the hard battle, while Kelly was
unmarked save a slight discoloration of the right eye.

As & pastmaster in cleverness O'Brien has no equal,
but his jabs, hooks and uppercuts lacked the necessary
steam tedo much damage to Kelly. He feinted and
uppercut, then booked his right and left to Kelly's
head, but the game Italian kept boring in and meeting
the clever O’ Brien.

There was not an idle moment in the bout, unless it
was when O'Brien clinched so desperately that Kelly
could not indulge in infighting. But in most of the
clinches Kelly's close range work and infighting worried
O'Brien perceptibly.

Reference to George Dixon in another
column reminds me of the unfortunute predicament
which confronts that greatest of ali little pugilists in
England. Although he has won many thousands of
dollars in the ring during the years that he has been
engaged in fighting he is broke and unable to get
enough money to get back to this country

cently arrived here from abroad, is the authority for
this statement.
which Dixon had in England, which was with Cockey
Cohen, Dixon only received $60 for his end. Moran
further states Dixon said he would be only too willing
to get back to America, but that he did not have
enough money to buy his passage.

It wasn’t much of a stunt for Jack John-
s0n, the negro heavyweight champion, to knock out
Jim Jeflords, in Philadelphia, the other night. A lot of
| Other fighters have accomplished the same feat, but
| not more easily than the big black man did. Swing.
ing his left arm in along upward curve and with the
full weight of his body behind the blow, he landed
| Squarely on Jeffords’ solar plexus, and the white boxer
| went down and out thirty seconds before time was up

| for the end of the fourth round.

Jeflords rolled over on bis back and Referee Hyland
who saw that it was not necessary to go through the
motions of a count, helped to carry Jim to his corner,
where it was several minutes before he had revived
sufficiently to leave the ring.

Speaking of Johnson, a lot of scandal has cropped up

| since his fight with Marvin Hart, of Louisville, in

| margin.

which the latter was awarded the decision on a close
It has been freely asserted that the fight was
a fake, and that Johnson purposely lost to Hart to facili
tate the latter getting on a match with Jeffries. John-
son has done nothing to cover up the Job, if Job there
was, but on the contrary, has tried to enhance that idea,

| and only the other day intimated that he ‘“pulled”’ to
It was a meeting of a hard-hitting, aggressive and de- |

| break fast.”’

the Louisville fighter, saying that the latter “was a
mutt, and that he could lick him every morning before
In reply, Hart said:

“Thatcoon has enough yellow in him to paint the
City Hall. It cropped out in bis fight with me so plain-
ly that his own seconds noticed it. If Johnson thinks
he could lick me every morning before his chews, I
doubt whether he would ever eat another ‘poke chop.’

| Johnson isa fancy boxer, but when he gets stung he

is strictly a ‘tin-canner and staller.’
another negro.”

I'll never fight

The following letter explains itself:
Frederick St., PORT-OF-SPAIN,
Trinidad, B. W. T.

Dear Sir: T have much pleasure to assert that your

“Sporting Annual” for the year 1905, apart from it being

| enthusiast,

the best of its kind, is certainly an encyclopedia of
games, and should be in the hands of every sporting
Yours cordially,
ARTHUR JESHEA,

This is a sample of the letters received daily from
Australia, Eurupe, South Africa, India and other re-
mote places, complimenting the PoLice GAZETTE for
its energy and enterprise in putting before the public
such a valuable book asthe “Sporting Annual.’”’ The
littie volume is a compendium of all the information
which should be in the possession of up-to-date sport-
ing men. It is devoted to no particular branch of sport,
but covers in amore or less extensive character, box-
ing, baseball, athletic and aquatic sport of all kinds,
racing and harness records, weight-lifting and records
of allthe prominent fighters now before the public,
whom they have fought, how many rounds and the re-
sult of each fight. In the handsof professional betting
men the little book is invaluable, for it settles all kinds
of disputes and can be relied upon to end every sport-
ing argument. Its cost is trifling, 10 cents and a stamp

Owen Moran, the English bantamweight, who re- |

Moran says that in the last fight |

| & furore.

For Any of His Game.

A negro of promising quality who is cutting quite a
figure in lightweight pugilistic circles is Jack Black-
burn, whose extreme cleverness and ability to hit a
knockout biow with one punch has caused nearly all
the lightwe ghts of the country to avoid meeting him
inthe ring. Hew the first American boxer to come
out flatfooted and agree to test his skill and general.
ship against jiu-jitsu, about which there has been sue

aoe
ees 3 aw

JACK BLACKBURN,

He has driven champion Joe Gans to the
woods, and Eddie Hanlon, Young Corbett, Jimmy
Britt, Willie Fitzgerald, Battling Nelson and other
lightweights of lesser ability have practically confessed
they do not wantany of his game. Blackburn made

| thesame offer to all—133 pounds ringside, or weigh in at

3o0r6 P. M.—but tbey either bad lame shoulders or
were too busy in other directions.

For the reason that the coffee colored Kid from
Indianapolis has fought his way gradually from the
bottom until he is now within striking distance of the
lightweight goal will cause the devotees of the sport to
demand that he receive recognition. When little George
Dixon commenced his championship aspirations fifteen
years ago the mild-mannered, modest mulatto met with
considerable opposition from ring patrons. The ban-
tam and featherweight classes up to that time had not
been invaded by the negro. Dixon went down the line,
and beat every man he was asked to meet. There was
no bluster. His first real championship fight was with
Cal McCarthy, and was declared a draw after seventy
rounds. The men had been four hours and forty min
utes in the ring, and some of the spectators on that
memorable night in February, inthe Boston Club, were
almost as tired as the boxers. Dixon met McCarthy

| one year later, and beat him decisively in twenty-two

rounds, For twelve years he was the unbeaten cham-
pion of the world, and in all those vears was a credit to
the ring, despite his color.

Blackburn possesses many of the characteristics of
Dixon. He is modest, unassuming, rarely quibbles
over conditions and is determined to prove that he is
the best lightweight in this country, if not in the world.
Who will dispute his right? Gans says no, while all
the rest offer excuses too flimsy for consideration.
When the Indianapolis lightweight first came East his
work, which was of the finished Order, did not please
the Philadelphia crowds, When he began to let out a
link of his punching ability, then all other aspirants
took fright. His decisive victory over Fighting Joe
Allen recently, the punishment he administered to
Grim when they met and his victories over scores of

| lightweights, stamp him as one of the most dangerous

to cover postage, and when I tell you that 50,000 of them

have already been sold to POLICE GAZETTE readers, its
value may be readily determined.

SAM C, AUSTIN.

A LATE CHALLENGE.

Jack O’Rourke, who claims the championship at

steeple climbing, was a caller at the POLICE CAZETTE

office, and posted $100 to meet any one in a steeple

climbing contest: W. Perkins, of 895 Fqurth avenue,
Brooklyn, preferre!. O'Rourke can be found at Forest
Park South, Richmond Hill, N. Y.

SULLIVAN STOPS DOUGLAS.

Battered to pieces, Fred Douglas, of Savannah, was
| Staggering about the ring completely at the mercy of
Tommy Sullivan, of Lawrence, in the seventh round
of their fight before the Douglas A. C., Boston, on
April 28, when Referee Bill Crowley stopped the mill
and awarded the decision to Sullivan,

Douglas did his best to

fight at long range, but the
Lawrence boy kept boring in, ripping in right and left
to the body with pile-driving force. In the fifth, in the
midst of a furious exchange, Sullivan put Douglas
down forthe count with a short right arm jolt to the
jaw. Douglas got up and mixed it for a while, but he
was very weak, and the gong saved him,

In the next two rounds he took terrible punishment

on the stomach and short ribs. When he came out for

the seventh a left hook to the stomach sent him to the |

floor. He got up quickly and met & straight rizht tothe
He went down for

| the third time when Referee Crowley stopped the fight.

heart that sent him down again.

men in his class in the ring to-day.

WRESTLER PARR A VICTOR.

Jim Parr Donal’ McMillan, of Buflalo,
in a wrestling match at the State Armory, Schenectady,
N. Y., on April 28, by getting two straight falls.

NO GLORY FOR
Rube Smith, of Denver, easily beat
of New York, in the fourth round of scheduled ten-
round contest before the Democratic Club, Denver,
Col., on April 28. MecPartland was repeatedly knocked

defeated

M’PARTLAND.

Kid McPartland,
tal

down in the second and the third rounds, but responded

gamely until he was put out in the early part of the
fourth round from a right to the jaw.

FARRELL HAD BEST OF HENRY.
Jack

Kid
bard rounds at
outfought

Farrell, of Wilmington, and
Darby, Pa., fought six
Del., April 29.
Henry falling and c.inching to avoid punishment in
every round.

The Wilmington knockdowns
and would have put out Henry had he stood up.
Jack Murphy, of Philadelphia, knocked out
Carroll, of Philade'phia, in the

Henry, of
Wilmington,
Furrel!

on his opponent,

man scored several

Young

second round witha

solar plexus blow.

PUGILISTIC RECORDS
Which you can bet on are the **Police
Gazette Annual” 1905; illus-
trated. Getacopy now. Price 10 cents: post-

age 2 cents extra.

Sporting for

A GRAND SERIES OF SUPPLEMENTS---THE STARS OF BASEBALL---COMMENCES WITH ISSUE OUT MAY 25

—WE ANSWER INTRICATE QUESTIONS—

FOR GAZETTE READERS

lf You Wish to Know Anything About Pugilism, Athletics,
Yachting, Racing or Trotting, Ask Us.

DON’T HESITATE TO SEND A LETTER OF INQUIRY.

ooo

We Like to Air Our Knowledge and Are Always Pleased to Give You Accurate
Information to Settle Various Wagers.

ONE INQUIRER, Anselmo, Neb.—
Is champion wrestier Tom Jenkins
blind in either eye? Did Jenkins
and Gotch ever wrestle in Whatcom,

Wush.? In your judgment would
. John L, Sullivan in his day and

prime stand any show to win with
James J. Jeffries of to-<lay? Give me the different
weights in prize fighting ?....1. Yes. 2. Believe so. 3.
middle, 156 and heavy all over 156,

J. S., Milwaukee, Wis.—Is Buddy Ryan the
welterweight champion ? Could in your opinion I! art

DAVE PEAKE.

The Chippewa Indian Boxer who has turned his
Attention from the Ring to the Stage, but
whose Defi to Men in his Class Holds Good.

beat Fitzsimmons or Corbett ?
the fight between Corbett and Jackson ?..... 1. Title in
dispute. 2, No. 3. About an even thing,

F. K., Elizabeth, N. J.—Did John L. Sullivan ever
fight a negro ?..... He never did. He was matched with
George Godfrey, but they never fought.

W. H., Pittsburg, Pa.—Give me the address of
Parson Davies ?....Care of Crescent Billiard Hall, New
Orleans, La. We do not answer queries by mail.

N. L. D., Denver, Col. —How old was John L. Sulli-
van when he fought Paddy Ryan? What isthe date
of his birth ?......1. Twenty-four years old. 2. Oct. 15,

R. F., East Chicago, Ind.—A bets me that Jem
Mace was only 5 feet, 8) inchesin height, and I bet he
was 5 leet, 9 inches or more ?...... He is not quite 5 feet,
9 inches in height,

J. L. J., Brooklyn, N. Y.—In which city is the most
sport going at the present time ? lilow can you ask
such a question, living as you presumably do, within
the environments of the greatest city on the map?

A. M., Idaho.—Is there a Hebrew who is champion
of the world in either of the following classes:
light, bantam, feather or welterweight ?
ality 1s Joe Choynski ? 1. No. 2.

G. H., New Orleans, La.—In what States are the
following named colleges: Yale, Princeton, Harvard
and Cambridge ? Yale, Connécticut; Princeton, New
Jersey; Harvard is at Cambridge, Mass.; there
Cambrifge university in America.

M. W., U. S. S. Monongahela.—I would like to
find out which is the best way to referee a bag punch-
ing contest for a championship and aside bet? Who
is the champion bag puncher of the world? Is Belle
Gordon the lady champion bag puncher of the world ?

Who had the better of

Heavy,
What nation-
He isa Hebrew.

is no

1. There are no rules, use your judgment. 2. Harry

Seeback, Dave Miers and Arthur Keeley. 3. Yes, Belle
Gordon is the best lady champion,

THE SCIENCE OF BOXING BY JAMES J. CORBETT, EXPERTS SAY, “IS THE BES

J. E. D.—May be in Schuylkill County rules,

F. C., Epiphany, S. D.—Show what youcan doand
get a manager.

T. W., Shelburn, Ind.—Did Richard
fight Jack O’Brien, of Philadelphia ? No.

M.L., South Amboy, N. J.—What is Mike Leon-
ard’s address ?......Care of New York Clipper.

R. B., Thompsonville, Il.—Did McGinnity strike
out twenty-seven men in one game last fall ?...... Yes,

E. M., Louisville, Ky.—A hydrometer is an in-
strument for determining the specitic gravity of liquids,

J. R. K., Washington, D. C.—Tne address of
Matty Matthews is 245 Fifty-fourth St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

S. J. S., Fenton, lowa.—Give me the height and
weight of W. F. Cody ? ..... Six feet, one inch; about 185
pounds,

N. F., Hynes, lowa.—Send your title and 50 cents to
the Librarian of Congress, Washington, D. C., and ask
for a copyright.

J. G., Union, S. C.—How many rounds did James
J. Corbett tight Peter Jackson? At what weight did
Corbett fight Fitzsimmons? What is his present age ?

1. Sixty-one rounds. 2. He weighed about 173
pounds, 3. Thirty-nine years,

T. R., Fort Myers, Fla.—lHow long has Robert
Fitzsimmons been light heavyweight champion ?
Do electric shocks have any good effects on the human
body ? Who isthe best tumbler in the United States ?
Who is the best baseball pitcher in the United States ?
A says James J. Jeffries smokes; B says he does not
use tobacco in any form? How old is Tom Jenkins ?
Is James J. Jeffries married ? Who is bantam cham-
pion of the world ?......1. Since Nov. 25, 1963, when he
defeated Geo, Gardner for that title. 2, Yes, it is used
beneficially in many ailments. 3. Cannot answer. 4.
Matthewson is so considered. 5. He smokes in moder-
ation. 6. About 40 years. 7. Yes, 8 Jem Bowker, of
England.

Cc. D. B., Harrisburg, Pa.—During a game of base-
ball; A bets that the man at the bat will make a hit; B
bets he will not. The batter knocks a grounder out to
shortstop, who picka it up, throws it to first base and
puts the runner out; who gets the money? Now in
rendering your decision on this question please bear in
mind that there was nothing said about what kind of a
hit he was to make, and A claims the money inasmuch
as the batter made a fair hit, asdescribed by J. J. Me-
Graw, on page 97 of his Book of Rules for 1905. B
claims that a hit in baseball talk means that a batter
must hit the ball safe and make his base before it is a
hit, and he was betting under that impression, although
he said nothing at the time he accepted the bet. A
claims, however, that he is technically wrong, for
when a batter hits the ball safe and makes his base it is
then a base hit, as described by McGraw on page 110;
and tie fact that newspapers or others abbreviate the
expression or term by dropping the word base from in
front of the word bit for their own particular con-
venience, expecting others to take for granted what they
mean, does not make it right or proper? .....B wins. A
hit in betting or in the phraseology of the game is a
“safe hit.’”’ A’s claim is foolish.

c. P. D., Gary, W. Va.--A runner on second starts
for third just as the pitcher delivers the ball, and the
batter holds out his hand allowing the ball to bit it and
roll away from the catcher. The umpire allows the
runner, who moved from second to third, to remain
there, but calls the batter out? There is a runner on
third base, and a man at bat, who is in the box to bat
right handed, and the next batter up, who was near
there, steps into the left hand batters’ box to ask about
a decision that has just been made, The pitcher, in-
stead of holding the ball until be was removed from the
box, delivered same, which the catcher did not attempt
to field, allowing it to pass him and the runner on third
came home, The umpire called it a ball, as it was not
fairly delivered, and allowed the run to score, explain-
ing that it was a passed ball that the catcher did not
attempt to field. and the player in the left hand batters’
box did not interfere in any way? The batter knocks
a ground ball between first and second, which is fielded
by the second baseman, who throws the ball to first,
which is covered by the first baseman and he catches
the throw, or in other words, holds the ball just a
moment before the runner reaches first, who bumps
into the first baseman, both men falling, and the first
baseman dropped the ball. The umpire called the run-
ner out ? 1. The batter was out for interterence, and
the runner should have been sent back
The runner should have been sent back, and neitnera
ball or strike called. There is no rule for any such
play, but the umpire should bave used common sense,
Both the pitcher and catcher were interfered with, and
the offender could have been put out of the game, as it
was obviously an unfair advantage taken. The easiest
way out of the difficulty was for the umpire to make
the pitch null and void and begin all overagain. 3. It
was up to the umpire whether the collision was inten-
tional on the part of the batter. If he thought so, the
batter was out. If the ball and runner got to the base
at the same time,and the collision unavoidable. the
batter should have been decided safe.

BASEBALL RECORDS

You will find them in
Gazette Sporting Annual’ for
illustrated, together with other rec-
ords. Price 10 cents; postage 2 cents extra,

Burge ever

to second, 2,

Interest everyone.
the “Police

CHALLENGES

(The challenge editor will be pleased to
publish all legitimate challenges in all sports,
such as boxing, wrestling, skating, bowling,
swimming, bicycling, walking,
jumping, etc., etc.)

running,

Andy Smith, lightweight wrestler, of Balti-
more, Md., 1s after a match.

Dick Green, of Chicago, challenges any
boxer in the lightweight division.

Harry Lortz, 12 Clinton atreet, Brooklyn,
is ready to meet any bantam boxer in the world.

“IT am a juggling banjoist, and challenge
anyone to meet me.’’—John Duncan, Louisville, Ky.

Any good boxer looking for work will do
well to address Florrie Barnett, POLICE GAZETTE office.

Dick Hyland, the crack 122-pound boxer of
the Pacific Coast, is willing to meet any boy at his
weight,

Charley Sieger, the Hoboken (N.J.
weight boxer will
division.

accommodate any man in his

Toby Cummins, of Burlington, Wis., would

like to meet Young Keily, in fact any 100-pound boxer
can bave a match.

Harry Seeback still has a forfeit of a hun-
dred dollars posted at this office
puncher in the world.

Richard Schultz, of 334 West Main street,
Newark, Ohio,
wrestler in the country.

Owners of pit bulls looking for fight can be

accommodated by addressing W. O'Malley, 622 Winter
avenue, East St. Louis. Ill.

to meet any bag

ues a challenge to any 145-pound

Jack Lee, the West Side lightweight buxer,
wants to get On amatch with anyone in his class, A
stiff side bet can be put up.

Collar and elbow wrestlers (130 pounds)
can get on a match fora juicy side bet, by addressing
F. T. Donohue, Wyaconda, Mo,

Daniel Mack, a barber of 188 Alley 15, of
Wheeling, W. Va., issues a challenge to any tonsorial-
ist to meet him in a buck dancing contest,

The basketball team of Troop E, Sixth U.S,
Cavairy, of Fort Meade, 8. D., will play any team at
the post for money, marbles or chalk. Charles T,
Shaffer.

Arizona bag punchers who would like to
exhibit their ability, can do so by addressing Gus Good-
win, of Kingman, who claims the championship of
the State. °

Any contortionist or dislocationist who
would like to meet in a public contest will be willingly
accommodated by J. E. Gordon, 19 Rambo street.
Bridgeport, Pa,

George Gardiner writes to the Police Ga-
zette saying that he would like to meet Mike Schreck
again in a twenty-round bout, and will lef Schreck
name the conditions,

Frank Rallo, of 1814 Broadway, Brooklyn,
N. Y., is but 16 years of age, yetan expert tonsoralist,
and would like to compete with any boy of his age in
a shaving and hair-cutting contest.

George McFadden was a caller at the

POLICE GAZETTE Office recently, and stated that he
was anxious to meet Gus Gardne again whom he

All Our Business Transactions are Confidential.

Now is the time to Save a Diamond and Win a Heart.
The best way to save money and buy a Diamond
is by the famous Loftis Credit System. You can pay for
your Diamond while wearing it. Its value increases 20
*rcent per year. Write today for our Diamond Catalox,
000 Lllustrations—#o that you can select the Diamond y ou
want. We will send it at once, ali charges paid. If you
like it, pay one fifth of the price and keep it, sending the

to us In eight equal monthly payments

[OF TI S Diamond Cutters

and Mfg. Jewelers
BROS &4CO. &R

MYSTICO
LINIMENT CURES

SPRAINS AND STRAINS

iT 1S SO DIFFERENT.
IT PENETRATES.

For Sale by all Druggists, or
THE AMERICAN SELLING COMPANY
No. 19 Liberty St., New York City.

LARGE FREE SAMPLE, 10c. STAMPS.

MENNEN’S
BORATED TALCUM

TOILET

POWDER
for After Shaving.

Insist that your barber uses Mennen's
Toilet Powder after he shaves you. Itts
Antiseptic, and will prevent any of the
many skin diseases ofien«ontracted,

A positive relief for Chapped hands,
Chafing, and ali afflictions of the skin. Removes all odor
of perspiration, Get Mennen’s—the origival. Sold evéry-
where, or mailed for cents. Sample Free.

GERHARD MENNEN CO., Newark, N, J.

quickly and permanently cured
by ACROSA, non-irritating
lotion; a special remedy for the
purpose. By mail $1.00 For par-
ticulars address The Manlyn Co.
72 Trinity Place, N.Y. Dept.G

of skill. Charles Borhaupt, manager, POLICE GAZETTE
office, New York City.

“Tecan do a shave and hair-cut in fifteen
minutes, and [ issue a defy to any barber to pn eet me

in a contest. '—C, Bisulca, 582 Third avenue, New York. *

Any banjo player inthe United States army
who would like to test his skill can be accommodated
by private David Ballard, Company H, 26th Infantry,
Fort Ringgold, Texas, ,

Kid Beekner, better known as the Wayne

Kid, of Fort Wayne, Ind., would like to show Benny
Yanger, Tommy Mowatt, Kid Herman and Ecdie

WwW. W. COOK.

A Prominent Saloonkeeper and Sporting Man of Goldfield, Col., and his Three Fine

Bull Terriers.

claims was awarded an unjust decision over him at ,

Detroit, Mich.

Middleweight backlifters looking for a con-

test can be accommodated by Warren Travis, holder of
the PoLICE GAZETTE $1,000 championship medal.

On behalf of Rufe Turner, I challenge any
man inthe country from 130 to 133 pounds, Jimmy
sritt or Jabez White preferred.—Lon Ross, manager.

The

cannon balls on the back of his neck and juggles many

remarkable performer who catches

heavy objects, would like to meet some one in this line

He will accept Matches at Weight for any or all of Them.

Hanlon what he can do. If they can beat him they

can get $500 of his money.

Bicycle riders (middle distance, can be ac-
McLean, of Chel-
When answering send photographs to the

commodated with a match by Hugh
sea, Mass.

POLICE GAZETTE Office.

RELIABLE RECORDS
Tell the story of the “Police Gazette Sport-
ing Annual’ for 1905; illustrated, They are
all there in compact form for you. Price 10
cents; postage 2 cents extra.

-»_-QNLY 13 CENTS IN STAMPS

~ eer
a ee

RE SS ee

poate tec inrne: Seo —

JERRY. MOREZ.

CHAMPION 28-POUND DOG, WINNER OF NINE BATTLES, ONE OF WHICH A WELL-BRED BULL TERRIER, WHO IS OWNED
WAS FOR $3,000; OWNED BY TT. F. BRADY, OF DUNKIRK, N., Y. BY G. MOREZ, 23 CANAL ST., LYONS, N. Y.

ANDY SMITH. DICK HYLAND. DICK GREEN.

LIGHT WEIGHT WRESTLER OF BALTIMORE, THE CLEVER 122-POUND BOXER OF SAN A CHICAGO BOXER WHO WILL MEET
WHO ISSUES A CHALLENGE, FRANCISCO, WITH A GOOD RECORD. ANY IN THE LIGHTWEIGHT CLASS.

SANDY. JESSIE.

A PAIR OF THOROUGHBRED PIT BULLDOGS, OWNED BY LOUIS JOHNSONBECK, PROPRIETOR OF THE SENATE HOTEL,
NORTH RAILROAD STREET, SYRACUSE, N. Y., AND A PROMINENT DOG FANCIER,

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

MARGARET HOYT.

A FOOTLIGHT FAVORITE WHOSE SUPERB FIGURE AND EXCEPTIONAL TALENT HAVE
WON HER MANY ADMIRERS FROM COAST TO COAST.

A POPULAR

SALOONIST |:

the evering

Wise Bartenders will Get Good Tips |

in This Column.

Louls
swell saloon at 2700 Laharpe street, New Orleans, La.

M. Becker is the proprietor of a

Mr. Becker is popular with the sporting fraternity of
the Crescent City, in fact throughout the South. He
has many years experience as a saloonist, and serves
the best that money can buy

WANT A GOLD MEDAL?

All you have todo is to send in a new recipe fora

drink—or as many as you like, and the best three get
the medals,

If you are at all ambitious, you certainly want to win
nu medal, and if you are at all energetic you certainly
will try.

It isn't every day you bavena chance like this, and if
you are at all wise you will take full advantage of it.

Ilere are the prizes:

FIRST PRIZE—875.00 Gold Medal.
SECOND PRIZE—850.00 Gold Medal,
THIRD PRIZE—826.00 Gold Medal.

And asimple little recipe for a new drink will win
them for you,

Five minutes’ effort,

Could anything be easier?

Why don’t you take a chance?

There isn’t a bartender in the business who hasn’ta
chance to get a medal if he will only try for one

You are not asked to pay anything to enter this com-
petition.

AMERICAN CONFETTI.
(By W. P. Spellman, Spokane, Wash.)
Take a pony. One-third Creme de Menthe;
one-third Apricot brandy: one-sixth pure cream;
Six drops of Claret,

PEACH BLOSSOM,
(By J. H. Thomas, David City, Neb.)

Half a mixing glass crushed ice;
bar spoons sugar; one-half jigger Raspberry
syrup; one Jigger gin; Juice of half a lemon;
white of one egg: fill glass with rich milk, shake
well and strain into fizz glass.

two anda half

ALLIANCE COCKTAIL.
(By John T. Scanlan, Bradford, Pa.)

Take mixing glass half full of ice: one-half Jig-
ger whiskey; one-half jigger Claret wine: two
dashes Angostura; two spoons powdered sugar:
shake well, strain in cocktail glass and serve
with squeeze of lemon peel on top.

ST. LOUIS NIGHTCAP.,
(By Charles Smith, St. Louis, Mo.)

Fill glass half full with cracked ice: one-half
spoon syrup; one pony Whiskey: one-third pony
Vermouth; one-third pony Benedictine:
third pony Ginseng; mix well,
with lemon peel.

Strain and serve

LOUISIANA PUNCH,
(By F. Green, St. Lous, Mo.)

Take a mixing glass; muddle halfa lime anda
quarter lemonwith a tablespoon of powdered
sugar; fill half full of ice;
jiager St. Croix rum; one-quarter jigger Maras-
chino; a few.sprigs of mint, sliced pineapple and
sliced orange. Now shake well, putin a large
punch alass, fill full of ice, a little claret on top,
serve with straws.

ace

CHAMPIONSHIPS.

guthered at Saengerbund Hall,

20. to Witness the

WRESTLING
A large crowd
April
competitive championship bouts of the
thre

Brook-
matches in the
Ath-
rian

Ivn, on fire!

Amateur

letic Union, under nuspices of the Norweg

rurn Society. Seven classes were decided and the win

PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN YOU ARE WRITING TO, OR DOING

| Pustiongs
| announced.

| forward to the floor.

| fourth,
| although

ners were as follows: 10}-pound class, J. Hein, Boys’
(lub; 115-pound class, (ius Bowers, National Turn
Society; 125-pound class, George Mehnert, National

Turn Verein; 135-pound class, I. Niflot, Pastime A. C.;

j-pound class, RK. Tisney, St. George A. C.; 158-pound
class, William Schaefer, National Turn Verein, and
heavyweight, 4. Ilansen, Norwegian Turn Society.

The Nifle:-Bradshaw contest was the best struggle of

Bradshaw is the National champion at
135 pounds, and it was expected that
creck, An extra bout of three
Niflot forced to the floor and
by doing all the work enasi'y got the decision.

he would beat the
minutes was
Bradsbaw

JOHN J. McGRAW’S

OFFICIAL
@ BASEBALL @
GUIDE for 1905

LOGAN WAS WEAK.
Jimmy Walsh, the Boston, Mass., bantam. demon-

strated that he was the superior of Phil Logun, the
crack Philadelphia boxer, atthe Washington Sporting
Club, in the Quaker City, on May 1, before a large

crowd, Logan had agreed to make 122 pounds ring-
side, and the eflort to make the weight reduced the boy
too much and he was thin and pale.
but, notwithstanding this, he put up a great contest,
and at different stages of the game he made Walsh ex-
tend himeelf for all he was worth. In the first round,
with straight left hand Jabs, Logan had Walsh’s nose
bleeding. Waleh had the best of the first part of the
recond round, but Just Lefore the bell rang Phil stabbed
Jimmy with a hard let, Walsh knocked Phil down in
tue third, and once he stepped aside and Phil pitched

Hie was also weak,

Phil went weak inthis round and
Walsh had all the best of the
fifth Logan was bleeding again,

his legs were wobbly

and in the

No. 10 Fox's Athletic Library.

NOW READY.

IT SHOWS HOW ~ SPIT BALL

NEW

PITC H THE

Phil looked to be regaining his strength.

Logan came back strong in the last round and he forced

| matters, bringing the blood from Walsh’s nose,

lionaire. Everyone has the same chance. Send
25 cents for pictures, plan, etc. NEW
LIFE CHEMICAL COMPANY, 127 East
| Twenty-third Street, New York City. |

one- |

put in three-quarters |

| Judges detected some

They

mixed it up bard, and the round was one of the best of |

the contest. |

RECORDS SMASHED.

Two new world’s records and sensational perform-
ances in neurly every of the events marked the
University cf Pennsylvania's tenth annual relay carni-
val on Franklin Field, Philadelphia, on April 29.

In the four mile relay race for the championship of
America, the University of Michigan won for the third
time in succession, setting anew mark of 18 minutes,
25 3.5 seconds, an average of 4:36 for each mile. The
second world mark to be bettered was in the discus
throw, which again went to Michigan. Garrelis hurled
the missile 135 feet, 44 Inch. Although this beats the
world’s record it was not allowed to stand, because the
faulty construction in the discus
which the Michigan man used

one

MISCEL LANEOUS.

MINIATURE RAILROAD Co.
407 BROADWAY, NEW YORK CITY, N. Y.

GOLM MEDAL
SPECIAL.

For Parks, Summer Resorts, etc.
Hauling Capacity, 25 Tons.
Earning $1,500 In six days.

With proper care will last 25 yrs,

CAGNEY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS

GRAND PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL RECEIVED
AT WORLD’S FAIR, 8T. LOUIS.

DON'T WAIT |

Get
A widowed mother
recent subway crash at 23d
street. March 7th, but, like thousands of others,
be carried no insurance, She would have re-
ceived $1,000 bad her son carriei one of our $1.00
accident Policies, Agents wanted. Write
for turther particulars.

THE REGISTRY CO. OF AMERICA,

56-58 LIBERTY ST.,NEW YORK.

until the next subway or elevated collision.
an accident Policy at once.
lost her son in the

CONFESSIONS OF AN ACTRESS.

Showing how a plain but merry woman managed
hundreds of sweethearts, and after having a livel
time for ten years settled down and married a mil-

PAID FOR RARE 1853 QU ARTERS |
dollars; big prices paid for hundreds of
other dates. Don’t pay $1 fora book, but send 10c. for 6
months’ trial subscription. Our department of Rare
Coins tells prices, where to sell, with honest dealers’
addresses. You may tind a coin worth $1,000. 10 cents
for 6 months, or 20 cents per year. CLIFTON
MONTHLY, Dept. 120, Waterville, Maine.

12 Corn Killing P sesters.

CORNO removes corns.

Builds new skin. A heaven'y relief
CORNO» REMOVES CORNS

SEND QUARTER NOW. No cure,
money back. Sample 2 cent stamp.
Best Supply Co., Sole Mfrs. |
Dept. 83, Joliet, Ls.
Also Drug and Shoe Stores.
OVE CHARM fcssrnctzre
love you with true &
everlasting love. Safe, sure and harmless, forold

\ or young. Acts quickly. Fall secret l0c. (silver).
SUPPLY (0., No. 596 Austin Sta. Chicage

RUGGISTS SUNDRIES up-to-date SPECIAL TIES;
enclose 2c, stamp for reply. box 723, N. Y. City.

SALOON SUPPLIES.

gives a high, glowing,dur-

18 not on!
4 to all metals, but the polish

able polis

, itwillshine on! It benefits all metals, minerals o
wood while cleaning them. 25c 1 lb box. For sale by drug

And Has Chapters on

HOW TO PLAY THE GAME, ETC., ETC.

AUL

/, JOHN J.

OFFICIAL

BASE

| GUIDE

“hi GRAW

orric«

RULES FOR

IAT

It contains the

1905 SCHEDULES

For the

American and National Leagues.

Also the

OFFICIAL RULES

As well as the
STANDING OF ALL
THE MINOR LEAGUES,
PERCENTAGES, Etc., Ete.

gists and dealers. Send 2c stamp for sample to George
William Hoffman, 295 E. Washington St.,lndianspolis, Lod.

Finely Illustrated
With Portraits of the
Leading Players.

Price 10 Gents ;

Published by RICHARD K. FOX,
Franklin Square, New York City.

Postage
4 cents extra.

PERSONAL.
read two ways and bound

LOVE LETTERS to suit, 10¢c. postpaid , 6 Se.

12L0 cret Photos, 10 cents postpaid; Rare Collection of 4
pictures of a couple before and after marriage. with a mass
of other interesting matter,1C cents postpaid,or everythin
described in this advertisement for 25 cents postpaid.
JOHN H. HARRIS ,Dept.P.C.168 Hamlin Ave.Chicago, Ill.

EAUTIFUL, young Southern belle, worth

in Casu $20,000; large stock farm; 200 acres of tobacco
land, will marry imme liately. and present husband with
substantial present on wedding day. Address MRS.
BELMONT, P44 Hampden Building, Chicago.

MARRY WEALTH BEAUTY, Neziss:

FREE, Pay when married. Entirely new plan. Send no
money for par’s, Select Club, Bot. 23, Tekonsha, Mich.
best published.

ee PAPER FREE Send no money

for photos with big list. (Many
rich). (sealed >. Standard Cor. Club, 108 Avers Ave. , Chieago, Lil.

our CUPIDS LOVE CHARM

s ano hee Wie one + u i a Guat on, voueg =

“a old, quick, lacting, sure. Never ry D og hum
Package with full directions lle, 3 for 2%. BO 4, ‘4, HURLevvitie. N.Yv
10, 000 ARE ANXIOUS TO CET MARRIED

Many Rich. Big lists, pictures &

addresses FE REE. The PILOT, A2, 168 HMamiin Ave. +, Chicago
OUNG LADY, age 2%, handsome, worth $25,000
and will inberit 317.000 more, wants honorable hus

band. Address Mrs. W., 697 Fulton St., Chicago

= Y YOUNG WIDOW, attractive,
pleasant, alone in the world and lonely, wisbes to
marry. Address ‘KING, 1046 George St., Ganenee.

PAPER free. The best in existence.
Eastern Agency B, Bridgeport, Conn,

Highest Award, Chicago World's Fair,
1893, Louisiana Purchase Ex position, 1904.

| MARRIAGI

FALOVE 12: O87 ig rond.t ut TWO ware care eile
Three ® 10 4 SUPPLY CO Sta HIC AC

THE POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

PROPRIETARY ARTICLES.
MEN AND WOMEN,

Use Big G for unnatural
discharges,inflammations,
irritations or ulcerations
of mucous membranes,

Painless, and not astrin-

gent or poisonous,

Sold by Druggists,
or sent in plain wrapper,
by express, prepaid, for
= _Circuiar sent on request,

NEVER KNOWN TOFAIL

Tarrant’s Extract of Cubebs and Copaiba,
the tasteless, quick and thorough cure for Gon-
orrhea, Gleet, Whites, ete. Used successfully
for over 60 years; causes no stricture. At druggists
$1.00, or by mail in sealed package from The
Tarrant Co.,44 Hudson St.,New York City.

Standard remedy for Gleet,
Gonorrhea and Runnings

IN 48 HOURS. Cures Kid-

ney and Bladder Troubles.

_ CHICH ESTER: s ‘ENGLIS

PENNYROVAL PILLS,

Safe. Alwavs reliable. Ladies, ask Dru

for CHICH ESTER’s E NeLISH. an
no other. Send 4e, (stamps) for Particulars,
Testimonials and “Relief for Ladies,”
in letter, by return mall.

cHsne fadlcos hem PE EO pe

GONORRHEA oF GLEET

Discharges stopped by Citrosandalene Capsules in 48
hours. Don't waste time experimenting. Try them at our
expense, Money refunded if they fail, Guaranteed cure in
5 days. By mail$1. Citrosandalene Co., 66 B’way. N. Y.

SPORTING.

BUY FROM THE ORIGINATORS.

The “Revolving Drop Case.” The new one unlike
all others; price $40. The Improved Camel Back
Spindle Controlled, but no Gaff; price $15, The Chicago
Twisted Wire Spindle. The only one that can he
“re 4 with, We guarantee this outfit; price $30.
The W orld’ 8 Fair Striker, complete case and layout $25.
The new “Chicago Drop Case;”’ no -needle; no Route
Blow of in center; price only $30. Check Cop for
Poxer games, The best out; $3 per bottle. Montana
Edge Work for Stud Poker, soid by us only; $1.25 per

deck. Roulette Wheel complete, 1000 Harris Checks,
$185. Send for new cut price catalogue free. H. C.
EV ANS & CO., 125 Clark Street, Chicago.

=, DICE AND CARDS

Beamed e°7 "enen rr

cards 81.00. Metal Roulette
Wheels, best made, Spindles,
ete. Greatest Catalogue ever
Wranen on ambling FREE BARR &
coO., 56 FIFTH AVENUE, Chicago. Ill.

Dice Perfect Work, new Transpar-

ent work, marked Curds, finest Blockout

ink made, new Holdouts, etc., new practice!
Sporting Goods Catalogue free. J. F.
KNAUTH & CO., Eau Claire, Wis.
TRANS Loaded Crap Dice 83.00 Pair,
White Miss-outs #1, Passers #1,

Cards 75c., Ink $1.50, First Flops and Box

82, Shiner ®2.50, Magnet #25. New cat. free.
Sample deck, stamped, marked back, cards

DIGE C e . Sid ‘ks

Marked Bicycle Cards, #4,

D. Smythe Co., Newark, Mo.

A. GOVE, 1 120 Littleton Ave., Newark, N. J.
with key, 360. Dice, inks, ete, Catalog free,

Marked Cards, etc.

CARDS,

OINTERS HOW TO WIR
JAS. JOHNSON &GO., Austin, III. a
Catalogue tree, Six Deck

SPORT= Goons, DICE
—= ROULETTE WHEELS.
rt work on Dice, Cards and anything in line.

ALOGUE FREE. Kernan Mfg. Co., (inc.) Dept. 25, Chicage

UB ROOM 60008 Roulette wheels,
tables, iayouts,.

ete. Finest checks in U.S. Send for list.
HARKIS & 40.. 852 Gniv ersity Piace. New York.
DOKER players, you can beat any game. With
our new device you can read the backs of any cards

as easily asthe faces. Price 3), with full instructions.
GARDINER NOVELTY CcO., GARDINER, ME.

CRAP DICE

ICE, Cards, Roulette, Faro, Block Out Ink and Sport-
ing Goods of every description, Catalogue free.
Will & Finck, 57 Third Street, San Francisco, Cal.

LOCK OUT INK. Sampletree. Cards. Dice.
JOHN F. SKINNER, 137}, 5th 8t., Sam Francisco, Cal.

that get the money 82.
Marked cards $1, Catalogue tree.
Hamilton Mfg. Co... Newark, Mo.

SLOT MACHINES.

SLOT MACHINES

CUT PRICES! CUT PRICES!

SLOT TALKING MACHINES. . . 835.00
PICTURE MACHINES ...... 18.50

Souvenir postal card machine will earn you $4.00 daily.
Slot Weighing Scales. Punching Machines, etc.

ROCERS MFC. CO.

West 23rd Street, New Work City.

OUR VERY LATEST

Electric Shock with Electrical Attach-
ment. Can you hold the light lit? It
lights at 600, The very latest for parks,
etc. Good money machine, Souvenir
Postal Card Machines, $7.50 up. Souve-
nir Cards, $3.00 per 1000, Electric Light
Blowers complete $25.00. We also have
a large supply of legitimate and gaming
(money) tachines at bargain prices.
Send for list. Sloan Novelty & Mfg.
Co., 932 N. 9th St., Philade!phia.

lot Machine Ste reoscopic
logue, Acme Pub. House, 162

P ictures from Life.
N. Union St.

Cata-
» Chicago, Ill.

hirty slot machines, cheap. good runners,
For particulars Milwaukee Vending Co

guaranteed
» Milwaukee

BASEBALL FANS.

With Police Gazette No. 1450, 0ut May
25, willcommencea series of Fine Half-
tone Supplements of the most Prominent
Players. They are good and well worth
framing

SINESS WITH ADVERTISERS

AN ATHLETIC
TONSORIALIST

lf You Have a Good Photograph |
Yourself Send it Along.

J. Davy Williams is the senior member of
Williams Brothers, owners of a handsomely furnished
tonsorial parlor at Reynoldsville, Pa. Their place is con-
ceded to be the finest equipped one in the State. Mr.
Williams is a lover of all kinds of sport, and especially
interested in baseball.

ied

KRALL’S HUGGING SAVED HIM.

Charley Knox, of Altoona, and George Krall, of
Philadelphia, met before the Bellevue A. C., at Altoona,
Pa., on April 26, in a six-round bout, the latter staying
the limit only because of his persistency in clinging to
Knox,

The semi-windup was a grueling mill between Kid
Ryall, of Chicago, and Young Nelson, of Denver, the
lads going six rounds to even honors,

TWIN SULLIVAN HAS THE PUNCH.

After three rounds of very fast fighting Mike (Twin)
Sullivan, of Cambridge, knocked out Tommy Coch-
rane, Of Philadelphia, with a right solar plexus punch
after two minutes of fighting in the fourth round of
their scheduled twelve-round bout at the Eastern A. C.,
Portland, Me., on April 26.

It was a fight that brought the spectators to their
feet, and Sullivan’s great experience and ring general-
ship won it amid a wild demonstration.

HERMAN AND LEWIS DRAW.

Kid Herman, of Chicago, went on off the reel against
Harry Lewis, of Philadelphia, and putup a remarkaLle
fifteen-round battle to a draw atthe Fourth Regiment
Armory before the Eureka A. C., on April 28.

It was one of the hottest fights ever seen in that city,
and there were many in the large crowd who thought
that the Western lad should have had the verdict be- |
cause of his cleaner work at all times.

Lewis was ten pounds lighter than Herman and was
ureatly cheered for his fine showing.

Kid Sullivan, of Washington, who was to have fought
Lewis, sprained his ankle white training and Herman |
was Called in at the last moment.

Herman floored Lewis in the eighth and was himself
sent down in the twelfth. Many times were the spec-
tutors up on their chairs in their excitement.

The first preliminary was a draw after three rounds
between Young Franklin and Kid Lucas. The second
resulted in a knockout of Burch Taylor by Kid Holly
inthe third. Both were black. ‘

Kid Miller was put out by Harry Seiger early in the
second round of the third bout, and Jack Potter quit in
the first round to Young Larry Temple in the fourth
bout,

Jobnny Fisher got the verdict at the end of the third
round trom Frank Mitchell, and the sextet of prelim-
insries was nicely rounded out by a fast three-round
draw between Joe Robinson and Harry Scholl, white
buntanos.,

COLE WAS THERE.

The windup at the Keystone A. C., Philadelphia, Pa.,
on April 29, was a fiercely fought battle. The contestants
were George Cole, of Trenton, N. J., and Walter John-
son, of Boston. The latter outweighed Cole by many
pounds. He has a punch, which fact he demonstrated
in the second round by dropping Cole for the full count.

Cole recuperated quickly, and from there on he took
the upper band, his cleverness being very apparent.
Cole had Johnson very shaky in the fifth round, and
the bell must have been a very welcome relief to him,

Cole continued his aggressive tactics in the sixth,
cutting Johnson up badly and dropping him. The
Boston man wisely took the count, and when he came
up he was bleeding bacly and was allin when the bell

ended the hostilities. Cole was a winner.

QUAKER CITY BATTLES.

At the National A. C., Philadelphia, on April 29,
Mauro Herrera was not in the race from start to finish
ina six-round encounter with Adam Ryan, of Chicago.

In the preliminary bouts bested Kid
bested Kid
of Boston, bested

Tommy Love
Cursey in a hard bout.

laylor, of Chicago.

Danny Dougherty
Young Donohue,
Jim Bonner, of Summit Hill, Pa.

punished Young Loughrey that the

Griff Jones so badly

bout was stopped
in the fourth round by the reteree, i

1He POLICE GAZETTE, NEW YORK CITY

ANY MAN suffering from Atrophy. Varicocele or
any form of weakness will find a

quick, sure and lasting cure in Dr. Yousout's Cele-
brated Turkish Ointment. It is a harmless out-
ward application, acts directly on the nerves and
muscies,and gives strength and vitality to old and
young men. A small box mailed sealed in a plain
wrapper for 2c. Large box $1.00. Three boxes (full
treatment) $250. Safe delivery aranteed.
> er write. A. FRANKLIN REMEDY
0., 519 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK.

LADIES. *:sareunco®
Booklet free. BR. LafRaNCo, Philadelphia, Pa.

A TRUE HAIR RENEWER
TYRKISH ELIXIR restores gray streaked

cently: ; harmless, does not in stlker or Sonen,
gives perfectly natura! Light Brows Dart Krown
or Black, Promotes wth, removes dandruff,

beaatifies the yd kes men & women look 10
yee ees ge by mall for 25c. .3 for 50c.
BON Tout to, Sta. A, BOSTON , Mass.

wW recommend our ‘‘232"' Blue Steel Razor,
$1.75 each, postpaid. Boulevard Barbers’
a A o., 232 Bo Boul., Chicago.

AGENTS WANTED.

Bend us your address

al ay ure: and we will show you

— fe make $3 aday

bsolutely sure; we

furnish the ys and teach yen free, you work in

the locality where you live. Send us your address and we will

explain the business fully, remember we guarantee aclesr profit
Spe ay’ | day’s work absolutely sure. rite at once

ROYAL UFACTURING CO., Bex 864, Vetroit, Mich.

OFFICIAL, ATHLETIC
AND SPORTING BOOKS

No. 1—PROF. -ATTILA’ Ss FIVE.
POUND DUMB-BELL EXERCISES

2—PROF. ITTMANN’S
PHYSICAL CULTURE AND
BREATHING EXERCISES

No. 3—JOHN
McGRAW’S
BOOK ON
BASEBALL

No. 4—THE
OFFICIAL
BOOK OF
RULES FOR
ALL SPORTS

PHYSICAL
CULTURE
FOR WOMEN,
By Belle Gordon

No. 6—UNITED STATES
ARMY EXERCISES,
BY PRIVATE FRANK IDONE

NO. 7—ART OF CLUB SWINGING
BY GUS HILL AND TOM BURROWS.

NO. 8— THE SCIENCE OF
JIU-JITSU, BY M. OHASHI

PRICE 10 CENTS EACH

With 2 cents Each Extra for Postage,
with the exception of Nos, 3, 4 and 5,
the Postage on which is 4 Cents.

WHEN YOU GET THESE
YOU GET THE BEST

BOWERY LIFE

By Chuck Connors.
Tllustrated,
Postage 4c. extra.

Scientific Wrestling
by Geo. Bothner.
Postage 4 cts. extra.
Boxing, How to Train
Postage 3c. extra.
The Cocker’s (Cuide
Postage 2c. extra.

THE DOG PIT
Postage 2c. extra.

Hoffman House
Bartenders Guide
Postage 4c. extra.
BARBERS BOOK
OF RECIPES
Postage 2c. extra.

PRICE 25 CENTS EACH

ANY OF THE ABOVE WILL BE SENT TO YOUR ADDRESS

ON RECEIPT OF THE PRICF,

RICHARD K. FOX, Franklin Sq., NEW YORK.

Every Sufferer
FACT ONE-—It takes time to

tell whether you are permanently cured by a treat-
ment, or merely patched up for the present.

FACT TWO—The Cook Rem-

edy Co. is the only company or medical association
in existence that has been (treating Syphilis
long enough to know that its patients are cured to
Stay cured,

FACT THREE—The Cook
Remedy Co, has many patients who were cured by
its magic remedy eighteen years ago, who ure to-
day sound and well.

FACT FOUR — Many patients
that were cured by the Cook Remedy Co. eighteen
years ago now have children grown to manhood
= gemanhess in perfect health and without a

emish.

The Cook Remedy Co. solicit the most
obstinate cases and challenge the world for a case
they cannotcure. This disease has always baffled
the skill of the most eminent physicians. For
many yearsthe Cook Remedy Co. have made a
specialty of treating this disease, and they have
unlimited capital behind their unconditional
guaranty.

You can be treated at home for the same price
and with the same guaranty. With those who
prefer to go to Chicago the Cook Remedy Co. will
contract to cure them or pay railroad and hotel
bills and make no charge if tney fail to cure.

Syphilis becins usually with a _ little
blister or sore, then swelling in the groins,a red
eruption breaks out on the body, sores and ulcers
apppear in the mouth, the throat becomes
ulcerated, the hair, eyebrows and lashes fall out,
and as the biood becomes more contaminated,

MEDICAL.

LOOD POISO

FACTS of Vital Importance to

FACT NIN E—<Good health is the most important thing in the world to any person.

ABOVE NINE FACTS ARE ABSOLUTELY UNDENIABLE.

WHY HESITATE ONE DAY IN BECINNING THIS WONDERFUL CURE ?

WRITE FOR FREE 100-PAGE BOOK TO

COOK REMEDY CO. “chicaco,u.s. a.

rom Blood Poison
FACT FIVE—The Cook Remedy

Co, is the largest and the only successtul company
in the world that makes the cure of Syphilis

a specialty.

FACT S$itX—Patients cured by
Cook Remedy Co. are constantly passing success-
fully the very rigid examinations of the most con-
servative life insurance compnnies, and are passing
the examinations tor admission to the army and
navy of the United States,

FACT SEVEN—If you take

Cook Remedy Co.'s weatment under their guer-
antee you are absolutely sure of a cure or your
money back.

ACT EIGHT — Every other
mene oO

treatment known to the medical pro-
fession gives but temporary relief.

copper-colored splotches and pustular eruptions
and sores appear upon different parts of the body,
and the poison even destroys the bones.

The Cook Remedy Co, has a specific for this
loathsome disease, and cures it even in its worst
forms. [tis a perfect antidote for the powerful
virus that pollutes the blood and penetrates to all
parts of the system. Unless you get this poison
out of your blood it will ruin you and bring dis-
grace and disease upon your children, for jt can be
transmitted from parent to child.

Write tor the Cook Remedy Co.'s free home
treatment book and learn all about Sypbilia,
If you want medical advice give a history of your
case, and their physicians will furnish all the infor-
mation you wish without any charge whatever.

Your salvation depends on Cook Remedy Co.,,
andon them alone. They will surely cure you,
No other method of treatment will cure you.

MEDICAL,

FREE TO MEN

The successful man of to-~lay
must have strong nerves, clear
brain, perfectly sound body, with
full energies, vital power and
vigorous manhood. We will
send to any sufferer of Lost
Manhood, nervous debility,
weak ness, lost memory, varico-
cele, night losses, insomnia, lost
vitality, neurasthenia, nervous
prostration, or otherwise ise im per-
fect, a free sample of a remedy
that will quickly restore to natu-
ral vigor. We earnestly ask you
to write to us at once, and on receipt of your letter we
will immediately mail pas a trial of our wonderful
remedies in a plain package.

LINCOLN CLINIC, 10 Lincoln Bldg., Detroit, Mich.

FREE VIGOR FOR MEN

Man Medicine cures weak men, Man Medicine gives
you back your man-might and power, Wesend the
proof without pay. Free. Absolutely free. It does tie
work—Man Medicine makes you right—responsive—
refreshed, Gives you repose without exhaustion; life im-
pulse without prostration. Send your name and where

ou want the test treatment event. You will receive it
tad at our cost—delivered in plain wrapper—free,

INTERSTATE REMEDY COMPANY,

676 Luck Building, . . . Detroit, Mich,

WEAK MEN!

I found in the Philippine Islandsa won-
derful and positive cure for failing man-
hood, impotency, emissions and wastin

drains. It restores vigor, potency an

strength to men atany age. In proof I
mail you, on request, sealed Free Treat-
ment. © cost or trouble. Write for it,
Letters to me are held sacredly private,
I guarantee a complete and certain cure,
' Dr. Pred'k Main, Lk.Bx. 671, Jackson, Mich

A POSITIVE CURE i

Without medicine—ALLAN

MEDICATED BOUGIES will cure thes ait

obstinate cases. Nonauseous doses. Pric-
$1.50. Sold by druggists. Send for circular

PERSIAN NERVE ESSENCE

RESTORES MANHOOD — Has cured thousands
of cases of Nervous Debility, Insomnia, Varicucele
and Atrophy. Clears the brain, strengthens the
circulaton,. makes digestion perfect, and imparts a
magnetic vigor to the whole being. All drains and
losses stopped permanently. $1.00 per box; 6 boxes, guar-
anteed to cure or refund money, $5.00. ‘Malled sealed.
Book free. Persian Med. Co., 936 Arch 8t. , Philadelphia, Pa

MEN it you are suffering from Atrophy

or your natural powers weakened, our

= Acme Method will restore you, without
drugs or electricity; Urethral Obstruction

and Varicocele permanently cured in one

to four weeks. 75,000 ple using this

treatment; not one fail

free book, sent sealed in plain envelope.

ACHE MFG. c o., 542 Barclay Bik., | Blk. , Denver, Col.

VIGORINE WILL DO FOR YOU

WHAT IT HAS DONE FOR THOUSANDS
OF OTHER WEAK MEN. A $2.00 box for
$1.00 and a guarantee to refund your dollar if not satis-

fied. Is it a fair offer? Try it. Particulars free
| GEO. YATES, Box 152, Jersey City, N. J.

| SAN-METHYLPERLS An°mc'cntne:

vention and treatment of Gonorrhea, Gleet,
ete. Price 50 cents. AMES & COMPANY,
534 EAST ATTH STREET, CHICAGO.
M E for which we paid @1. All drug- |

gists fill. Nofake. STAND- |

ARD FORMULA CO., SPRINGFIELD, MO.

RU IPTURE URED wre you WORE a nay

$4." oP PEIRS Br aa WESTBK OOK ME

Send stamp for 3 private receipts |

THE BEST OF ALL MAIL ORDER MEDIUMS FOR ADVERTISERS

BLOOD POISON CURED!

A Positive and Permenent Cure
Cueranteod in Every Case.
Felluro is Never Known, No
Matter How Long Standing
Tho Diceaso.

Sufferers from thia dreadful die
order know the injurious effects to
tho system that come from the
usual mercury and lodide of potash
treatment, and the distressing ey temps! alter results,

These are entirely avoided by the use of

STERLINC’S ROYAL REMEDY
This wonderful remedy, which contains no injurl-
ous drugs or mineral poisons, goes directly to the
root ofthe disorder, It drives the poisonous germ
from the system WAR restores it tochildhood's purity,
KS be paid for any case of

$500 D Sie ison that this rem-
edy willnotcure WARD i... rite fur FREE book-
jet, giving full information aboutthis great remedy,

THE JOHN STERLING ROYAL REMEDY CO.

DEPT. B. KANSAS CITY, MO,

MEN ONLY

CAC § Restores Manhood

onaat Banishes Atrophy,

Cures Impotency,

Varicocele and all weakness of man,
Cream is an outwardly applied sulve,
Has only to be gently rnbbed tn to benefit.
One application positively proves its value,
Makes weak men strong and strong men
i stronger. This is the original and only
Cactus Cream, and is sent to all parts of the
world, $1.00a box, Sealed sample 10c. silver.
PERRY PRO. CO., LYNBROOK, NEW YORK, v. 8. A.

YOUNG MEN!

For Gonorrhea and Gleet Pabst’s Otag Specific. It is
the ONLY medicine which will cure each and every case, NO
CASE known it has ever failed to cure, no matter how seri

ous or of how long standing. Results from its .00
use willastonish you. Itis absolutely safe, pre- oY

vents stricture, and can be taken without incon-

venience and detention from business. PRICE,

For sale by all reliable druggists, or sent prepaid by express,
plainly wrapped, on receipt of price, by

Circular mailed on request. Pabst Chemical Co. (Not lnc.)CHICAGO. 11.
ruin your manhood by

SINGLE ME secret habits. My new

Patented Electric Manhood Protector tnakes
it impossible; « sure habit breaker. Permanently cures
lost vitality, weakening drains. vericccele, etc. This
little invention is a Godsend to men and boys.

AND BOYS—Don't

No drucs. Notelt. NoC. 0. D. fraud. Book free,
ce _ sealed envelope. ALLEN G.
D, 320 16th Street, Denver, Col,

MEN LET US SEND YOU

FRE oe book on the celebrated Solvent Treatment,

ure. Write for |

_——. cure for Stricture, Enlarged Pros-

tate, Lost Vitality and Nervous Debility. —_ pain-
less and unfailing. Superior to any remedy in use.
| Don’t experiment, but write to-day for Free k and

| full particulars. By mail sealed.

CHERVIN MEDI-
CAL CO., Dept. K.,

61 Beekman St., New York.

One box of Juven Pills will tell a

story of marvelous results. They
es @ have more rejuvenating, vitaliz-
——<—_<___m_—=ss iy force than has ever before

been been offered. Restore lost vitality, strengthen
shattered nerves. By mail in a pee package on
receipt of this adv. and $1. Co., pro-
prictors Hood's Sarsaparilla, , F , Mass. 20
prsogees. For

FREE BOOK siz.:Sfv2

pages. 27 pictures, full descri WR Bs hte
effects and cure, sent sealed in plain wrapper. Dr.
Henderson, 112 W. 9th Street, Kansas City, Mo.

and Liquor Habit cured in 10
to 20 days. No pay till cured.
Write DR. §. L. STEPHENS CO.,
Dept. T. 3, Lebanon, Ohio.

LADIES My Regulator never fails. Rox FREE.
DR. F. MAY, Box 27 Bloomingten, LiL

On Chronic. Ner-
vous and Private

IS CONCEDED TO BE THE POLICE. GAZETTE

FRANK ROSE, THE CHAMPION WRESTLER OF BOHEMIA.

BEEKNER WHO WILL B X FOR A SIDE BET.

ST. LAWRENCE BROTHERS, PHYSICAL CULTURE MARVELS. FRANK HUSEMAN, A CLEVER WASHINGTON LIGHTWEIGHT.

A PAGE OF MODERN ATHLETES.
THE ONES IN LOWER LEFT CORNER GIVE THE GAZETTE CREDIT FOR THEIR DEVELOPMENT.

Supplement to the NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE, No. 1448, Saturday, | 9 i

RE a ge

aera

FRET T pO >

at he Dans te aoe
PS a NE eT er

r. ; Photographed especially for the Police Gazette by Newman. New York. An Interesting Exercise Next Week. 4
NECK HOLD AND KNEE JOL' INS JIU-JITSU. ;

This Shows a Sitmiple NiIovernent for Attack fronmr b3echinicl. After the Victim :
_¢ has been Thrown as he iss botnd to be the Neck is encircled with the
Kree Arm ana an Arm “EPwist is also tsecl. :

K,. Saito’s new book, Jiu-Jitsu Tricks, is No. ll of Fox's Athletic Library, Price 25 Cents, postage 4 cents extra. na


=== sim_national-police-gazette_1887-11-05_51_529 ===

Zane WS Sg Deg

e COPYRIGH? aN

mn, BYGUYW|ES

NLOF wast

Copyrighted for 1887 by RICHARD K. FOX, Proprietor POLICE GAZETTE PUBLISHING HOUSE, Franklin Square,pmNew York,

— TMT
meta (te

Hes

pS es

SHE TRIED TO CREMATE HIM.
AFTER SHOOTING DR. E. C. HARLAN FOR BETRAYING HER, HATTIE WOOLSTEEN SETS FIRE TO HIS BODY IN A

BARN NEAR LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA,

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEw YORK.

Peat ek Pearse os ’
ESTABLISHED 1846.

RICHARD K. FOX, - -

Franklin Square, N. Y.

THE WEEK ENDING

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1887.

FOR

-KILRAIN’S COLORS.

The fighting colors of Jake Kil-
rain, matched to fight Jem Smith,
of England, for the International
championship, the “Police Gazette’”’
Diamond Belt and $10,000, will
shortly be ready. Sporting men,
saloon-keepers and others, who de-
sire to purchase the champion’s
colors, can obtain them by forward-
ing $5.00 to the “Police Gazette”
office. On account of their-great
artistic value only alimited number
have been prepared. Ordersshould
be sent in emer

A VICTORY FOR COMMON SENSE IN IOWA.

By this time everybody knows and under-
stands who wants to be honest and means to be
square, that the PoLIcE GAZETTE is the people’s
illustrated weekly. It represents nothing but
lawful news, and its pictures are not only
accurate and artistic but morally irreproach-
able.

In the city of Des Moines, Iowa, reside two
fellows whose actions are a public scandal and
a disgrace to American civilization. One of
them is named Potts, and the other Pierce, and
itis safe to say of them that the record of Titus
Oates or of Jonathan Wild is fragrant reading
compared with their careers as spies, sneaks
and informers. These two men, for example,
while “operating” in behalf of Prohibition, have
committed outrages on sick and defenceless
women and children which, if perpetrated on
Americans outside of the United States, would
have spurred our government to declare war.
The worst and most infamous acts of British
tyranny in Ireland are deeds of gentleness com-
pared with the atrocious performances of these
two abhorred and detestable Iowans.

Some time ago Potts, acting in concert with a
little petty Jeffreys, Johnson by name, who
scandalizes law by acting as a justice, scared
and intimidated a newsdealer named Mose
Jacobs into surrendering his entire stock of
Pontice GAZETTES. At the same time one W. G.
Higiey, a newsdealer doing- business in the
Kirkwood, Des Moines, was not only arrested
for selling the PonicE GAzETTE, but his home
was searched without warrant or authority in a
manner which would have legally justified him
in shooting the invaders like the dogs that they
are,

In spite, however, of the conceited Pharisaical

malignity of ‘Titus Oates Potts and his “pal,” |.

Johnson, the Grand Jury, before whom Higley’s
case was sent, including such typical Americans
as Foreman Daniel Gerberich, T. W. Havens,
E. 8S. Sayre, James Crabtree, A. G. Nye, Peter
Ringgenberg and Ellis F. Randolph, threw out
the charge and indignantly ordered Mr. Higley’s
release. To those honest and courageous gen-
tlemen, for it requires a rare courage to oppose
malice and hypocrisy disguised in the garb of
religion and morality, every liberty-loving
American in Iowa ought to raise his hat.

But Titus Oates Potts and Jonathan Wild
Pierce were not abashed by their crushing de-
feat at the hands of the grand jury. Other men
would have either transferred their sneaking
energies elsewhere or else stolen in the middle
of a dark night to some neighboring duck pond,
and by a commendable act of suicide relieved
the State of Iowa of the odium of harboring
them. Instead, these two lineal descendants
of Judas Iseariot went out of town to Capitol
Park, a suburb of Des Moines, and obtaining a
search warrant (to which they had no earthly
right), raided the premises of a barber named
Reeler and seized his solitary copy of the
POLICE GAZETTE!

To sucha depth has the Pharisaism of Des
Moines deseended!

Now what.we want to say 1s this—and we
mean every word of what we say—unless the
action of the grand jury in the Higley case is
sustained and the “operations” of Titus Oates
Potts and Jonathan Wild Pierce promptly sup-

pressed, we will take bates to employ the same
doctrine of law, so-called, against the daily
papeets of Iowa as they allow to be used against
the PoLICE GAZETTE.

to put the daily press of Iowa on our side by
making a pretty effective demonstration of the
fact that they are just as much at the merey of
creatures like Potts and Pieree as w e are,

T his is what sporting men eal] “a straight
tip.” and our Iowa friends can bet their money
on it.

Editor and Proprietor.

POLICE GAZETTE PUBLISHING HOUSE,

| pered a pert, bright little face sitting beside her.
| makes, and I dare not take it from her.”
| and requested the amiable gentleman in the box office
| to change my seat.
It makes a good deal of |
difference whose ox is gored, and we guarantee |

| for illustrations of an article on gymnastic exercises

| on the part of her management to perpetuate her death

STAGE SKIMMINGS.

THE INDIFFERENCE of raneptiitelion companies to
the convenience of the public is indicated in the expe-
rience of two young ladies, members of the ‘‘Adonis”
company recently onthe road. Miss Leila Cavanagh |
and her companion were passengers on a through train
from Buffalo to Philadelphia to go over the Erie and
Phil: Sea and Reading railroads. .When nearing
Jamestown, N. Y., the conductor came to them with
directions ae they must change cars at that point for
the balance of their journey, They left the cars in a
pouring rain, and just as the train drew out the station
agent rushed up hurriedly saying there was a mistake,
thev should have remained where they were. Of course
it was too late to do anything but wait for twelve hours
for another train, being put to an expense withal for
the natural requirements of the day. The ladies were
indignant and inconvenienced, and felt as though some
redress should be given. When they finally reached
Homellsville they encountered the superintendent,
Henry 8S. Billings, of. the Mills Building, to whom they
poured forth their grievances, and who told them he
had already heard the particulars by mail and the con-
ductor was to blame. ‘“‘But what are you going to do?’
asked Miss Cavanagh, “I will give you a berth on the
sleeper teenight,” he replied. ‘‘What about our loss ?
we were to play to-night, what about our expenses to-
day ?” “Oh, we can’t do anything about that.” ‘‘Do
you live in Philadelphia?” was his next query. “Ido
not; I go there to play,” Miss Cavanagh answered,
“Oh, then it will save you to-night’s bozrd,” the super-
intendent said. ‘it is outrageous,” she continued.
“Well, there’s no use talking.” Mr. Billings spitefully
observed, “‘it’s like a drowned man, if he’s drowned
he’s drowned, and there is no help for it.””, *“‘Then you
should put on your tickets that any one is liable to
drowning on your road,” rejoined Miss Cavanagh. This
is all the satisfaction they could obtain.

Fanny Rice, of the Carleton company, is a Boston
girl, and after the manner of the girls of the hub of
**culchaw,” she affects quill pens and large penman-

ship. The
other eve-
ning a gen-
tleman
connectéd
with the
local press
sent an au-
tograph al-
bum back
on the
stage with
@ request
for the au-
tograph of Miss Rice. She was playing ‘““Nanon” at the
time, and in her artless manner said that she would be
happy to write her name, but she couldn’t do so without
a quill pen, and she couldn't possibly go to her hotel
and get one. Thenit occurred to her to send to the
property man and ask fora quill. That functionary
thought the lady was jesting, and he obligingly said he
would bring her a dozen, He was as good as his word,
for he brought her the big, white, live goose which is
used in *‘Nanon.” ‘Props’ is a handy man himself,
but his eyes fairly stuck out when Miss Rice coolly
plucked a feather from the tail of the goose, and then
with a knife deftly made her pen, and a moment later
her name graced a snowy page in the album.

HE I8 A PATRON OF THE DRAMA, is the United States
Marshal at Louisville. In a practical way and un-
mixed with any self-seeking, as became a modést man,
this official the other day furnished a triumphant ex-
ample of the esteem in which’ he holds the theatre. By
the operation of law the gentleman was made cus-
todian of the liberty of certain Kentuckians. True
bills had been found against them, and though the
proof was overwhelming the nature of the alleged
offense appealed with irresistible pathos to the right
feeling of the community. The prisoners were
in custody for making moonshine whisky. They
had been ‘arrested away up in thse ;mountains,
and there they were, in the city of ‘Bourbon
Belle” and Mary Anderson, pining in confinement,
guarded by many hirelings, cut off from the society of
friends, and all the while wanting to go to the theatre.
Artless children of the wild solitude! They loved the
drama, For years, and remote from the haunts of man,
they conducted a manufacturing business. They were
producers—hard toiling men in an industry that is
native to Kentucky soil. Small wonder then that the
large-hearted official should provide them with some
relaxation. The exciting ‘‘Ranch King” was to be seen
at a play-house, so the captive moonshiners were es-
corted to the performance. But the marshal didn’t
stop at that. He took the moonshiners’ fnends to the
theatre and all the witnesses, too, and in the party
there were exactly 400 men. The marshal paid for it
all out of his own pocket, and all over Kentucky his
fame rings as a gentleman, a scholar and a good judge
—of the drama.

I HAD A DELIGHTFUL EVENING of it at Wallack’s thea-
tre the other night. Ihad taken my seat comfortably
prepared to enjoy *“‘Mr. Grundy’s Mouse Trap’’—at
least prepared to try and do so—when a rather flashy,
large-sized woman pulled down the seat in front of me,
and then taking an air cushion from under her arm,
she blew it oat—apparently with some difficulty—
screwed it up and sat down. Presently, after the cur-
tain went up and everything was quiet in the house, I
became conscious of a very shrill whistle. Not loud
enough to disturb the house, but quite loud enough to
mar my enjoyment. This went on for some time when
suddenly my fat friend in front reached down, whisked
the cushion from under her and beyan to refillit with
air. This accomplished, she put it back in its place.
And the peculiar shrill little whistle began again. It
was all explained to my mind, the screw of the cushion
was not air tight. I stood it all through the first act—
during which period this performance was repeated
several times—with as much patience as possible. As
soon as thejcurtain went down I leaned forward and
addressed myself to the old lady, politely, and berged
her to be satisfied with the seat and to discard the
eushion. “It’s no use speaking to madam, sir,” whis-
“She
is quite deaf. She cannot hear the noise that cushion
I took my hat

The old lady I noticed sat through
the performance quite unconscious of the consterna-
tion her musical accompaniment was making among
her immediate neighbors,

Mrs. LANGTRY'’S RECENT PHOTOGRAPHS might be taken

for young women. There would seem to be an effort

in an acrobatic way.
slender and strong. At one point of the play she stands

scene 80 that posterity may know what the public doted

; on in the year 1887. One photograph represents the

Lily lying flat on her back on the floor with her heels
slightly elevated on the edge of the sofa, Her muscu-
lar hands have torn her dress open at the neck, and

| her famous head is twisted about in the fashion that
would cause Sorakichi to feel a pang of keen and Ori-
| entalenvy. But there is a girl in Mr. Daly’s company,

in New York, that is pushing Mrs. Langtry rather hard
Her name is Shannon, and she is

with her back to the audience and suddenly raises her-
self in the air and rolls over backward on a huge table,
and lies there talking to her father as flat and prostrate
as the bottom wheat cake on a cold plate on a chilly
December day.

WHAT IS THE SHOW business coming to? The latest
addition is Binns, the ex-hangman, who is “doing the
British provinces,”’ and reveals his art for the enter-
tainment of crowds who collect to see him perform the
final trick. The subject is a wax figure. The showman
first gives a biographical sketch of Binns, and then the
curtain is run up, revealing a scaffold with the regular
cross beam, and the subject standing on the drop,
&trapped hands and feet. A surpliced chaplain stands
on one hang and a uniformed jail governor on the
other; while the reporters watch the grim proceedings.
Binns, black bagin hand, steps forward, arranges the
rope, places the noose round the subject's neck, and
when the feeling of the spectators has been wrought to
an intense pitch, draws the bolt, and the wax figure
disappears into the pit beneath. Then Mr. Binns holds
a levee, during which the band plays, ‘‘Hark! I hear an
angel sing.”

CLARA MorRIs excessive and presumably unneces-
sary stage waits continue to be a source of justifiable
complaint with her audiences. On Monday night at
the Grand Opera House the curtain remained down
twenty-five minutes between Acts two and three and
twenty minutes between Acts three and four. These
delays are an annoyance to the public, which is begin-
ning to believe that there is no need of them. An ac-
tress who was with Miss Morris last season tells me
that the aggravating waits between the acts in her per-
formances are solely due to the whimsical moodst%tof the
star. If the trouble lies, as has been managerially given
forth for years past,in the direction of physical ail-
ment, Miss Morris has my sympathy, as well as her
spectators. If she is not strong enough to perform her
duties as other actresses are expected to do, it wouldsbe
far wiser for her to retire. She has sufficient means to
leave the stage comfortably.”

A SINGULAR ACCIDENT HAPPENED to Mr. Osmund
Tearle on the stage of Wallack’s recently. It was a
matter of dressing, or I should rather say, undressing,
which set the audience to tittering without the actor
having the remotest idea of what it was allabout. The
mistake was, of course, rectified as soon ashe got off
the stage from his “scene.” Precisely the same thing
happened to W. H. Crane on the second night of the
*‘Henrietta” at the Union Square, and what added to
the mortification of the actor was that he had to re-

r main in view of the audience for halfan hour. When

Crane heard of Tearle’s misfortune, he wrote him a
note accusing him of stealing some of his original busi-
ness, and requesting that, as a matter of professional
courtesy, Tearle should not do it again. There is no
danger. .

Mu, ABBEY HAS AN UNDERSTUDY for every part in
“The Mouse Trap,” and it isa partof the duty of the
ladies and gentlemen thus engaged to report every
evening at the stage door of Wallack’s theatre and sign
a book. The system is an excellent one, because if
carried out to the letter—and I understand it is—it be-
comes almost an impossibility for an audience to be
disappointed. Mr. J. W. Pigott, who happens to be en-
gaged at Wallack’s theatre, although out of the bill, is
one of those who have to sign the book as. understudy
for Charles Groves. That done,he rushes off to his cozy
little room at the Lotos Club and works on one of his
plays. I believe he does a good deal of this sort of work,
and does it well, although none of his plays have yet
been produced.

AN AMUSING ACCIDENT occurred to'Evans and Hoey of
“A Parlor Match” company, while they were leaving
St. Louis for Louisville last week. They had gone to
the Ohio and Mississippi railroad depot, but became so
busily en-
gaged in
talking to
an ac-
quaint-
ance that
the train
pulled out
and left
t he m*

They both

looked at

each other

smiled and then started at a dead run én the track.

Just as they reached the bridge which spans the river
running out from East St. Louis they meta hand-car.
This was their only salvation, and running up to the
boss Evans said: ‘‘Look here, old fellow, we be left
by that train which just pulled out of here, and will
give you $50 if you catch it for us.”’ There was no time
fora parley, and before the hand-car man knew what
he was doingthe two comedians had sprung on the
platform and were working at the ‘“‘pumps’” When
they were about half way across the bridge the watch-
man attempted to arrest them, but it was no use. Des-

perate deeds need desperate remedies, and with a
sweep of his fist Evans knocked the fellow down, and a
second later they were flying over the track. Twenty-
five miles out the train had stopped to water, and just
before it started the hand-car, with Evans and Hoey
working for dear life and yelling like two Indians on
the warpath came around the bend. One minute later
and they would have been left for good. As they climb-
ed upon the platform, pale as the ghost of a defunct
combination, and panting lke two lizards in the suin-
mer time, Evans pulled outa $50 bill and threw it to
the trainman.

IN HIS NEW PLAY, ‘‘Monbars,” R. B. Mantell is not al-
ways that splendid specimen of masculine beauty he
has made so familiar to American audiences. In fact.
it is only in the first act that he is the elegant gentle-
man of the handsome countenance and stunning at-
tire. Afterward the prettiness is laid aside and Mantell
is seen as a rough-featured man in whom the evidences
of mental suffering are depicted. In the latter make-up
Mantell will be a novelty to the public, but the ladies
will find it difficult to forgive him for subordinating
his good looks to the demands of dramatic art. Still,
so imposing is Mantell in stature and mein, that he is
fully as striking in one phase of ‘*Monbars” as the
other. It is one thing to be the ‘‘pretty” actor of the
genus ‘‘masher’’ and quite another. to .be a genuine
dramatic artist who succeeds by dint of sheer histriovi>:
talent. WOODEN SPOON.

OUR PICTURES.

Night-soil in the Reservoir.

Lewis Evans, a Pottstown, Pa., scavenger, has been
arrested for dumping ordure in the city reservoir. We
illustrate the scene.

They Did the Job Themselves.

The ladies of Terre Haute, feeling indignant over the
condition of the village cemetery, assembled the other
day, and, arming themselves with axes, sickles and
similar weapons, repaired thither and commenced cut-
ting out the thistles and weeds that had been left to
ripen there. The sexton felt so scandalized that he
agreed to finish the bch if pases would leave.

Fired a Pistol into his Wife’s Mouta.
A special from Chattanooga, Tenn., Oct. 19, says: A
man named named McAlister, an accident insurance
agent, went into his wife’s room at the Green hotel, in

‘Dayton, last night, and opening her mouth discharged

@ pistol into it, the bullet penetratingthe roof of her
mouth and lodging near the left eye. The woman was
in a delicate condition, which had exasperated her hus-
band, who bears a most unsavory reputation. McAl-
ister was arested and jailed, and there is talk of lynch-
ing him. The murderer said that it was his purpose to
kill his two children and then himself, but he was taken
before he could accomplish this. The woman cannot
live.

Impaled on an Iron Target.

A special from Indianapolis, Ind., Oct. 17, says: Ernest °
Tendleman, a Bee Line employee, while standing on a
platform loading coal on a locomotive tender yester-
day, slipped and fell, striking a switch target, which
was driven through his body. There was a knob on
the end of the target which had to be filed off before he
was extricated. It took thirty-five minutes to remove
the knob and the accumulated rust before he could be
lifted off the target, and during the entire time of this
horrible impalement the man withstood the excruiat-
ing torture. The target was about an inch and a half
in diameter. He was removed to the hospital, and not-
withstanding his horrible injuries the physicians ex-
press a hope of saving the unfortunate man’s life.

Sharp Detective Work.

A special from Chicago, October 15, says: Ah Gung,
a self-entrapped Chinese murderer, was in the cage at
the United States Marshal's office here this afternoon
from Rock Island. United States District Attorney Ew-
ing was notified by the Department of Justice that a
Chinese murderer was on his way West, probably via
Rock Island. The police there were notified just in
time and laid hands upon Ah Gung in the depot. Ade-
tective was put in the cell with him, and in an off-hand
way boasted of several murders, when the Chinaman,
who was only under suspicion, told vauntingly how he
too, had gone too the house of a white woman with
whom he consorted and asked her for money, When
she refused he picked up a heavy miner's candle and
stabbed her several times with the prong, inflicting
fatal wounds. The crime was committed in Alta less
than a’week ago.

An Insane Woman's Fury.

A special from St. Joseph, Mo., Oct. 15, says: There
was brought before the County Court to-day a woman
about 40 years of age, who has already served two
terms in an asylum and who yesterday attempted to
drown herself, and, failing in this, tried to kill her
13-year-old son. The woman’s name is Celia Benson,
and sho resides in Maryville, Nodaway county. She
has four children living in this city, the oldest of whom
is a boy about 15 years of age. The children live on the
banks of the river near the railroad bridge.

Yesterday Mrs. Benson came from Maryville, and,
going directly to the hut, threw herself into the river.
She was rescued by some men and taken to the hut
and locked inaroom. An hour or two later she called
her son William, one of a pair of twins 13 years old,
to her, and knocking outa pane of glass from the win-
dow, told him to shake hands. The boy consented,
and, grabbing him tightly around the wrist. she
wrenched his arm, trying to pull him into the window,
and declaring she would kill him. The boy’s cries for
help brought the other children to his assistance, and
he was liberated. The woman was sent back to Mary-
ville to-day. She has only been out of the asylum a
few months.

THE LUCK OF SOME MEN AND HOW THEY:
ACCEPT IT. :

In the grand monthly drawing of the Louisiana State
Lottery October 11, two-tenths of the capital prize of
one hundred and fifty thousand dollars were sold in
this city, the remaining fractions in New York and
Chicago.

Mr. Laurent Faget, a well-known broker doing busi-
ness at 181 Common street, was the first comer at the
lottery office Wednesday morning, and, on behalf of a
friend, presented for redemption one-tenth of ticket
13,646, entitled to fifteen thousand dollars.

Having received a bank check for that amount Mr.

_Faget bowed his acknowledgment, signed a certificate

and departed.

Scarcely had he withdrawn when in stepped two
gentlemen, Mr. Victor Tujague and afriend. Tujague
had drawn a prize and he desired to claim it in person.
His ticket, 58.490, represented two-tenths of the third
capital prize of twenty thousand dollars, and was en-
titled to four thousand dollars.

Mr. Tujague isa handsome young fellow, native of
New Orleans, apparently twenty-one years of age, and
with his faiher keeps a saloon at 213 Decatur street. He
bought his ticket from a peddler in his neighborhood,
and is thoroughly convinced that fortune is kind in the
distribution of favors. €.

He received a check for four thousand dollars on the
New Orleans National Bank like alittle man, smiled,
and wanted everybody to smile with him, and signed
for the biggest sum of money he ever received for his
individual account, for although his father has usually
joined in his lottery ventures, on this particular occa-
sion the old gentleman ‘“‘guessed he wouldn’t go in,”
for which unrighteous guess the o. g. is doubtless in-
vestigating his horoscope with a view of obliterating
from the firmament his zodiacal sign.

Victor expects to add ‘‘& Son” to the sign which
swings over the door of the house of spiritual refresh-
ments, 213 Decatur street, and to invest in such choice
properties as he may consider bargains. He will not

/ loan money at usurious or even doubtful interest.

The other one-tenth of the one hundred and fifty
thousand dollar prize was drawn yesterday by the Union
| National Bank for acconnt of a depositor.—New Orleans
Picayune, Oct. 15.

i ae a ae ee ee se

Lag

ere

i to
her

She

the

ver.
hut
lled
old,
win-
ted,
she
low,
s for
and
ary:

HEY:

State
ze of
ld in
- and

busi-
t the
ofa
ticket

it Mr.
ficate

1 two
jague
-rson.

third
a8 en-

ive of
e, and
t. He
rhood,
inthe

on the
miled,
signed
for his
isually
r occa-
xo in,”
ess in-
erating

which
efresh-

choice
vill not

nd fifty
e Union
Orleans

ere Rs

_ Society.

THIS” WICKED WORLD.

Samples of Man’ s Duplicity
and .YWoman’s YYorse
Than Yeakness.

“Clara King,” the Girl Burglar.

We present this week another chapter of the history
of Charles Kelly, alias George Harris, the burglar ar-
rested with a ganz of men at Princeton. Ind., who
turned out to bea woman. That published two weeks
ago was given by a woman, who then said her name

was Clara King. and that her home was nowhere,
proves to be a string of falsehoods, which she after-
ward claimed was related for the purpose of shielding
her relatives. Had she given her true name her sisters,
who are respectable and well-to-do, would have heard
of her whereabouts, and this she wanted to avoid until
she was taken to the reform school. Notwithstanding
this precaution, her relations discovered the plight she
was in, and one of her sisters wrote to Sheriff McGary,
informing him who the so-calied Clara King was. It
transpires that her true name is Anna Azbel, and the
sister who wrote to the sheriff was Mrs. Kitchell, of
Vincennes. Another sister and a brother also live in
that city. In Washington she also has a sister. When
Anna first donned the male attire she was living with
her sister and brother-in-law at Washington. One day
when the folks were all away from home she appro-
priated a su't of her brother-in-law’s clothing and
starved out on the turf. When she was arrested she
was dressed in men's clothes, and she was put in jail
along with the other four of the gang, the fact that she
wasafemale not being suspected. Shortly after her
incarceration she told the sheriff she was afraid of some
of the fellows. She claimed she was not of age, and
said she wanted to go to the reform school instead of
the State Prison, and for this the others threatened her
until she became afraid to be with them.

fii

AN ELOPING COUPLE CAUGHT.

A New, London Girl Found b by Her Brother in Com-
rs pany With Her Lover.

"SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.]

A special from New Haven. Conn., October 19, says:
Miss Florence Taylor, aged eighteen years, is a charm-
ing young lady. whose parents live in New London, her
father being engaged in the bookbinding business.
Florence is a blonde, with a pair of blue eyes and a
complexion as-white as'marble. She is highly educated,
and mingied in the best society. Sometime last sum-
mer’ George R. Noble arrived at New London, and
registered at the Crocker House. He was engaged to
put up machinery in a factory there, and being of an
affable disposition and having lots of money, he soon
introduced himseif into the best of New London
He was not long in forming the acquaintance
of Miss Taylor, and soon gained her affections. They
met frequently but never at the home of the young
lady. Some two months ago Noble left New London
for Derby, to put in sume heavy machinery for the
Derby paper mills. The lovers corresponded freque:t-
ly, and as a result an appointment was made. A week
ago last Monday the girl met Noble in Derby, and they
left for New York, where they put up at one of the
hotels as man and wife. The next evening they took
the five o’clock train from the Grand Central Depot for
Birmingham, and registered at the Bassett House under
assumed names, but occupied different apartments,

and stopped there only two days and nights. On Fri-

day last he took her to the Dayton House in Ansonia,
and there they were registered as man and wife. The
proprietor asked him if she was his wife, and he re-
plied “Yes.” The name he placed on the register was
J. K. Noble and wife.

Yesterday morning a detective, accompanied by a
brother of the girl, put in an appearance in Derby.
The detective went over to the Wilkinson factory,
where he found Noble, and accused him of inducing
Mies Taylor to leave her home. He could hardly re-
ply, but braced up sufficiently to request that all the

* parties should meetin the Bassett House at half-past

ll. This request was granted, but at that hour he still
further wished to put off the interview until-3 o’clock.
For a second time his request was granted. The hour
of3 arrived, but Noble was not to be found. .A car-
riage was hired, and the detective and Miss Taylor’s
brother drove to Ansonia. On arriving there they went
to the Dayton House, where the detective learned that
Noble was in a room off the front hall with Miss Taylor.
The detective listened awhile, and heard Noble tell
her to lock the door after he went out, and not to let
anybody in until he came back. It was thought it was.
about time to act, as the fellow was undoubtedly pre-
paring to fly. The brother of the girl sent in his name
tothe room by a servant, demanding to see Noble at
once in the hotel office, but he refused to come. Mr.
Taylor sent in his name for the second-time, with the

message that he had better come down to avoid |
This had the desired effect, and he came |

trouble.
down into the office, followed by the girl. When he
saw Mr. Taylor he attempted to escape, but the
brother of the girl drew a pistol, and Noble dodged
behind Miss Taylor, keeping her in front of him until

the detective took the pistol from Taylor. Then Tay- |
lor and Noble clinched, but Taylor was thrown to the
floor.
and he'd him until the arrival of Chief Ellis, when he
was arrested on a charge of seduction and taken to the
lockup. He is abont thirty-five years of age, 5 feet 7
inches in height. and sports a handsome auburn mous-
tache. He is said to be a cousin of Ferdinand Ward.

BENT TO KILL.

A Thousand Citizens Form a Band of Vigilantes
in West Virginia.

[SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION. |]

A special from Charleston, W. Va., Oct. 18 says: Since
the murder of the Rev. Thomas P. Ryan near Spencer,
Roane county, on last Thursday, it has been learned
that an organized band of regulators of over 1,000
citizens, farmers and others of Jackson, Roane, Kan-
awha, Clay and Gilmer counties, has existed for over
six months. The organization was formed tor the
purpose of self-protection against the bands of rob-
bers and murderers who have run riot in certain
localities of Jackson, Roane and Kanawha counties,
in which stores have been robbed and inoffensive
people made to suffer.

It was about eleven 0 relock ¢ on Thursday night when
the door of the Rev. Mr. Ryan’s mountain home was
crushed in after a shot had been fired through the
front door. Ryan immediately sprang from his bed,
grabbed his shot gun, cocking both barrels, exclaimed:
“What is wanted?” The reply was from an inner door:
“Old man, we want your money and mean to have it.”
Asecond shot was fired, and Kyan exclaimed: ‘‘Mother,”

‘speaking to his wife, ‘I am killed. .I am shot through
the bowels.” Thereupon one. barrel of his shot gun

was discharged, taking effect in the side of the room.
The discharge is supposed to have been caused by his
fall. This causei a halt, and the wife and son took
Ryan to an up stairs room, after which the murderers,

‘five in number, ransacked the lower part of the house,

getting nothing, and overlooking some money near at
hand.

Strong circumstantional evidence pointed to Charles
Coon, George Duff, Jr., Robert M. Duff, and Perry
Drake, for whom warrants were issued. Drake was
quietly arrested at his home. Constable Gibbons and
@ posse of about sixty went to the residence of George
Duff, Sr.. in Kaintuck. where George Duff, Jr., and
Coon were quartered. They had prepared for an as-
sault as they were expecting t-ouble. Coon saw the
posse moving upon the house and coolly uotified two
‘women present to leave as there was going to be ashow.

Upon the approach of the officers Coon warned them
away, and immediately opened fire with a pistol.

The fire was returned by the officers, and for a few
minutes bullets flew thick and fast from each party.
The outlaws took refuge in an up-stairs room, where
Duff was brought downby a shot from arifie. The
officers then surrounded the house and were’ about to
set it on fire when old man Duff, a respectable farmer,
prevailed upon Coon to surrender, which he did. as his
ammunition was about exhausted. Robert M. Duff was
arrested the same day at his house near that of his
father, being surprised by the officers.

On Saturday ncon the prisoners were taken to the
scene of their crime, Ryan’s residence, and a justice
set yesterday for their preliminary trial. Meanwhile
George Duff, jr., died at home on Sunday night. The
restof the prisoners were kept under guard until Sun-
day night, when about 330 masked men took Coon from
the officers and with a rope around his neck hurried
him to a convenient tree. On his way he prayed and
made a confession, which is to be received with doubt.
The substance is, that he-was guilty of participating
in the murder; that Bob and George Duff, jr., were

along, and. that:George Duff fired the fatal shot from

Coon’s revolver. Some say he implicated Drake.
Others say he did not speak of him. Whatever the con-
feasion was he was immediately hanged, dying zame.

_. After the hanging of Coon the regulators went after
Bob Dnff, and hurriedly took him toward the scene of
Coon’s execution. Itis both alleged and denied that
he confessed. Shots: were fired at the mob either by
gnards or friends of Duff. The mob scattcred instant-
ly. In the early morning on Thursday the body of
Bob Duff was found in the public road with his throat
cut ‘entirely across and ° frightful stabs in his chest
almost in ‘sight of the body ef Coon which was still
hanging to:the tree. Neither was touched until late on
Sunday evehing, when a coroner’s jury assembled and
adjourned without discovering anything. Coon, who
had no friends near, was buried by afarmer. Rela-
tions of Duff took charge of his remains and buried
them near his home yesterdy.

Drake was spared, and yesterday he was taken to the
Ryan residence for examination. A large crowd of
armed men were present determined upon lynching
him. He waived examination, and was ordered to the
jail in Charleston forsafekeeping. After much trouble
and danger he reached here to-night under the guard
of Capt. Burnett, of the Eureka Detective Agency, and
a strong posse. No warrants have been issued for Dan
Cunningham, who, it is alleged, was one of the gang of
murderers. As the investigation of the affair pro-
gresses interesting results are certain. Officers are
after others who are said tobe members of the out-
law’s band. Coon came from Tyler, Texas, and called
himself Jesse James.

When Bob Duff was shot ond of the vigilants went to
his body and cut his throat, saying: ‘‘This is in remem-
brance of the young lady school teacher you killed for
her money.” A lady school teacher was killed for her
money in the upper part of Roane county some months
ago, and a warrant was out for Bob Duff, charging him
with the crime. - “ oe

THOUGHT HER A SPIRIT.

ISUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.)

A special from Atlanta, Ga., Oct. 14 says: Mme. Car-
lotta, the female balloonist, had a successful ride in
the air and a sensational landing among a party of col-
ored cotton pickers in the backwoods of De Kalb coun-
ty yesterday evening. Mme. Carlotta had a senbational
experience. She was dressed in circus costume, with
wings from her shoulders: She says: ‘I landed in a
cotton field and had no trouble except to get the sur-
rounding crowd of darkies to hold the balloon or help
in any way. They were afraid of being carried off.
One of themi said: ‘Be you ‘the lady dat rode in-dat
chariot? shuah? I though{4t.was a star.’ Another one,
an aged woman, with black. ziossy skin and a crown of
cotton-colored wool, was terribly affrighted, and began
praying and screaming. She thought the world had
come to an end.”

“BILLY” INNES.

(Wirn Portralt.|
Elsewhere we publish a portrait of Billy Innes, who
ia known as the backer of oarsmen, both American and
English, all over the world. Innes has arranged many

The detective then caught Noble by the body |

important rowing races for Hanlan in England, and
has acted in the capacity of final stakeholder in many
important matches. He will manage the international
race between George Bubear and John Teemer, who
are to row for the championship of England in Janu-
ary on the Thames or Tyne.

SERRE NEE ETA

SHE TRIED TO CREMATE HIM.

After Shooting Dr. E. C. 3. Harlan for Betraying her,
Hattie Woolsteen Sets Fire to his Body.

[SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION. ]

A special from San Francisco, October 17, says: The
excitement in Los Angeles, caused by the discovery
that the bux of charred and blackened flesh and bones
found in the ruins of a burned barn wasall that re-
mained of the dashing Dr. E. C. Harlan, is steadily in-
increasing. Among sporting men in this city
the excitement growing out of the gay doctor's
horrible end is very great, for he was known to
almost all of the card gamblers and men about town
here and throughout the State.

Some years ago Harlan gave careful attention to the
demands of his profession, and, as he was a dentist of
much more than the average skill, he enjoyed fora

-cosiderable period 4 large income from his extensive

business. His remaing were found at Compton on Oc-
tober 7, in a box made of untrimmed: boards. As the

-police were of the opinion that-a murder had been

committed an earnest effort Was made to discover thé
murderer and the causes which led to the killing of
Harlan, who was known as an off: handed, genial fel-
low.

It was aaserted that he brought with him to Compton
a young girl of handsome figure and attractive man-
ners, named Hattie Woolsteen, Several of his friends
informed the police that he was married, and it was at
tion which would lead to the detection of the murderer.
quarreled,and that the latter could give some informa-
Once assumed that Harlan and Miss Woolsteen had

At the post mortem examination evidences of gun-
shot wounds were found on the cranium of the corpse,
and on the right breast a patch of discolored skin about
five inches in diameter was found. There was a cut on

‘the-left breast about six inches long, and the body

bore marks of several bruises. While the post mortem
examination was pending the police learned that the
team which Harlan had used in his trips to Compton
on the night he was last seen was returned at four
o’clock the following morning to the livery: stable at
which it had been hired. :

There the police ascertained that: Hattie Woolsteen
and her sister. Minnie. had been out riding with’two
unknown. men on the night that Harlan is alleged to
have been murdered, and that they came home about
three o’clock in the morning.

Hattie Woolsteen was arrested, charged with being
an accomplice to the murder of Dr. Harlan, although
she denied all knowledge of the circumstances con-
nected with it. She had been in custody but a few days,
however, when she took a large dose of chloroform
with suicidal intent after having made a confession to
the Chief-of Police.

In this confession Miss Woolsteen says that she and
Harlan had a serious quarrel upon the day preceding
the murdcr, because he then told her he was married,
and therefore he could do nothing to right the wrong
he had done her. She declared that she drew from a
concealed pocket in her dress a small revolver, and,
pointing it to where he was — in the buggy, pulled
the trigger.

‘As she was almost overcome by her angry passion,
however, she did not notice where the bullet struck.
She then drove to a barn in a deserted spot near Comp-
ton, and -dragging the body of Harlan to a heap of
straw and hay, she ignited the barn in the hope of ob-
literating the evidences of hercrime. The girl is said
to have been in custody for four days before this
alleged confession was obtained from her, and no one
was permitted to see her.

Awritof habeas corpus was sued out by reporters
who wanted to interview her, and the foregoing alleged
confession is not accepted as true by many people.
The Chief of Police, in answer to numerous questions,
says that Miss Woolsteen has made contradictory con-
fessions.

She asserts that when Harlan told her that he was
married she cried out in horror and that he was so
overcome by her grief that he drew a revolver from
his pocket, put it to his head and fired, killing himself
instantly. She then buried the body as related in her
other confession.

There is considerable sympathy shown for Miss
Woolsteen 1n Los Anveles, as it is thought that she at-
tempted suicide because of the shameful disclosures
which will be made of her relations with Harlan.

DANCING TU. TURKEYS. ,

Device of a Cruel but Ingenious Barkeeper to Attract
Attention.

|SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.)

In a saloon on Frankfort avenue, below Norris street,
Philadelphia, the other day, a reporter saw two turkeys
dancing to the strains of an orguinette. It was a strange
sight to see the ungainly birds bobDing up and down,
first on one foot. then on the other, then up with both
feet, circling and wheeling around each other, chasse-
ing and chanzing sides, keeping perfect time with an
orguinette turned by the hand of the barkeeper.

All the onlookers were mystified, while the barkeeper
grinned and raked in the nickels which were paid over
the bar by the amused crowd. The reporter, aftér the
crowd werit out, investigated the dancing turkeys and
discovered the method by which they were taught—or
rather compelled—to move. He found that the plan
was ingenious, though crucl. They were made to
dance by nieans of fire. Underneath the sheet iron
cage floor there was a shelf set, leaving a space of
about three inches, into which was fitted an iron slide.
When the man wanted the turkeys to dance he would
quietly get a shovel of live coals from the kitchen stove,
distribute them over the iron slide and slip it into
place under the sheet iron cage floor, and in five min-
utes the turkey fandango would be in full blast. First
one foot would be raised, then the other, and soon, the
pace quickening as the heat increased, until the birds
would be going as fast as they could lift their feet, and
they would keep it up until the floor’ would cool off
again.

“They know what’s coming now as soon as I begin to
fool with the slide,” said the barkeeper, ‘and they be-
gin to dance without waiting forthe floor to be heated.
It’s a good.card for the place while it lasts, but I guess
the' novelty will soon wear off.
myself already.”

farce iohecmentondllieecencicns pao
THE RIVAL BEAUTIES.
|Wi1TH PoRTRAITS.|

On another page we publish excellent portraits of
Mrs. Langtry and Mrs. Cora Brown Potter.

I'm getting tired of it |

THE NATIONAL | POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. 3

OUR PORTRAITS,

The Men and V Wenen YY ho
Find Pictorial Fame
These Columns.

Joseph Borgo.

Every tourist who knocks about gay Paris is quite
sure to recognise the genial face that heads this col-
umn as that of the courteous Joseph Borgo, the mana-
ger of the famous Cafe de Paris, who formerly con-
ducted the Grand Hotel Vatal, Versailles; Hotel Conti-
nental, and Cafe Monaco, London; and for several
seasons some of the principal seaside resorts in’ Eng-
land, France and Italy.

pease Arann iv,
Gus Brown.

Elsewhere will be found a portrait of this well-known

pugilist and wrestler.

John McPherson.

On another page will be found a portrait of John Mc-
Pherson, born of Scotch parente at Chatham, P. FE. I.,
who is champion shot-putter of the world.

George Ayen.

In this issue we publish a portrait of George Ayen,
the well-known sportsman of Providence, and _ his
hunting dogs, Richard K. Fox and Flirt. Mr. Ayen is
well known in sporting circles.

Rawson-Lec Shooting.

In a previous issue we have given details and illustra-
tions of the sensational shooting of Stephen W. Raw-
son, the Chicago millionaire, by his step-son, Ralph W.
Lee, last week. In this number, on one of our illus-
trated pages, will be found portraits of the desperate
young man and his step-father, whose dcath is expected
at any moment,

J. A. Stewart.

J. A. Stewart is the drug clerk of Wichita. Kan., who
pleaded guilty to selling 208 glasses of Deer, and was
sentenced by the District Court of Sedgwick county to
pay $20,800 and go to jail for seventeen years and four
months. The court simply obeyed the mandates of the
Murray law, in delivering sentence, The plea of
guilty was made with a view on the part of Stewart's
attorney, to show the absurdity of the law, being con-
fident that a pardon could be procured for the defend-
ant. Young Stewart woke up after the sentence and
found himself famous.

Charles Havermyer.

One of the most daring and accomplished forgers in
the country, Charles Landers, escaped from the Still-
water (Minn.) prison last week, where he was serving a
24-year’ sentence.

Landers had almost as many names as there are let-
ters in the alphabet, but his real oneis believed to be
Charles Havermyer. The particular “lay” he was en-
gayed upon was in victimizing jewelry firms, and he
had succeeded in securing many thousands of dollars
before he was finally detected, He is known in tho
Southern country, especially New Orleans, for his
clever crookedness, :

‘James H. Jacobs.

Jacobs has just been found guilty of the killing of
Elmer FE. Quigley at Lancaster, Pa, where the trial
caused a great deal of excitement. The circumstances
of the crime may be recited briefly. On the night of
the llth of December, 1886, Jacobs stabbed Elmer EF,
Quigley in the stontach with a butcher knife. ‘The
affair occurred near Jacobs’ house. Quigley came
along the railroad just outside of the back yard fence *
and remonstrated with Jacobs for abusing his children,
who were crying. After some words Jacobs went into
the house, got the knife, came out and plunged it into
his victim. Quigley died the next day. °

“ Blinkey” Morgan.

Blinkey Morgan’s trial forthe murder of Detective
Hulligan is the sensation of the week at Ravenna, O.,
where the crime occurred. “Blinkey” has one of the
strangest records in the country. He appearsin court
each day attired in a black suit and spotless linen. He
is always cleanly shaven, and has more the appearance
of a college professor than a }urglarand murderer.
He reads human nature ata glance, and was wont to
tell his attorneys to challenge jurors who did not
please him before a question was asked: While in
court the prisoner is guarded by two deputy sheriffs
and a guard of six deputies escort him to and from the
jal. Every precaution is being taken to prevent an at-
tempt at escape.

FIGHTING @ MARINES.

{SUBJECT OF ILLUSTT“TION.]

On another page we illustrate a recent riot ar.ong
the marines at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, during which
one of the rioters had his head split open by a sword
cut inflicted by the sergeant of the guard.

aff
A\YY

oun
i Mm

ASSO YY

yet

aati |]

MAI SYP

aca ‘\

aif

NOV. 8,160) THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. _ 5

Cartes HAvVERMYER, ‘ $TepaHen W. Rawson, s Rates W. Ler,
THe DARING AND ACCOMPLISHED FORGER WHO HAS JUST ESCAPED THE CHICAGO MILLIONAIRE WHO WAS SHOT DOWN BY HIS STEP- WHO SHOT HIS STEPFATHER MILLIONAIRE RAWSON IN CHICAGO
FROM THE STILLWATER, MINNESOTA, PRISON. SON RALPH LEE, TO AVENGE HIS MOTHER’S ALLEGED WRONGS.

FIGHTING MARINES.

SOME OF UNCLE SAM’S LAND AND WATER POLICE HAVE A GENIAL SHINDY AMONG THEMSELVES AT THE NAVY YARD, BROOKLYN, N. Y.

OLE

James H. Jacoss, Burmxey Moraay, J. A. Srewart,

THE SLAYER OF ELMER E. QUIGLEY WHO HAS BEEN CONVICTED THE STAB BURGLAR NOW ON TRIAL FOR THE MURDER OF DETEC- WHO WAS SENTENCED TO SEVENTEEN YEARS AND FINED TWENTY
FOR THE CRIME AFTER A LONG TRIAL, LANCASTER, PA, TIVE HULLIGAN, KILLED IN A STRUGGLE AT RAVENNA, 0, THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED DOLLARS, WICHITA, KAN,

ALMOST OUT.

Dunlap, the ‘American Bank
Robber, Reaches the End
of His Imprisonment.

HIS CRIMES.

K Wonderful and Famous Rogue’s
Strange Life Career Which
Reads Like a Romance.

HE SAVES HIS BOODLE.

In 18967 or 1868 a bright young fellow, who was born
and bred in Warsaw,, Ill. was arrested and convicted
by an Illinois court for grand larceny. He was a
handsome chap. He had received a fair education,
and he had a pious mother. But he was bad from
early childhood, and he was as bold as he was bad. He
began life away from home on a Mississippi steamboat,
where, from his quick, nervous movements, his skill
as a dancer, ane his agility, he gained the nickname of
Hustling Bob Scott.

While he was in the penitentiary he was approached
by an older criminal, who was well known to the police
throughout the country as Scar-faced Tom, but whose
real name was Tom Riley.

Scar-faced Tom first signified to Hustling Bob that |

he liked his looks, and Scott was pleased with his com-
pliment.

“You've got the stuff in you,” says Scar-faced Tom
in prison language one day to Scott.

“Glad you think so,” was the reply.

And then they gained that intimacy which bars and
solitary cells cannot prevent. Scott was delighted with
the idea of being put upon the right road for big busi-

LOOKING FOR THE KEY.

ness in Scar-faced Tom’s line, and before their terms
expired Riley had promised to bring Scott and another
young fellow together just as soon as they got out of
jail. This other young fellow was Dunlap, and as soon
as Scott was released, the very next day Riley pre-
sented him to Dunlap who had received word from
Ril y to be in Chicago.

The two young men, as they afterward said, stood
staring at each othera moment. Their study of each
other was satisfactory. They grasped hands and be-
gan a partnerdhip that with a single interruption lasted
until the walls of Concord prison closed upon them
with a twenty years’ sentence before them.

Scott was then about twenty-five years old.
six feet tall and straight as a hickory rod. He was
slender, but his muscles were like steel wires. He had
large and very black eyes, coal black hair, and singu-
larly fine teeth, and he lisped just a little when he was
in excitement. But he was very cool and had abun-
dant self-restraint. His voice was low and soft, and
his manner was quiet.

Dunlap was born in Scotland, but that fs all any one
ever learned of his early history. He never spoke of it
to his intimates, but there were some indications that
vice was not his early experience, and he certainly had
some advantages in his boyhood. It was always sur-
mised that he was of good family, and had been the
black sheep init, and itis probable that Dunlap was
an assumed name. He, too, was a handsome fellow at
an off-hand glance, His eyes were blue, his hair brown
and he wore a sandy mustache. He seemed always to
be siniling, and for that reason his face was one which
would inspire a stranger's confidence. He was a stouter
man than Scott, not quite so tall, but, like Scott, of
good figure, and very undemonstrative and quiet in
his manners,

After Riley had brought them together and chatted
with them for a while, he said:

“Now, I’ve done you two a good turn. You are just
the men who ought to be together. I expect to hear
from you pretty soon. When I hear of a good piece of
work I shall know who did it,”’»and he left them. His
line was different from theirs, and they never saw him
again.

Dunlap at once took Scott to New York, and intro-
duced him to Billy Connors, a professional crook,
though a man who prided himself upon his gentle-
manly appearance and demeanor. Connors was known
either by name or description to every criminal detect-
ive of repute in the country. His specialty was scout-
ing, piping and preparing for expeditions. He after-
ward developed some skill as an intermediary between
the gang and bank officers who sought to compromise
and thus get some of their possessions back.

Not long after,Scott arrived in New York Connors set
out on an exploring expedition. He reported on his
return that he thought good chances were to be found
for operation in Cleveland and Dayton, but advised
that an attempt be first made upon the Falls City Bank
in Louisville. It was a quick job, and the easiest of all

He was

THE NATIONAL POLICE

their successful exploits. They robbed the bank of

The detectives were in a fog. They saw at once that
the workmanship was that of most skillful cracksmen,
‘but who? Allof the men capable of such work were
located elsewhere. They could not have done it. Con-
nors was suspected, but no trace of him having been
in Louisville conld be found, So it was clear that new
and very dangerous men had joined the ranks of skill-
ful cracksmen. Who were they? Where were they?

New York detectives soon reported that Billy Connors

other condition than that of prosperity. But he was
very closely shadowed and soon it was reported that
he had for ecompatiions two stylish-looking chaps about
whom nothing was known. The description of these
stylish chaps was passed along until it reached Jolict.
then word came back as follows: ‘The dark man is
Hustling Bob Scott, who served aterm here for grand
larceny.”

Down went the name of Hustling Bob into the blot-
ter of every detective agency and’ in the record of
every police office of every city. But Dunlap
was not placed at all. All that the detectives could
learn about him was that his name was Jim
Dunlap and that he was crooked. They were
convinced that these were the men who robbed the
Falls City Bank, but not the slightest clew could they
obtain to fasten the crime upon them.

In about a year their cash got low,and it was Connors
who first suggested that some more work was neces-
sary, While they were preparing fora scouting expe-
dition Connors met John Berry, a bold but not very
brainy cracksman, and Berry suggested that the Sec-
ond National Bank of Elmira offered peculiarly tempt-
ing inducements for their line of work.

A few days after that a gentlemanly appearing man
registered at the Rathbone House in Elmira. His man-
ner made him friends. He was reserved, and appeared
to be busy with private matters. He was in his room a
yzood deal. He never appeared at the bar, and sent no
order there. It was understood that he had some idea
of buying land a little ways out of Elmira. He was,
indeed, a sober. industrious man, and his name was
Billy Connors, and he used his eyes to such purpose
that he discovered that the Young Men’s Christian
Association occupied rooms over the Second National
Bank’s vaults. He frequented these rooms in the
evening, and was welcome. Sometimes he paused a
moment at the door, as if to wipe his feet. But his
eyes and finzers were on the lock of that door, without
avail. The door was iron, and the lock a patent one of
which no impression was possible. With this and
other information of value Connors departed from
Elmira.

He reported to the gang, which had been enlarged by
the admission of Ked Leary, Bill Cummings and John
Berry, that the bank’s vault could be dug into if they
could get access to the Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tion rooms at night. Put the iron door and the patent
lock make an impassable barrier, as they would be ob-
liged to work there many nights, and any tampering
with the lock would betray them.

“We can’t work it,” said Dunlap.
where else.”

“We can work it if we can get a party that knows
about locks interested,” suggested Seott. “Try that
lay, Billy; or why not get the keys?”

That suggestion was regarded as good. Two days
after two young men, supposed to be drummers, ap-

**Let’s look some-

AFTER THE

peared in Elmira. They seemed to be strangers. They
Were introduced by the clerk of the hotel, and seemed
to take to one another, and when they requested him
to give them information as to where they conld go to
make a night of it, they got the information and went
off, apparently already half full of champagne. But
| two blocks away from the hotel they were sober men,
and amazed would that hotel clerk have been could he
have seen them. They took a window pane out of the
sash in the house of the secretary of the Y. M.C. A.,
and were soon, rubber-footed, in his bedroom. His
pockets, bureau drawers and other places where he
| would be likely to keep keys were searched, but none

NEW

GAZETTE: |

were found, and they went away, to enter the hotel a
little before dawn in a seeming state of uproarous in-
toxication.

The amazement of the secretary of the association
next morning was great. Burgiars had left their tracks
in the house, had even rifled his pockets, but not a
thing had -been taken. Had he left his keys in his
trouser’s pocket that night they would have been
taken just long enough to get a wax impression of
them.

Scott and Dunlap returned to New York to report

seemed to be unusually flush, though that was only a | their failure and disgust, but were delighted to hear
slight clew, for Connors never appeared to be in any | Connors say that he had got on the track of a lock and

ABOVE THE VAULT.

safe expert who, he thought, could be worked.

He wag atraveling salesman for one of the big safe
houses, Connors said, and was a sporting man, fond of
horses. When in town he frequented a stable in Thirty-
fourth street, and talked about horses with the men
who gathered there. The man who kept this stable,
Connors added, used to be a friend of his, and in pro-
fessional business, too, and had promised to sound this
safe man.

This safe mau has since told how he was approached.
One night the livery stable keeper said to him: “Edson,
you could make a heap of money without scarcely lift-
ing your finger.”

*‘Well, suppose a party came to you and asked you
for a sample key, and you gave it?”

“That would be funny business? I don’t want it.”

“How would you know it was funny business? You
wouldn’t know. You don’t know the men, and you'd
get as many thousands as there are weeks in the
year.”

Edson listened, was tempted still more,. and at last
promised to give a key toa man whom he should meet
in Elmira and who would give him an impression for
$50,000. ‘The man was to be a stranger, but should have
a note of introduction and say nothing about the pur-
pose for which he wanted the key.

A few days after Edson went to Elmira, where he |

really had business, and at a hotel a fine-looking young
man, well dressed, approached and asked him if his
name was Edson. The fine-looking young man was the
alleged drummer, who had made a night of itafew
weeks before and was now on his return trip. He was
really Hustling Bob.

He gave Edson a letter of introduction, and, then
went to Edson’s room, Pretty soon he went out, and
late th the evening jammed a piece of paper into the
keyhole of the Y. M.C. A.room. This bit of paper he
gave Edson, and in a few days he had the key.

All this had taken nearly a month. A few days after
a woman hired a house in the outskirts of Elmira and
began housekeeping there. No one ever saw any other
person than this woman, though she explained to the
grocers, from whom she bought a large quantity of
provisions, that she boarded ra‘lroad hands, who ar-
rived late at night and were obliged to léave early in
the ‘morning. motes .

These railroad hands were Hustling Bob. Jim Dun-
lap, Red Leary, Billy Connors, Bill Cummings and
John Berry. The woman did not state correctly the
hours of their arrival and devarture. They left the
house separately an hour after midnight, and returned
separately, with careful step, just before dawn. They
metin the Young Men’s Christian Association rooms,
and worked three hours nightly at the hardest kind of
work. The floor was taken up, The huge stones over
the vault were removed and taken, by what must have
been the utmost difficulty, to the garret, and each

EXPLOSION.

‘night the flooring was put back so skillfully that no

signs of the tampering with it were revealed.

After the stones were removed there appeared big
layers of railroad iron. Three weeks of the most
patient work were required to remove this formidable
barrier, and it had to be done noiselessly.

At last the opening to the vault was made. Six weeks’
work had been required. In another night the richly
stored safes would be blown open and another great
bank robbery committed. But upon that evening, just
as the bank was to be closed, the president discovered
bits of plaster on the floor. He was a cautious man.
He knew that these bits were signs of danger, and he

YORK.

made an examination. In five minutes, alimost para-
lyzed with fright, he discovered the big hole above
The police were informed, and they bungled their job.
Billy Connors was piping for the gang, and his quick
eye scented danger. He gave the alarm just as Scott
with an air pump and Dunlap with powder and dyna-
mite were approaching the building.

“The job's up, Jim.” said Scott, taking to his heels.
All of the gang got away except Berry, who was cap-
tured in the building. Connors was nabbed at the
depot, but after a severe fight he got away. The gang
scattered according to prearrangement, and met the
next day in a quiet house in Harlem. They raised
money to defend Berry, and after he was convicted
they gave his wife money to support her and her
children for a year or two, and promised more when
that was gone.

It was a bitter disappointment for the gang. They
tried to find Edson, but he was away in the South on
business for his house. While hunting for him they
stumbled across George Mason. a Western burglar,
whom Connors knew.

Mason suggested that there were good opportunities
at the Quincy, Ill., bank, and a new gane was organ-
ized. In it were Scott, who was now acknowledged
leader; Dunlap, Dave Cummings, known to the police
as Little Dave; Tom B'gelow and Billy Flynn, Connors
and Leary stayed in New York on another job.

A week’s work gave the men admittance to the vault,
and one stormy night Scott and Dunlap dropped
throuzh the hole into it. They had learned the uce of
the air pump from Edson. They plugged up all the
seams in the safe except a slight crack at the top and
bottom. At one crack they placed fine powder, and at
the other the air pump, which, when worked, sucked
the powder in. Then Dunlap fastened a pistol at the
crack, and by means of.a string discharged it. Neither
men left the vault. The explosion was terrific, and the
smoke suffocating. The safe was ripped open, and,
with faces blackened and Dunlap with his hands
burned, they came out with $120,000in cash and $700 000
in good bonds.

When the detectives found the air pump in the vault
they then first learned that this machine had been uti!-
ized by burglars for safe-blasting purposes. On their
return to New York Connors began negotiating for the
bonds through a firm of lawyers, and it is understood
that a cash price was paid for them.

The detectives were sure that Scott and his gang had
committed the robbery, but not the slightest clew that
justified arrest could be found. At this time Scott de-
veloped his fondness for the turf, appearing at all the
races, and frequently exciting admiration as he drove
his very fast trotter Knox up the boulevard or down
the broad road to Coney Island. Dunlap took a trip
across the sea. Berry's family was given a handsome
sum, and the gang separated to enjoy their sport for
the summer.

The screws were put on Edson afew months later

ati} \

fll Nf U/
i Witalfit: }

ARRESTING RED LEARY.

when the money was all spent. He was threatened
with exposure to his employers and family, when he
used his knowledge as a bank-safe expert for the bene-
fit of the gang. On the other hand, he was promised
rich rewards if he would tell them where weak bank
vaults were and how to operate them.

He yielded. He suggested the National Bank in Sara-
toga, the Long Island Bank, and one in Nantucket. An
attempt was made on the Long Island Bank, but was
given up because Scott and Dunlap quarreled. Edson
also suggested a bank in Rockville, Conn., one in Plym-
outh, another in Bloomburg, Pa., another in Wilkes-
barre, and one in Syracuse. The Rockville Bank would
have been attacked if the gang had not been frighten-
ed away.

Scott then took the gang, except Dunlap, to Coving-
ton. The bank which he meant to crack there was
under the Opera House, and the orchestra seats in it
were taken up every night to permit working in the
vault. When the opening was made Scott jumped
down into the vault alone and blew the safe open with
nitro-glycerine, standing in one corner of the vault at
the time. The explosion partly deafened him perma-
nently. Groping through the smoke with his hands
he seized what appeared to be cash and bonds and
rammed the packages into a rubber bag that hung like
a haversack at his side. When they came to look at
their booty they found they had $400,000 in cash and
$1,500,600 in bonds. The bonds are understood to have
been returned on compromise, but the money was
divided.

A year later the money had been gambled, drunk
and dissipated away. Dunlap had made up with Scott,
and proposed to crack a bark in Pittston. They got
into a vault by working from the roof. Scott and Dun-
lap dropped down into it. They worked for an hour’on
one safe, causing twelve explosions, some with powder
and some with glycerine, which one of the zany
outside held in a can, while Dunlap went back and
forth after it foreach charge. At the twelfth explo-
sion the safe yielded, but Scott and Dunlap came out
so exhausted that they could not walk, and Scott was
almost unconscious. He had also inhale
which developed afterward a fatal disease,
$60,000 in bonds in his hands.

HE HAD TO PUT ON HIS COAT.

(SUBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.]

Miner Ed Scheffelin, who recently sold the Touehnut
mine of Arizona for a million dollars, went to Carson
the other day and put up at the best hotel there.
When dinner was announced he sauntered into the
dining room with his long hair trailing down over his
shoulders. which were not covered by a coat. The
head waiter told the millionaire that he must put on
his coat. ‘I guess you don’t know who I am, you black
rascal,” said Mr..Scheffelin. “‘Don't make no diffrunce,
sah,”’ said the waiter; *‘yvou must put on yo’ cout.” And
the landlord backed up the waiter, and the man of
money had to dress before he could eat.

sinoke,
But he had

Le ee,

THE NAT

P'S A WINNER.

That’s What the Big Sports
Say About Cham-
pion Kilrain.

THEIR BATTLES.

The Pugilistic Record of the American
and English Representative
Gladiators in Full.

WELL MATCHED.

In every town, village and hamlet in all parts of this
country and England the reat international prize fight
between Jake Kilrain, America’s champion, and Jem
Smith, England’s champion, who are to enter the magic
circle on Jan. 3, in Spain, and battle for the large
sum of $10,000 a side and the ‘Police Gazette” diamond
belt, is the topic of discussion. Kilrain is with Charley
Mitchell, his popular and shrewd manager, in England,
and both are gaining hosts of friends, and wherever
Kilrain and his manager go they receive every atten-
tion. Kilrain is not a man that likes notoriety; neither
tloes he try to push himself ahead where he is not
wanted, and by his quiet, gentlemanly demeanor he
has already gained a host of friends. No better man
than Mitchell could have gone over to England to show
him the ups and downs, and the many croakers who
are shouting Mitchell isan Englishman, do not know
what they are saying. Mitchell desires Kilrain to win,
and he will do all in his power to assist him
retain the ‘‘Police Gazette” diamond belt. By the way,
Mr. A. H. Spink,the popular editor of the Sporting News
of St. Louis, in his issue of Oct. 15, says:

“The international prize fight between Jake Kilrain,
the champion pugilist of America, and Jem Smith, the
champion pugilist of England, is now creating more
than usual interest in sporting circles. No matter
where you go, either in public resorts, railroads, race
tracks or barber shops, the coming battle is the topic
of conversation. Every one has their opinion and of
course the majority are pinning their faith in the
American champion’s ability to conquer the British
champion. Many outside of the followers of the prize
ring appear to be at sea in regard to the ‘‘Police Ga-
zette” diamond belt, which is now established as the
emblem of the prize ring championship of the world,
as the British and the American champions signed
articles of agreement to contend for the trophy and
that clause is embodied in the protocol]. No matter
what anybody may claim, write or argue the ‘‘Police
Gazette” diamond belt is now the standard pugilistic
championship emblem and no matter whether Jem
Smith or Jake Kilrain wins the coming battle, upon
which the belt, $10,000 and the championship of the
world is at issue, the winner will have to defend it
against all comers.”

The editor of the Sporting News is sound on the quee-
tion, for no matter whether Smith defeats Kilrain or
the latter conquers the British, champion, the winner
will have to defend it against all comers, according to
the rules laid down, and which govern the trophy.

In arecent issue of the Sporting Life, the following
letter from John Fleming to Jem Smith, appears: |

**T have read the remarks, foreign and otherwise, in
regard to the suggested arrangements for the fight be-
tween Smith and Kilrain. It may be interesting to
know that months prior to the ideas recently formu-
lated. 1 gave utterance to the very same suggestions
and strongly advised their immediate adoption. I it
was who first indicated alimit tothe number of spec-
tators in order to ensure fair play and avoid rowdy-
ism. My idea was. each side to submit the names of
fifty visitors, and as a guarantee of fairness, those
against whom there was an objection to be struck out.
My party will consist of noblemen and gentlemen,
chiefly members of the Pelican Club, and I am posi-
tive no one on the other side will be in the slightest
degrée averse to the attendance of a single individual.
On the contrary Iam certatn their presence will be
considered advisable in order to give a tone to the
transaction and secure absolute freedom from unfair
interference. While I think of it I wish to mention
that Shaw and Shrewsbury presented Smith on Tues-
day evening with a pair of patent inflated boxing gloves.
Concerning the arrangements, Mr. Richard K. Fox, of
the New York Police Gazette, assured me that all de-
tails, eo far as he was concerned, wouid be left entirely
to Wm. E. Harding, his representative, and naturally
enough until I hear from him Iam in duty bound to
reward him with my confidence. So far as Mr. Charles
Mitchell is considered he will suit me quite as well; in
fact, better, because I know him, and Mr. Harding is a
stranger to me. Still lam ina quandary, and the sooner

- can thoroughly understand with whom I have to deal

the better I shall likeit. It was my intention to cable
Mr. Fox, but as he will not arrive in America before
Saturday. I must wait. Iam desirous of bringing the
fight off in a quiet respectable manner, according to the
articles. and I await with some anxiety the advent of
Mr. Fox’s nominees from America, so that we can work
amicably together and lead the preliminary business to
asatisfactory issue. I repeat that the incidental ar-
rangements have frequently appeared in the English
and Amcrican papers, and, I think, after nominees
have been approved of, it is decidedly wrong for any
one else to interfere. As regards the “Police Gazette”
diamond belt, my party feel that the fact of Kilrain re-
taining and exhibiting it is unfair to Smith, and with-
out precedent. According to the rules under which the
battle is to be fought, the belt ought to be at once de-
posited with the stakeholder. I shall be only too
pleased to meet Mr. Fox’s nominee, and do all in my
power to assist and work with him to the satisfaction
of the men and their backers.”

In a following issne of the Sporting Life appeared this
from Charley Mitchell:

Sin—Mr. Pleming and his friends appear dreadfully

concerned about the “Police Gazette” diamond beit.
Permit me to state that it will remain in the possession
of Kilrain, the rightful owner, until the proper time
arrives to hand it over to the stakeholder. Kilrain has
given no pledge to any one that he would not exhibit
the belt, and Mr. Richard K. Fox erred when he made
a promise that the belt would be placed in the custody

of the Pelican Club without first. obtaining Kilrain’s’

sanction. Anything just and fair that Kilrain may be
called upon to do, you can bet your bottom dollar will
be done, but there is no precedent for the objections
raised. Mr. Fleming is anxious, too, to know with whom
he will have to deal in concluding arrangements for the
fight. I bez to inform him that Kilrain has left all busi-
negs in connection with the fight and engagements in
my hands. Of course I shall work with William E.
Harding, Mr. Fox’s representative, in an amicable man-
ner so long as Kilrain’s interests are well cared for, but
Mr. Fleming can rest assured that any arrangement
that may be arrived at between Mr. Fox’s agent and
himself will be useless without my sanction aleo being
obtained. Neither Kilrain nor myself wish anything
unfair or unreasonable, and if Mr. Fleming sticks to
the programme he has mapped out, he will find that I
shall work harmoniously with hlm. The bother about
the belt is ‘‘crazy.” Kilrain isthe holder. As such he
has a right to exhibit it, if he feels so disposed to do,
until the proper time arrives for him to deilver it up to
the stakeholder. Yours, etc.,
CHARLES MITCHELL,
Jake Kilrain’s Manager.
In regard to the ‘‘Police Gazette” diamond belt Mit-

‘ chell is correct according to the rules governing the

trophy. Kilrain being the holder of the emblem he
has a perfect right to exhibit the belt and keep it in his
possession until thirty days prior to the contest. At
the expiration of that time he must deposit it with the
final stakeholder. This rule settles the question:

-RULE 17—The belt must be delivered to the stake-
holder thirty days prior to a contest, and the holder
refusing any challenge will forfeit all claims and rights
to the trophy.

In regard to the wrangle over representatives Richard
K. Fox, Kilrain’s backer, will be represented by Will-
iam E. Harding. He will arrive in England on or about
November 14, for he sails from this city on Saturday,
November 56. He will carry written instructions with
him in regard to making the final arrangements for
the great international encounter, and act in conjunc-
tion with Jake Kilrain and Charley Mitche]l in settling
all arrangements about the fight so that there is no
likelihood of any hitch occurring about the manage-
ment of the affair.

Nearly every sporting man on the Pacific Slope, and
in all parts of this country, have heard of Prof. William
Clark, the once famous boniface and boxer. In an in-
terview this is what he says about the great interna-
tional prize fight between Jake Kilrain and Jem Smith
in regard to the American champion receiving fair
play:

“It makes me very tired to hear of this talk of Kilrain
not being likely to receive fair play in his mill with
Jem Smith on the other side. Now. barring the Sayers-
Heenan fight, in which Sayers’ friends cut the ropes,
where is the American that received the worst of it in
the old country ? Ben Caunt took Freeman over and he
whipped the Tipton Slasher. Charley Lynch, long the
champion American feather-weight, went to England
and licked all comers. Yankee Sullivan was taken over
by Gill, and the crowd allowed him to lick Hammer
Lane without raising a hand or voice to prevent such
proceeding. Coburn went over and was to have fought
Mace in Ireland, but the mob ranthe Englishman out
of that country. In fact I never heard of an American
getting the worst of it on the other side. And so Kil-
rain is as likely to get fair play there as he would if in
this country. Another thing that sounds strange is
this talk of Sullivan and Sheedy about Smith being able
to lick Kilrain. Howdothey know? Asa matter of

fact, Sullivan has never yet Jaid eyes on Smith, nor had.

Sheedy seen him until the other day, and yet for
months they have been talking about Smith being the
better man. Well, if that kind of talk is not evidence
of sour grapes, God save the mark. Richard K. Fox I
know personally. He is a shrewd, liberal and, I may
say, great sportsman, and he is well aware -Kilrain
stands a first-class chance of winning the champion-
ship of the world, or he would not spend $10,000, which
I think it will cost him to- bring off the great battle.
Kilrain is a big. sturdy, strong man, very clever with
his hands; his gameness cannot be questioned, and I
admire him because ‘he has always been ready to fight
all challengers. Many men have fought for the chamn-
pionship of this country who. were not, in my opinion,

_Kilrain’s equals, let alone superiors, and it would not

surprise me if he still retained the ‘Police Gazette’
diamond belt, which is now the champion emblem of
the prize ring.”

.Comments of English judges of boxing on Kilrain
under cover, boxing with Charley Mitchell at St. James
Hall: .

“He is another John C, Heenan.”

‘‘He’s no dunce, lad.” .

“Bly me, Tom, he is tricky, and stands like old
fighters.”

“lll bet a pony the American has got a lot up his
sleeve.”

“Why, this Kilrain looks like a mighty good ‘un.”

The Sporting Life, London, says: ‘‘Altogether, if the
truth is told, the set-to between Charley Mitchell and
Kilrain was a very tame affair. We may depend upon
it, however, that there is something more in Kilrain
than he chose to exhibit. He surely has something
more up his sleeve.” .

The Echo says: ‘“‘The American champion, boxing
with Charley Mitchell at St. James Hall was par excel-
lence. He is astrong, muscular, and sturdy boxer, and
it will be no easy task for Smith to conquer him, and
stillthe American, we are certain, did not show true
form.”

Jake Kilrain, the American champion, who is
matched to fight Jem Smith for $10,000, the ‘*Police
Gazette” diamond belt and championship of the world,
gives the following interesting history of his lite and
battles:

Kilrain stands 5 feet 10% inches high, and weighs 210
pounds. His chest measurement is 41 inches, upon
and around the biceps 16 inches. forearm 14 inches,
waist 34 inches, thigh 25 inches, calf of leg 16% inches.
He wears a No. 9shoe anda No.9 glove, and it takesa
17 inch collar to encircle his neck.

*“*‘My name is John Joseph Killion. When I was a lad
my comrades persisted in calling me Kilrain, and the
name has stuck to me ever since, so I have bowed to
the inevitable, and now write my name ‘Kilrain.’ I
was born at Greenport, Columbia county, which is in
the State of New York, and the date of my nativity is
the 8th of February, 1859, so that I am twenty-eight

training athletes and boxing, but in my younger days
I worked ina rolling mill in Somerville, Mass., which
isasuburb of Boston. It was here that I developed a
love for athletic sports. In fact they were forced

IONAL POLICE _

GAZETTE: NEW YORK. 7

| upon me, forin such a iarge establishment it was not

to be wondered at that there were many good boxers,
and as I was a gawky, country boy, I was a mark for
all their practical jokes. Sometimes they went too far,
and when I remonstrated they laughed at me. You
can bet that made me mad, so I just made up my mind
that 1 would thrash one or two of these tormentors,
and from that day I was the champion of the mill.

“The first customer was Jack Daley, who had fought
several small ring battles, but I put him to sleepin
short order. My next encounter was with Jem Driscoll,
a regular giant who, while having little or no science,
could hit with the force of a trip hammer. He hurt
me very badly, but I finally wore him down, and when
he at last gave up his mother would scarcely have
known him. I next fought Dan Dwyer. It was a long
and bloody fight, but I finally managed to pull through
a& winner. I was very sore for a long while, and
thought I wae internally injured. The last man that
was pitted against me was Dennis Roach. He had been
imported to the mill with the idea of putting an end to
young Kilrain’s run of luck, and they came near doing
so, too. I was not very well when the day for the fight
arrived, but knowing full well that I should have been
branded as a coward if I backed out, I got into the ring
determined to stand up as long as 1 was able. My an-
tagonist was a hurricane fighter, and sought to annihi-
late me in a couple of rounds. He hit me in the
stomach several times, and I thought that I must give
in, but after a little while Roach’s blows got weaker,
and finding he could not hurt me much, I fought with
him, and by a judicious use of my left hand, managed
to close up his eyes. Roach was willing to keep on
fighting, although he could not see. Finally his friends
took him away, and'that ended my fighting career in
the mill.”

He took to rowing, and was one of the winning crew
in a four-oared race on Lake Waldron. This appeared
to whet Kilrain’s appetite for boating, and in 1883 we
find him competing successfully for the Junior scull-
ing championship at the National Amateur regatta,
held at Newark, N. J. Of course, when President Gar-
field, of the National Association, learned the identity
of “Killion,” and discovered him to be a professional
pugilist, he at once took steps for an investigation, and
Mr. ‘‘Killion” and Mr. Kilrain ceased to be an amateur
oarsman. His next appearance in a racing boat was on
the Charles river, when he was one of a four-oared
Hull boat crew. They rowed against the Middlesex and
Riverside crews, and beat them both. A few weeks
later on he formed part of a four-oared crew which
rowed in the Union Boat Club regatta on the Charles
river, and won the prize. The same crew was one of
the entriesin the Fourth of July regatta of 1883, but
suffered defeat, rowing second to the Middlesex crew,
which was accounted one of the best amateur fours.

‘In the winter of 1883 I launched out as a down-
right professional pugilist. I obtained .a situation in
the Boston Cribb Club, where I. was assistant to Jem
M’Carthy. Here 1 got more hard knocks than wealth,
but I gained a good deal of experience. While cm-
ployed in the Cribb Club I was called upon to face some
good men. My first experience was with Harry Allen.
We were to have contested six rounds, but I had Allen
knocked out in the very first round. The gentlemen
present asked to ‘let up’ on my antagonist. This I did,
and he rallied, but made such a poor showing that the
management stopped the fight.

“My next antagonist was George Godfrey, the colored
pugilist. This was to have been a six-round fight, but I
hit the darkey so hard that he quit in the third round.

“Nothing more was done in 188, but the following
year was a very busy one for me. Jim Goode was
pitted against me for a six-round battle. The referee
declared it a draw, but disinterested people say that I
should have got the verdict, as Goode was to all in-
tents and purposes a defeated man.

“My next antagonist was Charley Mitchell, with
whom I fought a four-round draw. Then came my
encounter with Mike Cleary, which was for four
rounds. Despite the fact that Cleary could scarcely
stand atthe end of the fourth round, Billy Edwards
declared the contest a draw.

‘Next in order comes my meeting with Jack Burke.
We were to have fought five rounds, but the first was
so hot and heavy that the Boston police goton the
stage and prevented us from finishing the combat;
they allowed us to finish the other four rounds in a very
tame sparring match. A proposition was made to
Burke to settle the affair in some other city, but the
Trish lad refused.”

After this Kilrain took a long rest, and then he went
to Bangor, Me., and met a giant by the name of Jerry
Murphy, who stood six feet one inch and weighed 200
pounds. Kilrain almost killed his burly antagonist,
and in the middle of the second round put him to sleep
by a right-hander on the jaw.

In 1885, at Cambridge, Mass., Kilrain met William
Sheriff, the Prussian. They were to have fought six
rounds, but Kilrain knocked his antagonist insensible
intworounds. The latter was finally restored to con-
sciousness, and then Kilrain sparred alight round with
Sheriff, who could make no showing with his man at
all.

George Fryer, the British pugilist, was Kilrain'’s next
adversary, and they fought a five-round draw. The
last victim that Kilrain had in 1885 was Jem M’Glynn,
of New Bedford, Mass. This individual, by the exer-
cise of a lot of pedestrianism, managed to last through
three rounds, then he got hit so hard on the jaw that
he quit, refusing to go on.

During the year 1886 Kilrain had many adversaries.
The first one to oppose him was Frank Herald, whom
some of the New York newspapers “boosted” into such
eminence. This is the pugilist of whom it was said
that Mr. James Gordon Bennett offered to ‘subscribe a
purse of $2.000 to fight John L. Sullivan, provided no
reporters other than his own men were allowed to see
the battle. Herald and Kilrain metin Baltimore, Ma.,
and the first-named lasted one short round, Kilrain
sending in such a smashing hit on the jaw that Herald
toppled over insensible.

‘Wm. E. Harding, the sporting editor of the Ponicr
GAZETTE, was referee, but because the police broke in
the ring, he decided the contest a draw, but admitted
thatif the round had been finished and the police not
stopped hostilities, that he would have declared me
the winner, for everyone knew that Herald was
whipped.”

Soon after this Kilrain was hired to spar at the
Theatre Comique, Philadelphia, Pa. The conditions
under which he was to draw his salary were that he
was to meeta fresh man every night, and either best
his opponent or send him tosleep. This Kilrain did.
He began on Godfrey, who got his quietus in the sec-
ond round. When Godfrey was knocked down every-
one thought that his neck was broken, and it was hours

| before he was restored to consciousness. In fact he
years of age. Ihave no regular occupation other than |

has never been the same man since Kilrain’s mighty
right hand came in contact with his jaw.

Tom Kelly managed to stand up three rounds, and |

part of the fourth round.
room in avery demoralized condition. Mind, on the

Then he was taken to his |

list was Denny Killeen. who, though standing up
through four rounds, was badly used up. Killeen was
knocked down seven times in the quarter of an hour
he faced Kilrain. This was a wonderful showing for
an athlete, and the record stands unrivalled.

In 1885 Kiilrain had many glove fights. His first
battle was with Jack Ashton on Long Island. Ashton
had whipped Dick Collier and won fifteen battles, and
many supposed he would easily defeat Kilrain, but
Kilrain won.

“Joe Lannon, of Boston, then challenged me to fight
with skin gloves. A purse was put up by the Cribb
Club, Boston, and Lannon was made a big favorite
because Sullivan, who was then champion, refused to
meet him. Lannon managed to stand up for 13 rounds,
and then a blow on the point of the jaw made him ob-
livious to the call of time, and I won. Richard K. Fox,
my backer, then put up $1,000 with the New York
Clipper and offered to match me to fight John L. Sulli-
van for $5,000 or $10,000 a side. or any man in the world,
for the ‘‘Police Gazette” diamond belt and the cham-
pionship. Sullivan could not be coaxed to fight me
and the match fell through. Richard K. Fox then
handed me the ‘Police Gazette” championship belt
and matched me to fight Jem Smith, the champion of
England, for $10,000 and the championship of the
world.”

Jem Smith, the champion puzilist of England, who
is matched to fight Jake Kilrain, the American cham-
pion, was born at St. Lukes, London, England. He is
24 years of age and has the cut and physog of a pugilis-
tic gladiator. He is well developed and possesses big
muscles, which denote great strength and hitting pow-
er. He stands 5 feet 8 inches in his stockings, and
weighs 182 pounds. The following are his measure-
ments: Chest, 40% inches; waist, 3644 inches; hips, 40%
inches; thigh, 244 inches; calf, 164 inches; biceps, 15%
inches; he has weighed, untrained, 212 pounds; he
made his advent in pugilism in 1882, when he wona
boxing competition open to 140-pound pugilists in Lon-
don; same year he defeated Bob Preston in a bare-
knuckle fight in 8 rounds, occupying 20 minutes, near
London for $40; same year in London won the all Enz-
land boxing competition for 154-pound men; same year
at St. Luke’s, with bare knuckles, beat Liddard. mid-
dle-weight, in 6 rounds; same year beat Snavey, of
Oliver, 168-pound man with gloves, in 4 rounds; in 1883
won the open boxing competition at Bill Richardson's
Blue Anchor, Shoreditch, for middle-weights, defeat-
ing Arthur Cooper, Bill Brand and Bob Preston.

In the same year he fought Bill Davis, according to
the rules of the London prize ring, for $250. It was a
desperate battle, lasting nearly one hour, when Davis
was unable to continue, and Smith was declared the
winner. His next battle was with Henry Arnold. They
fought with gloves, in London, in 1882. Fourteen
rounds were fought in 55 minutes, when Smith was
again hailed the winner.

Smith was then matched to fight Bill Skidmore, who
weighed 16 stone (224 pounds), fora purse. The battle
was fought at Barkee, Eng., Dec..15, 1883, and Smith was
again returned the winner, after fighting three rounds
in 11 minutes.

Woolf Bendoff then challenged Smith to fight with
hard gloves for £20 ($100). The battle was fought in
London in December, 1884. Twelve rounds were fought
in 48 minutes, when the referee declared Smith the
winner. In this battle Smith’s arm was broken by a
heavy blow delivered on Bendoff's head.

In 1885 Smith won the heavy-weight boxing tourna-
ment atthe Blue Anchor, Shoreditch, beating Sugar
Goodson, Jack Wannop and Bill Longer, with gloves.

He was then matched to fight Jem Mace’s unknown,
Jack Davis, for $1,000 and the championship of Eng-
land. Davis had just came from the United States,
where he had not shown the least form to pose as a
champion, having failed to beat Mike Donovan, the
champion middle-weight, and in a boxing exhibition
with a wrestler, Gus Lambert, a Canadian-French
athlete, he had all the worst of the bargain. The battle
was fought on Dec. 16, 1885, at Godstone, England, and
London prize ring rules governed. Only 4 rounds were
fought in fifteen minutes, when Smith was’ declared
the winner, It was a farce as far as a contest was con-
cerned, for Davis had no pretensions to championship
form, and he was no match for Smith, who could evi-
dently have beaten two pugilists like Davis. It was by
this battle that Smith won the championship of Eng-
land, and upon which his name was enrolled as one of
the fistic heroes, and one of the long line of champions
which figures in prize ring history. With al deference
to the ability and prowess of Smith. we must state that
he reached the English championship goal by one
jump, but the ditch he had to clear to reach it was so
very shallow and narrow that half a dozen puuilists
we could name would have been champions if Jack
Davis had been the only parrier or obstacle in their
way.

After the English champion had defeated Jem Mace’s
novice, he was challenged by Alf Greenfield of Bir-
mingham to fight for $1,500 (or £300) a side and the
championship of England. The match was arranged,
and under the management of Mr. George W. Atkinson,
of the Sporting Life, London, the fight was decided at
Maison Lafitte, Paris. on Feb. 16, 188. Smith had the
best of the fight when Greenfield's partisans broke
into the ring.

Jem Mace, the referee, declared the
fight a draw; soon afterward Smith was matched to
fight Jack Knifton, the 81-tonner, ax he is called. The
men met three times; once near Paris, France, the sec-
ond time near London and the third time in London.
On the first occasion Knifton refused to tight, becanse
Smith’s friends predominated, and the police broke up
the fight after two meetings.

It may be noted that Alf Greenfield is the best man
Smith ever met. After trying in vain to arrange an-
other match with Alf Greenfield, Smith issued a chal-
lenge to fight any man in the world, John L. Sullivan,
who was then champion of America, included, Richard
K. Fox agreed to match Sullivan, as the American
champion, to fight Smith for $5,000 or $10,000 and the
“Police Gazette” diamond belt, which trophy was held
by Sullivan and represented the championship of the
world. Ireland was named by Sullivan and his backer,
Richard K. Fox,but when Smith accepted the challenge
and agreed to meet the American Champion, to the sur-
prise and disgust of the sporting fraternity on both
sides of the Atlantic, Sullivan lowered his champion
colors and refused to fight the British champion.

The New York Sun, Oct. 24, says: ‘Richard K. Fox
writes that Kilrain personally selected Mitchell to act
as histrainer and manager, and that Kilrain will be
seconded in the actual fight by a well-known Irishman.
This, he thinks, shonld dispose of the reports that

Kilrain is under British influences that damage his
chances in the fight.”

| . B.-We shall be pleased to furnish any news-
| paperin the United States or Canada with electro-
types of Jake Kilrain, the American champion, and
| Jem Smith, the English champion, now matched to
| fight for $10,000, the ‘‘Police Gazette” Diamond Belt

and the championship of the world, on applieation to
Richard K. Fox.

THE NATIONAL POLICE AO, 8, tnt

TO a SED

ne ay, ° ee
= wit i H\\. MU (mae \ Precast AN \

THEY THREW HIM IN THE RIVER. CAUGHT DEAD TO RIGHTS.

JAMES EISTMAN. A NEGRO WORKING IN A SAWMILL NEAR BRUNSWIOK, GA., IS FLORENCE TAYLOR, A CHARMING GIRL OF NEW LONDON, CT., IS RESCUED BY
MURDERED BY HIS EMPLOYER AND TWO HELPERS. HER BROTHER AT NEW HAVEN, CONN.

: Vrs

NIGHT SOIL IN THE RESERVOIR, :
HOW THE WATER SUPPLY OF POTTSTOWN, PA, IS POLLUTED BY AN UNSCRUPULOUS SCAVENGER WHO HAS BEEN ARRESTED.

So SS =
RE Re en te FP

SS SS

“TWO DEAD.”
AN INCIDENT OF THE RECENT LYNCHING RAID IN WHICH A THOUSAND CITIZENS OF ROANE COUNTY, WEST VIRGINIA, TOOK PART,

a RPE

be SF SS SS

NOV. 6, 10004 Tue NaTIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

ARRAY QTE THANE?

Hi H |
MAHAL HL |

A rea
pits!) (ual

in Ss oe 5
ow TAR Wee Wo

THE LONDON LIONS.

THE DOINGS OF OUR CHAMPION JAR@ KILRAIN AND JEM SMITH THE ENGLISH HERO ABOUT THE GREAT METROPOLIS,

THE REFEREE.

His Thoughts and Opinions
on Matters of Sport-
ing Interest.

I understand the late 72-hour go-as-you-please
match in Philadelphia was not a financial success. Another at-
tempt will be made to make a monetary go of one Thanksgiving
week, when Littlewood. the English champion, Albert, and
ilart, the winner of the late match, will be the principal contes-
tants. Six-day races are not looked upon with favor by the
shrewd public nowadays, simply because they are well aware
that one-half the competitors in these alleged contests are not
trying to win, but only trying to kill time.

Paying pedestrians to engage in alleged six-day

races was the rock that the long distance pedestrianship struck

on, and it gave the once popular six-day races a heavy set back.

The public desire to see a genuine contest, such as
were managed by Peter Duryea in Madison Square Garden, and
by Daniel O'Leary, at Madison Square Garden, and in the
American Institute in this city, when the ‘Police Gazétte”
champion won the international O'Leary belt, and beat all pre-
vious 6-day records. The Philadelphia race will not catch the
public, even if the management try to make the public believe
that records are being beaten.

A great many things have come to the surface since
the international races which prove that the American sloop was
handled immeasurably better than her Scotch rival. On the
Volunteer in the first race little schemes were being worked con
tinually to vet all the speed possible out of the yacht. First all
the crew would be to windward, then as the wind lightened half
of them would shift to leeward, and at times when the breeze
was lightest all the crew were to leeward.

This accounts for the angle which the Volunteer
took going down to the Narrows, when everyone thought she
had more wind than the Thistie. Then again, after she got
through the Narrows and caught the freshening breeze, it was
the weight of half the crew to leeward that gave her such @ list
and made it look as though she had a fine breeze.

Men were stretched along by the tackles which
were secured to the sheets, and as the breeze lightened the
sheets were eased a trifle to give the boat life,and were flattened
again whenever there was a little more air. An outrigger was
used to trim the jibtopsail. So many were the contrivances
used for getting a little more speed that Mr. Wylie, the repre,
sentative of the Thistle, was amazed, and declared after the race
that he had “had no idea the Americans sailed their yachts so
well.”

On the Thistle, on the other hand, nothing at all was
done after the start. Sheets were trimmed flat, the crew were
assigned a fixed position, and all manceuvring thereafter was
contined to the helmsman. This accounts in great measure for
the “deadness” which characterized the Thistle’s movements, as
contrasted with her lively antagonist.

Before the race, when the Thistle slipped about in
such a lively manner, her crew were jubilant and made derisive
gestures toward the American boat, such as shaking ropes’ ends
ather. Even the Scotch gentlemen aboard could not refrain
from making derogatory remarks about the Volunteer, till Mr.
Fish, whe represented the New York Yacht — was forced to
reply: ‘i

**Gentlemen, the Voluuteor is our fastest yacht.
We think that she is a very fast boat, and, if you beat her, you
certainly beat the best we have.”

After the start all was changed. The sluggish
Yankee had become a dangerous ral. As Capt. Barr looked
over his shoulder and saw the despised centreboard creeping
stealthily up on his weather quarter he became alarmed. But
all was not yet lost. Whenever the Thistle wished to get to wind-
ward of her English rivals all Capt. Barr had to do was to put
down his helm, and by one or two vigorous shoots he could luff
out on his rival’s weather bow. So now he tried the old trick,
but it did not work. The Volunteer met him luff for lufY, and the
more he pitched the nearer the centreboard came.

Finally, in sheer desperation, he came about, a
beaten man, He had discovered, to his amazement, that the
Thistle had been outwinded, and he lost his head. After that,
asa gentleman described it, “Barr acted like a frightened lion.
He was running all over the deck, and carrying the tiller with
him.” It took but a very few minutes to convince Capt. Barr that
his boat was inferior, and fur the rest of the week he was a

man without heart.

Ithink that every one will now concede that the
races have proven that the centre-board type of boat 1s swifter
under almost all ordinary conditions of wind and water than the
cutter, Undoubtedly the Volunteer was more skillfully directed
in the race than the Thistle was, but this superiority alone
would hardly account for its easy and signal victory. Part of
the honor for this triumph belongs to the designer of the Ameri-
can boat. id yet the British apparently are determined to
tempt fate here again under similar clreumstances to those
under which they have met their recent defeats.

Another cutter isto be built in Scotland, anda one
more attempt is to be made to carry the cup to Great Britain.
There is a possibility, of course, that this attempt may be suc-
cessful. Nevertheless, the next race would create far more tn-
terest on this side of the water if the British showed a stronger
disposition than they are now displaying to learn wisdom by
their reverses.

By the way. John Harvey, of Halifax, N. 8S., has
been engaged to design a cutter for a syndicate of wealthy Nova
Scotians, who want to have a shy at the America’s cup. Mr.
Harvey is known there principally as the designer of the Ameri-
can-built cutter Bedouin, but before the Bedouin was built he
had won a reputation in England as a yacht designer, having
turned out the fastest schooner on the other side, the Miranda,

Mr. Harvey said a few days ago that he recently
designed a cutter tor Mr. E. H. Bentall, the oldest yachtsman
in England, that was intended to beat the Thistle, after her re-
turn to Scotland, if she had defeated the Volunteer. Mr. Ben-
tall's wife died a few months ago, and he became ill. He
recently wrote Mr. Harvey that he had given up the idea of
building the cutter, as he was getting old, having just turned
his 92d year.

Mr. Harvey said that he knew that the Thistle
would not beat the Volunteer the day he saw the cutter in the
graving dock. He wrote this to his friends in London and
Liverpool. His criticism was that there was ‘not enough ship”
in the cutter; too much had been cut off her forefoot. He says
that Mr. Charles Sweet coincided with him on this point. When
he saw in a morning newspaper that a party of Nova Scotians
were going to challenge for the cup he wrote them a letter, in-
closing the clipping from the paper, saying that the design he
had created for Mr. Bentall would be at their service for the
same price that Mr. Bentall would have paid. This design is for
a cutter 90 feet on the water line, 16 feet beam, and 14% feet
draught. She will have 16 feet overhang. Mr. Harvey says she
will beat the Volunteer; but he thinks that Mr. Burgess and
Gen. Paine, after a careful study of the boss centreboarder’s de-
fects. can make a sloop ten minutes faster than she is. New
York yachtsmen wonder if the Nova Scotians will expect the
Americans to chip in to help build the challenging boat, as they
did for the Halifax Jubilee races.

The London ‘‘ Field” says: ‘‘John Jamieson, of
the Trex, has communicated with the New York Yacht Club an-
nouncing his intention to compete
year. Itis reported that Mr. Jamieson has already given orders
for the building of his vessel, it: being his inter h that the
desizuer, builder and crew shall be Irish. Mr. J iesou. though

an Irishman, is one of the best known yachtsmen in England,
and he has the merit of being able to sail his own boat. He isa
Dublin man, and a member of the well-known whiskey-distilling

firm of that city. is = .

I see that a writer in a Western contemporary
breaks away at a two-minute clip and describes Surrey, the dam
of Henry Clay, as a pacer. I do not know from what source he
derived his information, but he would find he had made a gre-
vious error if he ever attempted to air his knowledge in the
presence of those who frequented the Long Island race tracks
between 1826 and 1830, when the little short-necked mare was on
the turf. She never paced a rud in her life, but was as pure 4a
gaited trotter as A man ever threw a leg over. She could trot in
about 2:40, which was very fast in those days.

Please do not let us hear any more about Surry be-
ing « pacer, for it is only waste of time and space repeating the
old story over again. Henry Clay had not a drop of known pac-
Ing blood in his veins. The dam of Andrew Jackson was said to
have paced and trotted, but. her breeding is unknown, and
neither way of going — have the benefit of a doubt.

It is becoming oueuiig to propound puszsles hav.
ing horse trades as a central theme. While this paper. has no
horse editor, there are several people upon its staff who can tell
a horse at sight,and who are not slow at arithmetic. A puzzle has
occurred to one of them, and he gives it to the world at large.

Suppose A sells-a ‘horse for $100to B. Then Bin
turn sells him to C for $110, and the animal dies. What does each
make or lose? The problem looks simple but it is not. In the
first place, A had stolen the horse. His profit would be natur-
ally $100. A difficulty presents itself just here, for B paid A in
counterfeit money, while C paid B by a note. B was indicted for
passing counterfeit money. In revenge he had A arrested for
stealing the horse, and both went to the pen.

To add tothe complications, D, the real owner of
the horse, came along and claimed the hide and hoofs. The
claim was disputed by C, and consequently upon the ensuing
argument C’s doctor’s bill was $7.75. In the mean time a lawyer
had gotten hold of the note and tried to collect it. C compro-
mised the matter by licking the lawyer, and grabbing the note
tore itup. At present there have been no more developements.

One of the sensations of the turf this season was
George E. Smith, who is known as “Pittsburg Phil,’ the youth-
ful successor of “Plunger”? Walton on the race track. He is only
24 years old, of slender build, light blue eyes, and a beardless
face, He does not look more than twenty. When he was 14
years old he went to work in a cork factory out in Pittsburg, but
he got playing the races more and more until he finally gave up
everything else. “One of his pool-room acquaintances was a
printer on the Pittsburg Dispatch named Fred Mignery, whom
everyone knows as “‘Blg Sam,” and the two have generally trav-
eled together ever since. P ,

On being asked ate og if he didn’t think it was
about time for him to stop and invest his capital in some lezgiti-
mate business, he replied, ‘No; I intend to keep right on. Why
should I stop? I'am getting rich by it. I find myself betting
more and winning easier every day. I have no system of bet-

ting, and [ seldom make up my mind ona horse until I see him
Bookmakers’ odds never affect me one way or
If I want a horse I buy him, no matter what they

out for the race.
the other.
offer.

**I don't believe in dreams, tips, signs, or supersti-
tions, and never bet @ penny on one in my life, Horse racing is
business. I believe the best horse wins on respectable tracks—
the only ones I go to—in nine cases out of ten, and I back him
when Ican. I can tell you what any one of the prominent race
horses has done in races for six years back, and I know all their
pedigrees. My memory is as good as any guide book in that
respect. Of course it seems foolish to say it. but picking the
winners seems to be getting easier to me all the time.”

I think everything concerning racing is as hazard-
ous as the tossing of a penny. This even applies and in many
ways to the horse owners who have large fortunes invested in
equine flesh.

Dwyer Brothers, of Brooklyn; A. J. Cassatt, of
Philadelphia; Capt. S. S. Brown, of Pittsburgh; Congressman
W. L. Scott, of Erle; “Lucky” Baldwin, of California; August
Belmont and Mrs. George L. Lorillard, ot New York; E. J. Cor-
rigan and many others have not only enormous sums of money
invested in their thoroughbreds, but are obliged to make ex-
penditures in their care and support that would be ruinous to

any but well-filled purses did the season turn out diastrously.
zs -e * fe

Yet Dwyer Brothers, the butcher boys of Brooklyn,
apart from the vicarious conduct of a meat market, which they
practically neglect, have no other business than the racing of
fast horses, and in that they have half a million dollars In-
vested. The risks they assume are appalling when fairly consid-
ered.

Experts say that the average running life of a horse
is only ten years, and that but one out of twenty nominated to
start on this brief but eventful career amounts to anything
among the very rapid racers.

eee ae

Take the case of Tremont. As a two-year-old he
won more money and more races consecutively than
any race horse that ever lived. If he had come to
the post in form this season he stood to win the Dwyers $10,000,
for every three-year-old stake was at his mercy. But he went off
a leg and will never run again, having been retired to the stud.

Of course many criticise the Dwyers’ severe
method of training, and say that they are responsible for the
great horse's ruin. But the butcher boys know no sentiment in
what to them is simply a business. They run horses to get all
the money out of them they can, and when the racers become
useless they are promptly retired.

MN a

The ruling of the Marquis of Ailesbury off the Eng-
lish turf created quite a sensation‘in turf circles on both sides ot
the Atlantic. From information, I have ascertained that the
stewards of the Jockey Club at Newmarket, after a searching
investigation extending over the last fortnight, on that date an-
nounced their decision in the case of the suspicious running of
Everette In the Harewood Plate at York, Aug. 25. The result of
the inquiry is that the Marquis of Ailesbury, owner of Everett.
and John Tyler, his trainer, are warned off Newmarket Heath
and all the race courses under the jurisdiction of the Jockey Club
for life.

The charge against E. Martin, who rode the horse,
was dismissed, the jockey cautioned as to his future conduct. It
was proved to the satisfaction of the stewards that Lord Ailes-
bury, in the presence of Tyler, his trainer, gave orders to Martin
not to win the race, but that Martin, finding himself in a promi-
nent position towards the finish, hesitated to carry out his orders,
the result being a dead heat,

The stewards further satisfied themselves that sim-
ilar orders had been given by Lord Ailesbury upon previous oc-
casions. Notices have been served upon Lord Ailesbury and
Tyler warning them to keep off Newmarket Heath. Lord Ailes-
bury is arranging to sell all his house property at Marlborough.

The famous jockey, George Fordham, died recently
at Brighton, England, of consumption. Fordham was among
the best jockeys that wore silk in England. One of his first
prominent wins was the Cesarewitch handicap in 1857, when he
rode the American-bred Prioress for Mr. Ten Broeck, she win-
ning at 93 pounds after a dead heat with the three-year-olds El
Hakim, carrying the same weight, and Queen Bess, carrying 66
pounds. There were thirty-four starters that year.

It is said of Fordham that he made but two mistakes
in his life. He turned in the saddle to look at Macaroni and he
once trusted a French financier. Middle-aged English turfites
still draw a deep breath when they tell how, in the Derby of 1863,
Chaloner, or Macaront, came with a rush and Lord Clifton was

| beaten at the post.
for the America cup next |

Prof. Harry R. Brick was recently tendered a testi-
monial at the Athenium Gymnasium, 50 Dearborn street, Chi-
cago, which was a big success,

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

TO CORRESPONDENTS.

THE “POLICE GAZETTE” RULES.

All the important fights and boxing matches of the
present day are contested under the ‘*‘ POLICE GA-
ZETTE’’ RULES, which have been pronounced the
only rules under which a match can be SQUARELY
FOUGHT to the satisfaction of all parties. Copies of
these rules can be obtained free on application to

RICHARD K. FOX,
**Police Gazette” Publishing House,
Franklin Square, New York.
N. B.—Correspondents will please put their address to their
communications.

Cc. C. H., Boston.—Yes.

W. W. Mc., Boston.—No.

W. J., Halifax, N. S.—No.

J. J., Hartford, Conn.—No.

DONALD, San Antoniv.—No.

M. 8., Harper’s Ferry.—No.

L. J. H., New York.—A wins.

M. McD., Austin, Pa.—B wins.

C. B., White Plains, N. Y.—M won.

S. B.. Baltimore.—No. 2. 92-5 seconds.

D. McF., New York City.—Twenty-one.

R. R., Webb City, Mo.—New York City.

CONSTANT: READER, New York.—Twice.

M. W., New Britain, Conn.—Sixes are high.

L. L., Brownville, Texas.—We have not the rules.

L. J., Augusta, Me.—The coin is of no great value.

M. SWEENEY, Mitchell, Col.—Forty-four years of age.

M. J., Baltimore.—Kllrain is the champion of America.

D. J. H., Port Morris, N. Y.—1. No. 2 Sixes are high.

S. W. W., Syracuse, N. Y.—Upwards of 200 tons per day.

F. G., Wappeton, Dakota.—The shield is the head on both.

D. K., Shoohan, Idaho.—1. We have not his address. 2. No.

J. L., Dooney Harris and Patsy Marley fought on May 4, 1862,

S. W., Jackson, Miss.—Kilrain and Smith fight January 3, in
Spain.

G. R., Lockport, N. Y.—1. Sam Hurst never fought Wm. Perey.

height.

J.B. T., Pittsburg.—We cannot advertise firms who do not ad-
vertise. ;

M. W., Selma, Alabama.—Ten Broeck’s
beaten.

Z. Y. L., Madison, Wis.—Send for the “Life of Tug Wilson” to
this office.

Cc. F. L., Keokuk, lowa.—Dan O'Leary stnsidi 5 feet 7
in height.

M. T. B., Lansdale R. 1.—We do not understand your query
thoroughly.

G. G., St Louis, Mo.—Tom Sayers was never beaten by
Bob Brettle.

Cc. C., New York.—1. Bill Darts was champion of England in

W. C., Kansas City.—1. No.

S.N., Angelica, N. ¥.—Dooney Harris was born in London,

Puri, New York.—Procure a copy of “The Sporting Man’s
Conpanton.””

T. Q., Tombstone, Arizona.— Dan Kerrigan was born in Cork,
Ireland, in 1835.

S. H., Jersey Shore,
John C. Heenan.

C. M., North Adams, Mass.—Jack Dempsey and Jack —
only tought once.

Cc. D., Auburn, N. Y.—Yes; Bob Travers and Jem Mace ‘fought
once as opponents.

J. A. G., Prescott, Arizona —B, not having 66 in his hand, can
not claim the point.

H. R. W., South Riverside, Cal.—Bet your money on C.’s
chances of winning.

S. J., Norfolk, Va.—It was Doherty and Collyer who were to
fight near your city.

K. L., San Jose, Cal. —
P. R. in this country.

Sport, Washington, D. C.—1. Yes.
elephant in America. :

C. B., Black Rock, N. Y.—Fred Archer, the English jockey,

M. K. L., Havre de Gras.—Bob Brettle was born at Portobello,

Grenada, Miss.—Duncan C. Ross is not over 6 feet in

time has never been

\% inches

2. Kilrain was born in Greenport,

Pa.—Chas. Perkins boxed and trained

Ben Caunt never fought a battle in the

2. Jumbo was the largest

P. E., Clairfield, Pa.—John Morrissey was born at Temple-

more, Ireland, in 1831.

J. W. B., Pottsville, Pa,—Carney’s record will be found in the

prize ring department.

A READER, Greenleaf, Kan —Send for ‘The Champions of the
American Prize Ring.”

J. L. YEAGER, Strasburg, Pa.—1. Yes.
Ann street, New York.

W. M., Livingston, Mont.—Tom Sayers and John C. Heenvn
fought on April 17, 1860.

CONSFANT READER, Buffalo, N. Y.—1. Slade claims that his
father was Irish. 2. No. °

Bat HOCKING, Telluride, Col.—No; they forfeit the right to
draw or play by passing.

R. S., Jersey City.—1. Madison Square Garden.
once. 3.4*McCaffrey won.

R. J., Rochester N. Y.—It was in 1881 Memento won the Spin-
away Stakes at Saratoga.

M. H., St. Catherines, Can.—Joe Coburn’s battle with Ed Price
lasted 3 hours 20 seconds.

E. D., Cheyenne.—If you want to enter the Navy apply at the
Navy Yard, Brooklyn, N. Y.

B. M., Victoria, B. C.—Dan ua the Irish champion, never
defeated Tom Cribb. 2. No.

M. E., Kinderhook, N. Y.—Write to Cridge & Co., 24 Punts:

eight street, New York City.

D. W., Great Bend, Kansas.—Edward Hanlan, the oarsman,
is a native of Toronto, Canada.

Lees Bros., Jamestown, N. ¥.—Write to Arthur Cnaniiove,
922 Ridge avenue, Philadelphia.

M. W., Peoria, [11.—Tom Hyer and Yankee Sullivan fought at
Maryland. 2. A wins the wager.

J. W. B., New York City.—Prof. Mike Donovan. A letter ad-
dressed to this office will find him.

P. 8., Pottsville, Pa.—John L. Sullivan was the first to enter
the ring when he fought Paddy Ryan.

F. D., Buffalo, N. Y —1. John Morrissey and John C. Heenan
were matched to fight in 1858. 2. Yes.

B. O., Selma, Ala.—A wins; you can not claim a forfeit unless
articles of agreement have been signed.

A. A., Eastport, Me.—Arthur Chambers did defeat Billy Ed-
wards for the light-weight championship.

Rurvs, Lee, Jefferson Co.,
baseball players have received that amount.

W. A., Richmond, Va.—Tom Sayers held the champion belt of

J. G. S., Bismarck, Dakota.—Send for “The Sporting Man’s
Companion.” It contains a history of the affair.

B. N., Baldridge, Pa.—No. 3. The bet is atrick bet in which
B had no chance to win, and we decide it a draw.

2. Dick & Fitzgerald,

2. Only met

C. B., Freeport, Miss—Sen¢ thirty cents-to this office for “The 7

Sporting Man’s Companion ;” it contains all records.

W. P., Rosedale, Ind.—John L. Sullivan weighed 195 pounds
the day he fought Paddy Ryan for the championship.

J. M., Freeland, Pa.—Edwin Forrest was married in 1837. 2.
Dan Donne]ly never held the champion belt of England.

J. D., Schenectady, N. Y.—Address secretary of the Young
America Cricket Club, care of Record office Philadelphia.

DONALD, Omaha.—1. John C. Heenan never won a battle. 2.
He never fought any oye in America but Jobn Morrissey.

Miss.—Your friend loses. Severa)

W. S, Baltimore, Md.—Bob Brettle was defeated by Tom
Sayers on Sept. 20, 1859, in 7 rounds, fought in 15 minutes.

R. G., Plain River, Il.—Jem Smith and Jake Kilrain are to
fight according to London prize ring rules without gloves.

M. H., St. Catherine, Canada.—Send your full name and ad-
dress and we will mail you a “Sporting Man's Companion.”

B. B. ADMIRER. Syracuse, N. Y.—The umpire’s decision is final
and there is no appeal, although both decisions were unfatr.

B. M., New York.—Harry E. Dixey loses the $100. Kilrain and
McCaffrey never boxed or fought as opponents, and M wins.

D. K., Big Rapids, Mich.—1. Barry Sullivan is no relation ‘9
John L. Sullivan. 2. He was born in Dublin, Iretand, in 1824.

SUBSCRIBER, St. Louis, Mo.—It was on April 29, 1879, that
Paddy Ryan and Prof. Wm. Miller boxed wiih blackened gloves.

W. J. 8., Danville, Pa.—1. An umateur must not contend for
® money prize. 2 Send for “The Police Gazette Book of Rules.”

S. W., Harrisburg, Pa.—Jemmy Carney defeated Jimmy Mit-
chell on June 18, 1887. 2. Tickets were $100 each to see the fight,

8. A., Bangor, Pa.—Tom Sayers was defeated by Nat Langham.
32. John L. Sullivan had several backers when he fought Paddy
Ryan.

L. C., Long Island.—Byran Campbell, who was matched to
fight Tom Walling, is the same pugilist who fought Harry
Hicken.

8. L,, Kansas City, Kan.—Deaf Burke killed Simon Byrne on
May 30, 1833, after a severe contest of 99 rounds, lasting 3 hours
6 minutes. ,

G. W., Almonte, Ontario.—Tom Sayers received the champion
belt June 22, 1857, after his victory over the Tiptun Slasher, on

A. C., Springfield, Mass. +4. In 1858, at Philadelphia, Matt
Rusk, the pugilist, did keep ‘a sporting house. 2. On North
Fourth street.

Cc. J. P., diteabown, Pa. —Send 30 cents to this office. for ‘The
Sporting Man’s Companion.” It contains all such events and
sporting statistics.

J. C., Chicago.—On Sept. 5, 1861, Ethan Allen, with his running
mate Socks, bect Flora Pemple in three straight heats on the
Fahion course, L. I.

J. 8. ConEN, Brunswick, Ga.—The game may be cuenied out
after taking a trick, but nothing less than 1,000 wins. No dif-
ference in three-handed.

G. L., Southboro, Mass.—1. Jem at the English pugilist,
was born at Bristol, Eng., in 1761. 2. He died at London, Eng.,

B. G., Leadville,Col.—Harry Morgan did send fortelt and chal-
lenge to this office in 1881. 2. We do not know. Write to John
Wood, 208 Bowery, New York.

M. J. B., Richmond, Va.—A and B having beat C’s throw, C
has noclaim on either first er second prize; A and B throw off
the tie for first and second prize.

Cuas. A., Chicago.—Wnm. Perry, better known as -the “Tipton
Slasher,” was a game, resolute pugilist, but never possessed any
very strong claims to scientific acquirements.

G. S., St. Paul, Minn.—The $1,000 Richard K. Fox sent to
Paddy Ryan to bet in the ring the day he fought John L. Sulli-
van, Feb. 7, 1882, was covered by Sullivan’s friends.

H. P,, Big Rapids, Mich.—Tom Sayers was never defeated by
Joe Goss. A wins, as they never met in the prize ring. 2. John
L. Sullivan measures 44 inches round the chest. 3. No. -

J. W., What Cheer, Iowa.—Tom Hyer and Country Mce-
Closkey fought on Sept. 9, 1841, to settle an gid dispute, 101
rounds were fought, when the battle was given to Hyer.

G. B. C., Fall River.—Nat Langham whipped Tom Sayers in
61 rounds, lasting 2 hours 2 minutes. Sayers was 6 years
younger than Langham, the day they fought, but Langham
weighed 3 pounds more than Sayers.

D. and P., Ironton, O.—Paddy Ryan and John L. Sullivan never
fought tor the “Police Gazette” diamond belt. 2. Jake Kilrain
offered to fight any man in America for the trophy, and no one
agreeing to meet him, Richard K. Fox handed the belt over to
Kilrain to defend against all comers.

S.M., Selma, Ala.—1. Teddy McAuliffe, the “Butcher Boy,”
and Johnny McCabe fought at Weehawken, N. J., Sept. 9, 1861.
McAuliffe won in 130 rounds, lasting 2 hours 36 minutes. 2.
Teddy McAuliffe and Billy Kelly fought a draw at Jamaica, L, [.,
Aug. 28, 1866. Fifty-five rounds were fought in 1 hour 32
minutes,

H. M.J., Baltimore.—Dick Wood, of dareytowie, N. Y., is a
native of Ireland, born in the County Waterford. Emigrated to
this country in the year 1847. He brought with him on the ves-
sel a pair of Irish birds, a cock and hen, which were presented
to him by the Marquis of Waterford, as he was in his service on
the other side. From the eggsof the above hen were hatched
and raised a family of invincible—gamesters. He has bred
game fowls yearly, from ‘the above date and sold the’same to
parties in all the prominent cities in this country, and possesses
arecord of the hundreds sold by him, that were matched and
fought, not a single one ran or flew from the pit; also, of the
large number he handled and pitted in forty years, he declares
never lost a battle. He recently sold his entire stock and re-
tired from the business with the most wonderful history:in the
traternity.

M. J. D., Omaha.—The following is a record of the “battles
fought by Tom Sayers:, He beat George Sims, £50 to £25, 4
rounds, 5 minutes, Longreach, Feb. 28, 1854; beat Harry Poulson
fought Aaron Jones, £200, 62 rounds, 3 hours, banks of Medway,
darkness, Jan. 6, 1857; beat Aaron Jones, £400, 2 hours, 85 rounds,
banks of Medway, Feb. 19, 1857; beat Bill Perry, £400, 10 rounds.
1 hour 42 minutes, Isle of Grain, June 16, 1857; beat Bill, Benja-
min, £400, 3 rounds, 644 minutes, Isle of Grain, Jan. 6, 1858; beat
Tom Paddock, £300. 21 rounds, 1 hour 2 minutes, ‘Canary
minutes, near Ashford, April ;'1859; At.. Etchingham, England,
Sept. 20, 1859, Sayers fought the renowned Bob Brettle for £600,
Sayers’ backers wagering £400 to Brettle’s £200; Brettle stood 5
feet 734 inches, weighed 144 pounds and was seven years ‘Tom's
junior; Brettle had fought Malpas and Jack Jones and beat
Roger Coyne, Sam Simmonds, Bob Cobley and Tom Travers; the
fight was a short and desperate one; Sayers gained first blood
and Brettle won first knock down in the fourth round by coun-
tering Sayers heavily on the jaw; seven rounds were contended,
when -Brettle dislocated hig right shoulder and Sayers was de-
clared the winner; ‘Alec Keene and Jein Hodgkiss seconded
Brettle, while McDonald and Brunton seconded Sayers; Brettle
was no match for Sayers; the latter’s great victories over Perry,
Benjamin, Paddock and Brettle had caused him to be looked on
as next to invincible and at one time it appeared as if he would
be allowed to become the possessor of the champion belt.

C. C. S., Goshen, Ind.—1. A royal flush 1s a sequence of five
cards of one suit beginning with ace high. 2. Yes. 3. Jake
Kilrain claimed the title of champion from John L. Snilivan,
through the latter’s refusal to accept Kilrain’s challenge when
Richard K. Fox posted $1,000 with the New-York Clipper and
challenged Sullivan to fight Kilrain for $5,000 to $10,000 a side
and the “Police Gazette” diamond belt, representing the heavy-
weight championship of the world. The following is Kilrain’s
record: Jake Kilrain was born in Greenport, N. Y.,-on Feb. 8,
1859. He stands 5 feet 10% inches in height and weighs 190
pounds. He gained his first notoriety as a pugilist in 1880, when
he knocked out Dangerous Jack, of New York, in 3 rounds. On
March 19, 1883, he bested Pete McCoy. at Sullivan’s beneiit in
Boston. In April he defeated John Allen in a 4-round glove con-
test. The following month he met and easily vanquished George
Godfrey, the heavy colored pugilist, in 8-rounds. In October,
1883, Kilrain met Jem Goode, the newly-arrived English: pugilist,
and after fighting 6 rounds the referee decided it a draw, but ad-
mitted Kilrain to have had the best of it all through the contest.
Kilrain has had several friendly set-tos with John L. Sujjivan.
The champion has always declared Kilrains the best man he
ever faced. He is game, quick, active and a powerful hitter.
He fought a draw with Charley Mitchell at Boston on March 24,
1884. Kilrain also met Mike Cleary in a similar contest in Madi-
son Square Garden on June-26, 1884... Billy Edwards was-referee
and declared the contest a draw. Kilrain also boxed William
Sheriff, the Prussian, at Cambridge, Mass. The conditions were
4 rounds, Queensberry rules, and Kilrain had decidedly the best
of the encounter, and could have knocked Sheriff out if he had
desired todo so. He also defeated Jerry Murphy, the Bangor
giant; Alf Greenfield, who flourished as champion of England,
Jack Burke, Jack Ashton, the winner of a dozen battles, fought
a draw, 1 round, with Frank Herald, and whipped Joe Lannoen,
whom every sporting man of Boston, except Jim Keenan, looked
upor as the best man next te Sullivan.

betas =
ee Mes

ould

five

Jake

ivan,

when

rand

. side

CAVY-

rain’s

when

efit in
econ-
jeorge
tober,
igilist,
at ad-
yntest.
jivan.
an he
nitter.

Madl-
eferee
illiam
is were
1e best
1e had
Bangor
gland,
fought
lannen,
looked

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

. terest is already manifested over the affair and judging from the

F | declared won by Conley amidst deafening applause. Smith was
Pl GI I IS | IC NEWS | led to his corner, as thoroughly a whipped man as ever put a foot

| in an 18-foot ring.

A Close and Accurate Re-
sume of the Arenic Bat-
tles of a YYeek.

Frank Herald, the well-known heavy-weight borer,
has opened a first-class sporting house at 817 Walnut street,
Philadelphia. P

Charley McCarty is now in training fora fight with
Jimmy Mitchell. This will be Mitchell’s first appearance in the
ring since he was defeated by Jem Carney. If McCarty wins
the battle his backers will be prepared to pit him against the
winner of the McAuliffe-Carney battle.

It is announced that Harry Phillips, a well-known
millionaire sportsman of this city, will manage John L, Sulli-
van’s European trip, the profits to be equally divided. The
champion, atter touring the English provinces and Ireland, will
zo to the Continent and thence to Australia.

On Oct. 17, the Brooklyn heavy-weight pugilists,
Jim Glynn and Jack Fallon had another meeting and again
failed to azree upon the terms of their proposed fight. Fallon
said he would put up $500. and Glynn said thrt wasn’t worth his
while. He couldn't afford to neglect his saloon business to train
for $500. He wanted to fight fur $1,000 aside. They will make
another attempt on Friday to come to terms.

At Duluth, recently, Pat Killeen said he was anx-
jous to meet Patsy Cardiff in a 15-round fight, Marquis of Queens-
verry rules. Since that time he has publicly challenged him.
Cardiff replies to him by saying that he will only fight Killeen
according to London prize ring rules and to & finish. Killeen is
yet to be heard from on this matter. Cardiff's proposition is
fair and it is the only way to settle who is the best man.

Warren Lewis, the well-known sporting man, has,
during the past two months, been trying to make the Casino at
Hoboken, N. J., the paradise for exponents at boxing. Week
after week he has put his shoulder to the wheel and engaged
several of the champions to contend in fistic rivalry, and the
contests have been so interesting that the Casino now is nightly
the scene of several first-class genuine boxing matches.

At Boston, on Oct. 17, N. D. Sullivan, the tempor-
ary stakeholder in the international prize fight between Jimmy
Carney, England’s light-weight champion, and Jack McAuliffe,
the light-weight champion of America, met representatives of
the two pugilists, and paid the $4,500 held by him over to the
new stakeholder, a well-known Boston sporting man, in their
presence. Mr. Sullivan had his receipt returned to him, but no
receipts were taken from the final stakeholder, who locked the
money up in his safe, until Frank Stevenson, of New York, the
referee, gives his decision. As the case now stands there will
have tu be a fight or a forfeit. Carney, who returned from New
York, will go into training.

The fistic encounter between Jack Oempsey, of
Brooklyn, the middle-weight champion, and John; Reagan, of
New York, for $2,000 and the middle-weight championship of
America, will be decided in the month of December. Great in-

confidence of both men’s partisans there will be a large amount
of money wagered on the result. Dempsey, of course, will enter
the ring a heavy favorite, and he should be on his reputation,
for he has fought more battles than Reagan, and his opponents,
that is, the majority of them, have been first-class men; Reagan,
on the other hand, has demonstrated, time and again, that he is
a clever, plucky boxer, and although he is overmatched he will
make a great battle with Dempsey the day they meet in the
ring. Reagan is con ‘ident he will be returned the winner on the
day of the fight, but the month of December will decide the
question.

Billy Madden had an argument with Henry Dixey,
of “Adonis,” regarding McAuliffe and Carney, Sullivan and Kil-
rain. Dixey said it was his idea for Sullivan to fight two men in
one day, 6 hours intervening. John F. Donnelly, manager ot the
Academy of Music, asked Dixey if Sullivan had a double stomach
to fight two men and said that he would bet Dixey $5,000 that
Madden could find two men to lick Sullivan although the best
man was out of the country now, Jake Kilrain. Dixey asked
Madden who Kilrain ever fought. Madden answered that Kil-
rain had defeated just as good men as Sullivan, and asked Dixey
who did Sullivan whip? Dixey said that McCaffrey bested K‘l-
rain and Madden said they never met. Dixey then bet Madden
$100 that McCaffrey did box Kilrain. The matter was left to the
N. Y. Daily News to decide. This is what the News published
Oct. 17: “Saturday night, in an argument’ with Billy Madden,
Manager Dixey wagered $100 that Dominick McCaffrey ence con-
quered Jake Kilrain. McCaffrey went to Boston once to meet
Kilrain tor a purse. After the Pittsburgh boxer reached Boston
and caught a glance of Kilrain he decided that the purse offered

There has been a misunderstanding between John
Fleming, the English champion’s manager, and Charley Mitch-
ell in connection with the international prize fight between K
rain and Smith. Fleming did: not like the idea of Kilrain and
Mitchell retaining the ‘Police Gazette’? diamond delt; and claims
that Smith should have the prize ring championship trophy for
a limited period to exhibit as well as Kilrain. Mitchell refused to
give up the belt or deposit it at the Sporting Life Office until
thirty days prior to the fight. Fleming claimed that Mitchell
had nothing to do with the belt when he informed Fleming that
he was Kilrain’s manager. Fleming informed Mitchell that
Richard K. Fox had informed him that his representative to ar-
range all the details of the match was Wm. E. Harding and
that he desired to know whether it was the latter or Mitchell.
Oct. 18 Richard K. Fox received the following cable:

Richard K Fox, Franklin Square, New York :

Who will be your representative in the international prize
fight between Smith and Kilrain, Charley Mitchell or Wm. E.
Harding? What should be done with “Police Gazette” diamond
belt Kilrain retains? JOHN FLEMING.
As soon asthe cable was received the following was sent in
reply:

John Fleming, Manager Jem Smith, care of Sporting Life, London,
England:

SPORTING NOTES.

Rumors and Realities of
Athletic Amusements
Fully Reported.

_ Patsy Kerrigan is out with achallenge to fight Jim-
my Carrol of Holyoke.

Jobnny Reilly,

a boxing school at 23 Bleecker street, New York.

Samuel Sterling, of Bridgeport, Conn., has started
in an attempt to propel a bicycle to New Orleans.

Would like to know the whereabouts of Jack Wil-
liams, formerly of Crysler and Williams.
Crysler, POLICE GAZETTE office.

Prof. Geo. Siler of Chicago (formerly of this city),
the well-known boxer, will be tendered a grand ball by the West
Side Athletic and Pleasure Club of Chicago, at Apollo Hall, in
that city in November,

Advices from Sydney, New South Wales, state that

letes were sent off on their journey.

the well-known boxer, has opened

Send address to F. J.

At Mount Vernon, on Oct. 22, the Spartan ifarriers
held a cross-country race. At 4 o’clock eight lightly-clad ath-
The sharp wind whistled
merrily as they ran northward on the trails which had been plen-
tifully laid out for them by Chas. Reifner, who etarted half an
hour before tolay out acourse. From the start, the old dis-
tance runner, C. Hemzman, led at a terrific pace, and was fol-
lowed by the rest of the field, who thought that he would be
beaten in the end. The trail led through Pelhamville to New
Rochelle, and thev south toward Mount Vernon. On the home
run every effort was made to overhaul the leader, but, although
he was exhausted, he won by 10 yards. W. Lewis Frendenstein
second, J. L. Cook third, and George Reimer, A. J. Mitchell, E.
F. Hanbold and W. E. Knox in the ordernamed. The distance,
over 9 miles, was run in 1 hour 9 minutes 29% seconds.

On Oct. 21 Billy Dacey finished his engagement at
the Casino, Hoboken, N. J., in a glove contest with Jack Lane,
the light-weight champion of Troy. Lane was vicious, and let
drive some savage lunges that would have floored a bigger man
than Dacey had they reached home. Dacey watched his oppor-
tunities well, and continually smashed Lane full in the face.
Lane is a willing fellow, and at the end of the first round, though
he was hit hard and often, he went to his corner smiling. Dacey
went at him savagely in the second round. Getting in a hot
one on the stomach, he brought Lane to his knees. The third
round was sharp and decisive. Dacey played Lane very cleverly.
At first flushing him in the face with both hands, until he got an
opening for a right-handed swing, he then let go. The blow

My representative to arrange all matters satisfactory to bring
off the International prize fight without any hitch, will be Wil-

liam E. Harding. He will sailon the Servia November 12. He
will act in conjunction with Kilrain and Mitchell to bring off the

William Beach and Edward Hanlan are in strict training for
their single-scull race for $5,000 and the championship of the
world. Betting is two to’one on Beach.

The Custom House authorities seized the ‘‘ Police
Gazette” diamond belt at Liverpool, and Kilrain and Mitchell

caught Lane on the side of the head and knocked him against
the back wall of the stage. Before he could recover Dacey sent
home the right, landing low down on the jaw. It sent Lane
down in a heap, head foremost. He lay on the floor insensible,

fight in a fair and straighttorward way. According to rules
governing the “Police Gazette” diamond belt, Kilrain can re-
tain it until thirty days prior to the fight, when st mast b6 placed
in custody of Sporting Life to be handed to the wintier, to beheld
according to rules. Regards to Kilrain, Mitchell and yourself.
Ricuarp K. Fox.
Billy Dacey and Frank White, the light-weight
pugilists, fought four rounds in the Casino in Hoboken, N. J.,
on Oct 17. Dacey won after a hard battle, giving White his first
defeat. They had had it in for one another for several years
back, and they came together looking for blood. Both were fine
as silk, and they fought wickedly from beginning to end, but
that White was no match for the lad that gave champion Jack

had to pay seven guineas duty before they were allowed to put
the‘now historical trophy on exhibition.

Mike Boden, of Philadelphia, and Bill Gabig, of
Pittsburgh, fought with gloves at Wilmington, Del., on Oct. 17.
Gabig broke his arm during the contest.

tage up to the time the accident occurred.

The giove fight at the Casino, at Hoboken, Oct. 22,
was a terrible batttle, between Harry Langton of New York and
Warren Lewis’ Unknown, two heavy-weights.
and tongs from the word go. Four rounds were fought. Frank
Allen, the referee, declared the battle a draw.

Boden had the advan-

It was hammer

und the fight was given to Dacey.

The first deposit of $1,000, posted by Richard K.
Fox when he offered to back Jake Kilrain to fight Jem Smith
for $5,000, the “Police Gazette” diamond belt and the champion-
ship of the world, and the $1,000 sent over by the English cham-
pion’s backer, when the articles of agreement were signed and
the great match ratified, were yesterday (October 26) forwarded
by the New York Clipper, who were temporary stakeholders, to
the Sporting Lyfe, London, who are final stakeholders In the
match. The following is the document sent to the backer of
Kllrain, which explains:

Mr. Richard K. Fox:

Dempsey a 4-round race was apparent early in the fight.

and nose were knocked out of contour.
RownD 1—Dacey led with his left for the and land

The
gloves were too large to permit any cutting, but White's mouth

Dear Sir: We have sent draft, amount $2,000, posted at this
office for the Kilrain and Smith mutch, to the Sporting Life, Lon-
don. Sent to-day. Yours truly,

FRANK QUEEN PUBLISHING Co. (Limited),

At Wercester, Mass., on Oct. 20, Charles Dobey,
the wrestler, came off a victor in a wrestling contest with Dan
Connors, a local boxer and athlete. The contest was best two in

. three for a purse of $50 a side. Mythel J. O'Keefe was tho master

clean, sending White back several feet; then he smashed hin
plump on the nose.

the nose, and White countered heavily on the shoulder.
hands on the ribs with telling effect.

the ropes.
ner. There Dacevy drove a swinging left hander flush in White’
face knocking his head half way up. Another rally at clos
quarters ended the round.

clean hit. White tried arush, but Dacey jabbed him with hi

puff up like a sponge.

caught him as he fell.

the tide, but Dacey outfought him at every point.

ducked. Then he rushed at Dacey.
White clinched. They locked for an: instant, then Dacey brok

face that very nearly ended the fight.

and rushing in hugged Dacey, and they pegged away at ha
arms until the call of time.

4—Dacey knew he had his man, and went in and fought fe

of the stage.

hander into his face.

and by clinching he managed to pull through the round.
Referee Joe Denning decided Dacey the winner.

White attempted a counter with the right,
which Dacey cleverly ducked. Dacey led again, getting in on
Then
they closed in and had a sharp rally at half arms, using both
Dacey stepped away,
feinted, and then smashed White on the mouth, sending him on
This nettled White, who rushed Dacey into his cor-

2—Dacey sent his left on White’s forehead. It was a straight,

left on the nose, sending him back. He followed White up, and
swinging the left, landed on his mouth, causing his lips to
It was hot fighting, and White was
getting weak. Once, twice, three times went Dacey’s left on his
face, the last one lifting White clean off his legs. The ropes
It was Dacey’s fight from this out, and
he set in to whip hisman. White was game, and tried to turn

3—Dacey went for White with a straight lead for the stomach
and landed a hot one. White tried ta counter, but Dacey
The latter met him.

the hold, and shoving White away Jed with a good, straight
left on the face, sending White on thg ropes. The rebound sent
him back half way across the stage. White rushed for a clinch,
but Dacey met him again with a left-hand upper cut full in the
White wouldn't give in,

all he was worth. Leading, he caught White on the nose, and,
then following, forced him into his own corner, where he pun-
ished him severely. White tried to clinch to save himselX.
Getting out of the corner he rushed Dacey up against the back
Dacey shoved him away and sent a terrible left-
White was very weak, but he held on,

In regard to the international prize fight for the

G. M. KEIL.

When the Toronto Rowing Club’s senior four won
the championship of United States at Chautauqua this season,
and followed up this success. by easily securing the Canadian
championship at Ottawa, there was a well-defined feeling, not
only among the club members, but among outsiders as well, that
the crew shoul! be sent to England in 1888. It was felt that the
crew’s performance amply justified the bellef that it would be
able to repeat its brilliant victories In| English waters, and 80
enthusiastic were some gentlemen over the project that they at
once took it up. Liberal subscriptions were promised by these
gentlemen, but others argued that it was an inopportune time to
boom the scheme. There was plenty of time, so the latter con-
tended, to consider the matter and arrange the necessary de-
tails. Within the past week the subject has again been taken
up, and, with a view of ascertaining their opinion, a reporter of
this city interviewed several of the club members. All: viewed
the invasion favorably and claimed the club was unanimous on
the point. The crew are willing to go, and the only difficulty is
to raise the funds necessary for their expenses. The matter will
come up for consideration shortly at a meeting of the club, and
it seems most probable that the club’s champion crew will be
found next year battling for aquatic honors on the Thames.

In astable at East Newark, N. J., on Oct. 22, John
Fox, of Chicago, and Hugh Coyne, of Newark, fought toa finish
inside of 6 minutes. No admission was charged, but contribu-
tions were received from the 200 onlookers. The fight was with
bare knuckles, ostensibly for $500, Johnny Mack, of Newark,
called time. Frank Cavanagh, who would not fight John Martin
last week for $21 gate money, was second for Fox, while Martin
was second tor Coyne. Fox is a strapping big fellow. He weighs
160 pounds, and stands nearly 6 feet high In his boots. Coyne is
3 inches shorter, but weighs only 2 pounds less. Both were clad
in the most approved fighting rig. They Just touched hands and
sailed in. Fox got in the first telling blow, which caught Coyne
on the side of the head. Then the slugging began. Fox had all
the best of it. He fought Coyne allover the ring. Many of his
blows were well parried, but others landed heavily on Coyne’s
neck, chest and face. At the end of the round Coyne was spent,
and Fox was seemingly as fresh as when he went In. In opening
the second round Coyne hit Fox a facer which seemed to call up
all his latent energy and made his hitherto smiling face look
stern. He forced the fighting, and, driving Coyne into the cor-

of cer ies and Thomas Doon was the referee.

The well-known and popular James E. Sullivan, the
president of the Pastime Athletic Club, was recently presented
with a heavy gold watch and chain by the members of the club,
as a token of their appreciation of the way he has promoted ath-
letics. The watch bears an elegant inscription.

A number of visitors from Haverhill, Mass., called
at the POLICE GAZETTE office last week, and after inspecting the
entire building, departed highly pleased with the vast extent of
establishment. Among them were J. H. Conner, J. B. Conner,
F. H. Wyman, J. S. Faller and Lyman L. Worthen.

3 Harry Gilmore, ex-champion light-weight pugilist
of Canada, and Billy Myers, champion light-weight of Ilinots,
had a bloody fight toa finish at St. Croix, near the Minnesota
State line, on Oct. 19. Gilmore was knocked out in the fifth
round, and Myers took the $3,000 stakes. Some $6,000 changed
hands.

The Fall meeting of the Memphis Jockey Club is
ended. ‘ A meeting of owners of horses who|had entries in the
stakes to be run during the Fall meeting of the club was held
yesterday, and this course resolved on, on account of the death
ot the president of the club, Henry A. Montgomery. The latter
was well known in this city and much respected.

. Punch Vaughn, an English light-weight pugilist,
made his first appearance In an American ring at the Atheneum
Cinb, in Boston, on Oct. 18, and was knocked out. Wie adver-
sary was James Godfrey. of Boston, a brother of George Godfrey,
the coldred champion middle-weight of America. Among the

it spectators were John L. Sullivan and Jem Carney.

Shou]d Kilrain succeed in conquering Jem Smith,
the British champion, and retain the “Police Gazette” diamond
belt and the championship of the world, he will receive, with
his share of the ticket money, about $15,000. This is a sum well
worth battling for; bes‘des, look at the money he will receive
from exhibitions after the contest, if he is successful.

At Meriden, Conn., on Oct. 22, the 27 hours’ walk-
ing match for the championship belt of C ticut, which has
been twice won by Alfred E!son, the contestants were Elson, of
Meriden, and Darrow, Boardman and Joyce, of New London.
Score at 3 P. M.: Ejson, 101 miles 12 laps; Boardman, 80 miles 3

championship of the world, Planet, the POLICE GAZETTE corres-
pondent, writes as follows:

The great international prize fight between Jake Kilrain, the

champion pugilist of America, and Jem Smith, the champion of

by the Crib Club was not large enough. James Keenan then
handed Kilrain $1,000, and when McCaffrey and his manager
were going back to New York Kilrain found McCaffrey in a
saloon and said: ‘McCaffrey, you came here to fight, and I do not
want you to go back without a match.’ ‘The purse the Crib
Club offers is not worth fighting for,’ said McCaffrey. ‘I will
fight you, then, for this,’ said Kilrain, placing the two $500 bills
on the bar. McCaffrey said, ‘Wait until I see what my backer
says.’ McCaffrey left and Kilrain waited, but McCaffrey never
returned.”’

At Ashland, Wis., on Oct. 15, the long-pending
flove tight between Mike C. Conley, the Ithaca Giant, backed by
John D. Hayes, the well-known sporting man, and O. H. Smith,
the champion of Nebraska, was settled: in a business-like man-
ner. ‘The men fought according to ‘Police Gazette” rules, and
about 700 persons paid to witness the battle. Mike Dormandy
was referee. Danny Needham seconded Smith and Charley
Gleason Conley, but their tasks were not arduous, as the result
of the battle shows. Pat Varley and Dr. Gregory were the time-
keepers. The gloves, said to be four ounces, were handed to
Chief of Police Schwartz, who examined them with a critical eye
and returned them to Mr. Hayes with a nod of satistaction which
brought a yell from the crowd, which was supplemented by
“Bully boy Schwartzy” from a deep bass voice Following this
the referee stepped to the edge of the stage and announced the
conditions of the match, which were that there were to be six
rounds of three minutes each, and one minute to rest between
each. The man who should be knocked down and fail to get up
at the end of ten seconds would be declared defeated. He then
introduced the principals to the audience, after which they
shook hands. The word “time” had barely left the lips of the
referee before the Ashland man had thrown his whole weight

> upon Smith. The blow was made in one mighty effort to knock
out his man from the start and the effect was Sullivan-like, for
Smith showed the white feather almost from that very moment.
Both men clinched, but were separated, when, whirling to the
left, Conley got in a daisy cutter under Smith's ear that sent
him into the ropes and at the feet of a member of the common
council. Untangling himself he came at Conley and made about
his only effort to fight, but was slugged right and left and sent

to grass twice by crushing blows in the right place. Both men |

locked arms and waded into each other until time was called.

ROUND 2—Smith went into his corner rather groggy, and, des-
pite the efforts of his friends to back him up with words of en- |
couragement, there was everything to indicate that he was |
bested when the men were called from their corners. Conley |
kept up his tactics of the first round, forcing the fighting from |
the start, sending the sledgehammer blows showering upon the |
ished the Smith
partizans. Smith was on the floor most of the time, hanging to
He onee succeeded in bringing Conley
One frightful
blow, swiftly followed by another, fell thick and fast upon Smith,

head of his adversary ina r that ast

the legs of his opponent.
to the floor, but they were soon upon their feet.
who vainly tried to avoid them. Both were upon their knees
then up again, but Conley escaped every lunge his less science:
opponent made, and sent him sprawling upen the floor.
Smith had been given two or three more blows on the “kisser,”

a ‘stem-winder” on the jaw anda tapon the “beak.” he was

unable to-put up his “dukes.” and fell to the floor—stiff.

After

England, is beginning to be the principal topic of conversation
in sporting circles in London, Manchester and Birmingham.
Since the leading professors of boxing. Donnelly and Mullins,
have announced that the American champion is—to use their
language—a good ‘un, and a better man than they had the least
idea, Kilrain has found a host of followers, even among mei-
bers of the Pelican Club, the members of which are find-
ing the stakes for Smith. Many are going to witness the
battle, so they clalm, but it is very doubtful if one-half who offer
to bet ponies they will see the fight ever reach the trysting
place, if the arrangements made are carried out strictly to the
letter, for each side is to be allowed fifty men and the tickets will
be £50 each, which will keep many of the keepers ot
sporting drums away, even if they are accepted as proper persons
and no objections made against them by either Richard K. Fox’s
representative or John Fleming, Smith’s aide de camp. Judg-
ing from the movements at the Sporting Life office, the ma-
jority of those who will go to the fight will be a few distinguished
Americans and a sprinkling of the nobility, including Sir John
Astley, the Marquis of Queensberry. and other distinguished
noblemen and members ofthe great Pelican. Kilrain was misrep-
resented before he arrived here and many expected to see in the
American champion, a big, coarse, ungainly country lout, with
a big, coarse twang ot “I calculate” and “I guess I will wallop

the English champion out of his boots;”? but they were mistaken,
for when they saw Kilrain they saw a well-dressed, muscular-

manly deportment, and lacking the coarse, uncouth ver-
nacular of the general run of prize fighters. The Mar-
| quis of Queensberry pronounced him a_ brilliant fellow,
and even the members of the Pelican, who are putting up the
stakes for the English champion, were surprised (that the puzgi-
list who comes to this country as champion of America, and
carries the “Police Gazette” diamond belt as a badge of office to
prove he is such) at his quiet, unpretentious way, and no doubt
ifhe were in need of backing, and did not have the leading
backer of pugilism and all athletic sports in the United States,
Richard K. Fox, the Pelican club would try to fill the gap. After
the debut and appearance of the American champion, at St.
| James Hall, and the display of his great muscular develope-
ment, those who had judged that Kilrain was a
champion, have changed their opinions, and many who will
not stand Smith now offer to accept the odds offered by
Smith’s admirers.

Tattersalls. The followers of the prize ring from the time Tom
King whipped Jem Mace and defeated John C.
and the new supporters of the prize ring in this city, Birming-
ham and Manchester firmly believe that Kilrain’s display with
. Charley Mitchell was not the American champion’s true form.

looking and very intelligent specimen of humanity, of gentle- |

far-off

Judging from the betting market. no matter
whether the sporting men who are coming from the land of
Stars and Stripes back the American champion or not, before
the day arrives for what every one believes will be a great bat-
tle, Kilrain will have plenty of supporters and there will not be
the odds of 3to10n Smith which is now-the market price at

Heenan,

1 But that he is a far better man than the best critics have the

Jem Mace thinks

PLANET,

least idea of and moreover the best Judges think Kilrain filled
the position of a jockey sometimes is compelled to ride by orders,
Kilrain is like a new hat which only needs

: fitting and compressing into proper shape to make the great-
Couldn't move within the required 10 seconds, and the fight was | est and truest fit any championship ever had.

laps; Darrow, 68 miles 11 laps; Joyce, 65 miles 12 laps.

Matsada Sorakichi, the ‘*Police Gazette” Japanese

wrestler, left the other night for Buffalo.

He has been engaged

to meét all comers at catch-as-catch-can and Greco-Roman
wrestling during the week. He said he offers $25 to-any one
whom he cannot throw in 15 minutes, and to the one who can

throw him in that time he offers $200.

Billy Muldoon and Dennis

Gallagher will each have a try at him.

The following explains itself :
To the Sporting Editor:
DEAR Str—I hereby accept W. E. Gibbs’ proposition to wrestle

Greco-Roman style for $250 and net gate receipts.

I will sign

articles of agreement and post money as soon as articles are re-

ceived.

Match to take place at Muskegon, Mich., on Wednes-

MATSADA SORAKICHI.

Recently B. A. Bartlett, of Randolph, N. Y., at a
distance of 25 feet, hit common white beans, holding his rifle in
various positions while firing. He split in two a postal card that

was set up edgewise.

Using a 22-caliber ball he shot through a

32-caliber pistol barrel, the bullet splitting on a knife blade at
the further end of the revolver barrel, and each half of the bullet

breaking an egg.
the target stand,

He ignited # parlor mateh held by a person at
knocked the ashes from cigars and concluded

by shooting beans from the nose of # friend.

The ‘‘ Star,”

New York, Oct. 21, says: ‘** William

EF. Harding, who is going to represent Richard K.*Fox in the
great international prize fight between Jake Kilrain, the Ameri-

can champion, and Jem Smith, was born in Toronto, Canada, of
Irish parents, and is a nephew of Ned Neale, the once famous
Ned Neale, better known

Irish puyilist.

as the Streathem

Youth, was a famous heavy-weight pugilist, who fought eighteen
battles, won eleven and lost three, and received forfeit from Ned

Baldwin.

He beat Ned Baldwin, Tom Cannon, Jem Burn, Bill
Gaynor, Dave Hudson and Jack Nicholls, and was one of the

greatest Irish pugiliste who ever stood in the prize ring.

At Philadelphia, on Oct. 19, the Princeton College
football team scored an easy victory over the eleven of the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, winning by 61 points to 0,
was well played, but at all times the Princeton men had the ad-
vantage, their superior weight keeping the ball In Pennsylvania’s |
The teams were as follows:

grounds,

back, Price, 88.

sylvania—Captain, Mirl, 68; Dewey, 's8; Speath, 88; W. S. Gra-
ham, M. 8.; Sypher, '90; Zeigler, M.S., and Ross, a8.

back, Hulme, ’89.
Graham.

At Boston, on October 21, the long pending glove
fight, between Joe Lannon of Sonth Boston and Billy Mahoney’s

Western unknow

to the contest both men tipped the beam at 190 pounds.

non’s seconds w

James Powers, the runner, performed a like office for Grady.
| Lannon was in the pink of condition and appeared confident,
while the “unknown” evidently was too fat to do good work and
lacked heart, Lannon was awadred the fight and purse,

Princeton
George, °89; Janeway,

The game

Rushers Left

ner, stretched him flat on his back with a blow on the jugular
vein. It was a knock-out blow, and Coyhe remained dizzy all
> he evening from its effects. He was apparently unconscious
when time was called for the third round, and Charile Grimes,
of Newark, handed over the contributed money to Fox.

One of the rising heavy-weight boxers of this coun-

try is John W. Fallon, the Brooklyn giant. At ali times he is
ready to fight all comers,-and he backs up his opinion with
money. Fallon was born in Brooklyn, Dec. 1, 1868, and is there-
fore in his nineteenth year, stands 5 feet 11 inches tn height and
weighs 185 pounds in condition. His first fight was against
James Maugher, at Flatbush, June 16, 1884, 8 rounds, soft
gloves, police interfered. At Mike Donovan’s sporting house in
Brooklyn, N. Y., he subsequently whipped Mike McAuliffe in 1
round; Frank B. Patterson, ot New York, in 4 rounds, and Pat
Brennan in 3 rounds, for gold and silver trophies, At the annual
boxing competitions under the auspices of the New York Ath-
letic Club, at Tammany Hall, New York city, March 28, Fallon
won the heavy-weight championship by defeating George Lam-
bert in4 rounds. July 11, at Mike Donovan’s, Boooklyn, he
stopped Tom Kelly in 2 rounds for a gold watch, His first ap-
pearance as a professional was against Alf Powers, at East New
York, Nov. 26, 1885. The police interfered after 7 fierce rounds
had been fought with hard gloves, mostly in Fallon’s favor. Feb.
9 fought a 5-round draw, off hand, with Johnny Banks, the col-
ored champion. At the Theatre Comique, Philadelphia, March
22 to 27, defeated Roger McCluskey, Denny Kelleher, Bill Dunn,
Jack Dougherty. May 3, at Clarendon Hall, New York, bested
Jack Smith, in 4 rounds. Fallon was brought before the public
by the veteran middle-weight pugilist, Mike Donovan, who pre-
dicts that Fallon will take rapid strides tothe front of the heavy-
weight class. He is aterritic hitter and quick and clever for
heavy man.

The first boxing, entertainment of the Manhattan
Athletic Club, took place at the club house, 524 Filth
avenue, on Oct. 22. Admittance to this entertainment was
limited to members of the club. The attendance was large,
the capacious club house being filled .withe members. The
boxing was first-class and the affair was voted asuccess
by all present. Mr. H. E. Burmeyer acted as_ referee,
Messrs. McEwan and Turnbull as judges, Mr. G. A. Avery as
timer, Mr. W. J. Swan as master of ceremonies, and Mr. G. A.
| White as assistant master of ceremonies. The 4-round bout be
tween Jack Kenny. of New York city, the feather-weight who
tought Billy Davis three times, and W. A. Halligan, of the

Quarter back, Hancock, 68. Half | Nassan Athletic Club, of Brooklyn, was a slashing one. Each
Captain, Payne, ’91. Full back, Ames. Penn- | received staggering right handers in the opening round, There

Half back, Colladay, ’91 (Windsor), Full back

n, Jim Grady, was decided,

William Daly. Jr, was the referee. Previou

Lan
Murphy

ere his brother Jim and Johnny

Quarter

The contest was
| announced to be 10 rounds for a purse of $750, gotten up by
' triends of the contestants, the winner to receive $500,

was victorious in seven well fought rounds, completely knocking
| his opponent out.

Lannon |

Was some great hitting in the second and third rounds, Halligan
getting in the most effective blows and stopping or evading the
> | counters. Both were dazed for a second by right-hand hits on the
Jaws in the fourth round, but Halligan did some good left-hand
work, and the judges gave the decision to him, One of the best
contests seen in a long time was the one between Billy Davis, of
Harlem, and Benny McGill, of New York city. MeGill did all
the leading, and had away the best of the first three rounds,
bleeding Davis from under the left ear and escaping with only
amouse under hisownright eye. Davis got to work with his
right on the ribs and evened up matters in the fourth round,
- while he almost fought MeGill to a standstill in the fifth round,

though MeGill got in some blows that were dangerously near to

being Knockouts. MeGill did most of the leading In the last

round, and landed often and hard with his léft, Davis

fought him to the ropes once. MeGill landed two good face hits
| just as time was called. The referee decided im favor of McGUL

but

THE NATIONAL POLICE. GAZETTE: NEw YORK. _

mn TTT) Free rrr ee —<—7

—— SER “WY ae i ’ a Ni! hh
el oo | wl Gee i MATa

m i | iH
id pe

yl ii)

DANCING TURKEYS. ; AH GUNG'’S CRUEL CRIME.
HOW A SMART BUT INHUMAN PHILADELPHIA BARTENDER AMUSES HIS CUS- HOW A VILLAINOUS CHINAMAN BARBAROUSLY MURDERED HIS WHITE MISTRESS

TOMERS WITH THE PERFORMANCES OF UNEDUCATED POULTRY. AFTER A NEW FASHION IN ALTA, ILLINOIS.

par

Hk With
| i i Hi iI

Hi im = SS

HE FIRED IT IN HER MOUTH. SHE WAS CRAZY.

A CRUEL MONSTER, MCALISTER BY NAME, PERPETRATES A HIDEOUS OUTRAGE ON MRS. CELIA BENSON OF MARYVILLE, NODAWAY COUNTY, MO., TRIES TO |
HIS WIFE IN DAYTON, TENNESSEE. HER YOUTHFUL SON.

pean

PANT MTT TATUNG eat

IMPALED ON A TARGET SWITCH. HE HAD TO PUT ON HIS COAT.

ERNEST TENDLEMAN MEETS WITH A HIDEOUS AND HORRIBLE ACCIDENT NEAR MILLIONAIRE ED. SCHEFFELIN, PROPRIETOR OF THE TOUGHNUT MINE, IS CALLED
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA, TO ORDER BY A HOTEL WAITER AT CARSON, NEVADA,

ror " rin mM nee

HG AVMMIN NL

‘HIT aH wii
ths WAM HM
UVQA WULgdN AH
NOU SAA LH th
ANNNM Aiii

AIM Ith

Tada

y FRENCH DUEL.

Two “Prominent” Southerners
Jackson County, Ga. Have a
Fight and Kill a Bystander.

A special from Gainesville, Ga., Oct. 22, says: A
tragedy took place at Hoschton, Jackson county, a
station on the Gainesville, Jefferson and Southern
railroad, about 8 A. M., in front of Hosch Bros.’s store,
the parties engaged in the affair, being William B.
McCants, a merchant of Hoschton, and Joe Blalock,
Palmour & Smith's bookkeeper, of Gainesville. Your
correspondent, after some inquiries as to the cause of
the difficulty, was put in possession of the following
facts:

Mr. Blalock owns a farm in Jackson county, about
one mile from Hoschton, which he rented to a man by
the name of Kilgore for the year 1887, and furnished
him rations to enable him to make his crop. Kilgore
refused to pay for the advancement, and Blalock sued
and obtained a judgment. Some cotton belonging to
Kilgore was levied upon, and he filed an illegality to
the execution. Being justice court day. Mr. Blalock,
with his counsel, ex-Judyge J. B. Estes and Mr. W. F.
Findlay, went down on the early train to Hoschton,
arriving there about 8 o'clock. Judge Estes had took
breakfast before leaving home, but Blalock apd Findlay
left without eating, Blalock taking a lunch with him.
On their arrival at Hoschton, Blalock and Findlay re-
paired to the store of Hosch Bros., where they lunched,
during which time Mr. W. B. McCants walked into the
store, and passing by Blalock and Findlay, halted a

few steps beyond them, and was engaged in looking at |
Blalock advanced to where he |

something when Mr.
stood and said.

“Bill, I understand that you said that I was no better
than a d—d rogue. Did you say it?

Mr. McCants made some reply to the query, which
was.not satisfactury, and, turning around, walked
toward the front door, When about thirty or forty
feet from Blalock, he stopped, faced about and walked
up directly in front of Blalock, and said:

“Joe, you are armed, and I am not.”

Blalock, pulling out two Smith & Wesson double-
acting revolvers, one thirty-eight and -one thirty-two
calibre, said:

‘That shall not be in your way. Hefe are two pistols.
Take your choice, and we will shoot it out.”

McCants made no reply, but soon disappeared out of
the front door. ‘Blalock put the two revolvers away
and returned to his lunch. In about five minutes Mc-
Cants came to the front door of the store, armed with
a double barreled shotgun, and asked Mr. Russ Hosch,
oné of the proprietors, if Joe Blalock was in the store,
and added that he intended to shoot him on the spot.
Mr, Hosch hurried to where Blalock and Findlay stood,
and told Blalock that McCants was at the front door,
armed with a double-barreled guz, and was going to
shoot him down.

Blalock at once stepped to the front door, but was
detained by Hosch, who took his arm and insisted upon
his not going farther, but Blalock urged Mr. Hosch to
let him loose, and when Hosch released his. arm Bla-
lock stepped to the front door and down to the ground,
and holding his hands up, said:

“If you are coward enough to shoot me with a
double-barreled shotgun, when you know that I have
nune, and when yourefused to fight me with pistols,
go ahead.”

McCants wasabout ten paces from Blalock at this
time, and he stepped a few steps to the rear, bis gun in
- the position of ready. About this time Mr. Haynes, a
section boss on the railroad,and Jim Beard ran up and
took hold of the gun, Haynes being in front of Mc-
Cante and between him and Blalock. McCarts had his
left hand on the gun, while Haynes held it with his
rizht, the barrels elevated. McCants drew a revolver
and fired at Blalock by reaching around Mr. Haynes,
but the ball failed to hit its mark, and again from his
safe position he reached around Mr. Haynes and let
drive another leaden messenger at Blalock, who stood
fully exposed to bullets and with empty hands.

McCants still continued to throw his bullets, and
Blalock whipping out his No. 38, began toswap balls
with him. After two shots Blalock’s revolver failed to
act. He threw it down upon the ground, and drew his
32 but before firing some one said that Haynes was
killed, and not to shoot again. When Haynes fell to the
ground, MeCants got down behind him,.and here the
shooting ceased. Blalock went to Hoschton on busi-
ness, and did not expect to see McCants, but from
threats that Kilgore had made, he thonght it likely that
he might have a difficulty with him. It is uncertain as
to who shot Mr. Haynes, as the shooting was general,
and while it is hoped that he will recover, his life
hangs by a brittle thread, asthe ball passed entirely
throngh his body, having entered below his right
shoulder and coming out through his left breast. Mr.
Blalock was at his post to-day, and while he regrets
very _much that Mr. Haynes was shot, he saya that he
feels justified in protecting himself against Mr. Mc-
Cant;s desperate efforts to kill him. Mr. Blalock isa
brother to Billie Blalock, now deceased, who was so
well and favorably known in Atlanta. He hasa wife
and two children, and is one among the best book-
keepers in the State. His friends concur with him in
his opinion that he is justifiable in acting as he did, and
they will stay with him till the last day inthe morn-
ing.

SHE WAS THE PICTURE OF HEALTH.

A special from Angusta, Ga., October 22, says: An ex-
tremely sad and sensational occurrence was witnessed
by the attendants upon the recorder’s court this morn-
ing. .Two Augusta factory girls appeared before the
court on the charge of fighting. Among the witnesses
was Mrs. Emma Lakey, a respectable woman of
the factory district. Judge Dunbar presided, and

‘Lieutenant Hood was the officer of the court. Mrs.
Lakey was the first witness called. She advanced to
the witness stand, where the oath was administered,
when she held a hands in compliance with the
rules, answered yar and immediately fell upon the
floor dead. A few minutes before she wag the picture
of health, being a large, rosy-cheeked woman, and
just before being called upon was laughing with
friends. The body was removed and an inquest held.
The jury returned a verdict of heart disease.

=o Sete epaae > CO Te ae

_ A DESPERATE WOMAN GAMBLER.

The most desperate gambler at Aix-les-Bains this
autumn is a woman. Greek by birth. She does not take
her seat at the table, an account of her sex. but plays
everthe shoulders of sterner man in 100-franc bills;

and she risks
bility that she might put down 100 sous. This woman
has a face that a painter might take as an unlovely
model. The expression is that of a ferret, and the rat-
like countenance has its resemblance to a rodent in-
tensified by a nervous twitching of the tightly-com-
pressed, thin lips, and the conical chin. The small
eyes stare from under a mass of grizzled gray hair;
the skin is red and guiltless of the softening applica-
tion of anything hke poudre de riz. She does not de-
vote much attention to her costume, which consists of
a black dress, not too well made, a black jet bonnet,
and, like the true yzambler she is, no gloves. While
she plays she keeps shifting and counting the white
and blue 100-franc notes. When called upon to give

| change, she takes gold from a purse; but, as a rule,

she despises the metal and deals — in paper.

A NEGRO MURDERED BY HIS EMPLOYER.

[SUBJECT OF I LUSTRATION. ie

W. P. Coffman, owner of a sawmill three miles from
Brunswick, Tenn., quarreled with a negro employee
named James Eistman, and the negro struck him.
Eistman disappeared the next day and a tew days
after his body was found in the river near the scene of

| the difficulty. At the inquest one Thorn, who was em-

ployed by Coffman as an engineer, testified as to the
trouble between his employer and Eistman, and added
that on the night of the quarrel Charles Coffman,
Charles Weber and Dick Walters asked him (Thorn) to
take part in the lynching of the negro, whom they. had
confined in Coffman’s house. The three men drove the
negro in front of them to the river and with shotguns
and pistols riddled him with bullets. . A sack of stones
was then placed about Eistman’s neck and the body
was thrown intothe river. Coffman isin jail and the
other two are at large.

KILRAIN AND SMITH.

t{SuBJECT OF ILLUSTRATION.]

London seems to enjoy Kilrain as a big treat. He is
the lion of the day among the swells and sporting men
of England. We give this week again scenes from his
life in the English capital and a picture of the swim-
ming match between Jem Smith and Roberts, which
was won by the former.

CURE FOR THE DEAF.

PECK’S PATENT IMPROVED CUSHIONED EAR
DRUMS PERFECTLY RESTORE THE HEARING and
pores the work of the natural drum. Invisible, com-
table and always in position. Conversation, even
whispers, heard distinct’ ie Send for illustrated book
of testimonials. Free. Hiscox, 853 Broadway, N. Y.

THE ‘‘ POLICE GAZETTE” IN ENGLAND.

Smith. Ainslie & Co., Booksellers. &c., 25 Newcastle
street, Strand. London, have been appointed agents for
the sate of the PoLicE GaZETTE in Great Britain. News-
dealers, booksellers and others who desire to handle
the Potice GazETTE and our illustrated books, are re-
quested to communicate with them at once.

Ricwarp K. Fox.:

I received your circular Mond night. I oe in
my ad. this morning, Tuesday, so I won't get left, as I
know your paper to be the best advertising medium in
the U. 8. Yours very truly,

. A. Van Dycx.

TO READERS.

Don't send money for goods to this office. We can-
not undertake to purchase for any one. Send direct to
the advertiser always.

Letters to advertisers should be inclosed in sealed
envelopes, t bearing (upon the the outside) the sender's ad-

reas written across the end, in addition to the adver-
tiser’s address, written lengthwise as usual. This is an
almost infallible prevention of loss and disappoint-
ment. Letters so treated are returnable to the sender,
unopened, if they fail of delivery.

‘orrespondents abroad are cautioned against sending
foreign postage stamps, which are useless asa remit-
tance; post office orders can invariably be obtained,
and should be used exclusively.

TO ADVERTISING AGENTS.

Hereafter no.commission will be allowed to: any
Agent who has not previously placed trade in these
columns.” On account of the continuous system of cut-
ting my rate by the offer of dividing the commission
with the advertiser, it is evident agencies can atford_to
transact business for asmaller percentage, and in order
that they will maintain my price to. their customers,
the rate of commission is reduced to 10 per cent..upon
all orders received on and after this :

RicHarD K. Fox,
Publisher Police Gazette,
April 1, 1887. New York. s

TO ADVERTISERS.

Attention is called to the fact that no new accounts
are opened for advertising, and that cash must in all
cases accompany an order. Persons who are disap-
pointed because their cards do not. a: ap
are those who omit to comply with this rule. : -

‘ALL Advertising Agencies are forbidden to quote the
POLICE GAZETTE at less than regular rates, and notified
that orders from them will not be received unless they
exact full rates from advertisers.

Copy for advertisements must reach this office .b
Tuesday at1P. M., in order to insure insertion in fol-
lowing issue.

BOOKS THAT EVERY ONE SHOULD READ.

Gin “eign Sothant: or, New York by Daylight and

Man Traps of New York. A Full Expose of the Metro-
politan Swindler.

New_York by Day and Night.
Glimpses of Gotham.

New York Tombs; its Secreta, oniencae: Crimes and
Mysteries.

Mysteries of New York Unveiled. One of the most ex-
citing books ever published.

Fare by poaetant. The Gay Life of the Gayest City in

he Worl¢

Paris Inside Out; or, Joe Potts on the Loose. A vivid
story of Parisian life.

Secrets of the Stage; or, The Mysteries of the Play-
House Unveile

Great Artists of the American aes. Portraits of the
Actors and Actresses of Am

James Brothers, the Celebrated ‘Outlaw Brothers.
Their Lives and Adventures.

Billy Leroy, the Colorado Bandit. The King of Amer-
ican Highw. aymen.

My mcs of Mormonism. A Full Expose of its Hidden
Yrimes.

Assassin's Doom. Sequel to Guiteau’s Crime. A history
of the trial and sentence.

Crime Avenged. Sequel to Snenee 8 Doom. The pun-
ishment of the murdere

eM find of America. Heroines! in the Red Romance
of Crime

Lives of the’ Poisoners. The Most Fascinating Book of

A Continuation of

the Yea:

Mabille Unmasked; or, The Wickedest Place in the
orld

Crimes of the Cranks. Men and Women Who Have
Made Insanity an Excuse for Murder.

Suicide’s Cranks: or, The Curiosities of Self-Murder.
Showing the origin of. suicide.

Coney Island Frolics. How New York's Gay Girls
and Jolly Boys Enjoy Themselves by the Sea.

SPORTING BOOKS.

The American Athlete. A Treatise on the Principles
and Rules of Training.

Champions of the American Prize Ring. Complete
History and Portraits of all the American eavy

Weights
Life of John bie Heenan, with all his battles.
Tug Wilson, champion pugilist of England. :
Ed. Hanlan, America’s Champion Oarsman.
Betting Man’s Guide: or, How to Invest in Auction and
Mutual Pools and Combinations.
Any of the above superbly illustrated books mailed
to any address on receipt of 25 cents. Address RicHarRD

500 francs with the same imperturba- |

ear Pos this issue '

| either in En

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

TO . ADVERTISERS.

_ SPORTING.

aa ADVERTISING: RATES. ;
Adv verteelibeie Ses ME Or et ene epee “eS per line.
Copy for advertisements must be in ty Tuesday
noon in order.to insure insertion in following issue.
The PoLicE GAZETTE has 16 pages, of 4 columns, meas-
uring 14% inches each, and 2% inches wide.

ALL Geemeee. rengerg Sn EIGHT WoRDs AVERAGE

No Discounts Allowed rs Large Advertisements or
Time Contracts.

No Extra Charge for Cuts or Display.
During the continnance of an 5 -omcsmoegata the
paper: is sem regularly to all advertisers.
h should accompany all orders for transient bus-
ineos in order to secure prompt attention.

THE ANNUAL HOLIDAY EDITION

OF THE

POLICE GAZETTE

vile be the regular issue No. 534, published December,

* eveeiiiti columns close Tuesday, November
29, 1887, at 2 P.M. Noadvance in rates, $1 per line.
An issue of not less than 250,000 may be confidently
relied upon, making the cost 2-50f a cent per line per
thousan bee ne for mode: most effective and consequent-
ly the cheapest ad ing ar genemtnag wk in ‘he world.

Don’t fait to be represented a aon that that aeccasion. Ad-
dress allordersto K. FOx
5 PS York City.

_ arate

PROPRIETARY ARTICLES.

dom from taste and n, Free.
action (it our days an cures in
three of four aaye and always

ess ti any 0
prepar reparation) hon ong Tarrant’ .
the most desirable
Soe ever suaatttereared.
( ones nt —. po os

pried the focd ae Of label label Awe
a signature of

-¥., upon. i eRe
rie 00. Sold by all druggists.

| STERLING'S

Royal REMEDY

A positive cure for

YPHILIS |:

hiliti
; Rheumatinn aodet se be
flitic manifestati ~—

Send for Treatise,.

TRADEM ARK - pony ag to any address

disease, testimonials, etc. Every letter conflaentic®
Address THE JOHN STERLING ROYAL REMEDY CO.,
Lock Box 47, Kansas City, Mo

able, and sold geo

r in a it

has given a
Alcott & Lisk,

Hudson. N. Yu

Sold by Druggistse

BROU’S INJECTION.

Hygienic, infallible and Preservative.

Cures promptly, without additional en hong
oc 3 or chron = discharges: of the U

‘successor to Brou Pharmacien, I Paris. 80 Sold by
areqaiae throughout the United States.

SPORTING MENS: |

ANIMALS are eapecial oe

= various kinds. URIS
ill be found to be the best poli Gaete used.

One po og omg oe will convince ant most petal ers

For sale gzists everywher fu

does not ke ep PHENOL SODIQUE, Mion’ t Bsa f wr

oa es, ‘send direct t ‘ ANCE

OS. & WHITE, Proprietors, Callowhill and Marshall
BROS. Philadelphia, enclosing ‘the price, 50 cts. per bottle.

K idney and all Urinary Troubles quickly
and safely cured by Docuta Sandalwood, in seven
days: avoid imitations; buy Docuta, it is genuine. Full
directions. Price, $1.50; half boxes, 75c. All druggists.
M®? ental and Physical Prostration. Complete cure
by using the Nervous Debility Pills; $1 L per ae, 6

for = E. MED. Lyst.. 24 Tremont Row: Boston

AMUSEMENTS

r Study of Mankind is Man.

Just , vablahed. (pocket oct on),
ish, Spanish or German, a series of lec-
tures eddveaeed to Youth, Manhood and Old Age, as
delivered at the sy useum, or to those unable to attend
sent free, by mail, to address on receipt of 25 cents
in postage stamps. ad ress Secretary New York Mu-
seum of Anatomy, 708 Broadway, New York.

The Know Tt Tilyeet.

ey missions and wee stopped by using our Merv ous
Deve Pills: or box; 6for $5, \post paid
ED. lao 18 Tremont vik ston, Mass.

TREW ARDS.

We ve $1000.00 Reward for a cough or throat
trouble (last stages of disease excepted), which can
not be relieved by a ha use of TR x. Stone’s
Bronchial Wafers. Sam mpl ie free.- Add

STONE MEDI INE CoO.. Guinev. In.

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.

Ba and Guitar.
8S. 8. Stewart’s ‘“Jour-
nal,” the only paper of

the kind in the world.
Do not buy a banjo or pay for lessons until you read
Be Oe Sree Neen Pearce st., Philadelphi
‘ART, No ur pe
Ilustratel’4 Price List sent tree. slo sia

NUMISMATIC.

Crontederate money (itis),
envelope for porticulars

Self-addressed stamped
TEXDE, Box 537, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.
66 Swe. Money” (bills and scrip) for collectors, $5

_ and > poem one le age and
list, $1. Co. Drawer Ke “Albany, N } wy’ 2

wives AND LIQUORS.

‘Wines qua Liquors of all kinds made at triflin
cost; book Bartepder’s Guides, new co %
tion, new drinks, oe ‘and $1. Box6s, Jersey City, N

THE GREAT

INTERNATIONAL PRIZE FIGHT

BETWEEN

JAKE KILRAIN & JEM SMITH

The Police: Gazette Diamond Belt, and
the Champlonship of the World,

Is made at last, and will be fought on Jan. 3, 1888,
within one hundred miles of Madrid, Spain. There is.
no come that the interest in this will surpass that
taken in the Heenan-Sayers fight in 1860. .

Arrangements have been made_with correspundents
in London to send S poe Cable Reports of everything
tranepittng e+: the fight that will be of interest to
the public, and will published and illustrated
weekly in the POLICE GazETTE.

RICHARD K. FOX,

P. O. Box 40. Franklin Square, New York.

gor ery HARRY eee ey is giving pri-
xing na at his Acade
Union SQuaRE, Bet. 17th and Tsth Sts., N. W.

AGENTS WANTED.
A MONTH active person to sen ont

goods. Nocapital required. Salary paid
ee we Expenses in advance. Full

e mean what we say.
tandard Silver Ware Co., Boston, Mass.

AGENT WANTED (Sample FREE)

foe Dz: «rena beautiful Elec-
x lipannee, Belts,
ee No = i. quick ee ore erie
Dr. Scot
ses paid. V: nf nares rti
WOR tlars abel P. O. VICKERY, Auuste, faine.

tory, Given. satisfaction
Diroror f mena specialty. Moderate charges
J honorab) A

spar ree ba

FOR —— eek and ex-

and
e treatment. ddress or call on N. E.

edical Institute, 24 Tremont Row, Boston, Mass.

to $8 a day. Samples worth $1.50. FR
$52: Lines Fees tuner the horses fect. s 3

rite BREw-
HOLDER Co., Holly, Mich.

ounterfeit Money, not any. rample for in-
C spection 10c. Address’ Loc ” Lock box ge Kutland, Vt.

CARDS.

OM LLAR. The Porice GazEtTrE will be reg-

oh lags mailed to any address in the United States

— on receipt of One Dollar. Good, live agents

ted in every town and village to canvass for sub-

bi na where the paper is not now hes omg sold. Send
stam addressed envelope for samples, terms, etc.,
Ricwarp K. Fox, Franklin §8q., New York.

Detsy; y; debility,

ponemnetien, Thousands of. gg

ervous Debility Pills, $1 —*
’ f. Mxp. Inet, 4 Tremont Bo ; wy, Boston,

53 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 50c. 2 for 80c.
20 Photos free with above.
NoyYELTy Co., Box 12h, Oswego, N. Y.
12 Milus-

Gieme NTS, YOU_CAN GET THEM.
Logg Hidden Fiene Scenes, Wc. (silver or 1-cent
J.J. UNswortH, Lewiston, Maine.

ee eo

PERSONAL.

MARRIED? ;

If you are not,
hod eet join
ae memnbe

Cireal as free. We MUTUAL. EN-
Box 846, ‘Naigneapolis,

f E. FRANK STUART. former ¢ Taramie City, will
communicate at once with Dole. of the same
pace, he will hear of something to Rac mutual advan-

| AREYOU wl

adics ‘and Gents destring 90 gryrespondents for”
or matrimony, sen — Ta) Fig
Social World box 5269, Boston, for 3 moa, subscription.

LOVERS Warm ann ©

TOILET ARTICLES.

FACIAL BLEMISHES.

the Largest Establishrient in the World for
their Treatment. Facial De’

and Scalp, Superflaous Hair,

Mol

Red

Pitting, etc.,

10c, for book « as

st SA yo P art ry Oatbeng,

Appliances, springs, =

Youn keys VIGOR res
mous Nervous. Debility Pi Bille: @

ing the fa-

. E. MED. INsTITUTE, 2% w, Boston,

mont ass.

RUBBER GOODS.

ARTICLES DE CAOUTCHOUC.
. or @’habit pour les dames. Prix, 50 cents;
3, oes -allumettes pour les messieurs. Prix, 25 cents;
cents
Protecteurs d’habit, et 3 Porte-allumettes, $1.
IMPORTING CoMPANY, Lock Box 104, Oswego, N. Y.

rfme Gem Proteetor, Pat. Jan. 4,
ments prosecuted. Sample, 25c.
wanted. J. A. MACKENZIE,

87. Infringe-
Cir. for stp. Agts.
x 345, Jersey City, N. J.

adies’ *“‘Peerless’’ Pat. R. B. Shields, 50c. gach: 3

for $1. Caton MED. Co., Box 5257, Boston, Mass

DRY GOODS.

mportant to Ladies. By
I Fidress. we will send our itm “catalogue
of French styles of underwear,

free.
RWEIS Bros., 6th Ave and Sist 8t., New York.

HOUSEHOLD ARTICLES.

EPPS’S_

GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.

COCOA

THE _ NATIONAL - POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK.

eee te

PUBLICATIONS.

EXHAUSTED VITALITY.

A GREAT MEDICAL WORK eae YOUNG

AND MIDDLE-AGED

KNOW THYSELF.

Mitirnyutd the PEARODY MEDICAL
No. 4 Bulfinch. 1 at. Boston

Mass. . PARKER, M. D-, Consult:
ing Cnysiel sian. More than one million copies sold.
It treats u ervous and Physical Debility, Prema-

ture Decline, rs of Youth, Exhausted I Vitality
Lost Manhood. boon aired Vigor and impurities of iy;
Blood, and the untold miseries consequent: thereon.
Contains 300 pages. substantial embo binding, full
gilt. Warranted the best popular medical ¢reatine
published in the Enzlish language. Price only $1 by
mail. postpaid, and concealed in a plain wrapper.
Tilustrative samy“e free if you send now. Address as
above. _ Mention this paper.

ADVENTUR

Of an Arkansaw Doctor. A boo 106 iS 10 Tilue-
trations. Choice reading; by mi L oe sealed, 50 cents:

3 Books, all different, $1. Parties ordering 3 books wili
have other sam len o @ similar nature sent for their
inspection. JONES, Box 302, Jersey City, N. J.

MAIL OR EXPRESS.

Book—Cousins—IIlustrated, and 311 pease: price, $1.50.
Also, Tra: Playing - Cards, $1.50 per pack I
guarantee the above, and will send as samples the Book
and Cards for $2. W. Scott, 89 Nassau St., Now York.

66 FRENCH FUN.” “A musical bed,” “At

French watering place,”
him,

yt “Which was the madman.” ‘Had no fun
Urged to try a again,” ‘How they did | it, » “Where tho
Bom! ae = BD ay called it of alt ed? et of six rare
ctures, colore nN samples o t- mot spare:
playing cards, set of im ported pictures. I OP will a alt
the abové to you for $1; 3 sets of all the above,
LIBERTY SUPPLY AGENT, 89 Nassau st, New York.

A + ee PROTECTOR,

Price Tf
ria Bon of otligr goods. we caled $8 per. dosen, with

89 Nassau Strest New York.

POLICE: ‘GAZETTE .

INTERNATIONAL EXTRA.

Newsdealers will | plese send their
orders to thelr. wholesale News Com-
pany at once.

cine tinea,

Portraits of Jake Longs Jem Smith and their back-
oli

- and stakeholder,
e and Battles 6! nd Bens pelt.

Als6
history: -of how the challengéwaa thade. ees

not being able to it <
acne Rich ve conte aaa

0 Neon rx City.

Night Scen 99 Sid FF
8 : Ene s pia ean cg
“ie scot poet, Galpin, Garetieae
“She Got There,’ Weddin Sehe Store Than
He Could Stand.” “N. hy
Place,” me ne “Working Up. Oe oe Ps _—

Parx NoveLty © Co., Box 1,191, Philadelp!

“a N A. LOOKING GLASS oT
Mailed secure. Price

we ts oN Saintes, a6 a ; Our set of 20
aisi se “ harm
hotewie a mn Lod 1.000" times, eS Lovers { Com
ination Package, cous funny things
All off the above goods complete ‘for a $1 bill,
THE IMPORTING Company. Lock Box 104, Oswego, N.Y.

Olection of pi f rose. =
Conia ned asec rs Keely refer
Cos . ry “
Under oad ight os Wheat ,Romm

i ee. Re oe to,do Pos 99 re ‘Che, dint

x 565, Jersey Ci _

66 aching Actresses on Spree 99

“inne he o Night Ricce,” 29 aban (For ve,”

L tt 99 i odel Lov
nine others mow - Fitrt,” ow to Kiss,” and

A. MacKEnzrx, P. O. Box 345, Jerrey City, N, J.

INHER
HOW SHE FELT '8 HER FIRST CORSET

thing out. Com h 56 6 D cents. eeeee as 25 cents.” :

W. ALDERSON, Bate Montana.

Unlouate 4-SPAGE CATALOGUE FREE

URIOUS' +BOX 2633. NEWYORK*

OLIVAR HORNET, Af pages
B 12 -futt- page alue'setiogs. oon: — —! Pp 50c.

Stamps taken. . Box 55, Jersey City. N. J. :

ight emissions, waste in Trmanent
N cured. Use Nervo Devine ity Pill
for $5. N. E. Med. Inst. 24 Tremont “Fills, Piper t box,

COURTSHIP an RELA!
LOVE Treatise. Richly fasta Ont ae :
? a §@ Catalogue free. Lock Box 568,

6 essie’s Dream,” “Naup Clara.” “Lo
a arm 8 ° ghty ‘Love In
“Fairly Caught,” with 08 mai
ams MACKENZIE, Box 345, , Daot Gite NS ¥

K = IN THE DOOR and 104
KEY-HOLE other Popular RONGE for

66) fand’ I's Confession, ” te
Msiscaotsean acPhealatane Reg

‘Qomething New. (2) Favorite Cowbo
S music, 0c. Supply Agent, Lock Box 6 Grecley Gah

ATRIMONIAL PAPER. Illustrated. Sent 3 h
Mw on trial for 10c. HELPING Hann, Chicago, IIL

A book -
perems Ft bere cya with colored views, 50c.; Our not a 9
pho

MISCELLANEOUS.

a ees ee

WATCH CHARMS
. With, Powerful. Microscopic Glasses, in
dzone IVORY CASES, with ring
r attaching to watch chain. Magnifies
1,000 tim times, so that photographic pictures
r than the head of a pin are per-
fectly di Tietinet. Different designs. Sample

Transparent Playing Cards, $1 pack,
“the a
age re on fa a at Maley e-! ec.

sais coe oe Colored, soe
Lola Montez" Toilet et tionsinne. 820.
6 Beautifully Illustrated $
All of the above goods co mplets ran
PURCHASING AGENCY, 178, Ph Twtelphia, Pa.

THE “POLICE GAZETTE”
STANDARD BOOK OF RULES

Containing rules on Archery, Bagatelle, Bicycle, Bil-
liards, Racin: ne. Bo Bowling. all kinds of Boxing, Club
Swin ing. Oc Cock F ehti ing. Cricl Cricket, bg on Dog ht-
ing, Ball, Han Lacrosse, Polo, Pool, Quoit
Throwing, Rat Killing, ‘Skating. Skittle. S
Swimming, Sword Contests, Putting the Stone, Throw-
ing the ammer, Tossing the Cabe Walking, Run-
ning, Wheelba

Shooting,

rrow; and all kinds of Wrestling sent to
any address on receipt ‘ cents.

ICHARD K. Fox, Publisher.

RANSPARENT CARDS, Secreted Views, hold
Tio lignt, soct Photos (rousing ect of 12) Ber 2 Care

poy oye , 2oc.; set of 6 lored pictures,
All the above complete, $ ‘Ao 3 gato . _

e hovauet Co., % Church 8t., N. ¥.-

Card Photos, 14 he rey pl marri and its
£) reeults), 1a Secrets and 12 Love Letters: aitaitierene
for We. x “55, Jersey City, N. J.

esults of Erro: ak’ tnen of gear stored ‘by th reperes
re iy ie ervous
Debility Pen’ Addo Re N. EM NSTITUTE, Boston.

sparent Playing Cards $1. Photos, 20
tori Ie. wi with large catalogue of all on rare
B. THURBER & Co., Bayshore, N. Y.

Neore -Clara’s ip Bong, with LS 12c.; 40 Photos,
Female, 10c ver’s oF FP packace 10c, Hicenacunss
Charm, imported, wey Hanson Bros, Chicago.

Highly Colored Sc 8 pieces of P
12 The Lovers’ Combination Pack Me ‘and 20 cies
x 20 Ne Newark, N. J.

The Lovers’ Combination Packare bing 4 Aa
i. isa marvel of the aze. Box 345, Jersey City, N

10c. Address

; 82 Secrets, one to develop an any Dr part of the pods. for

ANDERSON, Chicago.

x 7, Caniden, N. J.

tat Al
S' ate Supply Agency Healers in Photos,
ie a iaeeueadsrcastammsassaces cs Seeeeae ae

‘PHOTOGRAPHS.

To Saloonkeepers and Sporting Men.

‘COLORED PHOTOGRAPHS,
IN FIGHTING ATJTTUDE. OF

JAKE KILRAIN,

**Police Gazette” Champion of America, and}

JEM SMITH,

Champion of eee.

Matched to t for $10,000, the “‘Potice Gazette” D:
mond Belt and the Championship of the world. Malti
to any address on neceips of 2 cents for the pair.

RICHARD K. Fox, Publisher.

an woe. ge Soe Beatrice | ag" Sport:

ing Ph otouraphe fu

ag from gee of ‘all the champions, includ enzo John
Sullivan, Jack De aula.

John T

Rich

gh rald, Ned

‘eemer, Jem- am h pi chan ‘of England),

DOA gt ee ng Fa A
e ve rting saloon.sho

ave the full set. Send poten Por ‘or cataloitic.

PH OTO Nature. sent seal

@c. TioGa NoveE.ty Co., Box 1251,

. Sample
Philadelphia, Pa.

Actresses in Costume, 2c. Set of 11

100 Prete’ French Girls,’ 25c.; 3 sets, ail different, .
InmPortine Co., Jersey City, N. J.

He Ene r reatored b
SE uepeTG Ble Biperton, Sor Be.

40 Photos—Sure to suit, we. Lover’s Packave. 10c.
NOVELTY Co., Latham, Ohio.

rt Studies. New and nice. 5x6, hizhly colored.
Set of 4 for 2c. Box 55, Jersey City, N. J.

Set, of Six Pretty Fireneh Girls, 15c.: 12, %c.
Catalogue 2c. Lock Box 345, Jersey City, N. J.

Photos,10 Beauties, 10c. Western Sup. Co.,£t. Louis, Mo.
100 Stage Beauties, 25c. Box 345, Jersey City.N.J.
Set of 2 funny cabinets, 2c. Box 345, Jersey City, N. J.
Sammie (sealed). 2c. Box 435, Foxborg, Mass.
20 photos (card) 10c. Box 55, Jersey City, N. J.

SPORTING GOODS.

Headquarters for Sporting Goods. Gambling
don’t pay unless you win. Our Standard Marked
Back Cards enable you to sit in any game and win
every time. Easy to learn; impossible to detect. *Price
by mail, with instructions. $1 per pack, 6 packs for ade.
Send id stamp » for new price list of all advantage
CaRD SUPPLY Co., Box 104, Usweno,

THE NEWEST And_ Best Advantages a)
Card Playing. O1
MARKED CARDS are the FiuvEsT EVER
ag ch nn ye will, in every actly act re=-
oods are xac a
mted. Yeen® for Cirenlars and Pri oTists "Sal
JaMEs W. Lewis, 107 4th Avenue, New ¥ York.

k Before You L 4 ,
Ls sults, 14 illus., 0c, Lock Box Ms, Jersey Citys N's:

A Silent Protector, Price 25c., 3 f
AA Bent Weil coated RR, Coc ee 8B Benicos has

r 00 0 funny for anything!
T and after ; marriage, ar : Oe. Hox sas paar, gs at

BO KS! : Photos! Ete. Sond, 2c. stamp for catalogue,
- Conroy, 10 Duane St., N. Y. Established 1853.

Yhe ¢ Genuine Book of Nat - i t
T Price, $1. Box 14, Bachmanvilie, Pa. —

"Phe “POLICE GAZE °? will be regniarly
mailed to ny ad arose in the United States 13 my = 4

on receipt of On Good. ee ents wanted in

every town an or rag yo ae

where the paper is not now w being 60 sold. ae stamped

addressed envelope for samples, terms, e to

Ricuagp K. Fox. Franklin iq. Wer York.

oxin

Borg Se

ing proba,

$3 r.- Correct Sporti
Rules to govern athlotica. "Be Lange catal c oo} antl

Athi

dog fighting, &c.. &c.. price, 26c
WH Ronuwrsom’ Broadway NewYork.”

‘compounded,

rnish :
Our set of three Cabinets, from |

oes famous known

font Begiod Beak sige, giving ful raya gs

MEDICAL.

MEDICAL.

ERRORS OF YOUTH.

Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Youthful Indiscre-
tions, Lost Manhood,

BE YOUR OWN PHYSICIAN !

any men, from the effects of youthful imprudence,
have brought about a state of weakness that has re-
duced the general system so much as to induce almost
every other disease, and the real cause of the trouble
scarcely ever being suspected, they are doctored for
everything but the right one. Notwithstanding the
many valuable remedies that medical science has pro-
duced for the relief of this class of patients, none of
the ordinary modes of treatment effect acure. During
our extensive college and hospital practice we have
poo ee ph | with and discovered new and concen-
es. The accompanying prescription is

Offered ds acertain and speedy cure, as hundreds
of cases in our practice have beet restored to perfect
health by its uge after all other remedies failed.
fore pure in
of this presac

Per-
ients must be used in the preparation

rythroxylon coca, ¥ drachm.
d jerubebin, Spent
pone Bef 46 drachm.

Helonias Dio
Gelsemin, 8 grain
Ext. ignatim amare (alcoholic), 2 grains.

aie I —— 2 scruples. Mi
yeqrin, a. x.
Make be ila. ake. Cane pill at hy p. m., and another on

going . In some cases it will be necessary for
1 ent ® tako two pills at bedtime, making the

number three a day. is rem is adapted to every
condition of 6 debility and weakness in‘ either
sex, won y in those cases resulting from im-

recuperative wers of this restora-
Bive are are traly nishing, and use continued for a
short time c

zes the | a inguid, de pai om ona nerveless
condition to one of renew or.

As we are constantly in receipt and hee rs of inquiry
relative to this remedy, we would say to those tgp
would prefer to obtain it from us, = we Fh
securely “9 a package containing 60 . ily
be sent by eo Taal from our
private laboratory, or we. hei furnish 6 packages,
which will cure fooet cases, for $5.

Address or ¢

NEW ENGLAND MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
24 Tremont Row, Boston, Mass.

EARLY DECAY. .

Yo INDISCRETION (self-abuse or excess) re--
sults in complaints such as Loss OF MEMORY, SPOTS
EFORE THE EYES, DEFECTIVE SMELL, HEARING AND
TASTE, NERVOUSNESR, WEAK BACK, ag aga
NIGHT masons los OF SEXUAL POWER, ETC
N, gtione. ead s pi. suffering ¢ from
ctions, a life o'
A LINGERING DEATH, the reward of their iz:
norance and vy, Egy many to co osten template and
even commit gen 4 numbers end thelr
days amidst the horrors ‘of IN SANE ASYLUMS.
FAILURE IN BUSINESS and the Ledges pl OF —T. are
frequently the results of Arnone o
YOU. BE ONE MORE * stumbered
= these thousands of one _Or will you

pee our own Aci ; PE cine plone ever di
and + feed wilt m phyate di a from nat |:
is. Perfection,

geases resul
ebuse. If you will havea Remeay ae
o F ote madres, 80 Bs le Bie! — jy. ands our. -|-
send you ‘0. . ve
mail i; ption of i an INSTE INSTRUMENT W AT

THE SANDER Sasa se Ay vonr

SEXUAL POWER

eatoots in 3 and Permanently Restored _ in
irae maine

pills or TRON, cot but Low E
reams ase

deliciows Mi bss

ELECTRIG BELT. ofthis EE,

WE AK Without Stomach Medicines,
Bolus, Sealed Treatise free on application.
lls are safe and always reliable. aah fai

Yo Germa it xe Will Siltaive ts
’ Besant
er a
dna »P.O. sony
Lost Vigor and Manhood Restored. Per-
fect restoration assured by the Marston
} CrneN MARSTON C8., 19 Park Piace, Kew York,
D% Taylor's English Female Regulatin
to ut rye or tansy and pone royal} 1 by
oe ad me. ‘A. Drers, Dru uffalo, aE

Ries immediate 3 to Me dare: ,

Magneto Electric Dis-
e Preventive.
Worn; next the "body" night and

No man can "afford to be with-
Y out it.

battery. A
covery. Price. postpaid,
Agents wanted.

Lao!

Knight’s (2£n ty oy Steel and
SEs Pills for irregu-
lar monthly periods,are safe,
Ss and the only gen-
uine. Sent ES on receipt of $1.04 by ALFRED
KNiGHt, Druggist, 3300 State Street, Chicago, Il.

suffering from the -
fects of — ere
tors, carly decay, lost

TO WEAK MEN:

pose oem ote. t will = a oe srenties mga
containing fu culars for home cure, free
charge: Address Prof... FOWLER. Moodus, Conn.

pind. youthful errors, weak back.

book Manly V free
HENS ONLY Dz. W. YOUNG, 200 Hudson § SON.

NND aaah oh it is a CERTAI
ouston peal, New York, and by druggists generally.

TABLETS ate peynonnesd

ysicians
Tevigorelinig we nerve
force and Bea ang gg at ste

" Yigor an and manhood. $1.00

Qtandard Kemedy to.! 71 fandoli's St., Chicago, li

“TTARMLESS, SURE AND D, QUICK.” ait
EXTRACT BOP AIBA, CUBEBS
AIN AND SPEEDY cure. Price

have retailed at our store
’S COMPOUND

onell, arceatat

peeenete Safety Guar-

Send stamp for circu-
rs. This cutis % size of the
wonderful oo

A e Paris Electro Medical Co.,
aD Gi Agency, 157 B’ way, ae ee

MY ELECTRIC BELTS and SUSPEN -
SORY cure nervous debility, loss
) of manhood, weakness of body and

lst Ave., corner

‘Goff’s Giant Globules’

Restore lost vigor. Change in 5 Gaye, cure i in 30

ILcox SPECIFIC Co., Philadel phia, om

CONSUMPTIO

d. A late disco
containing directions for home treatment. Give ree
office. Dr. Wm

Sample bottles free with t

.¥. G. Noetling & Co., E; Hampton, C

throat and bron-
chial troubles cur-
treatise:

SEXUAL POWER En

l errors, &
Bago cure.’ ‘end f for

, youthfu
and armteheh Fee H.: LowE, -Winated, Conn.

ore
REK. Die D

pares.
can be

page

wel sealed; all confidential

LAE the’ bests Mrs. Allan’s ges: pa een:

ators never fais fe and superior ‘to al
ed by thousands of ladies tg-day; $2 per box; ball

UL KING, Box 2127, Boston, Mass.

ailéd,’

Buea

D=AEKSILE® SOKE URE

y < shetamne @.H.

SH ILD TRIE
Et Box. Gh Meephion

CATARRH Sei: .

Enjarzoe weak and usideveloped pa Fe Ngeetaet oct sexu a
Bree ane ee RF. Caton. gee ¢ Sst Heston Maas.”

ey returucd

MAGHETINE increases ‘sexudt pow rand

curesimpotence by external use or m

Sample, 10c,
y mall la salle’ St., Chicago, U1.

Price $1, postpaid. G. YaTEs. Box 252, Jersey City, N, J.

YT ith Indi tiow or

SNE pont mediate relief by Cla note yspep-
re. cure, b

Habit Cured tm
toad days. Be Oeil Caron.
Leen od, Lebanor, Ohia

rfezione stron ete et eo enlar
an on_o
Man. ner 26 ‘Tremont Row. —_ A

Fe Mal fis

SEDs ta leanaarens Sebel

sent (sealed) free. ERIE MED

here 00. Pal yaatase

im: otence 5 ee nervous ee
Dr. F

Ra ee confidential.

Dis Yraaphoods im, Youthfal Vicor Pilix. For. ea

| Yous MAN, it will cure it. Price $2. Communi- :

SANTALUMA Co., 278 Michigan Ave., Detroit, Mich,

PRI ‘abuse or excess. ars or female.
Address Dk. Warp & Co.,

VATE, Troubles and . Weakness from

Treatise free.

ents to marriage removed by’ using, our
ous De Js. iost paid °

| TREE Be ein bee

diseases. $1. Al

\r. Fuller's Pocket Injection with 8 .

combined. abe stinging irritation and al

Druyzgists. Depot 429 Canal Bt.,

ty te Power.
NW size.

How fto get it.
, 10c. OxrE NERVE Foop Co., Augusta, Me.

ripety

$1.00 a box, or trial

‘LAWYERS

i rece Law of Illinois. 1 advice free. Send
Lvore Cornell «& Speneer, EN St., Chicago.

$200. 00 IN GOLD GIVEN AWAY!

ei er ae eer ct

Aa mgt ry bay ators expected

gaye THIS OFFER:

rts re 4 Rang vue beraochencie 2 mete OO TN Sine s$1°00

h yout anewer eend 15 two-cent
‘en elegant P
Corde, ee also Agent’s Sample
votations for ry a
age would ¢ fad at retafl more

ee. -), for aout postage, packing, &
arge dsome
Scoatatete tating ihe meweet — in Visiting Cards, gin sount Autograph Album with a
eet of Imported Scrap Pictures, and other useful and ornamental articles. This
We guarantee satisfaction or cheerfully refand the money. Our

di before Jan.
femrenzes in the longest verse in the Bible, the first will
IN GOL

New Year, Sunday School and Rewar
Stet meet ‘who take advantage of this offer will mt need
1, the correct number of

00 IN GOLD,
OLD PLECE, This offer
for which we will send
ported Christmas, New Year, Sunday School and

ett the gods ins ourbandgend American Importing Co., West Haven, Conn.

FURNISHING C GOODS.

BOTH. “HUSBANDS

catalogue was freq)

Will do well to write for our illustrate

AM Hosiery, Gloves, Jewelry, M

ABLER BHOs., 56 & W7 Sixth Avenue, New York.

For Scarce Books address Box ia, Bachmaaville, Pa.

Songs, 104 Daisies, 10¢. Western Sup. Co., St. Louis, Mo.

SPECIA! y + «iCEs,

meons 4 »
M pe “nis uacharzes, eruptions of all_kinds ey eedily

. Medical Institute’s N
Debdility Pills, $1 per box, 6 for $5, Sent postpaid.

MARKED BACK PLAYING CARDS. Owner
reads easily by the backs (new quick process and
very simple) with full directions, $1.00 per pack. Ad-
dress J. PATRICK, Boston, Mass.

Geraal Power ior permanently; use our

Dervous Debility Pills ; A pe r box, 6 for $5, post-
paid N. E. M remont Row. Heaton.

. MED. Inst. 3
MARKED CARDS, tree retry 2 eee:

Neckwear and Fancy Novelties. Add an

TOILET ARTICI ES.

will reduce dey £s AN =m
lds. per month without in any way
affecting the general health. cm

stamps for circulars covering teats
poate = Ohh Addreas Conrus Lean Co.,
2315 Madison Sq., iphia, Pa.

MADE

ABSOLUTELY HARMLESS,
simply stopping the FAT-producing
qualities of food. The supply being

stopped the natural working of the
aystem draws on the fai inthe system
and at once reduces weight,

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. voy. a

NURUTTTU DUDE TOTE NU) COPYE'UWNURNENNN

ili

THEY THOUGHT HER AN ANGEL.

MADAME CARLOTTA, A LADY AERONAUT, DESCENDS UNEXPECTEDLY IN THE MIDST OF A LOT OF NEGROES IN A COTTON
FIELD IN DEKALB COUNTY, GEORGIA,


=== sim_national-police-gazette_1886-04-03_48_446 ===

Copyrighted for 1886, by RICHARD K. FOX, PROPRIETOR POLICE GAZETTE PUBLISHING Houser, Franklin Square, New York.

RICHARD K. FOX, }
Editor ahd Proprietor.

"NEW YORK, SATURDAY,

APR IL 3 1886. {VOLUME XLVIII—No, 446

Price Ten Cents.

ee ne re nee

SHE WAS HER FATHER'S DEPUTY.

HATTIE McKAY, THE SEVENTEEN YEAR OLD DAUGHTER OF A MICHIGAN SHERIFF, TAKES A BIG PRISONER TO THE
' PENITENTIAR®:

etialiaase it

je ae eae

eee Lis

—— ee eee

ete eee rh

Jj Aww

2 THE

NATIONAL POLICE:

ESTABLISHED 1846,
RICHARD K. FOX, - -

Editor and Proprietor.

POLICE GAZETTE PUBLISHING HOUSE,
Franklin Square, N. UY.

‘FOR THE WEEK ENDING

TO NEWS AGENTS, POSTMASTERS, ETC.

Iwill give a liberal discount and furnish sample
copies and advertising matter free to all news
agents, postmasters and others who will make a
personal canvass of their districts for the POLICE
GAZETTE, the greatest: sporting and sensational
illustrated newspaper in the world, Send for full
particulars to RICHARD Kh. FOX,
adharapenei Franklin Sica New York.

ATTENTION ! }_EYES FRONT!

Now that the spring « season of sport is fairly
openingand that fresh opportunities to keep
up the extraordinary and world-wide reputa-
tion of this paper are hourly turning up, it will
not be out of place to announce to our thousands
upon thousands of readers that we are still
wide awake and abreast of the times.

For example, in our next week’s issue, we
shall commence, with other novelties, the pub-
lication ofa strictly authentic and reliabie lite
of Jack Dempsey, in which the entire record of
that wonderful boxer will be set forth in full.
It will be one of the most interesting contribu-
tions ever made to fistic history.

In the same number, Mr. Rankin, the well-
“known writer on baseball, will resume his gos-
sippy articles on that popular subject. Any-
body who knows anything at all about the
national game knows that nobody in the world
can treat the subject more vividly or readably.

In other departments, notably those of racing
and rowing, we shall show the same progress
and the same Zealous desire to give our readers
the best they can get any where for their money.

In this country there are any number of per-
sons in the publishing business who envy our
enterprise and liberality. They endeavor to
decry our efforts to promote athletic sport in
all {ts branches, and yet they never spend one
dollar to assist or promote pugilism, running,
walking, rowing, wrestling, etc. It is startling,
but, nevertheless, true, that since May, 1880,
Richard K. Fox has expended over $50,000 in
gold medals for rowing, running, wrestling,
bicycling, pigeon shooting, baseball, skating,
lacrosse, fifteen-ball pool, boxing, snowshoe
racing, etc.

In every part of the United States and Canada
contests have taken place for gold medals and
other valuable trophies which cost a fortune,
and there is no other propriet>r of any sport-
ing paper in this country who has ever done
the like. The late Frank Queen offered a cheap

baseball and a few prizes for billiard. players
" gome years ago, but their value was’small com-
pared with those annually given bined by
Richard K. Fox.

Besides the innumerable trophies that. have
already been offered and won by the successful
athletes there are now to be seen at this office
the following valuable trophies :

The “Police Gazette’? diamond champion belt
of the world, value $2,500.

The “Police Gazette ” six-day go-as-you-please
diamond champion belt, value $1,000.

The League ‘base ball championship trophy,

The “ Police Gazette ’’ 24-hour neel-and-toe
walking championsip belt, value $500.

The single scull ainateur championship row-
ing trophy, value $500.

The amateur championship base ball trophy,

The Canadian baseball championship trophy,

The “ Police Gazette ’’ professional champion
20 mile bicycle medal, value $500.

The single scull champion medal, represent-
ing the championship of the Police Department
of New York, value $2.

Independent of these and other medals and

trophies, Richard K. Fox is now having a dia-
" mond belt made at a cost of $2,000 which is to
represent the middle weight pugilistic cham-
pionship of the world, and it is contemplated to
offer a Champion’s Trophy for rowing, to repre-
sent the single scull championship of the world.

No sporting paperin this country can keep
pace with us. Thecirculation of this journal is
nearly as large as that of all the other papers
combined, and the chief reason is that we do
all we can to promote and elevate sport, and
lend a willing hand tc
many car testify to.
as usua!, we intenitokeep up with the times
and do all in cur power to arrange and promote
every kind of sportand athletic exercise.

Now the season is opening,

IT is when the working classes have 10 money

to spend that wé have a business depression.

STRIKERS are not sluggers, but Hoxie’s inso-
lence is enough to mnake any peaceable man a
hard-hitter.

see

A WASHINGTON society lady brings her opera-
glasses to church. There don’t any spring bon-
nets get away from her.

oes

HowWELLs, the novelist, says tuts work never |

tires him. Howells, the novelist, is different in

that respect to many of his readers.

oes
ELLEN TERRY gets a salary of $20,000 per

annum, and only acts when she chooses. We

know of several*actors in America that get |

twice as much and néver.act at all.

TALK about “stealing the coppers oft a dead
nigger’s eyes!’ A Cieveland (O.) undertaker
has been convicted of stealing one of the eyes
ota corpse. An Ohio man would steal an open
grave,

—P esp

LOUISE MICHEL announces that she will
make a lecture tour in America. Come on,
Lou, here 1s the place where you can do the
least harm, and France will probably interpose
no objections,

Se ee
GEN. SHERIDAN is prouder of his four little
daughters than he is of his record. Romping
with the little ones keeps him young and sensi-
ble. Gen. Sherman is not so fond of children.
He likes them older.
oes

THE Rev. Sam Jones tells Chicago that what
she needs is old-fashioned honesty. If the Rev.
Sam Jones had been an ordinary chestnuiter
he would have fixed Chicago's want at
women with smaller feet.

Str. Louis people evidently bathe on occa-
sions. The Atlanta Constitution reports that
whenever graiid opera is presented atthe Mis-
souri metropolis the scent of toilet soap is dis-
= all over the theatre.

\ oes
oes

THERE is something strongly suggestive
about the word “boycott,” but the article itself
is ten times more formidable. This is a fact
worth remembering in view of the eftorts being
made to “down” the strikers.

coe

ONE of the wives of King Thebaw was pre-
sented by some British.officers with a bottle of
gin, which she used to pertume her clothing.
There are several men in this locality that
would bring a high price in Burmah.

chiet

THE citizens of East St. heats are waging a
bitier war on tramps, and vagrants coming
across the bridge are treated with secant favor.
This makes it a little rough on the good people
of St. Louis who wander over there for work.

THE oldest tree in the world is said to be a
chestnut at the foot of Mount Etna: Now we
know where all the gray-headed jokes come
from. Those told hereabouts could certainly
come from no other chestnut tree than the very

oldest.

A CINCINNATI policeman has been discharged
for going to sleep on the train when ne was
bringing a prisoner into the city and allowing
him to escape. That is proper. The sooner
policemen learn that they must not slcep any-
where but on their beats the better.

ooo

AN effort is being made to secure a pardon
for Phipps, the man who Stole the roof off the
Philadelphia almshouse. ‘I'o reassure that por-
tion of the public, which objects to tying its
roofs down, it is given out that Phipps isin such
poor health that he will not live long.

pwun
eee

JUDGE W. K. MAKEMSOoN, ot Texas, who de-
fended Holland in the recent murder trial, says
the paradise of hard drinkers is the town of
Laredo, on the boundary line between Mexico
and the Lone Star State. He says: “Take an
American dollar and'start in and take a drink
on the Texas side of the line and you'll receive
as change a Mexican dollar. Cross the boun-
dary into what is knewn as Nuevo Laredo, take
a drink, tender the Mexican coin and get a
United States standard doilar in change, You
can Keep this up all day and you'll feel like the
cowboy pianist when you get through.

THE daring express robbery on the Rock
istand road recalls some of the exploits of the
James brothers and their gang. The express
messenger in this case proved to be a brave

man, and had he been able to reach a weapon |
than one of |

would, no doubt, have put more
the criminals beyond the reach of punishment.

As it was, surprised and evidently overpowered |

by numbers, he made a gallant fight, and lost

| his life in the effort to preserve the property in

assist al! professionals, as |

his charge. If he left any family the express
company should see to it that his widow and
children are amply provided tor, and some

| commodore of the New Rochelle,

| pany has disbuuged in Atlanta, Ga.
' burst.

| world, and was all cash at that.
| suitable memorial should be placed Over his |

| grave.

GAZ \Z “LTTE:

NE Ww YorK.

STAGE WHISPERS.

Mr. Charles R. Thorne, the ‘veteran actor,
isin NewYork once more.

Miss Mary Anderson will sail for Europe |

outie Aller, of the Bremen line, on June 5.

Mr. Fred Vokes is reporte& seriously ill
In London. But then Fred Vokes 1s‘always ill.

The ‘‘World” company will hereafter be |

under the Inanagement of Mr. Samuel Colville.

Mr. Charies L. Bradshaw will leave
Lotta’s company at the end of the current season.

Mr. J. H. Ryley has been elected vice-
N. Y., Yacht Club.

Mme. Selina Dolarois lying seriously ill
of hemorrbage of the lungs at her residence in New
York.

Miss Flora Moore’s ‘‘Toy Pistol” com-

The “Toy Pistol”

Miss Maud, the daughter of Gen. Banks,
willbea member of Mr. Fred Ward’s company next
season. ot

A company of deaf and dumb amateurs
are to play ‘*‘Hamilev’ in London. What a treat it
must be!

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Knight will pass
the summer in Europe. Manager Frank W. Paul will
accompany them.

Lawrence Barrett will spend the summer
at Cohasset, and Edwin Booth will be his guest: for a
number of weeks.

Mr. Boucicault’s new comedy, ‘‘The Jilt,”
has made a hit atthe New York Star, where it will
be played a fortnight longer,

Mr. George F. Rowe’s Japanese play,
“The Lily of Yeddo,” is to be produced at the Criterion
theatre, Brooklyn, on April 5.

Mr. William Davidge, Sr., will, on the
20th of next June, celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of
his first appearance on the stage. '

Mrs. Langtry is to aprear in London in
May astne beautiful Helen of Troy in Mr, Godwin’s
Greek play modeled on ‘‘Sophocles.”

The widow of the late Harry Beckett is
again living tn New York, and ber daughter is en-
gaged to play in Mr. Augustin Daly’s company.

Violet Cameron’s American tour will be
under the direction of Mr. H. J. Hitchings, and not
Mr. Frank W. Sanger, as has been reported.

Mr. George Monroe, of the Knights’
“Over the Garden Wall’ company, has been seriously
ill of pneumonia, but is on the road to recovery.

Mr. Oscanyan has completed a new socie-
ty drama for Fanny Davenport. It is very much on
the “Fedora” order, with the'scene laid in Paris.

Mr. and Mrs. Nat Goodwin will sail for
Evrope on May 26. Their house at Ocean Spray has
been leased for the summer to Commodore Perkins.

It is rumored that Mr. John A. Mackay
contemplates starring as Conn,in “Tbe Sbaughraun,”
a part he played witb great success a number of years
ago.

Mr. Harry G. Lambkin, well known as a
circus performer, died in South America from yellow
fever, Feb. 25. Tbisis not Harry Lambkin, the crick-
eter.

Mr. Frank Torrence is now in advance of
the Redmund-Barry company, which is playing on
the New England circuit after a successful tour in the
West.

‘Lydia Thompson and her ‘‘Oxygen”

company played a very successful engagement in
Brooklyn last week, and will appear tbis week in Bal-
timore.

Mr. George C. Boniface, Jr., who left the
McCaull * Black Hussar” company previous to its
arrival in Boston, will join Mr. Hoyt’s “ Tin Soldier”
company.

The Cragg family of acrobats and gym-
nasts are about to return to London, and their appear-
ance at the Globe this week is tbe last they will make
in this city.

Manager Schoeffel has booked a very
strong list of attractions at the Park theatre for next
season, and the dates there are practically filled up to

Power’s “Ivy Leaf’? company, which has
been playing to large audiences in the Park theatre,
will appear on the New England circuit this week,
beginning at Worcester.

Nat Goodwin will probably open his sea-
son at the New York Bijou with a new version of
**Bottom’s Dream.” Let’s hope the bottom won’t soon
fall out of Nat’s own dream.

San Francisco managers state that farce-
comedy is a failure on the Pacific coast just now. Man-
ager Hayman bas instructed his representative not to
book any more tor this season.

When Miss Adelaide Neilson was in St.

| Louis in 1880, she stood in front of the bronze statue of
| Shakespare, and said: “Old fellow, you bave done a

great deal tor me, a great deal.”

W. J- Ferguson and Miss Ada Dwyer’

have taken the places of Mr. Herbert Archer and
Miss Belle Archer in the *‘Alone in London” com-
pany, since it last appeared here.

Mr. George F. Learock and Miss Ella
Wren have left Mile. Rhea’s company. Mr. Boyd
Putnam succeeds the former as leading man of that
constantly changing organization.

Everything is--again on a harmonious
footing’at the Comedie Francaise. The little unpleas-
antness growing out of the re-engagement of Mlle.
Dudlay as societaire bas been arranged.

Miss Mae F. Mace, a member of the Staf- |

ford-Foster company, died at the residence of her
parents 1p Brooklyn; of consumption, on March 8.
Her remains were cremated last Monday.

Mr. Edward Kendall was returning from
Europe on the Oregon when she sunk last Sunday.
He estimates his Joss at $4,500, says it was his all in the
Ha! ha! ha!

Adelaide Moore’s intelligent acting has
made a deep impression in Brooklyn. During the

‘at 12:45, and everything was tben all right.

light sandy color.

past week. while she was playing at the Criterion, it
transpired that she is the wite of a wealiby and higi:-
ly respeciei1 Brooklynite.

Lilian Olcott, who is at present starring
in the West with considerable success, will make her
debut in the Metropolis before the close of the season
Her repertoire includes Galatea, Rosalind, Pauline.
Parthenia, Juliet and Viola.

Bessie Fairbairn has played leading roles
in one of Bennett and Mculton’'s opera companies for
t vo seasons without losing a single performance. She
will take a much-needed rest after June 1, from which
date she will be at liberty.

The many friends of Harry Sanford, the
handsome yuung business manager for Maggie Mitch-
ell, will regret to learn that heis lying at the Sherman
House, Chicago, seriously ill with congestion of the
brain. The doctors, however, give hopes of his re-
covery. .

T. W. Keene attended the first production
of **Tom, Dick and Harry”’ at the Lee Avenue Acad-
emy of Music, Brooklyn, last week. He occupied a
box with his wife and private triends, and was one of
those who applauded the Salsbury Troubadors the
most heartily.

A MYSTERIOUS KILLING.

Kellogg Nichols, a Trusted Messenger of the United
States Express Company Dies at His Post of Duty.

{Subject of Illustration. ]

When the train on the Chicago, Rock [Island and
Pacific railway, which left Cnicago, at 11 0’clock Fri-
day night, arrived at Morris at 1:30 A. M., Saturday,
it was discovered tbat the express-messénger in the
employ of the United States Express Company bad
been murdered and that the murderers bad made
their escape with $21,000 in money besides a large
amount of jewelry, the value of which cannot be ex-
actly stated.

Morris is a station about 16 miles from Joliet. The
train consisted of, in addition to the regular passenger
coaches, two baggage-cars, which were used by the
United States Express Company. The first car was
in charge of Kellogg Nichols, the regular messenger
of the express company, and the second in charge of
William Watts; a baggage master in the employ ot
the railroad company. ‘The train left Joliet on time
It stopped
for coa) a few miles outside of the city, and then pro-
ceeded on its way. Hardly bad it got under tul! bead-
way when Mr. Watts heard some one rapping at the
door of the torward end of the car. Supposing it to be
the express messenger be unlocked the door, when
four masked men, three of whom held revolvers in
their hands, sprang into the car. The fourth one was
armed with an ax, which he-held with both hands,
thrown across his right shoulder. They demanded
the key to the safe, and were told Nichols. had it.
They left Watts under cover ot a revolver held
through a skylight by one of their number, and went
to Nichols’ car. They killed him, secured his key.
and returned to the baggage car and rifled the sate.
They then left thetrain as itslowly approached Morris

The conductor an* local express agent rushed to the
car and found it in tbe condition described by Watts.
The floor ot the car was littered with papers and
books, the doors of the safe stood wide open and
everything about the place was in the greatest disor-
der. Thetwo men then hurried to the other baggage
car, which they quickly opened. A borrible sight met
their zaze. The dead budy of Messenger Nichols lay
in the forward end of the car, while everything avout
gave evidence that the unfortunate man had only
given up his life and the property intrusted to him
after the fiercest of struggles. There was no one to
tell the story of the crime, and as the conductor swung
his lantern about he shuddered at the terrible spec-
tacle be beheld. Blood was everywhere, all over the
car, on the chair and trunks, many of which were
thrown out of their places. Tbe way bills were scat-
tered about, also covered with blood. Conductor
Wagner, after his hasty glance about the car, Kuelt
beside the body of Nichols,and quickly satisfied him-
self that life was extinct. The body was removed to
the waiting-room at the station, and the coroner noti-
fied as soon as possible. Aftera short delay the train

“continued on its journey to Davenport, Watts being

left behind to assist 1n the investigation.

When daylight arrived an examioation was made ol
the body, which disclosed the terrible wounds the man
had received. He bad, indced,sold his life dearly.
Three bullet wounds were found, one passing from the
right neck through, coming out near the ear on the
left side. A second bullet strvck him near the right
collar bone, and came out on the lest side uf the
breast, while a third passed through bis lett arm. He
had evidently defended himself witb his right arm
by raising it to shield himself from the blows that
were aimed at bis bead, for tbe right hand was cut and
bruised, while the wrist was broken. The‘ wound.
however, that caused the messenger’s death was dealt
with an ax, which caused a cut five inches in length,
extending from the ear to the top of the bead. The
sharp edge of the ax had penetrated deep into the
head, laying the brain open and covering ‘the hair
with blood. {n addition there were twenty-six cuts 0p
the face and head, some of which were delivered witb
the ax and some with the butt end ot the revolvers.
The men were evidently afraid to fire, except-as a last
resort, lest the noise might be heard oatsidé the car.
The fight must have lasted fitteén minutes at least,
the messenger defendizg bimself as best Ee covid.

At Srst ke bad no weapon, but drdinog that irwas to
to be a struggle to the death he managed to jump to
the side of the car and seize a large poker which was
hanging there. This he used witb good effect for 2
time, injuring at least two ot his antagonists. ; With
three bulletsin his body and witb one wrist broken
he still fought for his life and the property’ ot his
charge, and only gave up when the deadly blow was.
dealt him with the ax, which laid him low. Tbey
had fought from one end of the car to the other, and
the only wonder 1s that the messenger tougbt so lone

| against such terrinle odds. The lamp in the car had

been extinguished, so that the battle ended in @ark-
ness,and when the conductor entered at Morris be
found the poker covered with blood hanging in !ts
place on the nail. While one of the robbers wa-
searching the dead man’s pocket for the key 4o the
safe anather must have taken the poker and bung It
up. Inthe dead man’s right hand was clutched a tuft
of hair, pulled trom the head of bis assailants. Tbe
hair is straight, about three inchesin length and of a
This was taken by the coroner an¢

turned over to the detectives as a valuable and the
| only elue to the perpetrators of the outrage,

APRIL 3, ics.) *

THE NATIONAL POLICE GAZETTE: NEW YORK. 3

THIS WICKED WORLD.
A Few Samples of Man’s Duplicity and

Woman’s Worse than
Weakness.

The Graham Murder.

We have already published the full details of this
horrible wife murder, some two weeks ago, with sev-
eral striking illustrations, which occurred near Brook-
line, Mo. At the head of this column will be found
the portrait of Cora Lee, the second wife of Graham,
who married him, it ts alleged, knowing him to have
a wife living. On another page will be found the por-
traits of Grabam, his murdered wife Sarah.and Mrs,
Molloy.tbe great temperance advocate, who adopted
Cora Lee as ber daughter. Both these women are
charged by Graham as being accessories to the crime.
Considerable credit 1s due Detective Ed. C. Davis for
the masterly manner in which he has solved this
damnable mystery. His portrait is also printed in
this issue.

The Harrisburg Soldiers’ Orphan Asylum.

Liule James Ginley, son of the late Capt. James
Ginley, once the well-known commander ot the Pitt-
ston McClellan Rifles, is the “Oliver Twist” of the
Mount Joy Soldiers’ Orphans’ School, out of which
recent investigation has brought so many revolting
facts.

Jimmy isa bright little fellow of perbaps thirteen
vears of age, with a dash of independence and courage
about him, and many traits of character that strongly
remind one of his gallant tather. He entered the Mt.
Joy school on the 24th of September last, and he
knows that ricketty old barrack from cellar to garret
with tts dirt and misery and suffering. He wore a
neat suit of the regulation kind, which was given to
him just previous to his departure, and a welcome
substitution, be says, for the patched up parapher-
nalia which was given him upon his arrival, and
which was never changed until he was coming away.
His eyes are much inflamed and weak, and are now
under the care of Dr. Taylor, who Says that they were

Where their food came from.

fast becoming incurable, but that he is yet able to
effect a cure. ‘

“Well, Jimmy, how did they treat you down at Mt.
Joy?” queried the reporter.

“Oh, they used me about as they did the rest of
them,” the little fellow replied, “and you may be sure
that that was not very good.”

He was asked to relate, as nearly as possible, his
experience, and be told then some very sad particu
lars of the way the syndicate ghouls grow rich on the
money of the people. ‘I will show you our bill of
fare,” he said, and producing a note book he read off a
monotonous menu for the different banquets of theweek
in which “snitz” (boy for dried apples). stewed prunes
and ginger snaps played a conspicuous part. “They
just gave a felluw enough butter to make bim feel how
nice it would be if he could just get hold of the quan-
tty that he could taste,” said Jimmy, ‘and al! this in
full view of the teacber’s table, which was loaded with
the best. We never got any milk or sugar to our
coffee, except once when the inspectors came and

then you couldn’t hardly notice it. Then everything

Was cooked 1n snch a filthy way that it used to make |

me sick. They used to pick up dirty old pieces of
bread trom the floor, toast them, and make us eat
them. Rice was the muinstay of the establishment,
and we had rice, rice, rice, until eversbody got tired.

Then they'd putin a raisin and a currant or two for a

‘draw,’

“Everybody had to wash their own clothes, and if
they didn’t do so they were allowed to wear them
until they were awfully tilthy. After I bad worn my
underclothes until they were soiled I put them away
and went without them. On tbe floor above me slept

Everybody his own laundress.

the very little boys. There was. always such a dis-
gusting smell from that room, forthechi.dren were not
old enough to Keep their persons clean, and then they
were compelled to take their bed-clothes outside the
building on cold days and wash them with their own
hands. You would pity the poor little things.

“There is but one bath room in the building, and
thal tsasmall one. The smalier boys bathed in the

Wf ‘y

SERA Wee tt | "
A. Dee

The molasses barrel tub.

wash room tn three tubs made from molasses barrels
sawed in two. We used to bathe in these tubs one

| after the other, in the same water,and there were

three towel: tor 186 boys. The boys who had the itch.
tetter and other diseases used the same towel as the
others. I used to dry myself with the inside lining of
my coat. Some boys had
dreadful sores on their
legs and their bodies were
covered with boils. None
of these boys were excused
from attending the daily
school] sessions unless
they were unable to be
about. “Greasy” Hinkle
was in charge of the sick
room, and was the doctor
and the druggist com-
bined. His medicine was
a pot of mixed up sulphur
aud he dosed his patients
as he pleased. If you
sprained your foot you got
sulphur. It was the cure-all. Two weeks before the
committee came to investigate we were all told that
any boy whocaught the itch would be whipped, and
those who ha. already caught it, and were not better
by that time, would also be whipped.

“Old Mrs. McFadden, the cook, was very cross. I
was told to build a fire for her one day, and she intro-
duced me to her department by giving me a sound
thrashiug with a board. She once threw a butcher
knife at Harry Hause, and came near pinning bim to
the wall.” ©

‘Were your beds comfortable?” was asked.

*“Yes, I was well enuugh off, but the fellows up in
the garret had it pretty rough. A number of the win-
dow lights were broken, and during some of the
heavy snow storms their beds were covered with
snow when they awoke in the morning.”’

The reporter asked young Ginley if it did not require
some courage to complain to the governor and the
other gentlemen of the Investigating Committee.

“Yes, it -dtd,” he replied, “but the boys all said
somebody ought to speak, and they all thought I was
the best one to do 't. So, when they were about going
away Itold Mr. Norris what I knew, and then some
other boys also told him about the state of affairs.
Tbe committee then brought us before them; Mr.
Cassidy (the Attorney General) said one boy was so
bad withscrofula that he would lose the use of his
limbs. The teachers woulin’t let us complain 10 our

The sulphur fiend.

| letters home, and they often read the letters betore
the whole school and made fun of them.”

Young Giniey will leave for Harford soon, where be
hopes to receive better treatment.

They get good board.

quiet, mild-mannered Jady, bas been quite unnerved
by these developments, and has been put to consider-
ble expense, which she is but ill able to bear. She is
justly proud of her courageous little offspring, who, it
is evident, needs only halt a chance toone day make
his mark in the world and become a credit and help
to the one who 1s most anxious about him.

SCHARF’S LUCK.

The Fortunate Shoemaker Deluged
Letters.

with Love

Many Ladies Willing to Marry the Man who Won a
$15.000 Lottery Prize—He Invests His Money in Real
Estate and is Threatened with a Suit.

Mr. Frederick Scbart, the bachelor shoemaker and
mender of DeKalb avecue, near Marcy avenue, who
recently won $15,000 in The Louisiana Siate Lottery,
bas just made an investment in real estate. He has
acquired title to the two new three-story brick houses
at Lexington and Throop avenues. There is a store
in tbe corner house, and it is understood that the
lucky shoemaker will open in business there. The
amount which he paid for the property was $15,650, a
mortgage ot $4,500 being given.